Vol. IX FEBRUARY, 1922 FEBRUARY - Valentine and Harlequin— A happy pair are they; With saucy mirth and loving gifts They make a bleak world gay, Dancing away the cloudy mist, Bathing the world in amethyst, Waking the blossoms under the saow With a promise of April and May. Annie Wells Cannon Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—l5e Single "d | p Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, (\ D Salt Lake City, Utah! Ci ¥, ' a (Ew A rT L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS "oly" | Gompie Brand The Sign of Comfort GARMENTS If your leading dealer does not have the garmcuts you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Price 1 Special Summer weight........$1.25 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauee 1.75 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached... 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 200 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2:50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75 305 Australian wool, It. Wt........ 6.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 1922 Pure Glove Silk.................----12.00 We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store Music Magnetizes theHome The Columbia Grafonola BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices is the only phonograph Prompt attention given all out of town orders ~ 5100.00 For this Beauty TEMPE SUITS MADE Take 15 Months to Pay TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 | POSER SDA) a. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH Style 70 Main St. Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Price Style Salt Lake City ve automa atop. If not, write or call on ' Have you a ring or pin with the Birthstone for January? W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. I No. 111 Light weight, cotton............... 150 110 Medium wool, mixed... 3.00 120 Light weight, bleached.......... 1.75 116 Heavy wool, mixed... 4.00 be a. Weight, ae 375 117 Snow White Silkaline..._._. 3.40 190 Heavy weight, cotton-.......... 2.25 MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. "Reliable Agents Wanted" Salt Lake City, Utah UE Choose the Books Your Children Read Good juvenile books are as fundamental to the right mental growth of boys and girls as is good food to their physical up-building. Surround them with cheerful and wholesome volumes and help them acquire the reading habit. We have specialists who will gladly aid you in the selection of good books for children. And we do have the books! Either call in person or write for free illustrated ju- ~ venile catalogs. Deseret Book Company 44 E. So. Temple 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached) -.....---.. Snvosesseee--- eatum weight, bleached... 2) 124 Heavy weight, bleached..........$2.50 $140 150 Extra white Meres....... 3.00 118 All Merino Wool..................... 5.50 The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS FEBRUARY, 1922 

Page

President Charles W. Penrose Frontispiece
Aunt Em's Birthday Ruth May Fox 61
President Charles W. Penrose Susa Young Gates 63
Views of Jerusalem Charles W. Penrose 69
Who is my Loved One? Kate Thomas 72
Gambling for the Glory of God Milton Bennion 73
Maternity Bill Passed 74
William Fowler 75
A Prayer of Gratitude Matilda K. Galloway 76
Bubbles and Troubles Ruth Moench Bell 77
The Tate Family Margueritte Cregar Lund 84
World's Destiny in Hands of U. S. 87
Suggestive Program Lucy May Green 90
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 95
The General Procession James H. Anderson 101
Editorial: Jealousy 106
Guide Lessons 109

ADVERTISEMENT

The Character Builder for 1922

In 1922 The Character Builder will enter upon its 21st year under the present editorial and business management. Its articles on CHILD WELFARE, VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE AND HUMAN CONSERVATION in 1922 will be the best that have ever been published. Every Latter-day Saint should read them. Every home needs The Character Builder; it has now been published in Salt Lake City for twenty years. It is only $1 a year. Send $1 for 1922 to Dr. John T. Miller, editor, 625 South Hope St., Los Angeles, California. (If you will send $2.50 for Dr. Miller's new book on HUMAN CONSERVATION before Jan. 1, 1922, the Character Builder will be sent you a year free.)

Aunt Em's Birthday Ruth May Fox The season is the same as of yore, People passing to and fro as before; But a radiating essence, An ethereal, gentle presence Has vanished through the door. We can not open it, only those Whose eyes are dimmed, whose bodies seek repose From a world of tribulation, May receive this consolation, Or follow where she goes. ' Yestereen I thought I heard a footfall Faint and slow, approaching through the hall; And TI looked for her appearing, But alas! She was not nearing, Nor did she heed my call. Her day of days, how we all missed her! The music, flowers, the throng that pressed hel With affection's salutation, As they drank pure inspiration From this gifted leader. Seasons go, seasons come as before, But the one we loved so long comes no more; _ She has found full compensation In His smiles and approbation; Peace and Love forever more. PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE BORN FEB. 4, 1832 THE Relief Society Magazine Vol IX FEBRUARY, 1922 No. 2 President Charles W. Penrose Susa Young Gates On the 4th. Of February 1922, the thought of this people will be turned in love and reverence to the poet-preacherpublicist who reaches then his ninetieth year milestone. Few men have lived so long, fewer still have lived so righteously and so well; while perhaps none have combined in themselves so many forces for good, filled so many responsible positions, walked in so many paths of usefulness. And distinction as has Charles W. Penrose. Other writers in the public press, at this time, will no doubt speak of him as author, orator, preacher of righteousness, editor, poet and president. This article, however, aims to deal with one side only of his many-sided career. In a large sense, he has been a constant and consistent friend of woman and women in this Church and in the world at large. It is of this that we would speak. He was an editor, when the effort, brief as it was, was on for the passage of the bill for equa! Suffrage in the Legislature of 1870. His trenchant pen accelerated the speed with which the movement was inaugurated and carried through, while he afterwards glorified the triumphant results for the women of Utah by word and pen. Perhaps his most signal contribution to the welfare of Utah women, however, was focussed in his bill, while a member of the Legislature of 1880 and a member of the Judiciary Committee, for removing the political disabilities of women. The territorial bill giving women the voting privilege in 1870, did not carry the right to hold office, as the following extracts will show. He it was who assisted in the drafting of the resolutions sent in by Eliza R. Snow, Sarah M. Kimball and Emmeline B. Wells; while his bill followed the women's appeal which he read prior to presenting his own bill. The following extract is taken from the Woman's Exponent, January 15, 1880: "Hon. C, W. Penrose presented a petition signed by Eliza R. Snow, 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline. B. Wells and fourteen others praying for the removal of the political disabilities of the women of Utah. To the Honorable Council and House of Representatives of. The Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah: Gentlemen—We, your petitioners, residents of Utah Territory, representing the great majority of the women, respectfully ask your Honorable Body to remove the political disabilities of the women citizens of this Territory. Whereas, For the past nine years the women of Utah have enjoyed and exercised the right of suffrage and through practical use of the elective franchise have become somewhat familiar with the needs and operations of government, and have not abused the trust reposed in them by the act of the Legislative Assembly of 1870, which conferred upon them the right of the ballot, and Whereas, In consequence of the continuance of the word "male" in those statutes which define the qualifications of citizens for holding office, women citizens are ineligible to hold office, and entirely debarred from occupying any official position whatever, however capable cr well qualified they may be, or however desirous the people may become to open the way for women to offices that they might fill with honor to themselves, and profit to the Territory; We therefore pray your Honorable Body to pass some enactment which will remove the obstacle that now prevents the political freedom of the women of this Territory. Your early attention, as wise legislators, to this matter which is of great importance to us, and to those whom we have the honor to tepresent, is carey requested, and as in duty bound Your petitioners will ever pray, etc. Signed in behalf of the WomMeEN oF UTAH Salt Lake City, Jan. 10,1880. Referred to the committee on Petitions and Memorials. The following Bill was presented by Mr. Penrose; read the first time and referred to the committee on Petitions and Memorials; A BILL REMOVING THE POLITICAL DISSABILITIES OF THE WOMEN OF UTAH Sec. 1—Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah: That section 40 of the Compiled Laws of Utah is hereby amended by striking out the word "male," in the seventh line of said section. Sec. 2,—Section 1073 of said Compiled Laws is hereby amended by striking out the word "male" in. The third line of said section. Sec. 3—All laws or parts of laws which disqualify any citizen from holding office on account of sex are hereby repealed. In the debate which followed in the House, Mr. Penrose made a telling and brilliant speech in favor of the bill, and we append it here: "Utah is the home of liberty for all, and peculiarly the sanctuary for woman. Here all her rights are popularly acknowledged and accorded; here she is protected and defended; here the conventionalities PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 65 which have kept her in bondage for. Ages are thrown aside by the force of an enlightened estimate of her capabilities, and an enlarged view of her claims as an integral part of the body politic. The right to vote has already been conferred upon her. The laws ef the nation declare her a citizen equally with man; the laws of this Territory give her equal rights with man at the polls. This has worked no injury to any, but will necessarily result in good. For the power of the suffrage will develop thought, 'and its responsibilities give occasion for reflection and enlarged capacities of woman which will be the natural consequence, will be transmitted to her offspring, and benefits will thus accrue to the State in the coming generation. None of the disasters predicted by the opponents of woman suffrage have occurred in this Territory. The women have exercised their power in wisdom, and have shown their fitness for the trust reposed in them. They have not been degraded or polluted by dabbling in the waters of politics, and are just as good wives, mothers, sisters, cousins and aunts as before receiving the elective franchise. Recently they have had some voice in our caucuses and conventions and nominating committees; and who can say, truthfully, that this has been in any way inimical to the community. Giving them the right to vote without the right to a voice in the arrangement of a ticket or platform on which to vote would be partial and inconsistent. Having done so much for woman's cause, why halt in timid hesitation before the last barrier to her political freedom. The word "male" in our statutes defining the qualifications of citizens for holding office, is a relic of the old system of woman's vasselage. It is a standing reflection upon her sex. It is a plain assertion of her inferiority. It says virtually, "No matter how wise, intellectual, honest, thrifty, able and gifted a woman may be, she is not fit to be entrusted with the responsibilities of the smallest office in the gift of the people." Tf this is not its meaning, then it is a selfish declaration that all the honors and emoluments of every office shall be preserved to the stronger sex, because man has the power to elbow woman out in the cold and keep her there. There are some offices for which women are not adapted. But are there not also some offices for which many men are not adapted? Yet no man, however inefficient, is debarred by statutory provisions from such positions. But woman is shut out from all, and this purely and solely because she is woman. It is not asked that certain offices be set apart for either sex. We are simply requested to remove this ugly and staring brand of woman's political inferiority from our statute book: to render it possible for women to fill such offices as they may be fitted' to occupy with honor to themselves and profit to the people. The good sense of the great body of electors of both sexes must determine what those offices may be, and, as in the case of men, which persons are the most competent to fill them. The bill will not secure a single office to a single woman—or a married one either. But it will break down in Utah a wall which is in the way of the march of progress, and every stone and brick of which will yet be entirely removed in every nation that is really civilized. Massachusetts and other States have commenced the work. Women there cannot only vote on school matters, but hold official positions on school boards and other state educational organizations. They have the same privilege in Kansas. In Utah, where the elevation of woman as man's companion, not his slave, is the prevailing social theory, she cannot, under the law, hold any office of any kind whatever. Cache county would have elected a lady to the office of County 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Superintendent of Schools, one who had proven to the people her ample qualifications for the post, but the law forbade it. Salt Lake county contemplated nominating a talented lady for the office of County Treasurer, but the disability which this bill seeks to remove stood grimly in the way. _Now, I do not cite these as example offices to which women should be elected, but merely refer to these facts in illustration of the subject, and to show reasons why the discriminating and egotistical word "male" shoutd be expunged from the statutes relating to qualifications for office. Used in this connection, it is a slur on our wives and sisters and mothers. It is a vestige of the barbaric estimate of the gentler sex. Away with it. Blot it out with the. Pen of a progressive age and the ink of advanced ideas. Let it go with its companion that once stood in the way of woman suffrage, but was swept into the limbo of antiquated measures, by the besom of the act of 1870. Give-to the women of Utah—full, perfect and complete political liberty!"—Deseret News, Jan. 15, 1880. President Penrose's liberal attitude on this question did not meet with the ready response in the Legislature which it deserved, for there were men who confused the right to hold office with the necessity of doing so. That a woman should have her right of choice as to whether she ran for office or not did not appeal to some of the conservative minds of the Legislature, Elder Penrose's attacks on the citadel of the conservative-defense-ramparts with his rapierthrusts of wit, and his broadside of shots and shells of logic and reason almost created a riot. Practically alone he carried the siege and witnessed the crumbling of the walls with characteristic delight, willingly throwing down his arms when the foes of progress were defeated, striking hands with his one-time opponents, happy only in the success of his arms and of the right. He was a member of the next two Constitutional Conventions, held April, 1887, and June, 1894. When Congress decided to deprive polygamists of their right of franchise, both men and women, President Penrose by pen still championed equal suffrage whenever opportunity offered to advance the cause of women and womanhood. The passage of the first Edmunds law was effected in Congress in 1882. All the Utah women had exercised their free right ef franchise for twelve years unmolested. Then, in 1882. Came the disfranchisement of polygamists. Again in 1886 came the passage of the Edmunds-Tucker bill which disfranchised all the women of the territory by Congressional enactment. With the acceptance of the manifesto issued by President Wilford Woodruff, in 1891, amnesty was granted to living polygamists. Male polygamists were then permitted to vote, but the franchise was not at that time restored to women. The agitation for Statehood was renewed, fostered and focussed by such men as Honorable Charles W. Penrose, who in ' PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 67 company with Honorable Franklin S. Richards, spent two winters in Washington, D. C. He visited every Senator and Representative and member of Congress with the. President's cabinet on the subject of Statehood, including the equal suffrage clause. The women themselves were not asleep at their posts. Led by the stirring appeals and efforts of Zina D. H. Young. Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells and Emily S. Richards, M. Isabella Horne, Elmina S. Taylor, they projected a series of mass meetings and they traveled up and down the state from one end to the other for over a year—1894-1895, inquiring into the records of all possible candidates for the Constitutional Convention which was to convene in 1895. President Penrose was an active ally in all this agitation. At a convention held of the Utah Women Suffrage Association, Oct. 5, 1893, President, Penrose electrified the convention with his stirring and inspired address. The following brief extract is copied from the Woman's Exponent of January, 1894: _(Items from Hon. C. W. Penrose's address at the Convention of the Utah W. S. A. Held in Salt Lake City, Oct. 5, 1893.) "Hon. C. W. Penrose's address at W. S. Convention. The speaker dwelt upon necessity of organization, upon faith in the cause and confidence that it would succeed. He urged that the work of converting the indifferent and skeptical, and inspiring the lukewarm should go on, and said there is nothing new to offer in the way of argument, but advocates of the cause should study the objections of those opposed to the franchise and be able to answer - them. There are no arguments against Woman Suffrage, only objections which can be answered. From that time onward President Penrose lent his efforts liberally to the cause of equal suffrage which he maintained should and must be included in any state constitution where "Mormon" voters predominate. Moreover, he stressed the necessity of making the bill so broad that there should be no political disabilities for women when they and the state should finally triumph. No man was happier than he when statehood was achieved including an equal suffrage clause, although not a member of the Constitutional Convention held March 18, 1895, nor of the Legislature held during the winter of 1896, which drafted the clause giving women their full place side by side with their brothers politically. When the Statehood bill was signed by the President of the United States on April 6, 1896, Editor Penrose was one of the men who openly and secretly rejoiced in the final triumph of right. The story of President Penrose's life would be incomplete, 68 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for. Women at least, unless there was told something of his extreme gentleness to the women of his household and everywhere. His courtly consideration of his family is excelled only by a genuineness of sympathy which covers mortal weakness with a robe of patient love. We have been studying something concerning the poetry written by President Penrose, some of which has entered into the very life-blood of the people of this Church, stimulating ambition, thwarting evil and inciting courage in the souls of those who have listened—by campfire, on the mountain top, at the fireside or in the gilded palaces where some of our great singers have carried his singing messages to the peuples of the world: His hymn "O ye mountains high," is the very soul and essence of the spirit of unconquerable faith and loyalty which animates this people. It is proper here to insert a correction concerning a mistake made in one of our recent numbers of the Magazine, as it is a matter of historical accuracy: Says President Penrose: It has been called to my attention, that a recent lesson in the Relief Society Magazine credits the poem and song written by me, "Up! Awake, ye defenders of Zion,' as the one which was sung by Brother Dunbar when President Young asked him to sing "Zion," before the United States Commissioners, in 1857, at the famous meeting in the old Council House. To the best of my knowledge, this is incorrect. "O, ye mountains high," was the song which was called, "Zion," and which was sung by Brother Dunbar; "Up! Awake ye defenders of Zion," was written about that time, but was not sung in Utah until a later date. Others of his hymns are no less famous and beloved; but it is as a writer of doctrinal tracts and vivid editorials that he is most endeared to the women converts of this Church, by the thousands, as well as to the young women who desire to learn the "why" and the "how" of gospel truths. For all of these things we are the debtors of President Charles W. Penrose and we lay this little tribute upon the altar of his understanding heart knowing how inadequate is our portrayal and how complete is his merit. May he yet live many years to bless and inspire the women of this people and of the world. Without suggestion from principals or teachers, the students of Oak Park high school, Chicago, have formed an organization prohibiting smoking by any student within two blocks of the school grounds. When young America once learns the truth about tobacco, there will be "weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth" in the tobacco camp. ~ Views of Jerusalem By Charles W. Penrose, Ye scattered descendants of Judah's seed, Who cling to the rags of a' time-worn creed, Your history's pages are marked with woe, And you wear the scar of Jehovah's blow. Dispersed from the land of your ancient pride, Where the Prophets lived and your fathers died, In every nation your forms appear, And "Jew" as a word of reproach we hear. The Moslem rules in the land of the vine; Where the Temple stood he has built his shrine. Briars grow now in the olive tree's stead, And over the country a gloom is spread. Once flowing with honey and milk and wine, And blest with the beams of a light divine, The soil of the cedars, which Seers have trod, Is withering under the curse of God. But we'll leave the past and the present too, And try of the future to catch a view: By the power of faith and the Spirit's aid, We must rend the vail and disperse the shade; For misty and curtained the future lies, And hid from the glances of mortal eyes. See! The splendor of heaven is coming down! For the shadows melt and the gloom has flown. Through the parting veil there's a pleasing sight: Bathed in the waves of the sun's warm light, A beautiful city I now behold, Shining with treasures of silver and gold: In the clean, broad streets there's a merry throng; There's the hum of trade and the cheerful song; In the market-places the merchants stand, Vast riches are passing from hand to hand, There are cattle and sheep, and fruits and oil, And garners of wheat from a yielding soil; There's the humble cottage, the business mart, And mansions adorned with the sculptor's art; _ And a mighty structure is being reared, Where the Great Eternal may be revered. The city is built on an eminence; The country arourid may be seen from thence; There's a verdant bloom on each field and tree, And the landscape smiles with fertility; There are tears of joy on the hills around, And the streamlets water the thankful ground. Ah! The scene is fading! Alas, 'tis fled! But a gleam of light on my mind is shed: The city I saw was Jerusalem; The people were branches of Judah's stem. Hark! A "still small voice" with a piercing sound Commands me to look on the scene around: Again do the shadows dissolve away, 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Like the gloom. Of night from the king of day. But oh! How changed is the city now! Distress is depicted on ev'ry brow: The people are hurrying to and fro, And gazing with fright on the vales below. "Great God! What a host is around the place, To plunder and slaughter the Jewish race! With yells of triumph they come like a flood, Bedabbled and smeared with their victims' blood; And the sword-gleams flash in the lurid light From the houses fired in the dreadful fight. Hark! What a din! There's the cannon's peal, Mingled with curses, the flashing of steel, Shrieks from the wounded, and cries of despair— Music to Satan, and Death plays the air. Alas for the maidens of Judah now! For mercy shines not on the foeman's brow: Their tears he will mock, and laugh at their cry; No succor is near—no pathway to fly. Proud dwellings are rifled and battered down; Their treasures in heaps in the streets are thrown, And the conquered Jews in their anguish pray That the wrath of God might be turned away. In the Temple's courts are the Priesthood bowed, And around its walls there's a wailing crowd, And many are gazing with tearful eye Where two, who appear to be sleeping, lie. "Alas! For the Prophets are dead," they say; "They bid us prepare for the evil day: At length it has dawned with a thousand woes: Who shall deliver us now from our foes? O God of our fathers, we turn to thee! We sink in the waves of a stormy sea: Engulfed in the floods of a bloody strife, Jerusalem struggles, O God, for life! For Abraham's sake, whom thou called'st thy friend, Bid mercy step forth and its arm extend." And the cries of the people rend the air, As they beat their breasts and their garments tear. Ah! Surely their prayer has been heard on high, For the lightnings gleam in the cloudy sky, The thunder-peals burst with a vengeful sound, The mountains are trembling, the hills rebound, And the host has fall'n on the heaving sward, Blasted to death by a bolt from the Lord. The army is seized with a sudden fright; They shudder and quake at the awful sight: Some flee from the place where their comrades fell, But the earth gapes wide, and they sink to hell! With an awful crash do the buildings fall, Cov'ring the dead like a funeral pall, Entombing the living, a shrieking host; Blaspheming heaven, they yield up the ghost. The remnant still left of the Gentile crowd, In wildest confusion, with curses loud, Fighting each other o'er heaps of the slain, - And trying to flee, but they try in vain. VIEWS OF JERUSALEM But the rescued Jews, in their gladness raise To the great Jehovah a song of praise. And oh! What a sight for a-mortal eye! The forms of the Prophets no longer lie, And a light breaks forth from the murky skies, And the Prophets to endless life arise! And a mountain eastward is cleft in twain, While over its top is a shining train; From the heavens they come with their blades of fire, To punish the wicked with judgments dire. In the front is one with a God-like brow, Serenely majestic, white as the snow. His glances shoot forth like the lightning's gleam, And his bright hair waves like a rippling stream; His presence is mighty, subduing all, For the sons of Judah in worship fall; The Prophets approach with humility, And the Gentiles shake like an aspen tree. Jerusalem now is redeemed from woe; Destruction has come on the cruel foe; And the cry is raised, with united voice, "The Messiah has come! Rejoice! Rejoice!" And the Mighty One in the midst descends, Hails them as kindred, and calls them his friends; And they gaze with awe, as they bend the knee, For scars in the palms of his hands they see., "Oh, what are these wounds in thine hands?" they cry: They wait with forebodings for his reply. "Your fathers inflicted these wounds on me; They slew me, their Savior, at Calvary: Descended from Judah, of David's seed, I came to mine own, as the Lord decreed; I came to redeem them from sin and death: I am Jesus the Christ, of Nazareth!" _ And his rich voice rolls with its music waves, Like the ocean billows in rocky caves: From every eye do the tear-drops start, While they still rejoice; for in every heart Are mingled emotions of joy and pain, As the sunbeams shine on the falling rain, The rainbow of hope glows bright in each soul; He smiles, and away do their grief-clouds roll. "O ye sons of Judah," he says, "attend! Your troubles have come to a speedy end: Be obedient now; they'll return no more. Your fathers were stubborn in days of yore: i For their sins they were scattered through the earth; They brought a curse on the land of their birth, Entailed on their children distress and shame, And lasting reproach on their ancient name. Let the warning of the fast be heard And your future shaped by Jehovah's word, That his righteous laws you may understand, My servants shall come from a distant land, With power to seal, and bearing the keys To open salvation's deep mysteries. The blessings they seal on your heads shall be 71 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Enjoyed by your latest posterity. To the spirit-land, where your fathers mourn O'er their days of sin, shall the news be borne, That their graves shall burst and their souls be freed, Through the work performed by their righteous seed. Here and in Zion's fair city I'll dwell, And reign over Judah and Israel. Here the wealth of the nations left shall flow, As the streams of earth to the ocean go; And your tide of glory shall backward roll To lighten. The Gentiles from pole to pole!" As the vision fades from before my eyes, I hear the hosannas to God arise; And a whisper as soft as the zephyr's sigh, Thrills my soul with the words—"The time is nigh." From the Millennial Star. Who is My Loved One? Kate Thomas Who is my loved one, my loved one, My dearest adored, my approved one? Who is that coming down the leafy way With a man's stride and bold, courageous bearing? He waves his hand and halloes, and I run to give him hearing. Who is my loved one, my loved one, My dearest adored, my approved one? Who is my loved one, my loved one, Who is that tugging at my skirt With a sure hold and wee, unfortunate fingers? Her eyes are pleading and her smile marks where a sob half lingers. Who is my loved one, my loved one, My dearest adored, my approved one? Who is my loved one, my loved one, My dearest adored, my approved one? Who is that sitting in the well-worn chair? His hair is silver as the silver sage is, Who is my loved one, my loved one, My dearest adored, my approved one? Who is my loved one, my loved one, My dearest adored, my approved one? Which could be first of all that have full share? Jesus, be kind to hearts of emptiness, Anchor their loneness, comfort their distress, And bless anew my loved ones, my loved ones, - My dearest adored, my approved ones. Gambling for the Glory of God Shall We Do Evil that Good May Come? Milton Bennion A hundred years ago it was customary to establish a lottery as a means of raising money to build a church. The appeal to the naturai human propensity to gamble was so effective that lotteries became generally established as a very attractive means of private gain on the part of their promoters and wholesale loss on the part of their patrons. The Congress of the United States recognized this evil by passing a bill forbidding the use of the mails in the conduct of lotteries. Laws and ordinances have also been passed by states and municipalities making the lottery or other gambling device a misdemeanor. The modern raffle, and other methods of drawing lucky numbers, and making lucky guesses are only variations of the lottery. Each and all appeal directly to the gambling element—a native tendency that it is the business of civilized society, and especially of the Church, to overcome: Notwithstanding the law and the disapproval of fhe general authorities of the Church, it still happens in some local churches that some sort of gambling is fostered as a means of more readily raising money for Church work. This, of course, means that appeal is made to an immoral tendency in human nature as a means of raising money to help these same people, and others, to be more godly! It is almost self-evident that there can be no sound social and moral life erected upon the basis of the gain of one at the expense of another. Material rewards cannot properly be sought, except upon the basis of industry applied in real service.. Gambling activity produces nothing. On the contrary, the effect of indulgence in this form of amusement is to destroy the finer sense of moral discrimination, to cultivate selfishness, idleness, ignorance, and thoughtlessness. These are the sources of moral degeneracy, the direct opposite of the qualities that make for character—sympathy, industry, intelligence, and thoughtfulness. In this connection the State is not blameless. For years it has been customary to attract crowds to the State Fair by selling concessions to carnival companies whose chief business it is to extract money from everybody's pockets through appeal to the gambling instinct. While the state is paying millions for the proper training of children and youths for 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE good citizenship, for the sake of a few thousand dollars in State Fair revenue, it deliberately provides these same children and youths with most corrupting forms of amusement. Can any organization afford to foster an evil in the etfort to secure a good? If so, might not the sale of moonshine liquor be a ready means of raising cash to build up the Church, or to carry on the educational work of the state? Maternity Bill Passed Women throughout the country are rejoicing over the passage of the Shepherd-Tanner bill, known also as the "Maternity Bill." This bill to promote the welfare and hygene of maternity and infancy passed the Senate on July 22, 1921, with only seven dissenting votes. It passed the House on November 22, by a vote of 279 to 39, and 'was signed by President Harding the day before Thanksgiving. It is said that the passage of the bill was mainly due to the women of the United States, who worked vigorously in its interest. The bill provides for two classes of appropriations: The first consists of a million dollars to be apportioned among the states according to population, but with the provision that no state is to receive less than $5,000 of this amount annually. The individual states must match the amount received. Until amended by the House, this amount was to have been distributed pro rata among the states according to population. The amendment thus penalizes the large states. The second apropriation provides for the distribution of $480,000 equally among the states the first year, which will be $10,000 for each state; and $240,000 thereafter for five years, which will be $5,000 a year for each state. Both of these apropriations are to be effective for five years after the first fiscal year. The bill provides for the creating of a board of maternity and infant hygiene consisting of the chief of the children's bureau. The surgeon-general of the United States Public Health Service, and the United States Commissioner of Education. "to euard against arbitrary control and give additional assurance that this act will be handled in a practical and efficient manner hv the federal government." However, the board has onlv two chief functions: to aporove plans made by each state hefore it receives money from the national aporonriation: to decide when monev shall he withheld from a state. The administration of the act has been definitely placed in the hands. Of the federal Children's Bureau and the chief of the bureau is the executive officer. Not more than $50,000 has heen allowed for the necessary administrative expenses.: | William Fowler Author of 'We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet"' Of peculiar interest at this time, when articles are being published upon the authors of old Latter-day Saints hymns, is the appended communication, signed by the grandson of William Fowler, who wrote that most universal of all hymns used in "Mormon" services, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." The material for this sketch was obtained for us by John F. Fowler, nephew of the poet, who takes care of the elevator in our Bishop's Building. That the author of this widely sung selection was a man of great mental and physical powers, there can be no doubt, and that his service to his Church was heartfelt and sincere there has never been question. A peculiar fact in connection with his life is the journal he faithfully kept, inscribed in a certain style of shorthand.. This journal is in the possession of his family, but up to the present time no one has been found who is able to read the symbols of the system in which he recorded his personal history. The communication follows: "In the Christmas edition of the Deseret News there appeared articles on authors of some of the famous Church hymns. We wish here to correct some errors, and enlarge upon facts concerning William Fowler, the author of 'We thank thee, O God, for a prophet,' which a search in his journals has brought to light. "Most of his journals were written in shorthand, he having used a system that today is not in use. No doubt many interesting incidents of missionary experience, etc., could be related, if some one could be found who is familiar with the symbols of this system. "His father, Richard Fowler, was a British soldier, sent to Australia in the service of his country, taking his wife, Bridget, (of Irish descent) along. While there, on May 9, 1830, William was born. "When the little boy was 314 years old they went to East India to remain for five years, at the expiration of which time Richard Fowler was discharged. They then returned to England, settling in Sheffield, where Richard died after two years. His wife followed him three and a half years later, leaving William an orphan at 14 years of age. "His parents belonged to the Wesleyan faith. He first heard the gospel in 1848. Accepting the truth, he was baptized July 29, 1849, by J. V. Long, and ordained a priest on March 3, 1851, under the hands of Elders J. V. Long, Robbins, Roper and Mor- 76, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ris. During the same month he was appointed to do missionary work which he continued for four years. "In 1858 he was ordained an elder by Isaac Able and Ralph Harrison, and in 1854 he married Ellen Bradshaw of Sheffield. He seemed to have been endowed abundantly with talent, especially in music, literature, and handicraft. There are now in the family a pair of razors which give evidence that he was very proficient in his trade as a cutler. "The hymn for which he is noted is by no means his only composition. A splendid violin and a piccolo of which he is said to have been master, are now in the possession of his only son, and they are prized very highly. The violin still makes music in the hands of his son and grandson. "With his wife and three children he emigrated to Utah, leaving London, June 4, 1863, and arriving in Salt Lake City Oct. 3 of the same year. The family finally located at Manti, Utah. "His ability to continue the work on this earth he so well began was soon ended, as has been the case with so many brave hearts; he gave his life for his religion. He contracted a cold while crossing the plains, which turned to consumption and finally resulted in his death Aug., 1865, being then only 35 years of age. His body now rests in the Manti cemetery. His three children, Harriet Fowler Allen, of Victor, Idaho; H. A. Fowler, of Huntington, Utah; and Florence Fowler Adair, of Salt Lake City; are yet living, and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren bear his name. A PRAYER OF GRATITUDE. Matilda K. Galloway. I thank thee, heavenly Father, For thy blessings unto me. I thank thee for my loved ones, And for the gospel free. I thank thee for salvation; That I learned to love the truth; And I thank thee for the parents Who were guardians of my youth. I thank thee for redemption Obtained thru' his great love, And help me, heavenly Father, To always worthy prove. Bubbles and Troubles By Ruth Moench Bell CHAPTER IIT (CONTINUED) Rhea happened in unexpectedly on the usual scene of turmoil which characterized the Collins home of late years. Hurry! Flurry! Worry! Raised voices, clenched fists, fur flying, characterized Ralph and Ruth. Baffled plans, thwarted ambitions, upset notions characterized the baby. Mrs. Collins, like a distracted mother hen, fluttered between the cook stove, the baby and the battle, always on, between Ralph and Ruth. "TI shall certainly go mad," the mother often repeated. "When you've all killed me off I hope you will be satisfied." Marjory, sensitive and over-wrought, alternated between an attempt to comfort her mother and an endeavor to reconcile the twins to each other and a usually successful effort to soothe the baby. Into this uproar stepped Rhea, trim, elegant, composed. She pitied her aunt's chagrin and Marjory's shame. Marjory was thinking to herself even while the greetings were going on; "Even if we are poor, we needn't be so common." "Mother's going to pack me off with her to the coast again," Rhea explained when she and Marjory were alone in Marjory's bed-room. "She tells daddy it's to give me a chance. But I am just the excuse, so I ran away from the confusion of teas and bridge luncheons, dinner dances and farewell calls and all the rest of the fuss and nonsense." "And dropped into greater confusion and less beautiful fuss and nonsense," Marjory blushed. Rhea caught her by the hands: "What's wrong with us, anyhow?" she asked. "Mother's always chasing bubbles." "And my mother is always distracted over troubles," Marjory added.: "Our home is just Jazz music,' Rhea laughed. "And ours is Jazz discords," Marjory supplemented. "Every day is like this. And at night mother is so tired and nervous we all have to rush to bed and then there is more quarreling. Mother does let me sit up till nine now that I am seventeen." "Papa sent me up because yours was an ideal home, Mugs, isn't that a joke? The simple life, homelike and quiet and contented! I could picture your mother all arrayed in violet and lavender, her hair in soft curls and waves, just a touch of powder to take 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the shine off. Her feet prettily dressed, resting on a foot-stool. I could see your father on the: other side of the table reading his paper and glancing over at her once in a while because she looked so sweet and lovely. You and I at the piano. Ralph and Ruth asleen or playing on the floor. Toddles in bed, of course. It all seemed so inviting to me because we never have anything like that. There is always a rush to be off somewhere." "T wanted it, too," Marjory sighed. "But it never happens. That dream of a boudoir cap suggested it to me. I know ladies only wear them in the mornings or when they are ill. But this one was so pretty and made mamma seem so much younger that I wanted her to dress up for the evening siice she hasn't time before.", Sunday morning came with its usual uproar getting every one off to Sunday school. Stockings had to be mended. Clothes had to be brushed and sponged. Buttons had to be sewed on. Some articles of apparel were missing and only located after a nerve-racking search. It was just a little more chaotic than the week-day rush. Papa Collins glanced up from his paper and then finally delivered 'himself of his longest speech on record. "My mother had ten," he observed, "Saturday night all ten of us were bathed in a tub, mind you, no stationary tub attached to a tank of hot water, just a tea kettle, a tub, a boiler and a kitchen fire. We all went into 'clean under-wear. Each blacked his shoes trying to make them out-shine the others! Each brushed his clothes. I can see it all now. Ten chairs each; with a pair of shining shoes before it, a pair of clean, darned hose and clothes, even to necktie and ribbons suspended over the back of each chair. Sunday morning we all got into our clothes without confusion. Sunday all was peace and quiet. We felt its influence before we were out of bed. We had a word of prayer before breakfast. When Sunday-school was out we had a 'short walk. Then all helped with the simple meal. Mother and father had gone with us." Marjory tittered: "You must have looked like a small Sunday school of your own, ten of you." "Ten would be splendid," Rhea cried. "Any number rather than to be the only child." "Tt was impressive," the father continued. "And wonderful to be so favored as to take mother's or father's hand and talk over the stories and songs we had sung. After dinner father and mother read their Bible quietly in their own room. We children understood that we could play quiet games. Then we all took a long Sabbath walk and enjoyed the trees and the sky, the clouds, the birds, the brooks and grass and flowers." BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 79 "T suppose I am not the manager your mother was," Mrs. Collins replied bitterly. "I just can't get them ready and off, myself and the baby ready in time without being tired out for the day." "But you don't even get to afternoon meeting," her husband cried. "I can't get the dinner over and dress in time. And they have such long sermons at night." Mr. Colllins turned to his paper. He had made the same obesrvations many times and without avail. Marjory and Rhea followed Ralph and Ruth to Sunday school. "Do your papa and mamma go to church?' Marjory asked. "Papa says he is too weary from the business rush of the week to be shut up in church on Sunday. And mamma is too tired from the social whirl. And they don't like the authorities. I thought our bishop was the finest man on earth but papa and mamma don't seem to think so. In fact, they say all fhe leading church men have so many faults." "Papa and mamma don't seem to bother much about the church authorities. They are always 'having it in' for the profiteers," Marjory laughed with the frankness of seventeen. It was really a great joy to unburden themselves so. A few days later Rhea cut her visit short and left for home. She got as far as town with Marjory and then a sight met their eyes which they could never forget. A truck suddenly whizzed past them and drew up before the doctor's office. A man on the seat beside the driver, held in his arms a flaxen haired little girl whose head hung limply over his shoulder. Marjory clutched Rhea by the arm, "Ruth," she gasped: "A motor accident." A man hurried upstairs with his apparently lifeless burden. The truck driver jumped out of the car and ran around to the side and picked up from the floor of the car a small boy, also with flaxen hair and limp body. Rhea felt faint and caught at Marjory for support: "Ralph. Too," she cied. "They left home for some candy not ten minutes ago." They followed the little forms up stairs. "Tt was a motor accident," they heard the driver explain to the doctors. "They stepped out in the middle of the street, between two cars right in the path of a heavy truck which was backing." Rhea and Marjory tried to follow into the operating room. But the door was closed firmly in their faces. 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "It is my little brother and sister," Marjory moaned. "Won't you find out if they are alive?" The office girl went out and then presently returned with the word that the little girl was alive and would recover, but the boy's case was very serious. Somehow the girls reached home and somehow the word was broken 'to the father and mother. Then the doctors followed with the two little forms still unconscious. As if it were some fearful tragedy happening to somebody else, Mrs. Collins looked on with frozen terror. Rhea had expected tears and perhaps hysteria. But her aunt showed only a deadly calm. She neither spoke nor sighed. "Pray, Aunt Edith! Pray! Pray! We must pray for them!' Rhea clasped her aunt's tense form and sobbed. One long shudder ran through the mother at the words: "T can't," she cried, and a low sob shook her frame. "I can't. I haven't prayed for so long I am ashamed to ask for help. So much to be grateful for and not a word of gratitude, only complaints and bitterness. I can't ask now." "Yes, yes, Auntie! Heavenly Father is not like that. He is good and kind and forgiving, like daddy. If I neglected for years to tell daddy that I loved him and never thanked him, and then I suddenly crept back for a favor; daddy would give it to me if it cost half his life. Daddy would be glad that I had come back to him at last. We must pray, Auntie." And Rhea pulled her aunt to her knees beside the bed. CHAPTER IV "Aunt Jane needs me,' Rhea wired home with the news of the accident. "May I stay until Ralph recovers?" Never even in her thoughts would Rhea admit the possibility that he might not get well again. It was Rhea who kept up the faltering faith in that household. It was Rhea who took up the work herself. She had always yearned to cook and manage a household. But at home there were maids to do everything and her mother insisted that she should not do their work and spoil them. This was her opportunity to prove that she had a real genius for the home. And she rejoiced in the chance to help the afflicted family. "You stay by Ralph," she would say to her aunt: or, "better take a walk now with Uncle. We'll take care of the children and do everything." Sometimes she urged her aunt to lie down and rest while she and Marjory took charge. In this way work was soon shifted onto their young shoulders. BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 81 And the necessity helped to make them capable managers. Baby must not cry; the noise disturbed the sufferers. A thousand ingenius ways they found of diverting him. Dishes must not be rattled. Ruth had reached the stage of jumping at sudden noises. They learned that dishes could be washed quietly. Loud, highpitched voices penetrated the sick-room. They reminded each other and cultivated gentler tones. "How smoothly everything is going, girls,' Aunt Edith commented gratefully when she came out to the scene of action "You are so quiet and orderly." Sunday came and with it definite answer to their prayers. The doctor assured them that undoubtedly now Ralph would entirely recover and be all right again. He was able to speak and recognize everyone. And Ruth was allowed to sit up for a few minutes at a time in his mother's arms. "Sing something," Ralph begged, when they told him it was Sunday. "What shall we sing, dear," the mother asked. "Do you know any Sunday school songs, Mama? They sang such a pretty one last Sunday. It was something about, 'Did you think to pray'?" Edith Collins caught her breath with a sob. These few days of anxiety had given her much time for reflection. "If I had only kept up with my meetings I would have kept the spirit and not neglected to pray. Such songs would have reminded me," she thought to herself. "Can't you sing it?" Ralph insisted. With tears of gratitude they gathered around the piano, "Could you spare papa and mamma to go to fast meeting this afternoon?" Mrs. Collins asked the group. "Oh, yes," they all cried. So it was arranged that Rhea and Marjory should go to Sunday school and joint meeting. And the mother and father go in the afternoon. One week before they had nothing for which to be grateful.. Now they had everything. One week before they had been wretchedly poor, which, interpreted, meant they could not afford luxuries. Now with big doctor bills to pay they were rich beyond compare. They had each other and had learned how precious each was to the other. One week before they had no time to go to church. Today with two sufferers to care for, they could manage easily. After church Mrs. Collins slipped into the violet negligee and all that went with it. She had allowed Marjory to curl her hair and arrange it in a newer and more becoming mode. Once she had made herself as beautiful as possible to please the man whom she hoped would and finally did become her hus- 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE band. Now she realized that she had four times the incentive to make herself beautiful. There were four admiring children as well as a husband who wished to adore her and be proud of her. "You look twenty years younger, mother," Marjory kissed her. The look of contentment and deep seated peace, peace of soul that little things could not easily disturb, the look that Rhea's papa had remembered, was on her face. "T don't believe I. Dare ever be unhappy or bitter again," she breathed to herself, as she saw the looks of love and admiration with which her family caressed her. "Ts it love, or prayer, or gratitude, that makes you so beautiful tonight, or is it those pretty clothes?" her husband asked. "All three; no, four," she said happily. "And you even have time to love us now, Mamma," Ruth smiled as she cuddled contentedly in her mother's arms. "T shall take time out of each day hereafter just to love you all, and be happy I have you," Mrs. Collins resolved. "You must remind mamma if I forget." Much was made clear to the mother that evening. She got acquainted with the souls of her two quarrelers, Ralph and Ruth, when she saw them so appreciative of beauty and music, so responsive to harmony of soul or surroundings, so easily disturbed by discords and the clash of confusion. "This is such a beautiful evening," Ralph sighed. "You shall have many of them, dear," Mrs. Collins promised. "I'm going to be a fairy god-mother tonight and promise that every good wish shall come true. But you must each help even a fairy god-mother. First I shall promise that every day shall be just as beautiful and peaceful and happy as today has been." 5 "Even wash-days," Ralph cried with delight. "Blessed boy, have they been a horror to you, too," the mother winced. "Beautiful wash-days would be a fine ideal for a mother to have. I shouldn't wonder if that could be the. Test of a woman's character and housekeeping. Beautiful wash-days! Yes, the fairy god-mother promises even that. I think she can see her way clear to grant it, too." "T don't believe I'd quarrel with Ruth any more if I had Bible stories every night and songs like this," Ralph concluded. "And I believe I. 'could be good natured on wash-days if I could clean up first, make house and myself tidy before we begin. And if we wouldn't hurry so much," Marjory observed thoughtfully. "Rach suggestion must be carried into effect. Tried out at least," the mother smiled. "They have all seemed good so far. BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 83 What is yours, Rhea? You have been so quiet tonight and you especially have shown your grandmother's talent for housekeeping." "T haven't any to make," Rhea cried. There was a suspicion of tears in her eyes. "I was just thinking that I'd like to stay here forever. No, I don't mean that exactly. But there is such a lovely) spirit here tonight. But if you do want me to make a suggestion, I believe that if we cottld begin each day with a prayer of love and gratitude and keep the sweet influence of prayer with us in every task it would be so easy to do right and be happy and contented." Marjory squeezed her hand lovingly. They had always envied Rhea. And it was plain to see tonight that she almost envied them and dreaded for some reason to leave them. If they could have known, she was wishing her papa and mamma could be so happy; and wondering what they had talked over, and wondering, with apprehension, what had come of it. "Well, there remains my suggestion, too," Papa Collins said humorously. "Nobody seems interested in mine." "T know what yours is," his wife pressed his hand affection. Ately. "You are wishing we would get ready for Sunday school on Saturday night? Well, the fairy god-mother must make good and promise that, also." "There's just one thing that spoils the evening," Marjory sighed as she and Rhea sat with arms entwined about each other, "Rhea is going home tomorrow. And even a fairy god-mother can't stop her." "Ts it true, Rhea?" They all questioned; for the little group had grown very dear to one another in the recent trouble. "Yes, I don't like to tell you. Mother is going to take me to California again as soon as I get home. And this is what I love. I hate the part of California she always takes me to, the smart set and all that. If it weren't for the beach and the grand old ocean I couldn't bear it. 'J never did care for party dresses and all the fuss of formal affairs. They seem so artificial and unnatural. This seems real." "You are like your father, Rhea," Aunt Edith cried lovingly. "He never did enjoy such things. And they were all the world to Ethel." "T wish I could trade places with you for just one year," Marjory said enviously. "Perhaps you wouldn't if you knew all that is before Rhea," Mrs. Collins surmised, for she felt that all was not well in the Leslie home. (To be continued ) The Tate Family By Margueritte Cregar Lund We are presenting to our readers, a beautiful portrait of an unusual family. Mr. John "W. Tate, the father, and Mrs. Elizabeth D. Tate, the mother of seven sons and seven daughters, all living but one, constitute one of the most unique and splendid families found in this Church and state. Two of the sons are unmarried; five have filled missions abroad; the oldest son has served in the Philippine war; and one of the sons, Leland S. Tate, enlisted in the recent war but was unable to pass the examination. All of the daughters are married; one to Nicholas G. Morgan, who is a member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A., one to Alfred Hanks, and one married daughter who is dead. The entire family are workers in the full sense of the word. They were born and reared on a farm in Tooele county. They have prospered in worldly affairs and have been busily engaged in Church activities in the various quorums and organizations... All of the children have attended elementary schools and universities. Theodore Tate was in training for two months at the University of Utah preparing for war enlistment. Charles Delmer Tate was on a mission during the war, but registered, so, if needed, he could respond to the call, but the war came to a close before he was needed. John Phillip Tate was a student at the Brigham Young University, at Provo, where he enlisted to fight in the war with Spain and went to the Philippines with the Utah boys. He married Mabel T. McBride, and they have 8 children, 4 sons and 4 daughters; Wm. Francis Tate attended school at the Brigham Young College, at Provo, also. He married Mae Belle Gundred and they have 5 boys and 3 girls. He filled a mission in the Southern States. Joseph H. Tate married Iva Erickson and they are the proud father and mother of one son, who was a student at the Latter-day Saint School in Salt Lake City. George Lawrence Tate attended the Latter-day Saints school and Jater married Alice Minerva Richards, and they now have 4 sons and 2 daughters. He is also bishop of the Inkom ward, in Idaho. Mary Alice Tate graduated from the Latter-day Saints school, taught school several years in Tooele, was president of the Primary for about 10 years, and later married Alfred Lyman THE TATE FAMILY 85 Hanks who is a grand son of the late Elder Francis M. Lyman. Mary Alice Tate and her husband had only one child, a daughter, and she died July 6, 1918. Ethel S. Tate, was also a student at the Latter-day Saints school, and later married Nicholas G. Morgan and they have one son and three daughters. Della Mar Tate married Samuel Campbell; a contractor and builder of Salt Lake City. They have one son and three daughters. Annie Tate attended the Latter-day Saints school and then married Franklin W. Atkin, who is one of the high councilors of Tooele stake. They are the father and mother of three sons and five daughters, and have been on a mission to New Zealand together with their three children. Clara Tate was a student of the LatterJOHN W. TATE AND HIS SEVEN SONS day Saints school and married Henry Hough. They have one son and are living in California: Leuwella Tate was president of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of the Tooele North ward, a music teacher, a play leader of the stake primary, and is married to Alfred Lyman Hanks as his second wife, her sister being dead. Leland Standford Tate attended the Agriculture College at Logan, went to South Africa on a mission, and then married Marinda Brown of Grantsville, Utah, and they have one daughter. Edith Viola Tate attended high school, married Vern A. Brackin, who is a counselor to the bishop of the St. Johns ward, of Tooele stake, and they have one son and one daughter. Charles Delmar Tate attended the Agricultural College at Logan. He went to the Southern States on a mission, and is not married. Theodore Tate also attended the Agricultural College 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and is now filling a mission in the Western states and is also unmarried. Elizabeth De La Mare Tate, the mother, was set apart as president of the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association by Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young, June 18, 1870, which Society was later called the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. She was a teacher in the Relief Society for many years, and was Trustee for the Relief Society, was set apart as counselor to President Barbara Gowans, of the Primary, when the Tooele ward was divided, and appointed counselor to the president of the North ward Relief Society. Later she was set apart as one of the stake aids which position is still held by her. On MRS. ELIZABETH D. TATE AND HER SEVEN DAUGHTERS March 22, 1921, both Brother and Sister Tate were called by President George F. Richards to be workers in the Salt Lake Temple, which mission forms a beautiful and fitting close to a noble and successful Latter-day Saint career. All honor to them and their remarkable family. It is not too often to repeat the axiom every month, that in order to nourish the body properly we must breathe pure air, eat plain natural foods, exercise our muscles every day, and get a certain amount of quiet, refreshing sleep. World's Destiny in Hands of U. S. Two courses lie before the United States, the one leading to the next war of inconceivable ends; the other to the greatest "place any nation has ever held in history. Will Irwin, war "correspondent, author and lecturer, told the members of the Bonneville club and their ladies at their dinner at the © Hotel Utah, Jan. 14, 1922. Mr. Irwin did not mince his words. He spoke cold truths. His picture of the next war was not pretty, and was received by his audience with silence akin to a shudder. But his view - of the alternative was welcomed with the applause of real relief. Mayor Neslen introduced the toastmaster, G. A. Marr, to probably the largest number of guests at a Bonneville club dinner. Mr. Marr made brief work of his introduction, while the speaker himself launched directly into his subject, one new to most western ears, and told of things which are current in only the highest councils. AIRPLANES DANGEROUS The present disarmament conference, Mr. Irwin declared, has averted a war in the Pacific, towards which we were bound headlong in the competitive building of battleships, now tempo rarily halted. And while, he added, the conference has not accomplished all that many had hoped, it has made the first step; it has proved the first skirmish of the war against war. "Tn the next war," Mr. Irwin said. "The initial step, almost the declartion of war. The aggressive nation will send airplanes in overwhelming forces equipped with bombs calculated to wipe the capital of the rival nation off the face of the earth. "Every army chief in Europe and in this country knows this to be a fact. Colonel J. C. Fuller of the royal British tank corps was awarded a gold medal for the most valuable contribution to military science for a year for a paper in which he made this statement, saying that the purpose of war now is to enforce a will upon an entire nation;'no longer simply the destruction of an army. He told how gas will be the weapon of the next war and how gas can be propelled against the wind. ANCIENT CODE DISCARDED "Major General Swinton, largely responsible for the develop- 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ment of the tank in the last war, approved this forecast. He it is who said, 'We must learn to kill by wholesale.' "The next war will be between every force, every power there is in nations. In this last war the lid went off for women: the whole code of civilized warfare which had been built up since the days of the barbarians was discarded. "Tn the first two weeks of the war the Germans violated the code when they bombed Paris. In the following fortnigh Britain put in its food blockade against Germany, thus indirectly if not directly making war on noncombatants. "Week -by week in the war we who were there to see watched the articles of the code of civilized warfare go one by one until the whole had been shattered. "By the need of the last war every function of the nation was working for the purposes of war. From the beginning of 1918 the weakest baby just born became just as much the target for war as the most stalwart man in the lines. BRAINS ENTER CONFLICT "Prior to the late war the military industry had fallen behind the industries of peace in their development. The military mind is not inventive, not creative. The best weapon Napoleon had in 1814 with which to kill men was cannon, somewhat improved, but yet the cannon. "The last war brought brains into this business of killing. It brought to bear all the inventive genius 'of trained technical men. All the resources of the laboratory and the mind. The first-class minds, theretofore devoted to the arts of peace, were in the last year devoted to finding means of killing. "A turning point in world history came on April 22, 1915. It was on that day that the Germans loosed their first gas attack. If they had loosed the gas at fifty places that day instead of one. They would have won the war. "Within twenty-four hours, however, samples of that chienine gas had been sent to England for analysis. Within three days the first gas masks were a the lines. TERRIBLE GAS INVENTED "Then the Germans tried mustard gas, attaking the body. "Before the war ended the Americans had great piles of mystery shells behind the lines. These shells were filled with Lewisite gas. I tell you truly what the properties of this gas are. This gas is invisible; it sinks into the ground; it has fiftyfive times the spread of other gases; it is deadly, attacking both the skin and the lungs. Twelve aeroplanes loaded with bombs WORLD'S DESTINY IN HANDS OF U. S.. 89 might in one night with this gas kill all life and vegetation in the city of Berlin. "Experiments with bacilla and by light rays provide a frightfully fruitful field in the study of how to kill. The Americans were planning, for instance, to blast the whole German wheat crop of 1919 with a blight dropped from the air. "In 1920 we discovered that modern preparations for war were costing three times as much'as the preparations for war before 1913, because war had been brought up to a mechanical date. Tanks, for instance, at $2500 each, replace the cavalry where a horse costs $150.. "So the conference on the limitation of armaments was called. We who have followed these things were a bit skeptical We saw the old lot of poker-playing European statesmen at Washington. For the United States, we saw Underwood, a politician; Root, a good deal of a poker player himself; Hughes an unknown quality because, as then untried in international affairs; and Lodge—Lodge, who for the past thirty years has not engaged in the dangerous pastime of thought. OPPORTUNITY IS AMERICA'S "The world was surprised when the Hughes proposals were presented. They made a very fine thing in keeping with the best traditions of American diplomacy. It has averted a ver nasty war we were headed for in the Pacific. "Ts not the present conditions among nations international anarchy with no morals among nations? You talk about our splendid isolation. The world is getting too close. When something very important happens in Salt Lake it has its repercussion in Nancy, France. "We stand at a very solemn parting of the ways. Whichsoever way we go there can be no turning back. One way leads into a comety of nations, call it what you will, give credit for it tc whom you will, even Lodge. The delusion of history has been that national greatness exists with bigness. What did Rome contribute, the Holy Roman Empire, Spain, in its hour of glory: "But the United States can be known throughout history as the first nation, which, having the power of a giant, refused to use that power as might a giant. "We can be blessed through all history as the nation which preferred not to dwell in the tawdry temples of empire, but in a house builded with hands." Suggestive Programs FOR ANNUAL DAY, MARCH 17, 1922 Lucy May Green Annual Day is again with us, and Latter-day Saint women throughout the world will gather together in meetings of praise and gratitude to our Father in heaven for the restoration of the gospel and for the inspiration which led the Prophet Joseph to turn the key and open the door for the emancipation and advancement of woman. Material for programs may be found in the March numbers of volumes 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, Relief Society Magazine. Those desiring a musical cantata, written especialy for Annual Day will find "The Opened Door," simple, melodious, and appropriate for the occasion. May be obtained from Daynes Beebe Music Co. The pageant, "A Century of Latter-day Saint Womanhood," outlined in the March, 1921, Magazine was given, recently by one of the stakes with splendid success from anartistic, social and financial standpoint. See page 647, Volume 8, Relief Society Magazine. We hope the following programs may be found useful, and that every Relief Society throughout the Church will, in the measure best suited to its conditions, celebrate the auspicious day. Socials at which simple refreshments are served are in order; decorations and favors may be in green in honor of coming spring and "17th of Ireland." A "GRATITUDE" PROGRAM Topics for five-minute talks on gratitude for 1. The gospel. Of Jesus Christ. IT. Our testimony of its truth. III. The sealing power, including (a) marriage for eternity, (b) temple work, IV. Our blessings. V. The joy of service. VI. The land of the free. MUSIC SUGGESTED "How firm a foundation," p. 32; "I know that my Redeemer lives," p. 73; "We thank thee, heavenly Father," p. 80; duet, "Voices from the dead," p. 246, Vol. 7, R. S. Mag; duet, "God bless our mountain home," p. 73; trio, "With heavenly inspiration," p. 129; trio, "Count your blessings"; solo and chorus, "We love our work," p. 138; solo and chorus, "Utah we love thee," p. 101; "America," 98,, The hymns are selected from the Relief Society Hymn Book, out most of them may be found elsewhere. Other topics will suggest themselves, SUGGESTIVE PROGRAM 91 A DAY IN OLD NAUVOO Hymn, "Now let us rejoice." (Sung at organization of R. 5.) "An angel from on high." Topic for speaker, "Restoration of the gospel." Story for "Nauvoo the Beautiful." Solo for, "The Seer." Topics, "The organization of Relief Society." Trio, "With heavenly inspiration," 129 R. S. Book. Topics, "The Nauvoo temple and last days in Nauvoo." Hymn, "Praise to the man." A "DISARMAMENT PROGRAM" Song, "Come thou glorious day of promise," p. 20 R. Se Book. Solo, "Ring out, sweet bells of peace;" or hymn, "God of our fathers," Sunday School Song Book. Address, "The Disarmament Conference." (See recent numbers of Literary Digest, and other current events magazines for materials. ) Song, "The new freedom song," p. 127 R. S. Hymn Book. Address, "Disarmament for Latter-day Saints." Armor necessary. Ephesians 6. "Garments of salvation." "The whole armor of God." "Put away (Colossians 3) all "Toins girt with truth." anger, wrath, malice, blas- "Breast plate of righteousness." phemy, filthy communication, "Shield of faith." foolish questions: contention, "Helmet of salvation." uncleanliness, hatred, strife, - "Sword of the Spirit." envyings, revellings." (5 GalFeet shod with "Gospel of atians. ) peace." - Light speeches, (loud) laughter, "The mantle of charity." lustful desires, pride, light- "Thy word—a lamp unto the mindedness. Feet." Doc. And Cov. 88:121-124. "The robe of righteousness." Hymn, "Come, oh, thou King of kings." 27 R. S. Book. EIGHTY YEARS OF PROGRESS 1842-1922. Hymn, "Oh blest was the day." Topics, "The organization of the Relief Society, Nauvoo." "Sketch of Emma Smith and her administration." Solo, "The seer." "Eliza R. Snow, great leader and organizer." we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Home Industry, Retrenchment, Woman's Co-op. General Board. Literary work. Song, "O my Father." Zina D. H. Young.—The silk industry, nurse work, National Council, Temple worker. Bathsheba W. Smith and her times—Temple worker, Relief Society nursing. Classes— 'Emmeline B. Wells—Poet, suffragist, Woman's Exponent, R. S. Magazine, Wheat saving, Home gardening, Choir work, Conservation, Relief Society outlines. Hymn, "Our mountain home so dear." Clarissa S. Williams.—Red Cross worker, Organized charity, War work. R. S. Nurses aids. Biographical sketches will be found, page 126, Vol. 7, R. S. Magazine. Hymn, "We love our work." 138, R. S. Hymn Book. MUSIC PROGRAM World music masterpieces with words adapted to Latterday Saint services. "Angels Serenade," (Braga) 140, R. S. Hymn Book. "Spring song," (Mendelssohn) 132, R. S. Hymn Book. "You'll remember me," (Balfe) 133, R. S. Hymn Book. "Humoresque," (Dvork) 134, R. S. Hymn Book. "Barcarolle,". (Offenbach) 130, R. S. Hymn Book. "Rigoletto," ( Verdi) 128, R. S. Hymn Book. "Juanita," 76, R. S. Hymn Book. "Aloha Oc," (Liliuokalani) 138, R. S. Hymn Book. With one exception the above have been arranged and adapted by Professor Brigham Cecil Gates. Topics for addresses may be music appreciation, or the words of the hymns might be sung, read and discussed. SUGGESTIVE "NEW" SONGS FOR COMMUNITY SINGING "Come Saints, and sing," 116 R. S. Book. "To thee, O heavenly Father, 88 R. S. Book. "We thank thee heavenly Father," 80 R. S. Book. "The gospel message," 132 R. S. Book. "Don't worry," 111 Deseret S. S. Book. "Try it again," 156, Deseret S. S. Book. "Let us treat each other kindly," 146, Deseret S. S. Book. PAGEANT "O ye mountains high," for stake or ward celebration. Orchestra, "Oh ye mountains high." Prologue, "A. D. 1000, Lake Bonneville. I Music, "Nephite lamentation." Bo: ek SUGGESTIVE PROGRAM 93 Tableau, "Lamanite scene: Crossing the great waters," (Indians, canoes, mountain-tops background. Anthem, "Vales of Deseret," (Evan Stephens). "The Prophecy," (Micah 4:1, 2 and 4). TABLEAU, "THE DESERT" Sage brush, (Sego lilies represented by small children) Indian with canoe on shoulder. Interpretive Dance, "The awakening of the Desert," Desert spirit, and Sego lilies. Lst. Episode, "The coming of the Pioneers." Planting fields, Ensign Peak, Home making. Hymn, "High on the mountain top." TABLEAU, "THE DESERT BLOSSOMING" Scene of Harvest and Home.; Anthem, "Let the mountains shout for joy." Tableau, "Missionaries leaving home." Hymn, "Go, ye messengers of glory." 2nd. Episode, "Gathering to the Mountains." (Assembly of various nationalities, with a number of missionaries in charge.) The farewell, embarking, meeting on ship, the song (Ist. Verse, "O ye mountains high." "The storm at sea." Music, "The storm," or "Peace, be still." Tableau, "Though the great and the wise all thy beauties dispise." Street meeting in foreground: elder preaching: stylishly dressed people hurrying to and fro, few stopping to listen. Interlude, "In thy mountain retreat, God will strengthen thy feet." "March of the Spirits of Progress," industry, art, music, architecture, education, truth, intelligence, righteousness, faith, hope, charity, inspiration, civic pride, homemaking, mutual improvement. These may drill, or dance, or merely pose, while music is softly played or sung. 5 Tableau: "Their silver and gold, as the prophets foretold, shall be brought to adorn thy fair head." Utah attended by maids representing various countries receive gifts, gold, silver, and copper from the mines, harvest products, etc., from farming regions, each country bringing its own gift. State song, "Utah, we love thee." 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 47TH. EPISODE.—ARRIVAL OF THE SAINTS IN UTAH "The Greeting," Zion, the promised land. "In thy temples we'll bend, ( joy in service) All thy rights we'll defend (soldiers, nurses), And our home shall be ever with thee." Finale,—Grand tableau with all Participating, sing the hymn through. Benediction. The pageant is given in brief outline. The various episodes may be dramatized and dialogue added. Careful attention should be paid to scenery, lighting and costumes, which may be simple or elaborate as desired, the flag should wave over Ensign peak, and should be seen in the state and final tableaux. New Church History The new Church Historian, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, has signalized his advent into that responsible position with the issu-- ance of a remarkable and illuminating brief History of the Church. We have Whitney's elaborate History of Utah and we have the Formal History of the Church as prepared by Elder B. H. Roberts, already in six volumes, and we have Whitney's Brief History of Utah. A number of years ago a Brief History of the Church was written by Elder Edward H. Anderson, editor of the Era, though none of these, excellent as they are and valuable as they may be to students, will or could take the place of this splendid new and compact array of facts which have been collected and arranged with infinate care and solicitude by our new Church Historian. Accuracy marks every page of the volume; dependability might be said to form the keynote of the book. One feels a sense of finality of appeal and truth in detail. Added to these sterling qualities are the up-to-date references and cross references, paragraph headings in bold type which catch the eye and focus the attention; while all of the mechanical details are worked out in something approaching modern perfection of printing. The style is lucid and while dispassionate, has warmth, conviction, and personality in diction: altogether the book will find a place in every home and in every student's library. We commend it to the women of this organization for study and reference. — Notes/from the Field ' 7 By Amy Brown Lyman Tongan Mission Mrs. LeVera W. Coombs, president of the Relief Society of the Tongan mission, writes very interestingly of the recent visit of Elders David O. McKay and Hugh J. Cannon to this mission. A general conference of the Relief Society was held in order that the Relief Society workers might have an opportunity to meet these elders and hear them speak. ElderMcKay delivered his address in the English language; it was interpreted to the Tongan Relief Society by a native, Louis F. Woofgramn, and was recorded in Tongan shorthand. It was later reproduced in Tongan longhand and from this it has been re-translated into English by Elder S. Ibey May. Elder McKay spoke on the subject of home making, outlining the duties and privileges of the father and the mother and the children. He spoke also on the Relief Society work throughout the world, and complimented the women of the Tongan Relief Society for their devotion tc the work and their energy in carrying it forward. He was very much delighted to find so many of the young girls and women interested, enrolled and active members in the organization. British Mission Mrs. Mary Wells Whitney, president of the Relief Societies of the British mission, has suggested to the presidents of the various conferences that a Relief Society be organized in every branch of the conferences. Following her recent visit to the New- 96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE castle conference, President Osmond C. Crowther writes: "Sister Whitney will be pleased to know that her visit has resulted in much good. I shall be organizing two new Relief Societies next week, and a third in the near future, and the organizations we already have are doing much better. I think I can follow out her suggestions and have a Relief Society in every branch of the conference for her to visit next spring." Hawatian Mission At the Honolulu semi-annual conference of the Church, held October 7, 8, 9, 1921, one whole session was given to the Relief Society. Mrs. Mat Smith, president of the Relief Societies of the Hawaiian mission, was in charge and gave the introductory address. The other numbers on the program were as follows: instrumental selection, Minnie Napoleon; address, Care of Children, by Rebecca DeFries; duet, Abbie Smith, Martha Kuroda - piano selection, Frederika McGuire; address, Home Association President Minerva Fernandez; mothers' chorus, directed by Lydia Cummings; story, Mary Tyau. New Zealand Mission Following we give some extracts from a letter from Mrs. Ida Alleman Taylor, president of the Relief Societies of the New Zealand Mission: "A visit at home to a Relief Society is much easier made than is one in our scattered condition in New Zealand. In company with Elders McKay and Cannon, Prest. Kennard, of the Tahitian mission, and our mission president, I have just made a trip south, through the north Island, and -while the brethren were meeting with the Priesthood, I held Relief Society meetings at Porirua, Korongata, Nuhaka, Te Hapara, Tahoraite, Omahu, and Kopu, also the Europeans (Pakeha sisters) at Thames. In each of these societies one finds many of the Maori sisters who understand English and not a few who speak it freely. Six of the seven branches we visited have subscribed to the Relief Society Magazine. I carried a magazine with me containing the conference notes and they were very 'much interested in it and anxious to do what the organizations at home are doing. We are planning to take up a regular course of study in all our Maori associations, somewhat after the plans used in Zion, but will change them to conform to our' season of study. Our mission paper, (Maori) printed each fortnight, has given us permission to use its pages in gettine lesson outlines to our thirty organizations. Many lessons in charity and love are taught us by our Maori sisters. One branch which has no needy has offered to help any other which is NOTES FROM THE FIELD 97 overburdened, no matter where it is. Just a word and funds will be sent. A student from Tahiti recently died at the Maori Agricultural college. The Relief Society nearest the college, Korongata, has, offered to pay the burial expense should the parents be unable to meet it. Some time ago a honx burned down in a Maori neighborhood. Our Relief Society sisters went immediately to the rescue. They gave all they had in their treasury to help the mother and child, as the husband was away. On his return it was found that insurance covered the loss, but the sisters had given and would not be reimbursed They would rather that the family keep the money and get settled in another, better, home. Canadian Mission. Mrs. Margaret S. Jensen, president of the Relief societies of the Canadian mission writes that they have four active organizations at present; Winnipeg, Toronto, Hamliton and Brantford. The branches at Bracebridge and Preston have been disorganized because families from these localities have moved away, makin it impossible to maintain the organization. In the recent conferences held in these branches, special Relief Society meeting: were held which were very much appreciated by both the members and the missionaries. The following notes sent by Mrs. Jensel give an idea of some of the activities in this mission: Brantford: To a woman who was left a widow with five children and very destitute, the Relief Society gave emergency relief and later helped the mother to procure a position. A young man was found in a very poor condition suffering from heart trouble. The Relief Society took him nourishing foo: and bought supplies. A physician hearing of their good work. Offered his services free, and another charity organization hearing of what the "Mormon" Relief Society was doing, also assisted. Hamilton: With the help of the lady misisonaries, twentyfive days have been spent with the sick; three families helped with clothing and money. Toronto: Meetings have been held at different homes: tc help busy mothers sew. A family of Saints, recently from England, have been fitted out with winter's clothing. This was accomplished by holding several special sewing meetings. Preston. This branch was organized two years ago with six members. The members of this little branch have knit fifty-two pair of socks for the Red Cross, two sweaters, and paid out nearly $50 charity. Much credit is due the lady missionaries for their untiring efforts in all these organizations. 98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE California Mission At the recent semi-annual San Francisco conference, a banquet was given by the Relief Society of the Oakland branch to all missionaries in attendance. Jaurez Stake Because conditions in Mexico are unsettled it has not seemed advisable of late years for the General Board members to visit this stake. Still the Relief Society work is being ably carried Hospital. This was a mother with nine children, Arrangement: were made with relatives to care for the children and the mother was graduated from the course in August, 1921, with a first-class record. The Mexican branch at Colonia Dublan consists of fifteen native members. These women are intensely interested in their work as the officers speak English, they read the Magazine falithfully and interpret it to their workers. They Jare at present studying Church history. The needlework done in this - are always ready to do any needed welfare work among thei neighbors, Beaver Stake Three of the Relief Societies in Beaver stake were reorganized during 1921. Beaver West ward officers who retired after serving eight years, were as follows: Mrs. Fances L, Jones; president; Mrs. Susan J. Murdock, first counselor; Mrs. Amelia M. Pearce, second counselor; Mrs, S. Jennie Tanner, secretary, Mrs, Jean Hales, treasurer, Mrs. Isabelle McGregor, organist; dent, Mrs. Jones had served thirteen years as a Relief Society ofiicer. Adamsville outgoing jofficers were Mrs, Margaret Pearce, president: Mrs. Sarah A. Jones, first counselor; Mrs, Mary A. Jones, second counselor; Mrs, Lizzie P. Reese, secretary; Mrs. Nellie Heslington, treasurer. A social in their honor was arranged. Mrs. Pearce has labored zealously as president for NOTES FROM THE FIELD 99 twenty-six years, and has been an officer in the Relief Society altogether for 35 years. Retiring officers of Milford society, who had served two years, were Mrs. Retta Tanner, president, with Mrs. Maud Stoker and Mrs. Della Sevi, counselors; Mrs. Edna Bird, secretary; Mrs. Marie Tanner, treasurer, Mrs. Lucile Pitchforth, organist. Although some of these ladies have served diligently for about ten years, altogether, in different office: of the Relief Society, they have proved their loyalty to the cause by again consenting to accept new positions. The societies of this stake have adopted a home reading course from the standard Church works, which is proving to be very profitable. When the roll is called for the first meeting of every month, each one gives the number of chapters she has read from the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants or Pearl of Great Price. The ward secretaries report monthly to the state secretary the total number of chapters read from each of the above named books. Fremont Stake Rexburg has sustained a great loss in the passing of one of its most beloved citizens and early pioneers, Mrs. Sophia N. Ricks whose death occurred near the close of 1921. Mrs. Ricks was among the first pioneers who came to the Snake River Valley in 1883, and was the first president of the Relief Society of the Fremont stake, which then included what is now Teton, Yellowstone, Fremont and Rigby stakes. She held that office for a goodly number of years and traveled many miles with her co-workers organizing and visiting Relief Societies. She was a faithful worker in whatever position she held and at the time of hes death was a ward teacher in the Rexburg First ward Relief Society. Her death will be mourned by all who knew her fo: her willing service to others and her great charity for het fellowmen. Mrs. Ricks was born May 2, 1857, in Denmark where her parents accepted the gospel and when. A child she came with them to Utah. In her young womanhood she operated a large dairy for a number of years in Cache Valley. She was the wife of the late Joseph Ricks, and was the mother of six children, five sons and one daughter. Logan Stake During the summer when there was no regular lesson work, the Logan stake arranged a special program for the stake and local officers' meeting by inviting all the ex-presidents in the stake to be present and to speak of the work done during their terms of office. Other special features were also arranged in their honor. Among the ex-presidents present were Mrs. Susan 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Smith, one of the first members of the Relief Society in Logan Mrs. Anna Otte, who was president of the Relief Society i Copenhagen, Denmark, for six years; Louisa Sorensen and Marie Olsen, who had each been presidents in Christiania, Norway. Ward conferences have been held in each of the wards in this stake during the year 1921, with excellent programs. North Davis Stake Following is a compilation of a questionaire recently sent out by the North Davis stake Relief Society to the seven ward organizations: Is your society fully organized? Seven wards answered yes. Is your secretary interested in her work? Seven wards answered yes. Is her work satisfactory to the stake secretary? Seven wards answered yes. és Does she attend to all her meetings? Five answered yes; two, no.. Could she close and report her books at any time? Seven wards, yes. Are the Relief Society funds deposited in a bank? Sever wards, yes. Do you as a presidency meet and plan your work? Five wards, yes; two, no. Do you have a prayer meeting before your weekly meetings: Five wards yes; two, no. Are your teachers' books being used by your block teachers? Seven wards, yes. What per cent of your teachers are using your teachers' topics? Sixty per cent. During December, 1921, North Davis stake contributed a large supply of farm products and groceries to the Salt Lake stakes, for distribution among needy families. Among many other things, the consignment included the following; 459 quarts of fruit, 65 quarts of vegetables, 148 quarts of canned goods, 37 pounds of oatmeal, 45 pounds of germade, 1430 pounds of flour, 12 pounds dried fruit, 5 pounds of barley, 12 pounds of dried corn, 486 pounds of beans, 78 pounds of salt bacon, 12 bars of soap, 5 pounds of cheese, 50 pounds of sugar, 100 pounds of rice, 9 bushels of apples, 1000 pounds of squash, 100 pounds of wheat, 50 pounds of winter radishes, 50 pounds of cabbage, 100 pounds of turnips, 100 pounds of onions, 150 pounds of beets, 500 pounds of parsnips, 1400 pounds of carrots, and 190 sacks of potatoes. Other articles contributed were pickels, corn flakes, crackers, soda, butter, and overalls. The General Procession By James H. Anderson Germany owes the European entente allies 52,000 tons of gold. Where will she get it? San Francisco used more than 2,500 gallons of wine for piemaking in bakeries, at Christmas time. December has the highest record of any month in 1921 for robberies and burglaries in the United States. The total eclipse of the sun at Sydney, New South Wales, on Sept. 19, 1922, is to be viewed by delegations from all parts of the world. Wandamere Park, a beautiful summer resort adjoining Salt Lake City, was donated to the city in December, by Bishop Charles W. Nibley. Egypt furnished a vigorous rebellion in December, against British rule. It was quelled after considerable loss of life. American Jews have started to raise $14,000,000 for the aid of destitute and starving Jews in eastern and central Europe. The Methodist Episcopal church in the United States increased 90,404 in membership during the year ended December 1, 1921. A helicopter, or aerial vessel, which can rise and descend vertically, and fly without wings, has been tested successfully in Great Britain. Eugene V. Debbs, noted Socialist, sentenced in 1918 to ten years imprisonment for obstructing the draft laws in the United States, was pardoned on Christmas by President Harding. Europe is looking, at the opening of 1922, for America to devise some plan of universal peace and prosperity for the world. When confidence fails in that hope—war. 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Irish treaty, Great Britain's new arrangement with Ireland, has the approval of a majority of the Irish people, but the radicals there continued their outrages in December. Apostle David O. McKay, of Ogden, and Elder Hugh J. Cannon, of Salt Lake City, returned to Utah in December, from a trip around the world, visiting the L. D. S. Church Missions. Storms during the week preceding Christmas in Arkansas, Ohio, Mississippi, Louisiana, Kentucky, California and other States took a total of nearly 100 lives and millions of dollars in property. The Washington limitation of armament conference failed to eliminate the submarine, the aeroplane, and poison gas, as war devices, thus far doing little toward permament. Peace. A flying torpedo, said to be the most potent war weapon yet invented, underwent a successful test at the United States navy yard at Long Island, N. Y., in December. The American Workers' party, with delegates from various parts of the country, was organized in New York on December 24. The avowed purpose is to overthrow the American government and establish a "workers' government." Senator Reed Smoot of Utah has been selected as President Harding's spokesman on the tariff question now before the United States Senate, as the foremost authority upon tariff matters in the United States Congress. "A Negro Napoleon" is coming to be a leading topic of discussion in American newspapers, particularly in connection with the "self-determination of peoples" theory in Africa. Is the spectre of a negro or slave uprising about to alarm Europe? A Sinn Fein plot to blow up the city of Glasgow, in Scotland, was discovered and prevented by the police there, the day before Christmas. A large cache of weapons and powerful explosives was captured. British India, in the movement there to dispense with British rule, has two signers from Utah in a Christmas message of encouragement—Wm. H. Leary, dean of the lew school at the University of Utah, and M. P. Bales, president of the Utah Federation of Labor. THE GENERAL PROCESSION 103 An Italian syndicate has proffered the seven million dollars necessary to make a good harbor at Jaffa, the port of Jerusalem, With the Holy City within the control of Great Britain and its -Port of Jaffa controlled from Rome, think what may happen. The British Journal of Astrology publishes a prediction that a great war will break out in Europe in 1926, and that a BritishIsrael victory over Bolshevism and Mohammedanism wil] result in 1932, the last battle being fought in Palestine, northwest of Jerusalem. WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING 'French 'women are importing Chinese girls as nursemaids, Twelve towns in Great Britain have women mayors, Over 500 "picture brides" arrived in Hawaii in 1921, to secure Japanese husbands there.. French girls are now permitted to go into society without the conventional chaperone. Mrs. Gunda Martingdale is Sheriff of Alamakee county, Towa, and is making a good record against lawbreaking. Juvenile delinquency among girls in Kansas has increased 1 per cent in 1921, from 1920,, juvenile court records there show. An International Federation of Working Women was organized at Geneva, Switzerland, in December, one Purpose being to Promote trade organizations among women, Mrs. Manora Sweetland, of Angola, New York, is 85 years old, a widow, and an expert telegraph operator and stenographer, still working at the latter profession. _ Miss Bernice Humbert, of the Kansas State agricultural college, is at the head of the engineering class there, with 1,200 male students trailing along behind. 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Miss Mildred Kelly, bookkeeper at the Iuka, Ii, bank, headed a posse in search of bandits who robbed the bank in December, but the thieves escaped. In Paris, France, the Christmas fad in society was to give to automobiles the names of prominent women. In America, there is one feminine name for one machine—Lizzie. Madame Sun Yat Sun, wife of the president of the South China republic, was kidnapped by bandits and held for ransom in December, but later was rescued. Maturimania, or thinking they are more mature than their years indicate, is now declared by Miss Mary Bartelme, supervisor of female delinquents in Chicago, a most serious disease which threatens girls throughout the United States. Mrs. Lena Joyce, of Camas, Oregon, five feet one inch high, weight 110 pounds, is said to be the champion all round hunter of the Pacific Northwest, having killed cougars, bears, and other large, wild animals to the number of over 100. Ten women magistrates in Great Britain hold commissions signed by King George himself. Besides this, England has two women members of parliament and more than a score of women members in various town councils. Lady Astor, member of the British parliament, declared recently that "no architect should be allowed to plan a family house unless he is married and has three children, and then he should submit his plans to his wife." Siamese women, in a recent public discussion at Bangkok, Siam, on raising the age of consent there above 12 years, declared it could not be done because the Siamese girl reaches womanhood at the age of 12. Mrs. Alma White, head of the Pillar of Fire denomination in New York, in a Christmas sermon, declared that man's cupidity was responsible for women's immodesty in dress. The bared neck, for illustration, was a trick of the furrier and the jeweler. Zora Mehmed, a Turk who is visiting Paris, France, is 146 years old and has been married four times, gave a Christmas toast: 'Women, they may seem as sweet as the rosy dawn, but are more often like thorns, hidden by only a rosy exterior." No wife survives him to respond. THE GENERAL PROCESSION 105 Mrs. Howard Phelps, an employe of the American State department, is official map-maker at the limitation of armament conference in Washington, and is called on to answer many questions as to boundaries and spheres of influence of many nations. Elena Sanchez Acuna, a bright Mexican girl 12 years of age, is proving such a wonderful violinist that the City of Mexico has provided funds for her to finish her education in the musical centres of Europe, as she has reached the best that the Mexican masters can provide. Mrs. Elizabeth Penwick, of Essex, England, is 105 years old, has never seen a "movie" or had her photograph taken. -On Christmas day she said, "I live because I have God's blessing." She advises people to observe their spiritual duties, have regular habits, and avoid worry and tobacco. About 3,000 women composed a strike-mob during the coal miners' strike in Kansas in December. Miss Alice Robertson, woman member of Congress, in a speech in the House, denounced the Kansas women's actions as "a disgrace and an insult to the womanhood of America." Mrs. T. P. O'Kelly, wife of Capt. O'Kelly, superintendent of the marine department of the Hudson Bay Company, returned from Alaska on Christmas day. She was the first white woman ever seen by the Eskimos at Coronation Bay, northern British Columbia.. CHEWING GUM AND SCHOOLS "The records show that the people of this country pay out more money annually for chewing gum than for schools, and that there are quite a number of fathers who will display more bad temper over buying their child a 50-cent arithmetic for a year's use than over a week's supply of tobacco at twice that sum.'—Georgia State Superintendent of Schools. CORRECTION In the sketch of Jerusha Walker Blanchard, written by Nellie Story Bean in the January Magazine, through an error, it was stated that Julia Murdock was married to her brother, John R. Murdock. EDITORIAL Lntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS -: -. - President MRS. LUCY JANE BRIMHALL KNIGHT: - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBINSON - cond Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN. Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Em Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A, F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lalene Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith iss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia Childs Mrs. Barbara Howel Richards Miss Lillian Cameron rs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -: - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - - - - - -. -. Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager. - - -. - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 22, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol IX FEBRUARY, 1922 - No.2 JEALOUSY. Am I jealous? If I am, what is my motive? Of whom am I jealous? What is the cause of jealousy, the extent? What is its cure? Has it any value in our lives? ' We are told by the ubiquitous dictionary that jealousy "is an apprehension of another's superiority to ourselves,' While one who is jealous is "uneasy through fear of, or on account of preference given to another, fearful of the success of a rival, apprehensive of rivalry, suspiciously vigilant." There is another definition of which we should not lose sight. Jealousy as used sometimes in the scriptures has a large meaning and is compounded of righteous qualities.; If, as we are told, the cause of jealousy roots in our inferiority, then indeed should we rid ourselves, first of the inferiority, and second, of the envious feeling begotten thereby. It is sufficient for me if I can fill my Own pint measure, without fretting for one moment concerning the quart measure of my neighbor, some of my material with which to fill his own. He may rob me of my opportunities, but he cannot dispossess me of my character. He may disqualify me for place or position through his opposition or through evil gossip; but he is powerless to hinder my development into becoming his equal or the equal of anyone living; that is: equal in character. We are never equal in opportunities, in gifts, nor in worldly position, but we are all equal before the Lord. EDITORIAL 107 Jealousy is a very subtle and insidious poison. How may I know if I am jealous? First, I may examine myself and my motives; if I disagree with my neighbor, and if I express an opinion about him which would prevent him from achieving any certain success, or position, what is my motive? Am I more interested in the cause which would be helped or hindered through his service, or is there some hidden source of dislike in me toward him because he is my superior in worldly advantage, or in inherited or acquired gifts or the superior of some one dear to me? That. Soul-searching was a daily practice with the Puritans and Pilgrims. It is a daily practice with conscientious Latter-day Saints in any age. If my neighbor receives gifts, admiration or opportunity, how shall I greet him, and in what way shall I speak of the matter to my friends? If he is worthy of them all, or measurably so, is it not the part of honesty and candor to acknowledge it gracefully and cordially to him and to my associates? If for any reason I am truly convinced that he is unworthy of the accredited honor, or place, or success, I may be justified, if my motive is sincere, in a natural tendency to express that opinion frankly; for society has no protection, as a whole, against evil-minded persons except the opinions voiced in what we usually call "gossip." Newspapers are merely bureaus of exchange, for the gossip of the world, and no more stringent check can be placed upon the ordinary sneak or coward than vociferous critical public opinion. Gossip has reformed many people. It depends upon the motive and the truthfulness with which the gossip is uttered. If I am innocent of wrong-doing, the jealousy of my neighbor will hinder me but temporarily; but if I am sensitively organized, envious gossip will either stimulate me to more strenuous activity or finally crush out of my soul all ambition and even destroy health or life itself. The Lord will protect the innocent and guiltless sooner or later; but who is altogether guiltless and who is altogether innocent? Life and society are made up of extremely complex factors. St. John said that anyone who declared himself without sin deceived himself, and the truth was not in him. Christ was the only example of perfection who has lived upon this earth. We are told in the scriptures that God is a jealous God; yet that jealousy consists in a yearning desire that men shall not go after other gods, worshiping where darkness and evil set up false laws, false standards, pagan gods. In this way the leaders of our Church may well be jealous, lest we as individuals, or as a people, turn aside from truth and righteousness, debasing our minds with love of vain things and jealousy of those who possess more than we do. So also may parents and friends be jealous 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of our welfare and rightly criticize us, at right times and to proper people. The motive and the cause justifies right jealousy.; Tonight you and I should search our hearts for any core of bitterness and jealousy which may root within us. If we find it we may dislodge it through faith, prayer and the love of Christ which is the love of our neighbor. We shall rejoice in this great year that is now come freshly to us in all the success and power which may come to our friends, our neighbors and to the people of God everywhere. NOTICE. There are still some vacancies in the March class for regular nurse students at the L. D.: S. Hospital. Any one interested in the three-year course beginning at that time will write at once to Superintendent of L. D. S. Hospital. NOTE Will the author of "Reforming Mother," and Mrs. Edith Anna Johnson, communicate with the editor of the Magazine immediately? BOOK NOTICES Jen of the Marshes—ty John Frederic Herbin—Devoid of laborious descriptions that so often render a novel tedious and make the book heavy upon the hands of the reader, Jen of the Marshes is one of the liveliest novels that have appeared in recent times. The action takes place in romantic Acadia where was enacted the tragedy of the deportation in 1755. But Jen of the Marshes is not a novel about those far-off days; it is thoroughly modern, and its plot shows that our present days can be as deeply interesting and romantic as the goed old days our great-grandfathers enjoyed. Once every few years there comes a book of poetry that marks the entrance of a new poet to the charmed circle of those whose work is likely to have a permanent place in the literature of our race. Such a book must have the beauty and the substance that is not of any particular generation, but of all time. Within its pages the true lover of literature of any age must be able to meet with his kindred on a common ground. A claim that a book is of these favored few should be made with care, and it is in no light spirit but with a sincere conviction that "The Beggar's Vision" is such a book that it is offered by its publishers, Cornhill Pub. Co., Boston, Mass. Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First WEEK IN APRIL) PRAYERS OF REFERENCE Prayers of scriptural reference, i. ¢., those only referred to in scripture, become valuable when considered from the following points of view: First, the condition and circumstances under which they were written; second, the evident objective; third, the effect or result of the prayer. Even a list of prayers of reference would be too long to insert in this lesson; it will, therefore, be necessary to confine ourselves mainly to one example. The most memorable in the group of prayers of referenece is the first prayer of the first pair; the first soul's sincere desire uttered outside of Eden; the first approach of humanity toward Divinity; the beginning of correspondence between God and man; the first wireless between earth and heaven; the first conscious approach of man's helplessness that brought down God's helpfulness. Reference has been made to the first of all earthly petitions in previous lessons, both in statement and in problem, but nc attempt has been made toward any specific study of it. CIRCUMSTANCES AND CONDITIONS Adam and Eve, through circumstances that transpired in the garden, had become so predominatingly physical that the presence of their Father was unbearable: they fled from him in the garden, and he, out of necessity and with infinite mercy, banished them from Eden to where there would be a correspondence between their spiritual condition and their physical surrounding, and no danger of eternal existence without eternal progress, though prematurely taking of the Tree of Life. They were outcasts from Eden, and, so far as they knew, were dismissed not only from the presence of the Lord, but fromr his care, guardianship and interest. But unknown to them, his watchcare, solicitude and parental love never ceased to be over them. He had decreed that before the sentence of individual death which Adam faced that the race might live, was carried out, 110.—C««. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE angels should visit the fugitives-——Doctrine and Covenants, 29: 41 to 44. Alone, so far as they knew, the first pair battled with the elements, obeyed the first commandment of Eden with no knowiedge of a hereafter. No word to waken eternal hope, no pull te the beyond, of which they were conscious, except the yearning for immortality. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 5: 2-3.) As age crept on more intense grew the yearning within, stronger and stronger came the promptings from without, until outside of the Garden of Eden Adam and Eve offered the first prayer. GREAT OBJECTIVES What were the chief objectives of the first' petition? Was it wealth? They owned the earth. Was it health? Sickness seemed to have been unknown to them. Was it that eternal life knowledge, the way back to God, that they needed? That God lived they knew, but that he was reachable they did not know. They called for a renewal of speaking term acquaintance with him. It was the confident cry of the earth child to the heavenly Father, it was the universal cry, "What wouldst thou?" There were evidently two great objectives in this cry to heaven: Frist, to get the ear of the Lord; second, the obtaining of information through an answer to the question of the ages: "Lord, what shall we do?" A cry exemplified in the call of Saul at his conversion. (Acts 9:6.) The cry on the day of Pentecost. (Acts 2:27.) The appeal to the Lord as to what he would have us do to become his financial partners. (Doctrine and Covenants, Heading, Section 119.) RESULTS Aside from contemplating this prayer, as the initial factor in the opening of the first dispensation of the gospel, we shall be limited to a consideration of the results that directly affected Adam and Eve, the parents of the race. The consideration of the remote results affecting the human family would require volumes. THE FIRST SERIES OF RESULTS The first series of results from the first prayer includes: First, finding the voice of the Lord; (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses 5:4;) second, receiving commandments; third, opportunity for exercise in the obedience of confidence, THE SECOND SERIES OF RESULTS The second series of results directly affecting the petitioner= covers: First, the sending of a messenger from heaven; second. The question that tested the simple faith of our first parents: GUIDE LESSONS dil third, the explanation of the symbolic sacrifice; fourth, the revelation of the doctrine of repentance; fifth, the first direct command to pray in the name of Christ; sixth, the individual testimony of the truth of the gospel; seventh, the first gift of prophecy tc man; eighth, the comprehension of the atonement as a plan for God to prove his love for man, and win man's love for God, tc the obtaining of eternal life; ninth, such a keen appreciation of the Lord's wisdom and power in the making of the Fall a means oi exaltation that they rejoiced in the choice they made in Eden, which, however, to this day would have been a source of regret had the Lord not brought good out of it. If it was a "fall upward,' man had no part in making it so. The fall left man with paradise lost, but by the grace of God it became a way to paradise regained. Tenth, the sacred responsibility of teachin: their children the gospel; eleventh, the giving of Adam and Eve a new birth by which he became a free agency son of God and she became a free agency daughter of God. (Pearl of Great Price, = Book of Moses, 5:7-12 and 6:57-68. Doctrine and Covenants 25:1.) Thus beginning with the unrecorded first prayer came ar evolution of the first couple, from babes in the woods, figuratevely speaking, to patriarch and matron, priest and priestess, prophe and prophetess, son and daughter of God. In this respect it will be well to remember that but for the revelation given through the Prophet Joseph, the world would be without direct knowledg of the standing of man and woman in the domestic circle of divinity; twelth, the negative result was the arousing of Satan which sincere prayer always does. We can see that this first prayer of the race may fittingly be called a dispensational prayer, and the first prayer of Joseph Smith comes also in this class. The Sacred Grove is the cherished spot where this latter petition was presented, and Adam-ondiAhman is the place where he blessed his children and wher ha will sit to judge mankind. One Hundred Years of Mormonism, pp. 217 and 219; L. D. S. Hymn Book p. 277; History of the Church, vol II, pp. 354-365; Doctrine and Covenants, section 107 verse 53, and section 116. Is it unreasonable to believe that Adam and Eve offered their first prayer on or near this spot? During one of our general conferences, in Salt Lake City: after the dismissal of an afternoon session, a stranger who was watching the throngs of people com from the tabernacle grounds, said to a news boy, 'What is this all about? Where have these people all come from? Where are they going to? I have never seen the like in any city of this size." "Oh," said the boy, "don't 112 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE you know? This has all come from one little prayer, by one little boy. Buy a paper, please." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1, From what three standpoints may one profitably stud a prayer of scriptural reference? 2. Show that eternal life in their fallen state would havc been a case of everlasting unhappiness to Adam and Eve. 3. What were the two great objectives of the first prayer? 4, What were the first two commandments resulting from the first prayer? 5. Show that we can not get along in every-day life withou the obedience of confidence. 6. In what sense is baptism a free agency birth? 7. Prove from the scriptures that women may become: the daughters of God. 8. Why may the first prayer of Adam and Eve and the first prayer of Joseph Smith be called dispensational prayers? 9. Where is Adam-ondi-Ahman located, and how is it probably related to the first prayer? 10. What hymn was sting at Adam-ondi-Ahman? LESSON II. Work and Business (Second Week in April) LESSON ITI Literature (Third Week in April) In our foreword for this year, we promised a discussion of some of the leading hymns of Christendom. This lesson will be devoted to "Lead, Kindly Light," by John Henry Newman. The hymn is not found in the L. D. S. Hymn book, but is commonly found in the compilations of well known hymns of other Christian religionists. A period of religious storm and stress in Great Britain is marked by the years 1853 to 1857. The spirit of controversy waxed warm in Oxford University, where John Henry Newman. The noted English essayist, was located. Many of the thinking GUIDE LESSONS. © 113 men of the day were greatly disturbed because of the new science. Darwin's Origin of Species and his Descent of Man had. Made religionists feel that there was something radically wrong in the faith of their fathers, hence, there was a tendency to discard it Yet another group deplored the disposition on the part of the Protestants to adjust to science, and for that reason sought refuge in the Roman Catholic church. This movement at Oxford, 1828, greatly upset a group of literary men. Matthew Arnold grew pessimistic; so deeply impregnated are his poems with the spirit of pessimism that -he is known as the poet of pessimism. Arthur Hugh Clough grew despondent over the matter and suicided, while John Henry Newman finally sought refuge in the mother church. It was during the time of this great soul struggle that Newman wrote, 1833, "Lead, Kindly Light." This justly admired hymn was born in an agony of indecision, when its author was groping for the light. Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom, Lead thou me on; The night is dark, and I am far from home; Lead thou me on. Keep thou my feet: I do not ask to see The distant scene; one step enough for me." The first and second lines ask for God-to lead in this hour of spiritual confusion. Note the aptness of the words that convey the thought of spiritual uncertainty and darkness. "Lead. Kindly Light, amid the circling gloom," and "the night i: dark, and I am far from home." And again the same thought in other words, "keep thou my feet: I do not ask to see the dis'ant scene, one step enough for me." Mr. Newman has voiced a great spiritual truth, that it were well to accept and magnify a little truth and wait for the greater light than tc reject the little truth because it can not be seen in all its bearings and entirely. "T was not ever thus, nor prayed that thou Shouldst lead me on; I loved to choose and see my path, but now Lead thou me on. I loved the garish day, and spite of fears Pride ruled my will: remember not past years!" In the second stanza we have recognition on the part of the suppliant that those that would be led by the Lord must approach him in a spirit of humility. Most of the stanza is made up of a confession that he had not always been willing 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that God should lead. He had felt as most people have undoubtedly felt, some time or other in their lives, that they would like to do a little of the leading themselves. "So long thy power has blest me, sure it still Will lead me on, O'er moor and fen, or crag and torrent, Till the night is gone. And with the morn those angel faces smile, Which I have loved long since and lost awhile. The last stanza is a stanza of faith. The poet feels there may be many severe trials to encounter before he shall see the light again, but there is within his soul an assurance that light wil be given, and that he will soon see the angel faces with thei smiles. It would seem that the poet intends that angel faces shall be taken as synonymous with heaven, as heaven is the abode of the angels, and the place from whence comes light and knowledge. The Oxford movement, 1828, that led to such confusion anc distress among a group of highly gifted men of letters, a well as others, surely must lead the Latter-day Saints to think seriously, for it was not a great many years before (1820) that the boy prophet, nothing doubting, had gone into the wood to pray and had asked the Father, in the simplicity of his heart, which of all the sects was right. The confusion abiding in his mind had been dispelled by a glorious vision in which appeared the Father and the Son. Somehow or other these men of learning did not have the power to unlock the heavens and receive answers to the questions that vexed both heart and brain; consequently there followed a series of soul tragedies.' John Henry Newman wandered back into the Roman Catholic church, after having been traditionated in the thought that the Church had departed from paths of truth and righteousness. Matthew Arnold constantly spoke of something that had gone, recognized the loss of a spiritual entity, without which man is sorely conditioned,. And sought soul's solace in the production of a mass of poetry so pessimistic that it is revolting to many who attempt to read it, despite its rather classic finish. Arthur Hugh Clough could see no hope, and died in doubt. Surely the scriptural statement found fulfilment, "and the wisdom of the wise shall perish." During this time, 1840, Parley P. Pratt was writing: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee, Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled! The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. GUIDE LESSONS 115 The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine; The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." "Lead, Kindly Light" is one of the literary gems of Christian hymnology. The religious passion or feeling is at high water mark, while the imagery is apt and most delicate. This hymn, sung at President William McKinley's funeral service, is said to have been his favorite hymn. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Have the hymn read in its entirety to the class. Have it sung sometime during the meeting. ' 2. Is the word "Light" in the title used in a literal or figurative sense? 3. Select the words and phrases of the hymn that are indicative of mental struggle. 4, The terms "Church of England," "Established church "Anglican church," and "Episcopal church" are terms used to identify the state church in England. Which. Terms are most commonly used in America? Have some English convert or descendant of some English convert tell the class which terms ar most commonly used in England. 4, What church do people have in mind when they speak cf the mother church? 6. Prove from the experience of these men that "the wisdom and the wise shall perish." 7. How did Joseph Smith obtain his knowledge concerning God and spiritual things? LESSON IV Social Service. (FourtH WEEK IN APRIL) HEALTH EDUCATION AND THE HOME In Lesson III we discussed the significance of health to husband and father, wife and mother. In the present lesson we shall consider the problems of health education, or the problem of health as it concerns the prospective husbands and fathers, wives and mothers. Obviously the task of convincing youth of the significance of conserving their physical vitality and developing healthy and strong bodies is quite as important as that of educating ourselves as parents in this matter, and certainly more difficult. 116 » RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WHY YOUTH SHOULD BE TAUGHT PRINCIPLES OF HEALTH It may not be a pleasant thing for a father to teach his son or for the mother to teach her daughter the serious responsibilities and demands which the marriage relation will impose upon them. As parents we enjoy presenting to our young people only the bright side of married life. And it is very desirable that youth contemplate a' bright and glorious future. But they should, at the present time, know the conditions which make for a successful and happy home. Work is not unpleasant; it is enjoyed by the healthy man and woman; but to the person of poor health, it is drudgery. It may seem cruel for the mother to inform her daughter, who may be yet only in her teens or early twenties, of the problems before her, but it is far less cruel to do this thto permit her to live a life carelessly or ignorantly which will lesson her vitality—through improper dress, lack of sleep, and other habits common to young women of this period of life. The duties of a wife and mother are beautiful and glorious, but they become so only to the woman who is strong enough to carrv the responsibilities which that life imposes. It is far better for young people to spend a few moments now and then with their parents in serious conversation on these matters than that they should spend hours later in life rehearsing their mistakes. It is quite natural for all of us to assume, when every thing appears to run smoothly, that all is well. We do not want to anticipate evil. We let the future care for its own troubles. Too often our attention is aroused only when it is too late. PHYSICAL CONSEQUENCES OF SIN At the present time considerable interest has been aroused as a result of the startling fact presented to us by the government concerning the extent of the ravages of the venereal diseases. We are informed that during one year, 1919, there were more human beings injured and killed from venereal diseases than the United States lost during the entire war in France. When we realize that a large proportion of these who are thus made to suffer are innocent victims, it seems doubly important that we take every precaution to protect our homes. One of the best ways to do this is to inform our sons and daughters of the nature and consequences of these diseases. We do not want our innocent daughters to become sterile, our grand-children to be destroyed before or at birth, or to be born blind and helpless. To avoid these things, we must candidly inform our sons and daughters of the danger of intimate and free associations with men and women whose lives and character they know very little about. We do not exaggerate when we say that more suffering GUIDE LESSONS — 117 after marriage results from ignorance, carelessness, and sin before mariage than from any other cause. THE BLESSINGS FOLLOWING A NORMAL LIFE But health education for home has a positive as well as a negative side. Youth should be taught the evil consequences of carelessness and sin, but they should also be taught the posi'ive values that come from sensible living and moral conduct We have already called attention to a number of good things which come to a healthy family, but besides these there are two blessings not frequently discussed, which are nevertheless very real and important. They are attractiveness and cheerfulness. Whatever else love between husband and wife rests upon, it is quite certain that physical attractiveness counts for something. A woman is more attractive to a man when she enjoys the bloom ef health than when she does not. On the other hand, a strong. Healthy man is certainly more attractive to a woman than is > physical weakling. Although attractiveness is not the only condition of love, it is one of the conditions, and one of sufficient importance to deserve a reasonable share of sensible consideration. Too often young people spend considerable time and money {rying to improve their personal appearance when after all what many of them need is a little more sleep, more wholesome food, and the vigor, alertness, and charm that good health brings. Not only does good health bring beauty and attractiveness, so essential in the relationship between husband and wife, but it carries stinshine and cheerfulness with it. It is very difficult for one whose health is poor to keep in good spirits. If the leaders of the home, those who direct in all its many activities. Are not enioying good health, they are ustially not cheerful, they naturally do not radiate happiness but a spirit of despondency: and since they are the most influential members of the family group, others are sure to partake to a degree, at least, of that snirit. But we must not be unmindful, however, of the fact that there are personalities with sufficient strength and character to rdiate the spirit of love and cheer even when in phvsical distress. The history of the homes of manv Latter-day Saints reveal numerous characters of this sort. But the exception does not disprove the general rule that with good health comes cheerfulress and with ill-health comes despondency. Good health goes a long way toward making home a desirable place to be. SUMMARY OF PRINCIPLES OF HEALTH Our limited space does not permit of detailed discussion on the question of how health may be preserved, but the following 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE suggestions may serve our purpose: (1) Every member of the family, be he young or old, should be taught to respect his body— the tabernacle of his spirit. He should be taught the "Word of Wisdom" in its deepest significance. (2) During adolescence, the changing period of life, youth should receive from his parents a frank and honest explanation of the meaning and significance of the reproductive organs. The physical consequence of vice and immorality should be made clear in the minds of maturing youth. (3) The importance of wholesome food, proper hours of sleep, and recreation, as well as of habits of cleanliness, should be impressed upon the minds of youth. (4) Lectures, as well as articles and books on health subjects are now within the reach of the people of practically every community, and earnest effort should, therefore, be made to take advantage of these opportunities for health education. It would be a splendid thing to set apart an evening a week for one year as a family period for health study. If these simple suggestions should be observed, it would not be long before results would manifest themselves, first in better health, and secondly, in the things that follow good health— success, contentment, happiness. QUESTIONS 1. What conditions do you think render a man and a woman unfit for marriage? 2. What are some of the physical consequences of a sexual immoral life? What is the effect upon the home? 3. Why is the period between fourteen and twenty-five so important from the standpoint of health instruction? 4, Give examples of common habits among youth which tend to weaken their physical constitutions and thus render them less fit to become parents? 5. What constructive criticism can you give the high schools that will tend toward better health among our adolescent girls? 6. Does the fact that marriage and parenthood require constant work make such. Relations less desirable? What might we expect would be the results if these heavy responsibilities. And demands for work did not accompany married life? TOPIC FOR TEACHERS April—Organization of the Church. I. Most perfect organization in the world. II. Responsibility of its entire membership. To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine man- 'agement and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide' publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appcar on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your Expiration! Monday, Jan. 30th at "THE PARIS" BEGINNING SEMI-ANNUAL DISCOUNT SALE Entire Stock 25 to 50 percent. See Sunday Tribune. Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME—36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in al! Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid ' Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. ' Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City It is our helpfulness and willingness in assuming the responsibility for the succcess of every meal, that "™* DICKINSON'S the Household Word in hundreds of happy homes Quality—Cleanliness—Accuracy—Dependability CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES SERVICE PRESS Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044, 228 West Broadway. Y: Salt Lake City Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Boys' School SHOES) A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. - Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likenese"—the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861 Lumiere Studio 6 Main St., Salt Lake 680 East 2nd South Street Hyland 60 Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it? Dependable The Deseret Hews Progressive The Utah State National Bank Tie officers ure always glad to meet customers and discuss business plane with thera. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. CuHagtes W. Nisrey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. Mchiwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Atvim C. Strona, Assistant Cashier. Joun W.! Ames, Asst. Cashier. An Appropriate gift A Bound Volume of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1318, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bouad 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 lSc Extra for Postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, City, Utah. THHERAUEER OU EE Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE WAS. 3223.:. P. O. BOX 17/3 ~ SALT LAKE Ci7Y HYVYIN MAYT ALAYDOUS BAI TTe Was. 912 our = | A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service a 6 22. S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral Directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street. | Was. 912 | S. M. TAYLOR, President A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. 