[Vol14 | August 1927 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Historical Events in the Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman]
Historical Events in the Relief Society Conference Address by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary I have decided to make a few observations this afternoon upon the organization, growth, and work, of the great Relief Society, which we represent.

In contemplating this subject we find much that is interesting and entertaining, we find much that is inspiring and encouraging, we find much that is faith-promoting.

We are interested in all the details connected with the early organization of the Society; in the historical development; and in the various phases of work accomplished.

We are inspired by the labors of the workers of the past, and by what has been done, and we are encouraged.

To put forth renewed effort for future progress.

Our faith is strengthened by the lives, the heroism and the vision of those who have preceded us; by their willingness to sacrifice for principle; by the struggle they put forth in the interest of their ideals; by their faith in the gospel itself as well as their faith in the Society.

Our testimony is strengthened by their testimony.

We love to recount the story of the organization which occurred so long ago, away back on March 17, 1842, in the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, when the Church itself was only six years old.

We love to speak of the beginning of the organization, and to go over the early instructions, which formed a foundation for the subsequent work.

Sarah M.. Kimball, one of the charter members of the organization, and later one of the foremost workers in the organization in the state of Utah, in speaking of the beginning, said: "A few of us met together in my parlor in Nauvoo.

We had a desire for an organization of our own, and a desire to help' with the building of the temple.

We had some by-laws written out by Eliza R. Snow, and we took them to President Joseph Smith, who said he would be glad to have the opportunity of organizing the women." In fact he told them that he had been considering the matter of an organization-for them for some time, and that his plans were much greater than anything they had in mind at that time.

It was not long after this that a group of women was invited by the Prophet, to meet in the upper room of the old Masonic Hall, where the organization took place, with Emma Smith as president; Sarah M. Cleveland, first counselor; Elizabeth Ann Whitney, second counselor; Eliza R. Snow, Gen. Eral Secretary; Elvira Coles, treasurer.

President Smith visited the Society often, and gave instruction from time to time on the objects and aims of the organization, and on the duties of the members. 
 Following are excerpts from his instructions: "The meeting was addressed by President Joseph Smith, to illustrate the objects of the Society—that the Society of sisters might provoke the brethren to good work in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and save the elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties, etc., in their public teachings." At later meetings the Prophet gave additional instructions as follows: 'This charitable Society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feeling of charity.

You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms.

If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious.

If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. * * * And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time.

This is the beginning of better days to this Society. * * * Let your labors be confined mostly to those around you in your own circle.

As far as knowledge is concerned it may extend to all the world, but your administrations should be confined to the circle of your immediate acquaintances, and more especially to the members of the Society. * * * You should be armed always with mercy.

If you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another. * * * Be pure in heart. * * * By union of feeling, we obtain power with God." President Smith urged the women to work in a cooperative manner together, and to respect and hold sacred the confidences of one another.

You will all remember that the organization started with eighteen members, which are known as the charter members of the Relief Society.

During the first year the membership reached 1,179; 162 members were received during the second year, making the total at the end of two years, when the work was temporarily suspended, of 2,341. The growth was'so great that at the end of the first year it was thought necessary to divide the organization, as there was no room at the disposal of the women which would hold the members.

The division was made to conform to the four city wards of Nauvoo, and the meetings of the wards were held in rotation thereafter, but were all presided over by the same group of officers.

Eighteen meetings were held the first year (March 17 to September 28, 1842), and sixteen meetings the second year (June 16, 1843 to March 16, 1844). The last meeting in Nauvoo was held on March 16, 1844. The operations of the Relief Society were suspended in 1844, due to the various calamities which befell the Saints in connection, HISTORICAL EVENTS IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY 391 with the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his brother Hyrum, which occurred June 27, 1844. And, due to the exodus from Nauvoo to Salt Lake City, and the early struggles in Utah, ten years elapsed without any activity on the part of the organization.

The women, however, never lost sight of the institution nor the promises made to them by the prophet.

In 1853, a beginning was made when a group of women met in the old Social Hall, and formed a Society which was the forerunner of the ward organizations in Utah.

In 1854 organizations were formed in the First, Second, Seventh and Sixteenth wards, with an Indian branch in the Thirteenth ward.

In 1855 organizations were formed in the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth wards in Salt Lake City, and the First ward in Ogden.

In 1856, an organization was formed in the Third ward in Salt Lake City; in 1857, in the Sixth and Eleventh wards Salt Lake City and in Provo; in 1858, in Nephi.

There were no complete reports of the work, however, until 1857. In 1858, on account of the move south, when Johnston's Army came to Utah, the work was suspended and it was only when order was restored that permanent organizations were formed.

In 1866, President Brigham Young recommended organizations in all the wards and branches, and gave Eliza R. Snow the mission of assisting the bishops in the great work.
