[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 580 | Special Feature | Let's Speak Correctly Myrtle | E. Henderson]
Lished by the aper C P and Con Allow frozen foods to thaw in tainer Instit te he refrigerator 1, Possible, B A Cause reezing t+ n Lats Speak Correctly Myrtle E. Henderson, M. S. WeEnglish is not spoken in America today! That is what I heard a comedian on television Let us see if there isn't a grain of truth in the statement. The mistakes made on television and radio, to say nothing of those made by people in too many homes, to be convinced that there is a little ground for such an indictment. We can overcome our errors if only we will listen to ourselves and make the necessary effort. Are you ever tripped up by the tense (time) of a verb or overcome by a participle? Some of these forms seem to be especially troublesome. 'Test yourself on these tenses: Which would you use? 1. Will you (lie, lay) down? 2.1 (lay, laid, lied) down for an hour. 3 She had (laid, lain) in bed all day. 4. Please (lay, lie) the book on the' table. Lay means to place something, and is always followed by an object. Lie means to rest, and has no object. Now the thing that confuses many people is that lay is also the past tense of lie. The past perfect tense denotes that the action of the verb was completed at some definite point in the past. A Jook at these verb forms may help. Present Past Tense Past Perfect Participle lie lay had lain lying lay laid had laid laying So the first sentence would use 580 lie. It is an intransitive verb and has no object. The second sentence would use lay because it is the past tense of the verb lie and has no object. In sentence number three, we find the past perfect tense, because there is a helping verb had and the action was completed in the past. In the fourth sentence, the verb has an object, and is in the present tense so lay is the form to use. Shall we use the participles in sentences? 1. The men are laying the carpet. 2. Mother is lying down. Here again we have the transitive verb form are laying and the object is carpet. In number two, is lying is an intransitive verb and requires no object. Lying is also the participle form of the verb lie, which means to rest. Pronouns get us into trouble when they do not agree with their antecedents (the word to which the pronoun refers). We must remember that a pronoun must agree with its antecedent in person, number, and gender. Look at these sentences: 1. Each girl should do her own work (not their). Girl is the antecedent of her, and is single, therefore her should be used instead of their. Girl is in the third person (the one spoken about), and feminine gender—two other reasons why her should be used. 9. Every man should pay his share. Now, can you find the pronoun and its antecedent? Can you give the reasons why the pronoun his is the correct one to use? Such words as every, everyone, everybody, anybody, nobody, each, either, neither, and no one are singular in number. When they are used in a sentence the verb must be singular as: 1. Each of the boys was given a present: Each is the subject of the verb was given, and boys is the object of the preposition of. 2. Everyone is going to the picnic (not are). 3. Neither Mary nor Jane has called (not have). The use of double negatives in a sentence indicates uncultured speech. The words aren't, no, doesn't hardly, scarcely, and but, are the most commonly misused. They are all negative forms and should not be used together in the same sentence. The sense of a sentence with a double negative is often questionable, or just Opposite to that which the speaker intends. Now let's See if we can find out what is wrong with the following sentences: 3. I don't want no help. 4. We have hardly no bread. 5. He hasn't got no money. 6. He didn't learn nothing. Shall we change the sentences and use only one negative and see what a difference jt will make with the sense of the sentence? Use a positive word with the negative, thus: 1. He has scarcely any friends. 2. She can hardly walk since the accident. 3. I don't want any help. 4. We have hardly any bread. 5. He hasn't any money, or he has no money. The word got is entirely unnecessary in the sentence. 6. He didn't learn anything. Nothing is also a negative form and should not be used with didn't. LET'S SPEAK CORR ECTLY Are you guilty of these mistakes? Now let's have a look at words often misused or mispronounced. (def). Do not go to the liberry instead of to the library. Do not say li-lock instead of lilac. Remember that sego is the lily, and Sago is the pudding. Tamarisk is the shrub, and tamarack is a tree. A recipe is a list of ingredients of a mixture for cooking something, but a receipt is a written acknowledgment of a payment. If you give blood for a transfusion, you are a donor not a donner. Sometimes we hear people complaining that their arthurritis is bothering them. We might ask, "What is that?" If they say they are suffering from arthritis, we could be sure they are in pain, because there is such a disease. The word favorite has three syllables and should be pronounced fa vor it, not favrite. We often hear mistakes made on a group of words which are spelled with an 0, but are pronounced as if they were spelled with an a. For example: horse is often called harse, and hornet Should not be called harnet. Some verbs often used _ incorrectly are: raise a transitive verb requiring an object, meaning to lift. Please raise the window. Rise an intransitive verb meaning to ascend. Rise above your environment. Rear meaning to bring up, to train. He was reared in an orphanage. Let us try to use better language! 581 ~ a ac - - (paren eae ete ttgagtatis SE taal em « « > a ee "~. Ee = * 5 °.