[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 572 | Fiction | Letitia Keeps in Touch Dorothy | Clapp Robinson]
But there was so much more to Letitia Keeps In Touch Dorothy Clapp Robinson J%¥} @ The chimes on the depot tower were striking seven A. M. As Tish Haworth turned her car onto highway 30 N.; beside her sat her good friend, Althea Johnson. Between the front and back seats was a large picnic cooler filled, as Althea knew, with food. In a carton were jars of jam, jellies, and pickles. "Why all the food?' Althea asked. "Are we going to stay a month?" '"'We never travel where we are going without food and water. We have to cross a desert, and if we should happen to get stranded." "Stranded! Didn't you have your car checked?" Tish almost stopped the car, then she stepped on the accelerator. ""No—I forgot; but the tires are good and I have a spare." Althea said nothing for several minutes, then she asked, ""Who is this Jenny that we must cross a desert to find?" "IT told you. I read this article by a very prominent writer and she said we should keep in touch with our old friends because old 572 friendships were the richest and most rewarding."' "But why didn't you write first and see if she would like us to visit her?" "I don't know her address." "Then, how in the name of sense, do you expect to find her?" "I know where she used to live, and they aren't the type of people who move. I spent part of two different summers on their homestead. Jenny was an only child and her mother died when she was a child. I guess I was about the only close friend she ever had. After she was through school, she married a boy from the next farm. Then, when her father passed away, the husband took over both farms. They have lived there ever since." "How do you know? High school is a long time in the past. She could be anywhere by now." "Just trust me. I know what I am doing." "I'll have to now my driver's license has expired; but how far is it?" "A good half-day's drive, and we may have to stay at Gooding all night on our way back. That is, if Jenny doesn't insist we stay with her." Tish's tone implied that most certainly Jenny would insist—perhaps more than one night. Althea was a little dubious. She had been caught in one or two of Tish's enthusiastic adventures before. "Why all the food?" "Well—we can't tell just what circumstances we will find her in. As I remember, they have no fruit where they live." "Then the fried chicken and baked ham are for us and the jams are for her," Althea said. Tish disdained to answer. Iv was a glorious morning. The air, when Althea lowered her window, was warmly refreshing, but the wind promised heat. They were traveling parallel to mountains whose distant white caps touched a cobalt sky. For more than two hours they sped on paved highways, and they passed through several small towns; then they turned northeast and the pavement gave way to blacktop. Their watches said fifteen to eleven when they stopped for gas at what seemed to be civilization's last outpost. "Perhaps we should have something to eat now," Althea suggested, '"'we had an early breakfast." "Oh, no," Tish replied easily. "We haven't more than an hour and a half left. Jenny would not like our having eaten. She is the soul of hospitality." "But so many people are traveling these days, and there are always those who hunt free meals and free beds." LETITIA KEEPS IN TOUCH They passed through a farming section where the road followed farm boundaries. The roads were graveled, largely by nature; then the water was behind, and they were entering a section of open space, open except for huge upheavals of cracked and broken lava rock. White clouds floated high overhead and the mountains moved grudgingly nearer. As far as they could see there was nothing between them and_ the mountains but rocks and space. The road narrowed and swung perilously around curves. Lizards, sunning on rocks, ignored their passing; rabbits loped across the road in front of them; and huge magpies rose lazily out of the car's way but dropped quickly back to gorge on rabbits hit by speeding cars. Tish had slowed her speed. She had been over this road before, but the curves were sharper and the road narrower than they had been then. Occasionally a car jumped at them from behind a curve. The drivers whizzed by with the utmost unconcern for road conditions. "What a place to have a." Althea didn't finish the thought, for it suddenly materialized. Tish saw the jagged boulder lying in wait for them; she swerved sharply, but the right rear tire struck it hard. She fought to keep the car under control, but it was a little distance before she could stop it. Althea was out at once. A fatal whistling was coming from the rear tire. The whistling stopped when the road met the rim. Tish slid from her seat. Reluctantly, she surveyed the damage. "I can't understand why that 


 rock should have been inthe road. You would think some motorist would have moved it." "Never mind understanding that," Althea interrupted, "do you understand putting on a new wheel? After we get the old off, if we do?" "Well," Tish acknowledged, "'I have never done it, but I have watched the man at the garage, and it is easy." WartcHING it done was not on the level of doing it, they soon found out. By dint of much discussion and hard labor they managed to work the jack and drag the good tire from the trunk. Bolts would not turn and nothing gave but their strength. They were hot, tired, and disheveled. Althea searched through the cooler and brought a thermos and sandwiches. "If we have to stay here all night we won't go hungry." After quenching their thirst and eating an enormous amount of bread and fried chicken, they felt better but were not less hot. "There comes a car!" Tish jumped. "I caught a glimpse of it. Let's get this food out of sight or the driver will think we are just resting." As if they could rest in such a hot, dry place! A pickup with a covered bed came around a curve. The driver glanced briefly at them. The women looked at each other in despair, but the driver slowed and shot his car backward. "Having trouble?' He came around their car to confirm his knowledge, then, without asking whys or wherefores, he went to work. Tish hovered close, trying to help and assuring him she 574 would never again forget to have her tires checked. "We are going up the road to visit Jenny McHan." '"'Never heard of her.'' The man rose and dusted his hands. "Okay now." "Can I give you a sandwich?" Tish offered. She was anxious to show her gratitude. "Nope. Just had dinner." He started the motor, then leaned from the cab window. "Old women like you have no business traveling this road, even with good tires." With a spurt of dust and gravel, he was gone. "I'll forgive him for that ignorant remark," Tish pushed herself into place behind the wheel, "but he doesn't deserve it." "Did you notice what he said?" Althea asked, "he had just had his dinner so he could not have come far, yet he has never heard of Jenny McHan." THE car gathered speed. Althea turned her attention to the way ahead. An _ ever-moving wind chased tumbleweeds across the road and into the monotonous gray waste. The lack of color was broken only by the occasional patches of dark green pinions. The fleecy white clouds cast their moving shadows over the hills ahead. Suddenly a darkish cloud crept over them from behind and dropped a splattering of raindrops on the car and in the dust of the road. It passed as swiftly as it had come, its shadow running freely over the dry earth. "We turn at the foot of these hills," Tish explained, "'then we turn east and travel between them and the lava beds." They made the gradual turn, but when they were going east, Althea could see only three houses. One, far to the left, was nestled in a cove of the hill. On the right was a once-white house that now looked scorched and unlived in. Between the road and the bleak lava desert was a strip of farming land. Grain was in the head, and somewhere a mowing machine was clicking rhythmically. "No wonder your friend needs friends," Althea commented, wondering if their way lay around another hill. Bur a mile further on they approached the third house. From their first glimpse they knew it was different. It had been recently painted and a row of cottonwoods sheltered it on the west. Behind it were other buildings. "This is it." Tish turned into a long driveway. "Will she be surprised!" She hit three sharp toots on the horn. Nothing happened. Silence settled over them, broken only by the contented songs of many hens in the rear. Tish' tooted again. No response. ~ "I'm going in." She flung open the car door. There was no response to her repeated knocks. Tish tried the screen door. It opened and she went inside. A moment later she opened it again and called to Althea. 'Come in. She is here." Althea walked slowly toward the house. She paused to admire a bed of blue delphiniums and sweet peas. As she went through the doorway she caught an unobserved look at Jenny. In age she was comparable to them, but LETITIA KEEPS IN TOUCH she was small and her hair was a wispy white, and she was deeply tanned. Her expression was inscrutable. Tish was talking a streak and not waiting for answers. About the room were several exquisite oil paintings. "Jenny, this is my good friend, Althea Johnson. She came with me purposely to meet you, but since she sold her car she has no driver's license so I had to do all the driving." Jenny nodded to Althea and smiled, but her eyes were impersonal. Tish's flow of words went on, but somewhere in her story they started dribbling. The next ten minutes were a torture of embarrassment. Quite without realizing why or when, the two were in their car speeding homeward. They had traveled ten miles before either spoke. "TI can't understand." Tish's normally kind optimistic attitude was shattered; frustration, humillation, and anger made her voice harsh. "After coming all this way she didn't even ask us to sit down or offer us a bite to eat." She underscored the last by a series of blasts from the horn. Cows grazing along the low slope looked up. One started to run. "Years bring changes,'"' Althea tried to speak soothingly, 'and it was rude of us to pounce on her as we did, and she was flustered.". "She was flustered! What about me, after driving so far?" They made the returning curves in record time. Not only had they suffered frustration and disappointment, but they had missed their afternoon naps. The food in the cooler was not men- 


 tioned the whole afternoon. "Let's eat," Tish stated as they entered Gooding. She stopped at the first cafe they saw. Outside it looked only passable, but inside it was cool and clean. The waitress led them into a dining room that was everything one could expect. The waitress was a woman not under fifty and very neat and intelligent looking. When they were seated Tish asked her about a motel. She mentioned several, then added, "But you are late. The best ones are usually filled by this time. I will give you a suggestion when I come back." T HEY ordered and the waitress left. Althea's attention was caught by a painting on the wall she faced. "Look at it," she told Tish. Tish turned to see. She stared. It was a spot out of reality, but painted with a subtleness that spoke a message. From the east and the west, shoulders of white-topped mountains reached and touched toes with the dark forbidding lava beds. The home was surrounded. Safe. "Althea, that is the place we visited this afternoon." Just then the waitress returned. "You are lucky if you got in there. She is very famous, and very kind to let this cafe hang that painting. It is called 'Safe.' " "Famous," Tish breathed the word softly. "My friend Jenny McHan famous." "That isn't her name," the waitress pointed to the autograph which they could not see. "Her name is Jeanie Whitsom. Mrs. McHan lives here in town, when they are home. She and her husband come in to eat quite often." Tish turned a stunned face to 576 Althea. "I have to find out." The waitress directed her to a telephone. When she returned, her face was shining but her dinner had cooled. "T found her," she gloated. "She is coming right down and we are staying at her place tonight. In the morning we are going back to visit Jeanie Whitsom. Apparently, she and Jenny are bosom friends." When Jenny McHan entered the cafe she recognized Tish at once. She was a little taller than Jeanie Whitsom and everything about her spoke of money, but in a cultured way. "Won't Mrs. Whitsom resent us?" Althea asked, later, when their dinners were finished. "She was sort of—of." "She is stone deaf,"' Jenny explained, '"'and is pestered by publicity seekers. She reads my lips, so we have interesting conversations. She is not only an artist but a philosopher. She _ has definite ideas about life and people." When they reached the ranch house the next forenoon Jenny opened the door without knocking and the three went in. There was no one in the living room or the kitchen, so Jenny pushed through a door at the back. They stepped into an_ unbelievable room, a studio. The windows were placed so one could see the magnificent setting of the home. There were numerous paintings about, as there would be in any studio. Jenny and Jeanie greeted each other in understanding camaraderie. Jeanie understood her friend perfectly and answered Jenny's questions unhesitatingly, but in a monotone peculiar to some deaf people. Tish and Althea had trouble understanding her. They discussed the paintings, the one in process of completion, the visit of Tish and Althea. Then over Jenny's protests the painter became hostess and served them an appetizing lunch with most of the ingredients coming directly from her garden. Her son, she explained, had taken eggs to market. WHILE they were eating, Jeanie went back to the -studio and brought out a small brown envelope. Smiling mischievously she handed it to Althea. 'For the two of you, but look at them on your way home."' Thanking her, Althea put the envelope in her bag. When they were driving back, Tish asked, ''When she is so famous why does she live in such an out-of-the-way place?" "They came here because of her son's health, but now that he is well, neither wants to leave. She gets inspiration from the mountains and the lavas." They stayed that night with Jenny and they were nearly home the next day when Althea thought of the brown envelope. She took it from her bag and drew out two pencil sketches, one of her, one of Tish. Tish stopped the car while they examined them. They saw themselves as Jeanie had seen them the first day when they had walked unannounced into her house. Althea's calm, uncomplicated nature had been depicted in swift, sure strokes. It was some minutes before Tish could chuckle LETITIA KEEPS IN TOUCH at her likeness. It was alive with conflicting emotions. "YT didn't realize I was being selfish." "She doesn't show that. You are not selfish." "Yes, I was, and strong-headed. I tried to patronize Jenny and renew our acquaintance on my own terms. I was ready to give her something I thought she did not have. And I was going to be a real lady about it." Althea leaned toward Tish and studied the sketch she _ held. "There is love and kindness in your face, but," she spoke slowly, "there is a trace of impetuosity in it."" She was not sure that was the right word, but she did know Tish often rushed into things. "It was a fruitful trip anyway," she added as Tish started the car. "You found your friend and made another and I found two friends." Tish would not say anything more; but when they went through a gap and caught sight of their beloved valley, she turned the car to the side of the road and stopped. Then she started laughing. Althea was bewildered. "What is funny?" she asked. "You know," Tish answered when the explosion had passed, "IT don't believe that woman made anything but marks. I think she meant us to see ourselves, so when we saw those sketches we were eager to interpret them to know what she thought of us. To find the answers, we looked into our own hearts and created our own images. It could have been the trip rather than the sketches that compelled us to see ourselves as others see us."