[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 604 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
(To be continue Relief Society Activities pee PR ee oh et Bee hope] tif ger np es! D: a Smithfield Stake (Utah) Presents ''Mother's Sewing Machine'' May 1965 Front row, left to right: Gayleen and LaDawn Eppich; Elaine Goodey and son Tim; Nancy Smith; Marie Goodey; Annie Peterson, sewing instructor; Reta B. Spackman, stake work meeting leader. Back row, left to right: Evelyn M. Eppich; Ila Bradshaw; Carol Noble; Bonnie Gittens; Lorraine T. Snelgrove; Sybil Packer, who sang a clever song to correlate with the narration; Myrl E. Rich, a ward work counselor; Arlene T. Rigby; Kay Loosle; Peggy Salisbury; Tellma G. Thompson, Stake Work Counselor. Selena G. Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: "The stake leaders, recognizing the need for helping the sisters to learn better thrift practices, have encouraged sewing schools to be conducted in the wards under the direction of Sister Spackman, with Sister Peterson instructing the ward sewing instructors in the leadership meetings. The sisters participating in the classes have expressed joy and satisfaction in learning better methods of sewing. "Ward and stake leaders enjoyed an inspirational presentation 'Mother's Sewing Machine' in a stake leadership meeting in May. Many of the fashions which had been created as a result of the sewing classes were modeled by the ward instructors and others." All matenal subrutted far publicatien inp this deprartinent sland iw eet through the stake Relef Seciety presmients or mission Meliet Mewrely pres idents er supervisors. And should he addressed to the Pitituriat Teopuae trent, Relief Sesiety Magazine, 78 North Alain Salt Lake (st Lteh I Li ew regulations etvrrniv the submittal of Notes fT pom 1 nbs 1964 i "Charter Flight—Around the World in Eighty Minutes' April 9, 1965 Betsy Dingson, Brooklyn Branch, stands in the Scandinavian booth. She served meat balls and demonstrated knitting. Lyle Paine, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Through the coordinated effort of the New York Stake Relief Society board, directed by Elizabeth Merrill, stake work meeting leader, a very enjoyable and successful evening, attended by some 550 members, husbands, and friends of Relief Society was held. Invitations were sent to every sister in the stake to 'A Charter Flight—Around the World in Eighty Minutes.' "The guests were greeted by Relief Society sisters costumed as airline hostesses and were directed to departure gates on the lower level of the building, where they viewed eye-catching displays and demonstrations from ten countries arranged by the wards and branches. Tempting food, representative of the various countries, was served. 'In Flight' entertainment began at 8:30 in the evening in the cultural hall, where a program written and staged by Rae Rita Graham, Isobel Marker, and Barbara Scowcroft was presented. A fashion show followed, with Germaine d'Evegné and Barbara Scowcroft as commentators. Seventy women modeled their own creations of: hats and dresses for all occasions." 605 Mission Front row, t to right Irst Counselor. E€cond TOW, left to right: ara Cas Se; Francis Bowme: ack row, left to right: Illene Walder nn Welker, Preside t; En ez Elizabeth M. Baj » forme u ociety, MOPOnts: "<A full Relief i Organized Sisters, are additio nne Taylor is the new elief Societ J First Couns ack row, oria Barne elo Jean N elson. ¥; Rosa Le » left to right: r; Florence U tle left to right: Cle y; NOTEs FROM THE FIELD AUGUST 1965 South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Spring Fashion Show April 16, 1965 Front row, left to right: Lorri Chandler; Peggy Clements; Pamela Clements; Teresa Stosich. Second row, left to right: Eunice Pratt; Mary Lee Jones; Blanch Larsen; Verla Hickman, Work Counselor; Lola Albaugh, Education Counselor; Fern McClellan, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. Third row, left to right: Nita Palmer; Margaret Thomas; Gertrude Sorenson; Shawna Strobel. Sister McClellan reports: " 'Spring Fantasy,' a lovely fashion show and musical program, was presented April 16th. This was the culmination of a sewing program in which stake instruction was given in tailoring and basic sewing to the sisters. Classes were held weekly for six weeks. Over this period beautiful coats, suits, and dresses materialized for many mothers and daughters, and even suits for little boys. Stake instructors were Shawna Strobel, Gertrude Sorenson, and Mary Lee Jones. Over eighty models displayed the finished articles." Grant Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference April 18, 1965 Standing in the back row, at the left: Sylva Luck, chorister; and at the right: Wilma Packer, organist. Front row, seated, beginning eighth from the left: Afton C. Harrop, former first counselor; Miriam C. Sims, First Counselor: Vera B. Kocherhans, President; Hazel C. Mallory, Second Counselor; Hulda P. Young, General SecretaryTreasurer of Relief Society. Sister Kocherhans reports: "The Singing Mothers were outstanding in their performance, and we were very proud. We were pleased with the presence of Sister Young. She gave us much help, and we did appreciate her sweet spirit. It has been our privilege to furnish music twice this past year at stake conference. Ninety sisters participated at the April conference." South African Mission, First Local Relief Society Presidency Sustained Left to right: Dorothy Dell, Secretary-Treasurer; Muriel Tauté, Counselor; Eunice L. Snow; Rose Calteaux, Counselor; Anna M. De Wet, President; Valerie Snyman, music director. Verda L. Snow, Supervisor, South African Mission Relief Society, reports: "The South African Mission Relief Society made history recently. A local member was sustained as the president of the mission organization. Accepting the call was Anna M. De Wet of Johannesburg. Her counselors are Rose Calteaux and Muriel Tauté. History was made in that this is the first time since the missionaries landed in 1853 that the leadership of the mission Relief Society has been placed in the hands of local membership. The new president has already visited many of the branches, giving aid and encouragement to the sisters. The South African Mission covers an area the size of the continental United States. This means that the president will have many miles to traverse in visiting the sisters of the mission. The art of quilting will be introduced. Sister Eunice L. Snow demonstrated to the leaders of the Society 'the how of quilting,' and they are now ready to take the art to the branches." 


 Boise Stake (Idaho) ''Parade of Presidents' at Commemoration of the Organization of Relief Society March 8, 1965 Representing the nine general presidents of Relief Society since its organization, are the ward theology class leaders. Front row, left to right: Margaret Higley as Emma Smith; Mable Nokes as Clarissa S. Williams; Thelma Mitchell as Eliza R. Snow; Barbara Johns as Zina D. H. Young; LaVonne Hawkins as Bathsheba W. Smith; Jane Hipwell as Emmeline B. Wells. Back row, left to right: Betty Roberts as Louise Y. Robison; Carol R.