a Relief SOCISTY Magazine Volume 52 Number 8 August 1965 Lessons for November . A = = I The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: lilustrations: Stmmet Aff toenoon Christie Lund Coles Transparency by Josef Muench Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Boulder Mountain, Utah, Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 The Magazine brings me great comfort and peace of mind. I have typed the editorial 'Sufficient Unto the Day" (April 1965, by Marianne C. Sharp) and pasted it where I cannot fail to see and heed its excellent counsel. Most of the editorials and articles seem to be written just for me. What a blessing to be reminded of the right way in these days when so many media try to lead one astray. Wilma Jeanne Reckling Glenview, Illinois I always enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, and the June issue is no exception. How I enjoyed the article by Sister Fox ''Thoughts of a Mother During a Family Home Evening."' I have six, oh, so dear, and, oh, so different children, and home evening is indeed a time of inner prayer for me. Olga Milius Salt Lake City, Utah The March issue of the Magazine was wonderful, and we were delighted to see our own Lake District featured on the cover, and the lovely colored pictures of English scenes within. Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire England My husband and I! Read the article "'Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England,' by Claire W. Noall (March 1965) with great interest. Evidently, Sister Noall had studied much about the history of the Church in England. John and Helen Clegg Provo, Utah I fully enjoyed the recent article ''Latterday Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England," by Claire W. Noall, as well as the accompanying pictures of the beautiful landscape. Isaura B. Abegg Orem, Utah I appreciated ''Wind Valley,"' the first prize poem by Lenora Hansen in the January issue of the Magazine, because even though Amarillo is on the high plains instead of in a valley, the "always, everlasting wind'' blows here constantly. And for those of us with children, the poem "'Progeny'' (second prize poem by Pearle M. Olsen) couldn't help but make an impression. This poem was read by one of the sisters at our recent Relief Society birthday banquet. But even though I found the poems in January 1964 on the whole more readable, I must go back to 1963 for my favorite—''Quo Vadis," by Margery S. Stewart. Since this was a third place winner, my judgment evidently doesn't stand up with that of the experts, but the imagery of this poem was such that in reading it I could not escape a powerful emotion. Elien Gross Amarillo, Texas "'Grandson,"' the poem in the February Relief Society Magazine, composed by Christie Lund Coles, speaks the very thoughts for me. Both my daughter (the loving mother of my grandson) and I enjoyed the tender descriptive words of this excellent poem. Christie Lund Coles is a great writer. We appreciate her talent and wish to thank her. Dana S. Benson Malad City, Idaho May I just send my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. My sister and I always read the beautiful poetry first, then the lessons, and so on. Then we pass the Magazine on to our friends, sometimes the Magazines go around the world from us. As I write, there is a snow blizzard outside, so I thank God for my little home, a fire, and now the January Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. A. Welleycose and Mrs. M. Allott Sheffield, England the Relief Society Magazine NEE Ee 

Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. 
Editorial and Business Office: