[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 583 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Jackson) gave the Commencement address at the University of Utah, June 11, d an honorary degree. Miss Ward, Editor of the London i has frequent articles in author of F West at Bay. She was graduated from Oxford University, England, at the top of her class in politics, philosophy, and economics. She has the reputation of being among the best of contemporary speakers. Virginia Tanner, nationally famed Latter-day Saint children's dance director, presented forty young girls in a dance program at the University of California at in June. Doctor Alma Hawkins, head of the dance department, arranged for the appearence after seeing the children's work in San Francisco. Miss Tanner's students have danced in many parts of the United States, and at the World's Fair in Seattle. Representative Frances Bolton (Republican, Ohio) is eighty years old and still serving in the House of Representatives. In 1940, upon her husband's death, she completed his term of office and has served in Congress ever since. For some years she and her son Oliver were the only mother-son team in the House, but in the last election, Oliver was defeated while his mother came through with flying colors. To Germany in miles on German soil. She is the first British monarch to enter Germany since her grandfather King George Vv went eve of World War I. The purpose of the visit is seen as the setting aside of past hatreds. Linda Sistrunk, twenty, a coed at Utah State University, Logan, who comes from Fillmore, Millard County, Utah, was senior winner of the "Make It Yourself With Wool" national contest for 1965. She designed and made the costume she wore —a_ navy blue brushed wool coat over a white wool dress with tucks and button detailing. Her award is a trip to London, Paris, Nice, and Rome. Mrs. Gisella Gresser of New York City has been United States Women's chess champion for several years Now. Among the eminent American women novelists considered and evaluated in Pioneers and Caretakers, by Louis Auchincloss, author and critic (University of Minnesota Press), are: Sarah Orne Jewitt, Edith Wharton, Ellen Glasgow, Willa Cather, i Roberts, Katherine Anne Porter, Jean Stafford, Carson McCullers, and Mary McCarthy.