[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 598 | Home | Jennette T. Chamberlain Makes Plain and | Fancy Quilts]
Jennette T. Chamberlain Makes Plain and Fancy Quilts Jennette Thomas Chamberlain of Cedar Valley, Lehi Stake, Utah, is an expert in many varieties of handwork. Her acquaintance with needles and thread and crochet hooks began in her girlhood days when she lived in the mining towns of Sunshine, Mercur, and Cedar Valley. She has made hundreds of quilts for her children, grandchildren, friends, neighbors, and relatives. She has made patch quilts, pieced quilts, appliqued quilts, and has tied heavy quilts for the use of ranchers and hunters. She has made hundreds of embroidered, crocheted, and knitted articles. She learned in the early years of her marriage that the true homemaker can create beauty in any place, and under difficult circumstances. She prizes her flowers, indoors and out, and she raises a small vegetable garden each year. She takes a keen interest in genealogy, and has helped many of her friends to make accurate records and to do temple work. She loves Relief Society and has been a visiting teacher for fifty years. Mrs. Chamberlain is the mother of fourteen children, six of whom are living, She proudly counts her grandchildren at forty, with eighty-six great-grandchildren and twelve great-great-grandchildren, and seven step-grandchildren. 595 Shirley Thulin Chapter 4 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital, encourages Tom, a young paralyzed patient, to think of the things that he will be able to do, and to plan for his future. Joan is criticized for this attitude. The hospital administrator, Dr. Niles, appears to be a stern and withdrawn person, and Joan wonders what he is really like. Kathy, who is a niece of Dr. Niles, invites Joan to spend a week end at the family farm. ® Joan settled back in the leather seat and felt the ripple of excitement go through the atmosphere inside the bus. People going someplace, she thought, are interesting. She looked around her. Nearly everyone was_ smiling, even Kathy, though the feeling between her and Joan was still not what it had been the first day she had asked Joan to come home with her for the week end. "Your folks know I'm coming?" Joan asked. "Yes, I called them yesterday. I can just see Mom. She's been cooking and cleaning all day." "Oh, I hope she doesn't go to too much bother."' "Don't worry, she loves it. A week-end guest keeps her going all the rest of the month. Gives her something to think about." "I can't wait to meet her." "I hope you won't be bored. There isn't much to do just talk, and ride horses, maybe." "I']1 just love it. I've missed the farm." ""You've lived on a farm?" "Most of my life." "I'd never have known you're so so different from the farm folks I know." Kathy reddened a little, as if she wished she hadn't said that, and Joan decided to pretend not to notice. Mrs. Kirk was just about as Joan had pictured her. A lot like Kathy, only taller and with the same dark eyes. There were laugh wrinkles in her face and around her eyes, and she gave Kathy a big hus as though she hadn't seen her for months instead of only a week. Mr. Kirk was brown and tall. He was friendly, too. The drive from the station to their farm took only a few moments, and they didn't get a chance to say much. Joan felt as if she'd always known these people. "Where are the children?"