[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 620 | Lesson | Work Meeting — The Happiness That Comes From Work Winnifred | C. Jardine]
WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) The Happiness That Comes From Work For Second Meeting, November 1965 Objective: To observe the effect of work on one's happiness. @ Work—what a stable, strong word it is! And yet it is a word of many meanings. For some it is a therapy, to others a matter of pride or dedication, while still others regard it as drudgery. It is important to cultivate attitudes about work where joy and satisfaction come from work well done. A college student helping in a faculty home for her board and room used to scrub the floor with vehemence whenever things bothered her, and the family came to know it was a time to leave her alone. Scrubbing floors was a therapy for her. Madame Marie Curie, after 487 unsuccessful experiments to isolate radium, said to her husband, "Tf it takes 100 years, it will be a pity, but I will not cease to work for it as long as I live." Her work was one of dedication. A wonderful Swiss immigrant, 620 well along in her seventies, who did ironing for several families, answered when complimented on her work, "Why not? It is my profession!" To her, work was a matter of pride. A little child when asked his idea of work answered, "Anything I have to do is work, but anything I want to do is play." To this little soul at this age work seemed to be a drudgery. Work should be a joy and a labor of love. It should bring with it a sense of accomplishment, of doing a job well, of achieving success. The by-products are a hearty appetite, a good night's sleep, and complete enjoyment of a time of relaxation. To paraphrase Ecclesiastes, "There is a time for work and a time for play" (see Ecc. 3:1-8) and getting each in its proper order contributes greatly to one's happiness. J. Edgar Hoover has S necessary also Proper way, ent methods s. All homemaktation of them f LESSON DEPARTM ENT Part of the work chores and hayIng fun in the doing. But no matter the age of the children, it is a thing to Strive for and accomplish. Adults and young People, is not having these four steps Satisfied. Since the days of the Ten Commandments, When the Lord Said, "Six days shalt thou labour," he has commanded his People to work. Pay] the apostle Wrote to the Saints at Thessalonica, "Work With your own hands the Lord once again commanded, through Joseph Smith, "Tz is my will that you should 80 forth and Not tarry, neither be idle but Iabor with your might" (D&C 75. 3). Our prophet today, President happiness js doubled to him who Initiates the work."