Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. 
Editorial and Business Office:

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$2.50 2 The Gospel and Man's Relationship to Deity by B. H. Roberts The author of several LDS best sellers penned this volume originally in 1888 while serving as a missionary in England. It was written for youth at the instigation of the general superintendency of the Mutual Improvement Association. It is brilliantly written and will help the reader understand basic gospel principles. $3.25 3 The Key to Theology by Parley P. Pratt In these days of intellectual confusion, a leader among Latter-day Saint literary figures of the Joseph Smith era provides guidance that is essential for our time. The author writes with the insight of a great scholar and the inspiration of a true apostle of Christ. $2.25 Deseret Book Co., 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah ——s a = SSS _ 8 Dy TSS kT Gentlemen: enclosed please find check money; Des t B order I have an account, please charge ere ook Amount $. Vecececeteseee--s-e For the above numbered COMPANY "4 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY books. 1 2 3 I 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN I y 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Name::.. Q = SS Gaia Address: 00500 oooe occ cece eee ey State Zip: Residents of Utah please include 3%2% sales tax. Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please include 4% sales tox. R. S. Aug. 65 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Ué&I Sugar gives you get up and go! For the active outdoor family, the natural food energy in picnic treats made with U & 1 Sugar is vital for healthy, active bodies! Serve energy-high U & I Sugar treats often. Buy Energy High U & I the sugar from our land.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_08_12_GenFt_Notes_Conference.txt) ===
Ever Been Lost in Beauty? Christina Cox Stacey Have you ever been lost in a field of clover, Where soft lacy clouds filter sunshine all over; Where gay honey bees softly hum hour by hour, As they ardently kiss each delectable flower? Have you ever strayed into a maze, all aglow With sunshine above, golden blossoms below; Where pert dandelions, an artist's find, Bow tousled heads in the summer wind? Have you ever strolled under an evening sky, And beheld a myriad of stars on high; While the shining moon, like a crescent bow, Glides silently down to the hills below? Such glimpses of rapture, with beauties admired, Are mine for the asking, no toll is required, So when my soul hungers, stars in my eyes, I follow the lane for a lovely surprise.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_08_14_The Home_Home_Thomas.txt) ===
Celia Larsen Luce @ Parents spend great sums of money for educational toys, yet often ignore one of the cheapest and best —a blackboard. At least it is one of the cheapest if you are willing to make your own. This is easier than most folks think. All you really need is a smooth surface and some blackboard paint. Of course, moldings make a nicer finished product. A blackboard painted on the wall is best, as there is no bother with an easel and no storage problem. The blackboard can fit into the decorative scheme of your family room, kitchen, or a child's bedroom, for the paints come in colors other than black and green. Check with your paint dealer far enough ahead so he can order the color you wish. Black is easiest to find and best for most purposes. The wall surface must be smooth. Run your hand over the wall to check this. If you have a wall of painted plasterboard you should have no trouble. Masonite will supply a smooth surface if your walls are not smooth. If you are renting, perhaps you would prefer a masonite blackboard that could be hung on the wall and taken with you when you move. It is much easier to make and use than an easel blackboard. Make your blackboard large enough.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_08_22_Poem_After-Words_Robert.txt) ===
Pendence upon his Father. He re. peatedly declare that his might Mediate] € receive no re. Works w Te perform d by the Sponse to h antic crieg or the Power of G S Spirit and Made it Sounding of her cay' horn All Clear that, «7 can of mine Own this tim Prayj mightily Self do nothi eek not nd, final] » With Ustaining Mine ow Will, but the wil] of the Strength Ich f] Into her Father hic hath sent me" body, € crawled the roa (John 5 30 aboy er, Ospital, the 0 the da ly prob] Ms and Cares back UD to the Toad." The doctor of life, Sustaining Support and Teplied, « € must been With WIS€ solution "Nn more than you. You co d have climbed this, Prayer jis 4 Orce as rea] as onto that road alo Yo ave q the power f stavity. In act, at token back » Imes it see to have € Dower Throug Prayer Miracles are © contro] or eve supersede Performed I are h ble, be he laws f natur NY of us lieving, and pPrayerf I, no Matter h flven strep Il_beyong the faint.» Cope of o um Capacities —_——.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_08_26_Lssn_Social_Christensen.txt) ===
ancient scripture we read _ these words: "To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven... EA time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance" (Ecclesiastes 3:1, 4). Opened for Performances fifteen years after the Pioneers came into evidence the interest of present Church leaders in making recreLESSON DEPARTMENT to take advantage of the recregtional activities offered the youth of the Church, are associating, Children wil] recall fondly the family outings, and summer picwith family members or friends playing games, listening to conversation or music, Popping corn, serving refreshments. Such occasions, enjoyable in the present, FOR DISCUSSION Questions appearing in the lesson and introduced into the discussion. FOR HOME DOING 627 t Wwe would li buy ¢ ke to Oys just behave them. LESSON DEPARTMENT much _ Do you think the Matter of much money we ra Choice Is Involved to spend. This one Costs about the: Same as the little truck IN this quesh tion? Might we say that the you have;. - There wil] daughter Is choosing to keep al] enough money, and the mother Which Would you Prefer having?" is agreeing? Boy: "Bobby bishop, this cents to the Morning, fo Do r his tithing. Dren to e of Teady-toMoney). Ing. 3. Why we Day tithing. Financial] circumstances, lowing: 


 (short term); Church missions; selecting a vocation. In all of these areas the matter of money is an important factor. There are many alluring enticements which involve' the spending of money for children of all ages. Children need the counsel of wise parents from an early age so that they will be reasonable in their requests for money; will not squander their own prized earnings; may acquire sound spending practices which will be useful to them throughout life. VALUE OF EXPERIENCE We must not overlook, moreover, the value of an experience which may result from an unwise choice. Example: A son, age nineteen, who purchases, with his own money, a used car which tums out to be a financial burden as well as a poor buy. How may the parents of this son help him to gain value from this experience, without losing faith in his own decisions? His ability to make an individual choice? DIVINE ADMONITION Latter-day Saints are encouraged to work, to be thrifty, and to spend wisely. They are encouraged to seek for a_ wise balance in their spending for spiritual and for temporal needs, and for luxuries. The mother will remain aware of the wisdom found in the divine admonition: Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for 630 yourselves treasures in heaven.... For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also (Matthew 6: 19-21). As part of her responsibility to teach the gospel in the home, the mother herself will heed this divine counsel, and will help her children to know what the treasures are that are laid up in heaven and to seek them. A mother will train her children to follow the words of Benjamin:._.. 1 would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants (Mosiah 4:26). WHAT SHALL I BUY WITH MY TIME? This question is of continuing concern for both children and adults and, only gradually, do we learn where true wisdom lies. As we plan on receiving full value for the money we spend, so, also, should we aim to receive full value for our time, even our leisure time. When we are young, time appears to be an indefinite, limitless commodity. It seems to stretch before us as a _ neverending plain. Days, weeks, months, years—time for everything! We sometimes hear youth say, "Oh, I have time to burn." As we grow older, the days slip by, weeks shorten, years— where do they go? All of our activities relate to the use of time, and, since our earth-time is limited, we increasingly need to choose wisely how we will use time. We need to decide what values we hope to get in return. What are some of the specific values we may expect to get from the wise expenditure of our time? (Suggestion: Wisdom, development of specific skills, mental and emotional satisfaction, financial compensation. ) IMPORTANT CHOICES TV viewing is an area where time and value received are important factors, and where mothers may help children to become selective. There are many beautiful, stimulating, educational, and wholesomely entertaining television shows, and there are also unwholesome, undesirable shows where violence and dishonor are even made attractive. How may the mother guard her children and her home from the undesirable influence of undesirable viewing? How may she help her children see that the values received from TV shows differ widely? What desirable values may be received? Name four values which might be "learned" from undesirable shows.