[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 578 | Special Feature | The Uninvited Guest — Mr. Germ Utah State Board of Health | ]
The Uninvited Guest—Mr. Germ Utah State Board of Health @ Women of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have enjoyed the reputation of being excellent cooks from the earliest days of the Church. Bake sales, Church picnics, banquets, and food fairs are an integral part of our Mormon culture. Whenever a Church auxiliary, ward or stake, sponsors a fundraising dinner and accepts "pot luck" contributions from its members, there is always a big turnout. Everyone is eager to show his appreciation for good home cooking. Since these Church social affairs are such an established part of our way of life, health officials would not want to see them abandoned, so they are anxious to bring a few vital protective measures to the attention of those who are responsible for food at such functions. By observing such measures, participants are assured of safe and sanitary, as well as appetizing, menus. The Food Service Sanitation Manual of the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare states that: Food-borne diseases have occurred and continue to occur from food served at clubs, church socials and suppers, at picnics, banquets and catered affairs. For this reason, public health authorities should work with the community group responsible for this type of food service operation, in order to insure the application of food protective measures. 578 Experience also indicates that too few health agencies take an active part in the supervision of food-service operations of churches and institutions having religious affiliations. This is a serious omission. The food sanitation principles are often not observed, the hazard in terms of potential food-borne illness is significantly greater than from foods-served by establishments under official supervision. Food poisoning is serious! It may occur as a result of food eaten in your own home, at a Church supper, or in the finest restaurant. Most often, however, it occurs when people unaccustomed to dealing with large quantities of food attempt to serve a large crowd. Bacteria that cause food poisoning lurk everywhere. It is hard to keep them out of food. For example, they are found in the nose, throat, and on the skin. It is therefore vital that personal hygiene be practiced and thorough handwashing be carried out prior to handling or preparing food. Keep hands away from food as much as possible. Use spoons or tongs and never re-use a spoon when tasting a mixture while it is cooking. Make certain that eating utensils are thoroughly washed and sanitized after each use. The mouth can harbor many types of germs. Whenever utensils come in contact with the mouth some saliva and germs are certain to remain on them. If not cleaned Sauce, Potato Salad » Meat Salads, Warmed-ovey' eans, The U d not be y te Department of: Health, Division of Nvironmen- " swollen op » has Published 4 nationally recognized Seventy-one cold foods Cold—ho} Page, Ulustrateq booklet, Food foods hot. Foods Stand Service Sanitation Mperature. Do not un- 1 dertake a la anual, as a fuide jn establishing More unj "se banq et, church form and e €ctive Control of food Inner, ete unless there jg ad handling Practices throughout the quate space to pr Pare, refrigertate. The Info ation js especiate, and Keep hot food hot (140° ally Suited to Church Social func F) and Cold foods Cold (45° F.) TONS as wel] S to commercja] S€ extra Care I handlin ood handlers Opies are availOods of high Protein conte t, such able through the Utah State De. 4S cooke 4nd proces d eats, Partment of Health. Nother Meat Products, Poultr > eggs ighly recommended booklet en 8Tavies, fish, Custards, nd pudtitled, Serv; Successfy] Snacks Ings, uch ds are easily and als, for lu Lodge rontaminated through Carelegs Church and IC Gro PS, pub andling.