[Vol52 | August 1965 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Home | Title: 569 Companionship of Couples Through the Family Home Evening Lila Walch]
569     Companionship   of   Couples   Through   the   Family   Home  Evening     Lila  Walch 
578     The  Uninvited  Guest  —  Mr.  Germ     Utah  State  Board  of  Health 
580     Let's  Speak  Correctly     Myrtle  E.  Henderson 
Fiction 
572     Letitia  Keeps  in  Touch     Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson 
599     Ring  Around  Her  Heart  —  Chapter  4     Shirley  Thulin 
General  Features 
562  From  Near  and  Far 
583  Woman's  Sphere     Ramona  W.  Cannon 
584  Editorial:    Self-Reliance     Louise  W.  Madsen 
586  Notes  to  the  Field:   The  Relief  Society  Annual  General  Conference 
604  Notes  From  the  Field:   Relief  Society  Activities 
640  Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Home -Inside  and  Out 
588     Home  Again     Fae  Paulsen  Thomas 
592     A  Family  Blackboard     Celia  Larsen  Luce 
594     Quantity   Cooking  for  Relief  Society   Functions  —  Part  I  —  Rosa  Shurtz 
597  Caster  Cups  for  Many  Uses     Jean  Crosse  Hansen 
598  Jennette  T.  Chamberlain  Makes  Plain  and  Fancy  Quilts 
Lessons  for  November 
611     Theology  —  The  Earth  and  Man     Roy  W.  Doxey 
618     Visiting  Teacher  Message  —  "Pray  Always,  That  Ye  May  Not  Faint" 
Christine  H.  Robinson 
620     Work  Meeting  —  The  Happiness  That  Comes  From  Work     Winnifred  C.  Jardine 
622     Social  Science   [for  October]   —  The  Dignity  and  Worth  of  Work  and  of  Play 
Alberta  H.   Christensen 
628     Social   Science   —    Learning    to   Choose  Wisely      Alberta  H.  Christensen 
633     Literature  —  Good  versus  Evil  —  Part  II     Robert  K.  Thomas 
Poetry 
561     Summer  Afternoon  —  Christie  Lund  Coles 
Farewell  to  a  Son,  by  Margery  S.  Stewart,  568;  To  a  New  Chapel,  by  Maureen  Davies, 
571;  The  Mountain's  Gift,  by  Enola  Chamberlin,  582;  Have  You  Ever  Been  Lost  in  Beauty? 
by  Christina  Cox  Stacey,  586;  After-Words,  by  Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  617;  Three-Generation 
Bible,  by  Ora  Pate  Stewart,  619;  Till  Love  Comes  Home,  by  Rae  Woolley  Whited,  632; 
Lyric  of  Happiness,  by  Vesta  Nickerson  Fairbairn,  637;  The  Garden,  by  Catherine  B. 
Bowles,  640. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  ©  1965  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main 
Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111;  Phone  364-2511;  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c 
a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  can  be  sup- 
plied. Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new 
address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Past  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the 
Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  Oc- 
tober 8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed. 
Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manu- 
scripts.

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie 
Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
■  Faith  like  the  ancients — what 
we  would  give  to  possess  it! 
By  faith  all  things  are  possible. 
To  name  the  fruits  of  faith  is 
simply  to  list  all  of  the  miracles, 
all  of  the  gifts  and  signs,  all  of 
the  events  of  creation,  redemp- 
tion, and  salvation. 
By  faith  Enoch  walked  with 
God;  Melchizedek  quenched  the 
violence  of  fire;  Moses  led  Israel 
through  the  Red  Sea;  Joshua 
stopped  the  sun;  Elijah  called 
down  fire  from  heaven;  Daniel 
stopped  the  mouths  of  lions; 
and  Moriancumer  moved  Mount 
Zerin;  Peter  and  Paul  raised  the 
dead;  and  by  faith,  prophets  in 
all  ages  have  opened  the  eyes  of 
the  blind,  unstopped  the  ears  of 
the  deaf,  loosed  the  tongues  of 
the  dumb,  healed  withered  limbs, 
rebuked  diseases,  restored  health. 
By  faith,  men  accept  the  gos- 
pel, forsake  the  world,  become 
the  sons  of  God,  go  on  to  eternal 
perfection,  and  gain  mansions  in 
that  kingdom  where  God  and 
Christ  dwell. 
"Faith  is  .  .  .  the  moving  cause 
of  all  action  in  .  .  .  intelligent 
beings."  It  is  a  "principle  ...  of 
power."  It  "is  the  first  great  gov- 
erning principle  which  has  power, 
dominion,  and  authority  over  all 
things;  by  it  they  exist,  by  it 
they  are  upheld,  by  it  they  are 
changed,  or  by  it  they  remain, 
agreeable  to  the  will  of  God. 
Without  it  there  is  no  power,  and 
without  power  there  could  be  no 
creation  nor  existence."  So  taught 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the 
Lectures  on  Faith. 
The  ancient  apostles — knowing 
of  the  mighty  deeds  done  by  the 
prophets  who  preceded  them, 
knowing  that  these  things  had 
been  done  by  faith,  knowing  that 
faith  was  a  principle  of  power — 
presented  to  the  Master  this 
petition:  "Increase  our  faith." 
They  wanted,  through  faith,  what 
every  saint,  ancient  and  modern, 
desires — to  have  power  to  do  all 
things  which  are  harmonious  with 
the  will  of  God  in  this  life  and 
then  to  gain  eternal  salvation  in 
the  life  to  come. 
Jesus'    reply    (as   far   as   the 
564

LORD,   INCREASE  OUR  FAITH 
record  reveals)  did  not  answer 
their  query.  Instead,  he  spoke 
simply  of  the  transcendent  power 
manifest  through  the  exercise  of 
faith.  "If  ye  had  faith  as  a  grain 
of  mustard  seed,"  said  he,  "ye 
might  say  unto  this  sycamine 
tree,  Be  thou  plucked  up  by  the 
root,  and  be  thou  planted  in  the 
sea;  and  it  should  obey  you" 
(Luke  17:5-6). 
And  so  the  problem  remains. 
As  with  the  Twelve  in  Palestine, 
so  with  the  saints  today:  How  is 
faith  gained,  increased,  perfected, 
until  the  man  of  God  attains  that 
spiritual  stature  which  assures 
him  of  eternal  life?  "Lord,  in- 
crease our  faith." 
As  they  petitioned,  so  do  we 
pray:  "Lord,  Let  us  have  power 
to  uproot  sycamine  trees,  to  move 
mountains,  to  work  miracles,  to 
do  all  things  needful  while  here 
on  earth,  and  to  be  saved  in  thy 
kingdom  in  due  course."  As  they 
knew,  so  do  we  that  faith  and  its 
fruits  go  together,  that  if  we  pos- 
sess that  power  which  is  faith,  we 
will  enjoy  those  things  which  are 
the  fruits  of  faith. 
Joseph  Smith  said: 
Because  faith  is  wanting,  the  fruits 
are.  No  man  since  the  world  was  had 
faith  without  having  something  along 
with  it.  The  ancients  quenched  the 
violence  of  fire,  escaped  the  edge  of 
the  sword,  women  received  their  dead, 
etc.  By  faith  the  worlds  were  made. 
A  man  who  has  none  of  the  gifts  has 
no  faith;  and  he  deceives  himself,  if 
he  supposes  he  has.  Faith  has  been 
wanting,  not  only  among  the  heathen, 
but  in  professed  Christendom  also,  so 
that  tongues,  healings,  prophecy,  and 
prophets  and  apostles,  and  all  the 
gifts  and  blessings  have  been  wanting 
(President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith: 
Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  page  270). 
Viewed  in  its  proper  perspec- 
tive, then,  the  pursuit  of  faith 
becomes  man's  most  important 
enterprise,  for  through  faith  men 
gain  the  greatest  blessings  both 
in  time  and  in  eternity.  For  the 
spiritual  novice,  the  spiritually 
weak,  the  seeker  who  is  but  be- 
ginning— -perhaps  even  for  the 
apostles  who  were  told  anew  by 
their  Lord  of  the  power  that  is 
faith — the  casting  of  sycamine 
trees  into  the  sea  seems,  if  not 
impossible,  at  least  a  difficult 
thing  reserved  for  a  favored  few. 
And  so,  perhaps,  it  is,  for  faith 
(or  power)  is  found  in  all  degrees 
and  in  all  quantities.  One  man 
has  faith  (or  power)  to  do  one 
thing,  and  another  has  power  (or 
faith)  to  do  something  greater. 
Thus  the  Prophet  said: 
Miracles  are  the  fruits  of  faith.  .  .  . 
Faith  comes  by  hearing  the  word  of 
God.  If  a  man  has  not  faith  enough 
to  do  one  thing,  he  may  have  faith 
to  do  another:  if  he  cannot  remove 
a  mountain,  he  may  heal  the  sick. 
Where  faith  is  there  will  be  some  of 
the  fruits:  all  gifts  and  power  which 
were  sent  from  heaven,  were  poured 
out  on  the  heads  of  those  who  had 
faith  (History  of  the  Church  [DHC] 
Volume  V,  page  355). 
In  gaining  faith  there  must  be 
a  beginning  point,  a  place  to 
start,  a  time  when  the  power  that 
is  faith  finds  initial  lodgment  in 
the  human  soul.  Since  faith 
comes  by  hearing  the  word  of 
God  (Romans  10:17),  faith  seek- 
ers must  hear  the  word  of  God 
taught,  taught  in  plainness  and 
perfection  by  legal  administrators 
who  have  power  and  insight  and 
who  teach  the  truth. 
Those  who  hear  must  elect  to 
be  receptive;  they  must  make  an 
56S