RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS

 Magazine 
The other three missionaries in the photograph are Louis A. Kelch, Alma O. Taylor and Horace S. Ensign. THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. 
XV OCTOBER, 1928 No. 10
EDITORIAL
Japan
This month we are presenting to our readers a Japanese issue. Japan is the most progressive of our Oriental countries. This progress is due largely to the foresight of one of its emperors, who, in a well known Japanese slogan embodied an idea which declared that whatever anyone else knew Japan should know. The interesting thing about the whole matter is that he came close to making his dream come true, for to a surprising degree Japan has absorbed the civilization of the modern world. We are publishing an article from President Franklin S. Harris of the Brigham Young University, who as the guest of a scientific convention, in 1926, had the pleasure of being entertained by the Japanese, and who knows from experience that what has often been written and spoken of Japanese courtesy and politeness is absolutely true. We present also an article on the drama in Japan, written by Mrs. Edna Harker Thomas, wife of Dr. Elbert D. Thomas, who, with him spent years in Japan while he was doing missionary work in that country. In most lines of art Japan seems to have more than held her own. There is no doubting that Japanese art is very old. So eminent an authority as Mr. H. H. Powers states that the question has never been settled as to whether or not Japanese art is as old as Greek art. In any event, available information seems to warrant 
 the view that in the matter of age Japanese art stands next to Greek-art. Many of our readers will recall that Japanese art was quite the vogue a decade ago and that some of our American painters took on a Japanesque manner both in composition and atmosphere. The Japanese people are eager for education. There is scarcely a university in the civilized world that has not a few Japanese students in it. Japanese students have made splendid records in the universities of the United States, Great Britain and France. They give one who comes into contact with them a feeling that they are mentally alert. That they are courageous no one has doubted since their victories in the Japanese-Russian war a decade or two ago. That Japan is the leading country of the Orient is indicated by the fact that it is a member of the Council of the League of Nations. Just what is before this bright-faced, dark-eyed, darkhaired people of diminutive stature, is hard to conjecture. But that they are forward-moving and persevering none acquainted with them will doubt. Japanese Woman at the Pan-Pacific Conference Dr. Valeria H. Parker, president of the National Council of Women, in a lecture on the Pan-Pacific Conference of Women recently held at Honolulu, and promoted by the Pan-Pacific Union, made a report of an outstanding address that was made by a Japanese