Pioneers
WILD GEESE?MARTHA OSTENSO By Lais V. Hales
"Wild Geese" is a first novel and winner of the $13,500 prize offered jointly by the Pictorial Review, Dodd, Mead & Company, and Famous-Players in 1925. Its author, Martha Ostenso, is a Norwegian by birth but has spent her life on the prairie lands of Minnesota and Canada. "Wild Geese" is a story of the Canadian prairie farmland while Miss Ostenso's second novel "The Dark Dawn" deals with the prairies of Minnesota. Miss Ostenso was a well-known poet before she became a prize-winning novelist.
"Wild Geese" tells the story of the Caleb Gare family, outlined against the drab background of the soil of the prairies of Canada, where they contend the year round with the sun, the rain, the drought, and the blight. In it we feel the land-hunger which took possession of so many of our pioneers. We feel the stark loneliness which work could not destroy. We see people thrown inward upon themselves with their passions stored up without a promise of any outlet. We see the completion of a perfect cycle of plowing, harrowing, planting, growing, reaping, and threshing and we feel the effect it has on the human beings who help Nature in bringing this cycle to completion. Tired bodies and minds, with no feeling "after the soil and the live stock have taken their share" we feel is the tragedy of such a life. We see, vividly portrayed for us, the part that the soil, the isolation, and the hard winters played in the lives of our pioneers.
Amelia Gare had loved a good man and from their love had come Mark Jordan who was born after the tragic death of his father. In order to give her child a name Amelia married Caleb Gare and went to live with him on his farm in Canada. While she reared a family here Mark grew up in ignorance of his parentage. All this time Caleb used Amelia's love for her son to bend her to his will. Not only Amelia but his son Martin and two daughters Ellen and Judith he cowed into submission through Amelia. But with the coming of Lind Archer, the new school teacher, came a breath of freedom which immediately has its effect on Judith the least submissive of the Gare household. The spirit of rebellion against continual toil with no promise of anything but more toil in the future enters Caleb's home. With the coming of Mark Jordan to the village Caleb's hold over Amelia strengthens. Mark and Lind come to love one another and Amelia becomes more anxious than ever that nothing shall destroy their happiness. Caleb, obsessed with his growing crops, still watches his family


closely and awaits the time to use his whip to the shame of Mark. At the end of the haying season Judith elopes with the man she loves and the accidental opening of a desk and a wild prairie fire destroy both Caleb Gare and his whip. Caleb in his land hunger and love for his beautiful growing flax has, with the help of the prairie fire, worked his own ruin.
Martha Ostenso knows how to write vividly and convincingly. In spite of much adverse criticism we cannot feel other than the inevitable in the prairie fire with which the life of Caleb ends. In her opening chapter Miss Ostenso describes the treacherous muskeg, bottomless and foul, and it seems to hang over the story with its promise of disaster. When the feet of Caleb Gare become hopelessly tangled in its meshes we feel again the inevitable. There is a certain savage realism?a Norwegian-American realism that we feel is in good keeping with such a novel of pioneer life. We feel no unnatural change in Caleb Gare. He is beaten after a life of preparation for his moment of triumph. But he is still Caleb Gare with his land hunger, belonging infinitely body and soul to the earth for which he has worked all his life. He is vividly portrayed and we feel the effect that thwarted love has had in turning a great love into a malicious love and making him feel that the growth of the earth is the only thing worthy of respect, of homage. The other characters of the book are also vividly portrayed against the background of nature. Few authors can so successfully portray the inner sufferings of men and women. Miss Ostenso shows us what her characters are and then she shows us why they are just the people they are. She sees both the beauty and the ugliness within the human soul and she gives it to us in beautiful, vivid, poetic language. Many pioneer women will recognize in both the inner and the outer life of Amelia much of the joy, the sorrow, hunger, and beauty of their own life. Over the book hovers the atmosphere of the wild geese, all moved by a common impulse akin to that of the pioneer, always pressing northward, their eyes glistening with mysterious hope, their necks strained to catch a glimpse of their promised land of blue lakes, tall reeds, and broad fields. Their cold lonely cry as they pass over the haunts of men on their way to the swamps echoes in the story. It is a cry of loneliness?of seeking?a cry which smites upon the heart like "the loneliness of the universe?a magnificent seeking through solitude?an endless quest." Their cry is heard at the sowing and at the harvesting. They mark the beginning and the end of the period of growth. We feel something of the effect their cry must have had on the heart of Caleb Gare as he listened to it at sowing and again when the earth had yielded to him its rich growth.