NOTES AND NEWS.
	Norway, Maine, claims to have the first
woman road surveyor.
 Jenny Lind’s memoirs have just been pub-
lished in London. 
Mrs. Frank Leslie sailed for Southampton,
May 5, on the North German Lloyd steamship
Lahn.
	Mrs. Harrison and Mrs. Palmer are said to
be interested in the movement to have a child-
ren’s department in the World’s Fair.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony addressed the New
England Woman Suffrage Association, in
Tremont Temple, Monday evening May 25.
	Hon. John D. Long presided at the
Woman Suffrage Festival in Music Hall last
Wednesday evening, from 5 to 10 p. m.
	Miss Bessie H. Thomas, of Philadelphia
recently took the first prize at the Academy of
Fine  Arts in that city. She won it over both
women and men students.
	Mrs. Elizabeth M. Yates has made a tour
of forty lectures in Vermont, in the interests
of temperance and woman suffrage. She has
everywhere delighted her audiences.
	Madame Blavatsky, the well-known theo-
sophist of London, died in that city May 9.
aged sixty years. Her body was cremated at
Working.
	Grace Greenwood (Mrs. Lippincott) is
about to leave New York and make Wash-
ington her permanent residence. She is
afflicted with a cataract which causes partial
blindness, only to be relieved by an opera-
tion.
	The only woman on record who was the
mother of a Governor, the wife of a Governor,
the sister of a Governor, the niece of a
Governor and the aunt of a Governor was
Mrs. Richard Manning of South Carolina.
	The greatest novelty in dolls has been in-
vented in Nuremberg, the great German town


for dolls and playthings. A machine in the
doll causes it to move its hand and write neat
little letters on a slate or on paper. Whole
sentences can be written, to the great amuse-
ment of children.
	The Philadelphia branch of the Association
of Collegiate Alumnae recently discussed the
subject of physical culture. In regard to op-
portunities for teachers of physical culture it
was authoritatively said that among public
schools there is a small but growing demand
for teachers with special physical training; for
higher institutions and private gymnasiums
there is a demand for skilled teachers greater
than the supply. High salaries are offered,
and the opportunity for original and success-
ful work is great.


It is the surmounting of difficulties that
makes heroes.
	A wise and good man will turn examples
of all sorts to his own advantage. The good
he will make his patterns, and strive to equal
or excel them. The bad he will by all means
avoid.—Thomas A. Kempis.
	Surely happiness is reflective, like the light
of heaven; and every countenance bright with
smiles, and glowing with innocent enjoyment,
is a mirror transmitting to others the rays of
a supreme and ever shining benevolence.—
W. Irving.
	The world is a looking-glass and gives back
to every man the expression of his own face.
Frown at it and it will in turn look sourly
upon you; laugh at it and with it and it is a
jolly, kind companion; and so let all young
persons take choice.—Thackeray.


