A NATIONAL TEMPLE FOR WOMEN.

	During the early part of the session Monday
evening the exercises were pleasantly varied
by the presentation from the National Chau-
tauqua Association of a gift of land for the
erection of a temple, at Glen echo, for the
future meeting of the Council. The gift also
included the granite of which the temple is to
be built. The deed was read by Mr. L. D. F.
Jennings. The gift was accepted by the presi-
dent Miss Willard, and by the treasurer, Mrs.
M. Louise Thomas, who announced that the
Women's National Council had secured an act
of incorporation in the District of Columbia
which would empower them to accept any
other gifts that might be made to the Asso-
ciation.
	"I want you to understand, friends," said
she, "that the idea embodied in this Chau-
tauqua Association and its relation to women
is the idea of a woman. A woman's mind
conceived it and a woman's heart moved the
hearts of the givers to make this beautiful do-
nation to the Council. I would like to tell
you what Clara Barton said of the woman who
first thought of this." Mrs. Thomas then read the
following extract from an article written by
Clara Barton:
	Seven years ago, in the turmoil and confu-
sion of the New Orleans Exposition, where
effort failed, endeavor languished, hope


perished, and the stoutest natures gave way, I
marked a woman whose patient and persistent
labors, day by day, attracted me like a magnet.
I followed her to her "pavilion" to find
she had nothing to sell, no profits to expect
but ideas to promulgate for the uplifting of hu-
manity.
	A graduate of old Chautauqua in the North,
she was laboring to up-build a new one in the
South, and succeeded, and De Funiak Springs,
in the western arm of Florida, the only Chau-
tauqua in the South at that time, was the re-
sult of that patient toil. I followed her history
to find that this result was fraught not with
personal or pecuniary gain, but with the sac-
rifice of health and strength and in the face of
heavy loss.
	A few weeks ago I was informed of the fact
of the princely gift of land and material aid
foy a National Chautauqua at our own door,
my co-operation was asked and I was also told
that an experienced woman was active in the
movement. "The name?" "Mrs. Susie Birch
Jennings." The memories rolled back. She
was Susie Birch at New Orleans. The name
was a talisman. Perseverance, earnestness,
good judgment and experience should bring
success; and a great wave of grateful confi-
dence swept over my heart for the other gift
of that faithful worker in this new vineyard
of the Lord. It was the hand of this woman
that Mrs. Leland Stamford clasped in hers as
she uttered these eloquent and heartfelt words:
"We have a Catholic University; a Methodist
University in progress; now comes a Chau-
tauqua, with its grand amphitheater, that over-
shadows them all."
	Mrs. Thomas then introduced Mrs. Susie
Birch Jennings and Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
The ladies were greeted with applause by the
audience and responded in graceful and fitting
remarks.
	Mrs. Thomas then said: "Our idea in our
temple is to have a representation of every in-
terest among women. We have already re-
ceived one pledge of $10,000 through Clara
Barton. The woman who has made this pledge
is Mrs. Roby, President of the Grand Army of
the Republic among women, who heads an or-
ganization of forty thousand. If she can ob-
tain one dollar from each of her constituents
her benefactions will not stop but will aid
greatly in the building of the temple.
	"Now the work is before ns. Do not let it
die or grow cold in your hearts. Remember
that we wait your message."


