BIRTHDAY OF BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	June first is the anniversary of the birth of
Brigham Young who was born in the year 1801,
and who was for many long years the President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and a wise and judicious leader of the
people when they were driven from their homes
and possessions. He has been designated by a
gifted writer (Edward W. Tullidge) as the
modern Moses, and certainly the Lord was with
him and inspired him in a miraculous manner in
many times and places. This people have great
reason to cherish his memory and teach the
children of Zion to honor the man and the day.
"Honor to whom honor is due" so say the
Scriptures and surely honor is due to this great
and good man. It is a beautiful custom to ob-
serve the day as a holiday for the little people,
that it may be more effectually impressed upon
their minds, and the Associations of young men,
who were organized by his direction for mutual
improvement have done well in choosing his
birthday as a proper time to hold their annual
conference, and especially if on that day, the
cultivation of music is to be made a principal
feature. It is well-known that Brigham Young
took special delight in the cultivation of musical
talent both vocal and instrumental and gave every
encouragement possible in that direction even in
the days of adversity among the people. He was
richly endowed in this respect himself, possess-
ing a mellow, musical voice and a correct ear for
tune, harmony and time; and delicate apprecia-
tion of this talent and gift in others. In the
grand Temples that have been, and are to be
erected, it will be an essential matter to have
hundreds and thousands of harmonious voices
tuned to the praise of the Creator, as well as those
who can play upon instruments, in order to give
the most eloquent and glorious expression to the
human soul in its adoration of the Deity.
	In all the higher attainments of excellence the
Latter-day Saints should strive to excel, and the
youth of Zion born and reared here, have blessed
opportunities for cultivation, and it is expected
that they will surpass the world in knowledge,
because they are entitled through obedience to
the Gospel, to the Holy Spirit which leads into all
truth. But these things are not obtained without
diligence and application.
	Brigham Young's teachings were all calculated
to inspire in the mind a tendency to advancement
and progress in every department of life both
private and public. His example in regard to
methbd, promptitude and economy, is worthy of
imitation, and it would be well for the youth of
Zion to follow the course so often marked out by
him in his sermons and instructions to the people,
and especially in referrence to home productions
and home manufactures, and seek to build up
home interests and thereby build up Zion.


