BY HELEN L. WEBSTER.

	After giving a detailed account of the early
struggles of women to obtain even the rudi-
ments of education, the speaker said, "It took
two hundred and fifty years for New England
to realize that women have need of and are
capable of the highest development of mind."
The agitation of the subject of higher educa
tion, however, at last led to the formation of
the Boston High School. Two hundred and
eighty-six girls presented themselves as candi-
dates for admission as against ninety boys. The
authorities, however, were so amazed at the
eagerness of the girls to take up the higher
branches of learning, they closed the school
after it had been in existence eighteen months.
Said Miss Webster: "The eloquent absurdity
of this failure, and the increasing demands of
women worked hand in hand, and a quarter
of a century later Boston had a High School
for girls; another quarter of a century passed
and a Latin school was established to fit girls
for College. To fit girls for college! This clause
speaks the last and best words that we have
to say concerning the opportunities which have
been won for woman's higher education.
	"It reminds us of the opening of Vassar in
'65, of Smith and Wellesley in '75, of Bryn
Mawr in '85, of Barnard in '89, it reminds us
of the many colleges all over the land—Oberlin
heading the list—which have extended their
privileges to women.
	"In the West especially has the higher edu-
cation of women been well supported, both by
the governments of the separate States, and
by institutions that have been founded under
the auspices of private individuals, though
still in certain localities the old fight has to be
fought over again.
	"The spirit of the times says: 'Women need
equal culture of mind and heart with men,'
and the fact answers nearly to the spirit in the
Western States, where out of 212 institutions
165 are co educational; some of these were
founded originally for women, but have after-
wards extended their privileges on equal terms
to men.

[Column 2]

	"In the Southern States opportunities are
opening and standards are becoming higher,
The Woman's College of Baltimore, the co-
educational universities — Tulane in New
Orleans, Columbian in Washington, and the
Universities of Texas and Mississippi are the
hopeful signs of progress in the South. The
recent news that women are to be admitted to
the Johns Hopkins Medical School as soon as
its doors shall be opened sends a thrill of re-
joicing throughout the length and breadth of
our land. May the day not be far distant
when its academic department shall act upon
the same just principle!
	"Thus far we have spoken of woman's pro-
gress in education in America. In Germany
a book appears whose very existence is a proof
of progress—Helene Lange's 'Higher Educa-
tion of Women in Europe." Herein the
history of the higher education of women in
each of the countries of Europe is passed in
review. It begins with the movement in
England. From the opening of the Cambridge
University courses to women thirty years ago,
to their admission to the London University
examinations and the Cambridge tripos ex-
aminations in the beginning of the last decade
and finally to the founding of the Royal
Holloway College, which was opened in the
presence of the Queen of England five years
ago, the cause has advanced with strong and
steady steps.
	"Since 1866 France has made provision for
the higher education of women; one of our
own country-women, Dr. Mary Putman Jacobi,
was the first woman admitted to the medical
school in Paris.
	"Switzerland early opened the doors of her
universities to women, making neither reserve
nor concession on the ground of sex; Zurich
University has the honor of being the first in
this respect; then follow Geneva, Berne
Neuchatel, and finally report tells us that con-
servative Basel, has granted to one woman the
degree of Doctor of Philosophy.
	"Sweden follows in 1870. In 1875 Den-
mark grants to women the privilege of acquir-
ing all the degrees—except that of Doctor of
Divinity—that her only university gives.
	"Italy has from very early times permitted
women to attend the universities, both as
students and as professors. We need but call
to mind the Italian poet, musician, astronomer,
mathematician, and linguist, Elena Lucrezia
Coronaro, who received the Doctor's Degree
at the University of Padua, and the beautiful
and learned Novela d'Andrca, who sometimes
lectured in her father's stead at the University
of Bologna. The University of Bologna was
both ancient and celebrated. It was founded
in the early part of the fifth century and in
the thirteenth century its fame had become so
great that its students numbered about ten
thousand.
	"In the bloom of this brilliant period wo-
men were enrolled in the number of students
and professors; Bettisia Gozzidina, a Doctor of
Law, lectured there during the last ten years
of her life; Catalina and Novella Calderini
lectured on law a hundred years later. During
the following centuries women became re-
nowned in the various departments, including
mathematics and anatomical research. Thus
the distant past and the 'dark' Middle Ages
point their finger of reproach at the cold and
sluggish conservatism, not of phlegmatic Ger-
many alone, but of the free, enlightened, pro-
gressive America of the nineteenth century!
	"In 1875 St. Petersburg arranged university
courses for women.
	"The University of Amsterdam enrolled the
first woman student in 1880.
	"In 1882 Norway passed a law which autho-
rized admission of women to the degrees of
arts and of philosophy, and Miss Thoresen, the
first candidate, was not only allowed to enter, but

[Column 3]

was greeted by the students with an address of
welcome and congratulation.
	"Spain and Portugal have no law excluding
women from university privileges, while
Vienna and Liepzig tolerate them through the
courtesy or good nature of individual pro-
fessors, though they give them no recognition
or privilege of matriculation.
	"Do we look about us for signs of further
advance? They are at hand. Report tells us
that the new National University in Wash-
ington contemplates the admission of women
on the same conditions and with the same
privileges as men. The University of Glasgow
follows in the same path. The royal Uni-
versity of Ireland confers the degree of
Bachelor of Arts upon eleven women, and that
of Doctor of Laws upon several others. The
Universities of Montreal and Australia extend
a welcome to women students. A petition for
admittance to the University of Greece has
been signed by Greek women, and Rome be-
stirs herself in behalf of her girls.
	"Such, to-day are the facts which are the
foundation of our hope of future opportunity.
What to-day are our ideals, that are to be the
basis of future attainment.
	"One of the greatest needs of the future in
America is a higher standard of scholarship
a standard of scholarship which shall lead to
the seeking of knowledge for its own sake, for
the sake of that vision of truth which alone
can guide aright. We need, as a people, not
more ambition, but ambition more wisely di-
rected, not a greater amount of work, but a
better quality of it; not culture pursued as an
end, but as a means.
	"Among the leaders in the world of scientific
research let the woman of the future take her
place. This duty her new and larger oppor-
tunities impose upon her."
	After referring to the plan of university ex-
tension as presented by Mr. Richard S.
Moulton, of Cambridge, England, and to the
noble work of the college settlements, she
said:
	"Thus the coming years will find woman at
work at the top, at the bottom, and all the
way between. She will have her share in sup-
porting that system of education which Prof.
Huxley declares to be the only one worthy of
the name, 'that which shall create a great
educational ladder, with one end in the gutter
and the other in the university.'
	"We could not close this sketch of our
ideal future without expressing one more hope:
that the wisdom of the coming day may ad-
just things with such a perfect balance that the
scale in which woman's achievement is placed
may fall or rise according to the measure of its
worth, not according to prejudice or favor
based on the ground of sex. The past has
demanded for woman justice—not oppression;
the demand of the present and future is justice
still—not favor."


