EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Sisters Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jane Cannon and
Louie Felt are visiting Bear Lake Stake to attend
the Conferences of the Relief Society and Pri-
mary Associations, and in the interest of the or-
ganizations generally.
	Sisters Elizabeth Howard and Lillie Freeze are
traveling through Wasatch Stake attending the
Conferences of the Relief Society and Primary
Associations and also visiting the different settle-
ments in the interest of the organizations.
	The Primary Associations will hold their Con-
ference the following day, Saturday June 20th, in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall as usual. Each
Association in the county should come forward
with as many of the children as is practicable to
bring; city wards can certainly make a good
numerical showing, and with the facilities now
afforded adjacent country wards can have no ex-
cuse for non-attendance. The Hall should be
filled with the children, their parents and friends.
	The Executive Committee of the Woman's
National Council met in Indianapolis Ind., on
Saturday May 30th, as per previous appointment,
and according to the telegraphic reports tran-
sacted such business as had been resolved upon
at the business sessions held in Washington D.
C., at the close of the sessions of the Council in
February last. One of the items however not
brought before the Council at that time, was a
resolution to defray the expense of entertaining
delegates to the International Council which is
expected to convene in Chicago in 1893.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday June 19th. Meetings com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. It is
desirable that there should be representatives
from each branch in the Stake, that suitable in-
struction and encouragement may be given and
that all may work together in harmony and be
mutually helpful to each other through the inter-
change of ideas and a correct understanding of
the general status and labors of the Society in
the interest of all concerned in its welfare. All
those interested in this benevolent Society are
invited to attend this Conference.
	The difficulty in the Board of Lady Managers

[Column 2]

of the World's Fair between Mrs. Palmer, the
Executive Committee and Miss Phebe Counsins,
seems to grow more and more complicated, and
to hinder very much the progress of the work
necessary to be accomplished or at least fairly
begun at an early date; it is a great pity that this
little difference could not have been amicably
arranged between the two ladies themselves or by
some sort of friendly arbitration and not cause
so much ill-feeling and consequent delay in the
movement, that is to be a world-wide enterprise
and at all events should not be hampered by petty
trifles, or controversies over details.
	There will be a children's Fair of the Primary
Associations of this County held in the Social
Hall in this city. commencing about June 15th,
under the auspices of President Ellen C. Clawson
and her Counselors Camilla Cobb and Lydia Ann
Wells. It is to be hoped the people will put
forth their best efforts to make a good showing
of handiwork of both boys and girls. A few
prizes will be awarded; one for the best bread
made by a little girl,one for the best plain sewing,
also for best darning; and for the best essay
written by either boy or girl under fifteen
years of age a handsome book will be given.
One or two persons have offered to assist with
the prizes, and if there are others who feel to aid
in this good cause they can have the opportunity
now, and such donations will be gratefully re-
ceived by those who have charge of the affair.
The various associations throughout the county
should be represented, that it may be a success
in itself and a credit to all interested in the culti-
vation energy and skilled industry of the children
of Zion.
	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden an elocutionist and
teacher of the Delsarte system of physical train-
ing, gave an entertainment in the theatre on Mon-
day evening May 25, for the benefit of her pupils,
and that the public might know of her work here
during the past few months, in which she has
been an active, energetic and industrious teacher.
She has not given herself proper rest and rec-
reation because of her ambition to build up a repu-
tation as a teacher in this city and Territory. She
has brought forward a number of young pupils
who have improved wonderfully under her train-
ing and there is no doubt as to her capabilities as
a teacher of elocution. Mrs. Boyden gave several
selections herself from standard authors, Jean
Ingelow, George Elliot, and Shakespeare, and
showed remarkable versatility of acting. A short
play was given by some of her pupils and fine
instrumental music by Miss Grace Williams of
Boston; Miss Viola Pratt's singing added greatly
to the entertainment, she has a magnificent voice,
fine expression, and always sings with spirit and
feeling.


[Column 1]

