BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	Dear Sister Harrison: We the ladies of the
Relief Society of Eureka, and other friends,
have met in your home this evening to con-
gratulate you on your returning health and
strength. We are pleased to know that you
are able to be around again, and we hope
under the blessing of God, that you will con-
tinue to improve in bodily strength until you
are fully recovered from the severe sickness
under which you have suffered so long. You
have been brought back, so to speak, almost
from the gates of death, and we are proud to
see, and to know that our kind Heavenly
Father has been so merciful to you in sparing
your life to see more days, and to give you
another opportunity to be a help and mother
to your children and to be a useful, active
member in the Relief Society in this part of
our Father's vineyard.
	We also wish to extend to you, and the
members of your family, our heart-felt sym-
pathies for the great bereavement you, in the
providence of God, have been called upon to
sustain of late in the loss of your beloved hus-
band and father, Brother Harrison.
	We feel that such a sad occurrence was one


of the greatest misfortunes that could have be-
fallen you in this life, and that you alone feel
the loss of your dear companion with greater
sorrow than we can.
	We therefore pray that God, our Father,
may give you His holy spirit to comfort you
in your day of sorrow and bereavement.
	May you have faith in His promises,and be as-
sured that He has provided ways and means
by which you shall have the presence and
companionship of your dear ones again.
	In conclusion, Sister Harrison let me say, in
the name of the ladies of the Relief Society
and other friends that we wish to present you
this small token of our respect, as one of the
members of the Relief Society, and also as a
memorial of our everlasting friendship and as
a birthday present.
	We hope that in the future when you look
upon this memento* it will bring to your
mind those who respect and sincerely sym-
pathize with you under your present circum-
stances. We also wish you many happy re-
turns of your birthday.—C. B. N.
			E. LIZZIE GILLESPIE, PRES.
			MARY KEATON, SEC.
	*The ladies presented Sister Harrison with
a haudsome and valuable present.


[Column 1]

