LONGFELLOW'S EVANGELINE

	Here is the story of how Longfellow's
famous poem of "Evangeline" came to be
written: "Hawthorne dined one day with
Longfellow, and brought with him a friend
from Salem. After dinner the friend said,
"I have been trying to persuade Hawthorne
to write a story, based upon a legend of
Acadie, and still current there—the legend
of a girl who, in the dispersion of the Aca-
dians, was separated from her lover, and
passed her life in waiting and seeking for
him, and found him only when dying in a
hospital when both were old." Longfellow
wondered that this did not strike the fancy
of Hawthorne, and said to him, "If you
have really made up your mind not to use
it for a story, will you give it to me for a
poem?" To this Hawthorne assented, and,
moreover, promised not to treat the subject
in prose till Longfellow had seen what he
could do with it in verse."


Miss Margaret Schutt, a maiden lady, of
Derry, Pa., died recently at the age of sixty-five.
Her entire life has been devoted to hard work,
and since her father died, early in the seventies
she had been a plain domestic in the families
of the neighborhood. She dressed plainly
venturing only from the beaten path in wearing
a bustle. For some years she had been living
with a family named Bennett, from whose
house she was buried. After the funeral the
Misses Bennett went to clearing up the room
Miss Schutt had occupied. Such things as
were of no use they cast into into the fire.
When they came to the bed-ticking bustle
worn by the deceased, it was promptly pitched
into the flames, but was for some reason im-
mediately pulled out again. Then it was seen
that a twenty dollar greenback was found
sticking through the seam. Tearing open the
bustle the young women discovered a lot of
bank notes and gold and silver coins of all
denominations. The pile when counted up
made nine thousand dollars in cold cash. It
has long been a mystery what Miss Schutt did
with her earnings and this explained it. She
left no will, so the money was turned over to
her sister, who, in turn rewarded the Misses
Bennett for their discovery. The bustle will
probably go down to future generations as an
heirloom.—Ex.


