A UTAH GIRL IN LONDON.

	London, May 3, 1891
DEAR MARY:
	We came to London after two weeks stay
in Southport. * I thought we should only
stay here a week, or ten days, but we have
decided to stay two weeks if all is well, so I
don't have to rush about sight-seeing all the
time although I have been quite busy going
about since I came,and have seen considerable.
* * * The scenery is grand coming from
Southport to London, the Derbyshire hills
especially. The castles and halls and churches
were all ivy-covered and the green fields and
flower gardens were just like what we read of
in books. We passed young ladies playing
tennis and croquet. Papa's Aunt met us at
the station and we drove direct to our apart-
ments.
	The next day we went over Westminister
bridge and passed the Houses of Parliament.
Then we went into Westministor Abbey and
saw the tombs of Milton, John Dryden,
Longfellow, Hastings, Wardsworth and many
more great men, bnt these are all I can
remember. In the afternoon we went to St.
Paul's Cathedral to see the place. We saw
the Lord Mayor of London and ever so many
more great people, but I think they all look
ordinary and are not as refined looking
as some of the middle class people.
	The next day we went to the Crystal Palace
and saw so many things I can hardly
remember them all. In this place they have
an imitation tomb of the Black Prince, I
guess yon have read about him, and there
were busts of most of the great men of every
nation, and statues of a large number of
great people. In the gallery there were
beautiful pictures of all schools and all nations.
In the aquarium were fish of all kinds. They
have courts to represent the architecture of
olden times; and a tropical region of tropical
plants and birds. In the evening pa, ma, and
I went to see a grand burlesque and variety
play; it was splendid; a man in the play had
some trained dogs, and two of them had a
boxing-glove fight; they were getting angry
over it, so the man had to separate them;
everybody roared with laughter at the fun.
	I suppose you went somewhere on May-day;
I went to one of the most stylish shops in
London and bought me a dress; wherever you
buy a dress in England you can have it made
right at the shop; the dressmaking and be-
longings costs three guineas and a half.

[Column 2]

	May 5th:—Day before yesterday we went
to the Zoological gardens to see the animals.
They  have every kind of animal there from
the white Polar Bear to the crocodiles and
snakes of South America. Mabel and Alfred
had a ride on the elephant. The next day
that is yesterday, we went to Kew Gardens,
they are exquisitely lovely. In them a Queen
used to live, the Lake and swans, the ivy-
covered tower and flowers and garden make
a perfect picture. There are two or three
museums and half a dozen conservatories of
flowers and plants. * *

	May 12. * * It will not be long now be-
fore you think of going up the cañon; the time
seems to slip by: it does not seem possible
that it will soon be June and that we have
been away from home six weeks. Pa says if we
wish to we might stay six months after the
time of his mission is up, and travel on the
continent. I should like it but of course we
cannot decide one year and a half before the
time. Anything might happen in that time.
If we should stay however it would be two
years from this summer before we should come
home. *
	We have had a continual round of sight-seeing
since we left Southport; have been in London
two weeks now,but intend to start for Hastings
a sea-side place tomorrow. This afternoon we
are going to the Royal Naval Exhibition or
else to the German. Here in London we go
by under-ground or elevated railways instead
of street-cars; they only have street-cars on
the outskirts of the City. *
	One day last week we went to the tower of
London, it is a great gloomy place and looks
as if murders had been committed there. We
stood on the place which is supposed to be the
scene of the murder of the boys Edward V.
and his brother the Duke of York, and stood
on the piece of granite underneath which are
the graves of many great people put into one
upon which the scaffold was put. The heads
of Queen Anna Boleyn, Margaret
Countess of Salisbury, Queen Katherine
Howard, Jane Grey, Robert Devereaux; Earl
of Essex, and Lord Hastings were cut off here.
We saw the block on which were two or three
axe-cuts where the axe had come down after
chopping off their heads, also saw the axe and
the executioner's mask which was horribly ugly.
When Lady Jane Grey was a prisoner in one
part of the Tower, she saw her husband led
forth to be executed on the Tower Green in
front of her window, and saw his headless body
brought to the Chapel, a little away from
Tower Green, "in a carre," while the scaffold
was being prepared for her own death on the
green in front, which took place on the same
day, Monday 12th, Feb. 1554. Wasn't it
horrible?
	Give my love to Josie, and I am going to
write to her when I get her address.
	With love to all the family and yourself
also the boys and girls.
		LIB.


“The announcement of the closing of the
Riggs House, which has been for fifteen years
the headquarters of the National Woman
Suffrage Association, brings a sense of loss to
every one connected with the movement
throughout the nation. Mr. and Mrs. Spofford
have been generous and amiable hosts, and
warm and sympathizing friends, and we can
but hope that they will establish another
hostelry from which the encroachments, of
business will not push them, for we should
hardly know how to have a Washington
Convention without them, as a rallying point.
But next time it must be called the Spofford
House.”


