Y. M. M. I. A.

	A general conference of the Young Men’s
Mutual Improvement Associations opened Sun-
day May 31st, in the Tabernacle in this City;
which was well filled in the morning and crowded
in the afternoon and evening. The excellent sing-
ing was a pleasing feature of the day and added
much to the impressive exercises.
	Discourses were delivered during the morning
by Elder Charles W. Penrose and President
Angus M. Cannon, and an essay by Elder Willard
Young on the subject of Education. Some re-
ports concerning the work of the Associations
were given by the respective superintendents and
Elder Milton H. Hardy gave a summary of his
mission among the organizations in the twenty
stakes he had visited. During the morning
Heber H. Goddard rendered a solo, and the Glee
Club gave the selection “Comrades in Arms.”
	In the afternoon meeting Elder Benjamin Cluff,
of Provo delivered a lecture on Self-culture. A
communication from Pres. Jos. F. Smith ad-
dressed to Pres. W. Woodruff was read by Elder
Junies F, Wells, it contained the sentiments of
the writer on the present condition of the young
men of Zion and their future prospects, and em-
bodied many useful lessons.
	Pres. Wilford Woodruff occupied a short time
in addressing the young men and referred to the
Primary, the Sabbath Schools and the Mutual
Improvement Associations as preparatory in
qualifying the rising generation for their labors
in time and in eternity. Exhorted all to diligence
and faithfulness that were engaged in this work
and besought them to labor while the day lasts.
	Apostle H. J. Grant made some timely remarks
upon the necessity of a testimony of the truth
of the existence of the Creator and of Jesus the
Savior of the world.
	At the evening session Angus T. Wright of
Ogden gave a lecture upon “The Corner Stone of
Character,” Integrity; which was very suggestive
 nd Apostle Moses Thatcher delivered a stirring
address on the “Mission and Opportunities of the
Y. M. M. I. A.” He exhorted the young men to
labor for others as well as to seek to improve
themselves, to imitate the example of the Savior
in good works, to obtain a knowledge of God and
of His Son Jesus Christ whom to know is eternal
life, urged the young men to follow the golden
rule, “To do unto others as you would wish them
to do unto you;” to search out those that were
going astray, that were wanderers in by and for-
bidden paths, and seek to lead them back into
safe ways, not to neglect opportunities of doing
good, cautioned the young men to choose wisely
upon the political subject, admonished them to
seek wisdom like unto Solomon, to study civil
government and the histories of nations; but first
to make Jesus the Rock of their salvation; and
remember that true grateness was only to be
achieved through meekness. Reports from
several stakes were made, and much was said
about the evil influences now being brought to
bear upon the young men of this city, and the
necessity of home-missionary work right here.
The Conference adjourned to June 1st and the
choir sang the Motette “God of Israel,” benedic-
tion by Elder B. H. Roberts.


[Column 1]

