DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	Here are a few lines for your paper if you
think them worth your notice.
	Sister Snow’s speech in your last EXPONENT
brings to mind many recollections, and par-
ticularly of that occasion.
	Some of the sisters who resided, and still
remain in that place, will, no doubt, remember
with pleasure the enjoyable time we had at 
that meeting.  Over twenty years have passed
since then, and many dear ones have gone be-
hind the vail; among the number is Sister
Eliza R. Snow; and although her mortal body
slumbers in the silent grave, her noble works
still live to her honor and praise.
	Sugar House Ward, at that time, reached
as far as the first Ward (and took in what is
now Farmers Ward) also in the opposite direc-
tion a good distance past the penitentiary;
untiring were the desires and efforts of our


dear sisters to glean and bring the fruits of
their labors to help the poor, and comfort the
sick and dying.  Some travelled miles to go
over their district, wading through mud and
mire, day after day; and they were blessed in-
deed.  It was one of the first Societies organ-
ized and in a very scattered condition.
	Only the eighth meeting—how feeble we
were—how small;—how good we felt, how
encouraged, by her comforting words; we re-
ceived new strength and fortitude, more ambi-
tion, feeling really that we were doing some-
thing to help the work along; soothing the
sick and afflicted, relieving the wants of the
poor, helping to carry the burdens of the weary 
and heavy laden, comforting those who mourn,
and endeavoring to reclaim the wayward, and
walk in the straight and narrow way that
leadeth to Eternall ife; this is the kind of work
that brings joy and consolation to the soul.
	I remember well the Relief meetings in
Nauvoo, held in Brother Joseph’s store
situated on Water street, on the banks of the
Mississippi river, on several particular occa-
sions; Brother Hyrum’s Brick office also, a
little further up on the bank of the river
where we used to go to school, and a great
many other things come to our minds when we
refer to long ago; scenes and trials the saints
of God have passed through, since the be-
ginning up to the present time, pass before the
mind like a vision and cause us to reflect
seriously, and our hearts fill with gratitude to
our Heavenly Father, that He has brought us
out from Babylon that we may not be per-
takers of her sore afflictions; that we may have
a chance by obedience to His laws and keep-
ing the commandments, and not going hand 
in hand with the world, but living near unto
Him to prepare ourselves for something bet-
ter.
								C. D. P.


