SALT LAKE CO.
	Minutes of the meeting of the W. S. A. of 
Salt Lake Co., held in the 13th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, May 19th 1891. Pres. E.
Howard in the chair. Prayer by Elizabeth
Mc'Farlane.
	Dr. Elvira S. Barney was appointed to act
as Sec. pro tem. Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	Elizabeth Price read from the compiled
laws of Utah, page 342. Subject, Distribu-
tion of property by Will, and Succession.
	Pres. Howard said that the women of Wyo-
ming had the right of suffrage, and when she
visited there advised them to be united in
voting. But she would also advise that women
here and everywhere study the subject of
politics and learn the position of both Demo-
cratic and Republican parties before express-
ing a desire to unite with either.
	S. M. Kimball, Pres. of the Ter. Ass'n., said
it was proper to make selections from the
Revised Laws of Utah and make a study of
them in our meetings, and thus educate our-
selves pertaining to the laws of our own Terri-
tory. Also thought it would be well to have
a library of our own to select from. Said
many felt the need of help in their homes.
Thought the establishment of an industrial
school would qualify girls for useful labor, but
it required a movement instead of talk only.
Suggested that the Association make a study
of the great political questions of national in-
terests that were now being agitated.
	Emily S. Richards, said she would like to
study up the political subjects and know more
about them before she could intelligently act.
Said Miss Anthony advised the women to have
some hobby as an incentive to action, and if
they had not one, to go and buy one. She re-
ferred to the Day Nursery that she had as a
hobby if she might call it so; and that the
full capacity of it was nineteen, but they never
had less than ten children and that homes were
always provided for them, and that she had a
long list of names of those that were willing to
furnish homes for the unfortunate. The
ladies of this Territory had been organized
for many years, and the women of the world
were being organized in working classes; she
thought that if there could be something done
perhaps in a different way from what we had
done. Our old ladies have been provided for
in the homes of their own kindred but our
population was increasing and there would be
a greater demand and if they could be located
where they could feel it was home, and have
society it would be a happy condition for them.
	Elizabeth Mc'Farlane spoke upon the subject
of taking care of the young girls and watching
over them; that there was a great power with
some men to influence them to go astray, and
all classes of men from the world had come
into our midst.
	Margaret Mitchell said she could not define
her position on the political question untill she
had made the subject of parties a study. Said


in the United States 30,000,000 women are
disfranchised; and that the government had
been in the hands of the few and the people
were ruled by the minority.
	Lillie Freeze urged upon the ladies to sub-
scribe for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT as it was
the only organ the Suffrage Associations had to
publish for them, and keep them posted on
these questions and it ought to be better sus-
tained.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said the subject of wills
had been a leading thought with her, and ad-
vised that the heads of every family should
have in writing a clear statement of the dis-
position of their effects in case they should be
taken away by death, which would save litiga-
tion, and that each member of a family should
be provided for, and not left to suffer at the
expense of another's luxury. She had in her
experience in life known of some sad condi-
tions through neglect of these things, said wo-
men could use their influence in this direction.
Different phases were presenting themselves in
the world's history, and in order to be equal to
and keep pace with these conditions it required
careful study, and great watchfulness.
	Emma Finch, the Cor. Sec. tendered her
resignation on account of absence from the
city.
	The meeting was adjourned until the third
Tuesday in the following month at the same
time and place.
		DR. E. S. BARNEY, Sec., pro tem.


