WEBER CO.
	The Woman's Suffrage Association of Weber
Co. held an interesting meeting in the Third
Ward Assembly Hall on Friday afternoon,
May 15th.
	Besides a good attendance of members
residents in Ogden City, some settlements in
the Country were well represented. The
enrollment list which was read by the secretary
showed a large increase of membership over
last year,
	The President Mrs. E. Y. Stanford regreted,
that owing to sickness in her family, our
Delegate of the Woman's Suffrage Association
recently held in Washington, Mrs. Emily S.
Richards could not be present to report the
services she had rendered on that mission.
	A very entertaining and instructive pro-
gramme was then rendered consisting of a
select reading by Vice President Mrs. C.
Driver, a quartette by Messrs. E. T. Wooley,
H. J. Sears, R. Williams, and H. Anderson,
Miss Lucretia West playing the accompani-
ment, speeches from Messrs Thomas Wallace
and Joseph Stanford. The first speaker in an
interesting and instructive manner refered to
the lives of many prominent women whom
history was proud of because of the many
distinguished positions they had occupied and
of the public good they had rendered.
	The second speaker thought that while it
was but just to concede that man should lead
he being created first, that it was the right of
woman to follow close after in companionable
help, and dwelt largely upon woman's mental
endowments and capability exhibiting her fit-
ness to travel side by side with man in all his
walks and pursuits and enjoy in common all
the rights and privileges of intellectual life.
He did not feel as some men do, that in extend-
ing privilges to women leading to political,

[Column 2]

social, literary, scientific, and professional
preferment and usefulness, that it would
detract from the comforts of home and the
blessings of offspring. It is woman's nature and
destiny to inherit the elements of love, paternal
affection and the desire for home duty, princi-
ples which a true noble woman would not
neglect under any conditions to cultivate, any
more than the honorable husband and father
although he might be called to contribute of
his time, talents and influence for the benefit of
his state or nation.
	Appropriate remarks from the President
closed a meeting of much interest and enjoy-
ment.
	The meeting adjourned for three months.
