MKS. M.	L. RAYNE.

"Learn to labor and to wait."
	To the writers who send out their crude
thoughts and unfledged ideas to the standard
magazines of the country the following remarks
from an authority on the subject may not
come amiss:
	In answer to the question, "What kind of manuscript
de you desire?" Mr. Gilder of the Century says: "The
very best poem, the very best novel, or short story, essay
or descriptive article that can be written in the English
language, and especially by an American writer, is in
constant demand. What a young and ambitious and
unknown writer most needs is not influence or introduc-
tions, but brave and self-searching criticisms, and the
hardest kiud of work in the perfection of his material, be
t verse or prose."
	If these writers would read the magazines
in question, analyze their articles, catch that
snbtile, attractive quality, known as genius,
which has won their acceptance, and then
labor hard to create some poem or paper of
equal merit and interest, there might be a
chance that they would succeed. It might not


be as writers for the higher magazines, but as
humble toilers in the vale of letters. Dr.
Oliver Wendell Holmes works harder to evolve
a bright thought, and does more patient
drudgery to polish and improve it. than any
of the obscure writers would condescend to do.
One who knows him says that he writes, re-
writes, interlines and turns his sentences to
catch every possible reflection of his genius.
It is this constant respect for the art he
practices that gives to his writings their
brilliancy and their rippling flow.
	A new writer who was waiting for inspira-
tion was advised to try a little perspiration. If
an excutioner were appointed and your head
were to come off if you did not produce a good
poem or cheerful essay, you—the laggard in
literature—would achieve something worth do-
ing. There are people who are actually too
lazy to think. They plead that it gives them
a headache. They would call it time wasted
to spend twenty-four hours over the matching
of rhymes in order to get a perfect frame for
a crystallized thought. Yet a thought may be
a winged soul, carrying messages of hope and
comfort to the ends of the earth. We hear of
geniuses in lonely farm-houses bursting full- 
blown upon the waiting world, but we know
nothing of the years during which the
thoughts were worked out, the scenes enacted
in the mind of the writer, and the plot develop-
ed. Of one thing be sure. There was much
painstaking, much labor of love or sorrow, be-
fore the book with its fair leaves reached our
scanning eyes. As an example read the life
of Charlotte Bronte, and see what her prepera-
tion was for writing her great novel Jane
Eyre.
		The Answer.


