MEETING AND FAIR.

	On Thursday morning May 21st, in company
with Mrs. Jane S. Richards we started for Payson
on an early train to attend the annual meeting
and Fair to be held by the Relief Society at that
place; the green fields and blooming fruit trees
along the route were a pleasant picture and rest-
ful alike to the eyes and mind. At Provo we
were joined by Pres. Mary John of the R. S. of
Utah Stake and her First Counselor, Mrs.

[Column 2]

Marilla Daniels a very dear friend of ours to
whom we were fondly attached long ago, away
back in Nauvoo. At the Payson depot we were
met by Mrs. Millie Starke,Pres, of the W. S. A.
of Payson, who informed us that we would both
be expected to speak to the W. S. A. in the
evening. The carriage drove up to the residence
of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas who are widely known
for their generous hospitality. The President of
the Society Mrs. B. J. Simons and others came
with pleasant greetings and welcome, and we
chatted until dinner was announced, and an
elaborate dinner it was. At 2 p. m. we all repaired
to the meeting bouse, where quite a surprise
awaited us in the exhibition of woman's handi-
work. Surely the ladies of Payson Relief Society
are both ingenious and industrious. The meeting
house is quite a large one with a very high pulpit
or stand, and gallery around the three sides very
like the orthodox churches of New England.
The whole interior of the building was decorated
with home needle work such as women do, paint
ing, embroidery etc. A committee of ladies had
charge of the affair whose names we did not learn,
but they had arranged everything very creditably
and the effect was quite striking as well as unex-
pected. It is scarcely possible to mention all, but
the fine old-fashioned patch work, in lilies, tulips,
and rose chains and the exquisite piecing and
quilting deserve at least a passing notice; some
of these quilts we were told had been made by
very old ladies. Of course the painting and em-
broidery was done by younger women and girls,
and here it may not be amiss to say, there are a
great number of fine healthy looking young wo-
men and girls in Payson, as well as elderly ones;
in fact that place is not behind other towns in
Utah in this respect, though of course it is not in
good taste to make comparisons on this subject.
	The silk work on exhibition was especially in-
teresting it being entirely a home production; a
handsome shawl made from the silk raised there
by one of the elderly sisters Grace Wignall is
handsome enough to grace the shoulders of any
lady in the land. It is certainly desirable that
articles of the home-raised silk should be pre-
pared for Utah's exhibit in the World's Fair.
	There was a miniature steamer on the stand
made by one of the boys there, that was really a
work of art, and drew out a great deal of admira-
tion especially from Mrs. Jane S. Richards, who
had not very long since seen a Steamer launched
from San Francisco Bay out on the Pacific ocean.
Such work should have every possible encourage-
ment, in order that the young people may exce-
in these things and not lack appreciation. There
were vases of lovely natural flowers in all avail-
able places and altogether the house was hand-
somely decorated.
	Mrs. B. J. Simons the President of the Society
for twenty-three years, presided at the meeting,
ably assisted by her Counselors Agnes Douglas
and Clarissa Moore. The minutes of the last
annual meeting and reports were read, and Presi-
dent Simons made a few remarks and introduced
Mrs Richards, First Counselor to Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, who addressed the meeting upon subjects
connected with the general work of the Relief
Society and gave much valuable instruc-
tion.
	The other speakers followed in a similar strain
including Mrs. John, Mrs. Daniels and the writer,
and Bishop Jos. Tanner occupied a few moments,
expressed his good feeling and harmony with the
Society and testified to the good spirit of the
meeting.
	Another surprise awaited the visitors, in the.
vestry where tables were spread with all the
luxuries of the season. Bishop Tanner at lhe
head of the table and a few other brethren near
him, but the tables were filled with members of
the Relief Society, waited upon by young ladies
mostly, though we noticed the committee who


had charge of the whole proceedings were also
very busy. The time passed very swiftly in
pleasant conversation and we found on rising from
the table it was nearly the hour for the W. S. A.
to commence their exercises.
	The Payson band was present in full force in
the evening and rendered stirring selections of
patriotic music. The members of the Association
wore the yellow ribbon badge, and all seemed
quite energetic in the good cause. Some young
ladies gave selections on the organ (instrumental)
one of them we were told was the Presbyterian
school teacher at that place.
	The meeting house was well filled quite as many
gentlemen as ladies it seemed, and it is to be
hoped more interest will be awakened on the sub-
ject of equal rights. Mrs. Richards gave some of
our experience in Washington during the sessions
of the National Council and the N. A. W. S. A. Con-
vention this last winter. She also urged upon
the ladies the need of taking suffrage literature
not only to inform themselves upon the subject,
but to keep posted in regard to what is being
done by the women of the world in the cause of
reform. Mrs. Daniels of Provo acted as chaplain
opening and closing with prayer, the Bishop
made a few remarks and expressed his sympathy
with the cause. The music was specially good
and the Association certainly gives hopeful signs
of progress in the right direction.


