MISS WILLARD'S DEFENSE.

	The orthodox clergy of the country have un-
dertaken to censure Miss Frances E. Willard for
presiding at the Woman's National Council over
so many, or keeping company with so many
heterodox women; as they term Unitarians and
Universalists and unbelievers generally. Miss
Willard has made an able defense against their
attacks, and one wonders in reading, how they
are going to get around the arguments she brings
forward, and still consider themselves followers
and disciples of the Savior.
	We quote from Miss Willard's editorial in the
Union Signal the organ of the W. C. T. U. of
which she is the able President.
	The title of the editorial is,
THE MORE EXCELLENT WAY.
	"There are two ways in which the Christian
disciple; can influence his or her time; one is ex-
clusive, the other inclusive; one is provincial, the

[Column 2]

other cosmopolitan; one is the way of separatism,
the other of neighborliness. Each individual is
called upon to choose, and upon the nature of
that choice depends the character of one's career.
Strangely enough there is wide difference of
opinion among devoted disciples of our Lord as
to what was His method of meeting the world.
By precept and practice Christ was a cosmo-
politan; He taught, in the Temple and in the
synagogues of a faith He had come to supersede;
He sat at meat in the homes of rulers, whose
government He came to overthrow; He partici-
pated in great feasts among the rich; He received
publicans and sinners; He made Himself the
friend and brother of each and all. His manner
of life was in the most pointed antithesis to that
of John the Baptist, who came neither eating nor
drinking, and He had to bear the monstrous in-
justice of their criticism who said, "This man is
a glutton and a wine-bibber, a friend of publicans
and sinners."
	"Now look at the Apostle Paul. What does he
say in the ninth chapter of 1 Corinthians: (new
version.)
	"To the jews I become as a Jew that I might
gain Jews; to them that are under the law, as
under the law, not being myself under the law,
that I might gain them that are under the law;
to them that are without law, as without law, not
being without law to God, but under law to Christ,
that I might gain them that are without law. To
the weak I became weak, that I might gain the
weak; I am become all things to all men, that I
may by all means save some. And I do all things
for the Gospel's sake that I may be a joint partaker
thereof."
	Miss Willard's method of Gospel work is com-
pared with that of Mr. Moody by way of illustration
he believed it wrong to speak on the same plat-
form with any one unorthodox and because Miss
Willard thought differently he quoted to her the
passage in the second Epistle of John which
reads, "If there come any unto you and bring not
this doctrine (of Christ) receive him not into your 
house, neither bid him God speed. For he that
biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil
deeds;" and she writing in her journal, "Brother
Moody's Scripure interpretations concerning re-
ligious toleration are too literal for me; the jacket
is too strait; I cannot wear it."
	The Signal, however, states that in the fourteen
years that have elapsed since this utterance "Mr.
Moody has materially modified and broadened
his spirit of toleration."
	After dwelling at some length upon Miss
Willard's position and bringing forward demon-
strative proof of what she has accomplished in
her Christian work, the Signal states that the pur-
pose had been to pass the matter over in silence,
but the continued and unfair statements made,
seemed to call for a replay," through their National
organ. It then sums up the Woman's Council in
paragraphs, First, Second, Third and Fourth.
Here is a part of the first,
	"First, That the Woman's Council is a great
educational, philanthropic and reformatory or-
ganization, like the Social Seience Association,
the Charities and Corrections society, and the
National Educational Association. It is perfectly
colorless in respect of creed. There are women
in it of all faiths and of no faith; Jews, Catho-
lics, Protestants, Spiritualists, Agnostics; even
as there are men of equally varied belief in all
the societies we have named as being analogous
in structure to the Woman's Council. But no
Bishop or D. D. of any church whatever would
be criticised by Christian people for participating
in, or for presiding over the Social Science As-
sociation, the National Educational Covention or
the Society of Charities and Corrections. Nay,
he would be applauded for so doing as an illustra-
tion of Christianity in action.  But this is wo-
man's testing time: she is the prima donna of the


[Column 1]

world's great stage, and all the opera glasses are
leveled at her to see just how she fills her part.
Happier days are ahead, when she will have be-
come a "specimen" duly analyzed and classified,
so that humanity can turn its attention to other
parts of the great field. When good William
Blackstone recently convened in Clark street M.
E. church, Chicago, a group of D. D.'s and
Jewish Rabbis, and several of the latter decried
Christianity as thoroughly as ever Robert G.
Ingersoll was left to do, it was passed over be-
cause Mr. Blackstone belongs to the classified
sex, the center of whose "sphere" is everywhere
and its circumference nowhere."
	After much more careful and comprehensive
reasoning the fourth paragraph of her reply
winds up the matter thusly,
	Fourth, It is claimed that there was disturbance
in the meetings. This is not true. The utmost
quiet and decorum prevailed throughout the eight
sessions and over eighty addresses, save on one
evening when Mrs. Mary Lease, of Kansas, a
gifted and most earnest woman, "the prophet of
and evil time," as Mary Lathrop aptly termed her,
spoke on political conditions in her state. She
had already addressed the Council briefly once, 
to excellent acceptance, but on her second ap-
pearance she called ex-Senator J. J. Ingalls "a
consummate hypocrite," whereupon Republicans
present hissed, and Miss Willard's gavel fell
with clear-cut emphasis, as she said, "There must
be no personalities either on or off the platform."
Mrs. Lease also said that "evil-doers would be
turned into hell," wherein she claimed to have
Scripture on her side!
	"Thus much for the Council, which was the
largest, most representative and most influential
gathering of women the world has thus far seen,
and whose spirit was one of so much mutual
consideration and good will; indeed, was so full
of genuine spiritual power and tenderness that
from first to last, among one hundred delegates
from sixty totally distinct soeieties, there was not
an unkind word, but the song they sang in
pleasantry after choosing their officers, was the
keynote to their official conflusions:"
		"So say we, all of us."


