[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | February | Issue: 7 | Title: EMMA HALE SMITH. | Author: Unknown]

		EMMA HALE SMITH.
READ AT RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS’ MEET-
		ING PIONEER STAKE.
	There are many people who pass
through this life scattering rays of sun-
shine and strewing life’s pathway with
kind and thoughtful acts whose names are
seldom recorded in history.
	Among these might be recorded the
name of Emma Hale Smith, wife of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and first presi-
dent of the Relief Society.
	The subject of this brief sketch was
born July 10, 1804, in Harmony, Susque-
hanna County, Pennsylvania. Her
father, Isaac Hale, was a well-to-do citi-
zen of that place. Of her early life we
are left to our own imagination. The

[Column 2]
daily duties of the eldest daughter of a
family of eight were presumably hers.
	In October, 1825, a young man, Joseph
Smith came to board at the Hale home.
He had been employed by Mr. Josiah
Stoal to assist in digging for a silver mine
in that neighborhood. Mr. Stoal had de-
sired the assistance of this young man be-
cause he had heard that he had certain
means by which he could discern things
invisible to the natural eye.
	While boarding at Isaac Hale’s home,
Joseph Smith began to pay his addresses
to one of the daughters of the family.
The parents of the young lady were very
much opposed to this. They were ac-
quainted with the fact that this young
man had proclaimed to the world that he
had seen a vision, that the Father and
the Son had appeared to him, and they
ignored the statement because their be
lief was that such things were done away
with. They thought they would be dis-
graced in the eyes of their friends if their
daughter should marry such a man.
	Emma Hale was 23 years of age, and
under the law mistress of her own ac-
tions, she made her own decision in favor
of the young man whom she had learned
to respect and love. January 18, 1827,
they went to the home of Squire Tarbill,
in South Bainbridge, Chenango County,
New York, and he performed the mar-
riage ceremony for them.
	Joseph Smith had confided in his
mother in regard to this important step
in life. His mother says: “Joseph called
my husband and myself aside, and said, ‘I
have been very lonely ever since Alvin
died, and I have concluded to get mar-
ried; and if you have no objections to
my uniting myself in marriage with Miss
Emma Hale, she would be my choice in
preference to any woman I have ever
seen.’ We were pleased with this choice
and not only consented to his marrying
her, but requested him to bring her home
with him and live with us.” Consequently
after their marriage Joseph and Emma
went to Manchester, New York State,
and liyed there that season.
	From the very first, persecution was
the lot of this family. Their friends
were few, but these few were true, they
being mostly members of his, Joseph’s,
own family.
	On April 6, 1830, the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints was organ-
zed with six members, Joseph Smith be-
ing the presiding elder. Emma Smith
being converted to the truth of the prin-
ciples advanced was baptized in June,
1830, but on account of persecutions by
mobs was not confirmed as a member un-
til August of the same year.
	From that time until the death of her
husband she honored him in his position
and assisted him in his great work of
ushering in the Gospel of the latter-days.
	In July, 1830, a revelation was given to
Emma Smith, through her husband, in
which the Lord told her His will in re-
gard to certain things. She was called
an Elect Lady, and her office was to

[Column 3]
comfort her husband in his afflictions,
with consoling words in the spirit of
meekness. To travel with him and be
his scribe, when he had no other; accord-
ing to the Spirit, she was to expound the
Scriptures and exhort the Church. She
was to make a selection of sacred hymns
to be used in the congregations of the
Saints, etc.
	This was a great honor to be thus re-
membered and instructed, and those who
were acquainted with her have testified
that during her husband’s lifetime she
lived up to the requirements of the reve-
lation. She was appointed, September
14, 1835, to make a selection of sacred
hymns, which duty she performed, by the
assistance of the Spirit of the Lord, to
the satisfaction of all, and up to the
present time they are rendered with feel-
ing and spirit in all the congregations of
the Saints.
	In 1833 the corner stones of the Kirt-
land Temple were laid and the dedication
of the building occurred March 27, 1836.
Sister Eliza R. Snow writes: “With very
little capital except brain, bone, and sin-
ews combined with trust in God, men,
women, and even children, worked with
their might; while the brethren labored in
their departments, the sisters were active-
ly engaged in boarding and clothing
workmen not otherwise provided for.”
Sister Emma in this trying time did her
part in this great work of rearing the first
temple built in this dispensation.
	The organization of the Female Relief
Society was commenced on the 17th of
March, 1842, and completed on the 24th,
with Emma H. Smith as President, Sarah
M. Cleveland and Elizabeth A. Whitney
Counselors, Eliza R. Snow, Secretary, and
Elvira A. Coules, Treasurer. This or-
ganization was for the relief of the poor,
the destitute, the widow and the orphan
and for the exercise of all benevolent
purposes. During the Missouri persecu-
tions the sisters of the Church had always
been ready to open their doors to the
weary traveler; to divide their scanty pit-
tance with the hungry, and from their
plundered and impoverished wardrobes
divide with the more needy and destitute;
but the opportunity to do this work in an
organized capacity had up to this time
been impossible and unthought of.
	As President of this Society, Sister
Emma was looked up to with respect and
reverence. They could follow her lead-
ership without fear. Her heart was filled
with goodness and generosity, not for a
hope of reward, but for true charity and
love. To all she was kind and consider-
ate and did everything in her power to
assist in the upbuilding of the society and
the attaining of the purpose of its organ-
zation. In the organization of the
branches of the Church and the trials and
persecutions, from within and without,
that her husband was subject to, they had
many homes among them we might
mention those at Harmony, Fayette,
Kirtland, Hiram, Far West and three
at Nauvoo. She was the mother of six


[Column 1]
sons and one daughter, to them she was
ever a kind and affectionate mother and
was untiring in her efforts to enhance
their comfort and pleasure, a great por-
tion of the time having to be both father
and mother to them Besides her own
children she took a pair of twins to raise
a boy and a girl. Sister Emma had given
birth to a pair of twins on April 30, 1831,
both of whom died. The wife of John
Murdock gave birth to a pair of twins the
same day and soon after expired. Sister
Emma toook the motherless twins in the
fond hope that they would fill the void
in her life occasioned by the loss of her
own.
	When made known and explained to
her she accepted the order of celestial
marriage, and in obedience to that law
gave her husband several wives, to whom
she was ever kind and they in return
loved and respected her.
	During the dreadful scourge of sickness
at Nauvoo in the first year of the settle-
ment of that place, she was considered
an angel of mercy, she was so untiring in
her efforts to comfort the sick; and her
presence was a solace to many in their
dying hour. There were so many in dis-
tress, that the Prophet and his wife com-
menced taking the sick into their own
home, with the view of taking care of
them more comfortably. This they con-
tinued to do until their home became so
crowded that they were compelled to
spread a tent for that part of the family
who were still on their feet, in order to
make room in the house for the sick.
	Their home was ever open to the aged
and homeless, a number making it their
permanent home and they were waited
upon and cared for with the greatest of
generosity and patience.
	Sister Emma at that time was indeed
an Elect Lady, one whom everybody
loved that got acquainted with her. It is
very fitting that the Relief Society should
take time to consider and reflect upon the
history of their first president. She had
the honor of being called to that position
by the prophet himself and held the posi-
tion during his lifetime and was every way
qualified for its duties.
	In time of peril she was a wise counsel-
or to her husband: when surrounded by
persecutions and trials she was ever ready
to give comfort and consolation; she ac-
companied him on many perilous journ-
eys in the nighttime, when only the tried
and tested knew of his whereabouts or
errand.
	When occasion permitted she enter-
tained his friends with charming grace,
for she was a lovely woman and a model
hostess.
	When the news was conveyed to her
that her husband had met his death at the
hands of the mob she was overcome with
grief, but bravely bore the burden.
	After the martyrdom of the Prophet
and his brother, the Patriarch, the Twelve
Apostles constituted the presiding Quorum
of the Church. In 1846 Brigham Young
led the saints to the West, where they
hoped to find a home free from mob
rule.
	There seemed to come over Emma
Smith a complete change when the ar-
rangements were made for the removal
to the West. She took no interest in
them, but rather preferred to remain in
her Nauvoo home. Those things that to
her had been most sweet were now most

[Column 2]
bitter. Those people in whom she had
trusted, she confided in no more.
	Some time after the death of the
Prophet she married again, but still con-
tinued to live in what was known as the
New Mansion House until her death
which occurred April 30, 1879.
	On the slope of the hill near the old
home several members of  the family are
buried. The broad Mississippi River
flows near on its way to the sea. In a
somewhat neglected and uncared for spot
is a grave over which lies a flat stone
bearing the inscription:
		Emma Biddamon,
			Born
		July 10, 1804,
			Died
		April 30, 1879.
