[WomansExponent | Vol13 | 1884 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: O, JUSTICE! WHITHER HAST THOU | Author: E. R. SNOW SMITH]

O, JUSTICE! WHITHER HAST THOU
FLED?

	Let our eye look upon Zion. Let her be defiled.
	But they knew not the thoughts of the Lord.—Micah
IV, 11,12.
	Let us enter the private sanctuary of domes-
tic life, where, to the honor of this great re-
public, the divinity of the marriage tie is ac-
knowledged and held sacred; and where purity,
the crowning glory of the social circle, is bravely
and successfully protected.
	Let us there, with wanton cruelty, defy the
Constitution of our country, and by trampling
on the rights of conscience, sever the holy ties
of wedlock—separate husband and wife—pa-
rents and children, and ignore the finest affec-
tions of the human heart.
	Yes; let us cause thousands of honorable, lov-
ing wives to be stigmatized as prostitutes, and
their offspring, as bastards.
	Let us cause multitudes of innocent children,
that are now being tenderly cherished and care-
fully educated, to be branded with infamy, and
deprived of heirship.
	Let us desecrate their homes, and exterminate
the only people of whom this nation can truly
boast as protectors of purity and innocence; lest
their virtuous and honorable example shall, in
the present reign of corruption, rise up before us
as a burning reproof.
	Let us immure in loathsome prisons those
brave men, who, for the sake of worshiping God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, left their homes and the graves of their
noble ancestors, and sought refuge in the sterile
American Desert; where, nerved by the power
of faith in the arm of the Great Jehovah, for a
while they battled with the elements for life,
and at length, with indomitable energy, over-
came the barrenness of the soil, and made the
"Deseret blossom as the rose."
	Those are the men, whe, with their stalwart

[Column 2]

sons, the noble offspring of plural, celestial
marriage, with stern, unyielding persevarance,
establishe a connecting link between the com-
mercial cities of the East, and the rich mining
districts of the West, and made practicable for
the nation, the continental transit of the "iron
horse."
	Let us erace from the book of remembrance
the countless deeds of hospitality and generosi-
ty bestowed by those early settlers of the wilder-
ness, on our emigrants,when their supplies were
exhausted, as they were wending their way
through to California.
	Let us plant the seeds of devastation in a
thriving, peaceful, honest, industrious commun-
ity—a Territory brought into existence and
made to flourish, without aid, protection, or en-
couragement from the government under which
it exists.
	Yes. let us abregate the rights of its founders,
insomuch that henceforth it shall be controlled
by gamblers and speculators—those who have
no interest in common with the people.
	Instead of the Territory of Utah as it had be-
come—a theme of boast, as a nucleus of peace,
good order and happiness; let us, through our
crushing policy, exhibit it to the nations abroad
as a spectacle of confusion, desolation and 
woe.
	Let us tear away that mighty shield of the
rights of concience, and protector of the rights
of citizenship, our glorious Constitution—let us
place our veto on the commands of the Al-
mighty, and presume to me sure arms with the
Great Ruler of the Universe.
	Thus saith the President, and thus saith the
Congress of the United States of America, by
passing unconstitutional bills, and in appointing
and forcing upon Utah a Commission composed
of men with undeveloped consciences, who as-
sume preogatives, powers,and authority beyond
their investment: who having inagurated an
obnoxious compulsory test oath to screen the
lecherous and punish the pure, complacently
smile when the inalienable rights of local citi-
zens are trampled upon, and the judicial sanc-
tum, which should be an emporium of justice
and equity, is transformed into a nest of conspira-
tors—an equisitorial caldron.
		E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 7, 1885.


[Column 1]
