LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in November. COLONIZATION FROM BABEL. (Note.  Our modern geographies and histories group the human family according to physical features, such as a cross section shape of the hair, complexion, and shape of the skull, as to whether it is relatively long or broad. But the ethnologists' classification is unsuited to our genealogical work (e. g. see I Nephi 2:23 and IT Nephi 5:21, 22 for Indian's complexion). We generally look up our lineage. For that reason we need to seek out those histories which treat of peoples from a genealogical point Of view. Of all historians those who have understood, more or less, the purposes of the God of Israel have given best place to the lineal historical account. We therefore are compelled to hold somewhat close to the standard church works.) In our last lesson we pointed to traits and institutions of the Teutonic peoples which strongly indicate that they are of the lost tribes of Israel. This places us in a position by which we can identify them with their ancestors in the house of Noah, namely,, Shem (See Genesis 11: 10-26 and Matt. 1:2). Let us bear in mind that modern revelation teaches us that antediluvian civilization, which was the 'heritage of the family of Noah was developed upon what we now call the American continent (See Doc. and Cov. 116 and 107:53). For the ancestry of Noah see Doc. and Cov. 107:41-52; Genesis 5:l-32. It is with the descendants of Noah that our brief historical introduction is principally concerned, and for this we begin with the period from the Flood to the confusion of tongues at the Tower of Babel. This latter event took place about 2200 B. C. and about 150 years (some say 300 years) after the Flood. In Ether 1:33 we read, "Jared came forth with his brethren and their families, with some others and their families, from the great Tower, at the time the Lord confounded the language of the people, and swear in his wrath that they should be scattered upon all the face of the earth; and according to the word of the Lord the people were scattered (See Gen. 11:l-9). The central fact here is that the people were scattered from the locality of the valley of the Tigris-Euphrates river valley. And when they begin to write their own histories we find them, generally speaking, in somewhat independent city-states. Then follows a period of conquest and growth into kingdoms, and empires, and here and there a nation. The important question for this lesson is. To what part of the earth did the descendants of the three sons of Noah migrate? The reasons for the migrations and the directions of colonization are interestingly told by Josephus in his Antiquities of the Jews, chapters IV and V, Book I: "The sons of Noah were three. Shem, Japhet, and Ham, born one hundred years before the deluge. These first of all descended from the mountains into the plains, and fixed their habitation there and persuaded others, who were greatly afraid of the lower grounds on account of the flood, and so were very loth to come down from the higher places, to venture to follow their example. Now the plain in which they first dwelt was called Shinar. God also commanded them to send colonies abroad, for the thorough peopling of the earth, that they might not raise seditions among themselves, but might cultivate a great part of the earth, and enjoy its fruits after a plentiful manner: but they were so ill instructed, that they did not obey God, for which reason they fell into calamities, and were made sensible by experience of what sin they had been guilty of; for when they flourished with a numerous youth, God admonished them again to send out colonies: but they, imagining that the prosperity they enjoyed was not derived from the favor of God. but supposing that their own power was the proper not obey him. Nay cause they of the plentiful added to this condition they to disobedience were the in. divine will, the suspicion that they were ordered to send out separate 
 colonies, that, being divided asunder, they might the more easily he oppressed. "Now it was Nimrod who excited them to such an affront and contempt of God; he was the grandson of Ham, the son of Noah, a bold man. and of great strength of hand. He persuaded them not to ascribe it to God, as if it were through his means that they were happy, but to believe that it was their own courage that procured that happiness. He also gradually changed the government into tyranny, seeing no other method turning men from the fear of God, but to bring them into a constant dependence on his own power. He also said, "He would be revenged on God. if he should have a mind to drown the world again; for that he would build a tower too high for the waters to be able to reach, and that he would avenge himself on God for destroying their forefathers. "Now the multitude were very ready to follow the determination of Nimrod, and to esteem it a piece of cowardice to submit to God; and they built a tower, neither sparing any pains, nor being at any degree negligent about the work: and by reason of the multitude of hands employed in it, it grew very high sooner than any one could expect, but the thickness of it was so great, and it was so strongly built, that thereby its great height seemed, upon view, to be less than it really was. Tt was built of burnt brick, cemented together with mortar, made of bitumen, that it might not be liable to admit water. When God saw them acting so madly. he did not resolve to destroy them utterly, since they were not grown wiser by the destruction of the former sinners, but he caused a tumult among them by producing in them divers languages, and causing that through the multitude of those languages, they should not be able to understand one another. The place wherein they built the tower is now called babYlon, because of the coNfusion of that language which they readily understood in fore, for the Hebrew means by the word Babel, confusion. The Sibyl* also makes mention of the tower, and of the confusion of the language, when she says thus: 'When all men were of one language, some of them built an high tower, as if they would thereby ascend to heaven, but the gods sent storms of wind, and overthrew the tower, and gave every one his peculiar language; anil for this reason it was that the city was called Babylon.' Rut as to the plain of Shinar. in the country of Babylonia. Icterus mentions it when he says. 'Such of the priests as were saved took thc sacred vessels of Jupiter Enyalius, and came to Shinar or Babylonia.' "After this they were dispersed abroad on account of the difference of their language, and went out by colonies every- *Tlic Sibylline hooks were a sort of bible of the Romans. v/here; and each colony took possession of that land unto which God led them, so that the whole continent was filled with them, both the inland and the maritime countries. There were some also who passed over the sea in ships, and inhabited the islands; and some of those nations still retain the denominations which were given them by their first founders, but some have lost them, and some have only admitted certain changes in them, that they might be more intelligible to the inhabitants; and they were the Greeks who became the authors of such mutations; for when, in after ages they grew potent, they claimed to themselves the story of antiquity, giving names to the nations that sounded well in Greek, that they might be better understood among themselves, and setting agreeable forms of government over them, as if they were a people derived from themselves." For the colonization of America, we read in Ether 1:40-43: "And it came to pass that the Lord did hear the brother of Jared, and had compassion upon him, and said unto him, Go to and gather together thy flocks, both male and female of every kind; and also the seed of the earth of every kind, and thy families; and also Jared thy brother and his family; and also thy friends, and their families, and the friends of Jared and their families. And when thou hast done this, thou shalt go at the head of them down into the valley, which is northward. And there will I meet thee, and I will go before thee into a land which is choice above all the lands of the earth. And there will I bless thee and thy seed and raise up unto me of thy seed, and of the seed of thy brother, and they who shall go with thee, a great nation. And there shall be none greater than the nation which I will raise up unto me of thy seed, upon all the face' of the earth. And thus I will do unto thee because this long time ye have cried unto me." The Lord brought this colony upon the western coast of North America. For the colonization of Europe. Asia, and Africa, from Babel, in a general, loose way, for mental classification, we may say Japheth's descendants colonize Europe; Shem's, Asia; and Ham's. Africa. But there are noteworthy exceptions. The basis for this classification in colonization is the Bible and Josephus (See Gen. 10, and Josephus Antiquities of the Jews, Book I, Chapter VI. In a general way Europe was colonized from the northern shores of the Mediterranean sea by the descendants of Japheth. and the expansion was towards the north and northwest. Their chief exceptions referred to above are that Asia Minor (excepting Lydia and Armenia) Media and the land of the Scythians were peopled by Japhetic lineage. Shem's descendants located in the Tigris-Euphrates valleys, Syria, Lydia, Armenia, Persia, and Bactria. The children of Ham in the Nile river valley (see Book of Abraham 1:21-23) and northern Africa, the chief exception to 
 these being that they were also located on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean in Phoenicia, Palestine, and at Babel. We must not entertain the thought that there were great walls separating these peoples, for there was constant intermingling as we see in Rebekah's and the daughters of complaint Heth (Gen.later27:46 on, toand Isaac1:15). concerning Jacobis Our aim to acquire a general classified view, though indefinitely defined. In the discussion of this lesson there should be a map of the world before the members of the organization. QUESTIONS. Where was the antediluvian civilization, which was the social inheritance of the 'family of Noah, developed? During what period of time? (See Doc. and Cov. Lectures on Faith II). In a general way, who colonized the American and the Old World continents from Babel? About when did this period of colonization begin? Who first moved into the plains? Why were the people scattered abroad? (Cite authorities in answering the above questions.) LITERATURE Third Week in September. STORTES FROM SCRIPTURE. "Back to the Bible" is one of the stirring calls in these trying days. Why? Because the Bible is the Book of books. Within its pages are the found tured with the of choicest truths of life Every stories. 'plainly told should home and vividly know pic the Rible; every father should make it a companion, a binding link between him and his children, and every mother should make its stories a means of inculcating the gospel in the hearts of her liltle ones. It is not enough to trust this work to the Sabbath school or other organizations. We should have a scripture story hour frequently in every home. This does not mean that every story in the good book should be given indiscriminately to children. Some stories from scripture cannot beunded stood by the immature child. But there are many stories which are within his grasp. Such tales should be read for his delight and his development. The story of Joseph has been referred to in these lessons before as one of the master stories in all literature. It may be read again and again with never failing charm. Its pictures of the Patriarch Jacob, with his family in their nomadic life, and its following of the fortunes of the pure-minded boy Joseph in his rise from the position of servant to that of prime minister of the great nation of Egypt, wherein he fulfills the dreams of his boyhood, all make a story so dramatic in its appeal as to hold both young and old. The story of Moses is likewise full of interest. Think of the stirring situation that makes the beginning of this tale: The babes of the Israelites are to be slain. To save her boy, the mother of Moses is inspired to set him afloat in an ark of rushes on the Nile where the princess is wont to bathe. This queenlv woman comes, and sees the child. Her heart is touched. She takes the dimpled babe for her own; the little maid in waiting is sent to find a Hebrew nurse, and the child's own mother is brought to rear her own son in the palace of the Pharaoh. Moses is brought up as an Egyptian prince, schooled in all the learning of that people; but his heart is trained by his mother. She holds him in the path of righteousness against all the allurements and the teachings of the worldly-minded Egypt. He rises to be the great leader of his oppressed people, the mighty lawgiver to chosen Israel, delivering them from bondage and restoring them to the Land of Promise. This is a story which should be heard often in our homes. It ought to be a constant source of sweet comfort and inspiration to our Latter-day Saint mothers. Their teachings born of love are often far more powerful to hold the hearts of their children true to the faith than they may imagine. The story of Abraham and Isaac carries also a deep and abiding lesson to those whose souls are ready to receive it a lesson of trust in God and the blessings that come from the spirit of sacrifice. In the story of the expulsion of our first parents from the Garden of Eden is also a lesson of profound significance. How many men and women every day are being driven from their Garden of Eden because of their disobedience to the commandments of the Lord? As has been pointed out before, the Bible story is not only charming in its interest as a literary tale, but it is always true to life and true to truth. Between its lines may ever be found some lesson of vital importance to mankind. The child may not catch this message at first hearing, nor at second. It is not necessary that he does. Let him enjoy the story as a story. Read it in its sweet simple language from the Bible or tell it plainly. The clay will come when its deeper meanings will come to give new joy to his heart. The wooing of Rebecca, the story of Ruth, the birth of Samuel and his boyhood in the temple, are tales that reflect the gentler side of Hebrew life. They breathe an atmosphere of the patriarchal times and customs, of innocence and purity in court- 
 ship and marriage, and the rearing of children. Stories of this kind are too little heard in our homes in these days. We need more of this kind of tales. Another type of story, that challenges the interest of our boys especially, is that which breathes the martial spirit of Israel. The stories of Joshua, of Gideon, and of Samson, of David and Saul, all have a thrilling interest for the martial-minded boy, even as has that other martial scriptural story, the two thousand young Lamanites who followed Ilelaman as related in the Book of Mormon. Such war stories are wholesome. They bring before him heroes whose lives are worth emulating and when they make ishment mistakes, these heroes feel God's swift reproof and pun. Another class of Bible stories that leaves the right feeling in the hearts of boys and girls is that typified by the story of Daniel the boy who learned to live in Babylon and yet partake not of her sins. 1 f any tale is needed among our people today it is such as this. The story of Daniel is in a measure the Word of Wisdom verified. "Daniel," the story tells us, "purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank, therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. "Now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the prince of the eunuchs. "And the prince of the eunuchs said unto Daniel. I fear my Lord the King, who hath appointed your meat and drink. . . Prove thy servants. T beseech thee, ten days; and let them give us pulse to eat, and water to drink. "Then let our countenances be looked upon before thee, and the countenances of the children that eat of the portion of the king's meat; and as thou seest, deal with thy servants. And he assented and proved them ten days. "And at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat. "Thus Melzar took away the portion of their meat, and the wine that they should drink; and gave them pulse. "As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams" (Daniel 1:8-17). In these days when physical vigor and clearness of mind and strength of spirit are all so vital, the story of Daniel, and the Word of Wisdom which his ways of life exemplified should come to us with added force. The New Testament stories also are ever new. From the sweet story of the angels and the shepherds to the tragic tales of Calvary, there is a never failing interest for all earnest, pure minded people, old and young. Turn to any part of the New Testament and you will find some story breathing the gentle spirit of the Master. Every one carries a divine lesson in the clearest, simplest language. The adoration of the magi, the boy Jesus in the temple, the miracle at Cana, the stilling of the tempest, the raising of Lazarus, the woman at the well, the anguish in Gethsemane, the crucifixion and the resurrection, with the other stories that are there woven together make the greatest story ever told, and each and every one is like a prayer and a benediction. The parables of Christ, too  those of the talents, the sewer, the prodigal son, and others are also filled with truth and wisdom. In addition to all these stories from the Old and the New Testaments, the Latter-day Saints have a wealth of scriptural stories in the Book of Mormon. This gift to the people in he last dispensation is filled with wholesome and intensely interesting tales which are holding the attention of readers everywhere. The Book of Mormon quietly through its stories is preaching the gospel to all nations and peoples. The story of the wanderings of Lehi and his sons, the struggles between the Nephites and the Lamanites in this land, and the tragic close of it all at Cumorah make many tales of dramatic interest. These may yet be the basis for expression through music, art, and literature. A scripture story hour in every home frequently or at least every Sabbath day might do much to stir in the hearts of both parents and children a clearer understanding and a deeper appreciation of these stories, and it would certainly be a means of creating a greater love for the sacred books God has given to us. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Give a reason why the stories of the Bible are ever new. 2. Be ready to tell one of these stories from scripture and point out the lesson of life that it carries. 3. What great consolation for mothers may come from the story of Moses? 4. What pictures of Hebrew life are brought out in the story of Ruth? 5. Why are the Bible heroes generally good for boys to emulate? 6. What lesson of especial force is emphasized in the story of Daniel? 7. Tell some story from the New Testament that has especially comforted or impressed you. 8. What Book of Mormon story do you best remember?