HOME AFFAIRS.

	"A Venerable Woman" is again omitted for
want of time to prepare the copy, but we have
some interesting items for the next issue.
	Independence Day, the glorious Fourth, is to
be celebrated at Fort Douglas with music, songs,
orations, reading of the Declaration of Indepen-
dence and other appropriate demonstrations of
a like character. Various games and amuse-
ments for the young people make a desirable
programme.
	ON Saturday, June 10th, Sisters M. P. Young,
E. C. Clawson and C. Cobb attended a special
meeting at East Mill Creek, called for the pur-
pose of organizing a Primary Association. Bish-
op Neff presided and Sister Clawson organized.
The following officers were unanimously sus-
tained: Fanny E. Oliver, President; F. M. Neff
and E. E. Fisher, Counselors; Mamie Neff, Sec-
retary; Eva Fisher, Treasurer. Twenty-seven
members were enrolled.
	PREPERATIONS are going steadily on for the
concerts in the Tabernacle in this city on the
24th of July. They will be very interesting in-
deed; one thousond or more of the sweet sing-
ers of Zion in the choruses will surely be an at-
traction. The best orchestral music and the
most popular singers Utah can boast will take
part in the programme. Posters and pro-
grammes will soon bo issued. The concerts are
under the direction of Evan Stephens, the
children's favorite.

[Column 2]
	CORRECTION: In the EXPONENT of June 15th,
on 3rd column of 1st page, 23rd line, the word
AND has been omitted, altering the sense
somewhat; the word AND should be inserted
so as to make it read, "there and at Brigham
Young's"
	THE Tenth book of the Faith Promoting
Series has been issued recently from the Juven-
ile Instructor Office. It is entitled, "Scraps of
Biography," and contains, "Sketch of an El-
der's Life," Father John Tanner; "Incidents of
Experience," Daniel Tyler; and Newel
Knight’s Journal. The book is exceedingly in-
teresting, containing many powerful testimo-
nies to the truth, the healing of the sick,
prophecies fulfilled and manifestations calcula-
ted to strengthen the faith of the young.
These excellent works should be in the homes
of all the Latter-day Saints, and certainly in
the libraries of the young folks.
	Sisters P. L. Kimball and H. M. Whitney
attended the Ladies Conference of Tooele Stake,
held at Grantsville, Saturday and Sunday.
There was a good attendance and an excellent
feeling among the people. On Monday the sis-
ters went over to Tooele and met with each of
the organizations' Relief Society, Y. L. M. I.
A. and P. A. From there to Pine Canyon,
where they had three meetings again, then at
St. Johns, and then at Vernon. On returning
they attended a meeting at Clover Creek where
Bishop de St. Joer organized a Relief Society,
with Mrs. Jemima Stookey as president. While
in the Stake the sisters visited among the sick
and administered to many, comforting and en-
couraging the sisters in their labors. We have
some reports for publication, but have not space
in this issue.
	ON Wednesday, January 20th, two Women's
meetings were held in Farmer's Ward, one at
ten a.m. to reorganize the Primary Association.
Mrs. Sarah Ann Cannon, the former Presi-
dent having resigned on account of moving
from the Ward, Mrs. Reba Pratt was chosen to
act aa President. Sisters Zina D. H. Young, M.
I. Horne, P. Woodruff, B. W. Smith, M. E.
Kimball, M. P. Young, Louie Felt, Ellen C.
Clawson and Camilla Cobb attended the meet-
ing. A sumptous dinner was prepared by the
sisters at the residence of Mrs. Angie Frink,
and at two p.m. a meeting of the Rslief Society
was held, Mrs. Emma Woodruff presiding.
	TUESDAY, June 19th, a meeting was held in
the Seventh Ward school house, Bishop Wm.
Thorne presiding, for the purpose of reorganizing
the Relief Society. Sisters M. I. Horne and E.
B. Wells were present by invitation. Bishop
Thorne placed in nomination Mrs. Mary Alice
Lambert as President to fill the vacancy caused
by the death of the late President, Mrs. Alice
Needham. Mrs. Lambert chose as her Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Harriet Woodbury and Mrs. Annie
Dinwoodey; Mrs. Mary Alice Woodbury was
chosen as Secretary; Mrs. Ella Broadbent, As-
sistant Secretary; and Mrs. Mary Alice Lam-
bert, Treasurer. These sisters were unanimous-
ly sustained by vote, and set apart under the
hands of Bishop Thorne and Counselors, Mc-
Lachlin and Woodbury.


