THOUGHTS ON MARRIAGE.

	The May 15th number of the EXPONENT
contains an article entitled, "Young Ladies and
Matrimony," which I think every young lady
should read, and follow the advice there given.
The writer says, "a woman who marries a man
that is her inferior, wrongs herself, her family,
and her whole life, for he will most likely drag
her down to his level." It must be so in the
very nature of things. A woman who has no
other object or aim than to live the life of a
true Latter-day Saint, and work out for herself
an exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom of God,
and feels the full weight of the responsibility
which she takes upon herself when she enters
into the marriage covenant, to bear the souls
of men, heirs to the everlasting Priesthood,
makes no other calculation than to be one with
her husband in all things, for "except ye are
one ye are not mine," said our Savior. She
looks for a man who is faithful. She marries
one professing full faith in the gospel, profes-

[Column 2]
sing to be virtuous and good, knowing by her
course of conduct in life what standard he
must come up to in order to become her hus-
band, he is all that and more too, he has no
vices, if he has any bad habits she cannot find
them out, when he approaches her he is all
goodness; when she is united to him she strives
with all her might to be one with him in all
things, after she becomes better acquainted
with him and sees that he is not what he pro-
fesses to be, although her whole soul revolts at
the hypocrisy (for hypocrisy is always detesta-
ble to a pure mind) still she remembers the
covenants she has entered into with him, they
must not be lightly broken, although he may
ignore them every day she must cling to him
as long as there is a reasonable doubt in her
mind about whether she would be doing him
an injustice by leaving him; in trying honestly
before God to keep her covenants and be one
with him, she descends to his level, and until
she has strength to break loose from the in-
fluences by which she is surrounded and say,
"as for me I will serve the Lord," she is not
her natural self, she is influenced and directed
by him, as is right and proper, as I contend,
that when a woman finds out that a man is not
worthy of her love and obedience, she commits
a sin by living with him; and on the other
hand I think she is not justified and should
never separate herself from him until she is
satisfied of this fact beyond a doubt. Young
ladies will ask, how can we safely choose a
husband if men are so deceitful? There are
many safeguards thrown around the children
of the Latter-day Saints which those of
the world are not blest with. First, their
parents generally give them good counsel,
which if they heed will lead them in the path of
safety, then those to whom they wish to be uni-
ted, live in some ward or branch of the Church
where there are presiding officers who can
recommend them if they have been faithful in
the discharge of their duties in the church,
(and if they have not they had better have
nothing to do with them) then last, but not
least, there is the Holy Ghost, the Comforter,
that has been conferred upon every soul that
has been baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, by those holding
the authority of the Holy Priesthood, a con-
stant source of revelation to those who nourish
and cherish it and give heed to its promptings;
what! can young ladies receive revelations?
Yes; just as well as the President of the
Church, or the Bishop of a ward can in the
affairs that come within their sphere, but only
as pertains to their own affairs in life, and
what is of more importance to them than
choosing a partner for life? no! for time and
all eternity. Pray about it? Yes, is it not as
important the Lord should guide us in the
choice of a husband as it is that he should pro-
tect us through the day from accident, disease,
and death? Pray as well as watch. She says,
"marry for love, respect is all very well, and
that we should have and hold, but it will not
answer in place of affection." I agree with
her, but there is no lasting love that is not
based on respect, we may love a person for
their fancied virtues, and when we find an ab-
scence of them we lose the respect we enter-
tained for them, then love must die. "The
flower of love can never flourish except it is
moistened by the dews of admiration and res-
pect." Young ladies, do not think that you
alone are sufficient to make a selection, remem-

[Column 3]
ber that God is the father of your spirits and
the spirits of all men; He knows their hearts,
their most seeret thoughts, their aims, their
principles, and he knows yours also, he knows
the end from the beginning, he knows whom
you are fitted to mate with, he is the best
match-maker that I know of. Trust him and he
will not forsake you. Now some people (wise
people no doubt in some things) ridicule the
idea of love. (From being united to such de-
liver me." One of the greatest commandments
which our Father gave to his children was to
"Love the Lord our God with all our might,
mind and strength, and love our neighbors as
ourselves, (if this commandment was strictly
carried out we would love them better than we
do.) He so loved the world that he gave His
only Begotten Son as a ransom for us, He so
loved us that he created this beautiful earth
and placed us upon it, with our agency, the
privilege of doing as we pleased, commanding
us to do right, and keep his laws, but giving us
the power to rebel if we choose to do so, that we
might choose the good or the evil, that we may
by his help overcome our weaknesses and the
temptations of the adversary, rise in the scale
of intelligence, and finally become like Him,
and return home when we are fitted to enjoy
His presence and have finished our probation
here. Trials are necessary for our perfection,
and the Lord will try us, (if we are worthy of
trials) in whatever condition we may be
placed, but his grace is all sufficient.
	What among all the pleasures which this
world affords, can equal that of being sur-
rounded by loving kindred and friends, and
what has ever been revealed by our Father
that has given such exquisite joy as the knowl-
edge that husbands and wives who are united
together in the bonds of the new and everlast-
ing covenant will enjoy each others society,
not only "till death does them part," but
through all the countless ages of eternity, and
that instead of that love which they have for
each other growing dim with age, it will grow
brighter and stronger as our latent powers are
more fully developed and we assimilate more
to the likeness of Him who is the author of
our being. Why, it is the mainspring of all
other joys! I cannot believe that there can
be a perfect love that does not come from God,
and is not inspired by His Spirit.
	Oh! what can be more pitiable than the
condition of those who have no assurance of a
union with those they love beyond the grave.
What would eternal life be without the com-
panionship of loved ones? Eternal misery.
	Do not attempt to reform bad men; what
God has failed to do, and they have no dispo-
sition to do for themselves, you can never ac-
complish. Make yourselves worthy of the
best of men and then resolve with the help of
God to accept no other, nobler far would it be
to labor all your days and share with others;
accept plural marriage with a husband who
has been tried and proven, whose integrity to
the kingdom of God is known, and feel you
have made a success of your life, have accom-
plished the object for which you came here,
have secured eternal life, than fail in this and
gain the wealth of the world.		RUTH.


The Woman's Journal of June 16 ult., con-
tains an article concerning woman suffrage in
Utah, and refers to two other articles written
by ladies opposed to women voting.


14 

