CORRESPONDENCE.
Burkes Garden, Tazwell Co., Va.,
				June 11th, 1883.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Thinking you would like to hear from me, and
of my success in the missionary field, and hav-
ing just got back from a trip through Withe,
Pulaski and Giles Counties, I take the opportun-
ity of writing. I have been released from my
former field of labor, in Smythe and Bland
Counties, and have been appointed to labor in an
entire new field, where they have never heard
the Gospel. My brother Golden is traveling with
me now. We met with considerable opposition
on our trip, especially in Withe and Pulaski.
We were not able to get places to stop at over
night, only at public houses, there y having to
walk long distances in the hot son; we were
turned away from seventeen places in two days.
Could get no places to hold meetings at all; but
we never allowed ourselves to become discour-
aged, but we were determined they should have
a testimony of some kind and insisted on them
taking our tracts and reading them, thereby
leaving them no excuse as regards being igno-
rant of the Gospel. After we got into Giles Co.,
we met an entirely different kind of people, hos-
pitable and kind, those with whom we came in
contact. We tried several days to get a place to
preach in, but were unsuccesssful until  met
with a Campbellite Deacon, who gave us the
privilege of preaching in their Church, provid-
ing we would not preach Mormonism, but if we
would take the Bible all well and good; this was
easily promised. (This was a prominent man
and one of education too;) we explained to him
what Mormonism consisted of. He was con-
siderably surprised. We held our meeting, and
I had the pleasure of bearing my testimony to
the most intelligent congregation that it has
been my lot to address since I have been here;
they paid strict attention, and I could see that
our words carried conviction to their hearts and
struck tender chords. At the close of the meet-
ing a number came up to us and made them-
selves acquainted, kindly inviting us to come
and see them whenever we came through that
neighborhood. We truly felt thanklul to God
for those kind friends, raised up for us in time of
need. We made the acquaintance of some of
the best families in the Co, and were treated
kindly by them; one in particular, Mr. Daniel
Cecil, who gave us a standing invitation to come
and see him. He is a man of wealth and educa-
tion, and very liberal in his views; seemed very
anxious to read our Church Works, which we
will take pleasure in furnishing him with. We
were truly blest on our trip, and feel to thank
God from the bottom of our hearts. We have an
invitation to preach in a Presbyterian Church
as we go back.
   On our homeward trip we stopped with a Mr.
John Allen; during the night his little two year
old son was taken very sick with the flux, which
is fatal in this country. He came into our room
during the night and acted as though he wished
us to do something, said but little, turned round
and went out. As soon as we arose we stepped
into the room to inquire about the child; there
they sat, both of them, crying as though their
hearts would break; it was a very sick child in-
deed. She, Mrs. Allen, came up to me and said,
"If you can do anything for him for God’s sake
do it.” I asked them if they would like to have
us adminster to the child, they said yes. We
knelt down and prayed, then laid  our hands up
on the child, rebuking the disease in the name


of Jesus. In a few moments it sank to sleep
the fever left it; our prayers were answered.
When we left they God blessed us over and over.
I told them not to give us the praise, but God
the Eternal Father; we were only humble in-
struments in his hands. This is the second
case of healing under our hands, the other being
a lady belonging to the Church; she had been
suffering from a chronic disease of nine years
standing; she was healed immediately. These
are great testimonies to us, and we feel to give
praise where praise is due. I enjoy my labors,
and feel to be energetic and wide awake and em-
ulate the example of all good men. I have
traveled in several counties, borne my testi-
mony whenever I could get the chance. I have
a good companion in my brother, one who has
got the spirit of his mission. I feel to thank my
Father in heaven for this mission, and hope
that I can fill it with honor is the greatest de-
sire of my heart. Remember me to all inquir-
ing friends. With kind love to self and family,
I remain,
	Your affectionate nephew,
