IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, in Nephi, Juab Co., June 11th, 1883, Amelia
H. Goldsbrough, wife of Brother Henry Goldsbrough.
Deceased was born December 7th, 1814, at Little Com-
mon, Yorkshire, England. Was baptized by Samuel
Wood, October 20th, 1847. Emigrated with her hus-
band in 1857 to Salt Lake City, and came to Nephi in
1863. Was called and set apart by Bishop Bryan to
preside over the Nephi Relief Society, June 23rd, 1868,
which positioe she filled with honor and satisfaction
until February 28th, 1878, when she was chosen and set
apart by President Teasdale to preside over the Juab
Stake Relief Societies, Nephi, Mona and Levan; was
faithful to her duties. She won the love and affection
of the officers and members over whom she presided.
	The remains were followed from her residence to the
Meeting House by her family and relatives, her coun-
selor and secretary, the board and teachers of the Nephi
Society, the President of Mona Society, officers of Lev-
an Society ,and members of the Nephi Society.
	President Paxman, Patriarch J. G. Bigler, C. H. Bry-
an, G. Kendall and C. Sperry made very appropriate re-
marks, aided by the Spirit of God, comforting the be-
reaved that were present, and a fervent prayer by Broth-
er Joel Grover to God onr Heavenly Father for His bles-
sings to rest upon the family and bereaved husband,
who is now on a mission to England.
	The Nephi Brass Band was in attendance, and her re-
mains were conveyed to the Cemetery, followed by her
family and many friends.						COM.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT, adopted by the Relief So-
ciety of Nephi, June 14th, 1883.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of our Stake
President, Sister Amelia Goldsbrough:
	Whereas, it has pleased Almighty God, by the hand
of death, to take from us our beloved President.
	Resolved, That we recognize in her death the loss of
an able and worthy President.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past untiring, energetic
and faithful labors in the path of duty worthy of our
highest appreciation and emulation.
	Resolved, That we, sensibly feeling our loss, sincerely
and deeply condole and sympathize with her family and
friends, and absent husband in their bereavement, and
may we long remember her good example of patience
and perseverance in the path of duty, and strive to
walk in the path she so nobly trod.
	Resolved, That these resolution be spread upon our
records, and a copy be furnished the bereaved family,
also one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publi-
cation. 					AMY LORETTE BIGLER,
								Stake Secretary.
	Nephi, June 14th, 1883.

	Mary M. Edlefson, beloved wife of Brother N. C. Ed-
lefson, died, May 18th, 1883, at her home in Logan,
Utah, after a long illness. She was born February 10th,
1830, at Fyen, Denmark, was married in the fall of 1851,
embraced the Gospel in February, 1858, emigrated to
Utah in 1864, located at Hyrum, Cache Co., and in the

[Column 2]
year following moved to Ovid in Bear Lake Valley. In
the year 1877 she moved with her husband and family to
Logan.
	In August, 1882 Brother Edlefson and wife were called
to St. George Temple and remained there 5 months; al-
though Sister Edlefson was in poor health during that
time she enjoyed her labors very much.
	During her stay at St. George and after her return she
anticipated much pleasure in the prospect of laboring
in the Logan Temple. Notwithstanding her poor
health after her return home, she retained her
buoyancy of spirit and ardent hope that she would
recover and continued so until a short time previous to
her demise, but when finding death inevitable she be-
came resigned and willing to die, and departed this life
in peace and the full hope of eternal life. At the time
of her death and for several years previous she acted as
one of the connselors of the Relief Society of the Fifth
Ward of Logan. Sister Edlefson was a woman of rare
ability, was possessed of qualities that are necessary
to make a good Saint, wife and mother, all of which
she was to an eminent degree. She was the mother of
nine children, four of whom are dead, those living may
be greatly blest and aided by the lustre and goodness
of her example, for during her career in the Church she en-
dured many privations, both in her own land and in Utah,
for the Gospel's sake, maintaining with her own hands
her family while her husband performed several years of
missionary labor, in the midst of which she ever mani-
fested an implicit faith in the Gospel and the ordinances
thereof, particularly was this noticeable in her recent
illness with respect to the administration of the elders,
experiencing relief upon nearly every occasion when ad-
ministered to. She was greatly respected and esteemed
by all who knew her, as is evinced by the following
memoriam:
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT to the memory of Sister
Mary Edlefson.
	Whereas, Almighty God has seen fit to take from our
midst by the hand of death Sister Mary Edlefson.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That while we bow in hum-
ble submission to the divine will of Almighty God we
realize that we have lost by her death a friendly adviser,
a motherly counselor, and more than all, a firm and
faithful supporter of the principles of the Gospel.
	Resolved, Tnat we treasure up her past efforts in
teaching us the principles of the Gospel, and advising us
for our best good, and that we emulate her worthy
example.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be spread
upon our minutes, and one presented to the bereaved
ones.				ANNIE ANDERSON, Secretary.
	Fifth Ward Relief Society, Logan, June 6th, 1883.


[Column 1]

