BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following interesting events written by
my father as they transpired, will, no doubt,
be read with interest by the Latter-day
Saints.
	"Tuesday, December 9th. The Twelve
met in counsel at Willard Richards' with two
Catholics; Mr. Tucker of Quincy, and Mr.
Hamilton, of Springfield, who came to con-
tract for our city."
	"Wednesday, 10th. Father wrote—This
morning went up to the Temple in company
with my wife and Sister Whitney—the morn-
ing very fine but cold. * * Found
President B. Young and a number of the
brethren. * * About half past ten
it was reported that Priest Tucker and his as-
sociates were below, waiting an interview with
the Twelve and council. Mr. Tucker and Mr.
Hamilton were admitted into the upper rooms
of the Temple, accompanied by Bishop Joseph
Heywood, who gave the gentlemen an introduc-
tion to those present. The propositions of the
council in regard to the sale of our property
were presented to Mr. Tucker in writing, who
read them over and then handed them to Mr.
Hamilton, who also read them. The gentle-
men were then invited into President Young's
room—present, besides the Twelve, were
George Miller, John M. Bernhisel, Joseph L.
Heywood and William Clayton.
	Mr. Tucker made some observations respect-
ing the two main rooms of the Temple. * *
President Young replied and explained in re-
gard to that matter, also the pulpits, place for
the organ etc.,and also the side rooms. Mr.
Hamilton asked a question as to the disposal
of our public buildings. In answer to which
Elder Hyde read aloud the written proposi-
tion and offered some explanations. * * *
President Young remarked that we wished to
realize, from the sale of our property, sufficient
to take all our poor with us in a comfortable
manner. If he was alone he could take his
wife with him and make his way to the Pacific
with little difficulty, but at the same time he
did not wish to do it. He would rather have
his wagons and go with all the rest of the
church comfortably. Mr. Tucker said he
thought it would be wisdom to publish our
propositions in all the Catholic papers and lay
the matter plain before their people—should
also think it advisable for the Catholic Bishops
to send a competent committee to ascertain the
value of our property etc. At the same time
they would use all their influence to effect a
sale as speedily as possible—thinks they have
men in St. Louis; New York and other cities,
who could soon raise the amount we want, but
the time is so very short, he does not know
whether it can be done so soon. He then asked
if we would be willing to have our propositions
published in their papers. President Young
replied we should have no objections, providing
it was understood that we reserved the right to
sell when we had the chance—Elder P. P.
Pratt thought it would be well to talk over the
propositions and investfgate them, so as to
have everything perfectly and clearly under-
stood. Mr Hamilton wished to ascertain upon
what conditions they could obtain two of our
public buildings—one for a school and one for
a church. * * * President Young
said he was well aware that there were many
men in the Catholic Church who could furnish
all the money we would want at once, but he
supposed it was with them as it was with a Mr.
Butler, who owned a wealthy bank, when asked
why he did not sign off more bills, he replied,
it was a good deal of trouble to sign off bills.
He supposed it was too much trouble for them

[Column 2]

to dig their money out of their vaults; but he
wished it understood that while we make a
liberal propositien to dispose of our property,
we must have the means to help ourselves
away.
	Mr. Tucker said their object was to write to
each Bishop and enclose our propositions in a
letter, at the same time advising him either to
come himself or to appoint a committee of
efficient men to come and value the property,
and enter into terms for a final agreement.
He said the sum to be raised was large, and
the time very short, * * but thinks
it can be accomplished—thinks they could be
able to give us a decided answer by the 25th
inst.
	President Young said he would like to add
a note to our proposals before they go for pub-
lication, to this effect: That if they agree to
our propositions we will lease them the Temple
for a period of from five to thirty-five years, at
a reasonable price, the rent to be paid in
finishing the unfinished parts of the Tem-
ple, the wall around the Temple Block and the
block west of the Temple and keeping the
Temple in repair. The council agreed to the
amendment, which was accordingly added to
the proposals and handed to Mr. Tucker.
Mr. Tucker seemed to give much encourage-
ment that an arrangement would speedily be
entered into to accomplish what we want.
Both the gentlemen seem highly pleased with
the Temple aud the city, and appear to feel
sanguine that the Catholics should get this
Temple and vicinity. About half past twelve
they departed, evidently feeling well to-
ward us. * * * * * *
	At a quarter to four, Elder Hyde came into
my room and brought tidings that our sherriff J.
B. Backenstos was clear and acquited. The
jury said if there had been no witnesses only
on the part of the State it would not have re-
quired two minutes to have made up their ver-
dict. They have got two of the mob witnesses
in jail for perjury, and Backenstos has gone to
Springfield to request the Governor to with-
draw his troops."
	"About half past one o'clock, father says,
Mother Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet,
arrived; * * the first time that the
old lady has been in the attic. She with Sister
Agnes, the widow of Don C. Smith, Sister
Mary, widow of Hyrum, her sister Mercy
Thompson and Elizabeth Ann Whitney took
lunch with my father and mother. He wrote,
Mother Smith says, "Write that I ate hearty."
He continues, all the rooms are nicely carpeted
and have a very splendid and comfortable ap-
pearance. * * * At three o'clock
Sister Mary Ann Young, Vilate Kimball and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney commenced washing
and anointing each other—being the first in
the Holy Temple of the Lord." We are here
reminded of the Prophet Joseph's words that
"The sisters are always first in all good works."
At twenty-five minutes past four o'clock Presi-
dent B. Young and H. C. Kimball commenced
washing and anointing Elder Willard Rich-
ards. Mother Smith went through the Holy
ordinances that evening with those who have
been previously mentioned as receiving them
in the life-time of the Prophet, so my father
wrote, and that some retired early, and the rest
continued working till half past three in
the morning, when President Young and all
present knelt down and, A. Lyman being
mouth, offered up prayer and praise to the
Most High, for his goodness. Father says," B.
Young and wife, H. C. Kimball and George
A. Smith, also Sister Mary Smith, her sister,
Mercy R. Thompson and W. W. Pheps and
his wife tarried in the Temple all night. We
only obtained about an hour and a half sleep.
In the morning Sister Young and the others
went home; B. Young and myself went to
Joseph Kingsbury's and ate breakfast, * *

[Column 3]

returned back to the Temple and found several
of the brethren and sisters had come in to re-
ceive their endowments. * * Sister
Vilate Kimball and Elisabeth Ann Whitney,
attended to the * * females. At
one o'clock Elder Orson Pratt came in; he has
just returned from his mission to the east."
Some portions of father's journal were written
by William Clayton. He wrote, "After we
got through President Young called the follow-
ing persons into Heber's room viz. H. C. Kim-
ball, P. P. Pratt, John Taylor, O. Hyde John
E. Page, George A. Smith, Amasa Lyman,
Newel K. Whitney, George Miller and Wil-
liam Clayton. The President then stated that
he had received a letter from Samual Brannan,
saying that he had been to Washington and
had learned that the Secretary of War and
the heads of the government were laying plans
and were determined to prevent our moving
west; alleging that it is against the law for an
armed body of men to go from the United
States to any other government. They say it
will not do to let the Mormons go to Calfornia
nor Orogon, neither will it do to let them
taary in the States, and they must be extermin-
ated from the face of the earth."
	To all earthly appearance we were then to
be scattered or wiped out of existence. We
were but a little handful and no power to look
to but to the Omnipotent, whose hand had
thus far kept us together and not the power of
man. But He, in his infinite mercy, had en-
dowed them and given them the key by which
his faithful servants and handmaidens could
approach nearer to His throne, and find
greater favor, because of their humble obedi-
ence to His laws and requirements. Father
says, "We prayed that the Lord would defeat
and frustrate all the plans of our enemies, and
inasmuch as they make plots and lay plans to
exterminate this people and destroy the priest-
hood from off the earth, that the curse of God
may come upon them, even all the evil which
they design to bring upon this people, and that
the Lord would preserve the lives of His ser-
vants and lead us out of this ungodly nation
in peace." After we got through there was a
unanimous feeling that the Lord would answer
our prayers and defeat our enemies. President
Young said we should go away from here in
peace in spite of our enemies.
	The holy ordinances of the Priesthood are
the things most dreaded by the enemies of
all righteousness, and it is him (the father of
lies) who is at work stirring up the hearts of
men to destroy it from off the earth. The Lat-
ter-day Saints are prepared for this and know
that he will leave no stone unturned to accom-
plish this end. How plainly we can see his
workings in the efforts made in these days by
his agents to stop not only the legitimate emi-
gration from the spirit world but also the hon-
est in heart from the various nations of the
earth; but how feeble are their efforts—Consul
Mason for instance trying to prove that "Mor-
mon" missionaries are bringing "over paupers
for wives," etc., but they all prove abortive,
and in the very course they are pursuing they
are inadvertantly publishing the Gospel truths.
and making proselytes faster even than the
missionaries can do; and we can’t but repeat
these words, "God works in a mysterious way
his wonders to perform." Because the keys of
the Priesthood which were to be conferred
upon Aaron and his seed have been handed
down and administered to the Latter-day
Saints, and because the faithful portion are
still determined to be faithful and true to the
sacred covenants which were made in the
Temple of our God, we are to be threatened,
harassed and persecuted to the bitter end.
	To be Continued.


County Convention on July 14th. Primary
meetings on July 10th. Ladies attend.


