TO TIME.

Ho, ruthless invader! say whither away,
With thy merciless scythe and thy locks of gray?
Canst thou not for a moment prolong thy career
Ere thou takest the life of the dying year?
Hold thy shad'wy wings, and pause in thy flight
Ere thou givest this day to an endless night.
Dost thou feel no remorse as thou fleest by,
Has thy heart no throb, thy soul no sigh,
To give, as a tribute, to the last, the lone,
To the ruined tower with moss o'ergrown,
To the widow in tears for the life-blood shed,
To the orphan who mourns a parent dead,
To the childless sire whose son has found
A coffinless grave on the battle ground,
Or the wounded soldier who vainly cries
For a glimpse of home ere his spirit flies
To that land where peace immortal smiles,	
And the syren's fame no more beguiles,
To the drooping form of the maiden fair,
Or the fading flowers that deck her hair?
Can that lovely child on its mother's knee,
With its dying smile win no tear from thee?
Dost thou feel no pang for the wife's appeal,
As her midnight prayer on the low winds steal,
That he she so fondly trusted may
Repay that trust at no distant day?
Thou hast visited yon majestic tree,
And that yawning rent was made by thee,
That towering pile on the upland brow
Shows the mark of thy blasting finger now,
And the stately form of its master bends
'Neath thy withering touch as he slowly wends
His way where the hungry, old ivy crawls
To his gorgeous feast on the crumbling walls,
Thou hast sprinkled with silver my own dark hair,
And the once smooth cheek thy wrinkles bear,
And the form that in youth seemed to laugh thee to
	scorn
Is bent as before thee 'tis onward borne.
Yet thou art defied, yes, tyrant thou,
That feeble form with a furrowed brow
Hath a spirit that laughs thy seythe to scorn,
A soul that lived ere thou wert born,
A mind that can soar to the end of Time,
And in fancy hear thy funeral chime,
Thou may'st gambol, grim shade, with this mutable
									ball,

But not with the hand that made it, all
Thy power is crushed when he deigns to shew
How thy flight is confined to this sphere below.
Then linger a moment, tho' thy footsteps are seen
In the halls of kings and the village green;
Thou art monarch of this frail world of ours,
Of its loftiest domes and its tiniest flowers,
But a mightier monarch than thou hast decreed
That the soul of man from its spirit freed
Shall ignore thy power and rise above
Thy tireless wing to a home of love,
Where thy name is not heard or thy footsteps seen,
And the land is dressed in eternity's green.
								M. A. YAULTON.
	London.


(Column 1)
﻿IS THIS A LAND OF LIBERTY?
Where are thy far-famed laws, Columbia?
Where thy boasted freedom, thy protecting
care? Is this a land of rights, stern facts shall
say, when defenceless women are dragged from
their homes and placed in a prison; the sacred-
nes3 of their homes and firesides invaded by
those who should be the ones to protect them,well
may we ask the onestion, where is the spirit
of 76? where is the spirit of a Washington?
where ! oh where! is the spirit that animated
the framers of the glorious Constitution  of
America? Have our forefathers bled and died
in vain? Is there not enough of the spirit of
freedom left in the land to denounce such
high-minded oppression? Oh! ye Statesmen,
ye Legislators and rulers, pause and reflect ere
it be too late, and know that the Lord God of
Heaven rules and controls the nations of the
earth, that kingdoms, principalities and powers
of the earth are under his divine will. And
do ye not know that he inspired the framers
of the Constitution of America by the power
(Column 2)
of his will? Don’t think that He will allow
the Flag of Liberty, the ensign of freedom to
be dragged in the mire and trampled under
foot with impunity. No, the Lord will come
out of his hiding place and vex the nation,
and unless they repent he will send dire dis-
truction, plagues, famine and woe in their
midst, until they will be obliged to acknowl-
edge his almighty power.
	Upon what charge did the officers arrest
Belle Harris? None. What right had any
court, jury, or lawyer to pry into her private
affairs? None. And because she refused to
answer a question that was an insult in itself,
she was sent to the penitentiary, “for contempt
of court,” “to maintain the dignity of the
conrt,” ‘oh consistency, thou art a jewel.” It
was true dignity and chivalry combined that
refused bail to a lady brought into court with-
out any charge, only suspicion. 	*	*
“Thou carest uot much for character,
Thy aim is how to destroy,
And that by treacherous stealth.”
	We say to our sister Belle, put your trust in
that God who has watched over his Saints and
protected them from time to time from their
enemies, and be sure that the prayers of your
sisters are ascending up to the throne of grace
that you may have strength and fortitude to
maintain the principles of liberty and freedom
to which you were born a citizen of the Uni-
ted States. Stand firm to your integrity as a
daughter of the Republic, having a right to
the protection of this government against all
the encroachments upon the sacredness of
your home and fireside; and as a daughter of
Zion you know that those who suffer persecu-
tion for Christ’s sake, great shall be their re-
ward in heaven.
	The Almighty holds the helm, and He has
said through his prophet in this our day, that
inasmuch as we live our religion inviolate aud
keep his commandments He will be our God,
and we shall be his people, then why should
we despond? With God our Heavenly Father
for our friend, what will it matter if the whole
world be against us? Poor, weak, puny man
to fight against God, when their very breath
depends upon his mercy, they are measuring
arms with God, and He will smite them by the
power of his word, unless they repent in sack-
cloth; the cries of the daughters of Zion are as-
cending to the throne of God, saying, how long,
oh Lord, shall the cry of thy people ascend
before thy throne for redress for the wrongs
they have endured? But not our will be done,
but Thine. Most just and merciful Father, we
thy people trust in thee, we have confidence
in thee, and submit humbly to thy decree; at
the same time we contend for our rights, and
protest against the unconstitutionality of the
proceedings being euacted against us as a peo-
ple; we protest against all invasions of our
rights granted to us by the constitution; as
Americans we claim the right of protection
from all invasion of our rights, we ask, why
such p distinction between a Latter-day Saint
and a Gentile? Belle Harris was put in a
common prison where the worst of crimanals
are imprisoned, although not occupying the
same apartments, while a man charged with
bigamy is scarcely tried, and is left to run at
large in the commnnity and impose upon
the people. We think with the “Record
Union” “that the officers do show that the full
rigor of the law is enforced upon supposed
criminals when they are Mormons, and the
rigor is relaxed in the case of a Gentile crim-
inal.” The case does not show well for our
Federal officers.  It is the old cry, as it was in
the days of Christ when the Jews cried, “His
blood be upon us.” It is. the same spirit that
put our Savior to death; the same spirit that
killed the prophets and apostles in the days of
Jesus; the same that killed our Prophet and 
(Column three)
Patriarch in Nauvoo, and has put to death so
many of our brethren and sisters, and drove
them from State to State until they thought
they had driven them to their death beyond 
the Rocky Mountains, where no white men 
could live as they thought, but the Lord was
with his people and led them to a land where
they could be independant, and they have pros-
pered until they have become a power in the 
nation which has vexed them: so the adversary
is prompting them to annoy and raise a hue
and cry, it is a warfare between  the powers of 
darkness and the hosts of heaven, and it will 
continue until the kingdoms of this world are 
subdued and brought into subjection to the 
kingdom of heaven, and He reigns whose
right it is to reign of rightousness established upon 
the earth-. Them let us rejoice in the God of
our salvation, knowing that ere long the Lord
will appear in his glory to reward the faithful,  
	and to cleanse the earth from wickedness and 
corruption, and reign triumphantly a Conquer-
or. 
	Praying for the success of the EXPONENT
and the welfare of Zion, 
			Retpeetfully you sister, 
				SARAH A. FULLMER.
O[-]angeville, Emery Co., June 5th, 1883.


