IS IT IGNORANCE?

	It seems a very common thing with people
unaquainted with the facts to say, it is the ig-
norance of "Mormon" women "that keeps them
in bondage," that "makes them submit to plural
marriage;" when in truth the very contrary is
the case. It is because of the intelligence they
possess on subjects connected with their exist-
ence here and hereafter, as well as that of their
posterity and kindred, the hopes entertained,
and the actual knowledge concerning the future
that causes them to embrace a doctrine so un-
popular and so objectionable in the eyes of the
world. Such paragraphs as the following and
similar ones abound in the newspapers and
journals of the day: "It was hoped by giving
the women of Utah the ballot they would use it
for the destruction of the monster, which keeps
them under its iron heel, in hopeless misery."
These people may be well meaning, but they
talk nonsense and folly in the extreme. Who
are the "Mormon" women, who accepted plural
marriage when the principle was first revealed
to the Prophet Joseph, and taught to a few of
of the people called Latter-day Saints?
	They were just such sound, practical, intelli-
gent women as the foremothers of New Eng-
land and the women pioneers of those Eastern
States. Women prepared to encounter hard-
ships and privation, perils by land and sea for
the sake of the religion in which they devoutly
and implicitly believed. Aye, more! Deter-
mined not only to make the sacrifices incident
to all these sufferings, but still further to prove
their integrity to God by denying themselves
that others might be benefitted and exalted. Is
not this an actual demonstration of that golden
rule the Savior gave to his followers: "Do unto
others as ye would they should do unto you."
These noble women are like other good, pure,
virtuous women, industrially, morally and in-
telluctually. Religiously they are far above
them in the graces which elevate and adorn
human character. It is no wonder that contem-
plating these noble-minded women many are
led to exclaim, "it is not possible that you are
like us, for if you were you could not live in
such relationships." To esteem others equally
with yourself is necessary; to consider the rights
and privileges of those with whom you are as-
sociated as is requisite in one great family.
The women who entered into these sacred cov-
enants of marriage for time and all eternity ac-
cepted this holy order as a divine revelation
and commandment, and in all sincerety, with
the purest motives obeyed the same. To be
sure there has another generation grown up
since the establishment of the principle of ce-
lestial marriage, but has America any reason to
be ashamed of these young people? "By their
fruits ye shall know them, said the Savior."
Do they lack in natural intelligence, in physical
strength or vigor, or in any particular? Have
they not all the gifts and attributes that go to
make up nobility of character in men and
women? No one can say to the contrary and
speak truthfully.
	Speaking of the emigration from other coun-
tries, what difference is there here in Utah more
than elsewhere? None, except it be that Mormons
do more to assist foreign popluation in becoming
good citizens, and adapting themselves to the
conditions of the country. They are taught
more carefully and specifically in relation to the
laws and government of the country. This is a 
result of the perfect and thorough organization
of the Church itself, both with men and women;
There is every opportunity of becoming enlight-
ened on all general subjects. Mormon girls and
women have as sensible ideas upon marriage as
any people in the civilized world. They are
thoroughly taught and instructed to consider
well before accepting this sacred rite, and to
choose wisely. More particalarly are they
cautioned in this regard, because, the covenants
they make are not only for time, but reach into
eternity. It is an important matter to make
choice of a companion for this life, but how
much more so does it become when the union is
an eternal one. In order to investigate the "Mor-
mon" question it is essentially necessary to
know the people themselves, and not accept
testimony of reporters, tourists and sensational
writers, nor yet of political demagogues, whose
sole aim is to make capital by the votes of the
Territory, and turn everything into the hands
of their own party. "Mormon" peeple have
rights under the Constitution, and they will
seek to maintain them, women as well as men.
If anyone supposes these same women citizens
to be ignorant of the rights the ballot gives
them, then they know very little about the
women of this Territory, and our advice to them
is, let the matter rest until you have an oppor-
tunity of solving the problem by thorough in-
vestigation, and not from one side, and remem-
ber the words of the Savior, "Judge not, lest
ye be judged."


[Column 1]
