LOGAN, CACHE CO.
	Report of Primary Association of Cache
Stake of Zion, held in the Logan Tabernacle,
June 2nd, 1883. On the stand were Presi-
dent Jane E. Molen, Counselors Sisters Bar-
ber and Hansen, and Sisters E. S. Taylor and
E. Howard, of Salt Lake City. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing

[Column 2]

and prayer, reading of minutes and the Stake
report, etc. Presidents of the varions societies
gave verbal reports, The children were cate-
chised from "Bible Questions and Answers."
	President Jane E. Molen then presented be-
fore the audience the children whom the Pri-
mary Associations of this Stake had emigrated
from England.
	Sister Taylor spoke to the children, said a
few years ago there were no prophets nor apos-
tles on the earth, and how thankful we should
be that we are permitted to come upon the
earth when God has again restored the Gospel
to earth. When we are sick we should
call in the elders to anoint and administer un-
to us, then if we are not appointed unto death
we will be healed.
	Sister Howard said she was delighted to
hear the questions so well answered; and was
very pleased to know they remembered their
prayers, for if they would always do so they
would be preserved from accident. Little
boys, do not use tobacco, for it is a filthy
weed. Obey your parents, that you may
have long lives upon the earth. Attend
your meetings regularly and spend no time
in hunting for things that should be kept in
their places, for you will be held responsible
for all the time you have on earth. Set an
example worthy of imitation by these child-
ren whom you have emigrated. Be careful
of your health, and do not expose yourselves
to the cold and wet when it is unnecessary.
Do not be cruel to animals, no matter what
kind they are. Be humble, gentle and obe-
dient at all times. Always be cheerful and
happy, then the angels will attend you.
	Sister Barber exhorted the children to
treasure up the instructions that had been
given. Ever be good, kind and obedient,
that you may grow up good men and
women.
	President J. E. Molen thanked the children
for their good attendance and kind attention.
Asked the children each to save five cents
towards emigrating two more children from
England, a brother and sister to the little
boy and girl that had already come to Zion
through their efforts.
	Conference was then adjourned to the first
Friday and Saturday in September. Child-
ren sang. Benediction.
	LAVINIA PARRY,
		Secretary.
	Report of the Primary Association of
Cache Stake for the half year ending March
1st, 1883:
	Meetings held, 337; Number of Members,
1847; Increase, 205; Decrease, 97; Average at-
tendance, 773. Readings. Bible Chapters,
98; Book of Mormon, 14; Doctrine and Coven-
ants, 43; Other Church Works, 203; Home
Readings, Chapters, 672; Home Readings,
Verses, 1172; Miscellaneous, 391. Recitations.
Bible—Number of Verses, 320; Book of Mor-
mon—Number of Verses, 27; Doctrine and
Covenants—Number of Verses, 235; Other
Church Works—Number of Verses, 424; Mis-
cellaneous Books, 431; Testimonies borne,
942; Essays, 55. Financial. Cash received,
$217.48; Property, $106.78; Total, $324.26;
Cash Paid Out, $127.85, Devoted to Temple,
$83.23; Charitable Purposes, 65.12; Cash on
Hand, 38.41; Property on Hand, 127.53; To-
tal on Hand, 165.94.
	JANE E. MOLEN, President.
	LAVINIA PARRY, Secretary.

