DRESEDEN, Oct 20, 1882.
	It was late in the evening when we entered
this city. We were weary from a long day's
journey. We had been looking towards
the place as a sort of Mecca where our pil-
grimage was to end for the present. We sent
out many an inquiring glance as the fiacre
rolled through the streets on our way from the
Bahnhof. There was a certain severe quiet-
ness about everything that impressed us in an
uncomfortable fashion. It seemed as though
barometer and thermometer had both fallen
very fast since the setting of the sun.
	The ride ended at last; onr driver opened the
door of our carriage. We were in front of a
goodly building, but no flight of steps could
we find by which we might ascend and see if
the rooms we had engaged were habitable, At
last a gloomy looking arch-way with a gleam
of light somewhere in its mysterious depths,
fixes our attention. We venture in on a
voyage of discovery. At the further end we
come upon the "front steps," a huge stone stair-
way leading up to regions above. Maids were
coming down with lights, and we find it is the
place we have bargained for. We follow them
up four flights of stairs to find ourselves on
the third etage. We make some mental com-
ments on the peculiar method of computation,
and wonder if the people with whom we are to
abide are in very reduced circumstnnces, and
question whether there can be any duty to
them which will induce us to live in a "tene-
ment house." Before we have settled the
weighty problem, a door is thrown open and a 
gentle German frau who writes "Von" before
her name, is making us welcome in her own
pleasant way. Her rooms are as pleasant as
her voice of welcome. She has a bountiful
supper spread for us. Her dainty looking
table, with its snowy cloth and shining silver,
is a pretty picture in the quaint old dining-
room with its polished floor and comfortable
rugs. The sleeping apartments are equally in-

[Column 2]

viting. We find their arrangement somewhat
different from those we left at home. We en-
joy even the difference. The trimmings to
ours are all blue. Queer curtains of some
odd texture shade the three windows, which
open into the room, swinging back by hinges
like doors. Toilet tables, one for each person,
sofas and comfortable chairs go to make up our
satisfaction in our surroundings, which we 
speedily appropriate.
	We are glad enough to avail ourselves of
the opportunity to test the somnolent influences
of the comfortable looking beds. We are
learning a lesson now and then in gymnastics
by practice in the art of keeping our most pe-
culiar coverlets over us. The beds themselves
throughout all Germany are usually comfort-
able for persons of medium height. The Ger-
man cabinet maker is, in all probability, short
of stature, and is a law unto himself in measur-
ing. What happens to the tall person who at-
tempts to get a night's rest in a German bed of
the regulation pattern, we can only guess. The
problem is fatiguing. We usually find the
sheet and a red blanket basted together. After
this comes the crowning glory of the structure,
the pride and delight of the German frau, the
feather bed. Yes, good friends, we sleep un-
der our beds. The shades of our grandmothers
for more than one generation back have
seemed to stand before us in the hours of the
stilly night, with most sympathetic eyes, as we
have shivered in the pale moonlight in a vain
attempt to lay hands on our tormenting adver-
sary. Night after night we wrestle with our
soft-hearted antagonist. We find the enemy
floored every morning, the battle to be renewed
every night. How long our constitution can
stand the strife, we have yet to learn.
	We do not breakfast early. It is not ortho-
dox to do so. We find delicious coffee and
rolls waiting our coming to the table, or ready
to be served in our room. Honey is usually
the only accompaniment to the rolls. We still
cling to our old ideas, and secure a substantial
meal before we start out for the day. With
the sunshine on the city we find it less sombre
and unattractive than in the evening. We
straighten out our belongings, make ourselves
feel a little at home, and then start out.
	There is but one direction for us. Be the
city ever so attractive it is nothing now. We
have a pilgrimage before us, the only altar be-
fore which we can bow is in the Zwinger. We
are amazed at the building when we reach it,
we find it so much larger and finer than we
had expected. It reminds us in many ways of
the palaces of France, built under the direc-
tion of that ease-loving and luxurious Monarch,
Louis XIV. Augustus, the strong, laid the
foundation of the building, and was the origina-
tor of the wonderful collection now contained
within its walls. We cross the great court
with a sort of bewildered consciousness that
one of the desires of our life is about to be
gratified. We enter the door, ascend the
stairs, pass through the rotunda, inquire our
way of the guards, and keeping on through
the corridors, enter at last a room containing
a single picture—the object of our search—
"The San Sisto, or Sistine Madonna." When
we reached the door, our impulse was to turn
back again. We had counted on so much,
we were half afraid to enter. We drew back
the curtain, which draped the entrance, and
were at last face to face with the wonderful
creation; this marvel, this inspiration, which
found lodgment in the reverent mind of the
gentle, tender poet-painter, whose wondrous
genius alone could place it on canvas. Words
die away from the lips of those who enter the
sanctury where this Madonna is enshrined.
The unearthly beauty of the gracious figure is
almost painful in its impressive majesty in the
first moments of our surprise. We feel more
than we can see or speak. We stand dumb


and bewildered. We are glad to find ourself
in a seat at last.
	After a little time we get accustomed to our
surroundings, and find there are others in the
room, all absorbed and intent in what is before
them. The painting is quite large, arranged
with excellent taste, so that it now appears in
the position for which Raphael intended it—
above an altar—choicely framed, with hang-
ings of soft, rich maroon-color back of it. No
words can give an idea worthy the reality.
The marvelous Madonna is of course the cen-
tral figure, With the babe nestling in its ce-
lestial beauty in her arms, she seems treading
the very clouds of heaven utterly unconscious
of everything except her precious charge. The
womanly grace of her divine appointment to
the motherhood of Christ seems crowned by a
dignity beyond our comprehension.
	After a time, we begin to take in the acces-
sories to this figure. We find St. Barbara on
the right, bent in homage to mother and child,
while Pope Sixtus prostrates himself at the
left. Our eyes travel down in search of the
cherubs, who are in themselves worth a journey
to see. They are as facsinating, as beautiful, as
bewitching as one could imagine.
	The little room, even the strong walls of the
Zwinger fade away from us. We are watch-
ing a young man, a poet, possibly, who is
sauntering on the outskirts of an Italian city,
in the rosy close of a summer's afternoon.
Orange blossoms and oleanders have flung
their sweetness into the softened air. There is
a hush of repose over everything, as the pen-
sive muser pauses beside a cottage garden.
In the latticed doorway a young mother is re-
peating the story of the child that was born in
Bethlehem. Her beautiful boys are weary of
their play, and are resting at her knee. The
chubby hands of one are placed under the lit-
tle chin, while the wondering eyes of the other
are upturned in loving admiration toward the
devout and tender mother. The listless look
is gone from the stranger's face; quietly he ap-
proaches, listens with eager eyes bent on the
children, till the story is all told—the questions
about the wonderful mother and child all
answered. Then this young loiterer stoops to
caress the lovely children and tell the mother
that if she will bring her boys on the morrow
to his home he will show them a picture of the
Virgin and her Child.
	There is a murmur of satisfaction that causes
us to raise our eyes. The beautiful twins are
glowing on the canvas before us, where the
hand of Raphael placed them in loving adora-
tion at the feet of the Madonna about whom
they delighted to hear.
	We look mechanically along the walls of
this grand gallery as we go out, but are unable
to fasten our attention in a satisfactory way on
anything. We hope to come many times, and
make ourselves familiar with much that is in it.
To-day is only an introductory visit, and we
wanted to come quietly, with a single friend,
to that one particular object of our pilgrim-
age. It is good to be alone sometimes with
those who know the value of silence.
