AN INTERESTING TRIP.
THE LAMANITES IMPROVING, RELIEF SOCIETY
NEWS— SILK INDUSTRY.
“On the morning of the 14th of May I took
train and went to Brigham City for an "out,"
and for an indefinite time. On the 19th inst.,
in company with my brother, Lorenzo Snow,
and his son Alphonso, recently returned from a
Southern mission, I went by carriage to Washa-
kie, known as "The Indian Farm," in Box Elder


County, about forty miles from Brigham City,
and arrived at Bishop Zundel's before night.
	On out way we called, and were very cordially
received and hospitably entertained, at the
the residence of Brother and Sister Standing,
the parents of the brave young missionary who
was brutally murdered in Georgia.
	The next day being Sunday, at 10 o'clock, we
all went to Sunday School, which was conducted
by Elder Moroni Ward. A few white children
were in attendance, but the school mostly con-
sisted of, not only red children of small growth,
but full grown men and women, all seeming in
earnest to learn as fast as possible. I listened to
each class separately, and, while I was deeply
struck with surprise with the progress of the
scholars, I felt no less admiration for the untir-
ing perseverance of the teachers. By request I
addressed the school for a short time, Bishop
Zundel interpreting to those that did not fully
understand.
	At two p.m. we attended meeting. After the
sacrament was administered my brother preached
a short and interesting discoure, after which
Bishop Zundel organized a Relief Society, with
Sister Elizabeth J. Zundel president, Sisters
Melissa Hunsaker and Kohn (Lamanite) Coun-
selors; Sister Harriet Chandler Secretary;
Almira Hall Treasurer.
	The time would not admit of voting in the
members that day, but I have received a report
from the secretary, saying that at the next Sun-
day meeting forty-one members were received,
thirty-five of whom are Lamanites; several of
whom expressed their gratitude in being thus
organized, and their desires to learn to keep
house and to make clothing as their white sis-
ters do.
	One impressive feature of the services in the
afternoon meeting, which we attended, must
not be overlooked, i. e., the singing, which was
all performed by a Lamanite choir of six males
and six females. With the many variationsin
their tunes, which are very peculiar, the perfec-
tion of their time is truly astonishing.
	After the meeting was dismissed, the children
were called together, and I organized a Prim-
ary Association, with the following officers:
Philena H. Zundel, President; Eliza Ward and
Almira Hall, Counselors; Phebe Zundel, Secre-
tary; Hadden Ward, Treasurer.
	We were informed that Brother Chandler is
successful here in teaching a day school, which
is well attended; he also has charge of the Sun-
day School, but was absent on a visit—we did
not see him. The Indians are very industrious
under Brother Zundel's direction. This sum-
they propose building a number of dwell-
ing houses of brick of their own manufacture,
which will advance them much in domestic im-
provement. 
	On Monday we returned to Brigham City,
stopping to noon in Honeyville at Bishop Hun-
saker's, where a number of the brethren came
in for a few minutes' sociable, and where I had
the pleasure of meeting the widow of the much
esteemed Brother David Grant. She is daughter
of Bishop H., and is now President of the Prim-
ary Association of that Ward. I need not say
that we dined sumptuously-- the Bishop's hos-
pitality is proverbial.
	On the 23rd I accompanied President Harriet
Snow and Sister Mortensen, in a light spring
wagon, a span of horses, and a young lady
driver, to Mantua; not the place where Virgil
the poet was born, but where we met a live Re-
lief Society, had a good time and returned. On
the 26th, went to Willard City with the same
wagon, team and charioteer-- attended two
meetings of Primary Conference. The children's
exercises occupied most of the time—their recita-
tions were excellent and splendidly rendered.
The Bishop and other brethren were present.
	On the 31st, Brother M. Dudley came from
Willard City, for Sister H. Snow, her daughter
Abigall and myself, and we met with a large
congregation of sisters and brethren in Relief
Society capacity.
	On the 14th of June attended Primary Con-
ference in Brigham City; two meetings with
very large attendance, excellent exercises and
a very creditable primary fair. They exhibited
many beautiful specimens combining the useful
with the ornamental.
	The next day was R. S. Conference--two
meetings well attended-- it was truly a beauti-
ful congregation for the spirit of God seemed to
beam from every countenance. The large Tab-
ernacle in which the three conferences were
held was well filled, and the wards generally
well reported.
	The 13th was the Young Ladies Conference.
I met with them in the forenoon, had a good
time, listened to very sensible remarks, made a
few myself, and in the afternoon took the train
for my home in Salt Lake city, thus terminat-
ing my one month's "out."
	I now wish to append to the forgoing the
following silk report from Brigham City:
	Christine Forsgren of the 4th Ward, in 1881,
wove twenty-one yards of all silk warp, with
silk and wool fillings. In 1882 she wove fifteen
yards, all silk. In 1883 she has woven twenty
yards of dress goods, and seven yards of satin
vesting, and has ready for the loom, material
for fifteen yards of underwear. All this she has
brought forth from the elements. All of the
work done at her home.
	Christine Christiansen of the 3rd Ward has
thirteen yards thirty-three inches wide, now in
the loom all silk for dress. About one hundred
neckties have been made in Brigham city, be-
sides a qutntity of floss.
	It is estimated that one hundred and fifty
pounds of dry cocoons have been raised in that
city in the last three years. Ellen Stark sold
$29 worth in one year. 	E. R. Snow Smith.


