UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah Stake of Zion, held
in Provo City, June 1st, 1888. Present on the
stand, Counselors Mary John and Margaret
A. Cluff, Secretary, etc., Mary John presiding.
Sister Zina D. H. Yonng present also, with a
few of the brethren. Conference opened with


the usual exercises, reading of minutes, etc.,
and as there were no written reports, verbal
reports were requested from the Presidents of
the different societies of the county, which were
given with very few exceptions. As a general
thing the societies were represented as being
in a flourishing condition, united and willing
to do all they were called upon to do in the
way of caring for the sick, helping the poor
and the needy, and trying in every way to
build up Zion.
	Sister John was gratified to meet with so
many of the sisters; was sorry that we were de-
prived (through illness) of the society of our
beloved President, Sister Smoot, but hoped the
Lord would heal her and restore her to us
again.
	Sister Cluff felt glad to hear the reports;
knew the sisters were doing a great deal of
good; felt to have faith for Sister Smoot that
we might have her with us again; also spoke
of the long labors of Sister Holden as Presi-
dent of the Fourth Ward Relief Society for
over fifteen years. Said that although the Re-
lief Societies were working quietly we could
hardly realize the good they were doing.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said, we have
come here to worship God. These societies
were organized by Joseph Smith, he said the 
oaganization of the Church was not complete
without them. We know not what we miss
when we neglect attending our meetings, every
sister cannot come to meeting, but let the
teachers visit them that their souls may be
feasted, how many times are our souls feasted
by visits from the teachers. Sisters, read the
Doctrine and Covenants; do not indulge in
much mirth; be prayerful; and careful of our
words when speaking of another; spoke of the
trials of the faithful, but that we could not en-
ter the Celestial Kingdom without having all
we could bear. Counseled the sisters in regard
to their children; give them good advice, teach
them pure principles--do not overtask your-
selves with work and abuse your tabernacles.
May our Father in Heaven bless us and ena-
ble us to be faithful.
	Just as the forenoon services were obout to
close a sister by the name of Tiffany was
moved upon by the spirit to speak in tongues,
which was intrepreted by Sister Zina D. H.
Young.
	Afternoon session commenced at two p.m.
Sister John said she wished to have a testimony
meeting, and gave leave for the sisters to speak
as they felt moved upon, a number of the
sisters bore a strong testimony to this work
and of the goodness of God to them.
	Mother Duke (over eighty years of age)
said, it is with peculiar feelings that I arise
before you again, and I ask myself how many
times shall I be able to meet with you. I was
among the first members that were organized
into a Relief Society by Joseph Smith. We
are the daughters of God, spirits that have
been reserved to come forth at this time to
gain an experience and return to Him; our re-
ligion grows better as we grow older, I am
proud of it. I expect to meet you all beyond
the veil, etc.
	Sister Thomas and Anna K. Smoot, both
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of this
work. Brother H. H. Cluff spoke on the prin-
ciple of Celestial Marriage, the principle was
true and for our exaltation and eternal in-
crease, blessings accompany our obedience at
all times; spoke of the responsibility of parents
in training their children aright, and surround-
ing them with proper influences; it was of
more worth to raise our cnildren correctly than
anything we could accumulate around us.
	Sister Zina followed with a few more re-
marks, said the principles we have heard are
true; we cannot pay too much attention to the
souls of our children; they are given to us, and

[Column 2]

they must bear off this kingdom; it is through
obedience that we receive our rewards.
	Sister John encouraged the sisters in all
good works. Explained some of our beliefs
and doctrines to a few who were present who
did not belong to our Church; bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the principle of Celestial
Marriage.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
				CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.
	RESOLUTIONS of respect upon the resigna-
tion of Sister Ruia A. Holden as President of
the Relief Society of the Fourth Ward of
Provo City:
	Whereas, In consequence of severe illness
our beloved President, Ruia A. Holden, has
been rendered incapable of attending to the
duties of her office, and has tendered her resig-
nation to the Society.
	Resolved, That while we deplore the neces-
sity of doing so, we accept her resignation.
	Resolved, That we appreciate her services
and labors in behalf of our society for upwards
of fifteen years.
	Resolved, That Sister Holden has the love
and esteem of the whole Ward, and will ever
be remembered with affection by us.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions
be recorded upon our books with our minutes,
and be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and 
Provo Enquirer for publication.
	Committee: M. A. Cluff, D. M. Meecham,
Caroline Daniels, Nancy Haws, Mary M. Boy-
den.
	Provo City, June 12th, 1883.


19 

