A PLEASANT PARTY.

	On the first of May the Primary Association
of the First Ward of Richfield with their presi-
dent and Second Counselor arranged a party
in honor of Sister Ruth Hayward’s birthday,
on that day she was sixty-nine years old; she is
first Counselor in the Primary Association.
She has been very faithful and interested for
the association, in teaching the children the
principles of truth. The children made the
day very pleasant with their songs, recitations,
dialogues, etc. Great credit is due the children
for their good order and the love they ex-
pressed to the aged. A number of the leading
sisters were present, and made some very en-
couraging remarks; also many of the parents
of the children were present.
	Sister Hayward was presented with some
presents, selected from the store by the Primary
girls; also many tokens of love. Sister Hay-
ward in a kind and motherly way expressed
her thanks for the honor and respect they had
shown her. Asked the Lord to bless the child-
ren. A bounteous picnic was then passed to
all in the house. The afternoon passed off
harmoniously, making in all a very pleasant
time.						MARIA.
	Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah, May 30th, 1883


A meeting of the lineal descendants of Gov.
William Bradford of Plymouth Rock, was
held in Cleveland, Ohio, May 10th, 1883. At
that meeting it was decided to publish a his-
tory of this distinguished family- All des-
cendants of the Bradford family are invited
to forward names and any facts of interest to
the secretary, S. B. Bradford, Carbondale,
Kansas, or the historian, Mrs. Lester V. King,
Auburn, New York. Any one disposed to
contribute means toward the history will
please send it to the treasurer and receiv-
er, Wm. Bradford Leach, Chilicothe, Mo.
	Mrs. Elmira Pinkham Tuft, feels to corres-
pond and assist in this matter. She is a lineal
descendant. Her grandmother was Abigail
Sterling Bradford; her own mother Betsy
Bradford Pinkham. Mrs. Tuft is also one
of the descendants of Tristram and Dyonis
Coffin. She is much interested in the subject
of geneaology.
	June 28th was the anniversary of the birth-
day of Sister Marinda N. Hyde, one of the
early members of the Church.


