[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | Unknown | Issue: 5 | Title: Christmas Thoughts | Author: Unknown]

	CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.
	To those who love the Christmas season
of joy and festivity there comes an appeal
for greater things than eating and drinking
and making merry. It is good to give and
blessed to receive, and yet there is some-
thing more precious still; it is the Christ
spirit that would make sacrifice for others,
the sublime charity that enters into the soul
of men and women, that loves all humanity
in the spirit of the great Master, who when
He was upon the cross cried, “Father, for-
give them for they know not what they do.”
	There is at present too much ostentation
and show about Christmas, and it has be-
come more or less demoralizing instead of
uplifting in its tendency. Exchange of
courtesies of a simple and unaffected nature,
greetings and congratulations, tender and
truly sympathetic, are ever acceptable, and
we should treasure these as jewels of the
brightest lustre.
	It is hardly possible to conceive, much less
to depict in words, the rich blessings that
have come to mankind through the birth and
ministrations of the Savior.
	“Gladly we sing on the Christmas eve
	Of the Babe that was born so long ago,
	And of Mary, the mother so sweet and pure,
	And of all the sorrow she lived to endure
	In the days of the wand’ring to and fro.”
	We should show by our good works that
we do appreciate the advent of our Lord
and Master into this world. When Jesus
said unto Peter, “Lovest thou me?” there 
was depth of meaning in His words; and to
emphasize His meaning He repeated His
words, “Lovest thou me?” And the in-
junction that followed, “Feed my sheep,”
was indeed significant of the love He felt for
those who needed the bread of life. We
cannot all minister as our Lord did but we
have within us what will help by word or
deed those who are weary and heavy laden;
and in our organizations we should culti-
vate and cherish the charity that feels for
“others’ woes” and minister to their wants
in so far as it is possible.
	The Relief Society in the various wards
throughout Zion, and indeed everywhere in
the world where the sisters are organized,
do try to attend to the wants of the needy
and afflicted and to scatter deeds of kind-
ness and shed rays of sunshine and hope
upon the pathway of life in the true spirit
of love.
	From our knowledge of Christmas fes-
tivities, England surpasses all other coun-

[Column 2]
tries in its picturesque and successful cele-
brations of this happy occasion. The char-
acteristic display upon the streets as pre-
served in word painting by those who have
in early life taken part in the songs and
festivities, the general music and display of
color and its accompaniments, is quite be-
yond description on paper: it must be seen
and heard to be effective. To be candid, it
is quite impossible to do the thing except at
Christmas time when the true Christmas
spirit is in the atmosphere and all hearts are
touched with the overflow of vitality that
bubbles forth in bursts of merriment and
joyousness. There is evidently such gayety
in the air that it intoxicates the brain of all
those who are susceptible to the influence
that uplifts as it were the humor of the
people at Christmas time. The feelings and
emotions, with the touch of human kind-
ness, that pervade the home and the family
circle at Christmas time instil a general
tenderness throughout all the village or
town. There is so much of goodness in the
workaday world that holiday times are wel-
comed more joyously than would be possible
perhaps without Christmas.
	After all, the celebration of Christmas
promotes and accomplishes far more good
than evil, even though folly and extrava-
gance are indulged in to a great extent.
Hospitality and the renewal of friendship’s
ties; the meeting together of families—all
these things make for that peace and unity
which is most desirable. Nothing in life is
more to be encouraged among friends and
kindreds than good fellowships, and the
coming together socially has the tendency
to eliminate ill feeling and to develop the
more excellent qualities of the heart and
mind that are latent in our souls, and to
create a desire for the higher aspirations
which produce harmony and lift us above the
petty weaknesses in ourselves or in others.
Good cheer is always enlivening and when
the feast is ready and grace is said, then
smiles, jests, and merriment prevail, and
after that, what more? Old songs are sung
and stories told, and fond recollections un-
veiled. Thus the soul is feasted.
	And so we say, “Christmas brings glad-
ness and joy.”


[Column 1]
