[Vol31 | October 1944 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Editorial | Title: Home After the Sharp]

569 EDITORIAL 2 NO. 10
Home, After She War SSS HE three words "after the wat' have seemed for a long time to be merely wishful thinking, but now, when the end of the wat in Europe, at least, does seem in sight, it is time to plan for the home in the postwar of the most pressing situations to be faced will be the re turn of thousands of mothers to the home as the war work in which many of them have engaged will cease. The question of women remaining in the home to personally care for their children, or hiring someone else to care for them, or leaving them to improper or no supervision at all, is a problem which is plaguing the entire Nation. Theres no hard and fast rule which can be laid down in this regard, each case deserves serious consideration on its own merits as to the right and wrong of the reason which causes a mother to absent herself from the home?reasons which range from the situation arising from the death or injury of the husband, to the mother who wishes to help out with the family finances, and so on down the scale until one reaches the mother who, tiring of her domestic duties, simply walks out on her family. It is not the present intention to enter into a justification or condemnation of the mother who leaves the Page 570 home, but merely to point out the fact that the great majority, it ls hoped, of the men will be coming back; war industries will cease; and the returning members of the armed forces must be given the opportunity to once more earn livelihoods for themselves and their families. When this situation arises, the mother who has left her home should be prepared to face the situation and accept it. She may find that she can slip back into her place in the family with no friction, on the other hand she may find her children resentful of the closer surveillance to which they will be subjected. The mother who has worked night shift and whose adolescent children have been allowed to do much as they wished, may find her problem the most acute, if, indeed, heartbreaking situations do not already exist. The Latter-day Saint mother has been taught that parents shall "teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." In November 1831 (in a. Day when the mother was in the home) the Lord said: Now, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, 

VOL 31 OCTOBER 1944 EDITORIAL but their eyes are full of greediness" (Doctrine and Covenants 68:31).
Have the eyes of some in this day been so full of greediness that mothers have put in jeopardy the very souls of their children? If any mother feels the pricks of conscience over the behavior of her children, let her but the more eagerly, earnestly, and prayerfully reassume her duties.
History teaches that a period of 571 lawlessness and excess follows after a war. As the industrial need for mothers decreases, the need of the mother, as such, will steadily increase.
Where it is at all possible for the mother who may have left her home to return, she should eagerly accept the opportunity, and rededicate herself to carry on those duties, given her by the Lord, for which she is and will be held responsible. M.C.S.