[Vol31 | October 1944 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Pohlman]

585 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of materials for 'Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. RELIEF SOCIETY WAR AND WELFARE SERVICES IN MISSIONS IN the August issue of the Magazine reports of war and welfare services by Relief Societies in various stakes were presented. In this issue similar reports from missions are featured. These "Notes from the Field" for both August, and October and the two following issues in which war and welfare reports will be continued are to be considered as supplementary and high-lighting the summary of these services for the organization as a whole, which appeared in the annual report for 1943 in the July issue of the Magazine. Argentine Mission KATE M. BARKER, recently released president of the Argentine Mission Relief Society, reported in a letter dated May 1, 1944: "Last year the Relief Societies had a project for increasing their funds.
They knit sweaters for the Swiss Government for their soldiers and received four pesos ($2) for each pullover. The Swiss Government furnished the yarn.
They are continuing this year.
Some of the Societies, with the money earned, paid the tuition for young girls who had to work to take courses in sewing. Page 586 "At the time of the San Juan earthquake they certainly responded wonderfully?contributing forty-two articles of clothing, mostly dresses they had made or remodeled." South African Mission Josephine H. FOLLAND, retiring president of Relief Societies of the South African Mission, wrote February 1, 1944: "We feel we have had a very successful year, both spiritually and financially.
With respect to financial matters, it has been _ our most successful year. In spite of all the war efforts that, of course, are continually going on, we were able to raise here in our Mowbray Branch over $400 at our annual bazaar; and most of the other Societies have a substantial balance on hand to work with during the coming year and for any emergencies that may arise. "Almost all our members have actively participated in some war services along with Relief Society work, such as Red Cross canteen and auxiliary work, and as blood donors, etc. We have one good sister, Charlotte M. Hancock, who is unable to attend regular Relief Society meetings as there is no organization in the Durban Branch, but she has NOTES FROM THE FIELD completed 129 articles for Red Cross 587 (including pajamas, hospital gowns, vests, shirts, etc.) and also she has made seventy-five visits in giving compassionate service to the sick, homebound, and bereaved. ?Here in Cape Town we are fortunate to have an American Service Club and, up until a few months ago, we have had a number of Americans stop here, a few Mormon boys among them.
Needless to say we were overjoyed in seeing them and
entertaining them at the mission home. I have been given the job of secretary of the Club and also have charge of it one day a week along with my two eldest daughters who help out as hostesses in the Club. ''As manpower in some of the
branches is scarce, especially here in Cape Town, the Relief Society sisters have had additional duties and privileges such as speaking in Sunday evening services and representing the branch, as well as the Relief Society, in their visiting teaching. "I have had the privilege of visiting the six other branches of the mission where there are organized Relief Societies, and they all express
their appreciation for Relief Society work and also the wonderful lessons and articles in the Magazine. We have fifty-five subscriptions to the Magazine with all the new officers for the coming year as subscribers, and two of the branches, Pretoria and Springs, have 100 per cent as subscribers. As our mission is scattered and we have to travel over such long distances between places, it is somewhat difficult today to visit the branches. Our trains are overcrowded
and of course we cannot use the car as we did formerly. We therefore have to contact many members by correspondence only. - Two of the charming dresses made from unbleached sacks by Relief Society women in the Southern States Mission. The dress at top has a pink yoke and pink embroidered flower. Scraps of bright printed material and appliqued strawberries add interest and beauty to the other dress. But we have been greatly blessed in that the members have learned to stand on their own feet more, and the majority have remained true and faithful."
Southern States Mission PFFIE MEEKS, president of Relief Societies in the Southern States Mission, is encouraging handwork and developing artistic skills
among the women of this mission. Working on the theory that something can be made out of nothing, she is fostering characteristic Latterday Saint thrift by utilizing materials at hand, including leftovers. The accompanying pictures illustrate a few of the lovely results. Sister 

 ?OCTOBER 1944 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Meeks writes as follows of the handicraft projects among the Relief Societies of this mission: "These children's dresses, made of flour and sugar bags, are beautiful in their simplicity.
They afford an opportunity for children, in families of limited means, to have dresses which are pretty and at the same time practical. The sisters of the Relief Society are taught to properly combine colors, so that with these bags or scraps, which would otherwise be destroyed, and a little shadow embroidery or appliqued flowers, clothes for their children can be made which will put them in the better-dressed class. "It is our duty, as Latter-day Saints, to be thrifty. We should also try to bring out our creative abilities which sometimes are hidden, and this is an excellent way in which to do both. In addition to the many other things which make it a worthwhile project, it teaches children the appreciation of lovelier things and shows to the world that we can dress our children well and still be thrifty. "Another project of the mission Relief Societies which speaks of creative and artistic ability is that of shell craft. Out of seashells, which are very plentiful here in the South, beautiful costume jewelry and household articles, such as lamps and plaques, are being designed.
This is indeed a fascinating work and it has proved to be a good hobby for convalescents. It teaches the ability to create with one's hands and also instills a desire for the finer things. It is being used successfully to create interest among the women when there is a tendency to grow tired of the same routine of making quilts and clothing. 589 "This shell craft possesses, in addition to its beauty, a commercial value. An easy market is found for it in the tourist trade which, in peace time, flocks to the Southland, and it can also be sold at Relief Society bazaars. It is something which the women of the South delight in making, for it is typical of the many things which can be made here in the South, if we but try to develop our resources. "Inasmuch as we have had our first conference in the Georgia District for lining up our fall work, I am enthused to the point that I should like to tell you about it. For our union meeting, I made assignments a few weeks ahead to the district president to have each one of the branches in the district give a demonstration of how this next winter's work was to be carried on. We had some very outstanding demonstrations from these little branches. The Atlanta Branch demonstrated how an ideal Relief Society should be conducted, the Columbus Branch presented the theology lesson, the song practice was conducted by the Augusta Branch, and the Macon Branch demonstrated the work day. I am sure each branch gained something from the others. "The Macon Branch gave such a good demonstration of the work day that I am sending you the samples they used. [See illustration.] They have a number of single girls and very young women belonging to the Relief Society, and they are teaching the very first steps in sewing.
Some of these women are servicemen's wives. All of these samples were done by hand because not many of them have sewing machines. A few pages from the loose leaf set of sewing samples used in the work meeting demonstration by the Macon Branch Relief Society, Georgia District, Southern States Mission.
Other samples show various basting and hand-sewing stitches, bias binding on both straight edges and corners, facings, plain and rolled hems, seam finishes, bound buttonholes, inset and patch pockets, plackets, bands with mitred corners, hemstitching,
and simple embroidery stitches. 590
Sister Florence Powell has spent much time in making up samples for the guidance and help of our women in learning to sew well, and she did not forget the economical side of conserving on thread in her training with hand stitches; for example, in the cross-stitched square, all thread is on top." British Mission ELDER HUGH B. BROWN, recently appointed president of the British Mission, wrote soon after his arrival in England of a mission-wide Relief Society convention held June 17 and 18, 1944, and of the bravery and devotion of these women who live in the war zone. His letter follows: RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN IN THE WAR ZONE RELIEF Society sisters from all
parts of the British Mission assembled in a mission-wide convention at Birmingham, June 17 and 18.
There were representatives present from all the districts and most of the branches, in spite of restrictions NOTES FROM THE FIELD on travel and the difficulties and inconveniences incidental thereto. "Sister Marie W. Anastasiou, president of the Relief Society of the mission, presided, and her counselors, Sister Nellie Poole and Sister Maud Hawkes, took charge of some of the meetings during the proceedings. "Upon walking into the banquet hall on Saturday evening, one felt at once to say, "This does not look like there is a war on!' for although Britain is rigidly rationed and although each family gets coupons for only sufficient for their actual needs, still these frugal sisters of the Relief Society had saved enough by a family rationing system within the national system to enable them to spread before the large numbers who were assembled a very palatable and refreshing meal and, in addition, to serve all the officers and teachers on the following day. "The theme of the conference was 'The Glory of God Is Intelligence,' and some very inspiring addresses were given followed by general discussion. "During the closing session Sister Anastasiou and her board were released with a hearty vote of thanks for their capable leadership during more than four years of strenuous activity.. "Sister Florence B.
Dunn was sustained as president of the Relief Society of the British Mission, and she selected Sister Nellie Poole and Sister Maud Hawkes as her two counselors. Sister Dora Smith of the London office staff was sustained as secretary. Sister Dunn has moved to the mission office in London where her husband, Norman Dunn, is acting as mission secretary 591 and she will serve as mission mother as well as Relief Society president. "When one meets with and talks to these brave British mothers, he discovers the source of stamina, fortitude, and courage which has characterized the British people during the years of this searching test. "We read daily in the press and hear hourly on the radio of the deeds of valor of our brave men in the fighting forces.
Many do not realize, however, that there are hundreds of Relief Society women in the war zone who have been exposed to dangers, trials and hardships, comparable to that which our men undergo in the battle field.
These brave women have carried on in the face of almost insuperable difficulties.
They form an army which gives an index to the character of the British people. A strange army it is, made up of grandmothers, mothers with children in their arms, spinsters, and little girls, not in uniform but in all the various colors and fashions worn by the members of various classes of society.
Working in the home, in the garden, in the factories, in the Church, smiling through difficulties, seeking shelter when necessary, emerging when the 'all clear' sounds to take up their tasks where they left them, and always with a simple faith and trust in God which is the envy of many stout-hearted men, "To kneel in prayer with these women and to hear them thank God for their simple blessings, for the preservation of their lives and the lives of their loved ones, and for their scanty provisions and their windowless homes is at once an inspiration and a reproof to many of us whose material blessings far exceed any enjoyed here, but who frequently at being deprived of a few luxuries. "While the spirit which I saw in the Relief Society convention continues, democracy and the spirit of the gospel of Christ will live and flourish, and victory for the ideals for which the Church stands will never be in doubt.?