[Vol31 | October 1944 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Snow in the Rockies Perrin]
TOWARD  RICHER  LIVING  551 
With    these    fundamental    prin-  Hgion  told  him  to  give  alms;  he  gave 
ciples  in  mind,  let  us  take  a  look  at  alms,  and  that  was  all    there    was 
the  world  in  which  we  find  ourselves,  about  it. 
to  see  if  we  can  discover  its  direc-  The  modern  social  point  of  view 
tion  of  travel,  and  also  to  make  some  and,  particularly,  the  idea  behind  the 
personal    decisions    regarding    our  Church  Welfare  Plan  have  quite  dif- 
course  in  Jthe  journey  of  life.  ferent  motives.    They  have  adopted 
One  observation  that  is  very  plain  the  principle  that  no  needy  person 
to  all  who  are  familiar  with  the  his-  who  is    willing    to   work    shall    go 
tory  of  the  race  is  that  people  in  all  hungry  or  cold  as  long  as  others  have 
lands  are  gradually  becoming  more  something  to  share.    Along  with  this 
conscious  of  the  social  point  of  view,  direct  giving,  however,  goes  the  prin- 
In  that  very  early  chapter  of  human  ciple  that  the   individual    shall  be- 
history,  Cain  asked    the    question,  come  self-sustaining  at  the   earliest 
''Am  I  my  brother*s  keeper?"  in  a  possible  time, 
tone  that  indicated  that  he  did  not  The  modern  social  point  of  view 
consider  himself  to  have  that  role,  brings  within  its  scope  not  only  food 
During  most  of  the  period  of  known  and  shelter,  but  also  the  elimination 
history,  people  have  not  felt  great  re-  of  ignorance  and  disease, 
sponsibility  for  others  who  were  less 
fortunate  than  themselves.  Poverty,  TT  is  very  unfortunate  that  social 
ignorance,  and  disease  were  con-  progress  has,  in  some  cases,  be- 
sidered  to  be  largely  the  concern  of  come  involved  with  partisan  politics, 
the  individual  who  happened  to  be  A  party,  in  order  to  gain  popular  sup- 
afflicted  by  them.  Even  though  port,  may  have  tied  up  with  its  plat- 
Christ  extolled  the  good  neighbor,  form  the  promise  of  unusual  benefits 
and  Mohammed  placed  the  giving  of  on  the  one  hand,  or  of  economies  of 
alms  as  one  of  his  four  cardinal  prin-  public  expenditures  on  the  other,  so 
ciples,  and,  even  though  there  have  that  the  scientific  and  proper  solu- 
always  been  helpful  hands  for  the  tion  of  the  problem  of  human  needs 
unfortunate,  this  aid  was  more  or  may  be  entirely  missed— and  the 
less  haphazard  and  often  did  more  whole  question  of  social  progress 
harm  than  good.  greatly  retarded.    The  sooner  these 
In   Persia,   which    is   a   Moham-  welfare  programs  are  divorced  from 
medan  country,  I  traveled  frequently  partisan    politics  the   better  for  all 
with  a  general  who  was  a  member  of  concerned. 
the  Shalis  cabinet.    It  was  his  cus-  Those  who  love  their  fellow  men 
tom  each  day  to  give  two  tomans  cannot  help  but  find  comfort  in  the 
(about  a  dollar)  to  the  first  beggar  trends  of  the  day  which  give  oppor- 
who  accosted  him.     This  finished  tunity  for  employment,    education, 
his  giving  for  the  day.    His  religious  and  cultural  advantages  to  all  who 
duty  was  discharged    and    his  con-  seek  them,  regardless  of  any  misfor- 
science  was  clear.    The  fact  that  the  tune  by  which  they  or  their  parents 
person  he  gave  to  was  not  necessarily  might  have  been   overtaken.     We 
the  most  needy  or  that  the  money  should  see  that  these  desirable  social 
he  gave  may  have  done  no  real  good,  trends  be  kept  within  proper  bounds 
did  not  enter  the  picture.    His  re-  so  they  will  not  suffer  the  reaction

552  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1944 
which   always   follows   unwarranted  ized  service.     This  trend    is  highly 
extremes.  desirable  since  it  promotes  a  higher 
The  advances  obtained  during  the  standard  of  living, 
past  generation  by  science  and  tech-  Just  think  what  riches  are  now 
nology  make  available  to  even  the  available  to  all  who  have  the  desire 
family  of  modest  income  physical  and  capacity  to  enjoy  them!  Take, 
comforts  and  luxuries  that  could  not  for  example,  the  field  of  music.  The 
be  enjoyed  even  by  kings  two  gen-  radio,  phonographic  recordings,  and 
erations  ago.  On  visiting  many  of  the  opportunities  to  hear  artists  di- 
the  royal  palaces  of  the  Old  World  rectly  make  available  to  practically 
I  have  frequently  been  impressed  by  everyone  the  finest  music  of  all  the 
the  fact  that  the  wealthy  monarchs  world's  great  composers.  Even  the 
of  earlier  times  could  not  have  the  rancher,  isolated  in  the  most  re- 
comforts  in  heating,  lighting,  and  mote  part  of  the  country,  may,  by 
plumbing,  that  the  tradesman  of  our  spending  only  a  few  dollars,  have 
day  expects  as  a  matter  of  course,  the  means  of  tuning  in  to  the 
The  attempt  of  the  wealthy  of  for-  greatest  musical  programs  of  the 
mer  days  to  increase  their  comforts  world.  What  richness  of  living  is 
required  that  they  maintain  a  re-  made  possible  by  this  combination 
tinue  of  servants.  These  could  only  of  favorable  circumstances  that  has 
imperfectly  supply  what  a  few  cents  developed  in  the  modern  world, 
worth  of  electricity  and  running  wat-  In  like  manner,  the  culture  of  the 
er  make  available  in  every  modern  past  and  the  present  in  every  field  is 
home.  within  the  reach  of  all,  even  though 
The  use  of  many  serving  people  everyone  is  not  prepared  to  take  ad- 
inevitably  leads  to  marked  class  dis-  vantage  of  all  of  these  good  things, 
tinctions.  This  condition  is  still  A  certain  background  must  be  de- 
found  in  the  Orient  where  modern  veloped  to  insure  adequate  apprecia- 
conveniences  have  not  yet  been  de-  tion,  but  the  education  necessary  for 
veloped.  Social  standing  is  often  this  can  be  had  by  anyone  with  am- 
measured  by  the  number  of  servants,  bition  and  capacity, 
and  those  who  aspire  to  the  esteem  The  mechanical  developments  of 
of  their  fellows  refrain  from  doing  the  modern  world  mean  that  in  agri- 
manual  labor  since,  in  doing  it,  they  culture,  in  manufacturing,  and  in 
lose  caste.  In  Persia,  I  was  constant-  transportation,  only  part  of  the 
ly  annoyed  by  having  so  many  serv-  energies  of  people  will  be  required  to 
ants  assigned  to  do  the  little  tasks  in  satisfy  human  physical  needs.  This 
my  official  work  which  I  should  will  give  more  leisure  time  for  the 
have  preferred  to  do  for  myself,  if  refinements  and  enrichments  that 
custom  had  permitted.  make  life  more  worth  living. 
Fortunately,  in  the  modern  world,  Improvements  in  health  resulting 
the  tendency  is  away  from  persona]  from  the  newer  knowledge  of  nutri-