TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
To the memory of Sister Elizabeth Stratton Skin-
ner, born at Graves End, Kent Co., England,
			April 23, 1855.
	Whereas we the sisters of the Graham Ward
Relief Society have been called to part with our
beloved President, who was called to the great
beyond Sunday, March 1, 1908. We do feel to
appreciate her labors, for she was indeed an un-
selfish worker; and through her patience love, and
self-sacrifice we do feel and know much good has
been accomplished. She was ever at the post of
duty even to the day she died. It can truly be
said of her, the world is better for her having
lived in it.
	In 1883, Sister Skinner was chosen Secretary of
the Relief Society in the Graham Ward and in
1885 she was chosen President of the Primary and
held both offices for 10 years. In 1896, she was
appointed President of the Relief Society of the
Graham Ward, which office she held until her
death. Therefore be it resolved, that we do truly
feel to sympathize with her dear husband and
children. And we pray that God’s healing influ-
ence may ever be near to soothe their lacerated
hearts, and that a copy of these resolutions be
given to them.
				MARY A. PETERSON,
				MARY E. TALLEY,
				HATTIE B. SKINNER,
							Committee.
Graham, Arizona.
				IN MEMORY.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Elizabeth Thornton, once a member of the Glen-
wood Ward, who passed away September 13th,
1907, after a long illness.
	Sister Thornton was a faithful Latter-day Saint.
For many years she was a constant worker in the
Manti Temple, and previous to that time held the
position as counselor to President Mary Ann
Buchanan, in the Glenwood Relief Society, which
position she filled with honor.
	Resolved by the sisters of the Glenwood Relief
Society, that we mourn our loss and that we ap-
preciate the purity of her life and the worthy ex-
ample she has set us to follow.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be re-
corded in the records of our society, also a copy
be sent to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
			DINAH JACKSON, President,
			MARGARET S. PAYNE, 1st. Coun.
			JOSEPHINE BELL, 2nd Coun.
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Our Beloved Sister Annie J. Wixom died, on
Sunday afternoon, December 22nd, 1907.
	Annie Jackson Wixom was the daughter of
George and Louisa Jackson; was born October
10th, 1846, in Shirdington, Gloucestershire, Eng-
land. At the age of ten years she became a mem-
ber of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, emigrated to Utah 1866. In the same year,
on October 13th, she became the wife of Justin C.
Wixom. In November 1866 they moved to Brig-
ham City.
	In 1878, when the Y. L. M. I. Association was
first organized in the 2nd ward Brigham City, she
was called to act as president, which position she
held with great credit for a number of years. She
also acted as teacher in the Relief Society in the
same ward for some years.
	June 13th, 1893, she was called and sustained
as Recording Secretary on the Stake Board of the
Relief Society of Box Elder, which position she
held with efficiency until the time of her death;
she also held the position of City Treasurer for
two terms.
	She loved the gospel and was an energetic and
faithful worker in the different positions she held.
	She was a sweet singer and was a faithful mem-
ber of the Brigham City Tabernacle Choir for 40
years.
	Annie J. Wixom had a kind and benevolent
heart, a pleasant, cheerful disposition, which won
for her, the love and friendship of all her co-labo-
rers and associates; she will be held in loving re-
membrance for her many noble qualities of mind
and heart.
		Lovingly from her Co-laborers
			SUSANNA P BOOTH, President.
			EMILIA D. MADSON,
			MARY J. HARDING, Counselors.
			LULA B. CALL, Cor. Secty.
			ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Asst. Sec.
			FANNY GRAEHL, Treasurer.


