	That evermore our reverence shall be
		A loving tribute to thy memory.
	E’en poets yet unborn shall sing thy fame,
		And future generations bless thy name.
									E. B. W.

	These lines were written for the card on
which was the picture of Zina D. H.
Young to present to her many friends on the
occasion of her seventy-fifth birthday anni-
versary at a banquet given by the Relief So-
ciety, in the Templeton Hotel, January 31,
18963, and the verse is so expressive of the
woman, that I thought it a good opening to
the personal impressions I am about to
give of this famous Mother in Israel.
	I remember many years ago, when I was
quite young, of saying, “Aunt Zina has a
real Madonna face,” and throughout my life
I carried the thought whenever and where-
ever I saw her; to us who knew and worked
with her, Zina D. H. Young needs no en-
comium of praise, but to the younger women
of today and those yet to come upon the
stage of action in this Church, she should
be represented in prose, in poetry, in pic-
tures that will give to them an idea of her
beautiful personality. 
	I hesitate in writing of such good women
as those with whom I have been associated
in the Church, knowing how impossible it
is to convey the true merits of the nobility
of their characters to those, who were not
familiar with them in life. 
	The writer implicitly believes that Zina
Diantha Huntington inherited from a fam-
ous ancestry many of the talents so wonder-
fully developed in her own life under cir-
cumstances and with environments and sur-
roundings so unfavorable, in many respects
to growth and culture, and without what the
world terms superior advantages. To me
Aunt Zina was the embodiment of all that
was loveliest in Motherhood, and I speak
the word Motherhood with the utmost rever-
ence possible to a nature that holds this
condition of woman eminently superior. 
	Sister Zina was known throughout the
Church and was as greatly beloved perhaps,
as any woman who has stood in high places,
among the great heroes and heroines of
Zion. She was a born physician, and came
of a long line of men of that profession. She
was what is termed in our day, a “natural
healer,” one realized as soon as she entered
the sick room the influence of her presence,
and as I have often remarked, she carried
about with her the “balm of Gilead.”
The motherly element so designated in
modern times, together with the gift of heal-
ing so largely developed by her through the
gifts and inspiration of the Gospel, gave to
“Aunt Zina” that intense sympathy with
misfortune and suffering, that brings one
into close communion with the hearts and
inner lives of those to whom they minister.
She was generously endowed with that true
