built, better attendance at meetings, beauti-
ful outlines prepared for Mother’s work,
giving better results, hoped the work now
would reach more of the young mothers;
dwelt upon this line of work and of young
women gaining knowledge, referred particu-
larly to preparation for motherhood, and
also to the greater opportunities nowadays;
spoke of establishing libraries and mentioned
the great responsibilities resting upon moth-
ers in training their children in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, exhorted tha mothers to
question themselves and see if they had done
their full duty, felt the opportunity given to

[Column 2]
us as women was more blessed than any-
thing in the world.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, one of the
general officers of the Society, made a tell-
ing and forcible address. She had left the
meeting this morning to pay her last respects
to one of our dear young mothers, who had
been called into the world beyond, and had
there heard many of the beautiful things
that our Elders can say about motherhood.
“How great is the wonderful mission of
mothers, we are blest beyond all women
and therefore should be the best mothers in
the world;” referred to the differences in
children, how easily some are led and how
difficut it is to guide others, urged faith and
prayer, thought the adversary was busier
than ever before. Spoke of the many
amusements that take the young people
from the home, and how watchful mothers
must be, to preserve the purity of the youth
of Zion; alluded to the young, innocent girls
coming from the country meeting with
strangers and in an idle moment perhaps
falling into danger, spoke feelingly of the
difficulties that have to be met, and stated
concerning a special committee that had
been appointed by authority, to look after
these matters and of the magnitude of the
work. Sister Williams gave excellent advice
that should be followed; thought that every
young woman coming to the city should put
herself in communication with the Bishop
of the ward where she expects to reside; re-
lated some facts that had come to her knowl
edge that proved that we sisters should all
be missionaries in helping our young girls
to protect themselves, prayed that all might
heed the warning she had given and added,
“May our Heavenly Father bless us with
wisdom and intelligence and help us to live
up to the Golden Rule, “To do unto others
as we would have them do unto us.”
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox thought the
care of the children had been beautifully
touched upon this afternoon but that little
had been said of their physical care; “no wo-
man who marries and becomes a mother
but should know how to nurse, many moth-
ers know little about caring for health, every
human being is a bundle of tendencies,
which shows us the need of knowledge;
some mothers are natural nurses, but
every mother should know a little of
hygiene and physiology, more children in
their infancy and early childhood are in-
jured by being over-fed than in not having
sufficient food, and disease is often fostered
by uncleanliness. We should not forget that
disease is a poison, mothers should reach
out their influence in the neighborhood and
help physically as well as other ways
spiritually and mentally. “I do believe
that through the care of wise parents chil-
dren may be saved. We ought to have
power to prevent so much sickness among
children.”
	Sister Minnie H. James said that the be-
ginning of her Relief Society work was when
a little girl she went to the meetings with
her mother to take care of the sisters’ chil-
dren while they quilted and sewed, and her
idea was if we would teach our children that
their real pleasure was in helping others,
perhaps we could overcome this excessive
pleasure seeking. If we have the Spirit of
the Lord it will be a guide to us.
	Sister Alice M. Horne referred to the good
things she had heard today, and felt after
all that she might be a better mother than
she had been before. Referred to her visit
in Arizona and a conversation with a physi-
cian she met there, and the question arose,

[Column 3]
“Why do so many young mothers die?”
The physician stated his experience in this
matter had led him to believe it was due to
excessive dancing; girls work all day and
dance at night in over-heated, or badly
ventilated rooms, and they attended parties
when they are not in a proper condition of
health; Sister Home maintained girls should
be taught to stand well, these things can be
taught in early youth, believed in the edu-
cation that began in the home, take proper
care of ourselves, in every way, our health
is almost the first consideration, spoke of
beautiful and attractive homes.
	Prof. W. C. Clive played a very beautiful
violin solo accompanied on the piano by
Master Clifford Clyde. 
	Congregation sang, “Lord dismiss us with
Thy blessing,” etc. Benediction by Sister
E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WEL, Secretary.
Close of first day’s Conference.


