[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB,
From October 31, 1901 to October 31, 1906,
	with a brief history of the first decade.
	Lydia D. Alder historian.
		(Continued from page 48.)
	Mention was made at this meeting of
the special conference of the Mormon
Church, held November 10, 1901, and the
installation of Joseph F. Smith as the
President of the Church, and the election
of Bathsheba W. Smith as President of
the Relief Society in all the world.
	At the January meeting, 1902, Mrs. E.
B. Wells reported that the case of books
made up by the Club (who also paid for
the case), be brought here (Exponent
office), from whence it would be sent to
the Ladies’ Literary Club House. It
would then be sent out with the other
cases of the Traveling Library.
	At the February meeting, 1902, Mrs.
McVicker was appointed as the Club’s
delegate to the biennial convention to be
held in Los Angeles in May, 1902.
	A motion waa made and carried at this
meeting that the Club subscribe for the
“Club Woman.” An article was read
and commented on, “The Mellowing of
Occasions,” from a copy of the same.
	This being the birthday of our Hon.
president, Mrs. E. B. Wells, good wishes
in her behalf were expressed by all the
members present. Mrs. Wells being out
of the city could not meet with us.
	At the March meeting of 1902, Mrs.
Bickford addressed the Club on State and
General Federation, and spoke of the
coming biennial.
	Mrs. Wells spoke of her visit to Hull
House, Chicago, giving an interesting ac-
count of the same.
	The closing meeting of the season was
held at the house of the president, Mrs.
Alder, who gave a talk on her recent visit
to Scotland, including the cities of Glas-
gow, Edinburgh and Stirling.
	She spoke somewhat at length of Ar-
thur’s Seat in Edinburgh, and the visit of
Parley P. Pratt to that noted place, which
overlooks the whole of Edinburgh. Bro.
Pratt, but newly arrived in the city, knelt
on this famous Arthur’s Seat, his eyes
resting on the city below and prayed to the
Lord to give him two hundred souls out
of that city, and he would be satisfied.
This the Lord did, just two hundred, no
more, no less. Mrs. Alder also spoke of
her ride through the Trossacks (by coaeh
and boat), and her sail on Loch Lomond.
	Miss May Alder recited one of her
mother’s poems, “Mary Queen of Scots.”
Mrs. George D. Alder sang beautifully,

[Column 2]
accompanied by Prof. Schettler on the
guitar,who also played “My Old Kentucky
Home” and “O My Father,” in his talent-
ed style. At this meeting Mrs. Alder had
invited the Reapers’ Club, and some of
her close friends.
	At the September meeting, 1902, the
president, Mrs. Alder, gave an interesting
account of her visit to the Countess of
Warwick, while she was in England, and
the efforts of the Countess to better the
condition of the poor girls in Birmingham.
Said all but two of the pen manufacturers
had been won over by the countess, who
was hopeful of good results from her ef-
forts to aid these poor girls (unskiilled
labor they are called).
	Mrs. Emma McVicker, our delegate to
Los Angeles, gave an account of the bien-
nial, also a Greek play she had seen, and
her visit to the club called Strawberry.
The account of her visit to the battleship
Wisconsin was truly appreciated.
	At the business meeting, held October,
1902, Mrs. R. B. Pratt was named as the
delegate to the Federation, to be held
in Ogden this month. Mrs. Alder, the
president, also attended the Federation.
	Miss Estella Neff, in Current Events, spoke
of the honor conferred on Miss Nannie Tout,
who had been invited to sing before Queen
Alexandria, and referred to others of our
Utah boys and girls who were studying
abroad, in Paris, England and Germany,
who had won honors in painting and sculp-
ture, as well as music. An address of in-
terest was given by Mrs. Ida Haag, on the
Russo-Japanese War.
	At the April meeting of the Club, held in
the Exponent office, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark re-
ported the meeting of the Federation Pro-
gram Committee and stated that an original
contribution had been requested from the
Press Club.
	Mrs. Francis gave a lecture on India and
East India life, which concluded the program.
	At the May meeting, held on the 29th of
that month, it was moved and carried that
the Club adjourn until September. Mrs.
Clark, the President, invited the Club to
meet her at the Lagoon, June 25th, 1904.
	On that occasion the Club and the mem-
bers of the General Board of the Primary
Associations were the guests of President
Clark. A delightful time was spent at the
Resort, where the guests were entertained
by Mrs. Clark, her daughter and friends.
An enjoyable program was carried out. All
present were unanimous in their opinion
that the meeting was the most enjoyable of
the season.
	At the September meeting of the Club,
Mrs. E. S. Wilcox gave a most interesting
account of the chief objects of interest at the
World’s Fair, just held at St. Louis. Mrs.
Mary F. Kelly submitted two original poems
to the committee of adjudicators, for trans-
mission to the Federation of Women’s Clubs
at Logan. Mrs. Clark, President, and Mrs.
Estella Neff were appointed as delegates to
the State Federation of Clubs, October 20th,
1904, at Logan, and Mrs. M. Francis and Mrs.
Mary Kelly were appointed as alternates.
	The October meeting (the annual) was
held October 29th, 1904, at the home of Mrs.
Francis and Mrs. Kelly, 333 Second Street.
The election of officers resulted in the elec-
tion of Mrs. Maria Francis as President; Miss
Stella Neff, First Vice President; Mrs. Lillian
Maeser, Second Vice President; Mrs. E. S.
Wilcox, Secretary; Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, Cor.
Sec.; Mrs. Hattie Harker, Treasurer.
			(To be Continued.)


