[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Meeting of the Utah State Society
Daughters of the Revolution, was held April
16, Thursday, in the Woman’s Exponent Office
at 3 p. m. Regent Mrs. Ella W. Hyde in
the Chair first Vice Regent Miss Catharine
Wells, Recording Secretary Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright, and other officers and members
present; also Mrs. Augusta Coray Lewis guest.
The Regent and most of the members re-
sponded to call with patriotic sentiments,
relating to the Battle of Lexington, it being
so near the anniversary of that memorable
day when the first shots were fired, that
brought about the liberty of the American
people of which we are all so justly proud.
The papers were in relation to the critical
period that elapsed after the close of the
war and before the inauguration of the first
President of the United States, Papers were
read by Mrs. Thomas G. Webber and Mrs.
E. B. Wells and contained many interest-
ing facts and incidents that are not gener-
ally known or if so, are not familiar even
among those who are well versed in American
history. The Utah State Society D. R. will
celebrate, its first decade during the present
year.
	The Utah Women’s Press Club and the
Reaper’s Social united in giving a party in
honor of the birthday of the founder Mrs. E.
B. Wells on Friday evening, February 28,
preceding her real birthday anniversary,
which occurred on the 29th. The party was
held at the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and was quite a grand affair. The hall and
parlor were prettily decorated with flowers,
vines entwined with ribbons, and the rooms
were filled with members of the club and in-
vited guests. Mrs. Wells being the guest of
honor. Instrumental music, songs, speeches
and poems were rendered and delicious re-
freshments served in the dining room,
which was also decorated, and everything
possible to make it a joyful affair was
done by the ladies of the clubs. Mrs.
Wells was the recipient of some valuable
gifts and toward the close of the evening
she responded in a very feeling manner
though her emotions were almost too strong
to permit her to do justice to her friends,
who had been so generous and kind, both
in word and deed. At the close a hymn
was sung and a prayer offered. Mrs. Wells
desires the ladies who paid her such a tribute
of esteem and affection to accept her heart-
felt acknowledgments and gratitude for the
respect shown her, and in whatever way she
can serve them, she will be most happy to
show them favor, and they have her love and
sincere appreciation.
	General Board of the Relief Society held a
public reception on the birthday anniversary
of the Secretary Mrs. E. B. Wells, Saturday
29, 1908, in the famous Lion House parlor,

[Column 2]
from 2 to 5 p. m. The parlor and hall were
artistically decorated and a string band of
musicians rendered some of the choicest
music in such soft sweet strains that the
harmony was most delightful. Flowers in
profusion lent their sweet fragrance to the
atmosphere of the dear old house that is al-
ways full of tender memories of the days
gone by. Mrs. E. B. Wells was assisted in
receiving by her life-long friend Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith also her daughters Mrs.
Isabel Whitney Sears and Mrs. Annie Wells
Cannon and the members of the General
Board who were there to add to the suc-
cess and pleasure of the friends who called
to shake hands and pay their respects to the
woman who had reached the four score mile-
stone of life. During the afternoon the Pre-
sident of the Society in a few well-chosen
words presented the Secretary with a purss
of money given by the members of the Gen-
eral Board. So unexpected was the gift and
so modest the manner in which the purse of
gold was given that no demonstration fol-
lowed. The Daughters of the Pioneers also
presented her with a signet ring of pure gold
but Mrs. Wells was requested to tell the
ladies about her advent into the world, and
other real birthdays that had been celebrat-
ed, and she complied in an affable and
rather humorous style. It is said that near-
ly or quite six hundred people called at the
Lion House and shook hands with Mrs. Wells,
Mrs. Smith and other ladies. The room it-
self was almost a bower of roses carnations
and fragrant emblems of love and beauty.
Light refreshments were served to all the
guests by young girls grand-daughters and
nieces of Mrs. Wells. Altogether it was a
delightful affair, a gala-day in Midwinter,
and though the wind blew a gale in the
morning, the afternoon was pleasant and all
things considered it was perhaps as auspici-
ous of good, as the day on which Mrs. Wells
was ushered into the world, a tiny infant, in
a far-off New England home.


