[Column 1]
	President Annie S. Musser of Liberty
Stake responded to the greeting of the Gen-
eral President, she was indeed gratified that
we had Sister Smith with us, and hoped
she might live to meet with us as long as
she desired, her name was a household word
among all the Saints. “We know she has
been honored of the Lord, a noble daughter,
a true wife and a glorious mother, and we
bow to her almost in adoration, for she
stands at the head of the grandest charitable
organization in the world. We are blest of
the Lord and because our work is so unself-
ish. We have been called, we have been
chosen, to represent our Heavenly Father
here on earth in connection with the Priest-
hood, and I ask our Father in heaven to
bless all the workers. May our motto ever
be, “Faith, Hope and Charity,” and I ask
it in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Contralto solo, Miss Mabel Cooper.
	Stakes were called to report first: presi-
dent, E. L. S. Udall, St. John; President
Bathsheba B. Grundy, Wayne; President
Louisa B. Benson, Oneida; President Mar-
garet A. Romney, Ensign; President Min-
erva E. R. Knowlton, Davis.
	Supt. Emma A. Empey of Relief Society
nurses, made a plea for more young women
to be sent this year, to take the nurse course,
and dwelt briefly upon the great need of
more nurses and the benefits to the young
women themselves as well as good to others.
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie also spoke upon the
same subject making an earnest appeal to
the presidents and others to interest the
young women in the study of nursing.
	“Angel’s Serenade,” Miss Lottie Brain.
	More Relief Society, stakes were called.
President Matilda Flamm reported Fremont,
President Susanna P. Booth, Box Elder.
	Morning session closed by singing, “Re-
deemer of Israel.” Benediction by Sister
Rhoda A. Lyman.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m., opened by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints,” prayer
was offered by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon.
Singing led by the musical director, Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward, “Daughters of
Zion rejoice evermore,’’ composed expressly
for this Relief Society Conference by Sister
Annie Wells Cannon, and before singing the
song was read to the congregation by Sister
Alice Merrill Horne, the singing was accom-
panied by Prof. W. C. Clive and his son,
Master Clifford Clive, and the hymn was
very beautifully rendered.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde made the
opening address of the afternoon, she re-
ferred to the reports made in the morning,
commended the sisters for their earnest,
faithful and diligent labors, knew they had
depended upon the Lord, felt the good done
was invaluable, and spoke of the beautiful
hymn just sung, written by Sister Cannon,
that it just carried the spirit of the work;
she felt there was a very decided growth in
the Society the past year, more granaries
