[Column 1]
Objects of reading—knowledge, pleasure,
and pastime. (c) Good and evil of books.
For the good; Force yourself to reflect on
what you read. For the bad; A man may
be eating all day and for the want of diges-
tion is never nourished, so these incessant
readers may cram themselves in vain with
intellectual food.
	Lesson 7.—Home the child’s world.
	Make the home beautiful, encourage fami-
ly singing. Provide music of some kind.
Encourage the making of beautiful things
at home. Get tool boxes for the boys, and
make their rooms neat and pretty, as well as
the girls rooms.
	Lesson 8.—The parent and the school.
	(a) Don’t feel that when your little one
enters school life your responsibility for his
training is over, in fact it is greater than
ever. (b) Between the parent and the
teacher there should always be some ac-
quaintance and communication. (c) Parents
should acquaint themselves with the con-
ditions and conduct of the school as well as
the home and thereby aid both the teacher
and the child.
	Lesson 9.—The sin of gossip.
	(a) “Judge not that ye be not judged for
with what judgment ye judge ye shall be
judged.” (Matt. 7:1.) (b) Be not hasty in
condemning others. Speak of their good
qualities rather than their misdeeds. We
might do things that would be just as wrong
if we were placed in similar circumstances.
(c) Have some subject for discussion at
sewing bees and working meetings.
	Lesson 10.—Courtesy.
	Courtesy is uplifting as it leads each to
render proper respect for another. (b)
Wives should be courteous to their husbands
and children. (c) Children should be taught
to be courteous. (d) Advantages to be de-
rived.
	Lesson 11.—Honesty.
	(a) If thou shalt find that which thy
neighbor has lost thou shall make diligent
search till thou shalt deliver it to him again.
(Doctrine and Covenants.) (b) When chil-
dren pick up articles of value do we encour-
age them to try to find the lawful owner?
	Lesson 12.—Observance of the Sabbath
		day.
	(a) Exodus chapters 16, 20, and 23.
(b) It is good to do good on the Sabbath
day. (Matt. 12, verse 1-14. (c) Mothers
should so arrange their work that as little
manual labor as possible be performed on
the Sabbath.
		FLORENCE WEBSTER,
		ROSE LUNT,
	Committee of Cedar City. 
		OUTLINE UINTAH STAKE.
	Lesson 1.—Marriage ordained of God.
	Multiply and replenish the earth (Gen.
chap. 1). “Neither is the man without the
woman nor the woman without the man in
the Lord” (1 Cor. 11: 11). “It is not good
for man to be alone (Gen. 2:18).—Marriage
to be held sacred. The Lord interfered to
protect Abraham’s wife from being defiled
(Gen. 12: 17-20). Defiling of woman next
to murder (Book of Mormon, Alma 39:5;
Doc. and Cov., sec. 132).—Eternity of mar-
riage. When the Lord gave Eve to Adam he

[Column 2]
made no condition of time. Our latter-day
marriage covenant is for eternity, to bind on
earth, given to Joseph Smith (Doc. and Cov.
110: 11-16).
	Lesson 2.—Affection.
	1. Love of parents for each other. 2. Of
parents for children. 3. Of children for pa-
rents.
	Aim: Love in the home is necessary to
gain and maintain the highest ideal in home
government. General Truth—Love induces
patience, gentleness, long suffering, etc.
	Suggestions: 1. “If we love one another
God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected
in us” (John 4: 12). 2. “Thou shalt live
together in love (Doc. and Cov. 42-45; See
Doc. and Cov. 121. 41-46). Love may be
encouraged by a proper consideration of one
another’s feelings.
	Lesson 3.— Definition. 
	General, special as regards wording.—
Prayer. (a) All words given. (b) Portion
given. (c) Own wording.—Kinds of special
as regards purpose. 1. Praise and thanks-
giving. 2. Pleading and intercession. 3.
Supplication and confession.—Necessity of.
1. Because of our dependence on God. 2.
As a source of comfort. 3. As a protection
from evil. 4. As a means of spiritual growth.
—How made effectual. 1. Belief in God.
2. Acknowledgement of his power. 3. Ob-
servance of his laws.—Attuned with power
addressed. 1. By pure motive. 2. By
humility and worthiness.—Desirable place
for Prayer. 1. Public worship (III Nephi
18: 16). 2. Family (III Nephi 18:21).
3. Individual (Alma 34: 26).
	Note.—Consult any of the standard L. D.
S. Church works.
	Lesson 4.—Economy in the home.
	Definition. 1. Of means. 2. Of time. 3. Of
strength.—Economy. Topics for discussion.
The effects of going into debt. Value of
time. Select other appropriate topics.
	Lesson 5.—Definition. General.
	How to cultivate cheerfulness.—Cheerful-
ness, affects digestion. The welfare of the
home. The welfare of the community. In
the performance of irksome duties. In bear-
ing losses and crosses. In the sick room.
In the giving of gifts cheerfulness keeps
the heart from despairing. Discuss the
actual or probable effects of worry upon
the mind.  Of Levity. General Truths.
Worry excitement, and all the emo-
tions of anger, hatred envy, etc., weaken
the mental powers and exhaust the nervous
system. Quotations—“Blessed is she who
is hopeful in spirit for she finds sunshine in
shadow.” “It is easy enough to be pleasant.”
	When life flows along like a song,
	But the man worth while
	Is the one that will smile
	When every thing goes dead wrong.
	Lesson 6—Moral education. Games.
	Social duties in the home. Amusements
in the home.
	Propositions for discussion.—Sabbath vis-
ting. Sabbath night socials. The effect
of going into society too young.
	Aim: To show the relation of social du-
ties to the welfare of the home.
	Sugestions: Christ pictured the beauty
and graciousness of social life in many par-
ables Example. The reach man’s feast, and
his seeking his guests in the highways. The
marriage supper; His portrayal of the rich

[Column 3]
man’s table; and above all his lovely promise
that the faithful should sit down with Him
at the bridal supper of the lamb of God.
	Lesson 7.—Proper conduct in houses of
		worship.
	Providing room for many. Comfortable
seats. Away from objects that distract the
mind.—Dedicated to the Most High. Words
of inspiration given and received. Ordin-
ances of the gospel performed there.
	Aim: To encourage reverence for houses
of worship and discourage loud laughter;
loud talking; any unnecessary disturbance;
marring the furniture. Expectoration on the
floor, any unnecessary soiling of the floor.
	Lesson 8.—General, Special.
	Command; Counsel; Advice. How given;
Vision; Revelation, where recorded; Inspira-
tion.—Word of wisdom. Protection from
enemies; For physical development; For spi-
ritual development.—Salient points. In-
jurious effects of tea, Tannic acid, etc.—
Coffee, Coffein, etc.; Cocoa, Theobroma;
Condiments other stimulants. Agreement
with scientific knowledge (See Doc. and Cov.
sec. 89.
	Lesson 9.—Obedience to God.
	Source of all power, light, love, justice,
mercy; love, deference, power; Equality, jus-
tice, mercy. To God, to parents, to law of
land. Incentives to obedience. Blessings
obtained through obedience; Results of dis-
obedience. General Truth—Salvation comes
through obedience.
	Lesson 10.—Tithing in early times.
	Abraham pays tithes to Melchizedek (Gen.
14: 18-20); Jacob vows to pay (Gen. 28:22)
The Israelites tithed (Lev. 27:30-34). Mae-
diaeval times: A blessing to follow (Mal. 3:
7-12). Approved by Jesus (Matt. 23:23;
Luke 11:42); Practised by the Nephites
(III Nephi 24: 7-12). He that is tithed
shall not be burned (Doc. and Cov., sec. 64:
23, 24 and 85:3); One tenth to be paid (Doc.
and Cov., sec. 119: 1, 4); Higher law repre-
sented by it (Doc. and Cov., sec. 42 and 51).
In latter days: Pres. Snow promised that
the Saints should be blessed if they paid an
honest tithing—has been fulfilled.
		PHEBE A. MERKELEY,
				Stake Secretary R. S.

