charity which hopeth all things, and in the
exercise of these sacred gifts she so distin-
guished herself among the sick and the sor-

[Column 2]
rowing as to gain the appellation of “Zina,
the Comforter.”
	Strictly religious in mind and character,
inheriting from her Puritan ancestry those
strong elements of endurance, for her faith,
zeal and devotion in the exercise of her be-
lief and religious liberty, and spiritual and
inspirational in that degree that is uplifting
in its tendency and effect, was the impres-
sion she made upon me. 
	Humility was one of Aunt Zina’s crown-
ing virtues, yet she had the courage to face
difficulties that to many would be appalling,
and the fortitude and endurance that knows
no wavering and is in itself a triumph. 
	Throughout the land of Zion and wherever
the gospel has been spread the names of
Sister Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young
are heralded and linked together. Their
lives fitted into each other admirably, and
together they labored for the good of hu-
manity, and particularly for womanhood and
the youth of Zion. 
	Sister Zina will, I trust, be remembered
for her indefatigable labors in the silk indus-
try. This people owe much to her efforts in
many directions. In all the details of
work, and in the hardships of pioneer life,
Sister Zina had an abundant share. The
early pioneer women had to make their own
soap, candles, starch, molasses, and what-
ever was needed without machinery of
any kind; and there was carding, spinning,
dyeing, knitting, weaving, besides ordinary,
regular, everyday duties; in all these
Sister Zina took part. Through all these
and manifold other experiences, Sister Zina
still retained that gentleness of spirit that
won the hearts of her coworkers and en-
deared her to all her associates; she pos-
sessed that rare delicacy of sympathy which
brings to the human heart sweet consolation
when under the most painful afflictions.
The gentle ministrations of women have
been beautifully portrayed by poets and
writers and by artists and sculptors, but
none of the artificial productions can bring
to the human soul the exquisite rendering of
divine power, which comes through human
tenderness in the hour of supreme need. 
	Sister Zina was a wonderfully gifted pub-
lic speaker, her tones were thrilling, and
her voice and manner always pleasing. 
	She impressed me as one greatly favored
of the Lord, and her presence among the
women of Zion was like a benediction. Vol-
umes might be written of her, and yet “the
half not be told.”
	“Wherein her very look
		We read her face as one who reads,
	A true and holy book.”

	Zina Diantha Huntington Young was born
at Watertown, New York State, January 3,
1821. Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, August
28, 1901.

	In dwelling upon the lives of the great
women whom I have known; and with whom
my lot has been cast, it is comparatively
easy to say a great deal, but not so when
one must single out a few prominent char-
acteristics. 
	The writer has in the past published
much concerning these heroic women, and


