A GRAND AND HAPPY DAY.
RANDOLPH R. S. MEETING.
	The seventeenth of March introduced it-
self to our locality in a rather flustered con-
dition.
	The winds blew a gale all day long as if
his satanic majesty had sat in council with
his co-laborers to frustrate the celebration
of the grandest day for women that ever
dawned for woman since the great mandate
came, let there be light when darkness fled
and light pierced the gloom.
	As the voice of spring cheers and invigo-
rates so does the return of this memorable
day bring comforting reflections to the memo-
ries of those who were fortunate enough to
be present at the meeting, held March 17,
1842, when the man of God stood in their
midst and declared that he was now ready
to organize the sisters.
	And ever since the utterance of these
words that fell from his prophetic lips,
woman has kept on in the path of advance-
ment and freedom of thought held out her
arms, and a veil seemed to be drawn aside
and light beamed, woman then seemed to
realize her true position here on earth.
	It was to commemorate the birth of this
eventful day that the Randolph Relief So-
ciety assembled at two o’clock p. m. on
March seventeenth, 1908.
	The meeting was presided over by Presi-
dent Celia A. Spencer.
	Our stake officers being all present, it
seemed to lend zest and influence to the oc-
casion, opening remarks were given by our
honorable Stake President Sarah Tyson, her
discourse was replete with the spirit of her
high calling. She referred to some of the
sayings of our beloved President Joseph F.
Smith in regard to women’s work, highly re-
commended the great work that was being
accomplished by the Relief Society in our
stake. Her indefatigable labors along with
her co-laborers in regard to relief work is
certainly something to be admired.
	Our annual fund was explained by Stake
Counselor Hannah Telford, she also added
some timely remarks.
	Sister Mary F. Shelly recounted some of
the trying scenes, Sister Amanda Smith
passed through during the Haun’s Mill
Massacre.
	President A. McKennon said the spirit
that prevailed was heavenly and inspiring,
exhorted the sisters to love one another and
continue in their untiring work of charity.
	Bishop Gray’s remarks were confined to
the holy mission of woman, the self-denial
that she was in possession of, encouraged the
sisters to take advantage of the nursing
course and be prepared to nurse our sick with
wisdom. He referred to the great impor-
tance of the mother’s work among our young
married sisters.
	At the close of the meeting ice cream and
cake were served under the auspices of the
local officers.
	An old time dance was enjoyed by all in
the evening. Thus ended another of the
well spent days which only the Saints of
God can enjoy.
