[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of Nebo
Stake Relief Society held at Salem, Utah
Co., December 13, 1907, commencing at
10:30 a. m. President Eliza J. Dixon pre-
siding.

[Column 2]
	After the usual exercises of singing and
prayer President Pierce of Salem spoke a
few words of welcome. 
	President Dixon spoke a short time on
our need for spiritual food and the necessity
of attending all the different organizations.
	President Pierce reported Salem Ward.
Fourth Ward of Spanish Fork by Sister
Swensen. President Ann Bingham, Benja-
min Ward, and bore her testimony to the
truthfulness of the gospel, also releated the
story of Job and his faithfulness.
	Song by Sister Christianson and others,
entitled “Ye Must Be Bora Again.”
	Sister Evans, one of the Stake Board
spoke on Christmas, and some of the prophe-
cies concerning the coming of the Savior
and his birth; also spoke very beautifully
on the vision of Nephi, and related the
greater part of it; also the Prophet Samuel,
the Lamanite, and the coming of the Savior
on this continent.
	Recitation, a sister from Spanish Fork,
entitled “Crippled Ben.”
	Exercise on parents class work by Sister
Hughes of Spanish Fork, 2nd ward, on
habit, which was given very beautifully,
with numerous illustrations.
	Morning session closed by singing and
prayer.
	Afternoon session: President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding. We continued our services
with our usual exercises.
	Sister Hallen spoke on the duties of par-
ents to children, and the environment of the
home. Said, we should have our homes
clean and the Spirit of God there. Our
homes should be a heaven on earth, not
shut up our best rooms from our children
and be careful what kind of pictures we
have on our walls. Always tell our children
the truth, teach them good language by
example and never let our children hear
vulgarity in the home; also teach them the
word of wisdom by example. Advised cook-
ing our food on Saturday and keeping the
Sabbath day holy. Related an instance of
answer to prayer.
	Song by Sister Emma Peterson, entitled
“Hold Thou My Hand.”
	Sister Cappel spoke on our duties to our
children; also said as much as we do our
part in the gospel we will be blest; referred
to a sermon printed in the Deseret News by
Elder Richards, believes the time is coming
when the judgments of the Lord will be
poured out upon the people and it will be all
we can do to escape. Teach the children
to pay tithing and when they grow up to be
men it will not be hard for them.
	Bishop Taylor of Salem spoke for some
time, said he had enjoyed the remarks of the
former speakers; believes that example is
stronger then precept; referred to the re-
sponsibilities of parents. We are of all peo-
ple the most blessed and we should be very
thankful that we have our homes among the
people of the Lord. Spoke of people among
us that don’t believe in prayer. asking bles-
sing on the food or paying tithing and its
influence on our children, we should pray
without ceasing.
	Recitation, Violet Gardner, entitled, “The
Way ward Son.”
	Brother Hanks spoke on the Relief Society
work; also said that fathers and mothers
should be the greatest teachers of their chil-
dren.
	Sister Dixon thanked the people of Salem
for their kindness and hospitality manifested
today.
			E. A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.


