[Column 1]
Lecture 3.—Nature Study.
	a. Give the children a piece of ground to
cultivate and plant with grain, vegetables
and flowers. Teach them how to irrigate,
cultivate and care for it. b. Teach them to
study and love the bird kingdom. Teach
them how to care for and love animals, to
love nature, for God hath created it for the
use of man. (Gen. 1 and 2 chapters.)

Lecture 4.—Our Children are Precious
			Jewels.
a. The little children all, are flowers sent
	from heavenly gardens above,
With minds as fresh as new-turned earth,
	to be planted deep with love,
And the years of our care will quickly
	tell,
The flowers our gardeners love so well.

	Teach the children they have come to fill
a mission, instruct them in the principles of
of the Gospel (Doc. and Cov. 68:25.) b.
Teach them that obedience is better than
sacrifice (Doc. and Cov. 68: 31.) We can-
not devote too much of our time to the pol-
shing of our jewels, they are God’s gifts to
us. “Suffer little children to come unto me
and forbid them not, for of such is the king-
dom of heaven” (Mark 10: 14.)

Lecture 5.—Preparation for the Future.
	a. The progress we make here goes with
us into eternity (Doc. and Cov. 85: 118.)
b.We owe a duty to our children’s future
mates. Teach the boys to put their clothes,
books, etc., away neatly, and thus they will
be helpful rather than a hindrance, not only
to mother but to their future wives. c. Story
telling as a means of education for our chil-
dren. As much as possible let your stories
be of noble deeds and actions that will show
the folly of wrong habits, viz., selfishness,
dleness, slothfulness, etc., overcome evil
tendencies not by punishment, but by con-
tinual direction of the mind to something
higher and nobler.

Lecture 6.—The Sin of Gossip.
	a. Be not hasty in condemning others,
speak of their good qualities, rather than
their misdeeds, we might do things that
are just as wrong if we were placed in simi-
lar circumstances. “Judge not that ye be
not judged, for with what judgment ye judge
others ye shall be judged (Matt. 7: 1.)

Judge not that ye be not judged, for ’tis
	high to be a judge.
If I would be pure and holy, I must love
	without a grudge.

	Have some subject for discussion at sew-
ing bees and work meetings. Have respect
for all God’s creatures, for ridicule is the
weapon of the ignorant, A plain face and
plain clothing should not be the basis of our
estimate of people. Value the conduct and
the. qualities of the mind above all else.

Lecture 7. —Our Bodies are Temples of the
Living God (Doc. and Cov. 93: 35.)

We gaze at the wonders of nature,
	We reflect on God’s excellent plan,
The earth in its grandeur, the heavens and
		seas,.
	But his most beautiful work is man.

	a. Teach our children to keep their bodies
clean and pure. Teach them the value of
deep breathing, fresh air, exercises, and of
standing erect. We are made in the image
of God, and should keep that image as per-
fect as possible.

[Column 2]
Lecture 8.—Parables.—The Ten Talents
(Matt. 25: 14-30)
	a. What talent do I possess? Do I culti-
vate it? Patience, faith, cheerfulness. The
power to instruct or comfort others, or any-
thing that tends to make life better or
brighter, are talents which should be culti-
vated. b. It is selfish for mothers to devote
all of their time to their families. Benefits
from working in Church organizations.
Woman’s advancement depends on her own
efforts and not entirely on her husband’s.
The first requirement to successful life in any
capacity is to love the work.

Lecture 9.—Place of Worship is Holy.
	a. Teach the children to be quiet and
orderly in the house of God; it is wrong to
let the little ones run and play in the aisles,
and for the older ones to whisper and make
a disturbance during services, these things
are displeasing to our heavenly Fath-
er, and an offense to our friends who visit
our places of worship, for the house of God
is a house of order.

Lecture 10—A good Woman and a Good
Worker are Separable.
	a. A home woman, one who reigns as
queen in her own home, by administering to
the wants of her family.
	“Blessed is the homemaker, for her hap-
piness shall be multiplied.
	b. Blessed is the worker who hath pleas-
ure in her labors, for joy will crown her
efforts (Doc. and Cov. sec. 15.)
	In combining these qualities we often
make a failure.
	c. Holding too many offices is detrimental
to both home and organizations (Personal
observations.)

Lesson 11—True Object of Relief Society
Work.
	a. Visiting the sick, effects of cheerful
company, looking after the poor. Im-
provement in home life. b. Responsibility
of teaching the gospel a very essential duty.
(Mark 15: 16.)

Lecture 12.
	Review and discussion of benefits derived
from Mothers’ Work of year’s study.
				LUCY A. STEERS,
				JULIETTE BLACKBURN,
				SARAH J. DALTON,
Relief Society Stake Presidency.


