[Vol31 | September 1944 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]

NOTES TO THE FIELD Modification In Visiting Teachers Program Collections by Visiting Teachers Discontinued. IN view of present provisions for care of the needy through the Church Welfare Program with emphasis upon the bishop as the source of supply, and in recognition of the fact that the women of the Church now contribute for charitable purposes by giving volunteer service on Church welfare projects such as sewing, food conservation, et cetera, the  , Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Relief Society War Bonds So Be Deposited With General Board THE annual reports for 1942 and 1943 indicate that stake and ward Relief Societies have purchased war bonds totaling approximately $45,000. Inasmuch as most Relief Societies will be reorganized once or more before these bonds mature and inasmuch as few Relief Societies have their own safety deposit boxes, it is recommended that these bonds be deposited in the office of the General Board for safekeeping. No charge will be made for this service. Bonds mailed to the General Board for safekeeping should be sent by registered mail. A receipt will be issued for each bond received, showing the name of the stake or ward Relief Society to which it was issued, the date of issue, the series, the bond serial number, the face value of the bond, and date of maturity. As the bonds mature, they will be returned by registered mail to the respective Relief Societies which own them. A Relief Society wishing to cash a bond before maturity may procure its bond at any time, upon request, accompanied by the receipt of deposit issued by this office. Bulletin No. 24, issued February 19, 1942, to all stake, ward, and mission Relief Society presidents, pointed out, on page 13, that Series E bonds are for issue only to individuals, that any bonds purchased from Relief Society funds should be either of Series F or G, and should be in the name of the Society, not in the name of an individual. Instances have since come to our attention of the purchase of Series E bonds from Relief Society funds, issued necessarily in the name of an individual. Relief Societies which have purchased Series E bonds are advised to turn in these bonds at once and have them replaced by bonds in Series F or G, issued in the name of the stake or ward Relief Society. The General Board will accept no Series E bonds for deposit. 
 ?SEPTEMBER 1944
Suggestive Quilting Prices QUILT-MAKING is both traditional and extensive in Relief Society, as indicated in the 1943 annual report (Magazine for July 1944, p. 70), and thousands of quilts are made annually for various purposes. Relief Society women give willingly of their time in quilting for the needy and for co-operative help-one-another projects. They are also given opportunity to earn funds for their local Relief Societies by making quilts for sale at bazaars, and for the accommodation of individuals who order from the Society either complete quilts or the service of quilting. Obviously, Relief Society members should not be expected to give service on such custom quilting at rates which yield too little income for their respective Societies in proportion to the quilt-making service. In response to numerous requests for suggestive prices for custom quilting, the General Board submits the following: Tied quilts $2.00 to $3.00
Plain quilts of simple pattern, large design or straight lines $4.00 to $5.00
Pieced or appliqued quilts, and quilts of one material, such as rayon, with decorative quilting.............. $6.00 to $12.00
Quilts of extremely intricate design with very close quilting, $12 and up A few popular pieced and appliqued quilt patterns, and designs for quilting, are shown in the accompanying illustrations, and may be helpful to Relief Society women.