[Vol31 | September 1944 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Theology The Priesthood Restored]

LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 3?The Priesthood of God Restored For Tuesday, December 5, 1944
Objective: To outline the steps by which man was again given authority from on high. IT is said that the golden age of conversion, is in the late teens. Then a youth questions the truths of life to know which way to set his course. So it was within this crucial period of young Joseph Smith's life that the Lord chose to place him upon a probationary status. Between the ages of eighteen to twenty-two this future Prophet had his yearly meetings with the angel, remained faithful to his trust, denied not his heavenly visitations, and yet lost not the common touch among his fellowmen. His character, for the life of service God had planned, thus was developed in those most important years of his early manhood. During this time there must have come to Joseph the realization that God's way of working with men was a natural way. It was through his word as found in the Holy Scriptures that Joseph first felt the desire to seek his Maker. Now again God had chosen to usher in the fullness of times with added Scripture which could be read and pondered; which could ever be at hand; which could, if read with a sincere heart, quicken the mind and live in memory until it became a constant companion and counselor. Page 536
The plates which rested in the earth were real.
They could be handled and kept until their precious truths were permanently caught in the language men know today.
There was a sense of belonging that came with so tangible a link between the world of heavenly beings and that of men.
Small wonder that Joseph grew in faith as he waited for that day when he was to receive this marvelous treasure through the power of God.
That day came, and with it the real and earthly joy of precious things.
Upon shining gold, in thickness slightly less than that of a common sheet of tin, about eight inches in width, all of uniform size, and LESSON DEPARTMENT bound together by three rings, were the plates.
These formed a book about six inches in thickness.
With the book came also the Urim and Thummim, two precious stones set in an arch of silver which was fastened to an ancient breastplate of pure gold, curiously wrought. (See Cannon's Life of Joseph Smith, pages 22-23) These things to delight the eye were even more enhanced by the thought of the great truths of the gospel which were locked within the finely drawn characters upon each plate.
Joseph was to have the gift of translation which would unlock their meaning. It must have been with the flush of achievement that this young man of twenty-two yearned to set about this assignment of reading "a voice from the dust." But all was not easy, for, even on his first journey homeward with the plates from the hill, he was assaulted by men who tried to destroy him. No sooner was it learned that the plates were in his possession than persecution dogged his footsteps. So bitter were his trials in Palmyra that he decided to go to the home of his wife's father, Mr. Isaac Hale, in Pennsylvania. It was at this time that Mr. Martin Harris, a well-to-do farmer of Palmyra, came to his aid by providing a gift of fifty dollars to help him on his journey. The story of Martin Harris and his early assistance as a scribe in helping him to translate the records has been covered in the assigned classwork of Lesson Two of this series. It is to our purpose now to center upon the swift-moving events which brought to a completion the translation of the records within a the coming 537 period of but a few months. Oliver Cowdery, who through faith and personal testimony (See Lesson One) was brought to the aid of Joseph Smith as his second main scribe in the undertaking, began, on April 7, 1829, to assist the Prophet. On June 11, 1829, a copyright was secured for the Book of Mormon and arrangements were made with a Mr. Egbert B.
Grandin to print five thousand copies for the sum of three thousand dollars.
During the fall and winter of 1829, while Joseph visited at his wife's home in Pennsylvania, Oliver Cowdery was busy with the printing and publication of the book. Then, in the spring of 1830, the Book of Mormon became a reality to the world..
Other friends who helped Joseph and Oliver through the bitter persecution that followed them entered upon the scene during these swift passing months. Joseph Knight of Colesville, Broome County, New York; and the Whitmer family, friends of Oliver Cowdery, at Fayette, Seneca County, New York, offered financial aid and a home. Joseph Knight supplied needed funds and David Whitmer the residence. The latter portion of the records was translated at the Whitmer home.
While these historical facts add much to the interest of the story of forth of the Book of Mormon, they, in and of themselves, lacked the spirit of testimony that comes through the revelations given to the prophet during this period. Revelations, many of which were prompted by the desire of Joseph and Oliver to know more fully the true meaning of the power of God's word which Joseph read from the 538 plates and Oliver recorded. So it was that the third important step was taken in the establishment of God's work in the latter days?that of the restoration of the Priesthood of God to man. One day during the work of translation, Joseph and Oliver came upon a passage in the Book of Mormon which spoke of baptism for the remission of sins. The words were quick and clear. No one could enter the Father's kingdom except through this ordinance. Had they been baptized? It was clear from the text that in the days of ancient America those who joined the Church of God did so by actually entering into a covenant with God through the waters of baptism. Why shouldn't Joseph and Oliver so comply?
They felt the desire and necessity to act in accordance with this doctrine. But how?
After discussing the matter at length, they sought answer to their problem through prayer; and so they went outside to the wooded banks of the Susquehanna River that wound its way through the State of Pennsylvania where _they then were living. It was the 15th of May, 1829. Here, in the brightness of the warm spring sunbeams that streamed down through the trees, the two young men knelt and spoke their wishes to God.
Presently in a cloud of light that exceeded the brilliance of that beautiful day, there stood beside them a heavenly messenger.
Placing his hands upon their bowed heads, he spoke, "Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of  repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness" (Doc. And Cov. Sec. 13). The Priesthood of God was again bestowed upon mortal man!
Joseph and Oliver now could act in the name of God. The messenger who thus had come declared himself to be none other than John the Baptist known of old in the New Testament who now acted, he said, under the direction of Peter, James, and John. The sweep of a great river lay just beyond the spot where John had ordained these two "fellow servants" of the Lord to the Priesthood of Aaron. "Go and be baptized," he commanded, giving directions that Joseph should baptize Oliver and then Oliver should baptize Joseph.
After the ceremony within the water had been completed, then, in turn, Joseph and Oliver ordained each other to the Aaronic Priesthood.
Once more the power of God had been made known to Joseph, in company this time with his newfound friend, Oliver Cowdery.
Simple and direct though these acts had been, the two young men felt the cleansing power of the ordinance which, performed within the river's flow, had swept away their sins. 'The Holy Ghost fell upon them and they prophesied great and wonderful things concerning the rise of the Church. No longer now was there doubt within their minds as to the meaning and purpose of baptism.
They had asked, received, and performed the first step necessary to enter into LESSON DEPARTMENT the kingdom of God. With Pentecostal zeal they set about proclaiming the news of their commission to act in the name of God, citing their authority from the Scriptures. 'Their friends began to receive their testimony, Samuel H. And Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brothers, being among the first to be baptized.
Soon after, several members of the Whitmer family saw fit to accept the authority of the Priesthood conferred upon Joseph and Oliver. It was not long after this that Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris were chosen as special witnesses of the Book of Mormon and were shown the plates by none other than an angel from the presence of God.
Sometime later, between the 15 of May and the end of June, 1829, the exact day is not recorded, came the higher Melchizedek Priesthood to Joseph and Oliver under the hands of Peter, James and John, and with this authority the gift and sealing power of the Holy Ghost.
Then again before the close of June of that year came the revelation concerning the calling of Twelve Apostles, for the last days, who were to aid in the building of the Church which was to be established with the fullness of the gospel. God would then set in order his work with the power as well as the form of godliness.
Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first answer the question; second read the assigned part of the 539
Doctrine and Covenants to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word," which has been written for our life in this day. The restoration of the Priesthood of God to man in the fullness of times came by way of two earnest young men, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, who had learned to treasure up the words of life (Doc. And Cov. 84:85). These fellow servants of the Lord sought diligently to understand this treasure by seeking the wisdom of what they read concerning eternal life, as it unfolded to them during their translation of the Book of Mormon. It would be well in the discussion period of this lesson to draw closer to the hearts of these men by reading the word of the Lord through Joseph to Oliver as this is recorded in Sections 8 and 9 of the Doc. And Coy. First, however, have the class answer the following questions: 1. What are the gifts of the Spirit? Have a class member make a list of these on the board to start off the discussion. I Cor. 1224-11; Moroni 10:8-17; Doc. And Cov. 46:11-26. 2. What is God's way of helping man to help himself? Note the instructions given to Oliver Cowdery in Doc. And Cov., Section 9. 3. Study Section 13 of the Doc. And Cov., phrase by phrase, to catch the beauty and sweep of this simple act which restored again the link between mortal and immortal man. The next question may be used if needed for further class activity or it may be assigned for home study: Section 10 of the Doc. And Cov., concerning the alteration of the manuscript of the fore part of the Book of Mormon has many personal lessons of value to one who would learn through the mistakes of others. What are the passages you would be moved to comment about? 
 ?SEPTEMBER 1944