[Vol31 | September 1944 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Parables]
Their appeal is universal; their effect, everlasting.
From the viewpoint of their place in literature, Dr. Charles A.
Dinsmore says: How great an artist further attested in his parables, They have been packed into a Space so small! The characters are sketched, and even their de. Hey are taken from therefore true to life and nature.
These stories of such high artistry, radiating light and truth, are a most Precious part of our literary and gospel heritage, Everyone will do well to get closer to them and treasure them.
Discussion and Activities 1.
Recall some well-known fable, as The Lion and the Mouse," "The Lark in the Cornfield," "The Man, His Son and the Donkey," "The Dog With a Piece of Meat." Tel] each story briefly and give its moral.? 2. Be prepared to give briefly any one of the following or some other New Testament parable: "The Tares in the Field" (Mait. 13:24-30); "The Ten Virgins" (Matt. '25:1-13); "The Parable of the Vineyard"' (Mark 12:1-11); "The Lost "" (Luke 15:3-10); "The Prodigal Son" (Luke 15:11-32).
Explain briefly the spiritual lesson of the parable you select. 3. (a) What vital value is there in a - good fable or an apt parable for the teach. Er? (b) In what one thing are these two types of stories alike? How are they basically different? 1/Dinsmore, Charles A., The English Bible as Literature?Houghton Mufflin Co, 2/ Jacob, Aesop's Fables, ?or Some other good edition.
Many of the fables of Aesop are to be found in children's readers, 544 4. (a) Be ready to join with your class in making a list of ten or more of the classic parables of the Savior. (b) Give two reasons why this Master Teacher frequently used the parable. 5. (a) What inspiration for teachers today is there in his use of this kind of  story? (b) Recall same apt parable or analogy you have heard a successful teacher use to make a lesson come to life. Note: See the article ?Types of New Testament Literature," by Dr. Russel Swensen, in this issue of the Magazine, page 483. Social Science NO social science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season.  ANCIENT BOOKS (See Frontispiece Picture) Several sorts of materials were anciently used in making books.
Plates of lead or copper, barks of trees, bricks, stone, and wood, were originally employed to engrave such things and documents upon as men desired to transmit to posterity....
Tablets of wood, box, and ivory were common among the ancients; when they were of wood only, they were oftentimes coated over with wax, which received the writing inscribed on them with the point of a style, or iron pen: what was written might be effaced by the broad end of a style. Afterwards, the leaves of the palm-trees were used instead of wooden planks; also, the finest and thinnest bark of trees.... Hence, the word liber [Latin] which signified the inner bark of trees, signifies also a book. As these barks were rolled up, to be more readily carried about, the rolls were called volumen, a volume; a name given likewise to rolls of paper, or of parchment. Paper, papyrus, is a kind of reed which grows in the Nile.... The kings of Pergamus invented parchment....
Made of the skin with which beasts and their members are covered. Of these leaves of vellum or parchment, books of two descriptions were made; one in the form of rolls composed of many leaves of vellum sewed or glued together at the end.
These were written on one side only, and required to be unrolled before they could be read. The other kind was like our present books, made of many leaves fastened to one another, and written on both sides.... The ancients wrote likewise on linen.?From Calmet's Dictionary of the Bible, 1847.
