[Charmer by Pansye H. Powell]

Charmer Pansye H. Powell Lulled by the gentle, soothing touch of sound Falling on thought like rain on thirsty ground, What man is there who never has been wooed By music's magic from a bitter mood? If he is happy, music is as gay, And in his sorrow charms his grief away! President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Called Back as a Counselor in the First Presidency of the Church Sustained Second Counselor in the First Presidency, April 9, 1951 _ Elder Henry D. Moyle Of the Council of the Twelve FE, had read repeatedly of the many accomplishments of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., prior to his initial call to the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. His work had already distinguished him as a man of great capacity. A lifetime of effort had fully him for that office, which first came at a time in life when most men retire. Now, added to this, is the experience of the last eighteen years to further qualify him for present membership in the newly organized First Presidency to serve President David O. McKay as he has served President George Albert Smith, and before that, President Heber J. Grant. His career in public service as an international lawyer, soldier, and - teacher was. Distinguished. It was climaxed by his appointment as Under Secretary of State, and United States Ambassador to Mexico. Nevertheless, his crowning achievement, a result of a humbler activity, is and shall ever remain his service in the cause of the Master and his fellow men, as a member of the First Presidency. No words can do justice to a life such as his, unselfishly devoted to others. Men in high places have qualified. PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. For years borne record of his accomplishments. For example: President Hoover in a letter accepting President Clark's resignation as Ambassador to Mexico, wrote among other things: "Never have our relations been lifted to so high a point of confidence and cooperation and there is no more important service in the whole of foreign relations of the United States."
Secretary of State Stimson declared: "Your distinguished service as American Ambassador to MexPage 373 374 ico has reflected signal credit upon our Department of State." When President Clark was appointed Ambassador to Mexico, one newspaper printed the following: Mr.
Clark stands among the few diplomats of the first order that the West has produced. It is somewhat unfair to Ambassador Clark, however, to say that the West produced him. As a matter of fact, J. Reuben Clark, the Ambassador, is the product of J. Reuben Clark, the student, the investigator, the worker and the faithful servant of the government.
There is no finer example of a man who has risen through sheer merit in the whole history of the foreign service. Mr.
Clark is responsible for his own success.
Throughout his life he has scorned political favoritism and has expected every man to stand on his own feet.
This crowning achievement in his career comes as a natural sequence of his devoted service to the government in many capacities. Elder Albert E.
Bowen of the Council of the Twelve, an intimate friend and business associate, when asked many years ago to give an estimate of President Clark's character, wrote: The personal endowment and qualities which have made possible his varied and distinguished achievements are perhaps three, with their corollaries: First: A vigorous and discriminating intellect. His is the rare power of penetrating through all confusing, superficial envelopments to the root and marrow of a confronting problem. Second: A prodigious power of work— a constitution which seems able to respond to any draft that may be made upon it.
Work is his vocation and his avocation, his pursuit and his pastime. Third: An uncompromising, undeviating honesty—intellectual and moral honesty. "Face the Facts," is a characteristic expression of his, He spends no time in  working upon schemes of evasion.
Having been surrounded with abundant opportunity for graft and acquisition, he has come through without the smell of fire upon his garments. No opprobrium has ever attached to his name. To him sham and pretense are an abomination.
Years after the foregoing testimonials, how wonderful it is that President Clark's ability and devotion are even greater and increasingly recognized. President David O. McKay on taking office recently said: "President Clark is a wonderful servant. You have had demonstrated here this morning his ability to carry out details and he is just that efficient in everything pertaining to the work." No matter what the task has been, his performance has represented. The best. IS formula for success is hard work, and he still follows that formula.
Likely more enlightening than any words one might write of this great man are his own expressed thoughts. At the beginning of his ministry eighteen years ago he disclosed his great foresight and virtue in a sermon given by him in the Tabernacle at the general conference of the Church. The following is an excerpt therefrom: The world is moaning in tnbulation. I do not know the cure. The questions involved are so nearly infinite in their vision that I question whether any human mind can answer them. But it is my faith that if the people will shun idleness, if they shall cast out from their hearts those twin usurpers, ambition and greed, and then shall re-enthrone brotherly love and return to the old virtues— industry, thrift, honesty, self-reliance, independence of spirit, self-discipline, and mutual goodness—we shall be far on our way to a returned prosperity and worldly happiness. We must again yield fealty to the law that wealth, however great, is a mere shadow compared with the living, enduring riches of mind and heart. . . . The world problem is not primarily one of finance, but of unselfishness, industry, courage, confidence, character, heart, temperance, integrity and righteousness. The world has been on a wild debauch materially and spiritually; it must recover the same way the drunkard reprobate recovers—by repentance and right living.

What was said by his friends ten years ago of President Clark is true today.

"He is vigorous in body, keen in intellect, sound in his thinking, sagacious, studious, prayerful in heart, with a rare penetration of mind. He is a tower of strength among his people and acknowledged everywhere (in and out of the Church) as a leader."

With it all, he is considerate, thoughtful, and ever mindful of all, high and low. Firmness and kindness are blended by him in all his decisions, almost to perfection. He is solicitous of the welfare of all his brothers and sisters in the Church. He constantly attends their needs.

It is no wonder the Church Welfare Program has enlisted his deepest interest and consequently his most active support. He has said:

The prime duty of help to the poor by the Church is not to bring temporal relief to their needs but salvation to their souls.

The rule of the bishop in all these matters is the rule of the Priesthood, a rule of kindness, charity, love, righteousness.

Little is known of his philanthropy beyond his beneficiaries. It would form an interesting chapter were we able to disclose but a part of what he has done for others. No one in the service of the Church has a better friend. He knows what it is to work and he appreciates the feelings of those who toil daily for their livelihood. He concerns himself with the unfortunate, seeks to assist them, to bless the sick and to comfort those who mourn.

Voltaire disclosed a spirit shared by President Clark when he wrote: "Love truth but pardon error. The mortal who goes astray is still a man and thy brother. Be wise for thyself alone, compassionate for him. Achieve thine own welfare by blessing others."

Time is his most precious possession. He is methodical in the extreme. To him there is a time and place for each of his many activities and each is orderly and punctually accomplished.

One key to his success is his ability to delegate to others those things which others can do for him. At the same time, no matter falling within the sphere of his responsibility is too small to receive his careful attention.

To him the disposition of the tithes and offerings of the people is a most sacred trust. He zealously guards the interest of the Church in all matters with an unselfishness seldom equalled among men.

To know President Clark is to love him. His friends and admirers are legion. The true test of greatness is found in the personal appraisal of those most intimate. The closer your association with President Clark, the deeper and more lasting your affection for him.