[Tribute to Adele Cannon Howells by LaVern W. Parmley]

Tribute to Adele Cannon Howells LaVern W. Parmley First Counselor to Sister Howells in the Presidency of the Primary Association life of devoted service to the principles of her faith came to a close Saturday, April 14, 1951, with the passing of Adele Cannon Howells. She was born in Salt Lake City, January 11, 1886, a daughter of George M.
Cannon and Marion A. Morris Cannon. She attended the L. D. S. High School and graduated from the University of Utah in igog. She taught school for a short period and then became associated with the Salt Lake Recreation Department for a number of years. She was married to David P. Howells, March 12, 1913, in the Salt Lake Temple. Sister Howells was called to be first counselor to May Green Hinckley, General President of the Primary Association, January 1, 1940.
After the death of Sister Hinckley she became General President of the Primary Association, July 20, 1943. As president of the Primary Children's Hospital Board and editor of The Children's Friend, Sister Howells was a tireless and diligent worker. She served the Primaries throughout the Church with a keen and personal interest. She so glorified work that she translated duty into privilege. On January 12, 1948, she was elected to the Hall of Fame of the Salt Lake Council of Women because of her outstanding accomplishments. Sister Howells walked each morning with a new sense of. Goodness; She opened her heart wide to all  ADELE CANNON HOWELLS beauty and wisdom. She interested herself in life and mingled kindly with its joys and sorrows. She treasured friendships, she judged kindly, she did small tasks graciously. She had charity in her heart for all. She believed in the everlasting beauty of the universe, in the supremacy of good over evil, in the conquering power of love, the brotherhood of man, and_ the omnipotence of the spirit. She believed in judgment without prejudice and that there is nothing so contagious as happiness. (Continued on page 427)(Continued from page 382) Though comparatively young in years, Adele Cannon Howells was old in hours. She had lost no time. The distance on life's journey ls marked not by leaves torn from the calendar but by the number of good deeds done. Sister Howells lived by faith. She had faith in her co-workers and faith in her leaders. She had an unwavering faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ. She trusted in her Heavenly Father with all her heart. In all her ways she acknowledged him and he directed her paths. Let's Write a Story (Continued from page 387) a person. Kipling used a mongoose in his deathless "Rikki-tikki Tavi." The hero, or villain, of one best seller was a storm. Plotting is the chain of events upon which the writer proves his characters and his premise. 'The plot should be taken from _ the events in life that test the mettle of the people that live, or from imaginative events within the possibility of reason. It is of no use to tell the reader that our characters are brave, heroic, and ingenious. We must prove it by plots that put their qualities to the test. WHEN the author has chosen and built well thus far, he can assume the pose of the bystander, like a man who has plowed his furrows and built his dams, and now 427 the number of | * * * * * * a * Beautiful 3-Part * ( horuses for, * Womens Vowes* * bg — Beautiful Dreamer --5.16 a By the Waters of Minnetonka.16 —— Dear Land of Home -- _-15 -_ Green Cathedral _ 18 ae I Heard a Forest Praying _.20 — I'll Take You Home Again Kathleen - io | — In the Time " Roses a 3
Let All My Life Be Music 20 en Tree@S __ 2-----nnneeeeneeeee eee 16 = O Entrancing Night 18
Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47
South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. [] On Approval []) Charge oP poet Enclosed Name oo ee ceeeee ccc cccecccceceeeeceeecsecessscceeeeceeeseeeesesenseees Address 7 ee eee: City & Stanton eccccecceecee ceecceseceeneneeneene i FIRST OF ALL — RELIABAITY Ly au nes MAIN STREET Vo SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTanM 428 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built v_-- All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People | 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH has only to stand by and watch the water irrigate the land. If he turned pigs or molasses into these channels, his purpose would be defeated, but not more so than the author who sets unruly people in weak" plots and has no direction, or premise. All other qualities of the story should be the natural outgrowth of the premise, the characters, and the plot. 'These other elements are: conflict, background, suspense, mood, dialogue, even the final outcome of the story. The dynamics of reactions of one character upon another, against premise and plot, are the conflicts.
Some of those recognized are: man against the elements, man against nature, man against ignorance, man against man, and man against himself. 'The world is full of conflicts  that grip the heart, situations so vital that actual life or death depend upon human decisions, and concepts that will sway for good or evil the eternal spirit of man. 'The discerning author will not be forced to the overplotting and unnatural reactions so prevalent in cheap literature. | Plot and conflict lead to suspense, a powerful tool of writing, for without it the story will have no readers. A newspaper tells the story of an event in the first sentence, even in the headline. It is retold in the first paragraph, told again in more detail in the second, and enlarged upon thereafter. 'This newspaper method reverses all the laws of good story telling, but is necessary be- _ cause a space-making editor or a headline-scanning reader may chop it off any place, and it must be complete. In the short story, interest and curiosity are caught in the "story hook," preferably in the first line, and built up from that small beginning. 'There is a steady rise in emotion, a steady thickening of plot and growing tension toward the climax, which immediately precedes the end of the story. The author must finish off the story in quick and telling strokes after the climax, or his readers will leave him and he has lost the game he has been playing with them. "THE author creates the feeling of authenticity in many ways, causing his reader to identify himself with one of the characters of the story, and feel as familiar in the background as if it were his own.
Sound character analysis, true emotional reactions, natural conversation, the logical order of events, the LET'S WRITE A STORY flow of one situation into another, all further authenticity. The clever author appeals to the five senses, so that the reader hears the waves booming against the cliffs, rustling and hissing among the rocks, smells the rank seaweed and the faint fishiness of the water, feels the rush of it onto. The beach, the sand give way beneath his feet, the pull of the undertow when it > recedes, as well as seeing the lines of breakers ride in to spend themselves against the land.
Take this setting, add a darkening sky, make the windblown seagull be lost against a somber sea, his cry stilled in tempest, and you have mood. Not all published stories have mood, but it is a good tool to engender gaiety, peace, dignity, anger, fright.
These can be brought about by using word families. 'The careful author will not mix his key words, as: ethereal, light, sodden, fairy.
Mood is the music of writing. All that 'has gone before may have been done in the mind of the author or on paper, but only now will he be ready to write.
Good beginnings are striven for, titles carefully chosen, names of places and people worked out to be least confusing and to demand the most arresting attention. A short story will rarely accommodate more than one mood, one pivotal character, or one viewpoint, and will tolerate no excess of words or ideas. A good painter details only the focal point of his painting, and the detail of a short story is given in dialogue and drama.
Dialogue should further the story or not be used.
Speeches should express the character rather than the author. 429
You Women Can be Prepared in time of emergencies your time will be in demand. Prepare yourselves right now for vital office work. Courses are available to you at L. D. S. Business College either day or evening classes.. SUMMER TERM Starts June 4
You're cordially welcome at | 1) BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 NORTH MAIN 'Salt Lake City
IDUUUUQQNQQQQEEOUUUEEOUOQOOUOCEOEREOONOOTOUOUOEREEQUCT TOT EETUOUUET NUE AAAAUUU TNE
Professional and Social Stationery © COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 40
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah 430 PLAN NOW TO ENROLL - - BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY SUMMER QUARTER First Term: June 11 to July 20
Second Term: July'23 to August 25 SPECIAL FEATURES THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MUSIC FESTIVAL se ae BAND AND ORCHESTRA CLINI FAMILY LIFE INSTITUTE LECTURES—CONCERTS—RECITATIONS A broad offering of Graduate and Undergraduate courses will be taught by the strong B. Y. U. Faculty augmented by Visiting Specialists. An added feature this year will be Leadership Week, which will be held in conjunction with Summer School. Write the Y Press for a Summer School Catalog BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO. UTAH Wlusic oe @ FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Lord Is My Shepherd S. S. A. Unto Thee I Lift Mine Eyes S. S. A. O Shepherd of Israel S. S. A. A. O Day of Rest and Gladness S. S. A. Dear Land of Home Father Most Merciful He That Keepeth Israel Hear My Prayer How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings I Will Thank Thee O Lord My Soul Is Athirst For God If You Love Me, Keep My Commandments If With All Your Hearts GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74
South Main Street _.. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH  
Flash dialogue can break the heaviness of long paragraphs, pages of solid print, but a continued use of it to point up unimportant phases of the story has a slowing effect. Dialogue and drama bring the long range picture of our story into focus, and should be saved for the three to five scenes—not more— that we shall use. Let us write with a feeling for structure and balance, getting who, what, where, and when in the first paragraph. Let us glean technique from every source and perfect the master stroke in writing, for the increasing demand for shorter stories is a challenge to the author. If our story has touched laughter to that ring of faces, released the tension of emotion, or added joy to living, we are vindicated. If it has added richness, delineated a new truth, or provoked thought, it has served. A worthy purpose. If it has gone deeper and touched the heart with understanding, tolerance, and love, or motivated the will to stronger and better acts, we have written - a good story. Books to Study CAMPBELL, WALTER S.: Writing Advice and Devices, Doubleday & Company, New York ($3.50). Hawkins, Wixtiarp: The Technique of Fiction, The Author and Journalist Publishing Company, Boulder, Colorado ($2.50). HocrerE, Peart: The Process of Creative Writing, Harper and Brothers, New York City, New York ($3.00). MonTGOMERY, VAIDA STEWART: First Aid for Fictionists, The Kaleidograph Press, 624
North Vernon Avenue, Dallas 8, Texas ($1.00). Parke, Hucu L.: The Basic Technique of Fiction, Hugh L. Parke Writer's Agency, 389

Your counsel is always uplifting and encouraging to those of us who are so far away from the headquarters of our wonderful organization. —Madge P. Fowler, Pasadena, California Our wonderful Magazine is an inspiration to me. The interesting articles are becoming more valuable to me each day to help solve the myriad problems involved in caring for my family. Now that the children are able to help me a little more, I get more time to read and enjoy the stories and beautiful lesson matemal. —Emeline Y. Watts, Logan, Utah Page 432 I wish to express my thoughts to our beloved President George Albert Smith and I so much enjoyed the "Congratulations on His Eighty-First. Birthday," (April 1951) which so well express the wishes of all of us. I love the social science and theology lessons. My husband is most interested in the lessons and stories. 'They are inspiring and strengthening. The editonal "Therewith to Be Content," (page 252) is so impressive that I have read it a number of times. It comforts me. —Maude D. Fisher, Rexburg, Idaho I like The Relief Society Magazine because it is part of our home. We go to it for comfort, counsel, and advice just as naturally as we would go to an easy chair to rest. It fills many -needs: spiritual food, clean, wholesome recreation, cooking helps, sewing helps, helps in entertaining, arranging flowers.
