[Let's Bake Bread by Josie B. Bay]

Let's Bake Bread Josie B. Bay Member, General Board of Relief Society IVING as we do in this generation of modern conveniences has a tendency to inhibit the perpetuation of some of our most cherished traditions. One of the most delightful traditions fast passing into oblivion is that of breadmaking. Our mothers and our grandmothers found joy and satisfaction in baking their own bread, and housewives of today may enjoy that same satisfaction. The increased cost of living will perhaps help us as homemakers to have a desire to return to the homemaking skills of which breadmaking is so much a part. It may be easier to run to the corner grocery store to purchase a loaf of bread, but our responsibility as homemakers is not so much to make life easier as to make life better. Try Making Bread! You will find that it can be fun and a highly profitable venture as well, profitable, not alone because it is more economical than buying bakery bread, but there is something especially gratifying to a homemaker when she finds that she has made her home happier by this product of her own workmanship.
Breadmaking is a most effective way to captivate your family and friends. If you have nothing more to offer to an unexpected guest than good homemade bread, served with butter and honey, together with a glass of cold milk, you may be sure your guest will feel highly complimented. 
Many parents of today, when remembering the joys of their childhood, wonder if life is as much fun for children as it used to be. A child's happiness is built of very simple things—cookies in the cooky jar, playing house under the quilting frames, making popcorn balls, or enjoying candy-pulls. There are some basic experiences which no child should miss. Among these, in my opinion, breadmaking reigns supreme. I sympathize with the child who has never had the experience of coming home from school to be greeted by the sweet, wholesome, appetizing smell of a batch of freshly baked bread. I speak from experience, because my mother was a veteran in the art of breadmaking. As long as I live I ~ shall never smell the aroma of freshly baked homemade bread without seeing my mother, with all of her children around her, standing by the wood-burning stove in that oilcloth covered kitchen, waiting for the old clock to tick away the last long five minutes before the bread was baked. How we bubbled with excitement as she removed those well-shaped, evenly browned, crusty loaves of yeast bread from the oven. I remember especially the smile of satisfaction on her face as she took one of the loaves from the pan, broke it into pieces, spread each piece generously with home-churned butter and gave one to each of us. Real Homemade Bread. How quickly a loaf would disappear! LET'S BAKE BREAD 399
Photograph by Hal Rumel
HOMEMADE BREAD WILL PLEASE YOUR FAMILY
Josie B. Bay Cuts Her Freshly Baked Bread.
This experience is one that every child and grown-up alike should have the privilege of enjoying. It is one of those homey projects in which every single member of the family will be interested, one that will not easily be forgotten.
Some folks say it is old-fashioned to bake bread. Well—if it is old-fashioned to serve your family food that is nourishing and economical, food with that old country flavor that you will not find elsewhere—if it is old-fashioned to do the little things that will help your children to remember what belongs to their childhood as we remember what belongs to ours—if it is old-fashioned to enjoy the satisfaction that this homey task will bring to a homemaker and the delight it will bring when shared with friends— then, for goodness sake, enjoy being old-fashioned and let's bake bread. The recipes which follow were provided by William T.
Lawrence of the mills and elevators department of the Church Welfare Plan.