Lucy Doney Parkinson By Ann Parkinson 'Nibley ISTER LUCY DOONEY Sister Parkinson's well rounded S PARKINSON, widow of life was filled with activities and acPresident George C. Parkinson, complishments in Church work and died at her home in the Hillcrest social service. At the age of twenty Lucy Donry ParKINSON Apartments, Salt Lake City, on she was chosen President of the May 2d, 1931. Born on March 28th, Young Ladies Mutual Improvement 1861, at Franklin, Idaho, she had Association of the Franklin Ward, just passed her 70th birthday. Which position she held until made 384 President a short time later of the Primary Associations of the Oneida Stake, following which she served for twelve years in the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society of the same Stake. The parents of Sister Parkinson were John and Ann Temperance Doney, who joined the Church at Devenport, Devonshire, England and in 1856, crossed the ocean to America in the sailing ship "Samuel Curling" enroute to Salt Lake Valley. Upon their arrival at lowa City in the States the Doneys were selected among others to cross the plains in the first handcart company of pioneers, arriving in Salt Lake Valley on September 26th, 1856. The hardships and sufferings of this first handcart company are a matter of church history. The journey was commenced with 266 souls, seven of whom died and were buried on the plains. Except in cases of severe illness, men, women and children walked the entire distance of 1300 miles and pulled their rudely constructed handcarts containing their entire earthly possessions. Six weeks after commencing the trip Sister Doney gave birth to a daughter, Mrs. Robert G. Lowe of Franklin, Idaho, who is living today, and who has the distinction of being the only child born in this company. During the voyage across the ocean Sister Doney's - baby daughter Ann Temperance was stricken with whooping cough and after a day and night on the train out of Boston, the baby died. The train halted long enough at Toledo, Ohio, for her to be buried. Upon the day of Sister Lowe's birth, her Mother walked and took her turn in pulling the handcart, having walked twenty miles on the day of her baby's birth. For ten days thereafter the baby and Mother were RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE permitted to ride in one of the two covered wagons in the party, which was loaded with food and supplies, and thereafter for about a week she rode in a handcart pulled by her husband, after which she walked the remaining distance to Salt Lake Valley. Immediately before and after her baby's birth the Mother waded numerous streams and rivers and continued the march from day to day without opportunity even to dry her clothing until camp was made at night. She would carry her baby in her apron to protect it from becoming wet in crossing streams and from being scratched by brush and brambles. Upon their arrival in Utah the Doneys first made their home at Payson, where they resided until the spring of 1860, at which time they joined a party of Saints in the colonization of what is now North Cache Valley in Idaho. On April 13th, 1860, with twelve other families they established camp on the site of the present city of Franklin, Idaho, which was the first white settlement in the State, and in recognition of which the Idaho State Legislature later designated June 15th of each year as "Idaho Day," a State holiday. It was here among these primitive and pioneer conditions that Sister Lucy was born within the walls of the rudely constructed Fort in which the colony lived until the spring of 1864, and it was here that her days of girlhood and young womanhood were spent. One of the first structures erected within the Fort was a school house and meeting house, constructed of logs, and which was the first school house, and in it was held the first school, in the State of Idaho. Sister Parkinson first attended school there, and in later years, after having completed LUCY DONEY PARKINSON a course at the newly established Brigham Young College at Logan, she taught school in the old log school house at Franklin. On April 14th, 1881, Sister Lucy married her girlhood sweetheart, George C. Parkinson, a son of one of the original thirteen families of Franklin. The marriage ceremony was performed at the Endowment House in Salt Lake City by Elder Daniel H. Wells, and on the same day Brother Parkinson departed for a mission to the Southern States and to England. During his absence his wife continued her school teaching at Logan. Upon his return the young couple established their home at Franklin where they remained until 1894, at which time they removed to Preston, Idaho. Prior to this time, in April, 1884, Brother Parkinson was chosen as Counselor to the President of the Oneida Stake, and on August 27th, 1887, was appointed President of the same Stake which position he held for the following twenty-five years. At Preston, President and Sister Parkinson erected one of the most beautiful homes in the State, where they reared their family of eight. All who visited this home know the sweet and gentle spirit of family love, devotion, and companionship which prevailed in it and know that the spirit of the Gospel was exemplified in their daily family life as in few other homes. Sister Parkinson was a woman of rare charm, culture and refinement, a devoted wife and mother as well as a wise and capable adviser and counselor to her husband. As a homemaker she set an enviable example to be followed by all the community about her. Until the family removed to Salt Lake City in 1912 the Parkinson home at Preston was headquarters for all the General Authorities of 385 the Church as well as the officials of the auxiliary organizations of the Church on their visits to the Idaho stake. The welcome and generous hospitality thus provided by Brother and Sister Parkinson during this period, requiring the almost continuous keeping of "open house" for large groups of Church workers and officials, was a service of love and devotion to their religion which will ever be remembered by those whose church activities called them to this North country. It was during this time that Sister Parkinson served twelve years in the Presidency of the Oneida Stake Relief Society. The early years of this period were before the advent of the automobile, when frequently it required a week or more to make a return trip to an outlying Ward or Branch by horse and buggy. Sister Parkinson and her associates in the Presidency would make these trips in good and bad weather and at times over almost impassable roads. No conference or church meeting which they were to attend was ever postponed on account of their failure to make the trip, regardless of the difficulties encountered, although on one occasion: after a particularly difficult trip in bad weather their horse died in the harness within one mile of the meeting house. They were compelled to walk into the village in order not to miss the meeting. They did their own driving, frequently having to camp in the open euroute, on which occasions they were compelled to feed and attend to their horse or horses and harness and unharness them. It was also during this period that many of the Stakes and Wards sent representatives to Salt Lake City to pursue a course of study in nursing and obstetrics under Doctor Margaret C. Roberts. Sister Parkinson 386 availed herself of this opportunity and attended these classes for a year. Upon returning to her home, in addition to her other church duties, she was called upon constantly for advice and in the giving of her personal services in this field of endeavor to the needy members of her Stake. In September, 1912, President and Sister Parkinson resigned from their Stake duties and with their family moved to Salt Lake City. Here President Parkinson passed away on July 6th, 1920. Sister Parkinson maintained the family home in Salt Lake City until her death, but the impaired condition of her health did not permit the same active participation in Church activities as during the former years in Idaho. She was able, however, to contribute largely of her time and means in a work which she greatly loved and which really was nearest her heart, 鍟he redemption of her sacred dead. To the limit of her strength she spent her time in the Temple and employed others to assist her. It was her accomplished wish to build up a family fund so that this work might go on after her death. During her later years she suffered from a severe heart affliction, but her courage, fortitude and patience and her cheerfulness and unquestioning faith remained with her to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the end. Her noble, gentle and unselfish character shone ont brightly through all her intense suffering. Never was she heard to utter a word of complaint or despondency during her long illness. Her large family, whose homes and temporary interests were scattered in remote parts of the country, could be found frequently together at her bedside. Her last admonition to her children gathered about her deathbed was for them to faithfully live and observe the principles of the Gospel and to find joy in well doing. Sister Parkinson's children, all of whom survive her, are: George D. Parkinson, Salt Lake City; Mrs. Preston Nibley, Santa Monica, California; Major J. Leo Parkinson,. S. Army, Manila, Philippine Islands; Mrs. Richard W. Young, Jr., Berkeley, California; Major Parley D. Parkinson, U. S. Army, Salt Lake City; Mrs. W. Creed. Haymond, Salt Lake City; Mrs. O. Walter Larson, Los Angeles, California, and Mrs. Walter H. Rolapp, Los Angeles, California. At her funeral, held at the 18th Ward Chapel in Salt Lake City, President C. W. Nibley said in the course of his remarks, "I know of no one in all my acquaintance who can measure un so fully to a perfect life, in my Opinion, as this, our beloved Sister."
