Covered Wagons By Elsie E. Barrett Oh, those sturdy Covered Wagons! Could they speak, what tales they'd tell Of the struggles, pain and hardships Early Pioneers befell. They would tell of brave souls trudging, Pushing handcarts all day long, Of the feet so worn and blistered Though each heart was true and strong. They would tell of strength, through knowledge, Of the Gospel Plan restored, As foretold by ancient Prophets Killed by torture, hunger, sword. Tell how these true souls they carried, Could not doubt, though hard the way; Had they not the proof—translated, And the Holy Ghost each day? Tell of faith and love and courage, Bearing all to reach their goal; Over trackless wastes, undaunted; Trust and prayer in every soul. Marking roads to future greatness Where in freedom they could grow To a Commonwealth exalted Where true precepts they could show. They would tell in trembling voices, How, at times, Fate seemed unkind; Tell of tears and prayers and heartaches As they left new graves behind. Tell of joyful campfire singing Songs of Praise and "All Is Well." Oh, those sturdy Covered Wagons! Could they speak, What Tales They'd Tell, { f BS. RAT AD 4 % E = We | $ a4 a ie e.: srw Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital By Emily M. Carlisle HE Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital opened May 15th, a $7,500 new addition. Dr. Beatty, Utah State Commissioner Of Health, expressed his approval of the excellence of the institution, which he rated as fully equipped and up to date in every particular, in fact a model maternit; hospital. He said, 'Women who have the privilege of care in this hospital may consider 'themselves most fortunate. The record of one thousand cases without a death speaks for itself, when it is considered that the average death of mothers in child-birth in the United States is seven per thousand. There is great need in Utah for more maternity hospitals of the same character." Modern conveniences for a maternity hospital that were added at the recent addition are, a new delivery room, a new nursery, an isolation room and new wards. The delivery room and nursery have a southern exposure, and in connection with the service rooms and sterilization room are enclosed away from the rest of the hospital. Every protective measure has been taken to insure a safe birth for infants and safe child-bearing for mothers. Beauty as well as utility have been considered. The interior walls are painted sunny colors with linoleum and tiling all matching. The Hospital on 56th South and 4th East, has a cool, quiet restful location. The Relief Society is looking into the future to make it more beautiful. With the help of the stake presidency and the wards. One-hundred sixty-five trees and 416 shrubs were planted. Among them were sixty-five Norway Maple trees.. Ee hospital, which was opened in October, 1924, owes much of its success to the fine vision, the executive ability, and the untiring efforts of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society Presidency, Mrs. Amanda Bagley, Mrs. Rena Wheeler and Mrs. Nellie Cornwall, with their board. It is rare indeed that the power to see what is needed, and the ability to materialize this into the actual elements of service, find so splendid an expression. Their souls were challenged by the call of mothers for this service in their own community. How freely and unstintedly they gave of their time and labor is told in the story of their marvelous achievements. Fortunately too, has it been that the 'succeeding officers, President Vera Wahlquist, with her officers and board members, and the present officers, Mrs. Emily M. Carlisle, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mrs. Sarah Ross and Mrs. Lona Heiner, have carried on the work so splendidly. Nor could this fine work be consummated without the support and hearty cooperation of the Stake Presidents, Uriah G. Miller and Henry D. Moyle. At present Mrs. Ruby Richards Hansen is Superintendent. She isa graduate nurse and well qualified for the position. Two graduate nurses and other efficient help are employed. Each patient has her own doctor. Mrs. Lona L. Heiner second counselor in the Relief Society assists in the purchasing and keeping the books, the ward Relief Societies, the stake presidency with Henry D. Moyle as president and members of the stake are interested in making the hospital a success. Since its opening there have been 1378 babies born in the hospital. Such good care has been taken of them that the death rate has been very low.
