A Fine Stroke of Art By Minnie I. Hodapp S far back as the day when the poor, blind boy of Hussaker's outraged the traffic law by shoving old man Lazurlee off the river bridge the Lazurlees had been a community problem in Winopau. *Tis true that the "Jolly Stitchers" and "The Friendship League" helped them from time to time in their dire need; but in spite of the succor of these organizations, the name Lazurlee still remained a synonym for poverty, dirt, and rags. "That woman doesn't know how to manage and won't learn," was the usual comment given behind the back of the faded little woman who, like a fluttering, frightened bird, mothered the five happy-go-lucky Lazurlees. "Not a lick of pride in the whole worthless gang," was a common observation. "Half-wits, the whole outfit from Laz down to Rue," screamed Sue Simons in her garrulous way. "You ought to see Laz beat his pony over the head." In spite of these unpleasant generalizations concerning her nearest neighbor, Anne Robins resolved to be governed by her admirations rather than her disgusts, she being one of those rare souls who improve themselves today and their friends tomorrow. To her mind, the Lazurlees were outstanding as docile, non-protesting creatures of circumstance. They tolerated screens hanging half-off their hinges, doors with missing knobs, broken windows stuffed with dresses and old shirts. They permitted—aye—encouraged the muddy foot prints of puppies over their bare floors. Little pigs ran loose in their front dooryard, rooting up the garden. Their back yard, up to the very door-step was strewn with the legs of dead sheep and calves. The more Anne witnessed the filth and carelessness of her slattern neighbors, the more vigilantly did she stress tidiness on her own premises. This was apparent to the most casual observer, and the two homes side by side looked like a study in contrast. "Mamma, why can't I go over and play with little Lloyd?" asked four year old Dee. "Because Dee, we're too busy weeding our own garden," responded prudent Anne. "But Spotty keeps running over to their place," he answered in a pout. "Go and bring Spotty. We must train him to stay at home." As 'Anne bent over her pansy bed under the front windows, she was startled by a loud noise against the pane. She drew herself erect and met Dee's laughing eyes. "Tt's only little Lloyd shootin' at our window," explained Dee. "But suppose he'd have broken the pane?" "Why then, Mamma, we'd stuff up the hole with my little shirt, wouldn't we?" "Where's Spotty?' exclaimed Anne changing the subject abruptly. "T'll go and fetch him," said Dee, and he presently vanished through the hedge that divided the two homes. Half an hour later, in the gathering dusk, Dee came home riving 388 the air with his screams. He had a blackened eye, a bloody nose, and a cut lip to show for his visit. "Lloyd went and knocked me down," he cried. "Well, I told you to hurry home," responded his mother. "But you know I went to' fetch Spotty." "Tomorrow we shall tie Sse said his mother firmly. Dee closed his eyes sadly that night, mentally picturing a forlorn little doggie tied to the maple tree in the front yard. As soon as Dee was sound asleep, his mother slipped over to Mrs. Lazurlee. She meant to learn the details of Dee's bumps and bruises and nip this neighborly naughtiness in the bud. A. Faded little woman in a faded pink house-dress opened the door with, "Sakes alive, Mrs. Robins. I didn't expect seein' you here this time a night." "I don't get over very often," responded Anne quietly. "Why, land no, Mrs. Robins. This is only the second time you've entered my door, and it's four years come next May since we moved here." "Ts that right?" asked Anne. Her eyes took in the gloomy corners of the room, for the chimney of the kerosene lamp on the table was sooty. Anne tried not to seem to notice that the cane-bottom had _ been pushed out of the chair Mrs. Lazurlee offered her. Hardly had Anne seated herself when she heard groans and sobs issuing from the couch near the window. "Anybody sick, Mrs. Lazurlee?" "Not exactly,"' drawled the mother, "Lloyd was runnin' 'round the hay-stack one direction while your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE boy was runnin' 'round t'other. The two collided and knocked heads. It loosened three or four of Lloyd's teeth was all." Anne stepped over to the couch and very gently examined Lloyd's mouth. "Dee's head is awfully hard," said Lloyd. "Tt's a shame you have to suffer for it," said Anne sympathetically. Then turning to his mother, "Shall I call a dentist?" "No need of that," spoke up Mrs. Lazurlee. '"He'll be all right in a day or two. Besides, if it's anyone's turn to see a dentist in this family it ought to be myself. It's purty nigh three years since I had all my teeth pulled out." Anne took in Mrs. Lazurlee's mouth condition almost at a glance. It seemed really pitiful. "You've waited a long-time, Mrs. Lazurlee." "T'll say 'so," she sing-songed. "T've come nigh to bruisin' my patience. The trouble is, I can't rake up enough coin to get a set of teeth." "There's a free dental clinic," suggested 'Anne. "Free!" ejaculated Mrs, Lazurlee. "Ves, Mrs. Lazurlee, without charge. May I call up Dr. Daynes and make the arrangement?" "Sakes alive, be ye goin' to see about me gettin' false teeth, and fer nothin'?" "I'm sure it can be: arranged, Mrs. Lazurlee," explained Anne quietly. "OQ Honey, now yer just tellin' me things,' beamed Mrs. Lazurlee. "May I make arrangements with Dr. Daynes?" asked Anne. "Yes, Honey, go ahead, Honey." Lloyd stopped groaning and sat up in bed. A FINE STROKE OF ART "What you dancin' around so for, Ma, and laughin' and clappin' your hands?" "Sakes alive, Lloyd, I'm goin' ter have new teeth." II THE new and uncommonly beautiful smile worn by Mrs. Lazurlee amply repaid the dental clinic for their free and generous service. "Her mouth is so full of teeth she can hardly talk," said Dee. "But, Mamma, why does she squint her eyes so funny?" "She needs glasses, Dee, and soon she'll have them," explained his Mamma. "Dr. Neff is working on her case right now." "And as soon as she gets glasses, Mamma, what then?" "Why, then she's goin' to do plain sewin' for folks that need her. She's real handy. [And that reminds me, Dee, you may take these flour-sacks over for her to hem. Tell her I want to 'be the first on her sewing list." "Tt's a big load of sewin' I'm bringin' you," exclaimed little Dee as he entered the Lazurlee door. In the middle of the room he paused dead-still to gaze and wonder. Two men were carrying off the sewing machine right in front of Mrs. Lazurlee's eyes. "Tl sic Spotty onto them, Mrs. Lazurlee, if you'll let me. Why are they taking away your sewing machine? Now you can't hem towels for my Mamma." But before the men had loaded the machine into the truck, Mrs. Robins was at the gate making gentle entreaty for the little woman in the faded pink dress. "If it's only seven dollars she lacks on the machine I believe I can take care of that," said Anne. "You had better leave the machine, gentlemen; I'll go and write a check 389 for that amount." Quiet Mrs. Robins soon returned with a little pink slip that meant so much to Mrs. Lazurlee. "How can I ever repay you, Honey? Oh, I wish I could this very day, this very minute." "Well, perhaps you can." Mrs. Lazurlee's face brightened. "What you mean to say, Honey." "Would you be willing to part with some of the worn-out farm machinery back of your house?" "You mean the broken-down mower and that rusty plough?" "Yes, and those wagon wheels and the dilapidated cook-stove," finished Anne. "You kin have 'em and welcome." "T'd also like those pans and kettles and grates and pails and lids and stove 'pipes gathered finto a heap. May I?" "Welcome! And there's an old copper boiler, burnt out at the bottom and smashed in at the sides. You can have that into the bargain." "Very well," responded Anne. "Can you get all these smaller things gathered together by three o'clock?" "We'll do our darndest," said the little mother jenthusiastically. Such raking, 'such [picking mp, such gathering of bones and rags and bottles and tins as went on in that yard during the forenoon? Every scrap of rubbish was piled onto an old bed spring, according to Mrs. Robin's judicious orders. Promptly at three p. M. The junkman came all smiles. What precious haul it was for him! He not -only cleared the scrap-heap, but he supplied rubbish-cans for future needs—wise and enterprising junkman. One wonders if Anne Robins had not dropped him a hint in her ever-so-tactful manner. As the junk-man drove off, the 390 youngest of the Lazurlees was heard to exclaim, "Gee! Don't our back yard look lonesome?" "Ts that all the pay you want, Honey?" asked gleeful Mrs. Lazurlee. "Only one thing more," replied Anne. "I hate to be imposing, but would Laz be good enough to paint the roof of my garage?" "Oh, boy! Bet your sweet life I will," replied Laz, with alacrity of heart as well as lips. Early next morning Laz was seen on top of the Robins' garage eagerly engaged in his new task. The paint brush in his hand was the magic wand that stirred the boy's latent talent of handicraft. Amateur though he was, Laz took a pride in his work; and during that forenoon, a budding young artisan was born, as aspirations are born into this hustling, busy world of ours. "T only wish that job could last, said he as he added the finishing touches to the roof at mid-afternoon. "Why not apply to Dr. Dewy across the river?' suggested Anne. "T've heard him say that his entire garage needs going over. You might go and ask him about it. Tell him you've had experience on one roof at least." So Laz hastened off toward the Dewy place. Nearing the river he was startled 'by a shrill shriek that came from amid the wild-roses and 3? Willows. Laz bounded into the inclosure. "Catch me, oh catch me," screamed a pleading voice. On the middle of a narrow plank that bridged the stream at its deepest, stood an old, old lady frantic with fear. | Laz ran toward the frail little lady, picked her up in his arms, and carried her trembling body safeRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ly to the other side of the river. "You've saved my life," repeated she. "Right in the middle of the plank I took a dizzy spell. Another moment and I should have lost my balance." "T'm glad I happened along before you tumbled in," said Laz laughingly. "You've saved my life, repeated wee Grandma Willis in all seriousness, placing her thin, wrinkled hand in Laz's big brown one. "Now name your reward." "Reward, you say?" and Laz's cheeks reddened more with pleasurable excitement. He did not move a finger, but sat open-mouthed, open-eyed, staring at the calmly flowing waters. When at length he made as if to speak, words failed him. "Tell me what you'd like better than anything in the world," entreated the wee Grandmother. "Waal," said Laz in drawling phrase, "I could tell you this very minute, but I can't calculate it out. I'm kinda slow on figures and I can't say." Grandma Willis began to look alarmed. "Calculate what?' asked she. This strangely untalkative youth was a puzzle to her. "Wall," drawled Laz, "will you furnish me enough paint to cover the outside of our house? That's the biggest reward I can name." "Tt's granted," said wee Grandma Willis in relieved and happy tone. "Come, take me to your home, let me have a good look at the house and I'll calculate the cost." Anxious to fulfill her agreement to the letter, Grandma Willis called Anne Robins to her aid. Anne was quite experienced and gave exact caluculation for the amount of paint needed for walls, cornice, and roof. "I'm glad their foundation is so A FINE STROKE OF ART fine and strong," observed Grandma Willis. "It won't seem like wasting money to improve such a_ place. Come, Anne, will you 'phone to the paint company? I should like to see this boy Laz start on his project this very week." With her usual dispatch Anne attended promptly to the request of Grandma Willis. Laz decided upon gray with white borders, 'Just like your house, Mrs. Robins," said the boy. Within a week Anne heard the neighbors commenting on "'that enterprising Lazurlee lad undertaking to paint his mother's house." By the end of the week their admiration had increased tenfold, for the finished product quite outran their expectations. ' a "Mamma, their house looks exactly like ours," remarked little Dee. When the outside of the house was finished, Laz with a remnant of white paint, began on the shelves in the kitchen. When Grandma Willis heard of his zeal, she generously supplied enough paint to do the entire kitchen and enough varnish for the chairs. "Gee, it smells clean over to Lazurlee's," said' Dee after one of his excursions over to "fetch" Spotty. "And they won't let any little dog in their house, not even Spotty, to mark up the floors. And their windows—not a fly-speck on 'em now. Laz won't stand fer it. I heard him tellin' Lloyd to keep his sticky hand off the window or it might get slapped. And I heard a secret too, from Rue," jfinished Dee in triumph. I "Ts that so? Whoever told Rue a secret?" whispered his Mamma. "Wee Grandma Willis," whispered Dee into his mother's ear. "Well then it must be a first-rate secret if Grandma Willis told it." 391 "Fire! Fire!" screamed a boy in the' streets. Anne looked out of the window. The Lazurlee kitchen roof in flames. "Mercy on us," screamed Anne Robins bounding into the street. "T've already 'phoned for the fire department," said Sue Simons. Laz, on the roof, was working like a hero, his distress was as plain as circus-print. Men and women waited impatiently for the fire department. A thrill of joy went through the throng as it neared. A few minutes of skillful work with the great hose until the flames were extinguished and the excitement 'subsided. The slowly-dispersing crowd left Grandma Willis standing alone on the sidewalk gazing upward at Laz on the roof. Anne ran to her with outstretched arms. The frail little body was trembling from head to foot. "Oh, Anne, I'm glad—so glad that house didn't go up in flames. It's going to be my home in a few weeks." "Your home!" said Anne in mild surprise. "I can't quite understand. "T mean I'm tired boarding at the hotel, and I intend changing my residence into a family of folk who need me." "But Grandma, this move is quite unexpected in you. Do you believe you can learn to tolerate the many irregularities of a family like the Lazurlees?" "Irregularities!? M hungry for 'em! Sick of cut-and-dried routine; tired to death of thus-and-so; cravin' change and chaos," and _ she laughed the blithe, silver laughter of. A girl. "And you've really made up your mind?" "Yes, I've made up my mind. My fifty dollars per month may as well 392 go to the ultra-needy as to the wealthy. Besides—in those cheery, patient little Lazurlee kiddies I may find support—something to love, to lean upon, to clasp affection's tendrils 'round!" That afternoon Sue Simons came with "news" to Anne Robins. "Do you know the latest, Anne?" "About what?" asked prudent Anne. "Grandma Willis. That loftythinking old soul has made up her mind to move in with that Lazurlee tribe," and she shrugged her shoulders in contempt. "A jewel of a woman," prudent Anne. "A jewel out of her proper setting when she'll link up with that outfit." Anne mused thoughtfully 'ere she replied: "Grandma Willis is, as you say, a rare soul. She's developed a lot of tolerance with the years. Her knowledge of human nature, her sympathy, her love of art— these things will help out." "But, Anne, Anne," shrieked Sue. "Them Lazurlees—a hiss and a byword! You know as well as I do. A hiss and a by-word!" and Sue fairly writhed in disgust. "May I remind you," ever so gently rejoined Anne in her softest whisper, "of One who said, 'The whole need not a physician but they that are sick'." A faint tap at the door. A moment more and wee Grandma observed Willis stood before them. A note~ of triumph was in her tone as she said, "Well, Anne, I've moved. We're neighbors now, for good." Sue Simons gaspel in astonishment, but said not a word. "And now, Anne, dear," continued Grandma, "Won't you come over and help me hang my pictures?"; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "May I come, too?" asked Sue Simons meekly. 'With the aid of these two willing women, Grandma's fine art-treasures were hung to advantage. "The Dance of the Nymphs" over the mantle, "The Children of the Shell" near the window, and the lovely "Sistine Madonna" over the bed. Grandma reserved her cherished "Apple Blossoms" for her dresser. Grain fields and Mt. Timpanogos by Utah artists were placed in the dining room. "And what about this fine picture by Hoffman?" asked Sue innocently. "Where does it go?" "Why, that one is for Laz's room," directed Grandma. 'He'll take more joy in it than all of us put together." At this point Anne es herself and hurried home. She soon returned rosy and breathless, bearing a beautiful fern for Grandma's room. Its delicate presence brought comfort and delight. Sue Simons, not to be outdone by Anne, ran home and returned drawing a little express wagon filled with red-blooming geraniums for Grandma's front window. The entire neighborhood caught the spirit of these good women, and many a pleasant engagement with Grandma Willis was arranged. "You simply must let me lend you my wicker-rocker," said Mrs. Tarbell. "And please, oh, please let me hang my large mirror in your room for this winter," begged Jane Henri. Mrs. Pearson, the blind weaver, sent a gift of small rugs to protect Grandma Willis' finer rug. But the biggest surprise of all was when Mr. Stowe installed electric lights in the Lazurlee home and had the house insured against fire. A FINE STROKE OF ART "You're worth it a thousand times over, Grandma Willis," said Mr. Stowe. "Besides, it's only a slight return for all the kindness you've heaped upon me. I've been awaiting my opportunity, but as long as you remained in the hotel your wants seemed supplied." "?*Tis sweet to be remembered," beamed Grandma cordially. To the little Lazurlees clustering near, Mr. Stowe said, "You'd better be good kiddies to wee Grandma Willis. She deserves to have her pathway bloom with roses." "That's what I tell 'em,"' spoke up their mother. (She was alert to Grandma's every wish.) How systematically she went over her entire house, rubbing it down and polishing it up, until it became veritably a house of smiles. Even the most hurried passer-by seemed to admire the geraniums through the bright windows. To the little Lazurlees the routine of life became an attractive allabsorbing lesson. They took pains to brush their teeth, clean their finger nails, polish their shoes. Even their hair, through unremitting care, took on a silken luster pleasing to the touch. They closed doors without banging, and softened their voices into almost musical tones. Good Fortune smiled upon Laz in the shape of an apprentice job with the Jamison Paper Company. In addition to being taught and trained in handicraft he was promised a small, steadily-rising wage. "He's a different boy," said Sue Simons. "More considerate and kind." 393 "T believe he's been reading and thinking along good lines," observed Anne Robins. "Likely so,' answered Sue. "I noticed after Grandma Willis got through readin' that book on kindness to animals he quit beatin' his horse over the head." 'Anne laughed softly to herself as she pondered on Sue's various sympathetic reactions. "IT wonder what she'll find out next?" quoth Anne to herself. And sure enough within a brief interval Sue came again. This time it was her choicest morsel, and she related it with an unusual touch of insight. "Heard the latest, Anne? It's about one of your own cherished little Lazurlees, and I've got it straight. Last Sunday, Sadie Snow, in speaking to her Sunday School class, put this question: 'How many of you children want to go to heaven?' Every one but Rue and Lloyd held up their hands." "Don't you want to go to heaven?' asked Miss Snow." "Lloyd spoke up, 'No, Miss Snow, we don't want to go to heaven 'cause Grandma Willis has come to live with us; and she's hung up pictures and put down rugs and fixed curtains and put flowers in the window. Laz has a job and Mamma is writin' down the school census. And Grandma Willis is tellin' us stories each night in her warm, snug room. No, Miss Snow, we don't want to go to heaven, not for a long, long d99 time'. Father teach me to stand alone, Not in the strength of futile pride But with a confidence serene Thy unseen hand will be my guide.
