Champions By Ian Dawn ed him when he came to us first at the Home. I often wondered how such a frail little atom could live. He was ever in the black books with the matron and the gardener, not that he was all bad but being more or less handicapped by illness he seemed to cherish a grudge against the world in general. Even on what we termed his good days he usually started in to behave badly. During playtime in the garden he would forage for all kinds of fruit although he knew that was forbidden. Like a squirrel he found a quiet corner and had a feast. What he could not eat made fine ammunition to be fired at other patients. ITTLE Bag-of-Bones we callComplaints would follow and then little Ishmael was in trouble again. On these occasions he could contrive _to look very wistful and his cough would get very bad, so instead of punishment he would be put to bed and treated like a wounded hero. He could never tell us anything about his home life. He would reiterate, Father just went away. Mother is not dead, she needed a rest so the angels took her; baby brother is in another home." Truly "the thoughts of a child are long, long thoughts." His great desire was to get into the same home as his little brother. Many a time after a long silence he would say, "I know that Jesus died for me." Then he would look very CHAMPIONS perplexed and say, "Don't you think the angels are taking a long time to bring mother back?" As time went on I began to dread what was coming when the little mouth would shut tight, the fair hair would be all rumpled, and the bonnie blue eyes took on a troubled far away look. After much silent prayer to our Father I found courage one day to tell him that mother could not come to earth again, they would be taken to her. He looked very thoughtful at that but not a word did he say. Before leaving us to go to a home for older boys we had many long conversations. We talked of the Plan of Salvation as taught to Mormon children, of the Gold Plates and a strong young Prophet hero who died for the truth, of Brigham Young and his pioneers who blazed a trail across what was No Man's Land at that time, of the beautiful Temples where work is done to prepare for the coming of this same Jesus. Boylike he would exclaim, "What champions they were." By the restful look that crept into his earnest eyes and the calm that entered my own heart I knew that all was well with the lad. Years passed, then came the Great War. At the Mission, as elsewhere, our Relief Societies had much work for the Red Cross. In France, in Palestine, in North Russia, and on the wild North Sea were our dear ones. Heavy hearts could not be 409 allowed to hinder us, a never ending supply of hospital garments and bandages had to be prepared. After meeting it was our custom to stand in the outer hall and discuss our plans and fears for our absent ones before going out into the darkened gloomy streets. Then it was that I became aware of a little soldier boy passing and repassing the gate. On inquiry I learned to my surprise and joy that he was my little Ishmael straight as an arrow. The "Glengarry cap" set jauntily on his fair head told me that he belonged to a Scottish regiment. One of the little, but good "Bantams."'* My joy was short-lived. He had come to say good-bye. He was enroute to I'rance. Owing to an accident in the orphan's home the little brother was dead. He uttered no murmur nor regret. His wistful far away smile told me he knew all was well. "See you first leave if all's well," jhe said: On second thought he bravely added. "Should I never see you again you know all's well just the same." In Flanders among the poppies rests a broken body. Beyond the river in the Summer Land of Love the angels with mother and the little one rejoiced together to welcome home another Champion. *The "Batams" were a Battalion of the Royal Scots composed of very small men. The Higher qe higher patriotism is not selfish or vain or opinionated or combative. Those traits belong to that wall of prejudice and self-seeking, personal and national, which is so often painted to look like patriotism. The higher patriotism sees in one's nation a moral personality with Patriotism a conscience as well as an intelligence and with a high purpose as well as with material interests. The higher patriotism asks not alone for opportunity to thrive and to gain, but for opportunity to inspire, to succor and to serve. —Nicholas Murray Butler. Crude were the looms They plied, With weary hands; Rough-hewn the plough That bit the arid lands. But as they toiled With hope beyond the day, There loomed in vision, Endlessly away, A fair and teeming country-side— Vast in its reach, subdued And glorified! —Louts W. Larsen.
