Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon EADERSHIP may be on a stage that is little or large, in the spotlight or in the wings but it is something to be more than a follower. Age of the Pullitzer prizes awarded annually by the Trustees of Columbia University from the foundation of the late Joseph Pullitzer were won by women. | To Margaret Ayer Barnes for the best American novel: Years of Grace was awarded $1,000, and Susan Gaspell was awarded $1,000. For the best American play: Allison's House. Bryn Mawr College has awarded its "eminent achievement" prize of $5,000 to Jane Addams, founder of Hull House and a great welfare worker. M ADAM OLINIA ROISETTI A AGREETI of Italy was the only woman delegate to the sixth congress of the International Chamber of Congress. Yes never too late to learn is proven by the new school for elderly women opened recently in San Francisco. The purpose of the school is to teach women past middle age how to care for themselves and help them get positions. De: women of the Civic League of Pasadena, after vainly protesting against the tearing down of the cabin in Carmelita Park in which a part of California's most romantic novel, Ramona, was written, by Helen Hunt Jackson, are now asking for the reconstruction of the cabin on the old site and begging the city fathers that no other landmarks be destroyed without public notice. It is to be hoped the League will be successful. Too many landmarks of historic value have been destroyed, not all in California either. HILE Mrs. Thomas A. Edison makes the claim that the next twenty years will bring women back in the home, the National President of Federation of Women's Clubs asserts that women are ready to take their places side by side with men in all fields. The fact that the Institute of Crafts and Industry of 'Waterbury after many years of service has decided to close its doors because of lack of interest, would bear out the latter statement. The modern girl does not care to knit or sew. ACATION time is now on and it might be well to consider the fact that a vacation is an investment according to the use one makes of it. It pays no dividend unless it gives rest and fits one with fresh viewpoint and zest for the year to come. -HE death of Mrs. Whitelaw Reid at Rosemary on _ the Riveria, the home of her daughter Lady Ward, removes from American social and political circles a truly great woman. Though an accomplished social leader Mrs. Reid gave liberally of her time and means for the advancement and betterment of mankind. She founded schools, and homes, and hospitals, in New York, California, London and Paris, was active in Red Cross work and encouraged art and education especially for women. HAPPENINGS Just before she sailed for Europe to spend her 73rd spring abroad, she turned over her great Ophir Hall at Purchase, N. Y., to the King of Siam, America's most distinguished guest. A GOOD SALAD FOR WOMEN GENEROUS number of kind words Any amount of good cheer, 407 Equal quanities of gentleness and courage. Combined with patience and sincerity, Seasoned with a dash of fun. Measure all with the "Golden Rule" and mix well with two handfuls of warm handclasps. Garnish with smiles and serve with a dressing of courtesy.
