GUIDE LESSONS. — 47 not deny that truth and be found blameless before high heaven. As the Christians accept the Old and New Testaments as their sole revelation, authority and guide to belief and creed, it should be possible for them to successfully explain the passages from the Bible quoted in the "Mormon" Compendium, on pages 184 to 193; for instance: Genesis: 1:25-27, "man created in the image of God;" 3:9-10, "Adam heard the voice of the Lord;" 4:6, "the Lord said unto Cain." 14; 5:1-2, "Lord created man, male and female, in his own likeness;" 13:21, "God talked with Noah." Also 7:1-4; 9:8; 11:5, "the Lord came down to see the city and the tower;" 12:7, "the Lord appeared to Abraham." 17:22; 18, "the Lord ate and talked with Abraham;" 28: 13, "the Lord stood above the ladder -Jacob saw;" 32:30, "Jacob saw God face to face." 35:13. Exodus: 3:6, "Moses was afraid to look on God;" 31:18, "the tables of testimony, written with the finger of God;" 33:11, "the Lord talked with Moses as one man speaks with a friend a 23, "thou shalt see my back parts, but not my face." Numbers: 12:8, "with him will I speak, mouth to mouth." Zechariah: 14:4, "and his feet shall stand upon the Mount of Olives." Revelation: 1:14, "his head and his hair like wool, and his eyes like fire." Eyery truth, fact and tradition of religion points to the dual personality of the Father and the Son. The Jews alone have some justification in their monotheistic attitude. To them Yaweh is their one and only God. Yet even they have now spiritualized him. The Latter-day Saints alone possess the whole truth on this vital principle of faith. The final proof of the personality of God is the appearance of both the Father and the Son to the prophet in the grove at Palmyra. Thousands have received the testimony of this vision as testified to by the prophet. Who can disprove it? QUESTIONS. 1. What is the idea of the Christian world about our heavenly Father? 2. Quote the first of the 39 Articles of Faith. 3. What authority have we for belief in a personal God? 4. Read the article on the true and living God from the Compendium. 5. What can you say of the differences in belief between our Church and Christian churches generally? 6. What church did your parents come out of? 7. What is your idea of the personality of God, the ['ather, and his Son, Jesus Christ? 8. How did you obtain that idea or testimony? 
 LESSON II. Work and Business. SEOND WEEK IN FEBRUARY. LESSON IIL. Literature. TuHirp WEEK IN. FEBRUARY. LATTER-DAY SAINTS' HYMNS. THE SPIRIT OF GOD LIKE A FIRE IS BURNING. This hymn has grown to be the medium of expression of the soul of the people of the Church. It was written by W. W. Phelps, in Kirtland, Ohio. It was composed for the dedicatory service of the Kirtland temple. This hymn is distinguished in two ways, first, it was written for the dedication service of the first temple erected and, second, it is the first hymn composed to be used at the dedication of a temple in the latter days. The story goes that the Prophet Joseph Smith went into the printing office where W. W. Phelps was at work. On seeing him come in, Elder Phelps presented the poem. The prophet expressed great delight with the hymn. It was later printed on pieces of white satin in which form it was used at the dedicatory service. Immediately following the prayer of dedication, which was given through revelation, this song was sung. We can scarcely conceive of a hymn being sung under more propitious circumstances, certainly its setting was little short of ideal. In the course of our lesson, we shall seek to show that the hymn was in spirit and in substance well suited to the occasion, thus making of it an "occasional" or specialized hymn of the very first order. From this introduction we proceed to a study of the first stanza, and here we wish to say that the unit of composition which is generally called the paragraph, in prose, is known as the stanza in poetry, and that a verse, technically speaking, is a line of poetry: i "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning; The latter-day glory begins to come forth; The visions and blessings of old are returning, And angels are coming to visit the earth." "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning!" In the early Christian Era there were those who, feeling the warmth of the Spirit of God, referred to it as a burning within, so that W. W. GUIDE LESSONS.. 49 Phelps' figure has a double power, first that it is apt, and second, that it suggests a beautiful incident in the life of the Savior. Passing to the second verse or line of the hymn, "The latter-day glory begins to come forth;"' we are confronted with the fact that it takes many words to describe what glory is; indeed. It is doubtful if the: word really admits of description. At any rate, it appears to be the blending of the desirable and admirable, and is born of a most exultant and hopeful mood. The third line, ''The visions and blessings of old are returning," is a very fine example of the quality of suggestiveness in literature. Let us pause and' consider how it draws on the knowledge and imagination of the past, as we recreate all of the wonderful visions and blessings of olden times. It is certainly not surprising that literary critics insist on suggestiveness as a prime quality in literature. The fouth line, "The angels are coming to visit the earth," calls to mind all of the visitations of holy angels since that first prayer in the woods, when the Father and the Son came in response to Joseph's petition., Each stanza is followed by. A chorus truly wonderful in qualily: "We'll sing and we'll shout with the armies of heaven, Hosanna, hosanna, to God and the Lamb. Let glory to them in the highest be given, Henceforth and forever; amen and amen." This chorus is of the very essence of the occasion.' In supreme joy at the completion of the holy house, those of earth desire to mingle their song of praise with those of heaven. Then follows the shout of 'Hosanna, hosanna, to God and the Lamb." No other words in the language so fully indicate the dedication of a temple to the Most High as these words, in fact hosanna is almost certain to call to the mind of a Latter-day Saint the thrilling experience of the hosanna shout as given at the dedication of our temples. In view of this fact the use of the expression, "Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb," is most happy. The second stanza reads: "The Lord is extending the Saints' understanding, Restoring their judges and all as at first, The knowledge and power of God are expanding, The vail o'er the earth is beginning to burst." This. Stanza does not contain any heightened literary ex- 
 Pression, its value lies in the fact that it recounts some of the things that are making for the redemption of mankind and for the glory of God on earth. "The Lord is extending the Saints' understanding," a line indicating that the power of the Saints to comprehend truth is being enlarged. ''Restoring their judges and all as at first," a repetition of the thought that the gospel in its purity is being restored. "The knowledge and power of God are expanding," a condensed line, always permissible in poetry if it preserves the meter, or music of the verses. The thought seems to be that constantly the Saints are adding to their information concerning God and his almighty power. "The vail o'er the earth is beginning to burst.'" This line forms the climax of this stanza. The climax is the point of greatest exultation, perhaps, in a hymn such as we are considering. Welden Phelps reaches a climax in each of his stanzas. To turn to the line on its content side: "The vail o'er the earth is beginning to burst," a most fortunate touch of imagery for surely the vail did burst at the dedication of the Kirtland temple, and surely it has grown transparent at the dedication of succeeding temples, until there are many among the Latter-day Saints who have seen holy angels in the temples of cur God. The third stanza is not frequently sung by the Latter-day Saints, it reads: "We'll call in our solemn assemblies in Spirit, To spread forth the kingdom of heaven abroad, That we through our faith may begin to inherit, The visions and blessings and glory of God." This stanza may be discussed as a unit. It suggests in the first place the solemn assembly of the priesthood, gathered together on special occasions. Then attention is called to the fact that one of the solemn obligations of the Church is to spread the gospel. Then follows the intimation that our blessings are predicated on our faith, if we would inherit the visions and blessings of God. Approaching the fourth stanza we read: "We'll wash and be washed and with oil be anointed, Withal not omitting the washing of feet; For he that receiveth his penny appointed, Must surely be clean at the harvest of wheat." This stanza has in mind temple ordinances, and is therefore appropriate for a dedication hymn. It, too, is full of the quality of suggestiveness, bringing to our minds the instance of washing GUIDE LESSONS.: 51 of feet to be found in the scripture, also the parable of those who agreed on a penny for their compensation, The fifth stanza speaks of: "Old Israel that fled from the world for his freedom, Must come with the cloud and the pillar amain, A Moses and Aaron and Joshua lead him, And feed him on manna from heaven again." An analogy between the way God gathered ancient Israel to the land of promise and the way he is gathering modern Israel, that Zion might be built and become the abode of the just. A fitting analogy is very effective as a literary device. "How blessed the day when the lamb and the lion Shall lie down together without any ire, And Ephraim be crowned with his blessing in Zion, As Jesus descends with his chariot of fire." It is noted that a climax is frequently reached in the last line of the stanza. The last stanza of the hymn forms the climax: of the hymn. In this stanza the Millennium is forshadowed, and the imagination goes forward and backward. Backward to the wonderful allusions made to the Jewish scripture, and forward to that time, blessed indeed, when Jesus shall come to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. In conclusion we would draw attention to the comprehensiveness of the hymn, for the poet has covered time from the first vision to the great consummation to be brought about by the Prince of Peace. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS, 1. Technically speaking, what name do we give to a line in poetry? What name do we give to a group of lines? 2. Go to your hymn book and learn how many hymns W. W. Phelps has contributed to Latter-day Saint hymnology. 3. Give your own definition of an occasional poem or an occasional hymn. 4. Would you expect the dedication of a temple to inspire one gifted as a writer of song to write a dedication hymn? If so, why? 5. Relate the incident of the disciples of Christ saying, "Did not our bosom burn within us?" 6. Which three stanzas of the hymn are familiar to the Latter-day Saints, and which three are seldom heard in the congregations of the Saints? ay bo 
. Relate the story of Christ washing the feet of his disciples. 8. Trace the analogy suggested in the fifth stanza between the gathering and leadership of ancient Israel to their Land of Promise, and the gathering and leadership of modern Israel as they journeyed towards their promised land. 9. God fed ancient Israel. With manna, with what did he feed modern Israel in the hour of its need. 10. What features of this hymn mark it as specially suitable to be used at the dedicatory service of a temple? LESSON IV. Social Service. FourtTH WEEK IN FEBRUARY. MUNCIPAL GOVERNMENT. NATURE, FORMS AND FUNCTIONS OF MUNCIPAL GOVERNMENT. NATURE. Sovereign power over local affairs belongs to the state except as it may have been delegated to Federal Government. The powers of local government, exercised by cities and towns, is delegated authority from the state. In Utah most of this delegated authority and especially the determination of the forms and functions of city government is granted by the state legislature. In some states this grant of authority is made in the state constitution. The purpose of Amendment No. 1 in the last Utah state election was to give home rule to cities independent of action by the state legislature. This amendment failed. FORMS. Until recent years the most common form of city government in Utah was the mayor and council plan. Some years ago the law was so changed as to provide for the commission form of government for cities of the first and the second class; first class cities must have a population over 50,000 and second class, over 5,000. The law provides for five commissioners for cities of the first class and three commissioners for cities of the second class. The mayor and council form of government is retained for cities of the third class; the law provides for five councilors elected at large. In cities of the first and second class there are also boards of education to manage the schools. GUIDE LESSONS. 53 The city manager plan is being tired out in some cities under direction of a mayor and council. This plan provides for the employment of a competent man to take charge of the city's business, as a private corporation employs a manager to take care of its business. In some states this plan of management is provided for by law. The idea behind these changes in the form of city government is to remove the management of the city's affairs as far as possible from partisan politics, and to put it on a business basis, after the fashion of the business of a private corporation managed by a Board of Directors. The government of a town in Utah remains under the direction of a board of five trustees, who usually serve without pay or for a nominal salary. FUNCTIONS. In general the function of city government is to manage the local affairs; such as, public safety, including police, fire, and health protection; public affairs and finance, including a legal department, civil and criminal courts, licenses, and all matters pertaining to finance; a water department, which may include management of irrigation as well as culinary water; a street department, including construction, repair, cleaning and sprinkling of streets; a park and public property department, including management of all parks and play grounds belonging to the city, except school grounds. Many minor functions such as management of a city cemetery, public bath house, estray pound, and offices of various inspectors may be assigned to one or another of these departments as a matter of convenience or to equalize responsibility between commissioners. In cities of the second class the responsibilties are divided between the three commissioners on the same general principles. In cities of the third class and in towns the busines is handled by the council or board acting, as a rule, through small committees. Where a public Library is maintained it is managed by a Library board appointed by the general city government. School Boards are, however, independently elected and are responsible directly to the people. In Utah the schools of cities of the third class and of towns are part of a larger unit, the consolidated school district. A city may own and operate public utilities. In case of streets, and sidewalks, public ownership is very evidently a necessity. It is almost so in case of a water system and a sewage system. Electric lighting plants and gas plants are frequently owned and operated, as are occasionally street railway systems. In any case the city in some measure regulates public utilities, 
 Except as these utilities may be regulated directly by the state; that is, the state as a rule either regulates these matters by its own commission or delegates power to municipal corporations. It is now a well established principle that public utilities not owned by the public must be subject to public regulation, Each citizen of a community must be protected in his life, health, liberty and property. As a domestic problem this protection can be given best by local government. Furthermore, the social and business life of people who dwell in cities is so intermingled that a great deal of positive regulation is necessary: first to avoid conflicts; and second, to secure cooperative action in carrying forward the community business. Also to regulate community recreation—theatres, dance halls and all other places of public entertainment. This regulation can be made effective generally only through government. Local government is best adapted to this purpose. QUESTIONS. 1. From what source does a city or town derive its governmental powers? 2. In what ways may this power be delegated? 3. What advantage is claimed for the commission over the mayor and council form of government? 4. What service may the police give other than detecting and arresting criminals? 5. Why is it necessary to maintain a city health department? 6. What are the advantages of a city's owning its water supply and water works? 7. Would there be advantages in having public utilities either owned or regulated by government? 8. Why is it best to have local affairs regulated by local government? REFERENCES. Constitution and laws of your own state. Ordinances of your own city. (Copies of these ordinances may be obtained by applying at the City Hall.) Munro—Government of American Cities—The MacMillan Co. (This book may be obtained in public and school libraries.) 'Guide Lessons for March. LESSON I Theology and Testimony. First WEEK IN Marcu SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND THE DEAD AUTHORITY The foundation of religion here, and hereafter, is divine authority; that is, the legitimate authority to teach, to preach and to administer in the ordinances of the gospel. And what is true on this earth, in regard to authority, is just as true of life in any other sphere, world, or universe. A church may possess many of the forms and ceremonies, the principles and sacraments of the gospel, but if that church, either here or hereafter, lacks the authority which comes only from our Father, then it is a house founded on the sand, as the Savior himself said. This lesson does not deal with the necessity of a church organization; that comes later. We speak only of the vital need of God's authority to establish and carry on a church. The vitality of any church rests upon its authority to act in the name of the Lord. The priesthood of God is the power and authority given to man to administer in the ordinances of his gospel, either for the "quick or for the dead," or for both.. One of the great revelations received by the Prophet in his first vision was that the sects of the day had all lost their authority. A wealth of information on the apostasy is found in Elder B. H. Roberts' book, New Witnesses for God, especially in the first seven chapters; and in his Gospel; as also in Elder Orson F. Whitney's Gospel Themes; and in Talmage's Articles o7 Faith; Orson Pratt's articles on Revelation, and The Bible an Insufficient Guide, are filled with great truths on this point. The Restoration, by O. J. P. Widtsoe contains valuable data also. From the point of view of a non-"Mormon"' student, the Roman Catholic Church would seem to be the only Christian church on earth with any shadow of claim to real succession of divine authority, from the time of Christ. All other Christian sects, and there are literally hundreds of them, claim that the Catholic church apostatized from the true Christian faith. The reformed churches are undoubtedly right in this view. But, the ~ 
 "protesting" sects, or Protestant churches, in their gropings for a trtte church have no recourse but to base their claims for authority simply and wholly on the Bible. We quote from the Presbyterian Confession of Faith, published in Philadelphia, in 1906, which is the substance of faith of many of the Protestant Churches: "Although the light of nature, and the works of creation 'and providence, do so far manifest the goodness, wisdom, and power of God, as to leave men inexcusable; yet they are not sufficient to give that knowledge of God and of his will, which is necessary unto salvation; therefore it pleased the Lord, at sundry times, and in divers manners, to reveal himself, and to declare his will unto his church; and afterwards, for the better preserving and propagating of the truth, and for the more sure establishment and comfort of the Church against the corruption of the flesh, and the malice. Of Satan and of the world, to commit the same wholly unto writing; which maketh the Holy Scripture to be most necessary; those former ways of God's revealing his will unto his people being now ceased." President John Taylor says, (Vol. I, Journal of Discourses): "Abraham was a man who contended for the true and legitimate authority. He was a man who dared fear God, and do honor to his authority, which was legitimate. He obtained his dominion by legitimate authority; his Priesthood was obtained from God; his authority was that which is associated with the everlasting gospel, which was, and is, and is to come, that liveth and abideth forever." Tt would seem that none of the founders of various sects except the Catholics ever claimed divine authority. The Roman Catholic church declares, in A Catechism of Christian Doctrine, published under the authority of Archbishop Gibbons: "The means instituted by our Lord to enable men at all times to share in the fruits of his redemption are the Church and the Sacraments. The Church is the congregation of all those who profess the faith of Christ, partake of the same Sacraments, and are governed by their lawful pastors under one visible head. Jesus Christ is the invisible Head of - the Church. Our Holy Father, the Pope, the Bishop of Rame, is the Vicar of Christ on earth and the visible Head of the Church. The Pope, the Bishop of Rome, is the visible Head of the Church because he - is the successor. Of St. Peter, whom Christ made the chief of the Apostles and the visible Head of the Church. The successors of the other Apostles are the bishops of the Holy Catholic church. Christ founded the Church to teach, govern, sanctify, and save all men. The attributes of the Church are three: authority, infallibility, and indefectibility." The facts concerning the apostasy of the Catholic chureh is treated by Mosheim in his Ecclesiastical History very exhaustively. See article on apostasy, in the Ready Reference and Compendium. Divine authority in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints rests squarely upon God who conferred the authority necessary to organize the Church, and to officiate in the ordinances GUIDE LESSONS. 37 of the gospel, upon Joseph Smith through revelation and through the restoration of the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods. The Aaronic Priesthood was conferred upon the Prophet by John the Baptist and the Melchizedek Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph Smith by the Apostles Peter, James and John. (See Doc. And Cov., and page 47 of the Ready Reference.) Without divine authority there will arise strife and confusion in religious affairs. And men who usurp that authority, even where they do so ignorantly, will find themselves, here and on the other side, subject to all kinds of darkness, error and delusion. Men must be converted to the need of divine authority, and they must receive that authority from one who has received it in direct line from God himself, if that man or woman grow and progress, receive light, truth and joy. 1. What do you mean when you speak of authority? 2.. What is a church? 3. 'Name some of the Protestant churches? 4, What can you say of the Roman Catholic church and the Greek Catholic church, with regard to their authority? 5.: Give an account of the great apostasy of the Christian church? 6. Why do men need divine authority in the world of spirits? 7. Why is the Bible an insufficient guide for any church? 8. Who gave the Prophet authority to organize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? 9. Who holds the authority in this Church? LESSON II. Work and Business. SEconp WEEK IN Marcu. LESSON III. Literature. THirp WEEK IN Marcu. IILATTER-DAY SAINT HYMNS. "COME, COME, YE SAINTS." In our last lesson we considered a hymn written for a special occasion. In that instance the author called the attention of the prophet to the fact that he had written a hymn, and submitted it for his consideration. The hymn we present for the 
 Third lesson was brought into being at the request of the second great prophet of the Church, Brigham Young. Scarcely was President Young appointed head of the Church, before he was called to lead the people across the plains into this desert country. Not half has ever been told of the hardship of that march. A few years ago Judge Terrell, of ' Austin, Texas, U. S. Minister to Turkey, during Grover Cleveland's administration, came on to the Temple grounds, and asked the guide to permit him to speak to the party being conducted through the grounds. Permission granted him, he said, "Ladies and Gentlemen: I, was a youth of nineteen when your people left the city of Nauvoo. I stood on the banks of the river and saw them cross to what I believed to be certain death. A poorer, more bedraggled set of people I have never seen. They started with horses and cows hitched to the same wagon, and in some instances took their goods across the river in a wheelbarrow. What I witness on this block today is a veritable miracle to me." Under such circumstances one can readily imagine that the inconveniences of the journey would prove a sore trial, and that there would be times when human nature would well nigh break under the pressure, and greatly need the stimulation of skilled leadership, coupled with the blessings of Almighty God. It was at Locust Creek, Iowa, that President Brigham Young, feeling great anxiety, because there were murmurings in the camp of Israel, called Elder William Clayton aside, and said, "Brother Clayton, I want you to write a hymn that the people can sing al their camp-fires, in the evening; something that will give them succor and support, and help them to forget the many troubles and trials of the journey." Elder Clayton withdrew from the camp, aud in two hours returned with the hymn familarly known as, "Come, come, ye Saints." His personal testimony is to the effect that the Spirit of the Lord rested upon him during the time of its composition, and that the hymn was written under the power and inspiration of the Lord. That it served admirably the purpose for which it was written is abundantly testifed to, by hundreds of people who drew from it comfort and support as they made their memorable journey to these valleys. The first stanza reads: "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, But with joy wend your way; Though hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day. GUIDE LESSONS. ' 59 'Tis better far for us to strive, Our useless cares from us to drive. Do this, and joy your hearts will swell— All ts well! All is well!" The first line is a veritable bugle call for courage, and the second line asks that they go on their way rejoicing, no matter what the odds. In the third and fourth lines the author admits that the journey will undoubtedly be hard for most of them; but along with that admission is the promise that the grace of God will attend and support them all sufficiently. "°Tis better far for us to strive, our useless cares from us to drive." These two lines intimate that trifles are fretting them. They are reminded that such things are useless, and destroy one's power to do better things. Possibly the line carries a slight reproof, but if so, it is 'tactfully concealed between promises of joy and support, and the asurrance that all will be well. Turning our attention to the first two lines of the second stanza, it is evident that Elder Clayton is calling upon the Saints to look upon the whole matter from a spiritual point of view, and not from the human standpoint, lest they faint by the way. Nothing is more firmly established in the religious life than that the Spirit of the Lord can heighten and relieve any situation, no matter how forbidding. President George Q. Cannon, imprisoned for conscience sake, said, that "no bridegroom coming from the bridal chamber could be more happy than he was," as he came from his prison cell, and, he attributed his spiritual buoyancy to the sustaining power of the Holy Spirit. Then comes a challenge, issued through a question, "Why should we think to earn a great reward, if we now shun the fight?" We are inclined to call this the gem thought of the hymn; at all events, it is the thought that we may carry over into our lives, and which is as applicable to the life of today as it was to the lives of those for whom it was written. It is a nugget of wisdom. And then again, the fines: "Gird up your loins, fresh courage take, Our God will never us forsake; And soon we'll have this tale to tell, All is well! All is well!" 'Again the bugle call for courage, and the promise that all is well. J 
 "We'll find the place which God for us prepared, Far away in the West; Where none shall come to hurt or make afraid; There the Saints will be blest. We'll make the air with music ring, Shout praises to our God and King: Above the rest these words we'll tell— All is well! All is well!" N 4 The central thought of this stanza is that the Saints are to find a home in the West where peace will be their portion. Yet no one knew where that home would be when the words were written. No other thought could be a substitute for that thought. It is the promised reward of their courage and faith. These people had been driven from their homes, what they desired above all else was an abiding place. If a man is hungry, ke wants food; if thirsty, drink; and if homeless, a home. The poet reminds them of the prophecy uttered by Joseph the prophet, in 1842, that the Saints would become a mighty people in the Rocky Mountains. The fourth and last stanza may be discussed in two parts. The force. Of the first few lines, of this stanza, we think, is not to be impressed through any discussion that may be conducted through the use of words. 'The most effective and eloquent tribute that may be paid to them, comes from such recitals as President Heber J. Grant gave us the benefit of, in a recent conference. For this reason we insert this wonderful life story. "T remember," said President Grant, "upon one occasion, that my father-in-law—the late Oscar Winters said, 'Heber, I believe that the young people of Zion do not thoroughly appreciate what Brother Clayton's hymn meant to us, as we sang it, night after night, crossing the plains; and I believe that choir leaders «lo not appreciate it, or they would not stop after singing three verses.' "Brother Winters further said, 'I want to tell you an incident that happened as I was coming to the valley. One of our company was delayed in coming to camp; they got some volunteers, and were about to go back and see if anything had happened—if he had had trouble with the Indians—or what was the matter—when he saw him coming in the distance. When he'arrived we unyoked his cattle and helped him to get his supper. He had been quite sick and had to lie down by the road a time er two. After supper he sat down on a large rock, by the camp fire and sang the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." It was the rule in the camp that whenever anybody started to sing that hymn, we would all sing it, but for some reason no one joined GUIDE LESSONS. 61 with this brother. His voice was quite weak and feeble, and when he had finished, I glanced around, and I don't believe there were any of the people sitting there, whose eyes were tearless. He sang the hymn very beautifully, but with a weak and plaintive voice, and yet with the spirit and inspiration of the hymn. The next morning we discovered that he was not hitching up his oxen; we went to his wagon, and we found that he had died during the night! We dug a shallow grave and laid his body in it. We then thought of the stone on which he had been sitting the night before when he sang: ""And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow, too, With the just we shall dwell.' "We then rolled that stone over in place as a headstone for his grave.' " Surely, it is small wonder that after listening to such a telling story as this that President Heber J. Grant should have selected. "Come, come, ye Saints," as his favorite hymn. Judge Terrell said, "The path of the Latter-day Saints was marked by foot prints of blood, and by silent graves from Nauvoo to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. The marvel is that they did not all die. Those of us who saw them go forth into the wilderness believed that every one was marked for death:" but in accord with the prophet's word they found the West: and in it as one distinguished gentleman said, "They have carved an empire out of desolation." In conclusion we say this hymn has no special rhetorical embellishment; but it has that which is above and beyond rhetorical embellishment: it has a record for having met the soulhunger of a people who were making the most courageous effort, perhaps, ever made in the history of the world to establish themselves where they might worship God as conscience dictated. Nor is this its only merit; it has embalmed the past of a people whose growing youth can know little of the heroism of their fathers and mothers except as it is preserved to them through the pen of the historian and the medium of art, and this classic of the plains is one of the mediums through which the marvelous past of the Latter-day Saints is preserved. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Tell in brief the circumstances under which the Latterday Saints left Nauvoo. 2. From the Latter-day Saints Encyclopedia obtain a brief sketch of the life of William Clayton. 62 ' 
. Under what circumstances did he write the hymn under discussion? 4. Relate the story told by Col. Kane about the Nauvoo Exodus. (See History of the Church.) 5. Recite the gem thought of the poem. 6. Have some one read President Heber J. Grant's comments on the hymn, to be found in the ninetieth semi-annual conference report. 7. Select the lines which indicate that the people were fretted with little things. 8. Select the lines that would give courage to a people cast out into a wilderness, as these people were cast out into the wilderness. 9. Recite some story familiar to you of the singing of this hymn on the plains. 10. Tell the story of some one who died on the plains. 11. How would you form a pageant for a Relief Society meeting that would recall the past function and history of this hymn 'on the plains. 12. If it is possible to present a simple«pageant illustrating this hymn for the meeting in which this hymn is studied by all means do so. LESSON IV. Social Service. FourtH WEEK IN Marcu. HOW CITIZENS MAY HELP OR HINDER THEIR LOCAL GOVERNMENT. Citizens too commonly throw all the burden of government upon those elected to office. If the prohibition law is not universally and rigidly enforced citizens blame the police force or the sheriff without realizing that it is very hard to get a jury from their own number that will convict on the best of evidence. Few persons feel any responsibility themselves for law enforcement, although every citizen is a potential officer of the law and may be called into actual service in an emergency. It is almost - impossible for officers to enforce laws without the cooperation of the citizens, They are in their most difficult cases dependent upon citizens for information leading to arrests, for testimony in the courts, for jurors that honestly believe in law enforcement and that cannot be swayed from their purpose by the oratory of criminal lawyers. 
 63 The tendency of immature and unthinking people to be loyal to persons, right or wrong, rather than to be loyal to the best interests of the community, must be corrected before guod government is possible. This means that a citizen will be just as ready to report to the proper public authority an offense against the community as he would an offense against his own person or property. A man who is held up and robbed does not hesitate to report the matter to the police and to testify, if he has opportunity. As a patriotic citizen, should he not take the same interest in prosecuting one who has held up and robbed the community? Certainly there is as much moral violence in robbing the public as in committing a like offense against an individual. The civic interpretation of the golden rule might well read: "Protect the public as you would protect yourself." There are laws forbidding gambling, drinking intoxicating liquors, improper use of drugs, and use of tobacco by minors, or supplying tobacco to minors; also laws pertaining to quarantine and other public health regulations, and measures regulating the business and conduct of public pleasure resorts. All of these laws are very difficult of rigid enforcement. Without active, hearty cooperation of the citizens, the police department or the sheriff's office is practically helpless. This is not said to excuse their inefficiency or indisposition to do their part, it is simply a statement of an unfortunate fact. In many cities it happens that the forces for evil are organized to oppose both the enactment of laws suppressing wrong doing, and also the enforcement of existing laws intended to prevent persons from preying upon and demoralizing the community. These forces are sometimes supported by so-called respectable business men, who have houses to rent for illegal purposes, or are otherwise interested in taking profits derived from the weakness of their fellow men. Conscientious officials have to meet these opposing forces, while their critics find fault with government, politics, and politicians, instead of becoming aware of their own civic indifference. The forces for good must be at least as fully organized and as active as are the forces for evil. Church organizations ought to be in politics, in the best sense of that term. Their faith and their preaching must be supplemented by active community work for social betterment. It is folly for a church organization to talk merely about current community evils when it is within its power to eliminate these evils by wise laws and their strict enforcement. On the more constructive side of civic duty is provision for a high type of public service. This will include wholesome public recreation, liberal educational opportunities for all, care for the needy, and beauty and comfort everywhere. Real civic pride 
 Finds as much satisfaction in these community assets as good housewife in the loveliness, comfort and general s her own home. Civic efficiency requires that the citizens be famili the life and activities of the community. These must be wth a view to discovering the best methods of furtheri aims in cooperation with other citizens. QUESTIONS. 1. A. What are the quarantine laws of your city or town b. Why should they be strictly enforced? C. How can. You help? 2. A. To what extent does the law of your state forbi bling? B. What is the nature of your town or 'city ordi this subject? C. What is the relation of raffling at church fairs to laws and ordinances? D. Are there punch boards or other gambling devices any of your stores or other public places? E. Why should husbands indulge in petty gambling, it is forbidden to minors? F{. If there is gambling in your community to what are you responsible for tolerating it? 3. A. Do any of the stores in your community sell to minors? B. Do you ever see minors using tobacco, or do you of their using it? C. If they do, where do they get it? D. Would you testify against a merchant of your ance who sold tobacco to minors? 4. A. Is any liquor sold or used as a beverage in munity? If so, who sells it or who makes it? B. What is likely to be the effect upon a family of "home brew"?: a. Are the public dances in your community well con b. What kind of music is engaged? C. What is the relation of the music to the motions dancers? D. Is moonlight dancing indulged in? The RELIEF SOCIETY \ MAGAZINE, Emmeline B. Wells Prof. Evan Stephens No. 26. Our Mountain Home So Dear. @ (Transposed.) E B. Weis ' E, Sv2PrHene. Y "1. Our moun-tain home 80 dear, Where cry-stal wa - tersclear Flow ever 2. We'll roam the verdant hills, And by the spark - ling rills Pluck the wild 3. In eylvan depth and shade, In forest and in glade, Where'er we 4. The stream-let, flow'r and sod, Be - spéak fhe vee God, And ell comee eal renee ee ae eee q ev "ry side, Bloom-ing in state - ly pride, Are fair to be. Bright and fair, And sun-shine ev - 'ry-where, Make pleas-ant hours. Bud and tree, Or bird or hum-ming bee, Or blade of grass. Work to trace, Thro' na-ture's smiling face, In heart di - vine. { J.