Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
PROGRAM OF AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1924 (To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences)
Dates July 19-20?Woodruff, Yellowstone. July 26-27?Curlew, Lost River, Raft River, Snowflake. August 2- 3?Alberta, Emery, St. Johns, Teton. August 5- 6?Lethbridge, Wayne. August 9-10?Bannock, Blaine, Shelley, South Sevier, Taylor, August 16-17?Big Horn, Blackfoot, Oneida. August 23-24?Bear River, Idaho. August 30-31?Bear Lake, Garfield, San Juan. September 2- 3?Panguitch, Young. September 6- 7?Kanab, San Luis. September 13-14?Boise, Montpelier, Parowan, Twin Falls, Minidoka. September 20-21?Duchesne, Millard, North Sanpete, St. George, Star Valley, Union. September 23-24?Roosevelt. September 27-28?Carbon, Deseret, Fremont, Hyrum, Morgan, Sevier, Uintah. October 11-12?Beaver, Benson, Cassia, North Sevier, Tintic. October 18-19?Summit, Tooele, Wasatch. October 25-26?Maricopa. October 28-29?Juarez. November 1- 2?St. Joseph. November 8- 9?Burley, Malad, Los Angeles. November 15-16?Bingham, Juab. November 22-23?Pocatello, Portneuf, Rigby, South Sanpete. November 29-30?Franklin, Gunnison, Moapa.
Conventions separate from the quarterly conferences are to be held in the following stakes, the dates to be given later in a separate program: Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Grant, Jordan, Liberty, Logan, Mt. Ogden, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Oquirrh, Pioneer, Salt Lake, South Davis, Utah, Weber.
Time of Meetings
Saturday 10 A. M. To 12 noon?Joint Meeting, Auxiliary Stake Board


Workers, with General Board Representatives, the Stake Presidency, High Council, Alternates, and Bishoprics to be present. Public Meeting.
2 to 4 P. M.?Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers Meeting. Sunday School Stake Board Meeting. M. I. A. Joint Stake Board and Separate Stake Board Meetings. Primary Stake and Ward Officers' Meeting with the public invited.
4:15 to 5:30 P. M.?Separate interviews of the General Representatives with their respective stake superintendencies or presidencies including secretaries,
Evening Session?Public meeting devoted to the work of the Relief Society and M. I. A.
Sunday
10 A. M. To 12 noon?Relief Society Stake Board Meeting. Sunday School Stake and Ward Officers' Meeting, with public invited. Y. M. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers' Meeting. Y. L. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers' Meeting. Primary Stake Board Meeting.
2 P. M.?General Conference Session.
Evening Session?Conjoint Meeting of Y. M. M. I. A. and Y. L. M. I. A.
PROGRAM FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS (Including the Joint Stake Board Meeting)
Joint Meeting of Auxiliary Stake Board Workers With General Board Representatives, the Stake Presidency, High Council, Alternates, and Bishoprics Being Invited
I. Song. II. Prayer III. Demonstration?The Organization of Lesson Material 50 minutes Conducted by a General Representative IV. Stake Board Activities: a. Union Meetings 10 minute address by A General Representative 1. Purpose. 2. Suggestive order of business.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 419
b. Stake Board Visits 10 minute address by A General Representative
    1. Purpose.
    2. Methods.
V. Round Table Discussion of the Following Topics: a. Relation of the Auxiliary Stake Boards to Stake and Ward Priesthood authorities. b. Steps in the installation of a new administration. c. The effect of change of administration on Board membership. d. Duplication of offices. e. Teacher training. f. Recreation. g. Meetings of auxiliary executives. h. Contributions and collections. VI. Benediction.
SATURDAY, 2 TO 4 P. M.
Meeting of Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers, Including Visiting Teachers and Class Leaders, Bishops Being Invited
I. Suggestions and Outlines for Ward Conferences. II. Membership in the Relief Society. III. Cooperation between Bishop and Relief Society Ward President. IV. Studying Family Situations. V. Responsibility of Relief Society Welfare Workers.
(These topics will be treated by a Representative of the General Board.)
VI. Questionnaire.
SATURDAY EVENING (Hour to be fixed by Stake Presidency)
PUBLIC MEETING (Under direction of Stake Presidency) Devoted to the Work of the Relief Society and M. I. A., Relief Society and M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers to be Present
I. Ladies' Chorus Members of Relief Society II. The Relief Society Message A 30 minute demonstration. A. Motherhood. B. Conservation of Child. C. Conservation of Family. III. Stake M. I. A. Song Assembly IV. M. I. A. Activities for Ward Social Center. A 30 minute demonstration


V. Recreation in the Home A 30 minute demonstration. VI. Mixed Double Quartet Members of the M. I. A.
(The above program will be prepared by Stake workers in accordance with plans that will be submitted by the respective General Boards.)
SUNDAY, 10 A. M. TO 12 NOON
Meeting of Relief Society Stake Board Members
I. The Stake Board Meeting. II. Qualifications and Duties of Stake Officers and Board Members. III. The Conduct of Ward Relief Society Meetings. IV. Affiliation with National and International Councils of Women. V. Questionnaire.
(These topics will be treated by a representative of the General Board.)
European Mission.
Very interesting letters have been received at Relief Society headquarters from the European Mission, expressing appreciation and thanks for the carloads of clothing sent to this mission during the past winter. In addition to a letter from Mrs. Emma Ray McKay, to the General Board, and a letter from President David O. McKay, to the First Presidency of the Church, there are letters from several branch Relief Societies, including Frankfurt, Hamburg, Lubeck.
Our readers will be interested in the letters from President and Mrs. McKay, which we print in full:
"Dear Brethren: Fourteen crates of shoes and seventy-two bales of clothing have been delivered here at Durham House free of charge, excepting dock charges, customs duties, etc., which we may probably have refunded.
"The Leyland Steamship Line, part of the White Star Steamship Line, brought the freight gratuitously from New York to Liverpool, and the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, also gratuitously furnished drays and draymen to cart the 21,640 pounds from the docks to Edge Lane.
"In behalf of the Elders and Saints of the British Mission permit me to thank you and, through you, all those who have in any way contributed, either of their time or means, to this magnificent gift to the poor in this land. Only those who have had to help handle these scores of two-hundred-weight bales and from two hundred to nine hundred pound crates can realize what a stupendous undertaking it was to ship three car loads of shoes, clothing, etc., from Salt Lake City to Europe.
"All praise to the Relief Society and to all other members
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 421
of the Church and friends who have participated in this philanthropic work. In this expression of praise and appreciation, the railroads and steamship companies share.
"There is a special meeting of conference presidents of the British Mission in London, April 5, at which the final distribution of the clothing will be made to the different branches throughout Great Britain.
"The ready response to a call for help, the united effort in a worthy cause, the masterful manner in handling many tons of goods at a minimum of expense, the organization already at hand to give the gifts to those for whom they are intended?all this is simply another demonstration of the effective working of the social phase of the Church of Christ. It brings salvation and peace here and now. 'By their fruits ye shall know them.'
"Affectionately yours, (Signed) David O. McKay."
"Dear Sisters of the General Board: Two or three days ago, when four truck loads of clothing and shoes were brought to Durham House, our hearts rejoiced; for we knew what a blessing the articles will be to many of our Saints here in the British Isles. One of the presidents of conferences to whom I gave the information of this gift from our beloved sisters at home, said, with tears in his eyes, 'I shall be very glad when the articles come as they are needed badly in our part of the mission.' Undoubtedly all the other presidents feel the same. No one except those who have helped can realize the work of sending such an immense amount of clothing as has been received here. God bless our Utah women for this magnificent contribution.
"Equally acceptable, if not more so, even than the clothing, is the check of $388.04 received today. Money is needed for food for our old people throughout the mission. We wish to thank everyone, the men as well as the women, who have helped to pack and handle the heavy loads preparatory for shipment.
"Most of our Relief Societies in the European Mission are doing good work and trying to the best of their ability to carry out the wishes of the General Board. Much stress has been laid this past year, first, on the proper handling of funds; secondly, on the government of the society; and thirdly, on the study of the Magazine, and various minor points. All through the British Isles the Relief Societies are doing very commendable work, raising funds for the needy by means of sewing, bazaars, and entertainments, and except in three or four conferences, are studying lessons from the Magazine.
"Recently the North London and South London Relief Societies united and gave what has been pronounced to have been one of the most unique socials ever given in London. This was


done in commemoration of the seventeenth of March. This interesting entertainment which consisted of a sort of pageant, representing the journey of the 'Mormon' pioneers across the plains, and their entry into the valley, was given under the direction of Sister Katherine Wright, wife of Joseph E. Wright, President of the London conference. Several covered wagons decorated with the paraphernalia illustrating the pioneers' traveling across the plains, were set up in the hall, forming a circle and everything arranged like a camp on the plains. The Saints were divided into companies with one of the brethren at the head of each. Elders were dressed up to represent President Brigham Young, Elders Orson Pratt, Heber C. Kimball, William Clayton, and other Church Leaders, who were in charge of the companies. All this was most impressive to these people who had not seen the like before. The difficult part for them to understand was the cheerfulness portrayed. Some felt it to be sacrilege to act in a smiling manner, until it was explained that cheerfulness was a characteristic of the Saints even under the most adverse circumstances.
"Many calls have been made from women in Germany for lessons, and thinking that the lessons in the Magazine at present are a bit difficult to begin with, we selected thirty-six lessons from the Magazines of 1921 and 1922, and two capable elders, William A. Monson and C. Kenneth Schade, worked on the typewriter fifteen days, typing these lessons for Germany, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Armenia.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 423
"President Tadje of Germany has had the lessons translated by Brother Jean Wunderlich, and Brother McKay reports from his visit there that the sisters are taking up the lessons with great energy and delight. The whooping cough siege of our children prevented my visiting the conferences this time through Germany, but from the few statistics gleaned from Brother McKay's reports, you will know the Relief Society is becoming an important factor in that part of the world. While these statistics relate only to the attendance, I am pleased to say that in other respects as well, they are doing excellent work and are following the printed suggestions sent over to them. In the Steindamm branch the membership of the Relief Society is thirty, with an average attendance of fifty-five. The Centrum Relief Society in Berlin has a membership of ninety-two, with an average weekly attendance of sixty. The Ost Relief Society has a membership of forty-seven, average attendance of forty-three. The Moabite Society, membership sixty-eight, average weekly attendance, sixty-five. The Spandau Branch has a total membership of only eighty-two, but the Relief Society enrollment is twenty-two, with an average weekly attendance of sixteen. And so I might go on, but this will suffice to show that many of the women of the Church in Germany are attending Relief Society.
"One of the best societies visited this last year was the one in Copenhagen. Everything except our Magazine work, which the president had not then received, was strictly up to date. Lessons were studied, prayer meeting observed, every family visited monthly by teachers, sick and needy cared for, and over two hundred dollars in the treasury. A beautiful spirit for receiving any new, good suggestion was very manifest.
"I was delighted also with our visit to Aleppo, Armenia. To see the way President Booth has trained the women to do Relief Society work was a joy. Although naturally timid and backward, every woman can get up and talk to a text from ten to twenty minutes; they sing our songs in English without books and without knowing the English language; they make clothing for the needy and help care for the sick; teachers make weekly visits, and all are studying the Magazine through the kindness of Brother Booth's translation. After hearing those women talk, I felt that there is no excuse for any one of our women, either here or at home to refuse to arise to her feet and try to express herself. It was an inspiring lesson. The Relief Society meeting was held in a room decorated for Christmas. For the conference began on the Armenian Christmas day, the 19th of January. Stretched on the wall opposite the entrance, was a nine-by-twelve hand-woven rug which belongs to one of the sisters. Above the rug were pencil drawing of the Prophet Joseph Smith, of the Angel Moroni, and


the Salt Lake temple. These were done by a designer of carpet patterns and were very beautiful. Two American flags were pinned on the carpet. On each side of the rostrum were two decorated Christmas trees. The floors were covered with handmade rugs upon which the people sat in their stocking feet. These people are very loving and emotional and a person visiting them is loath to leave.
Very sincerely yours, (Signed) Emma Ray McKay."
Pioneer Stake.
One of the most charmingly appointed banquets held in connection with the anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, was that given in Pioneer stake in joint honor of the Society's birthday and the twentieth anniversary of the organization of Pioneer stake. The banquet was held in the stake hall, which was resplendent with potted plants and tastefully decorated in green and white. The guests were seated at long tables arranged in the annex, which bore crystal baskets of white carnations and green foliage, with silver candlesticks, green candles, place-cards and napkins, carrying out the unique color scheme. At each place was an individual birthday cake, in miniature, whose candles were lighted, with the hall darkened. During the progress of the banquet music was dispensed by a select orchestra. Mrs. Emily C. Willey of the stake Relief Society presidency was toastmistress and under her intelligent direction toasts were responded to by a number of those present. Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, president, gave the address of welcome. Special guests of honor were the stake presidency, members of the High Council, officers of the auxiliary organizations and members of the General Board, including President Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Louise Y. Robinson, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and their husbands. Following the banquet there was a musical program under the direction of Mrs. Mabel Poulton Kirk and community singing, games, etc., led by Miss Charlotte Stewart. Salt Lake Stake. On Tuesday, March 18th the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society celebrated the 17th of March anniversary, by giving a social in the Twenty-second ward chapel, which was attended by six hundred Relief Society women. A spicy program was given, consisting of character sketches, readings, and musical numbers, by twelve wards of the stake, and the Relief Society stake choir. A splendid luncheon was served. Mexican Mission. On the 19th of March, the El Paso Branch of the Mexican Relief Society, celebrated the 82nd anniversary of the Relief Society at the Mexican Mission Home, 3531 Ft. Boulevard, El NOTES FROM THE FIELD  425 Paso, Texas. The rooms were attractively decorated in red, white, and green, the colors of the Mexican flag. Pretty baskets of sweet peas and jonquils also adorned the rooms. A very fine program was arranged. Musical numbers were given by the native sisters and missionaries. Addresses were also made by the native sisters on the lives of the five former presidents of the Society. Sister Rey L. Pratt, president of the Mexican Mission Relief Societies, then gave a summary of the work of these noble characters. President J. A. Balderas of the El Paso branch of the Mexican Mission, gave a toast to the Society, and encouraged the members in their good work. After the program, refreshments were served. Sixty-five people were present. Maricopa Stake. An all-day celebration of the Relief Society anniversary was held in Mesa, Arizona, attended by two hundred thirty women from the four Mesa wards. A fine program was rendered, beginning at 10:30; lunch was served at noon, which was furnished by the wards and a program was given in the afternoon by stake officers. Prizes were given for various activities. There were seven sisters present over eighty years of age, sixteen over seventy, and a great many between sixty and seventy. White, blue and red badges were pinned upon them. A leap year party or dance at night finished the very successful day. Phoenix, Chandler, Gilbert and Pine observed the day in their respective wards. Juab Stake. The Juab Stake Relief Society observed the annual day in 2 very fitting way. A dance was given at which refreshments were served to a very large crowd, and during the evening the Glee Club men from the A. C. Sang two numbers and a very enjoyable. Time was had. On Tuesday in each of the wards a special program was given, including papers on the organization. Guide Lessons for October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR (Continued) The Good Shepherd?John 10:1-16. "Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. "But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. "To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. "And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice. "And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers. "This parable spake Jesus unto them: but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them. "Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. "And all that ever came before me are thieves and robbers: but the sheep. Did not hear them. "I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture. "The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might hae life, and that they might have it more abundantly. "I am the good shepherd: the good shegitteed giveth his life for the sheep. "But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming and leaveth' the sheep, and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep. "The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep. "T am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. "As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep. "And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd." In this parable the Savior declares himself to be the only