[Vol1 | December 1914 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Star of Bethlehem]
EDITORIAL.
STAR OF BETHLEHEM.
Into the eastern heavens, there shines today the first faint glimmer of that star or comet which astronomers tell us shone over the cave in Bethlehem.
It has shone once before when great destructions and devastations swept over the earth, in the year 1300 and today; men who study the heavens are questioning the portent of that glistening star which may be seen about ten o'clock on clear nights, at a point almost directly below the polar star.
As the night wanes, it arises higher in the heavens, and in the early morning, between 2 and 4 o'clock, it reaches its greatest altitude above the horizon.
Scholars are asked if this world-war be not the battle of Armageddon, referred to in the 16th chapter of the Book of Revelations.
Astronomers have been forecasting for years the coming of this star.
One prophesy which was made by a monk named Brother Johannes, in the year 1600, written in Latin, is translated into the French papers of the present day.
Says Prof.
Sothnos Latillier This is the predestined year in which the Star of Bethlehem r*appears in the heavens to herald the battle of Armageddon.
Already in the evening skies the star, which is really a comet, is dimly discernible, and as the titanic conflict now raging reaches its climax it will be visible to all eyes.
We know what events happened in the year when the Star of Bethlehem first appeared, and we know what has happened on every appearance of the star since then.
Can we doubt that the mighty events of this year are connected with its return?
Will any reasonable man question that this world-war is the battle of Armageddon foretold in the Bible, in the 16th chapter of the Book of Revelation? 4 Truly, my beloved sisters, we are on the threshold of great events.
The Star of Bethlehem shines over every cradle and threshold in this present year.
As it was in the days of Noah, so it is in these days which are so near the coming of Christ.
We are busy with the temporal things of the Kingdom we are giving gifts and making; merry, when our thoughts should rather dwell on the solemnities of the eternities which are understood only by the Latterday Saints.
One year is a very short, or a very long time.
It is one year ago since the General Board of the Relief Society prepared outlines of study, and one year ago since they decided to publish a monthly Bulletin which should contain these lessons and some other notes.
Those who have received the Bulletin are the best judges as to the success or failure of this experiment.
This is the month in which we celebrate the nativity of Christ, and although we are reasonably certain he was born in April, and not in December, still we join with the Christian world in making the 25th of December a memorial day to our worshipped Savior and Redeemer.
When we go to lay our gifts on the altar of the future, as did the wise men in the cave of Bethlehem, we are minded to question ourselves as to the value and potency of those gifts.
When I see a mother with a babe at her breast, to whom she has given the gift of a body, through her own body when; I see a father's loving arms around the shoulders of his growing sons; when I see a teacher forming character in the little students gathered about her desk, when I see a man cheerfully relinquishing a coveted prize that another may profit thereby; when I see our leaders giving of themselves without stint nor withholding in their labors of guidance and wise direction amongst people when I see the women of the Relief Society; trudging about the snowy streets with their gifts for the poor, and their words of encouragement for all, when I see men and women going down into the waters of baptism to bring their  kindred dead out from their prison houses, when I see all of these things, then I say, these noble men and women all have gifts of inestimable value to lay at the feet of the Babe of Bethlehem, and I ask myself, are any of these gifts mine to give?
S What have I done for the sick, the poor, the tempted, the tried, the widow and orphan, the weak and erring, or for the spirits in prison?
Have I saved a soul, or have I fed and nourished a starving body, or administered to a hungry spirit?
If I have, then these are my gifts of frankincense and myrrh.
I know a good woman who has gathered over $-400 to distribute to the destitute Saints in the European missions through President Hyrum M.
Smith.
Many of the givers of these gifts were poor widows themselves, struggling and almost destitute, but they have gladly denied themselves, and have appealed to the tender impulses of their friends to use their Christmas money in thus relieving the wants of our own Saints in Europe, whose fathers and husbands have gone out to this dreadful war.
This, indeed, is a work of love and charity.
Such work and kindred labors will prepare a Christmas atmosphere that will envelope us all in a robe of love and peace.
