[Vol6 | May 1919 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Guidance of Children Family Organization]
Guidance  of  Children — Family  Or- 
ganization. 
By  Lucy  Wright  Snow. 
While  the  all-absorbing  topic  of  after-war  readjustment  is 
being  discussed  and  .plans  are  made  to  meet  the  many  new  con- 
ditions ^nd  requirements,  while  schools,  churches'',  busin»ess 
houses  and  manufactories  are  being  adjusted,  what  are  fathers 
and  mothers  doing  in  the  way  of  family  adjustment? 
There  is  now  more  than  ever  before,  the  need  of  our  homes 
being  kept  in  order,  families  working  unitedly  and  family  records 
being  kept.  Millions  of  men  have  been  called  to  the  great  be- 
yond in  the  great  world  war,  many  of  whom  have  never  heard 
the  gospel  of  Christ,  leaving  behind  them  their  preparatory 
work  for  receiving  the  gospel,  to  be  done  vicariously.  Unnum- 
bered mothers  have  died  of  pestilence  or  been  widowed  by  war, 
leaving  their  families  to  be  reared  by  those  outside  their  home 
circle. 
Are  we  ready  for  this  extra  work? 
Are  our  houses  in  order? 
How  shall  they  be  placed  in  order? 
By  mobilizing  forces  and  bringing  families  to  a  unity  of 
purpose  and  effort  for  that  which  is  yet  to  come  and  for  the 
work  that  there  is  to  do. 
Are  parents  sensing  their  responsibilities  and  covenants  made 
to  this  end? 
While  trying  to  establish  a  League  of  Nations  let  us  bear 
in  mind  that  united  families — families  who  know  the  law  of 
obedience,  form  the  basis  of  united  nations. 
Are  Latter-day  Saint  mothers  fully  awake  to  their  duties 
as  heads  of  families,  to  meet  all  needs  now  at  this  time,  when 
all  forces  available  are  required  to  make  the  necessary  prepara- 
tion for  the  coming  events  of  which  the  prophets  have  spoken? 
Families  can  be  formed  into  great  forces  for  good  by  organ- 
ization. Great  treasures  of  knowledge  and  power  lie  hidden 
and  ready  to  be  brought  out  by  close  association  of  families — by 
family  organization  and  efifort.  Of  course  a  family  is  a  recog- 
nized organization,  but  if  an  organization  is  not  active  it  will 
die,  and  many  Latter-day  Saint  heads  of  families  are  failing  to 
bring  out  the  powers  of  their  own  family  circle,  that  would  mean 
much  to  the  children  individually  as  well  as  to  the  family  as  a 
unit.

276  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
Family  meetings  in  the  homes  have  been  suggested  by  the 
head  of  our  Church  as  a  unity  producing  medium.  These  meet- 
ings would  crystallize  the  family  organization  and  assist  mate- 
rially in  all  branches  of  education,  and  both  parents  and  children 
would  find  this  to  be  a  wonderful  system  of  development.  There 
is  nothing  that  children  delight  in  quite  so  much  as  to  have  their 
parents  get  down  to  their  world  and  be  students  with  them.  There 
should  be  a  family  meeting  held  at  regular  intervals  at  which 
mjceting  each  member  of  the  family  would  be  expected  to  attend. 
If  any  member  is  absent,  his  letter  should  be  there. 
The  plans  and  methods  of  conducting  such  meetings  are 
many  and  varied,  and  heads  of  families,  by  a  little  careful  thought 
and  consideration,  should  be  best  able  to  make  the  plan  and  live 
to  that  which  would  suit  their  own  family  needs  best.  A  simple 
suggestive  outline  follows : 
Let  the  father  act  as  president  with  mother  as  his  counselor ; 
a  member  of  the  family  as  secretary  and  treasurer,  another  mem- 
ber as  chorister  and  the  young  boys  act  as  deacons. 
Procure  a  good  large  record  book  for  the  minutes  and  have 
the  secretary  carefully  record  all  minutes  and  important  items 
concerning  the  meetings  under  the  name  ,of  the  Home  meetings  of 
the  (father's  name)  family. 
Deacons  prepare  the  room  in  readiness  for  the  meeting.  All 
m.embers  should  be  clean  and  in  proper  condition  to  attend  a 
meeting  and  the  meeting  be  carried  on  with  dignity  and  perfect 
order,  though  not  tense  and  formal. 
Father  always  presides  but  each  member  in  turn  may  be 
appointed  to  conduct  the  meetings  or  even  be  responsible  for  the 
program  and  success  of  the  meeting  which  he  has  been  appointed 
to  conduct. 
There  should  be  a  free  and  happy  spirit  and  the  best  way  of 
assuring  this  is  to  assemble  asking  Divine  guidance  just  as  our 
Church  organizations  do,  for  the  Lord  has  said  where  two  or 
three  are  assembled  in  his  name,  they  shall  have  his  Spirit  to 
direct  them.  Opportunities  are  afforded  each  member  of  the 
family  including  father  and  mother,  to  ofifer  appropriate  prayers 
for  opening  and  closing,  learning  to  select  appropriate  ,songs  and 
in  short,  learning  to  "do  things"  appropriately  and  well,  without 
fear. 
Unnumbered  subjects  of  interest  may  be  introduced  by  the 
m.embers  in  their  turn,  or  some  systematic  study  pursued.  Paul 
said  "search  the  Scriptures,  arid  prove  all  things  and  hold  fast  to 
that  which  is  good."  This  would  surely  be  good  advice  for  pur- 
suance of  a  family  organization. 
The  meetings,  furnish  an  ideal  place  and  condition  for  par- 
ents to  get  close  to  the  children  and  teach  tactfully  and  force-

GUIDANCE  OF  CHILDREN. 
277 
fully  as  well  as  gracefully,  the  many  lessons  that  have  to  be  taught, 
and  a  great  amount  of  individual  teaching  can  be  done  away 
with.  B}^  making  each  member  in  turn  responsible  for  the  meet- 
ing and  allowing  him  to  conduct  that  meeting,  he  will  learn  to 
love  the  work  and  if  sufficient  variety  is  introduced  the  meet- 
ings will  never  become  tiresome. 
The  teachings  need  not  be  all  of  a  religious  nature,  although 
as  interest  becomes  stimulated  it  will  invariably  be  found  that
