WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF
NURSES.
	The Presidency and General Board of the
Relief Society announce that the next Relief
Society School of Nurses taught under their
direction will commence Monday, September
20, 1909, and continue eight months in Salt
Lake City- Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be
the instructor. It is requested that the
Stake Presidents will at once consult with
their Ward Presidents for the purpose of see
lecting intelligent, bright and energetic young
women of good moral character to take this
course in nursing.
	In recommending this course in nursing
given through the Relief Society, it should
be remembered that the students graduating
will have the privilege of paying for their
tuition with their work among the needy, and
should any of t[-]ose coming from a distance
desire to gain some practical experience in
Salt Lake City before returning to their
homes, or at any time, the General Super-
intendent will take pleasure in helping them
to do so.
	The tuition for the course in nursing will
be $10.00 and it is expected that the Relief
Society organization in each Ward will pay

[Column 2]
the tuition fee for their representative, al-
though any student who wishes to pay the
tuition herself may do so if willing to accept
and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract
a copy of which follows:
CONTRACT.
	In consideration of obtaining instruction
free in the Relief Society Nurse School, I
promise to answer all calls mads upon me
by the Superintendent of Relief Society
Nurses, or acting Superintendent where I
live, to give forty days charity nursing when-
ever required, and to nurse for whatever re-
muneration that may be designated by said
Superintendent, or acting Superintendent,
for the term of one year after graduation,
and I also agree to consult my Superinten-
dent in relation to all cases of nursing in
which I engage.
	Those who do not wish to sign this con-
tract may attend the school by paying the
regular fee of $50.00.
	Homes, where the students may assist
with the work for their board and room, can
always be furnished with good Mormon fam-
lies.
	We sincerely trust the members of the Re-
lief Society realize the value of this course
to young ladies as a part of their education.
	The cost of books will be $3.00 to $5.00.
For further particulars write to Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beatie; 55 North, West Temple Street,
Salt Lake City,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Gen'l Sec'y.
PHEBE Y. BEATIE,
Chairman R. S. School of Nurses.
EMMA A. EMPEY,
Gen'l Supt. of Graduated Nurses.


