LAURA M. HYDE MINER.
Of all the virtues that unite to frame,
The lofty column reared to Duty's name
Whose summit pencils on the glowing sky
The deeds of those whose names refuse to die,
O’er-crowning all in triumph of device
Is woman's life of love—Self-sacrifice.
O. F. W.
	The news of the demise of Sister Miner
came with a sudden shock to her friends of
former days, those who had known her in-
timately but almost lost sight of her for the
last few years, yet who loved her s[-]ill and
held her in the ties of sacred friendship.
Such women as Laura Miner are as scarce
as pearls; she was a jewel so to speak, full
of intelligence and rich in wisdom, a woman
of excellent judgment, and superior ability.
Her nobility of soul was unquestionable,
and when one can say of her that she pos-
sessed all the virtues of a true Saint of God,
and was eminently qualified to minister in
holy temples, it is the highest encomium
one can receive. Sister Miner officiated in


[Column 1]
the Logan Temple for many years and had
been greatly beloved by her co-laborers.
	Laura H. Miner was a valuable member
of the Board of Directors of the General Re-
lief Society for about seven or eight years,
continui[-]g on the Board sometime after she
moved to Logan, although it was incon-
venient for her to attend meetings. She was
also a member of the Reaper's Social and
was with us at the first meeting when the
name was de[-]ided upon and colors were
chosen, and took part in the literary and
social exercises.
	Sister Miner was a brilliant conversation-
alist, a rare quality in women, a great reader
and good story-teller; she was a writer of
merit of both prose and poetry although
she only occasionally allowed anything writ-
ten by her to appear in print. She was a
woman of culture and fine manners, and of
broad mind and liberal views, genuine and
true to the heart's core; a woman with whom
it was uplifting to have social intercourse,
and fitted to shine in any place at home or
abroad.
	Laura Marinda Hyde was the daughter of
Apostle Orson Hyde, one of the first Quorum
of Apostles of the early days of the Church,
and of Marinda N. Johnson Hyde one of the
most distinguished women of her time; with
the environment of such a home in early
life, she had advantages in education and
home training that carefully prepared her
for wife and motherhood, even though during
those early years of her girlhood the Latter-
day Saints were not in circumstances to af-
ford higher education for their children, be-
ing driven hither and thither, until they
reached these mountain vales.
	Laura was the eldest daughter of her pa-
rents and was born in Kirtland, Ohio, May
21, 1837, she was married to Aurelius Miner
since known as Judge, then a rising young
lawyer fresh from college, May 30, 1859,
a very beautiful and accomplished young
girl, as the writer well remembers.
	Her children now living. (the first born, a
boy, died in infancy) are Dr. David O. Miner
of Nephi, Utah; Laura Elvira, wife of John
McDonald. Jr., of this city; Lavilla, wife of
Wallace Fenton; another son, Frederick
William Miner, Miss Alice Winnefred Miner,
Lillian, wife of Bert Slusser; Florence, wife
of Alvin D. Thompson; Idala, the youngest,
now the wife of J. E. Shepherd.
	Sister Miner leaves beside her own chil-
dren six daughters and two sons; thirteen
grandchildren who deeply mourn her great
loss to them for she was a most affectionate
mother deep down in her very nature;
motherly to many besides her very own, who
also feel keenly her great loss.
	Her own brothers and sisters now living,
children of Orson and Marinda Hyde are
Emily Hyde Chase, very well known and
greatly admired in her palmy days, Alonzo
E. Hyde, and Zina Hyde Bull, all of this
City. Frank Hyde the eldest son died re-
cently and Delia Hyde Ellis, an uncommon-
ly brilliant woman, who died not long ago:
with children and grandchildren there are
living, quite a large number of Marinda
Johnson Hyde's posterity.
	The funeral services of this excellent
woman were held in the Seventeenth ward
chapel on Thursday, August 12, at 4 p. m.,
conducted by Bishop F. S. Tingey. The hall
was beautifully draped in white, by the Re-
lief Society, of which Sister Marinda Hyde
was President from its organization until her
death. The platform was banked with lovely
flowers and the casket in front covered with
flowers rare and delicate tokens of love and

[Column 2]
esteem, emblems of purity and devotion
from the many friends of the family.
	On the Stand were Presidents Joseph F.
Smith and John R. Winder, with other lead-
ing brethren including Hon. W. W. Riter.
The opening hymn was sung by the 17th
ward choir; Lizzie Thomas Edward leading
Soprano, taking part in singing "When first
the glorious light of truth," etc. Prayer was
offered by Seymour B. Young.
	Prof. Fred C. Graham sang in sympathetic
voice "Sometime, We'll Understand."
	Hon. W. W. Riter spoke in very eulogistic
terms of the many delightful qualities of the
deceased and of her staunch and intense
faith in the principles of the Gospel.
	President John R. Winder spoke briefly
of her faith, her purity of life and devotion
and her great works.
	President Joseph F. Smith, who had
known her from his childhood spoke of her
with much depth of feeling, and also of her
highly esteemed mother whom he had
known even more intimately, and preached
a thrilling discourse on the Gospel of life
and salvation.
	Sisters Edward and Winder sang "Who
are these arrayed in w[-]ite." Benediction
was offered by Elder Duncan McAllister and
the casket was borne from the hall followed
by her relatives and friends to its last resting
place on the hillside.
	The writer has known Laura Hyde Miner
from the days of Nauvoo until now, lived very
near her for years on the Whitney corner,
and has always held her very dear as com-
panion, and friend.


