			EMMA J. McVICKER.

		London, July 18th, 1909,
			Ivanhoe Hotel.

Dear Sister Wells:—
	’Tis bright and beautiful this Sunday
morning something unusual in London al-
though we have had exceptional weather
ever since we arrived a week ago.
	The four daughters in company of Dr.
Ralph Richards, Thad. Hammond and Elder
Barnes have gone in a Buss to White Chapel,
this morning. I wanted to write to you and
this is my only opportunity. The young
men are coming back to dinner, and then we 
are all going to the Mission House to church
this evening, where we will hear Brother
Hammond speak, and President Rushton
has arranged for me to see and talk to the
sisters.
	We are having a most instructive and in-
teresting trip. Cook’s men have prepared
our course of travel, arranged our sight see-
ing with a competent guide, our hotels, and
in fact every thing for our comfort and 
benefit.
	While in Dublin we were taken for a drive
all over the city, and we were at Lord Aber-

[Column 2]
deen’s country place, saw his picture and the
seat he occupied in the Irish House of Par-
liament, or Legislative Assembly, the church
he and his Lady worship in, they are greatly
beloved by the common people in Ireland.
We saw the monuments, of O’Connor, and
Wellington. We were in Dublin, Art Gal-
leries, etc.
	We went to Killarney from Dublin, went 
on all the beautiful Lakes, in row boats,
visited Kate Karney’s Cottage, on horse
back, drove back to Lake Hotel by coach,
were in Cork two days, bought linen in Bel-
fast, saw them manufacture it from the spin-
ning to where it is bleached and ready for
sale.
	In London we have attended Grand Ope-
ra, seen the best troup in England play—
Sheridan’s wonderful “School for Scandal.”
Went to Westminster Abbey, St. Pauls Ca-
thedral, The House of Lords and Commons,
Art Galleries, “Wallis Collection,” London
Tower, and London’s Bridge. The Thames
River and Waterloo Bridge, Windsor Castle,
Canterbury, Oxford, Leamington, Warwick,
Stratford-on-Avon, the home of Shakespeare,
the house, the school he attended or rather
schoolhouse, the church in which he is 
buried, his garden spot, his monument, etc.
The fine stores, and tomorrow we go to the 
other great College Cambridge.
	The British Museum is a most wonderful
place. We are going to the English Lake-
district on the 21st, and will sail from Queens-
town to Norway on the 27th for a twelve
days cruise; will meet President Lund’s party
perhaps. We have never been ill one mo-
ment except for one day and one night,
while in a dense fog crossing the Ocean. We 
could not possibly be better or happier, ex-
cept if we had all our loved ones, and our 
dear friends with us. We will take a drive
to Hyde Park and Buckingham Palace this
afternoon before going to Church.
	Dear Sister, I do hope, you, Sister Smith,
and all the sisters keep well, give the di-
rectors all my love and best wishes. I wrote
to Sister Smith from Edinburgh. We have
secured our passage home and will sail from 
Naples on the 5th of October, but will not
reach Salt Lake until November 1st or later.
	If you could write to the Swiss Mission
House, I could get your letter and would so
appreciate one. So much comfort I have
taken from the dear little book “Fear Not.”
The elders say Brother and Sister Penrose
went on to the Continent with President A.
H. Lund and party.
	Please tell Sister Beatie that we were in 
Dublin two days and two nights, had plenty
of time to have visited with her son, but
could not find his address in the Pens, nor
at our Hotel Directory. She should have 
given us his address, for we did not know
that it was not one of the mission head-
quarters, and she did.
	I tell you the boys over here are glad to 
see us and come and have a meal at our
hotel with us, and we are much delighted
to have them.
	God bless you, Sister Wells, my husband
and daughters join with me in kind regards.
Excuse my long and disconnected letter for 
I simply could not write less.
		Affectionately,
