	HON. JOHN HENRY SMITH.
Who cordially welcomed the visitors in the
name of a people who, loved liberty and ex-
tended the hand of fellowship and love to
people of all nations and creeds. He said,
“we have noble men and women among us,
who delight to greet you;” and he, hoped
that reciprocal pleasure and good will
would attend this auspicious occasion; he
referred to the people who founded this
commonwealth as from all nations and near-
ly every language having representatives in
the state.
	Miss Emily Janes President of the Nation-
al Council of Great Britain was the first
to respond to the welcome. She said in part
that in crossing the American continent from
the Atlantic to the Pacific she had found
nothing more striking than that in the desert
through which she had just passed and this
beautiful city. She rejoiced that the people
of these localities were being drawn together
in the association of the great national and
international Councils; the journey had not
been so much a lesson in the achievements
of industry and art, as of the oneness of
humanity. In closing Miss Janes expressed
on behalf of the British Council appreciation
and gratitude to the women of Utah for their
warm welcome.
	Rabbi Charles Freund took for his toast
the “Jewish Idea of Woman”—and referred
to the sentiment prevailing among them,
that woman was the inspiration for all
things great and goo[-] and that any people
that held this ideal woman stood for a
high civilization, the nor of his remarks
were along this line of thought, and he
closed by wishing the delegation God-speed
on its homeward way with pleasant memo-
ries of the visit.
	Frau Marie Stritt President of the National
Council of Germany, after expressing thanks
for the warm hospitality, accorded the
party, and that a succession of wonders had
met them from shore to shore on their way
to the West, and that new wonders were
now meeting them on their way back; and
one of the most delightful experiences was
coming to Salt Lake where they met per-
sonal friends, some who had been at the
Congress in Berlin, and spoke of Mrs. Horne,
who is now in Seattle, who was pointed out
as a woman who had sat in Parliament,
(meaning the Legislature of Utah). Frau
Stritt expressed sincere thanks in behalf of

[Column 2]
the German delegation, she was most en-
thusiastic in her speech.
	Madamoiselle Popelin President National
Council of Belgium spoke very effectively
and after a few words in English and feel-
ing she could give freer expression to her
feelings, burst into eloquent utterance in
French; her enthusiasm regarding the sun-
set and the stars coming out one by one was
a scene she could never forget; they had
queried on the long dusty journey what
would compensate for their discomfort, Salt
Lake had generously answered that question
to every heart.
	Froken Kroeg of Norway, President of the
National Council of Norway said her special-
ity in speaking was suffrage, but in Utah
there was no chance for the women had won
it, she was instantly informed that the men
had given it—and Hon. John Henry Smith
told the ladies he was Chairman of the Con-
vention which made woman’s franchise pos-
sible in Utah.
	Baroness Ellen Von Platen representing
the Swedish Council of Women Spoke most
appreciatively of the welcome extended, and
specially of the musical program in the Ta-
bernacle; “she was sure where all were work-
ing for good purposes, harmony must be the
outcome.” The Swedish people here were
proud to have a woman of distinction and
title from their own country.
	Miss Fries of Holland was very humorous
in her little speech, of the trip across the
continent, and declared she was a better
dancer than speaker; and if she had her na-
tional costume she would rather dance then
try to speak; she alluded to the Dutch an-
cestry of American people and spoke with
pride of Roosevelt as a typical descendant
of Holland Dutch.
	The Marchesa Beamon Del Monte of Italy
spoke for the National Council of Italy, al-
luded in the most glowing terms to the sun-
set she had seen on the Great Salt Lake and
that it had never been surpassed by any she
had seen in Italy; she expressed great pleas-
ure in her visit and was enthusiastic on the
subject of the welcome given them.
	The program of toasts closed with a poem
by Ruth M. Fox, Vice-President of the Y.
L. N. M. I. A bringing into the stanzas the
motto of the Council “Lead Kindly Light.”
	The toastmistress expressed a fervent wish
that only pleasant memories should be taken
home by the visitors, and the hope of a safe
journey to their homes, and the gathering
closed with farewells—Committees accom-
panying the ladies to their train where final
farewells were exchanged.
	The great regret of the Committees and
guests was that there was so little time to
exchange greetings, there were many of the
guests from whom all wished to hear, but
lack of time rendered it impossible.
	Among those present the writer was most
anxious should he seen and heard were Miss
Marion B. Blackie and Miss M. M. Ander-
son of Scotland, Miss M. E. Creighton of
Carlisle, England, sister of the late Lord
Bishop of London, Miss Wilkinson of Eng-
land, Principal of Swanley Horticultural Col-
lege, Mrs.Willonghby Cummings of Toronto,
Canada, Miss Baelde President of the Natio-
nal Council of Holland, and Misses Van
Vorst Van Boost also of Holland. Mrs.
Leo Grindon of Manchester, England, a
woman well-versed in social science, and
who has published several dissertations on
Shakespeare’s plays, a lady of fine culture
and broad views on religious and social
questions.
	Miss Sadie American and her mother, and

[Column 3]
dear Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, and
dozens more with and without titles. Mrs.
Anna Hansen who represented the National
Council of Denmark declined to speak on
account of having taken cold, and of hoarse-
ness.
	These, celebrated women represented al-
most every phase of real human life, Woman
suffrage, Peace and Arbitration, White Slave
Traffic, Laws for Women Workers, Protec-
tive Work for children, Public Play Grounds,
Juvenile Courts, Municipal Government,
Women’s Activities in Trades and Professions,
Educational Ideas. Crusade against Tuber-
culosis and for Prohibition. These are only a
few of the subjects which they are studying
and have under discussion.
	There are 23 countries where National
Councils have been organized, and efforts
are in progress to organize National Coun-
cils in Turkey, Finland, Egypt, Russia and
the Argentine Republic.
	In the near future we will give a list of
the names of the women who honored the
citizens with their presence in Salt Lake City
on July 16 and 17, 1909. The occasion was
one never to be forgotten by those who par-
ticipated therein.
	The most honored guests from our own
city and from our own standpoint were Pre-
sident Joseph F. Smith and wife, and Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith of the National
Woman’s Relief Society affiliated with the
National Council of Women of the United
States and of which she is one of the Execu-
tive Committee of nine.
	At the Quinquennial of the International
Council in Toronto, Canada officers were
elected for the time of five years. The Coun-
tess of Aberdeen whose term of office had
expired was re-elected President, the Hon.
Cor. Sec’y Mrs. Maria M. Ogilvie Gordon
elected First Vice-President, Countess Spa-
lette Rasponi of Italy, Second Vice-President,
Frau Marianne Hainisch of Austria, Third
Vice-President, Mrs. Sanford of Canada,
Honorary Treasurer, Dr. Alexander Skogland
of Sweden, Recording Secretary, Dr. Alice
Salomon of Germany, Corresponding Secre-
tary.
	The National Council of the United States
in its Triennial held at Seattle, elected for
the ensuing term of three years, Mrs. Lillian
M. Hollister President; Mrs. Kate Waller
Barratt Vice-President, Mrs. M. Josie Nelson
Treasurer, Mrs. Flo. Jamison Miller Cor.
Sec’y, Dr. Emma E. Bower Rec. Sec‘y.


