LIFE IS WORTH THE LIVING.
Oh life is worth the living, from the cradle to the
	grave,
With all its light and shadow, if the spirit is but
	brave;
For the mystic web it weaveth, touched by
	memory’s magic spell,
Are picture's in soul chamber’s where the spirit
	loves to dwell.

Oh life is worth the living, for the sunshine and
	the dew,
The diamond dew that sparkles like a sweet
	thought pure and true.
For the little warbling song-birds in the treetops
	soaring high,
For the music of the breezes, so softly passing
	by.

Oh life is worth the living, for the little baby’s
	smile.
Its loving touch and prattle, the lingering hour’s
	bequile;
For the glow and warmth of youth time, life’s mys-
	tic fairy-land
For the pearl’s and gems that sparkle along its
	golden strand.

Oh life is worth the living, for fond parental
	love,
Type of that higher Parenthood, in our dear home
	above,
For the silver threads of friendship twining a
	cable strong,
For the touch of sweet humanity, in life’s un-
	numbered throng.

Oh life is worth the living, to know God lives on
	high,
That the spirit is immortal, and can never, never
	die,
To know that His great kingdom is built upon
	the Rock,
To stand against the wildest, the tempests fiercest
	shock.

Oh life is worth the living, for the wrecks along
	the shore,
Where the wild wave’s dash upon them, and the
	ships return no more,
For they are safely anchored, in the Heaven of
	the blest,
Where the wicked ceasefrom troubling, and the
	weary are at rest. 
							HOPE.


Hilda Stowe, a granddaughter of Harriet
Beecher Stowe, the author of “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” will make her debut on the profes-
sional stage next October. Miss Stowe has
had considerable experience as an amateur.
	The proposed new constitution for South
Africa turns over the control of school and
municipal affairs on which women hitherto
have had a vote, to Provincial Councils, for
which women cannot vote. Both Dutch
and British women are protesting vigorously.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		LYDIA ANN ALLEY WELLS.
	So many of the pioneer Saints have pass-
ed away of late that we who are left feel
very keenly the loss of their society and of
their living testimony of the divine mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It also
awakens in us many tender emotions and
vivid remembrances of days gone by, when
we passed through stirring scenes and ovents
together.
	One recalls at such times the beautiful
poem of Thomas Moore which expresses the
sentiment of many hearts, lonely because of
those who are no longer with us here.

“Oft in the stilly night,
	Ere slumbers chain has bound me,
Fond Memory brings the light 
	Of other days around me;
		The smiles, the tears,
		Of childhood’s years
	The words of love then spoken,
		The eyes that shone,
		Now dimmed and gone,
	The cheerful hearts now broken!
Thus in the stilly night
	Ere Slumber’s chain hath bound me.
Sad Memory brings the light
	Of other days around me.

When I remember all
	The friends thus link’d together
I’ve seen around me fall
	Like leaves in wintry weather
		I feel like one,
		Who treads alone
	Some banquet hall deserted,
		Whose lights are fled,
		Whose garlands dead,
	And all but he departed!
Thus in the stilly night,
	Ere Slumber’s chain has bound me,
Sad Memory brings the light
	Of other days around me.”

	So many dear friends have taken their de-
parture of late, to “that bourne from whence
no traveler returns,” that were it not for the
glorious light revealed from heaven, that has
given us an assurance of meeting our loved
ones again, it would be almost unendurable.
We, who believe and who know if we are
faithful to the end, we shall join them sooner
or later where there will be no more death
or sorrow but joy forevermore, ought not to
indulge in excessive grief, but “press on to-
ward the mark of the high calling, in Christ

[Column 2]
Jesus” that we may obtain the rest that re-
mains to those who endure unto the end.
	We cannot help missing those who are
near and dear it is only natural, yet we
would not call them back if we could; and
therefore we bow in submission with the
best grace possible, and try to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord, and not grieve the
Holy Spirit but cherish its divine influence,
and go on our way trying to bear all things
whatsoever experiences or chastenings come
to us.

“They are not lost; they are within the door
That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
And God Himself their Lord, and Judge and
		King.”

	We need not be forg[-]tful of those that go
away, there are many beautiful things to
cherish in the associations of the past, that
we are happier for remembering, that sweeten
our lives, as it were, and help us in our on-
ward way. The tenderness of the hours we
have spent together can never die out, we
may be absorbed in our daily pursuits but
ever and anon the past comes back to us
and we pause and listen and momentarily
recollection comes like the flash of a meteor
and is gone again.
	Our dear sister and friend of whom we
write has finished her mission here on earth
and has made her calling and election sure,
we verily believe; but it is our duty to re-
cord the life and works of a woman like Sis-
ter Lydia Ann Wells, born at a time when
the gospel was restored in the last dispensa-
tion, privileged to receive its teachings and
gather with the Saints in her youth.
	Sister Wells comes of good Puritan ances-
tors, who came across the ocean in 1834.
The Alleys settled in Lynn, Mass., and the
Symonds, her mother’s family in Salem,
Mass., the same year. George Alley and
Mary Symonds were married in Sept. 15, 1822.
(The first child was Margaret, a daughter,
who subsequently when a beautiful young
woman, became the wife of Brigham Young;
she was the mother of two children, a
daughter and a son, the daughter is well-
known here, Mrs. Evelyn Davis; the son,
Mahonri married Miss Agnes McIntosh and
there were three children; the father died in
1884; one of the sons, Mahonri Young, is
now quite a famous artist and sculptor of
whom Utah is justly proud today.)
	Lydia Ann, the subject of this sketch was
the second child of these goodly people; she
was born on New Year’s day 1828 in Lynn,
Essex Co., Mass. When she was a little
girl, in 1830, her parents moved to Salem,
her mother’s former home, and it was there
in 1841, the Gospel found them. The Elders
were Erastus Snow and Benjamin Winches-
ter; the Alleys were believers at once, and
were baptized in 1842 and started for Nau-
voo the same year. They were late in start-
ing however and ice in the Mississippi
river hindered their progress and they were
obliged to stop first at Alton and again at
Quincy, Illinois, before reaching Nauvoo,
the gathering place of the Saints at that
time.
	Sister Lydia Ann was baptized in 1844


[Column 1]
when sixteen years of age by Elder Erastus
Snow in the Mississippi river at Nauvoo, and
was confirmed a member of the Church by
Elder Amasa Lyman although she had a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel when
she heard the first Elders preach in Salem,
Mass. Concerning the martyrdom of the
Prophet and Patriarch, she writes in her re-
cord.
	“I had the privilege of seeing the Prophet
Joseph and listening to his voice and to the
words of inspiration that fell from his lips
shall never forget them they are as vivid
to my mind as if it were but yesterday they
were uttered. I can testify of his divine
mission and know for a surety that he was
a Prophet of the Most High God. I was
there at his martyrdom, and shared the
great sorrow with the people of God, I
looked upon their faces in death and shall
never forget them.”
	Brother and Sister Alley had a very nice
comfortable home in Nauvoo which they
left at the time of the exodus with their
family, except Margaret who had left with
the first company, and moved across the
Mississippi in the summer of 1846, and
camped first on the bank of the river, then
moved about three miles; where there was
an encampment of the Saints, the mother
was very sick but finally recovered through
faith and the gift of healing, and the family
moved on to Farmington, Iowa, after-
wards to Bonaparte; there Brother Alley
stayed a while making preparations for the
longer journey westward. The family were
nearly all sick with fever and ague, some-
times, one could wait on the rest; Brother
Charles Rich persuaded Brother Alley to
leave the large quantity of flour he had
bought to take with him, for the poor Saints
that were there by the wayside so destitute
and he moved on with his teams as far as
Mt. Pisgah, and in the late fall arrived at
Winter Quarters, on the West side of the
Missouri river, the family were all better
and quite enjoyed while there the rest and
quiet once again being free from mobs and
persecution.
	In the spring of 1848, in the company of
President Brigham Young, the Alley family
started for the valley and arrived here on
the twentieth of September, 1848, and have
resided here ever since, they settled in the
Eighth ward where they continued to reside
until the death of Brother and Sister Alley
and their family lived there until very re-
cently.
	Lydia Ann Alley was married to General
Daniel H. Wells April 4, 1852. The mar-
riage ceremony was performed by President
Brigham Young. Her married life has been
a very happy one, although many changes
have taken place during the long years since
that event. The children born to them are
Miss Catharine Wells, Mrs. Mary M. W.
Whitney and Louis R. Wells, all of this
city the grandchildren, Murray Wells Whit-
ney, and Wendall Webb Whitney, and Louis
R. Wells’ children are Daniel Hanmer and
Horace Hanson four grand sons, these with
many others of the Wells family and the
Alley family, her brothers and sisters and
their posterity, all feel the loss here of one
who was a stalwart among them. Three of
the children of Sister Wells passed away in
infancy a beautiful little girl Lucy Ann died
when ten months old a boy named Wilford
Woodruff who died at the age of three
months also Arthur Deming also died when
three months old.
	Sister Wells was a public spirited woman

[Column 2]
energetic and industrious in the extreme,
and though a devoted wife and mother al-
ways found time for public duties and work.
In the year 1868, when the local Relief Soci-
ety was organized in the Thirteenth ward in
this city, she became a member and was
soon after appointed a teacher; in 1873 she
was selected as second counselor to Presi-
dent Rachel Grant, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, now General President over the So-
ciety in all the world was at that time Presi-
dent Grant’s first Counselor. In 1882, Sister
B. W. Smith moved to the Seventeenth
ward and Sister Wells was made First Coun-
selor. Sister Lydia Ann Wells was chosen
to preside over the Primary Association in
the Thirteenth ward in 1882, and held the
position five years. Sister Wells was also
counselor to Sister Ellen C. Clawson, Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of Salt Lake
Stake in 1882, and filled that office until
Sister Clawson’s death, and when Sister
Camilla Cobb was selected to fill the vacan-
cy caused by the demise of Sister Clawson,
she chose Lydia Ann Wells for her First
Counselor. She held that office until the
division of Salt Lake Stake in 1901, when
all the stake officers were released. In all
these positions for more than thirty years,
Sister Wells was untiring in her labors of
love, a wise counselor, natural leader and a
woman of excellent judgment, one who al-
ways stood for justice, and maintained her
dignity at all times and on all occasions,
with perfect modesty, yet with that tenacity
of purpose which is necessary in any impor-
tant undertaking in fact she was a woman
of great force of character.
	When the sisters of the Church were se-
lected to labor in the Salt Lake Temple, her
name was among those who were chosen
and she continued regularly in the work
until her serious illness. She rejoiced greatly
in her Temple work, and appreciated the
work of the redemption of the dead as much
as it is possible for any woman to do. She
had been privileged to go with her husband
to the St. George, Logan and Manti Temples
and expressed herself most happy in having
these great privileges.
	What the loss of such a woman is to her
immediate family it is impossible to tell in
words hut there is no alternative, it must
be borne and family life must still go on
with those who remain. Sister Wells death
was not unexpected, she had been ailing
some months, and suffered severely during
the last week. She passed into a peaceful
sleep at 11:20 a. m., Friday, August 6. She
breathed her last surrounded by all her im-
mediate family in the gentle sweet influence
of the home she so dearly loved.
	Everything that willing hands and loving
hearts could do had been done and finally
when all was over for her, she was daintily
clothed in spotless linen robes of white,
with the softest white vail that delicate
hands could prepare, and laid in a beautiful
white casket, like a bride adorned for her
husband. The peace and calm that shone
in her face was lovely to behold.
	The funeral services were held at the home
323, Second Ave. Bishop George Romney
presided, the opening hymn was “Farewell all
earthly honors,” rendered by a quartett,
prayer was offered by Elder A. H. Ivins, then
Prof. Horace S. Ensign sang very touching-
ly the beautiful hymn “Resignation.” Pre-
sident John R. Winder paid an eloquent
tribute to the honorable upright life of the
deceased, referred to her faithful labors in
the Temple, her humility and her many ex-

[Column 3]
cellent qualities and faithfulness as a Saint
in very deed.
	Bishop George Romney referred more
especially to her home life and duties in the
ward and her excellent example, and refer-
red to his great respect for the family.
	Sister Emma Ramsay Morris sang “O,
My Father” with deep and tender expression
and in fine voice.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant paid a glowing
tribute to the memory of Sister Wells and
made reference to the consistency of her life
in all its varied phases. He read from the
76th section of the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants, concerning those who abide in
the faith.
	President Joseph F. Smith delivered an
eloquent and powerful discourse upon the
change from death unto life and referred to
the resurrection of the Savior and touched
upon many spiritual truths that had been
revealed through the Scriptures, and again
brought to our attention through the light
of the Gospel in our own day.
	The closing hymn “Who are these arrayed
in white” by the Temple choir was very im-
pressive. Benediction by Elder Nephi Y.
Schofield.
	The floral offerings were abundant and
beautiful from the many loving friends and
relatives, roses, sweet peas and carnations
and the elegant mantle of delicate roses and
sweet peas that lay over the casket was most
exquisite. The pall bearers were the sons
and son in law of President Wells and
a long line of carriages followed the hearse
to the cemetery. The grave was solemnly
dedicated by Apostle Orson F. Whitney and
the last sad rites were over for one dearly
beloved.

“We, too, shall come to the river side,
		One by one
We are nearer its waters each eventide,
		One by one.
We can hear the noise and the dash of the stream
Now and again, through our life’s deep dream.
Sometimes the floods all the banks overflow,
Sometimes in ripples and small waves go,
		One by one.”
								E. B. W.


