SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	AUGUST, 1909.


[Column 1]
“OUR INLAND SEA.”
	Alfred Lambourne’s new book with the
above title, is a study in nature and in lan-
guage as distinctive as its subject is from
ordinary common-place matters. Mr. Lam-
bourne is original in all that he undertakes
although some people maintain that orig-
nality is a myth, but if one admits there be
such a thing, he is certainly original in his
work.
	To attempt to give one an idea of the
book in a paragraph or two is quite impossi-
ble, it will bear reading over and over, and
the writer has not yet read it once consecu-
tively
	Our inland sea is a wonder in itself, it al-
ways has been a sort of a mystery and when
one explains its constituents and dissects it,
so to speak, it detracts from the mythical
charm that makes it, in a sense, poetical
and classical.
	Mr. Lambourne’s book is a classic.
Years hence it will be read with enthusiasm
by classical scholars of that wonderful day
in the future, we look forward to with such
laudable pride. The book ought to be in
every great library in the world.
	Ever since we came to Utah Great Salt
Lake has had an indescribable fascination
about it for some of us, that no other place
in these mountain fastnesses possesses, and
it is not very remarkable that it should
seem so, when one pauses and considers,
there is nothing like it, or even similar, in
this Western Hemisphere.
	But to return to the book, it is really a
poem. The author says it is paragraphs
from a diary (we had never yet heard of a
poetical diary). However, we must believe
what Mr. Lambourne says about his diary.
	The descriptions are viv[-]d, particularly so,
startling, even to one who has a powerful
imagination. If only we [-]ould have pre-
sented a copy to each of those distinguished
ladies who were entertained at Saltair rec-
ently, what a trophy it would have beer to
carry away from America.
	Dear America, has not yet filled its mis-
sion of wonders to the world, many [--]ings
are yet to come to pass, many hidden [--]hs
have already been unfolded by gre[---]d
wise men, many mysteries explaine[-],(but
this is wide of the mark) the book is the ob-
ject now under consideration. It is unique
in its descriptions of the beauty and grand-
eur of the dead sea, and its islands, but the
sea itself is greater than the book, and
makes one feel how incompetent man is to
reproduce with pen, or tongue, or brush that

[Column 2]
which God has made and formed and set in
its proper place. Yet we are glad of the
book, it is glorious to read such magnificent
descriptions, and one thrills with emotion
in contemplating some of the author’s glow-
ing symphonies of rhythmical beauty. And
yet we repeat, the dead sea itself with its
picturesque setting is impossible to put in
any book, by the greatest author, as we be-
hold it in all its phases and surroundings.
	We commend the book to the scholarly
men and women of the world, it is worth
more than double its money value, it is a
book that will outlive its contemporaries,
but the inland sea and its setting in these
mountain vales has been and is an inspira-
tion of inestimable value to those who be-
hold the infinite glory of the handiwork of
the Almighty, the Ruler and Author of the
universe.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL DELEGATES
	The foreign delegates that had been in
attendance at the Quinquennial sessions of
the International Council in Toronto, Can-
ada, came through Salt Lake on their re-
turn trip. The National Woman’s Relief
Society was notified beforehand and request-
ed to call on other organizations affiliated
with the National Council of Women of
the United States and make preparations to
entertain the distinguished party on their
arrival; accordingly the Young Ladies’ N. 
M. I. A. was notified, as these two are the
largest societies. The Maccabes, Woman’s
Relief Corps, Jewish Council, Woman’s Suf-
frage Council and National Christian
League, local aocieties, were also notified,
seven organisations; committees from these
came together and eleeted a chairman, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, of the Relief Society, and a secre-
tary, Miss Ann M. Cannon, of the
Young Ladies, and commenced to discuss
matters relative to a plan of entertainment.
There was a feeling of unity of effort and
harmony prevailing, and as time went on
plans were suggested and were carefully con-
sidered. The time designated in the letter
received for the party to remain, was so
short (from 6:45 p. m. to 8:15 a. m.) that it
was difficult to determine what was best. The
letter stated that the ladies would have din-
ner on the train and would only wish for a
light luncheon, etc., etc.
	The unanimous conclusion arrived at after
much deliberation, was to meet the ladies at
the station, have a musical recital at the
Tabernacle if possible, take them to Saltair,
partake of luncheon there, and those who
desired to try the bathing do so; meantime,
while seated at table to have the Governor
of the state, or the Mayor of the city, or some
prominent citizen welcome them to the
Mecca of the West, and then to have some
responses from the foreign delegates.
	At a regular meeting of the committees,
when there were representatives from each
of the seven organlzations present, Mrs. E.
B. Wells was elected toastmistress and also
Chairman of the Committee on Invitation,
and there seemed to be a perfect under-
standing of the matter.
	The day was looked forward to with great
expectations, as it was known it was a very
distinguished party, and naturally the ladies
directly interested in the entertainment were
anxious to make the affair as perfect a suc-
cess as possible.
	The ladies arrived an hour earlier than
the schedule time, and were escorted to the
tabernacle where through the courtesy of

[Column 2]
the First Presidency of the Church, a fine
musical program was rendered by Professor
Edward P. Kimball, after which Elder B. H.
Goddard very kindly explained in an inter-
esting manner, facts connected with the
building of the famous Tabernacle and the
great Temple.
	The party, in charge of members of the
Committee, were taken in automobiles, car-
riages and cars to Saltair depot, and were
soon en route for the famous Dead Sea of
America. The sunset was magnificent and
was greatly enjoyed by the ladies, and after
arriving, those who wished to do so, availed
themselves of the opportunity of a bath in
this renowned and unique inland sea,
whose strange beauty with its glorious sun-
sets is entrancing to the beholder, especially
to one poetical by nature, and invariably re-
minds one of Moore’s exquisite poem:

“How dear to me the hour when daylight dies,
And sunbeams melt along the silent sea;
For then sweet dreams of other days arise,
And memory breathes its vesper sigh to thee.
And as I watch the line of light that plays,
Along the smooth wave to the burning West,
I long to tread that golden path of rays,
And think ’twould lead to some bright isle of
	rest.”

	There was very little opportunity for con-
sultation with the guests to ascertain from
them what would be most pleasing, and a
word here and there or a partial introduc-
tion, very informal, was all those in charge
could make possible.
	Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, who had met
some of the delegates in Toronto while at-
tending the Council, went to Ogden to meet
them, accompanied by Mrs. Annie Wells
Cannon, and they did whatever was possi-
ble to help with introductions and to make
these guests of honor feel how delighted the
citizens of Utah were to have such celebrated
women guests of our city. Salt Lake was
honored in receiving these wonderful women
from so many countries, speaking different
languages, and their visit to America was
an event such as has not transpired before in
history. The “Toronto papers said they were
the most distinguished women from all parts
of the globe, and they were representative
women of the countries from which they
came.” They not only represented coun-
tries but subjects of vital importance to
[-]umanity at large, for the uplifting and bet-
terment of all mankind. They were not
traveling about for pleasure, but to help the
great work of progress in various directions
to reach all parts of the great w[-]rld. These
grand women are aiding in the crusade
against all forms of vice and evils, and spread-
ing enlightenment abroad, and among those
who sit in darkness. Their attainments on
grave educati[---] scientific questions
are very great [---] [--]ey are endeavoring to
solve the most [---]cult problems of real life;
and many of t[--]m have already rendered
valuable service various capacities. They
are not only women of thought, but of ac-
tion, helping to move the world forward.
	Perhaps some of those who saw them,
considered very little about the great work
these tired travelers were engaged ln doing. 
There was neither time nor opportunity for
communication with them or even momen-
tary conversation—in this respect the affair
was very unsatisfactory, but even had there
been a formal reception in some large hall,
there would have been scarcely time to more
than shake hands. It was a large party, and
take it all in all, the committee were
obliged to submit to conditions as they de-


[Column 1]
veloped after reaching Saltair. Three long
tables for the luncheon were arranged on the
lower floor of the pavilion decorated with
sweet peas and late roses in every shade of
color, and looked very inviting and artistic.
	The toastmistress, in opening her remarks,
referred to the brilliant company assembled,
representing many countries, and languages,
and repeated a stanza of Longfellow which
seemed an appropriate setting:

“Ships that pass in the night and speak each other
	in passing,
Only a signal shown, and a distant voice in the
	darkness.
So on the ocean of life, we pass and speak one
	another,
Only a look and a voice, then darkness again and a
	silence.”

	Mrs. Wells’ welcome was genuine, and
she betrayed a depth of emotion in speaking
of the honor of entertaining such distin-
guished guests, and the sentiment of the peo-
ple of Utah desiring peace and good will to
all mankind—she announced to make the
address of welcome,
 
