[Column 1]
Indians. She was taken captive, but her
life was preserved. Told of the early his-
tory of the Church, which was very interest-
ing. Spoke of the way the people disregard
the Sabbath day. It should not be done;
we should keep God’s commandments and
keep the Sabbath day holy. We should live
for something besides pleasure.
	President Hannah A. Crosby was glad
and thankful for the testimony of our aged
sisters, we should value it beyond price.
Advised mothers to watch their children and
teach them the Gospel. Do not let them
run the streets nights, for there are so many
temptatious. Spoke of the missionaries and
their work, and of the word of wisdom.
	Dismissed by singing and benediction.
	The afternoon session of our conference
commenced by singing and prayer; contin-
ued by singing and minutes, etc.
	Sister Ella Cameron was the first speak-
er. Told of her trip to Salt Lake City to
attend the Young Ladies’ Mutual confer-
ence. It was well represented, from Cana-
da in the north to old Mexico in the south.
Had some very good instructions. Wished
all could live up to what we have heard.
Told of the companionship that should ex-
ist between mother and daughter. Home-
making is the duty of every mother, and
they should have happy homes.
	Sister Adair from Tropic Ward gave a
lecture on the life of our Savior. The first
miracle of our Lord and Savior at a mar-
riage-feast, where he turned water into
wine.
	Sister Rachel Wilson recited a piece en-
titled “The Amen Corner.”
	Brother William Cameron of Idaho was
glad to meet with the Relief Society. Asked
the Lord to bless all the sisters in their
noble work. Spoke of the training of our
children, keep them in good company.
Urged the sisters not to talk about each
other and try to pull others down; but try to
build each other up. “God bless all of the
sisters. Amen.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, President of
the Relief Society in all the world, and
other officers were sustained, also President
Hannah A. Crosby, and the Panguitch Stake
officers of the Relief Society.
	Conference was then adjourned for one
year. Closed by the choir singing ‘‘School
thy feelings, O my brother.,’ Benediction
Elder Leonard Sargent.
			SARAH D. DYRETT.
					Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE STAKE.
 	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Alpine Stake of Zion was held
at Pleasant Grove, July 17, 1908. President
Rebecca Strandring presiding.
	Our conference was favored with the at-
tendance of Sisters Ida Smoot Dusenberry
and Sarah J. Cannon of the General Board.
	After the usual exercises President Stand-
ring greeted the sisters and reported the
Stake in good condition, felt gratified with
the advancement of the work and the unity
of the sisters. “The Lord had a special pur-
pose in organizing this Society. It is for the
sisters to be helps to the brethren, but this
was only secondary; we were to save souls,
and to raise our children in the fear of the
Lord. The work of the Lord is growing and
we should endeavour to keep up to the
times.” Prayed for the spirit of the Lord
to dictate us at all times.
	Lehi, 1st ward, reported by President
Hannah P. Jones. Lehi, 2nd ward, by Presi-

[Column 2]
dent Kate Allred. American Fork, 1st ward,
President E. J. Durrant. American Fork,
2nd ward, President Sarah S. Chipman.
	The presidents all gave encouraging re-
ports. Meetings are fairly well attended and
teachers visit regularly. The lessons on
faith are well received. Have agreed to take
up a labor with those who neglect Sacra-
ment meetings.
	Song, “Star of Bethlehem,” by Pleasant
Grove Sisters.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was pleased to
meet the sisters of Alpine Stake, and to see
them stand up at roll call. Our organization
is so perfect that we have no need to pass
over our local officers to go to the head for
advice on any ordinary subject or business.
Parents should know all about their chil-
dren, and their affairs. Make home pleasant,
and encourage them in their Church work
and to be obedient to their parents and to
the priesthood. It takes parents all their
time to keep peace and order in their fam-
lies. Liked to know that the Society in
the wards had means on hand to help in
any emergency that might need help.
	Sister Dusenberry had been away from
home for some time, and felt to appreciate
her home and her religion more and more,
and felt the worth of her own people. Spoke
of an instance where a gentleman who stood
in the meeting of the Saints in New York
testified of the influence exercised on him by
being in contact with two Mormon elders,
mere boys. The influence of the Mormon
elders is a great attraction for people not of
our faith. Related several incidents of her
travels and experience among outsiders and
those opposed to our principles. Realized
that it is the actions and example of a per-
son that influences the people more than
their words. It is our lives that count, our
words amount to nothing comparatively.
There are many good people in the world,
and though they may be careless now, in
due time the truth will dawn upon them
and they will know that the Mormons are
honest and sincere and that they seek the
welfare of the people.
	President Stephen L. Chipman felt grati-
fied in hearing the reports and testimonies.
Noticed that few of the young women are
connected with this Society. We want more
help and it is necessary that the younger
women should be getting the experience to
fill these positions. Spoke of the Relief So-
ciety grain, thought the granaries should be
examined and made sound and good for the
reception of the new wheat. Spoke of can-
vassers who are around deceiving the peo-
ple, and warned the sisters to be careful
what they sign their names to, for these
agents are not reliable and we should be on
our guard.
	Meeting closed by singing and Benedic-
tion. Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session. Conference reas-
sembled at 2 p. m. President Standring
presiding.
	After the opening exercises President M.
E. Abel reported American Fork, 3rd ward.
President C. Thorne reported Lindon. Ellen
Jones Lehi, 3rd ward
	The reports were gratifying. The poor
are fed, the sick visited and sisters always
ready to respond to the calls made upon
them.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board was glad to hear of the good spirit
that exists in this stake. We should try to
be as good Latter-day Saints as possible;
had seen the Prophet Joseph Smith when
she was a small girl. We have been taught

[Column 3]
and counseled to live upright lives, and
where we have followed the counsel of those
placed over us, we have come out all right.
We should try to appreciate our blessings,
and while we have the opportunity let us be
kind to each other and not wait until it is
too late. Let us try to do as well as we
know how. Mothers have great responsibi-
lities and also many opportunities to learn
the gospel and many things necessary to our
advancement. May the Lord be ever good
to us.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry. ‘‘I used
to think that Relief Society work was only
for the older sisters, but as I have traveled
and visited the stake conferences, I have de-
cided that it was for the younger ones as
well. God can take the humblest of His
children, and make of them an instrument
to do His will. Our experiences are our
education, and more especially if we have
eyes to see and ears to hear. How good and
just the Lord is, He has not said to some,
you may have the light, you may have the
flowers, you may have the sunshine, but has
given all these beauties of nature to all of
us. They are all ours to enjoy. Let us
keep good cheer for everyone, speak a kind
word and often that will lift a load from the
saoulders of our friends. The only way to
grow is by doing good to others. May the
Lord give you a spirit of love, sympathy and
progression”
	A solo was rendered by one of the sisters.
	Brother James H. Clarke of the Stake
Presidency. You sisters are not here be-
cause of time you have to spare, but you are
here to do your duty, and to partake of the
spirit and influence of this conference. Our
minds are drawn away from our every day-
labors for a few hours, and our spirits are
directed to our Heavenly Father who organ-
ized this Church for the benefit of His chil-
dren. The law of tithing is given for our
temporal as well as our spiritual salvation.
Some think that all they need to live for is
this life, but I think we should live with the
thought that this life is to fit us for a future
state. We are here at school to get experi-
ence to prepare us for our future life. Let
us attain to as high a sphere as we can, for
there is an eternity to follow this life. Make
the duties of the Church a pleasure. Make
the paying of tithing a pleasure. This will
strengthen our faith because of the blessings
our Father returns to us. Convert your-
selves, convert your husbands to this law,
for it is as much a principle of the gospel as
baptism. Great responsibilities rests upon
us as fathers and mothers. Let us be care-
ful of the children God has given us. Let
us help each other and be mutual in this.
As we grow stronger and do our duty day
by day we are saved.
	Bishop John R. Hindley was struck with
the remark of the sisters in giving the re-
ports that they loved the work and the du-
ities placed upon them in the Relief Society.
If we can do this we can become a great
help to others as well as to ourselves. Our
young sisters do not realize what they are
missing. The blessings cannot be ours un-
less we work for them. The temporal part 
of our lives are crowding out the spiritual
part. Let us give more attention to the spi-
ritual things that will be ours in the future.
	Bishop Lewis was delighted with the sen-
timents expressed by the speakers. “Seek
first the kingdom of God, and all other
things shall be added unto you.” I often
wonder whether we do this to the extent
that we should. “There is no excellence
without labor,” and the Relief Society sis-


ters are not afraid of labor. May each of us
profit by the teachings of this conference.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Pre-
sident Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
				E. J. T. ROBERTS,
							Cor. Sec.


