[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS.
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS
	In perusing the pages of history, and in re-
counting events that have transpired in this
Church, one finds so much material to make
use of, that is hard to choose from and even
among the women, who in the earlier days
had not the opportunities for public life, that
those have had who were of a younger gen-
eration; yet one finds them great in the sphere
in which they moved, and among their as-
sociates and nobly great considering environ-
ment. One writer has said “great in small
things,” yet in looking into their history we
find that the great drama of life as enacted
in that early period has been full of stirring
events and sacrifices.
	In my mind’s eye I have a vivid picture of

[Column 2]
two young women, whom I met at a friend’s
house, soon after my arrival in Nauvoo; and
both of them (they were sisters) were parti-
cularly striking in appearance. They were
modest in manner, yet dignified, tall and
blooming with health, quite a contrast to
many (pale faces for it was an ague climate), I
might say to the majority of women, because
of their rosy lips and cheeks. The impres-
sion they made was of vigor, strength of
character, and reposefulness. They were
spoken of as the “Partridge girls,” and their
names Eliza and Emily, were linked together
with a sort of tone that indicated the closest
relationship. Afterwards coming in friendly
contact, I found them unlike in many re-
spects, though they harmonized well, and
were very fondly attached to each other.
These two young girls had as children passed
through many trying scenes of sacrifice and
danger, thrilling experiences, such as young
women now cannot appreciate nor perhaps
can any one, except when placed in like cir-
cumstances. Their parents had been well-
to-do people, who had in the early times of 
Western migration left comfortable homes
in New England, to go to the Western Re-
serve in Ohio, which was considered a land
of better facilities for making homes, than
the stony hills of their native state Massa-
chusetts.
	This young couple became acquainted
and married in Ohio. It was destiny no
doubt; they settled in Painesville, Geauga Co.,
Ohio, where they purchased land and built up
a home and had great hopes of educating their
children. This home was later on, a very
popular one among the little handful of early
believers in the Everlasting Gospel; and Ed-
ward Partridge the father of the two young
maidens mentioned, that I had met on that
auspicious day now far remote; was ordained
the first Bishop of the Church, and the family
were among the first converts in what seemed-
then “that far distant land.”
	Without going into family history though
well-authenticated as to descent; the writer
only desires to give her impressions of these
young women, as she knew them. There is
no doubt that the trying ordeals through
which one passes in childhood’s days have
a lasting effect upon the mind and character
as the years roll on.
	The persecutions in Kirtland, the more
terrible outrages, mobbings, drivings and
imprisonments in Missouri of fathers, break-
ing up of family ties, rendering children
homeless, necessarily, leaves its impress
upon the plastic minds of children, and as a
natural sequence upon the generations fol-
lowing.
	Soon after arriving in Nauvoo in conse-
quence of privations, imprisonment, and at-
tendant consequences, Bishop Partridge pas-
sed away, leaving his family destitute of a
home in that new region, and it fell to the lot
of the two older girls to be taken into the
family of the Prophet Joseph Smith, where
they lived for some time, members of that
hospitable household.
	It is a remarkable fact that whoever came
within the influence of the Prophet Joseph
partook more or lees of his spirit and became
imbued, as it were so strongly with his won-


[Column 2]
derful atmosphere that it entered into their
life, thus becoming part of their very exis-
tence. The association was of such a lofty
and sacred nature, that in yielding to his
teachings and ministrations, the tendency
towards his ideals became engrafted upon
their hearts. This has been noticable in
some instances, and the writer has in mind
two very powerful proofs of this impression-
ism.
	Be that as it may, there is no doubt that
both Eliza and Emily Partridge partook in
a large degree of the spirit and teaching of
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	They were earnest and devoted followers
of the principles taught and promulgated by
this great and holy man of God. They were
ready and willing to sacrifice all on the altar
of their faith. Firm as the rock of ages in
the principles of truth revealed through him
in this dispensation.
	The memory of all such holy women the
Latter-day Saints should cherish and honor.
	After the death of the Prophet the Saints
were expelled from their homes, and the be-
loved city and Temple of “Nauvoo the
Beautiful” was left behind, while the exiled
people wandered in the wilderness, until
they reached the promised land, the valley
of the Great Salt Lake.
	But I am digressing and touching on re-
miniscences instead of giving you pen pict-
ures of the women whose names have been
mentioned.
	Sister Eliza Maria Partridge Lyman was
a woman of uncommon natural ability and
spirituality; she had much force of character
and great fortitude and powers of endurance,
was able to cope with difficulties and to bear
the burdens of others. The heroic type, dis-
playing in her life the attributes of her Puri-
tanical ancestry largely developed. She was
a tower of strength to look upon, and in her
life displayed those virtues and characteris-
tics that shine forth and illumine the humb-
lest home, as well as adorn the palaces of
the great and the noble of the earth.
	This grand women did not shrink from
colonizing and doing frontier work wherever
she was called to go in connection with her
husband, and his family; and such a wife
and mother would in the natural course of
family life have sons, that would make their
way in the world of mankind as distinguished
from the common place masses of men, and
daughters as noble and pure as herself. Such
women as Eliza Partridge Lyman are likely
to have sons that will attain to meritorious
distinction. She was undoubtedly a woman
of destiny, she had the courage of a martyr,
and of one, who was not only ready to die
for an unpopular principle of her faith, but
to live for it, and to bear the ignominy and
slander of those who persecute and condemn
those of other faith, and know not why.
The names of these illustrious heroines who
heard the Prophet’s voice, and listened to
his teachings, making divine principle the
rule of their lives should be held in honor-
able remembrance by all Israel, and especi-
ally should the Daughters of Zion emulate
their virtues and follow their example.
Among those saintly women of the early
days in the Church whose lives have stood
for righteousness, and who have never
wavered, no matter how trying the ordeal,
we count as one of the very foremost the
name of E[-]iza Lyman.
	Eliza Maria Partridge Lyman, born April
20, 1820, in Painesville, Geauga Co., Ohio.
Died at Oak City, Millard Co., Utah, March
2, 1886.

[Column 2]
	Emily Dow Partridge Young, was also
one of the renowned women of the days of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. The children
of Brother and Sister Partridge imbibed in
childhood’s days, those pure principles of
the Gospel that grew up with them and
that have descended upon their posterity.
	One could not help feeling when in the
company of Sister Emily Young, that she was
a woman in whom one could repose implicit
confidence with entire safety. She was a
very handsome woman, one who made a
fine appearance even in homespun, both of
make and material. Industry with her
was a virtue, she was an early riser, and
active in all household pursuits, possessing
in a marked degree the Yankee character-
istic of thrift, and econonomical withal
making things go farther or last longer
than many of her associates. In the days
when everything was manufactured by hand
in the home, she was equal to the situation,
her carding, spinning, dyeing, and hand-
sewing, plain or fancy stitching, knitting,
darning, soap and candle making were all
of the very best, never, or rarely ever a
failure in any of of the various depart-
ments of the work of the primitive home;
neatness and order in its perfection in the
apartments of “Aunt Emily” Young,
whether in the log row, the Lion House,
or when occupying her own house later in
life. Like her illustrious sister she remem-
bered the terrible scenes enacted in Mis-
souri, and could relate them in private
conversation in a most graphic style, but
could never be induced to speak in public,
yet her friends and admirers were confident
she could have made a most interesting
public speaker. She certainly had much
to tell of her vivid experiences of the cir-
cumstances that transpired in her childhood
and youthful days, and of which she had
been an eye witness.
	Sister Young was finally persuaded to
write an Autobiograpdy which was pub-
lished in the Woman’s Exponent in 1885,
running through several numbers. Much
of this interesting sketch is devoted to the
changes and vicissitudes and jonrneyings
of the Church, and the persecutions of the
Saints, particularly of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and her own father, Bishop Ed-
ward Partridge and correspondence between
these two great men at that period of time.
	But it is not my object to rehearse these
things, but to present a sort of pen picture
of the woman herself as she impressed the
writer, that our young women may have a
glimpse of her beautiful life of self-sacrifice
and devotion to duty, and her delightful
personality. Sister Emily Young was a
woman of mighty faith, and of unbounded
charity towards those who were unfortunate,
afflicted or erring; one of her estimable
virtues was that she never spoke ill of any
one, and invariably reproved the young peo-
ple around her whenever she heard slanders
repeated. Her motto was,

“Nay, speak no ill, a kindly word
	Will never leave a sting behind,
But O, to breathe each tale we’ve heard,
	Is far beneath a noble mind.”

	As to a grand and noble woman, possess-
ing all those delightful traits of mind and
character, as well as devotion and activities
that adorn motherhood and home life, and
that make for the best in social surround-
ings, of all these qualities, she was the very
embodiment and exemplification in full
measure.
	One ought not to deplore the innate mod-

[Column 3]
esty and reticence of a woman who could
not and would not come before the public;
that is not to be considered for a moment
in estimating the worth of womanhood.
Sister Emily Young was in every way lov-
able, genial, a true wife and mother, a
woman who was obedient to every com-
mandment, who walked uprightly, and
worked righteousness, who was more willing
to listen than to attempt to teach. In the
opinion of the writer she was the old-
fashioned type of the Puritan woman, per-
haps something of the Quaker type, quite as
modest and as delicate in sentiment, as
Longfellow’s Elizabeth in “Tales of a Way-
side Inn.”
	Sister Emily Young certainly possessed
intellectual gifts that lay dormant; on rare
occasions with her intimate friends one be-
came aware of her latent talents in this
direction, but she was so timid and over-
sensitive, that even women who could influ-
ence seemingly the most diffident ones
among the sisters (Sister Eliza R. Snow)
totally failed to bring out a response in any
public manner from Emily P. Young.
Though she greatly admired these gifts in
others, and was anxious to have incidents
of the early days related for the benefit of
our young people, yet she had no confidence
to speak for herself.
	Undoubtedly had Sister Emily Young
been encouraged earlier in life to cultivate
her gift for writing, she might have given to
the world reminiscences of the most thrill-
ing episodes that have ever transpired
among the Saints, as a personal eye-witness.
As it is we have a beautiful life to contem-
late: among her many virtues we can num-
ber patience, resignation in times of great
sorrows and trying ordeals; fortitude, the
courage of religious convictions without any
reservation, purity of life beyond all ques-
tion. Sister Emily Young taught her chil-
dren faith by precept and example in the
ways of the Lord, and she was one of the
most distinguished heroines of the Church,
she was valiant for the truth and unflinch-
ing in her integrity to the Gospel, and as
firm in her convictions of the divinity of
the mission of Joseph Smith, the Prophet
as are the everlasting hills; for the faith and
the principles thereof she made great and
noble sacrifices.
	These notable women who have passed
away deserve the widest recognition from
those who are living today, and to have
their histories written by the most talented
among our people, for they have helped to
lay the foundation of a superstructure that
is to stand throughout all time, and have
helped to establish eternal principles that
reach far beyond this mortal life, into the
Celestial kingdom.
	For these two great women whose names
and pen pictures are linked together here,
what better can be said than this, that their
“children rise up and call them blessed,”
and all Israel say Amen.
	Emily Dow Partridge Young, born in
Painesville, Geauga County, Ohio, February
28, 1824. Died in Salt Lake City, Decem-
ber 9, 1899.


