[Column 1]
KEEP THE SABBATH DAY HOLY.
	“Remember the Sabbath day to keep it
holy, six days shalt thou labor and do all
thy work. But the seventh day is the Sab-
bath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt
do no work. Thou nor thy son, nor thy
daughter, nor thy man servant, nor thy maid
servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger with-
in thy gates!” was one of the commandments
which God gave to his ancient covenant peo-
ple, through his Prophet Moses.
	I will now quote from a revelation given
through the Prophet Joseph Smith, by the
Lord, to his Saints in this day, on August 7,
1831. see Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 59,
9th to 21st par.:
	“And that thou mayest more fully keep
thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt
go to the house of prayer and offer up thy
sacraments upon my holy day.
	“For verily this is a day appointed unto
you to rest from your labors and to pay thy
devotions unto the Most High.
	“Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered
up in righteousness on all days, and at all
times.
	“But remember on this the Lord’s day
thou shalt offer thine oblations, and thy
sacraments unto the Most High, confessing
thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the
Lord.
	“And on this day thou shalt do none other
thing, only let thy food be prepared with
singleness of heart, that thy fasting may be
perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may
be full.
	“Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in
other words rejoicing and prayer.
	“And inasmuch as ye do these things
with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and
countenances, not with much laughter, for
this is sin but,with a glad heart and a cheer-
ful countenance.
	“Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this,
the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts
of the field, the fowls of the air, and that
which climbeth upon the trees, and walketh
upon the earth.
	“Yea and the herb and the good things
which cometh of the earth, whether for food
or for raiment, or for houses or for barns, or
for orchards, or for gardens, or for vine-
yards.
	“Yea all things which come of the earth,
in the season thereof, are made for the benefit
and the use of man, both to please the eye,
and to gladden the heart.
	“Yea for food and for raiment, for taste
and for smell, to strengthen the body, and
to enliven the soul.
	“And it pleaseth God that he had given
all these things unto man, for unto this end
were they made, to be used with judgment,
not to excess, neither by extortion.
	“And in nothing doth man offend God, or
against none is his wrath kindled, save those
who confess not his hand in all things, and
obey not his commandments.”
	I have quoted from the revelation given
unto us in this day by the Lord, through
him, who we all testify to be a prophet raised
up by him in this day and age in which we
live.

[Column 2]
	Do we seriously consider the fearful re-
sponsibility which is placed upon us, who
profess to be Saints?
	Can we who feel in a measure this great
responsibility afford, to neglect, to set an ex-
ample which is worthy of imitation by all,
by whom we may be surrounded, our chil-
dren, our children’s children, and our neigh-
bor’s children. For many parents who keep
the laws of God strictly, and conscientiously
themselves, behold with sorrow, their chil-
dren led away by the pernicious influence of
their neighbor, or their friend, who perchance
may think that they are too strict, or too
pious, as they aften term it.
	My Sisters can we be too strict in keeping
the commandments of God? I think not! can
we consistently call ourselves Saints if we
willfully, or carelessly, neglect to keep the
commandments which he has given us, and
which are reiterated constantly by his serv-
ants, of whom we testify, that we know they
are called of God?. Have we not covenanted
in sacred and holy places, to keep all of his
laws and commandments, and teach them
to our children?
	If we do not fear for our own sake, to
break or disregard these laws, we should be
very careful of our conduct, for our children’s
sake and the stranger within our gates.
	One may ask how can we get along with
the work which we have to do, and not work
upon the Sabbath day, especially mothers
who have large families of children.
	In the first place it is necessary that we
should become converted to the fact, that
our Heavenly Father gives no command-
ment, to his children, which he will not give
them power to live up to. He has told us
to rest from our labors, on that holy day,
and to go to the house of prayer, now if we
will do this, He will certainly give us of his
holy spirit, which will admonish us of our
duties, and give us inspiration by which we
may be guided in the performance of them,
in a manner that will be acceptable to him.
	“Many hands make light work” and if a
mother of a family trains them properly,
there is no reason why they should not all
be able to enjoy the rest of the Sabbath day,
A careful mother will plan her work for the
week, in a manner that will not find her
overburdened with house cleaning at the end
thereof, but will quietly perform some por-
tion of it every day, and see that each mem-
ber of the family has his, or her, own especial
duties to perform, in their time and season.
There is no reason why our children should
be allowed to play or study, all the time,
we should as parents be generals or com-
manders of the forces at our command, and
study and work and play should be so classi-
fied, as to give proper time to each, and the
strictest obedience to discipline should be
required. If obedience be, as we are told,
the first law of heaven, obedience to that
law certainly should be insisted upon! Now
as to methods, by which obedience may be
brought about, they are manifold, and vari-
ous and many articles might be written upon
that vexed question, and yet “the half would
not be told” sufficient for this article to say,
that without obedience all would be chaos,
and that the very foundation of the super-

[Column 3]
structure which goes to make up a noble
character is obedience.
	Mothers can do much toward having their
children look forward to the Sabbath day
with pleasure as I said before. Do not let
the preparation for the Sabbath day, become
unduly burdensome at the end of the week,
so that it will impress itself in an unfavor-
able manner upon the minds of children.
In my childhood it was a custom, (every one
did it) in our home to turn every thing out
of the house on Saturday and every shelf
and every floor was scoured, yes literally
scoured with sand, until one could have
eaten off of any part of the floors, and every
member of the family, by night were worn out:
such a horror of Saturday cleaning, that I
vowed, that when I had a home of my own
I should never have a Saturday cleaning day!
and I have kept that vow. I try to manage
my work in such a way that Saturday is al-
most a leisure day, a preparation for the
Sabbath day, when I shall not be too weary
to enjoy its rest.
	I am sensible that where there are large
families, the management is more difficult,
but good generalship certainly will accom-
plish it. We should impress upon our chil-
dren the fact that God has commanded, that
we keep holy the Sabbath day and that we
dare not disobey him!
	As to those who serve us, the responsibili-
ty lies with us, to see that all who are with-
in our gates, except those who are unable,
and those upon whom devolves their care,
should go to the house of prayer.
			CAROLINE C. R. WELLS.
		(To be Continued.)


