TESTIMONIAL. 
TOKEN OF ESTEEM TO SISTER JANE S. 
RICHARDS. 
"Honor to whom honor is due," is an 
adage worthy of one's acceptance, yet how
rarely do we pause on life's highway long 
enough to give utterance to the thoughts 
that well in our hearts. Though we all 
appreciate appreciation, we fail to give it to 
others. 
So oft we check the loving word, leave deepest 
thought unsaid, 
Till friends are gone, then roses bring to scatter 
o'er our dead; 
O when shall we this lesson learn, save through 
regret and sorrow. 
That better kind words today, than roses on the 
morrow. 
	And so today we, the sisters of the Relief 
Society of the old Weber Stake of Zion, 
have come to tell you that we appreciate 
your long and faithful services in our midst. 
We love you for your true worth and for that 
you have done; for that broad charity that 
has been exemplified in your life. To quote 
your own favorite creed, "We did not all 
have the same mother," and so failings 
have been overlooked and the friendly hand 
extended; no cry of distress has reached 
your ears in vain; the naked have been
clothed, the hungry fed, the sick com-
forted, the dying soothed and the dead pre-
pared for their last long sleep. 
Shoulder to shoulder you have stood, 
with the best women that have ever graced 
the earth, Sister Eliza, Aunt Zina, and Aunt 
Bathsheba. With them your labors have 
reached through the different Stakes of Zion 
and to the nation of which we form a part. 
Not alone has the Relief Society been


blessed through your labors’ but the Y. L. 
M. I. A., owes its inception, birth and exist-
ence to your untiring efforts. It was Sister
Richards’ heart that yearned after the wel-
fare of the young girls, she it was, who as 
early as 1873 called a meeting of the young 
women of Ogden, including girls over eight
years of age. This meeting was so prolific 
of good that others were pleaded for and for 
six years they continued, finally culminat-
ing in the organization of the Y. L. M. I
A., on May 10, 1879. 
	Time fails us to enumerate the good you 
have accomplished, but your name must 
necessarily be forever linked with the his-
tory of the Relief Society. Home industries; 
the storing of wheat and many other good 
things have received your fostering care and 
untiring energy. 
	The whitening snow of winters, the 
scorching sun of summers have found you 
at your post of duty, until the Priesthood of 
the Lord have said, “It is enough”
	Your day of labor is past, twilight has 
come, enjoy your beautiful evening in peace; 
let nothing mar your quiet; hold sweet com-
munion with angels and loved ones, and as 
twilight deepens into night, and the mists 
gather around you, may our Father’s sus-
taining power be with you, the joy of a well-
spent life enlighten the gloom; may your 
vision penetrate the shadows, and, like 
Moses, may you view the better land where 
await your loved ones and all the sanctified 
in the Celestial Kingdom of our God.


