[Column 1]	
			R. S. REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened in the Panguitch Tabernacle
June 24, 1908, First Counselor Alice J.
Cameron presiding. Opening exercises,
minutes, etc.
	President H. A. Crosby was glad to meet
with her sisters in conference, but was
greatly disappointed in not having some of
the sisters from Salt Lake City to visit us;
but prayed the Lord to bless us in our con-
ference that we might have a time of rejoic-
ing together, and be built up and benefitted
by coming.
	Counselor Sarah A. Houston, like Presi-
dent Crosby, felt disappointed beeause we
had no sisters from Salt Lake to attend our
conference. Reported her visit around the
stake, had a good time, enjoyed the trip,
but was very tired. Said they found all of
the organizations in good running order but
two, and their presidents had resigned on
account of poor health. They had filled each
vacancy and all was in good order. Asked
the Lord to bless all the Relief Society
branches in the Stake.
	Maria L. Sargent told of her trip around
the stake. Had Brother John S. Crosby to
drive for them. Found in every ward only
the same few sisters that always attend to
their meetings, and the others they could
not get at. Thought that was where we
needed our sisters to work in the homes and
get the sisters that never come to meetings
of any kind interested in Relief Society
work. They do not know what it is or they
would come, not lose such precious bless-
ings. The sisters wherever we went were
interested in storing wheat.
	The secretary read a report from Kingston
ward, the sisters were doing good work, had
sent some money to the Manti Temple to
pay for work for the dead. Some of the
sisters wanted to come to conference but
couldn’t get away to come.
	Sister Julia Wilson reported the Hillsdale
Ward was not doing very well on ac-
count of their president being sick for over
a year, but hoped to do better in the future.
	Sister Gemmitt Ott, president of Tropic
Ward, reported her ward as being fully or-
ganized, and have been taking the lessons
as outlined.
	Sister Jane Rappley of Tropic told of the
way they had been carrying on their lessons
during the winter, had chosen sides and de-
bated. and had learned much. The teach-
ers must visit every month. Had some wheat
on hand and hoped to be able to store more
this fall. The Bishops had promised to
help them with their wheat.
	Sister Elizabeth Cameron hoped to be
able to do her duty. Asked the Lord to
bless us and unite us.
	Conference was adjourned until 2 o’clock
after singing and benediction.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock p. m.
Opened with singing, prayer, minutes, etc.
	Sister Mary B. Heywood reported the
Panguitch Relief Society. Said all that at-
tended the meetings were benefitted and
seemed to be interested, were taking the
lessons as outlined. Thought the attend-
ance was better this year than last; as an
average it was 30. Had sent several sisters
to take the nurses class course. Read a
letter from Sister Mabel Church who had
taken the nurse class course and graduated
with honors.
	Sister Bnnker from Mexico said she well
remembered when the Relief Society was

[Column 2]
organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
had been a member ever since; was thank-
ful for the privilege. Told of the martyr-
dom of the Prophet Joseph, and of her testi-
mony that Brigham Young was the man to
take his place and carry on the work of the
Lord. Prayed the Lord to bless our Soci-
ety.
	Sister Elizabeth DeLong bore her testi-
mony to the work of the Lord that we are
engaged in. Said the Relief Society work
was a great one. Advised the sisters to be
careful what they say and not backbite each
other, but say good things about each other,
for the Relief society sisters are expected to
do a great work and help each other.
	Sister Adeline Tuttle, a worker in the
Manti Temple was glad to meet with the sis-
ters. Bore her testimony to the Gospel.
Advised the brethren and sisters to do more
Temple work for themselves and their dead
friends.
	Sister Zina Hanks recited “In Grandpa’s
Days.”
	Sister Ella Cameron from Idaho, said she
was very glad to meet with the sisters in
conference, felt well in the work, and asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Kate Heywood thought the Relief
Society work was grand, but she couldn’t
always come to meeting, but would like to
attend the meetings regularly. Asked the
Lord to bless us all with the spirit of cheer-
fulness.
	President David Cameron gave us some
good advice. Told of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, his good work for women when he
organized the Relief Society. Encouraged
the sisters to press on in the good work.
	President M. M. Steele was always glad
to meet with the sisters. Urged them to be
punctual, “Start on time and stop on time.”
Spoke of the word of wisdom. Said all the
sisters who held offices in the Relief Society
should obey the word of wisdom. “Sisters
don’t tempt your husbands by offering them
tea or coffee. May the Lord help us to do our
duty at all times.”
	President H. A. Crosby said conference
would adjourn until ten o’clock tomorrow
morning after singing and benediction.
			Panguitch, June 25, 1908.
	The second days’ conference convened.
Opened with singing and prayer; continued
singing, minutes, etc.
	Sister Alice Jane Cameron was the first
speaker; said she was glad to be able to
meet with the sisters in this conference and
that we had the Spirit of the Lord with us.
Spoke of the power of prayer. That we
should always pray and teach our children
to pray. We should be careful in the train-
ing of our children. Keep them in nights;
that all parents should be united in the
training of our children, for we sisters can
do nothing alone. Spoke of the Stake fund,
explained what it is used for. Said we
should teach our children the principle of
tithing and all the principles of the Gospel.
Teach our children to be polite to the aged
people.
	Sister Ann Burgess, a very aged and dear
sister, 87 years, gave us some good
instruction, bore a strong testimony of the
Gospel. Told of how she became a Latter-
day Saint. Prayed the Lord to bless us all
and comfort us in our homes.
	Sister Emily Bunker said she had been a
member of the Church 68 years, and was
proud to be numbered with such people,
and hoped to be found faithful to the end.
Told of her mothers experience with the


