IN MEMORIAM.
	Died at Union, Salt Lake County, Sept. 19th,
1908, Sister Mary Anderson, the beloved wife of
Brother Andrew Anderson. She had been a great
sufferer for many years. In the early organization
of our Relief Society, she was a most efficient
teacher, ever ready and willing to help the poor,
the sick and the afflicted; later she was chosen
1st Counselor to Sister Mary Ann Smart, and re-
mained so until death released her.
	Sister Anderson was a wise counselor, a faithful
wife and a loving mother. She left her earthly all
for the gospel sake. She was born in the City of
Copenhagen, Denmark, August 21, 1834, baptized
in October, 1855, by Brother Ole Peterson; mar-
ried at Florence, June 18, 1863, by W. W. Cluff.
She leaves a loving husband, five sons and three
daughters, to mourn her loss, one preceding her
to the spirit world; also 33 grandchildren and three
greatgrandchildren, and two sisters, living at Mon-
roe, Sevier County.
	She was an ardent worker in our Relief Society.
May we ever emulate her wise counsel, for we
realize she has fought the good fight, and endured
to the end. Our loss is surely, her eternal gain,
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, they rest from their labors and their
works do follow them.”
	She was buried from the Union Ward Meeting
House, which was beautifully draped in white and
the hall was filled to overflowing. The floral offer-
ings were beautiful and numerous.
	The musical selections that were rendered by
the choir under the leadership of Brother Wm.
Cox were very impressive and beautiful.
	The speakers were Presidents Goff and Jensen
of the Stake Presidency, Elder Lindahl, Mary A.
Smart; also Brothers Wm. Panter and John Walker
of the Ward Bishopric in the absence of Bishop
Burgon, who was on a visit to England. She was
followed to South Cottonwood Cemetry by a long
train of carriages, bearing sorrowing relatives and
friends.
				President Mary Smart,
				Counselor Harriet Wilkens,
				Rosabel Walker, Secretary,
				Lucy A. Brady, Treasurer.
	P. S.—Sister Mary Anderson was a subscriber
to your valuable little paper which she with us
has always prized and its contents, which gave her
much pleasure and filled her heart with joy many
times when clouds appeared.
	Hoping you are well and will live many years
to publish your valuable paper which should be
in every household. I am sure every sister would
take it if they only knew the influence it carries
with it. I have always taken it and hope I always
will. Lovingly,
