[Column 1]	
THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN UTAH.
	There have been few political campaigns
in Utah which presented more vital issues
or were of deeper general significance than
the one in which we are now engaged. In
common with their fellow-citizens through-
out the nation, the people of this State are
keenly interested in the great national con-
test, and partake of the enthusiasm which
attends its successive phases and develop-
ments. Those whose affiliations and sympa-
thies are with the Republican party find
much to please them in the vigorous utter-
ances and the energetic campaigning of Mr.
Taft, supported by the strenuous backing of
President Roosevelt and the mighty assist-
ance of experienced party leaders. Those
who incline to the Democratic party, either
by reason of fondness for its principles or
admiration for its standard-bearer, are filled
with joy at the popular favor with which Mr.
Bryan is everywhere received and the ap-
plause which his letters and orations evoke.
Utah Republicans and Utah Democrats are
accordingly quite as hopeful, as eager, and
as interested as are their fellow-citizens in
Maine, Texas, Florida or Oregon in the great
game which is now being played before the
eyes of an eager constituency, and on the
merits of which the people will pass judg-
ment on the 3rd of next November.
	But here at home we have additional rea-
sons for approaching the ballot box next
November with sober and thoughful earnest-
ness. There are questions at issue which
should lie close to the heart of every good
citizen. At least one of these appeals espe-
cially to women—we refer to the splendidly-
growing sentiment in favor of temperance,
and the likelihood that with the election of
good legislators, the liquor traffic may be
restrained. It is the boast and the belief of
the friends of equal suffrage that the influ-
ence of women in politics and at the polls
is healthful and purifying. Here is an op-
portunity to make proof of the one and give
strength to the other. Men may, and per-
haps from sincere conviction sometimes do,
disagree as to the merits or desirability of
prohibition. Women do not. There is no
question about it in their minds. If their
votes could decide the issue, it would speedi-
ly be settled. Is it not proper to expect,
therefore, and to urge, that they shall avail
themselves at this time of every right of
citizenship which they enjoy? It seems to
us that any woman who through neglect or
indifference at this important moment fails
to register and to vote, shows but a feeble

[Column 2]
conception of her duty and a pitiful dis-
regard of the righteous power reposing in
her hands.
	Another issue of purely local importance,
but surely of enormous and terrible signific-
ance here where it is best understood, is the
announced threat that in the event of the
success of a certain faction in Salt Lake
County, a large number of the foremost cit-
izens of the community will be driven either
into exile or into the penitentiary. At the
recent convention of the so-called “Ameri-
can” party this infamous declaration was
officially made, and it was cheered to the
echo. Certain “Twenty-six” were referred
to as coming under this threat and consigned
to this fate—these “twenty-six” being the
general authorities of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, both Democrats
and Republicans, some of them men who
by their most bitter and vindictive ene-
mies have never even been accused of hav-
ing broken any law. It is true, the
astounding brutality of such a program re-
vealed itself on second thought to those who
had so madly applauded it; and the shrewder
of them promptly affected to lament, if not
the plan, at least the revelation of it. As a
political weapon it promises to recoil with
much severity upon its original wielders. But
that a program so vile should even have been
thought of, much less mentioned, evidences
a depravity that otherwise would have been
hard to fasten upon any faction seeking sup-
port from popular suffrage. If it means any-
thing at all, it means that if that faction shall
be successful the angry elements of discord
are again to be called up, the reeking hounds
of persecution again to be let slip, in this
prosperous and peaceful land. Is such a
prospect pleasing to those, whether Mormon,
Jew or Gentile, who live and expect to live
here? Their answer ought to be found, writ-
ten plain and decisive, in the ballot-box next
November. Those who fail to help in mak-
ing that answer clear and unmistakable, those
who neglect their part in administering re-
buke to a crew who would gorge and fatten
upon a community’s woes, may not be shar-
ers in the foul plot, but they show sure symp-
toms of the fatal complacency which fiddles
and sings while riot reigns and the world
burns. 
	For the foregoing and for other reasons which
might be cited, the forthcoming election is
full of moment to the people of this State
and this intermountain country; and the
Exponent feels fully justified in urging upon
all its readers the solemn duty of voting, and
of exercising that right with the true intel-
ligence and the conscientious prudence which
the gravity of the situation demands.


