[Column 1]
	BE VALIANT FOR RIGHTS.
	These are strenuous times; and just be-
fore election always is to those interested in
the great questions of the country’s welfare
and of its good government. Perhaps there
is no people more desirous of righteous, con-
sistent and wholesome laws and fair-deal-
ing than the Latter-day Saints. This land,
America, has been dedicated by the Consti-
tution to liberty, and one might add, con-
secrated by the blood of the Revolutionary
sires, who fought to establish freedom and
equal rights for all mankind, of whatever
faith or from whatever clime. That these
civil rights may not be subverted to un-
righteous ends and purposes, is the wish
and hope of every true-born and honorable
citizen, man or woman.
	When one becomes aware of the trickery,

[Column 2]
chicanery and treachery used in manipulat-
ing governmental affairs, it makes one fear
and tremble for the future safety and guid-
ance at the great centres of popular admin-
istration, whether in states or the country
at large.
	In our own fair state of Utah, of which
we are so justly proud, and for which so
many of us have labored and striven for
more than half a century, there has arisen
to the horror and dismay of all fair-minded
people of whatever creed, a faction that
would, if possible supplant the original in-
heritors of the rights so dearly purchased by
toil, hardship and privation, in wresting this
alkali desert from barrenness, and building
towns and cities, cultivating farms and or-
chards and gardens, and in every possible
way making it desirable for the establish-
ment of a great commonwealth here in the
mountains, far from the great cities of civil-
tion; in view of these things, one cannot
help recalling the circumstances and the
struggles of the pioneer life.
	The sacrifices made in coming hither
leaving homes and kindred, and the advan-
tages of surroundings that their own fore-
fathers had helped to establish, coming, too
without the comforts and supplies that
would have lessened in a degree the hard-
ships that must be encountered in such
long and tedious journeyings, and when one
reflects upon the loved ones laid down by
the wayside, in consequence of these condi-
tions, and all the perils incident to early
struggles for life and sustenance, one is hor-
rified at the thought that such threats could
be expressed as have been uttered and pub-
lished to the world.
	However, the trust of the Latter-day
Saints is in God, who has guided their foot-
steps to this goodly land, where they have
been able to accomplish greater things than
could have been anticipated when struggl-
ing for bread against hordes of crickets and
grasshoppers, to say nothing of wolves and
snakes and wild Indians that were here in
abundance.
	How the courage of men and women
held out is an enigma only to be solved in
the belief of their mighty faith and constant
prayers for help from on high.
	Suffice to say, the people lived and pros-
pered to the amazement of all who knew of
the circumstances, and now, when seeming-
ly all who gather here “Mormon, Jew or
Gentile” might be at peace and comfortable
if they would observe even proper, common-
place, everyday courtesy to one another,
pursuing their own vocations and not im-
posing on the rights of others there would
be peace, plenty, and prosperity.
	For one cannot help knowing that the
Lord has prospered the people in this great
mountain region almost beyond belief, when
one looks back upon sixty years of exper-
ience, and knowing thoroughly how severe
the struggles for an existence were, and how
miraculously many times the outcome has
been  brought about, when darkness hung
like a heavy cloud over the way. There-
fore those who trust in the Lord need not
fear, for the outcome, for assuredly right
will triumph over wrong though the powers
of evil combine.
	So many times the Latter day Saints have
seen the hand of the Almighty manifest in
their deliverance that there should be no
fear of danger, it will be diverted and fall
to naught if there is union among the peo-
ple.
	It is certainly desirable at the present
time that every one should conscientiously


and prayerfully view the situation in this 
city, county and state, and be sure they do 
so without prejudice or partisanship, and 
know each one for himself or herself, the 
serious consequences of throwing power into 
the hands of those who have sought to gain 
their own ends by fraud and deception. In 
this state where women have equal privileges 
with men they should be on the alert and 
active in season and out of season, in using 
their utmost influence as well as their ballot 
in and for all measures for the suppressing 
of vice and immorality of every sort, that 
the children and youth in this state may be 
protected as far as possible by law, that they 
may not be tempted to wrong-doing because of
the negligence of those who control public 
matters, that no unclean or wicked practices 
may have any sort of foothold in our city or 
county or be upheld by law or license. 
Every woman should, by her utmost in-
fluence, aid good, honest, honorable men in 
putting away all that is obnoxious and 
offensive to society and people, so far as it 
can be done by those who hold the balance 
of power in the franchise. 
	That this city may be free from anything 
that would pollute its clear, moral atmos-
phere, that Utah may be the pride of the 
West in temperance, morality and all the 
qualifications necessary to entitle her to 
take highest place among her sister states. 
Women with the ballot should be able to 
do much towards uplifting a standard of ex-
cellence for others to follow who do not have 
this precious gift, and that the women of 
Utah may stand fast for the betterment of 
society in all its various phases and avenues 
and especially for the purity of the home let 
us watch and pray always.


