[Column 1]	
LETTER FROM NEW SOUTH WALES.
				Friday, August 28th 1908.
Dear Claire:—
	Have only time to commence this letter,
as I expect papa and Mrs. Nichols over by
next boat, but there is so much to be crowded
in between this and next Monday (when the
“Marama” sails,) that I must make use of
every minute. The fleet has been here, and
gone, and I am sure it will take a full week
for people to settle down to normal condition
again. As Vio Little used to say, I am still “so
full of excitements,” that my head is thumping
with neuralgia, and I feel like a wilted flow-
er, with no strength or ambition left. But
how glad I am that I was blessed with the
privilege of witnessing this grand spectacle,
and how proud of my country that she could
do this most wonderful thing. No words of
mine can convey to you how beautiful it all
was. The people of Sidney spared neither
trouble nor expense to make the city and
harbor a perfect picture. It was a revelation
to me in decoration. Not just a few great
gilded eagles, shields done in our national
colors, and a few yards of bunting, but hun-
dreds of them, and flags by the thousands.
Several of the principal streets were literal
bowers of flags and strips of bunting. Besides
this thousands of yards of ropes of evergreen
festooned on both sides of streets. Think of
the labor and cost of such decorations, but
the beauty of it is beyond my poor powers
of description. The Parks, Botanical Gar-
dens, principal buildings and streets were a
blaze of electric lights, in our colors. Great
statues of liberty were erected in several
places, and Queen Victoria’s statue, which
stands in McQuarrie street, was encircled
with poles from which were festooned strings
of electric lights (in red, white and blue)
and the space inside this circle was a mass
of palms, ferns, and other beautiful plants.
The word “Welcome” appeared here, there
and every where, in electric lights. Balls,
garden parties, dinners, lunches, concerts,
theatres, all sorts of games and sports weregiven every day and evening, besides trips
by train and boat to the wonderful caves and
water falls, Medlow baths, etc., were given.
All street cars, ferries, launches, etc. gave
free transportation to officers and sailors
alike. People with automobiles would stop
whenever they saw a bunch of sailors walk-
ing, ask them to get in, and off they would
go. Everything was as free as the air, to one
and all. It was just wonderful and splendid,
from first to last, and made one glad to be
alive.
	We took rooms and board for the entire
week, at a place called “Highroid” and from
our balcony could see sixteen of the ships,
also look across the bay to Sydney and see
the fireworks and illumination. (The fire-
works cost over $5,000.00.) Every night from
7 to 10 o’clock the battle ships were a blaze
of electric lights, and on Saturday night they
illuminated with search lights throwing great
arms of light all over the harbor, and far out
to sea.
	Should I write all day I could not make
you understand, nor could you conceive of
the grandeur and beauty of the scene. One
morning we had a shower, then the sun
shone out suddenly, and there appeared a
rainbow, which (I believe) can only be pro-
duced in a tropical land. It cast its radiance
over eight or ten of those great white ships,
but on two of them one end seemed to rest.
I assure you I never saw a more magnificent
picture in all my life. I was spell-bound,
and neither wished to speak nor hear a sound,

[Column 2]
I only wanted to gaze until the beautiful
picture faded from my view, and this I did.
How I enjoyed hearing the ship’s bands play-
ing “The Star Spangled Banner”—“Hail
Columbia” and other soul stirring airs. Only
those can understand, who like me, have heard
them in a far off land. I just trembled with
loyal enthusiasm, and loved my country
better than ever. Papa is sending you a
copy of “The Town and Country Journal,”
which is filled with illustrations, some of
which are very good. We only came back
home yesterday, and found plenty to do—
but every thing is once more in order, and
it seems good to be here, and to be quiet
again.
	Sunday Evening. I have been obliged to
use pencil and carbon paper—because my
time was so taken that I could not write to you,
and my children all about the fleet, unless
I made several copies at one time, so please
forgive me. I have just re-read your letter,
and there are many items I would like to
mention, but I am very tired, so we’ll let
this go as it is. Ada Dwyer has spent today
with us and we have talked over the days of
our childhood—and of mutual friends at
home till my head is aching—and I’m sure
she is tired. Dell and Dorothy took her back
to her hotel in Sydney. She is playing “Mrs.
Wiggs” to crowded houses—and every body
loves her, both off and on the stage.
	Dearest love to all at 417. With a kiss
and a prayer for your welfare—we’ll say good
night.						JETT.


