[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONJOINT MEETING
AND BANQUET
In honor of the retiring President of Weber 
Stake JANE S. RICHARDS. 
On September 10, 1908, the Relief Society 
of Weber County, heretofore comprising the
Weber Stake of Zion, held its last quarterly 
conference. The stake had grown to such 
proportions that it was deemed proper, for 
its better development to divide it into three 
stakes, which will hereafter be known as 
Weber, Ogden and North Weber stakes. This 
conference was long to be remembered by 
those present. For 37 years President Jane S. 
Richards has held sway over the hearts and 
lives of the sisters of this stake, and it was 
to do honor to her that the people came out 
en masse. 
There were present on this occasion, 
Apostle David O. McKay, Presidents of the 
Weber, Ogden and North Weber stakes, Elder 
Franklin S. Richards of Salt Lake, bishops 
and other leading brethren, General Relief 
Society Secretary Emmeline B. Wells and 
Emily S. Richards of the General Board, 
also the Relief Society presidents of the three 
newly organized stakes, and not least among 
them our former President Jane S. Richards, 
surrounded by those who for so many years 
have labored under her direction and guid-
ance. The Hall was filled to its utmost 
capacity. 
At 11 a. m. the conference convened. Pre-
sident Jane S. Richards presiding. 
Singing "We thank Thee O God for a 
prophet." 
Prayer was offered by Elder Franklin S. 
Richards, continued by singing the hymn 
"O say, what is truth?" 
President Jane S. Richards spoke words 
of welcome and expressed her gratitude for 
the privilege of meeting once more with the 
sisters and those interested in Relief Society 
work. She had greatly enjoyed her labors 
in this connection and said the work of the 
Relief Society is worth doing well, and she 

[Column 2]
trusted all would bear this in mind and give 
to the work the best of which we are cap-
able. 
Apostle David O. McKay said: we have 
met here today to do honor to Sister Jane 
S. Richards, who has labored lo! these many 
years in the interests of the Relief Society of 
the Weber Stake of Zion. Too much honor
could not be shown to her. He looked upon 
the women of Zion as queens for they were 
the mothers in Israel, and no greater honor 
can come to any woman than Motherhood. 
Rehearsed the story of the Roman mother's 
jewels and referred to the jewels of Sister
Richards—jewels whose influence was felt 
in Zion through service for others; also told 
the beautiful story of Hannah and her boy, 
whom she gave to the Lord; of Ruth and 
others, using them as illustrations of service 
and sacrifice of self. Asked the blessing of 
the Lord upon the queens—the mothers in 
Israel, that they might let the beauty and 
grandeur of motherhood be known in the 
world. Paid a glowing tribute to the labors 
of Sister Richards and prayed the blessing 
of heaven to be round about her through her 
remaining years. 
General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells said 
she was present when Sister Richards was 
called to preside over the Relief Society of 
the Weber Stake of Zion; this was the first 
Stake organized and Sister Richards its first 
president. Testified to the noble work she 
had accomplished and to the sweet spirit of 
humility that had characterized her whole 
life. Felt glad that she had been relieved 
of the arduous labors she had borne so long, 
and her prayer was that those who had been 
called to the work might carry it on success-
fully. All who are called to positions of im- 
portance gain development as they could 
gain it in no other way—Sister Richards has 
proven this and as a star she shines among 
the brightest. Referred to the rapid and 
gigantic growth of the Relief Society in all 
the world and showed the absurdity of its 
being composed entirely of elderly sisters. 
President Lewis W. Shurtliff was glad to 
be present to do honor to Sister Richards; 
he had known her long and intimately and 
had always found her in quest of sickness 
and distress that she might bring relief and 
comfort. May God bless her for that she 
has done. The work has grown to immense 
proportions and there is work for all. 
Sister Emily S. Richards said that Weber 
stake had had some of the best opportunities 
for gaining knowledge and that they had 
come largely through the energy of Sister 
Richards. She placed the magnitude of her 
achievements with those of Sister Wells, 
though in a different line yet each have been 
marvelous in scope. The Relief Society has 
done more for the women of Zion than we
can ever do for the society. 
A Token of Esteem to Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards was then read by the assistant secretary, 
Nellie Becraft, at the close of which a small 
memento was presented. 
Sister Richards responded in a few well 
chosen words, telling of the joy and satisfac-
tion she had always felt in the labors of the 
society.  Appreciated the love and support 
of the sisters, commended them for their 
faithfulness and prayed the Lord to ever 
bless them in their labors. 
President Emily M. Shurtliff of the Weber 
Stake Relief Society asked the sisters to re-
spond with a hearty Amen if they were satis-
fied with what had been done for Sister Rich-
ards. This was given unanimously. 
President Charles C. Richards of the Ogden


Stake spoke of the labors of his mother and
also his father in the Relief Society cause,
and said the monument of their good deeds
was more to the family than wealth of gold.
Urged the sisters of the three stakes to a
continuance of the labors begun; this, he
knew, was his mother’s wish. Thanked all
who had so ably supported her in her labors
and prayed heaven’s choicest blessings upon
them.
	Elder Franklin S. Richards was glad to see
this day, was thankful that the Priesthood
had seen fit to release his mother from the
arduous duties of the Relief Society. What
ever failings had been they had been through
frailties of the body. Words failed to express
the appreciation of the family for the love
and esteem that had ever been given his
mother. Thanked those who had stood at
her side to aid her—every sister and brother
who had added their part to her success, and
trusted choicest blessings be meted out to
them.
	Singing “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning.”
	Benediction was pronounced by Elder
Robert McQuarrie, after which a banquet
was served in an ajoining hall, thus a spirit-
ual and a temporal feast was enjoyed and a
social time spent that will linger in our me-
mories for years to come, bringing sweet
thoughts and pleasing reflections.
