EDITORIAL Entered second at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto— Charity Neyer Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor --------- SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager ------- JANETTE A. HYDE Aaaiatont Manager ------- AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII December, 1920 No. 12 The Pilgrims Came History measures results, not efforts. Men make history only when they impress good or evil upon group life. A. hermit genius might leave behind some single token of supreme power as expressed in literature, music or marble. Rut the genius who can so express his will upon the plastic minds of his fellows that neither time nor distance may offer permanent obstacle much less oblivion — that genius, whatever his form of expression, engraves eternal characters on the pages of history, here and hereafter. The impress made by the Pilgrims on the life-history of America is out of all proportion to their numbers, their time of arrival and their previous condition. Two remarkable facts lie at the root of this truth: the party of pilgrim* were intensely individualized. Each man and each woman dynamic human unit. Courage, faith, integrity, and keen religious fervor were integral parts of each soul who landed at Plymouth Rock, December 21, 1620. That and the other far more remarkable fact that this group of strong souls could realize so keenly the saving power of group-form — what we call today, teamwork — this second binding obligation kept them together, molded differences, mellowed do secrecies and knit up the group into a dominating force which later compelled "teamwork" from the wrangling and far more 
 austere Puritans who followed them. It permeated life in the new colonies, reaching out to the bounds of Jamestown, finally, and later, even converting aristocrats like George Washington. At last it focused into itself the spirit and genius of "1776," creating a free America out of a dependent English colony. Was not the gun whose shot echoed around the world fired in Lexington? Did not Boston hold the tea party? And yet South of Massachusetts swarmed the Dutch in New York, and Pennsylvania, while the south harbored English and French aristocratic adventures by the thousands? Follow the stream of American history, listen to the waves of measurable harmony and cohesion which broke yesterday, and break upon our national shores today, and you will find the individual integrity and group spirit of the Pilgrims lingering as the undertone of all the sounding tides. To Utah came the descendants of these life path-finders. The Pioneers, like the Pilgrims, carried the group sword of justice sheathed by mercy's individual need. The torch of reason was lit. by a live coal from the altar of revelation. And each strong soul, man and woman, knew that only in group-form could, they persist. Here, as in their New England homes, they set up their altar fires within their homes, and each to each gave service for service. To such belong the kingdom of heaven. We do well to honor the Pilgrims and the Pioneers! We do better when our own lives carry on the dominant spirit of individual integrity united with devoted group service. NEW BOOK BY NEPHI L. MORRIS. Orie of our most eloquent speakers and widely-known publicists. Elder Nephi L. Morris, has entered the field of literature with a very valuable contribution, "Prophecies of Joseph Smith and their Fulfilment," published by the Deseret Book Company. The kindly encouragement of the veteran publisher and friend of all Utah authors, Walter J. Lewis, has helped to make this book possible, as the author gratefully acknowledges. The book presents many vital points concerning prophecy which would have to be hunted for in histories, biographies, and forgotten manuscripts. It will be an ever present help in time of need to missionaries, students, and saints generally. Particularly interesting today is the chapter concerning the return of the Jews to Palestine, the wonderful prayer and prophecy of Orson Hyde, and the present fulfilment of all that was foretold. It has been adopted by the M. I. A. Reading Course, 1920-1921. Guide Lesson Suggestions LESSON I. THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY. (First Week in January.) SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND DEAD. (Revelation.) The theological lesson will take up a study in comparative religion. The founders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came out from various protestant religions. They were somewhat familiar, therefore, with the beliefs, forms, and creeds of the churches of the world from which they came. Comparatively few present-day members of our Church are acquainted with the faith and creeds of other religions. Strangers who imagine that plural marriage is the only difference between the doctrines of the Latter-day Saints and those of other sects, know very little about "Mormonism," so-called, and it is feared that some of our people, born and brought up in the Church, know less about the differences between our faith and the fathers of other sects than does the Christian world at large. It is well to begin these lessons with the assertion that the principles advanced in the lessons and taught by the prophet Joseph Smith, has since his time entered into the very life and religion of all Christian sects. Germs of these truths exist and have existed in every religion. Christian, Jewish and Pagan. It was the fulness of the truth which was lost in the great apostacy. When the full light of truth was revealed to the world, men at first rejected and spurned that light, but the very fact that it had come into the world permeated their worn creeds and gradually influenced the minds of people and ministers alike. For that reason we ask our students to consider and consult present-day ministers of the gospel and present their modern ideas on these subjects as well as those ancient creeds which have and do still remain the bulwark of all the churches. We shall later present the foundation creed of all modern religions which is found in the thirty-nine articles of faith, accepted by Catholics, modified by the Reformers, but which is still the accepted standard of faith of all modern sects and creeds. Then the student may discover sects. established wherein "Mormonism" differs from these long 
 To discover a truth through the process of mental study, through association of ideas, or through a flash of sudden thought, is what we term inspiration. Revelation, pure and simple, is truth divinely and directly communicated to man. With the startling revelation which the prophet received in the grove of Palmyra one hundred years ago, came several new divinely revealed truths, or we might sav, correct angles on old truths. The first revelation was the fact that revelation had not ceased. All of the sects of the day without exception, Jewish and Christian, maintained that the canon of scripture was full and that the Bible was the sole guide left to men upon the earth. It was understood, of course, that this might always be supplemented by inspirational thought. But men, both ministers and laymen, quoted the last four verses of the "Book of Revelation" to substantiate this position:"If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book." The following is taken from: The Westminster Confession of Faith, A. D. 1647. Found in the book, "Creeds of Christendom," and accepted by all orthodox churches today, written by Schaff, vol. . 1. Although the light of nature, and the works of creation and providence, do so far manifest the goodness, wisdom, and power of God, as to leave men inexcusable;  yet are they not sufficient to give that knowledge of God, and of his will, which is necessary unto salvation;  therefore it pleased the Lord, at sundry times, and in divers manners, to reveal himself, and to declare his will unto his church;  and afterwards, for the better preserving and propagating of the truth, and for the more sure establishment and comfort of the church against the corruption of the flesh, and the malice of Satan and of the world, to commit the same wholly unto writing;  which maketh the holy scripture to be most necessary;  those former ways of God's revealing his will unto his people being now ceased. IV.- The authority of the holy scripture, for which it ought to be believed and obeyed, dependeth not upon the testimony of any man or church, but wholly upon God (who is truth itself), the author thereof;  and therefore it Is to be received, because it is the word of God." We present here the modernized article on revelation from the "Westminster Confession of Faith," arranged by Henry Van Dyke, Moderator. General Assembly, 1902. Article II. of Revelation. "We believe that God is revealed in nature, in history, and in the heart of man;  that he has made gracious and clearer revelations of himself to men of God who spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit;  and that Jesus Christ, the Word made Flesh, is the brightness of the Father's glory and the express image of his person. We gratefully receive the Holy Scriptures, given by inspiration, to be the faithful record of God's gracious revelations and the sure witness to Christ, as the Word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and life." GUIDE LESSONS 729 It will thus be seen that orthodox Christian ministers today maintain that the Bible is the sole source of revelation. The modern chatechism of the Christian church puts it thus: The alone-sufficiency and all sufficing of the Bible, as a revelation of the divine character and will, and of the gospel of grace by which we are saved;  and a rule of faith and practice. The prophet Joseph Smith had several vonderful revelations in the grove that spring day, but the most marvelous one was that revelation had not ceased with the closing of the Bible Hds. It was upon the fact of his new revelation hisas persecution that tion rested. The prophet sums up the situafollows: "Some few days after I had this vision, I happened to be in company with one of the Methodist preachers who was very active in the before-mentioned religious excitement, and conversing with him upon the subject of religion, I took occasion to give him an account of the vision which I had had. I was greatly surprised at his behavior: he treated my communication not only lightly, but with great contempt, saying it was all of the devil;  that there was no such thing as visions or revelations in these days;  that all such things had ceased with the apostles, and that there would never be any more of them." (History of the Church, vol. I.) A quarter of a century later, 1848, the devil began his revelations to the Fox sisters, in Hydeville, Wayne county. New York. Rapping, table tipping, and hypnotic trances began with these so called "clairvoyants." Gradually the false revelations have increased in frequency and popularity until today some of our greatest scientists, notably Sir William Crookes and Sir Oliver Lodge, in England, with Professor Charles Richet. in France, and Professor Morselli, in Italy, have convinced themselves and many other people of the supernatural character of modern "revelation." Even so great a scientist and so sane a thinker as Thomas Edison has begtm a series of experiments to communicate with the dead scientifically and with humanly prepared instruments. Today when our missionaries go out into the world they meet with very little ridicule when they speak of revelation as a part of our religious faith. So great has the leavening power of this gospel been on that point that few men, even scientists, presume to deny the possibility of revelation. They do, however, treat contemptuously or skeptically the idea that the Father and the Son appeared to the prophet Joseph Smith in the grove one century ago. Revelation in the form of mental suggestion, imaginative hallucinations, or conceiving truth by a flash of the mind, everybody is ready to admit;  inspiration is candidly accepted and everybody talks glibly about this one or that one having the "vision" of this or that business or cause. While many are also having false "revela- 
 tions" today;  magazines deal with all classes of medium stories, and theaters open their doors to plays founded entirely on the supernatural appearances of spirits from the other side. In the "Return of Peter Grimm," presented by David Warfield, and in Maeterlinck's "Bluebird," the idea of revelation takes poeXip form, but is none-the-less, an admitted possibility in modern life. In the midst of this modern confusing visionary experience, our elders and students must set up a standard, or rather they must rest their claims upon the standard erected by our Father in Heaven by which the false and true revelation can be judged. That standard is the authority of the Priesthood duly organized in the Church of Christ as we shall see in later lessons. We must admit, always, that new revelation may be received at any time by any person. The key to divine revelation, however, is always held by the Priesthood and each man is subject to those who preside over him. Revelation for the conduct of the Church will be received only by the president of the Church;  revelations or inspiration for the conduct of ward affairs may be received, if necessary, by the bishop of that ward, always subject to unity with the presiding authority. Each man and woman is entitled to receive revelation, or inspiration, concerning his own business, but no man may rightly receive revelations concerning another man's business. (See October "Magazine," Genealogical lesson, page 598. Brigham Young sermon extract.) The Church received a revelation through Brigham Young (see Sec. 136), appropriate to the time and conditions. President John Taylor received one also fitted to his time, and President Joseph F. Smith had his glorious vision, printed in our "Magazine," December, 1918. QUESTIONS. 1. Why should the light of truth permeate all men when it is once revealed into the world? 2. How have our present day ministers of the gospel been influenced by the truth concerning revelation taught by the prophet Joseph Smith? 3. What is revelation? 4. Name some truths revealed in the grove at Palmyra, to the prophet Joseph Smith? 5. What is the canon of scripture? 6. Quote the last four verses of the "Book of Revelation?" 7. Why should the preacher be angry with the prophet? 8. Who were the Fox sisters? GUIDE LESSONS 731 9. Quote the Westminster Confession of Faith, if possible, or such portion as found in this lesson. 10. What can you say as to true and false revelation? 11. Who has the right to receive revelation for the Church, and why? Note: Students and class leaders should consult converts to the Church regarding their former beliefs concerning revelation. It might be well also to interview ministers of other denominations so as to be fair in our estimate of their attitude on the subject of revelation, as well as to read encyclopedias and religious histories so as to ascertain the true belief of those not of our faith. Notice to Genealogical Committees, Both Stake and Ward. In the recent convention held by the Genealogical Society of Utah, it was decided that the Relief Society Genealogical workers should continue their activity in arranging excursions to the various temples, only where they are simply and wholly Relief Society excursions. If the Priesthood are included in these excursions it would be better for such excursion to be arranged by the genealogical committees, which are composed of three brethren from the Priesthood quorum, with two Relief Society women who are familiar with genealogical work and study. The Relief Societies also are to carry on the Annual day activity, reporting the same as usual in our blanks. The theological lessons this year may also be continued under these committees if thought best by the presidents of the stakes, as the lessons will deal with principles connected with salvation for the living and redemption for the dead. Do not slacken your efforts, sisters, but hold up the hands of the brethren and continue in the good work of filling our temples and assisting the people in every way possible. Lesson II. WORK AND BUSINESS. (Second Week in January.) Lesson . LITERATURE. (Third Week in January.) OUR L. D. S. HYMNS AND THEIR AUTHORS. The hymns of a people — that is, the religious music of any people, contribute, perhaps, more to their life of worship than any other one visible factor. It is also true that the character of a people, or a church, can be discovered more quickly through their religious music than in any other way. The elaborate and ornate ritual services employed by the 732 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Hebrews after the building of the temple in Jerusalem and copied by them from Egypt and the Pagan nations about them, indicated their changed social characteristics which followed them after their sojourn in Egypt. '' After the Savior's day, his followers for generations used the simple music begotten of the lovely simplicity which was so much a part of the Savior's character and teaching. Not until the apostasy of the fourth century did the music in the Christian churches copy the elaborate and ritualistic features common to the old Hebrews and to the Roman nation, whose customs Constantine the Great, fastened on to the apostate Christian churches. List of L. D. S. authors: Lucy Mack Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, Emily Hill Moodmansee, Lulu Greene Richards, W. W. Phelps, Parley P. Pratt, Wm. W. Clayton, Charles W. Penrose, John Jacques, Alexander Neibaur, Henry W. Naisbitt. A hymn is a religious ode or poem intended to be used in worship. Rythm is a necessary quality in as much as hymns are written that they may be set to music and sung. All nations and peoples have used music as an expression of courage and patriotism, of love and grief, and especially was it used as the emotional aid to religious worship. The history of the ancient world as found on stone and papyrus, in ruined homes, palaces, and temples, proves the constant and varied use of musical instruments and musicians among every people, pagan, or Hebrew. So far as is known, however, all music, both vocal and instrumental, were without combined harmony. The singers and musicians carried the same melody without bass, tenor, or alto parts. The Greeks knew the hymnal, but the greatest contributors to the hymnolovy of the world known up to the time of the Christian era, were the Hebrews. This, of course, is not surprising, because the Hebrews, worshipping as they did the only true and living God, developed a religious atmosphere that would certainly culminate in just such literary achievement;  hence we have the Hebrew Psalter, one of the most valuable collections of hymns the world has ever seen. The hymns of the early Christian era are of great worth, being adaptions of Hebrew rituals, some of them coming to us as rays of light breaking through the darkness of the Middle Ages. The early writers adapted the tunes of the troubadores to religious words and thus began modern hymns. Middle Ages. Luther was the first modern religious leader to GUIDE LESSONS 733 permit women to sing in church, or to make music congregational. He, also, and his successors, adopted the newly discovered harmonics of the Dutch and Italian musicians to sacred tunes and melodies. And there was a veritable renassance of hymns during the days of the Reformation. It was at this time that Germany made the contribution to the hymnology of the world that has put her in the front ranks as a hymn producing nation;  for Germany stands first in the quality and number of hymns produced, although Italy discovered the oratories. Among G.erman writers the name of Martin Luther is famous, both for the number and quality of his hymns, the most noted, of course, being "A Mighty Fortress is Our God." The English come next in their output. From among the many English hymns of very high literary value we name only "Lead. Kindly Light," by John Henry Newman. We are happy to record the names of a group of women hymn-writers, first of whom is Mrs. Sarah Adams, the author of "Nearer, My God, to Thee." "Just as I am Without One Plea," was written by Miss Charlotte Elliot, and "One Sweetly Solemn Thought" is by Poebe Gary. The hymns written by Latter-day Saint authors are full of the religious fervor that characterizes the people as a religious group. Many of them are the offspring of historical events of great importance;  preserving the emotional past and, breathing the marvelous hope of the future of the Latter day Saints. Whatever the limitations of the hymns of the Latter-day Saints may be, we face the astounding and gratifying fact that they are greater in number and better in quality than one could humanly hope for, when we take into consideration the youth of the Church and the strenuous life that has been led by its adherents. Yet from the very hardships that have been endured by this people have come out some of their most vital hymns. The Latter-day Saints must feel great satisfaction in the fact that we have so many names to record. The readers of the "Relief Society Magazine" must be proud of the fact that among the authors of these hymns appear the names of Lucy Mack Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells. Emily Hill Woodmanse, Lulu Greene Richards, M. M. Johnson, and perhaps others. In connection with the women whose authorship we appreciate, we are deeply gratified to place the names of W. W. Phelps, Parley P. Pratt, William Clayton, Charles W. Penrose, Alexander Neibaur, Henry W. Naisbitt, and John Jaques. It will be the purpose of this course of lessons to present 
 the values of such hymns as may be selected in such a way that we may come to know something of their historical significance/as well as to be led to appreciate more thoroughly their thought content, their emotional content, and their literary el]fectiveness. Try to think of the occasion when the use of the hymn, "O, My Father," made the deepest impression on your life. Name a group of non-Morman and of Latter-day Saint women who have contributed to Latter-day Saint hymnology. QUESTIONS. 1. What is a hymn? 2. What is a hymnal? 3. Select one of the psalms and read it. What national group gave us the Psalms? 4. Who was Martin Luther? Try to find "A Mighty Fortress is our God," and read to the class. 5. Read "O, My Father," to the class. 6. Who was John Henry Newman? Read to the class. "Lead, Kindly Light." 7. Select the lines in the hymn that give evidence of great spiritual struggle. Lesson IV. SOCIAL SERVICE. (Fourth Week in January.) ( Preview. ) Social Service: A study of the local community will be continued in this department throughout the next year. The lessons will be as follows: The community — historical setting;  city administration;  recreation;  education;  juvenile delinquency;  social legislation. HISTORICAL OUTLINE. In order to make a proper and reliable social survey of a community, it is necessary to study the history of the place — its physical environment, type of people who settled there, and their ideals, etc. t'he history of any town or settlement should be the story of how the people have developed their ideals as well as the rise and growth of their industrial life. A. Location of the town or citv. a. On what stream? How the stream has influenced the industrial life of the people. No doubt it was used for irrigating the lands and gardens in early days. Contrast the volume of water found originally with amount in streams today.