GUIDE LESSONS. 123
We expect condensed thought in poetry. This last stanza is a very excellent example of just that very important literary quality, quite indispensable in poetry. The Church was ten years old when this poem was written; the two most important facts in connection with the Church was that angels had spoken, revealing the Divine will, and that the Book of Mormon had come forth, hence the lines: "Angels from heaven and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne." The last two lines of the hymn are a repetition of the thought, in language not before employed, that truth has come into the world for the ransoming of the children of men. The figure used in the opening lines has been carried through. The first line says, "The morning breaks," and the last line speaks of "Zion's light bursting forth."
SUMMARY.
In summarizing the literary qualities of this hymn, we note the fact that we have a great message expressed in beautiful and effective imagery; that the verse is pleasing to the ear, and that the quality of suggestiveness reaches the high water mark, in its power to draw on the information and imagination of the reader; that the emotional content is exalted, the diction telling, and the ideas condensed. It is a literary gem that bids fair to survive in Latter-day Saint hymnology and literature, as long as time and eternity shall endure.
SUGGESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. State the message of this hymn in your own language.
2. What is meant by the emotional content of a poem?
3. "The clouds of error disappear before the rays of truth divine." How have the "rays of truth divine" affected the knowledge of the world in relation to the Godhead, preexistence, Christ's divinity, baptism for the living and the dead, marriage, and the life to come?
4. What meaning do you place on the words, the "glory bursting from afar," and "truth from earth have met," etc.?
5. What is a comparison? Give an example.
6. What is a metaphor? Give an example.
7. What words are employed to symbolize knowledge and truth?
8. What words are employed to symbolize ignorance and error?
9. Take your hymn book and select your five favorite hymns from the pen of Parley P. Pratt. Analyze them.
10. Have a member of the class analyze them; give a brief sketch of the life of Parley P. Pratt.


LESSON IV. Social Service FOURTH WEEK IN APRIL.
COMMUNITY HEALTH.
Community health is the business of every individual in the community, not, as many appear to believe, the special business of the health officers. Desirable health conditions are secured only through the whole-hearted cooperation of all concerned; organization is essential to the accomplishment of the best results. In every city and town there should be a voluntary association of private individuals to cooperate with the local health officers and the local medical association in the study of diseases prevalent in the community?their source, method of communication, and means of control.
QUESTIONS.
1. Has your community a voluntary citizen's organization for the promotion of health?
2. What proportion of the population does it represent?
3. Does its members include a majority of the community's representative citizens?
4. Do its members cooperate with health officers in trying to prevent spread of disease by (a) obeying sanitary regulations; (b) reporting all cases of communicable diseases, and complying with quarantine requirements?
State boards of health usually control matters pertaining to health conditions, affecting the entire state, for example, drugs and foods; state wide epidemics, etc. In many states the state board controls operation of water and sewage plants. Local boards, however, usually control problems of sanitation and hygiene, and local epidemics. In New York City the board for formulating ordinances consists of a health commissioner, the commissioner of police, and the court physician. Their powers are almost unlimited and their ordinances have the force of law. These ordinances are administered under six heads of business, viz.:
1. Medical inspection, including (a) contagious diseases?disinfection, isolation, quarantine, etc.; (b) School inspection; (c) Child hygiene?infant mortality.
2. Food inspection.
3. Sanitation?draining, plumbing, housing, streets, etc.
4. Vital statistics.
GUIDE LESSONS. 125
5. Laboratories?antitoxins, etc., research.
6. Records, contracts, publicity.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is the organization and what the powers of the local board in your community?
2. Does the board make free examination of water, milk, and suspected foods?
3. Does it examine free of charge, sputum, etc., from suspected cases of communicable diseases?
4. Does it print for public distribution ordinances bearing on public health?
5. Is the public supplied with information on number of cases of communicable diseases and on resulting deaths?
6. Is it supplied with data on local birth rate and death rate?
7. Does the board of health publish and distribute educational material on health subjects?
8. Does it require reports on cases of communicable disease from: (a) Attending physicians; (b) Superintendents of institutions; (c) Proprietors of hotels; (d) Owners of apartments and dwellings; (e) Superintendents of schools? Are children excluded from school when there are cases of communicable disease in the home?
9. Is the board provided with sufficient funds to do its work efficiently? (Authorities state that 50c to $1 per capita is necessary for this purpose).
Local physicians, especially when organized, constitute one of the most important factors in the betterment of a community's health conditions. This is particularly true in smaller towns where the two or three physicians are often the only health experts in residence.
QUESTIONS.
1. Has your community a medical association?
2. Do its members, collectively and individually, instruct their patients in sanitation, personal hygiene?
3. Do its members, when requested, furnish lectures for mothers' clubs, parent-teacher association, etc.?
4. Do they report to the health officers births, deaths, and cases of communicable diseases?
Among the factors for prevention and control of disease may be mentioned:
1. Community housekeeping, which includes a pure water supply, clean milk, and other food materials, clean markets, clean streets, etc.


2. Hospitals and sanitoria.
3. Clinics.
4. Educational agencies: (a) board of health bulletins and reports; (b) public lectures; (c) health lessons in public schools; (d) public health nurses.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is the source of your town's water supply?
2. Is it adequately protected from contamination?
3. Does the city provide efficient inspection of its milk and food supply?
4. In what manner are garbage, sewage, and filth disposed of?
5. Are the streets kept clean? By what means?
6. Has your community a hospital or sanitorium, or bath? Are they favorably located as regards light, pure air, noise?
7. How are they supported?
8. Are they adequate for the care of the community's sick?
In an effort to show that smoking does not affect the voice for singing, a booklet, issued by The Tobacco Merchants Association of the United States entitled, "About Cigarettes," says: "Caruso smokes cigarettes almost continuously." The press dispatches carried the news that Caruso burst blood vessels in his throat twice within ten days during the month of December, while singing in New York?another instance showing that increased blood pressure from the effect of nicotine is not desirable. Even though smoking should not noticeably affect the voice of a singer, any school boy or girl knows that a vocalist cannot long continue bursting blood vessels in his throat and "get away with it."
BURIAL CLOTHES
Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders.
TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER.
Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286
Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month
For the past TEN MONTHS. One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have You Seen It?
Dependable The Deseret News Progressive
The Utah State National Bank
The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.
Officers Heber J. Grant, President. Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. William R. Wallace, Vice-President. Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier. Samuel H. Keddington, Asst. Cashier.
The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted below:
12 Vol. Of 1915, Cloth Bound, at.................. $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather Bound at................ 2.00 15c extra for postage
All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts.
"DELIVERED EVERYWHERE"
Ice Cream
Special attention given to parcel post candy orders
P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City
Watch for Our New "Mountaineer"
Kiddies Allovers wear like leather. Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits For Boys, Youths and Men?they don't rip;
Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened)
4 Uses Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate Eating
New, different, delicious?Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package.
McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c. Can