	ABOUT LETTER WRITING.

		By Blanche Beechwood.

		"Full or have letters caused the writers,
		To curse the day they were inditers"
	Cautions against letter writing are in
order at the present time.  Editors, jour-
nalists and authors in general, all seem to
partake of the same spirit, and labor with a
zeal worthy the object, to impress upon the
minds of the people, that it is unwise to
put their private thoughts and feelings
upon paper, lest they should be, through
treachery, intrigue, or unwarrantable self-
ishness, (which will involve one's life even,
or more than that perhaps their good
name,) exposed to the idle criticisms, and
alas! too frequently the harsh censure also,
of a scandal-loving, misjudging community.
	Should that which was intended only for
the eyes of the dearest, truest friend, or
the devotedly attached lover, be held up to
the ridicule, irony and sarcasm of uninter-
ested and unauthorized judges?  What
terrible agony one must suffer to have their
heart's secrets blazoned forth, perchance
among persons destitute of that fine per-
ceptional sensibility which only those
can understand whose organizations are of
the finest order of spiritual element.
	"Where glow exalted sense and taste refined,
	There keener anguish rankles in the mind;
	There feeling is diffused through every part,
	Thrills in each nerve, and lives in all the heart..
	How utterly unable we are to judge one
another, none of us being constituted ex-
actly alike; how can we define each other's
sentiments truly, how discriminate fairly
and justly in those peculiarly nice points of
distinction which are determined by the
emotions agitating the human heart in its
variety of phases, or under, perhaps, excep-
tional circumstances?
	We are all of us created with distinct
forms, distinct minds, we all have a certain
individuality, and we may ourselves differ
in feeling, thought, sentiment, opinion, or
action, at different times and under other
influences.  It is certain we do not always
feel alike, then it follows conclusively we
cannot always act alike, talk alike, or write
alike.
	It is this very diversity of face, figure,
form, feature, or outline, and greatest of all,
variety of taste, feeling, sentiment, expres-
sion, and of mind itself, which makes life
beautiful, and gives grace and charm to the
human soul.
	Let us hope that this debasing element
which has crept into modern society, has
not altogether defiled the pure fountain of
confidence and integrity which exists be-
tween intelligent and noble-minded men
and women, but only some of its remote
branches. Certainly it is a pleasant thing
to speak or write frankly and confidentially
to those in whom we feel there is safety,
and who have souls great enough to sympa-
thize with us in life's ills; we may do this
innocently if received in the same spirit.
	The past furnishes us many instances of
letters of friendship, between persons of op-
posite sexes, which are rich with sentiment
and charming in style, from which no un-
happy conclusions were drawn, which have
come down to us as samples of purity of
thought, feeling and expression.  Are we
then in this enlightened age so much be-
hind in nobility of character as to lose
faith and trust in one another?


Flash youths—telegraph boys.


