FLOWERS.

	The two impressions.—Great men leave
two impressions of themselves on their con-
temporaries—the one the result of their
public career, the other of their private life.
	KIND words are the bright flowers of
earthly existence; use them, and especially
around the fireside circle.  They are jew-
els beyond price, and powerful to heal the
wounded heart and make the weighed-
down spirit glad.
	SELF-RESPECT is the noblest garment
with which a man may clothe himself—the
most elevating feeling with which the
mind can be inspired.  One of Pythagoras'
wisest maxims, in his golden verses, is that
which enjoins the pupil to reverence himself.
	SORROWS sober us and make the mind
genial.  In sorrow we love and trust our
friends more tenderly, and the dead be-
come dearer to us.  Just as the stars shine
out in the night, so there are blessed faces
that look at us in our grief, though before
their features were fading from our recol-
lection.
	THE man who is only honest when hon-
esty is the best policy is not really an hon-
est man.  Honesty is not swerving policy
but stable principle.  An honest man is
honest from his inmost soul, nor deigns to
stoop to aught that is mean, though great
results hang on the petty fraud.
	WHEN all is over, and our feet will run no
more, and our hands are helpless, and we
have scarcely words to murmur a last prayer,
then we shall see that instead of needing a
larger field, we have left untilled many cor-
ners of our acre—and that none of it is fit for
our Master's eye, were it not for the soften-
ing shadows of the cross.—EX.
	THE TRUE LIFE.—The mere lapse of
years is not life.  To eat and drink and
sleep; to be exposed to darkness and the
light; to pace around in the mill of habit,
and turn the wheel of wealth; to make rea-
son our book-keeper, and turn thought into
an implement of trade—that is not life. In
all this, but a poor fraction of the conscious-
ness of humanity is awakened; and the
sanctities still slumber which make it most
worth while to be.  Knowledge, truth, love,
beauty, goodness, faith, alone can give vi-
tality to the mechanism of existence; the
laugh of mirth that vibrates through the
heart, the tears that freshen the dry wastes
within, the music that brings childhood
back, the prayer that calls the future near,
the doubt which makes us meditate, the
death which startles us with mystery, the
hardship that forces us to struggle, the anx-
iety that ends in trust—are the true nour-
ishment of our natural being.—Martineau.


