		NOTES AND NEWS.

	MARRY for love, young man, but remem-
ber that  is as easy to love a girl whose pa
has a hundred thousand in the bank as one
whose old man sits up behind a pair of
mules and yells, "Whoa! you Pete, or I'll
take your ear off!"
	THE PRINCE of Wales on his visit to In-
dia, will be accompanied by four representa-
tives, of London Journals. Dr. Russell for
the Times, Mr. Forbes for the News, Mr.
Henty for the Standard; and Mr. Edwin
Arnold for the Telegraph.
	IN WISCONSIN a new law has gone into ef-
fect, providing that every woman over 21
years of age, residing in the district where
certain duties are to be performed, shall be
considered eligible for the following offices:
director, treasurer, clerk of school districts,
director and secretary of town boards, un-
der the township system of school govern-
ment. Members of a board of education in
cities and county superintendents of schools.
	A JUST and sensible scale of salaries has
been adopted by the Board of Education, of
Nashville, Tennessee. They have decided
to pay each teacher for the actual work per-
formed, without distinction in regard to
sex. When directors and law-givers in
general, see fit to lay down the rules on such
equitable terms, women will have less occa-
sion to clamor for their rights than they
now have, and will probably talk less, and
be less talked about.
	IT IS stated now by the Eastern papers,
that the direct cause of the destructive fire
at Holyoke was the use of trimmings etc.
about the altar; also the entire building was
sheathed with pine instead of plaster. The
coronor's verdict condemns those who had
the construction of the interior of the build-
ing, they not having provided sufficiently
for egress therefrom. Already eighty have
died and there are more who are not expected
to survive the effects of that most distressing
catastropher.
	A BOOK recently published by the Rev.
Dr. Jessup, who was seventeen years a
missionary in Syria, gives one some ideas
concerning the people and customs of that
Eastern land. A large part of them speak
the Arabic language, and are devoted follow-
ers of Mohammed. The women among
them are looked upon as something very in-
ferior, and when a baby girl is born, there
is mourning, whereas, at the birth of a boy
there is rejoicing. A Mohammedan Mufti,
in reply to Dr. Jessup suggesting girls being
taught, said, "Teach a girl to read and
write! Why she will write letters, sir, yes,
actually write letters! The thing is not to
be thought of for a moment." There is still
work to do for those who have the means
and ability in elevating the women of that
far-famed land, where our blessed Savior
lived and taught the principles of divine
truth, where He was scourged and beaten,
and at last crucified.
	A WOMAN PREACHING IN ENGLAND.—
	John bull says that another clergyman's
relative has taken to preaching. "Miss
Laura Addiscott, who delivered the ad-
dresses at Deptford on Sunday week, is 

[Column 2]
youngest daughter of Mr. J. L. Addiscott,
and neice of the late Rev. H. Addiscott, of
St. Paul's, Taunton. She is of middle
height, and apparently eighteen years of
age. She conducted the services without
any aid from others. She gave out hymns,
prayed with great fervor, and read the
Scriptures admirably. In the evening she
took her text from a portion of Mark vi.
The address lasted over three-quarters of
an hour. Her appeals were forcible, her il-
llstrations homely, usually the result of per-
sonal observation, and, as a rule, well chosen
and well applied."
	BUNKER HILL'S centennial exhibition
in Charleston, Mass. last month was evi-
dently a grand success. The procession was
ten miles long, consisting of nine divisions,
and was four hours and ten minutes in
passing any given point. The route was
six miles long, from Columbus Avenue to
Winthrop Square. The military is estima-
ted as numbering 11,500 persons and the
aggregate number of the procession 26,000.
Judge Devens delivered the oration, com-
mencing with a WELCOME etc. Next he
expatiated at some length upon the Harvard
men who were engaged there a hundred
years ago; afterwards of Prescott and War-
ren, next the constitution, the duty of con-
cilation, then Sumner, and in conclusion
exhorted the audience to imitate the exam-
ple of those who there fought for civil and
religious liberty, not like the Romans or Gre-
cians for love of war. In the evening an
informal reception was given by the Mass.
Commander of the Loyal Legion of the U.
S., to Gen. Sherman, at the Parker House,
which was largely attended by the most dis-
tinguished people, and was exceedingly
pleasant.


[Column 1]
	EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.
	The following items are from a letter
written to E. W. East, of this city, by El-
der George L. Farrell, who is at present in
the Nottingham conference. The letter
was dated May 25th, 1875.
	After giving some account of his health
and the labors of the brethren in that lo-
cality, and making some inquiries regard-
ing friends and affairs in Utah, he alludes
to othe arduous uphill business of doing any-
thing which has not got money in it, says
"that is about all the people are after, from
the king on  throne, to the merchant,
the minister, the laborer, and even the beg-
gar in the streets.
	"One of our sisters" he says "asked a fine
grown, strong, healthy-looking young wo-
man, who came to the door begging, if it
would not be far better for her to try and
get a situation at some gentleman's house,
than to go through the streets begging as
she was doing. The young girl replied; no
indeed it wouldn't! The sister inquired the
reason; her reply was, it wouldn't pay,
there wasn't money enough in it. The sis-
ter opened her eyes in astonishment, and
asked her if she could get more money by
begging. She answered, "Oh yes! it is a 
very poor street that I cannot get a penny
in and I can visit sixty streets per day and
at least that will clear me five shillings, and

[Column 2]
and I am my own mistress into the bargain. 
	In our travels among the people we find
when men have earned their money, (and
wages are higher now than they used to be)
they hand over a certain amount to their
wives, just as little as they can manage
things with, and the rest they spend in 
drinking, gambling etc. and in passing
through the streets every fourth man you
meet (and some women) have beer, gin
whiskey or rum depicted in bold characters
upon their countenances so plainly that the
passers by cannot help but look, and read;
and many exclaim what a shame for a gov-
ernment like Great Britain to license beer-
shops, gin-places etc. It is plan to be seen
by the world at large, as well as the saitns,
that these very excesses and abominations,
are going to prove the over-throw and de-
struction of the nations.
	I passed through a village of about two
thousand inhabitants the other day, and the
signs over the doors were so thick, that in
the Main Street alone I counted three hun-
dred and seventy-eight, ninety-seven of
which were licensed to sell intoxicating
drinks; which we find is over one-fourth of
the whole; and one would naturally wonder
where the money comes from to support
them all; but when we read the statistical
reports of some of the leading cities, the
problem is solved. I came across some
statistics (a short time ago) of London, ob-
tained from the reports of the London City
Mission, viz.; "It is the largest city in the
world, it covers nearly fifteen miles radius
of Charing Cross, nearly seven hundred
square miles and numbers four millions in-
habitants, including one hundred thousand
foreigners.
	London contains more Jews than the
whole of Palestine, more Roman Catholics
than Rome itself, more Irish than Dublin,
more Scotch than Edinburgh. The port of
London has every day in its waters a thou-
sand ships, and nineteen thousand sailors.
More than a hundred and twenty persons
are added to its pupulation daily, or forty
thousand yearly, a birth taking place every
five minutes, and a death every eight min-
utes. On the Police Register there are
names of a hundred and twenty thousand
habitual criminals, increasing by many
thousands every year.
	There are as many liquor-houses as would,
if their fronts were placed side by side,
reach from Charing Cross, to Portsmouth, a
distance of seventy-three miles. Thirty-
three thousand drunkards are annually
brought before its magistrates, besides the
many thousands of drunkards who are not
brought before  authorities. The shops
open on Sundays would form streets sixty
miles long, and it is estimated that there
are above a million people, who are practi-
cally heathen, wholly neglecting religion."
	Br. Farrell says these facts prove there is
an extensive field of labor, for a good sup-
ply of faithful elders to preach the Gospel
of Jesus Christ; and that the Elders who
are laboring with him in that vicinity, are
using every effort in their power to get the
brethren and sisters to break off from their
old habits of drinking beer, tea, coffee etc.,
and putting their means in the P. E. Fund,
instead; and all who are doing so, are pros-
pered beyond their anticipations.


