A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS

	One of the greatest topics of discussion in
this age, is the proper and appropriate sphere
and position of woman; what she can do, and
ought to do, and is capable of doing. What
she is likely to become in the future from
mixing in the society of the opposite sex.
All these, and a thousand more questions
naturally arise as woman moves forward
in the scale of advancement, and the world be-
gins to understand more of her capabilities
for actual performance of work, which involves
talent, energy, enterprise and skill in execution.
	Colleges and Universities are now open to
women, the bar (the pulpit even) the lecture
hall, and many other  occupations for those
who have the faculty, the ability, and the mor-
al courage, to face opposition, to withstand
criticism and defy ridicule.
	That there is now (and every day widening)
a broader field of labor open to woman, a high-
er cultivation of her brain, a more just appre-
ciation of her merits and attainments, among
the best and truest of mankind, are facts which
have become visibly apparent. Unders[---]
are not meaning that this higher type of wo-
manhood is what pleases mens' fancy, because
“the embodiment of the masculine ideal" the
"womanly woman" which they hold forth for
our admiration, is all helplessness, dependence,
un-reliant, self-depreciating, "gushing, trans-
cendental," and superficial, a worshipper of
idols, and these idols themselves.
	And when they have given woman this


[Column 1]
standard of human perfection, with sweet
words of flattery and precious bits of advice,
what then? What indeed? After fostering
these weak, "childish sentimentalisms" after
rendering them too lovingly blind to be able to
guard themselves against "designing and con-
scienceless men," they are the very ones who
make them weep bitter tears of humiliation,
if not remorse.
	Is it not time that men gave woman encour-
agement in being practical, earnest, strong-
minded, self-reliant, original, (if you will,) that
she should feel she had an agency of her own,
independent of man? Will not women seek
more earnestly to strengthen their intellect
and correct their judgment when they can be
convinced there is a responsibility resting upon
them, which will effect not only themselves,
their children, and their immediate circle of
acquaintances, but more or less influence soci-
ety at large, the country in which they dwell,
the government which bears sway over all.
	While men are determined to keep women
subordinate, they will of course pamper these
"defects in her, because it is flattering to their
own self-love," and they cry out, "We want
women left us and not female men," and talk
and write, about making room for a "third
sex."
	Men who can see a lack in woman's education
are scarcely willing to concede their capabil-
ities, even when differently and more thorough-
ly educated. A very fine writer has said, in
answering common objections, that one of very
frequent recurrence is, that "Women would be-
come the rivals of their husbands, instead of
their companions." A writer in the "Wo-
man's Journal," commenting upon it says:
"Not until love was suppressed—its foundation
will be wider—it will be less blind, and pro-
duce fewer troubles." This writer says (speak-
ing, of course, of the age in which he lived
fifty years ago,) "In Paris the highest praise
for a marriageable girl  to say, she has great
sweetness of character and the disposition of a
lamb." And when he alludes to women be-
coming authors, he does not at all relish the
idea of living ones, but seems disposed to allow
the publication of their works after their death,
"like Madame De Stael." He goes on to say,
"to print anything for a woman under fifty is
to risk her fate in the most terrible of lotteries;
if she is so fortunate as to have a lover, she
will lose him to begin with."
	But this writer, much as he seems "to shrink
from the idea" of women authors "makes a
generous exception when a woman needs to
support her family by writing," and also ad-
mits the indirect influence of women on lit-
erature."
	The extracts made from this work by the
writer in the "Woman's Journal," are worthy
of being copied for the perusal of all intelligent
women; they afford subjects for serious reflec-
tion, and give us an idea of what a man of re-
finement and cultivated intellect considered
woman's highest prerogative, half a century
ago.
	One particular paragraph strikes us as being
something peculiarly calculated to inspire
women to adopt other and higher ideas, than
those of pandering to man's tastes and appe-
tites; it is this. "Most men have a period in
their career  when nothing seems impossible.
The ignorance of women spoils for the hu-
man race this magnificent opportunity; and
love, at the utmost, inspires a young man to
learn to ride well, or to make a judicious se-
lection of a tailor."
	In view of these facts and many others, does
it not behoove us to create for ourselves a

[Column 2]
higher standard, and having fixed upon it, be
firm in our resolves to attain whatever is possi-
ble, with the weapons we have to work with,
and the tide of opposition we must stem?


