		SALT LAKE CITY. JULY 1, 1875


[Column 1]
		SPLINTERS.
		  LOCAL.
	Sudden deaths in and about this city,
have marked the last two weeks; several
caused by accidents......A case of small-pox
in Ogden, was recently reported, a conduc-
tor on the C. P. Railroad being the sufferer.
Proper precautions were taken to prevent
the spread of the disease......Alta with its
few citizens have arranged a grand celebra-
tion for the Fourth of July, they are to have
a procession, displays, orations, poems etc.
......The Paulist Fathers Rev’s J. W. Dwy-
er, A. L. Rosecrans, A. B. Brady and W.
Elliot arrived here June 16th, and have
opened their mission in this city and Ophir
......New potatoes grown here were in mar-
ket before the middle of June......The
foundation of the new Co-operative Store is
being laid......Hon. J. R. Kelley, United
States Senator from Oregon, paid a visit to
this city, arriving here June 16th......Mrs.
Oates Comic Opera company filled a success-
ful engagement of three nights at the
Theatre June 17th, 18th, and 19th......An
epidemic sore throat is raging in Coalville,
in many cases proving fatal.....The Old
Deseret Bank building has been taken down
and the debris is being cleared prepara-
tory to commencing the new building......
Montgomery Queen's Circus and Menagerie,
gave afternoon and evening entertainments
on Washington Square, June 21, 22, and 23,
of course they drew large crowds and have
probably taken $10,000 profits......There is
to be a Grand Celebration Ball in the
Twelfth Ward Assembly Rooms July 5th.
Ogden will celebrate the Fourth of July on
Monday the fifth with a grand parade, part
of the Fire Brigade of this city have been
invited......Classes have been organized for
teaching the Spanish language in this city.
.....Work on the Seventh Ward Meeting
House is progressing......The Sunday School
examination at the Sixteenth Ward school-
house, Sunday morning June 20th, was very
creditable to pupils and teachers, and to the
Supt. Mr. H. Emery......An itinerant mu-
sician minus one leg, is entertaining our
citizens with the melody of a hand organ,
which he moves around by means of a
hand cart.
			GENERAL.
	Commencement at Swarthmore College
Pa., took place June 15th......A deputation
of ladies from Charlestown District, waited
on Mayor Cobb of Boston June 18th, re-
questing him to enforce the Sunday law of
closing drug stores, bake shops etc......Wm.
I. Bouditch’s valuable pamphlet upon "Tax-
ation of Women" in Mass., has already
reached its third edition......James Free-
man Clarke and his daughter Lillian, have
completed a volume of translations from
the German Poets, called the "Exotics"......
Madame Thiers at present occupies the pos-
ition in the world of fashion formerly held
by the Empress Eugenie......Hon. S. E.
Sowall has prepared for publication the re-
vised statutes of Mass. concerning the per-
sonal and property rights of wives, mothers
and widows......The New York State Wo-
man Suffrage Society held its final meeting
for the season in Brooklyn, the second week
in June......The annual meeting of the
“Progressive Friends" was held at Long-
wood, Chester County, Pa., June 10th, this
meeting invites to fellowship all who are in-
terested in the triumph of good over evil
......The Sorosis sisters of New York have
resolved not to patronize those stores and
shops where women are kept standing all
day......The American Association for the
[Column 2]
advancement of science will hold its annual
meeting in August, at Detroit, Mich......The
attempt made to impeach the President of
Mexico was a failure......The illustrations of
Shakespeare, for Cassell which are being
prepared by Gustave Dore, will bring him
it is said $50,000....The annual examina-
tion of the United States Naval Academy
at Annapolis, Md. began June 10th......Miss
Alice Singer, daughter of the sowing ma-
chine inventor was married in England to
Mr. La Grove of Brooklyn, Thursday June
11th, her dower is one million......It is fully
anticipated that Chicago will be decided up-
on as the location for the new mint, the
proximity of Lake Superior and the direct
communication with Cal. and Nevada mines
being in its favor, also the Swansea smelt-
ing works.....St. Louis has had a deluge of
rain, it is said 12 feet of water fell in 20
minutes; houses in various parts of the city
were rendered untenantable......The Presi-
dent visited the building and grounds for
the centennial exhibition at Philadelphia,
the 18th of June......Great fire at Grand
Rapids, Michigan, involving a loss of $150,-
000 June 19th......Deputy U. S. Marshals
Allen and Blood of Texas, have been in-
dicted and arrested for allowing McCartney
the counterfeiter to escape.
			PERSONAL.
	Prof. Joseph Winlock, a distinguished as-
tronomer and director of the observatory at
Cambridge, Mass., died very suddenly June
11th..... Hon. Thomas H. Selby Ex-Mayor
of San Francisco, died in that city Wednes-
day June 10th......The Rev. Horace James,
once Secretary of The American and For-
eign Christian Mission, died at Boylston,
Mass., June 9th......Arthur Dyer, a New
York Journalist aged 20, shot himself June
10th......Mr. Motley, the historian, has had
an attack of paralysis from which it is
feared he will never sufficiently recover to
resume his literary labors......Wm. B. Alli-
son, Senator from Iowa, has been appointed
chairman of the convention to negotiate
with the Sioux in relation to the Black
Hills......Mrs. John Wilcox died in San
Francisco Wednesday June 16th, from the
effects of chloroform administered previous
to having a surgical operation performed.
			FOREIGN.
	Very heavy failures of business houses in
London, are reported recently........Great
damage to property and loss of life by the
flood of the river Garonne in France......The
London Times report a rebellion in Burmah
A terrible earthquake at Circuita, S. A. is
said to have leveled every wall in the city,
and buried at once 8,000 people......There is a
current report that Garcia, who stole one of
Murillo’s pictures from the Seville Cathe-
dral, has been shot......The Levant Herald
speaks of a very deadly plague among the
Montific Arabs spreading over considerable
country......At Versailles, June, 26th, they
celebrated the anniversary of the death of
Gen. Hoche.....The Irish and American
riflemen have done some fine shooting at
Dollymount......The Grand Lodge of Mas-
ons gave a banquet to the visiting marks-
men, who were of the masonic order......In
France a bill has been recently published
regulating the newspaper press......Cholera
in India is much worse than usual this
year......Victor Hugo has realized by
his pen, during a celebrated literary ca-
reer, over $600,000......An illustrated life of
Bismarck, is about being published in Leif-
zig......The people of Greece are raising a
private subscription to erect a monu-
ment in honor of Lord Byron......Mr. Ev-
elyn Bellen, son of the late well known read-
[Column 3]
er, is about to make his debut as Hamlet,
on a London stage......There is some appre-
hension of a crisis at Athens, which is
feared might result in the abdication of
the King......At the opening of a hall in
London lately, by the Rev. Mr. Spurgeon,
12,000 Persons were present......Composer
Offenbach has recovered, and will shorly re-
sume his work......The American residents
of Berlin with members of the Diet, and
Professors of Berlin University gave a grand
dinner recently to Carl Schurz......Charles
De Remusat, the eminent French author
and politician is dead.....221,034 francs
were realized by the sale of Millet’s paint-
ings in Paris......Portugal has emancipated
her slaves......Coleman Hunt's painting,
the "Shadow Of Death" has been exhibited
in Manchester, and visited by 50,000 people
......Lord Derby was visited by an anti-sla-
very deputation June 2nd, he refused to
mediate between Spain and the insurgents
of Cuba......A law has been passed in Rome.
condemning to a months' imprisonment for
the first offense for blaspheming in the
streets, either God, Christ, the Virgin or the
Saints, and six months for the second of-
fense.


