		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	After Dinner naps.—Many persons are in the
habit of sleeping for half an hour immediately af-
ter dinner. Ten minutes' sleep before dinner is
worth more than an hour after. It rests and re-
freshes and prepares the system for vigorous diges-
tion. If sleep is taken after dinner, it should be
in a sitting posture, as the horizontal position is
unfavorable to healthful digestion. Let those who
need rest and sleep during the day take it before
dinner instead of after, and they will soon find
that they will feel better and that their digestion
will be improved thereby.
	Work as a Remedy.—Dr. Dio Lewis says: A
lady has just left our rooms whose case illustrates
an important idea. Ten years ago she was an in-
valid. Her malady was obstinate, and at the end
of a year's treatment a consultation resulted in the
opinion that her case was cerebro-spinal irritation,
from which she would probably never recover.
Six years ago her husband died. His estate
proved insolvent. The wife engaged in an active
occupation to support her three children. In a
year she was well, and has remained so ever since.
	There are two million dyspeptics in America.
Nine in ten of them could be cured by work,
	A wealthy clergyman from a neighboring State
assured us that he had spent eight years and thirty
thousand dollars in seeking a cure for his dyspep-
sia. He had traveled everywhere and consulted all
sorts of doctors. We are afraid he will never for-
give us for telling him that six month's hard work
would make a well man of him.
	How He Lived Ninety Years.—"With a good
appetite, three times a day, delicious sleep, not an
ache or pain in the whole body, the mind all the
time fully alive to what was going on in the
world, and all the time in good spirits." This was
said of the late ex-Governor Thorpe of New York.
It is added.
	He retired at nine, and rose at six, taking a nap
in the forenoon, and sometimes in the afternoon al-
so; breakfast at eight, dinner at one, and tea at
sundown. In suitable weather he spent a greater
part of the forenoon in his garden directing his
men, and assisting them, and for a short time in
the afternoon he was employed in the same way.
He used no spirituous liquors, but took claret wine
every day at dinner.

[Column 2]
	There are three things here noted, which if per-
sistently carried out in early life would do more
than all others towards giving all an enjoyable old
age, viz: regularity in eating, abundant sleep, and a
large daily exposure to out-door air.
	Regularity in eating, either two or three times a
day, with nothing whatever between meals, not an
atom of anything, would almost banish dyspepsia
in a single generation; as frequent eating is the
cause of it in almost all cases, especially if irregu-
lar and fast.
	Abundant sleep and rest from childhood make
nervous diseases a rarity; to insufficiency of regu-
lar sleep, and insufficiency of rest, may well be at-
tributed nine-tenths of all sudden deaths, and a
premature wearing out before the age of sixty
years. All hard workers, whether of body or
brain, ought to be in bed nine hours out of the
twenty-four, not that so much sleep is required,
but rest, after the sleep is over; every observant
reader knows how the system yearns for rest, after
a good sleep and it is a positive gain of energy
to indulge in it.
	Every hour that a man is out of doors is a pos-
itive gain of life, if not in a condition of chilliness,
because no in-door air is pure; but pure air is the
natural and essential food of the lungs, and the
purifier of the blood, the want of which purifica-
tion is the cause or attendant of every disease;
while every malady is alleviated or cured by an
exposure to out-door air. If city wives and daugh-
ters would average two or three hours every day in
active walking in the open air, it would largely
add to the exemption from debility, sickness and
disease, and would materially add to the domestic
enjoyment and the average duration of life.—Ru-
ral New Yorker.


