HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Suet Pudding.—One cup suet, half-cup molass-
es, one and one-half cups sweet milk, three cups
flour, two spoons baking powder, one cup raisins,
one cup currants; butter the pan and steam two
and one-half hours.
	Chocolate Custard.—Prepare chocolate with a
quart of milk as you would for the beverage.
When this has boiled sufficiently to quite dissolve
the chocolate, add a tablespoonful of corn starch,
thinned with milk. Have beaten two eggs and a
cupful of sugar, into which gradually pour the
boiling chocolate. Return the whole to the fire,
and boil long enough to cook the eggs, say two
minutes, stirring constantly; don't forget a pinch
of salt.
	Preserving Gooseberries.—Among the many
ways I have tried, by way of experiment, to keep
gooseberries for winter use, I have finally decided
the following to be the best, surest, and least ex-
penditure of money and time:—Put one gallon of
dressed and washed berries in a porcelain kettle,
with just enough water to avoid burning until the
steam turns the top ones white, over which sprinkle
two thirds of a cup of brown sugar; cover close
and set over a brisk fire. As soon as they boil up
enough to slightly cook those on top and melt the
sugar, spread upon plates and set in the sun to
dry. (The juice must be turned on with the ber-
ries). Turn over with a knife; a few times dur-
ing the hottest part of the day, being careful not
to smash the berries. As soon as dry, heat in the
oven, to avoid the possibility of worms. When


nearly cool pack in stone jars, and if well covered
and tied they will keep for years.
	Southern Kansas, May, 1875.		A. H.
	Strawberry Shortcake.—With one quart of sift-
ed flour mix thoroughly two teaspoonfuls of
cream-tartar and one of soda, or the equivalent of
these in baking powder; rub in a bit of butter the
size of an egg, a little salt, and sweet milk enough
to form a soft dough; roll half an inch thick and
bake in a shallow pan 15 or 20 minutes; have
ready two quarts of fine fresh strawberries; split
the cake, place half the strawberries between and
cover thickly with white sugar and cream; put the
other half on the top and cover in the same way;
serve as soon as done.
	Stewed Water-Cresses.—Water-cresses are very
delicious stewed.  They should be placed in strong
salt and water to free them from insects, after
which they should be carefully picked over, the
water drained off, and then put into a stewpan with
a lump of butter and a little pepper and salt; a few
minutes will suffice to render the cress quite ten-
der.  A little vinegar may be added just before
serving, but this must be according to taste.
	To Prevent Lamp Chimneys from Cracking.—
Put the chimneys in a kettle of cold water and
heat gradually until the water boils, and let it cool
as gradually.  As the heat from the lamp flame be-
comes more and more intense the chimneys will
expand and contract without causing them to break
or crack.—Rural New Yorker.


[Column 1]
