			HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received interesting reports from
R. S. Societies in Provo, Payson and Virgin,
which we are compelled to lay over until our
next issue, for want of space.
	ANOTHER NEWSPAPER whose local editor is
a woman, is now being published in Ogden.
Success to all women journalists whose object
is to assist in the diffusion of light and knowl-
edge, and the spread of truth.
	AMONG THE many distinguished visitors who
have passed through our city within the last
month, was Lieut. Carl Eugene Graf Von
Bismarck Boxlen, nephew of the celebrated
statesman.
	WE LEARN by a late private letter from
Kanab, Kane Co., that the health of the peo-
ple in general, in that locality, is good. Crops
are promising fairly, but later this season than
usual; and the peaches were mostly killed by
recent frosts.
	THE RELIEF Society Fair at Bountiful,
Davis Co., opened for one week on Thursday,
June 24th. The object, to obtain means to
build a Society Hall. Committee of arrange-
ments were Mrs. E. Barlow, Mrs. L. Sessions,
Mrs. M. J. Crosby, and Mrs M. Carter. They
displayed excellent taste in the arrangement of
the affair, and deserve great credit for their en-
ergy and enterprise, in rendering it so attrac-
tive.
	LAST EVENING, June 30th, closed the en-
gagement of the celebrated English opera. It
has been a rich treat for the music loving peo-
ple of Salt Lake. The opening performance of
"Il Trovatore," Thursday June 24th was some-
thing unparalleled in this locality. The dis-
tinguished character of the piece itself, and
the superb voices of the ladies and gentlemen,
who sustained the most difficult parts, together
with the charming and full choruses were all
calculated to inspire an enthusiastic admira-
tion for the divine art of music, in the atten
tive and appreciative audience.
	A LETTER from Mrs. E. S. Barney of this
city, who is traveling in company with Sisters
E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne, and E. Howard,
through some of the Southern settlements,
gives some  pleasing information concerning
their labors. The letter was dated June 22nd,
at Moroni, Sanpete Co., where they had held
a meeting with the sisters the previous even-
ing. President Young and several of the
brethren were present at the meeting. Pres.
Young spoke most encouragingly to the sisters,
and said he would appoint them a mission to
visit every settlement in Sanpete County and
see that they were properly organized and set
to work. A two days meeting was held by the
President and brethren in Fort Ephraim June
22nd, and 23rd.
	MR. AXTELL has scarcely had time allowed
him to form personal acquaintance with the
people and affairs of Utah, after being sent
here as governor, when, with no perceptible
excuse for change, he is removed to New
Mexico, and Judge G. W. Emery, of Tennessee,
is appointed to the governorship of this Terri-
tory in his stead. East and west, this move-
ment is looked upon with a degree of wonder
and commented upon by the press; various
opinions are advanced, but like other political
ransactions in relation to Utah. it is not

[Column 2]
clearly understood by any one. It is, how-
ever, certain that the people of Utah have
need to learn correct principles, and wisely
govern themselves, for they are obliged to take
their governors as they are sent, one after an-
other, whether they prove to be good, bad or
indifferent. Judge Emery, we believe, bears a
fair character, and we hope will prove a wise,
and judicious governor.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the favor of a circular
from the Deseret University of 1874—5, from
Dr. J. R. Park, Principal. Many thanks for
the same. The Spring term of this institution
closed June 22nd. After the examining exer-
cises the teachers were presented by the pupils,
with some elegantly bound volumes of poems.
J. F. Wells made a few appropriate remarks
on the presentation, which received an affec-
tionate response from the principal, in behalf
of the recipients. The following term will
commence Aug. 23rd. The University Reading
Rooms will be closed during vacation. Ar-
rangements are being made for holding a Nor-
mal or Teachers Institute in this city under
the auspices of Supt. Riggs, to be conducted by
Dr. J. R. Park, whose success and experience
are so widely known. The design is to give to
the teachers of the territory, a thorough know-
ledge of the best methods of instruction. It is
expected to open Aug. 2nd, and close Aug. 
14th, 1875.
	THE AMATEUR exhibition of Miss M. E. Cook's
Graded School, which was under the direction
of her assistant Miss Emma Wells, was a
pleasant and interesting affair. The pro-
gramme contained a charming variety, music,
singing, recitations etc. One scene, from
Henry the IV was creditably rendered by the
young Misses. Charade, The Sleeping Beauty
in which the little ones did splendidly; Miss
Edith Clawson the young prince. Miss Mabel
Young the enchanted princess, Miss Lulu
Wells the Kings' jester; each displayed con-
siderable talent in a small way. Misses Lulu
and Callie Wells sang "Beautiful Gates Ajar,"
very sweetly. Miss Annie Wells read a vale-
dictory. Miss Belle Pugsley for, and in behalf
of the principal, presented some very fine
volumes of poems to the teachers, as a tes-
timony of her esteem and satisfaction. Miss
Cook has been untiring in her efforts to train
and instruct these young lady teachers and
bring them up to her standard of systematic
teaching. It is anticipated Miss Cook will go
East soon on a visit to her friends.
	IN OUR number of June 15th, several items
of Home Affairs were necessarially omitted,
which would not now possess the same amount
of interest; but the anniversary of the birthday
of our worthy President Brigham Young, cannot
fail to be pleasing to our readers, even though a
month has passed. Mrs. M. Dougal, and Mrs,
P. Beattie, (two of his married daughters) ar-
ranged a surprise party at the Lion House, in
honor of their father's seventy-fourth birthday
the first of June 1875. The programme was in
perfect taste, and the re-union was particularly
pleasant and satisfactory. A sumptuous and
elegant dinner was spread, for about one hun-
dred and fifty persons, all of them children,
grand children, and near relatives. A magnifi-
cent cake was presented to him on the occasion,
which they deferred cutting until the birth-
day of Mrs. M. A. Young, June 8th. We most
respectfully wish him many happy returns of
the day, with health and strength to enjoy the
blessings of life, and that he may live to see
his most sanguine hopes realized in the build-
ing up of the Kingdom of God upon the earth. 
	We would also mention here the anniversary
of the birthday of our Presiding Bishop, Edward
Hunter. June 22nd, he was eighty-two years
old. We congratulate him on reaching such a
venerable age, so hale and hearty, and wish
him as many more years of practical usefulness,
as his hospitable and generous nature could de-
sire.


