FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are now in Milan, it is said, 300
American girls studying with a view to the
operatic stage.
	THE total losses by fires in the United
States and Canada during May, were $9,
384,800; to the insurance companies $4,385,
100: by specials $5,455,100; and by specials
to insurance companies $2,600,800.
	THE quarterly returns of consular fees
show a marked decrease for the fiscal year.
Hitherto these fees have aggregated $600,
000 annually. The probable decline for this
fiscal year will be $100,000.
	THE 8th regiment United States cavalry,
which has been stationed in New Mexico
for the past four years, and the 9th cavalry,
which has been in Texas six or eight years,
are to relieve each other.
	GREAT preparations are making at Paris
for the Pilgrimage to Parao-le-Monial,
which begins on the 16th inst., in honor of
the anniversary of the pope’s session, and
it will, without doubt, be the largest for
many years. 
	THIRTY-seven hundred packages of
smuggled cigarettes were seized on the
steamer, City of Mexico, recently.
	THE Hartfords defeated the Yale college
nine at New Haven, June 15th, 12 to 2, and
the Philadelphias the St Louis Red Stockings
at St. Louis, 4 to 3. The New Havens are
reported to have disbanded. They forfeited
a game to the Hartfords at New Haven, re-
cently.
	A SETTLEMENT has been made with Mrs.
Sinclair, the divorced wife of the late Ed-
win Forest, who claimed arrears of ali-
mony and a dower interest in the real es-
tate at New York, Philadelphia and else-
where, and she receives $100,000—a $75,000
mortgage on the Mount St. Vincent prop-
erty at New York and $25,000 in cash.
	The commission to treat with the Sioux
Indians has been increased to eight mem-
bers, and now comprises Senator William
B. Allison of Iowa, Bishop E. R. Ames of
Maryland, ex-Congressman Frank W. Pal-
mer, editor of the Chicago Inter-Ocean,
Brig Gen. Alfred H. Terry, commanding in
Dakota, ex-Congressman Abram Comingo
of Misiouri, Rev. S. D. Henman of Dakota,
G. P. Beavers of Missouri and J. R. Obeine
of New York. Joe. W. Dwyer has been ap-
pointed secretary. The commission has re-
ceived a lot of instruction the substance
of which is that they are to try to make the
best bargain they can with the red-skins,
but the commissioner of Indian affairs—and
a great many other people—doubt whether
any satisfactory settlement can be made.
Each member while on duty gets $8 per
day and necessary expenses.


CORNELL UNIVERSITY is rapidly in-
creasing in fame. The Sage building will
be completed ready for opening in Septem-
ber.  It is 176 feet in length and 162 wide.
It will contain a museum, laboratory, with
several music and lecture rooms; and will
be lighted with gas and warmed by steam.

	AN ADDRESS was delivered to the cadets
at the close of the graduating exercises at
West Point Military Academy, by Secy.
Belknap, June 16th. Afterwards the cadets
were called up in order of merit, and re-
ceived their diploma from the Secretary of
War. Conclusion of the exercises was the
reading of the order of the day.  The grad-
uates numbered forty-three.  President
Young's son, Willard, stood fourth in order
of grade.


