A MODOC AT CHURCH.

	One tolerably good thing is reported of
that small section of the Modoc tribe now
on a tour throughout the country at the ex-
pense of and for the profit of two or three
white men.  One of these Indians recently
taught several small boys how to conduct
themselves in church.  The Indians, it
seems, took Lexington, Ky., in their tour
and chanced to be there on a Sunday, when
several of them attended the Baptist Church
to observe the white man's way of propitia-
ting the Great Spirit and smoothing the
way to the happy hunting-grounds. As a
matter of course where the Indians were
there were the small boys also, and a com-
pany of the youths managed to secure seats
directly in front of the noble red men where
curiosity could be thoroughly gratified.
When the sermon began the boys turned
round and stared at the Indians uninterupt-


edly, never flagging a bit in the gaze of
open-mouthed wonder. The Indian, as a
rule, is stoical, but he was not stoical enough
to endure the gimlet look of these boys,
which became, finally, unendurable.  One
of the Modocs, forced to action, leaned sud-
denly forward and seized a boy's head as
though he wanted a scalp, but he didn't
make any attempt to secure that trophy.
He simply twisted the boy's head around
until it looked in the direction of the min-
ister, and at the same time a significant ges-
ture to the other boys caused them to look
the same way.  Never did boys pay better
attention to a sermon than those of Lex-
ington during the remainder of the exercis-
es, and the Modoc demonstrated that he
had in him big material for a Sunday-
school superintendent.—"St. Louis Republi-
can."


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.
	MRS. Stanton gives some logical reasons
why women do not accomplish as much
work as men; in short she boldy asserts,
they are not dressed to work, but to kill.
	DONNA Maria, the wife of Don Alfonzo,
is described as being slim and fair-haired,
with lively, dark blue eyes; the reverse of
the Amazon she might be supposed to ap-
pear.
	IN Australia at the University of Mel-
bourne, ladies are admitted to pass the mat-
ricultural examination. Out of three hun-
dred candidates for admission fifty-seven
were ladies. This is a good recommenda-
tion for the women of that country.
	MISS Emily Faithful in speaking of so-
ciety and industry in Paris, says that a per-
fect equality exists between the sexes in 
business matters. Women keep hotels, fac-
tories, shops and are often the efficient busi-
ness partners of their husbands.
	QUEEN Victoria's fifty-sixth birthday
which was the first week in June was cele-
brated throughout England and the United
Kingdom, and by Englishmen generally in
the different countries where they were re-
siding. This amiable and excellent Queen
has reigned nearly thirty-eight years, being
a longer period than that of any other sov-
ereign in Europe.
	MADAME Bonaparte of whom we gave
our readers a brief sketch a short time since,
is attracting the attention of some of the
"literati" on account of her writings. Re-
cently she was offered $10,000 for her man-
uscript volumes, but the old lady refused to
sell them at any price. For forty years she
 has kept a diary constantly; it is supposed
she has written much of society, both in
Europe and America during these years,
which cannot fail to be entertaining, and re-
port says she is severe in sarcasm. It is
most probable her writings will be published
after her death.
	MISS Sarah Clarke, sister of James Free-
man Clarke who resides in Rome, is em-
ployed upon a series of sketches of the pla-
ces visited by Dante and mentioned in his
writings. She has visited in person all these
places; the work has occupied her for the
last four or five years, involoving a vast
amount of study, research and travel. The
work was ordered by Mrs. Mitchell of Mil-
waukee wife of the Congressman. An-
other copy of the same series is also
being made for Lady Ashburton, and the
intention is to have the designs etched so
as they can be engraved. Miss Clarke has
an artistic apartment overlooking the
grounds of the Barberini Palace.
[Column 2]
	MISS F. Mann, of Philadelphia, was one
of the victims of the fearful wreck of the
Schiller. She was returning to Germany to
pursue her art studies at Munich. She is
said to have possessed rare genius, and
would probably, have been most successful
as a portrait and historical painter; added to
this she was endowed with considerable
musical talent, and superior intelligence.
She was of an amiable and interesting char-
acter, qualified to adorn and benefit the cir-
cle in which she moved. She was only
nineteen years of age. Her death was truly
a sad bereavement and she will be most sin-
cerely mourned by all who had the pleasure
of knowing her.
	MRS. M. M. Elliot of Minneapolis, Minn.
delivered an original poem at the celebra-
tion of Decoration Day in that city. The
people of Minnesota seem to possess a liber-
al feeling for the rights of women, in se-
lecting one for the poet of the day. Her
eloquence and style, as well as the poem it-
self, appear to have been truly appreciated
by all present. This is something a little
out of the ordinary channel, and is another
proof of advancement of the cause of wo-
man.
	LADY Murchison, wife of the late Sir Rod-
erick I. Murchison was certainly a very su-
perior woman, and seemed to have exerted
an influence, which animated her husband
to successfully pursue those pursuits which
eventually brought him fame, title and mer-
ited distinction. At the time of their mar-
riage he was a Captain of dragoons, and had
seen some real service at the battle of Ve-
meira. After his marriage he sold his com-
mission, and thought of going into the
church, and taking a country parsonage; sim-
ply because he was fond of riding after the
hounds, a privilege allowed to the Vicar,
and his wife was fond of botany, gardening,
and ministering to the poor. But the wife
would not be content, her aspirations were
above cas socks, so she persuaded him to go
on a tour through Italy, Switzerland and
the Alps, where he found that he loved Art,
and that his sphere in life, was in the physi-
cal research and observations of nature. Af-
ter their return to England, they spent a
vast amount of time out of doors, she in
sketching and botanizing, while he accumu-
lated facts, examined into causes etc. He
afterwards became a celebrated geologist,
the rival of some of the most eminent men,
co-workers in this field of labor, and the
discover of the Silurian system.


Two young men out riding were passing
a farmhouse where a farmer was trying to 
harness an obstinate mule. "Won't he
darw?" said one of the men. "Of course,"
said the farmer, "he'll draw the attention of
every fool that passes this way." The young
men started along.
	Sidney Smith once said: 'I remember
once making a joke after a meeting of the
clergy in Yorkshire, where there was a Rev.
Mr. Buckle, who never spoke when I pro-
posed his health. I said he was a buckle
without a tongue. Most persons on hear-
ing it laughed, but my next neighbor sat
unmoved and sunk in thought. At last, a
quarter of an hour after we had all done, he
suddenly nudged me exclaiming, 'I see now
what you meant, Mr. Smith? You meant a 
joke!' 'Yes sir, I said, 'I believe I did.'
Upon which he began laughing so heartily
that I thought he would choke, and I was
obliged to pat him on the back.—Ex.


