			R.S. REPORTS.

	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of the Senior
and Junior Retrenchment Associations in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
June 12, 1875, was one calculated to im-
press all present with the importance of
moving forward in the cause of Home In-
dustries.  The speakers seemed endowed
with the spirit of this most esssntial under-
taking.
	President Mrs. M. I. Horne first arose and
in a very earnest manner expressed her
gratitude to God, that she was permitted to
live in this day, and share in all its bless-
ings and privileges.  She referred to the 
Saviour's parable of the net that was cast
into the sea which brought forth fish of all
kinds, and likewise to the parable of the
virgins, some of whom were asleep or un-
prepared, while others were ready to meet
any emergency.  She thought these say-
ings very applicable to this people; urged
the sisters to arouse themselves and exert all
their energies to assist in building up the
kingdom of God, that they might be among
the chosen.  Counselor Z. D. Young follow-
ed with remarks in the same channel, re-
ferred to the community being in a state of
bankruptcy, and that it was in consequence
of importing and not exporting; said it was
the same in other places upon the same
principles; spoke of young people being
flattered and led away by those who did
not believe in our faith, and the responsi-
bility of mothers.  She said it was once
asked of Joseph Smith how he governed
his people, he answered that he taught them
correct principles and they governed them-
selves.
	Counselors E.R. Snow said she felt to say
God bless all those who were starting out even
in a small way and endeavoring to build up

[Column 2]
Zion, but there were few comparatively who
were willing to advance in the undertaking
of being self-sustaining.  She remarked that 
Sister Horne, Sister Barney and herself
were appointed as a committee to obtain
means to purchase machinery to commence
weaving silk; but they had found very few
who were willing to donate unless there
was money in it; filthy lucre had been the
watchword in the world, and now it had be-
come the watchword among the Saints; if
this had not been the case there would have
been millions of mulberry cuttings put out
this spring, and the silk culture would have
been progressing.  She said it was just as a
brother had dreamed, the saints were asleep,
she was thankful there were a few who
came to that meeting, but how very few
compared to the large number of the
saints.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney told the people that
Br. Schettler had mulberry leaves for those
who wished them, and at Br. Piper's there
was a young man who could impart all nec-
essary instruction relative to silk culture.
She felt as Sister Snow did, that all who
would step forward in these branches of
Home Industries would prosper, Baby-
lon would surely fall and then we would be
compelled to resort to home-made, there-
fore it was necessary to make a commence-
ment.
	Br. Wm. Smith who was present ad-
dressed the sisters upon the subject of
mothers teaching true and correct princi-
ples to their children and the bearing it
would have upon them in after life, intro-
duced the subject of faith and of minister-
ing properly to to the sick, prayed God to
bless the sisters and assist them in their
laudable undertakings and expressed his
heart-felt gratitude for being permitted to
come and listen to their instructions.

			SMITHFIELD, May 31st, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Our annual meeting was held May 12th.
After singing and prayer, the Treasurers
report was presented, and accepted.
	President E. T. Morehead made remarks;
was satisfied with the labors of the Society;
exhorted those present to be faithful and to
use their influence for the building up of
Zion, that the people might become self-sus-
taining &c.  Forty-eight sisters were re-
ceived as members of the society.  Several
articles were read from the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. Coun. Adaline Barber made re-
marks; also Sisters Rebecca Roskelly, Jemi-
ma Garnet, and sister Hendrick, from
Richmond.  All spoke well, exhorting those
present to be faithful, to keep in mind their 
duties as Latter-day Saints, spoke of the
blessings in store for those who endure to
the end.
	President Mrs. Morehead then organized
a Retrenchment Association with Adaline
Barber as President.  There are eight Coun-
selors, eight teachers, a Sec'y and Treasur-
er in the organization. I presume their 
Secretary Sarah Ellen Longton, will send
you a report. 		JANE S. COLEMAN.

		PROVO CITY, June 15th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	One or two brief items, in relation to the
progress of the Relief Society of the Fourth
Ward of this city, I submit to you as proof
of the unfaltering labors of the sisters of
this ward.
	In May last, the Seventh Annual Meeting
of the Society was held in the Fourth Ward
School House.  Sister Ruae A. Holden pre-
siding; the meeting was addressed by Pres.
Holden for some time, in her usual pleas-


[Column 1]
﻿ant and instructive manner, closing by con-
gratulating the sisters for their liberality in
supplying the wants of the poor in the ward,
and leaving a respectable surplus in the
treasury. Several other sisters followed
with appropriate remarks in regard to the
duties and mission of the female members
of this Church.
	The Secretary read the annual report of
the finances, which showed that the Society
was in a prosperous condition.
	Considerable means has been contributed
for the purpose of erecting a suitable house
for holding meetings, to work in &c; which
will, we hope, be completed this season.
	We regret very much the absence of Sis-
ter L. W. Kimball, who is now living at
Santaquin. With an-earnest prayer for the
success of the EXPONENT, I remain,
					Respectfully,
		MARGARET A Cluff Secretary.

		WEST WEBER, May 26th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking that is quite time
some of the sisters should write and let
your readers know how we get along in
this part of the vineyard of the Lord. We
meet every four weeks; although our busi-
ness operations are small, we try to cucour-
age each other in the great and good work
we have engaged to assist in.  I feel that
we need a great deal of charity one to-
wards another, that the strong should bear
the infirmities of the weak and try to en-
courage them with kind and gentle words,
and by performing little acts of kindness to-
wards them.  Our president sister Mary
Douglas gives us good, motherly instruc-
tion from time to time.  Our young sis-
ters are getting along well.  And our Sun-
day school under the Superintendency of
Brother Nathan Hawkes, is flourishing
finely.  Your Sister, &c.
