      IS IT NEVER TO BE REMOVED?

	Mrs. Emily B. Spencer, in her first letter
to the EXPONENT has said: "I think a great
deal of the strong minded principles of the
Gentiles are creeping in among us."
	And in the second letter, speaking of the
Woman's Rights movement in the States,
she says: "Some of their ideas are good,
some are simply ridiculous, and some are
pernicious and directly contrary to the gos-
pel. The idea of women educating them-
selves practically, and mentally, is excel-
lent; while to encourage woman in wearing
or imitating the dress of  man is ridiculous,
and the theory they uphold that woman is
equal with man, and has just as much of a
a right to govern man, as man has to gov-
ern woman, is wrong."
	Now, how are we to judge what portion of
the strong minded principles of the out side
world, Mrs. Spencer thinks is creeping in
among us? May we not hope, and have we
not occasion to believe that it must be the
one correct principle to which she alludes, a
higher type of education for woman than
she has been wont to consider necessary for
her to obtain? I have never known of
man's dress for woman, or anything approx-
imating thereso, having been advocated
among Latter-day Saints. Nor is it the
opinion of anyone believing the true Gos-
pel, so far as I am aware, that woman should
rule or govern man.
	But according to the teachings of our best
recognized authority, every good wife
should stand as a counselor to her husband;
not to direct, but to counsel in righteous-
ness.
	(Realizing the truth of those words of
the ancient prophet, that "in a multitude
of counselors there is safety," the above
theory, probably, is one reason why our
whole hearted Mormons are willing to ex-


ist in the midst of a multitude of wives.)
	Mrs. S. says:  "The Lord told woman in
the garden of Eden, her husband should
rule over her, and that, with the rest that
was told her, has descended to her daugh-
ters, and we are not exempt."
	All this is true enough, but was the sen-
tence never to be revoked? I have an idea
that the curse that was placed upon Eve by
a merciful and loving Father, was not de-
signed to stand unmitigated, unalterable for-
ever. And although Mrs. S. "feels no more
of the sun's rays now than years ago, no
more liberty, no more freedom," and ques-
tions "What liberty has burst upon us sud-
denly?" It appears to me very forcibly
and plainly, that since the Gospel light
beamed upon the world in this dispensa-
tion, one of the prime objects of those who
have received it in spirit and in truth, has
been the real elevation of woman, the cer-
tain placing of her in her proper sphere.
And is it not given to those who have re-
ceived the true light, to diffuse its genial
rays over the whole earth, that all who will
may learn the ways of the Lord, and all na-
tions be blest?
	What higher, purer, holier cause can we
ascribe to the bestowal by God and the ac-
ceptance of His people, of the revelation
concerning Celestial Marriage, than that the
condition of woman, as it was, might be
improved? Think of it.
	Do not the elders tell us now, that the
young ladies in our midst have power to do
what they cannot, with all their preaching,
teaching and exhorting, in the matter of
"putting down round dancing," leading the
young men to seek true culture, morality
and refinement? Our honored Prophet and
leader has himself said that "The Relief
Societies can take hold of the home indus-
tries and make co-operation a success; and
thus bring about the United Order. Does
that sound as though woman should be con-
sidered so very much inferior to man?
	I do not wish to be understood as one ad-
vocating woman's right to rule. But I
mean this, which was written years ago by
an older and wiser woman than myself:
	"I have apologies to offer here
	For Gentile ladies who disclaim their sphere/
	Having obtained enough of truthful light—
	To see life's strange perversion of the right;
	They seek with noble, yet misguided aim,
	Corruption and abuses to reclaim;
	But all their efforts to remove the curse
	Are only making matters worse and worse.
	They could as well unlock without a key,
	As change the tide of man's degeneracy;
	Without the holy priesthood, 'tis at most.
	Like reck'ning bills in absence of the host."
									Inez.


