Give Thanks Alice Morrey Bailey Not alone give thanks for heaped-up apple bins, Spice-laden air and heavy tables spread; for wealth, Nor yet for new things?lighting, comfort, thrills and speed; But for things as old as life?for love, for health, Relationship to humans; creatures, trees; for time; For beauty, color, sound?paths to infinity; For joy, the right to choose; birth, life, and even Death?each thing a kinship with Divinity. OR the right to choose particularly give thanks, and for the traditional freedoms upon which a full life is based. It makes little difference whose life we may discuss, in what country he may live or the form of government of that ' country, the desire for freedom to choose, to pattern our life, to live in harmony, in helpful relationship one with another is innate in man and has been through the ages. Unfortunately there have been periods in history when the world lived in spiritual darkness, when the written word,' the inspired brush, the creators of masterpieces were stilled by universal confusion, but following each such period a renaissance brought about a re-awakening of creativeness; and it is not too much 'to say that a thankfulness was the primary influence. To give thanks, to express appreciation for much or little is a divine attribute. A consciousness of a debt of gratitude to a supreme Deity, to some greater force than man's, has been manifest in man since the earliest recorded history. Festivals have had a religious significance in pagan as well as Christian civilization?and no festivals have been more universally observed than those having to do with a full Page 752 larder. Thanksgiving is not as young as 1621, nor has it been confined to the New World; its origin was not with the handful of Pilgrims who gave thanks solemnly and austerely to Almighty God for deliverance from the Indians and for a harvest that would tide them over until another spring. The festival of plenty had been joyfully celebrated many centuries before, and by races nowise our ancestors. An abundant harvest should be cause for joy, for rejoicing, and should be celebrated even as it is now with sports, great gatherings, and appropriate programs. It should be a day of contemplation, a time fer an accounting of blessings because man has been guided to a control of the seasons, to rotated crops, to scientific husbandry? which in themselves are abundant reasons for giving thanks. To till the rich valley of the Nile with a forked stick as the Fellaheen does, to tend a terraced, hill-side rice crop as the Oriental does, are two instances of farming technique which have not changed since the. Most ancient of times. One can visualize the olive crop being harvested in the Holy Land as it was in Jesus' time, the date crop being gathered in Asia Minor as it was in GIVE THANKS the time of Caesar, the herds of the East being tended as they were in the time of the prophets?yet all these people had thanksgiving festivals, and they still have them in gratitude for bodily sustenance. OW grateful we should be for " our understanding of thanksgiving, for human relationships that make for brotherhood, for a scheme of life that includes the stranger within our gates and the unknown who may be benefited by our contribution to his well-being, however far removed from him we may be. Not all people have their sense of gratitude developed to the same degree, nor do all people think in terms beyond their own sphere. Not all people can forget their personal aims; but in the mass, man must and will recognize those whose toil has made a contribution to his comfort. We may care little for the Indian and his llama in the Andean heights; we may not appreciate the primitive savage who brings a ball of latex to the trader in South America, nor his brother who brings raw medicines out of the impassable jungle, but each has his festivals of thanksgiving, and each has made an essential contribution to our well-being. Surely there is no 753 land nor people who have not just cause for feelings of gratitude. That man is poor indeed who does not strive to see a world picture in what he eats, wears, or uses in his daily life. To trace origins, to know sources is a fascinating study. Our children should be taught that much of the leather for their shoes is produced by people other than their own; that much of their clothing comes from a foreign country. Mothers should be interested in knowing the source of the skins from which their gloves are made. One might continue endlessly an interesting tale of man's dependence upon man, and upon a scheme of distribution which has not changed since prehistoric man traded sheep and goats with his neighbor for grain; when weights and values, even currency, were instituted; when friendships were made because one's neighbor contributed a necessity and in making that contribution overcame any possible differences that might have arisen. Let us be thankful that to give thanks in daily deed, or even enmasse on a day of festival, is among the oldest of man's customs; and may we individually recognize that to be grateful is a divine attribute.