Mental Health Through Recreation A WARTIME FORMULA Mark K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School
PERSONAL happiness is usually an indication of good adjustment. Conversely, happy living usually facilitates making good adjustments. People who are chronically unhappy cease to attempt to make good adjustments; and the more they fail to adjust to difficult problems, the more unhappy they become. High morale is found in people who have a feeling of emotional well-being, which springs from working hopefully and cooperatively toward some worth-while goal. But it is not easy to keep happy when we are not "getting on" with our high purpose. When we become unhappy about the outlook of the world, we may begin to make poor personal adjustments which simply aggravate our unhappy plight. In our family relationships, we may become irritable and careless about our responsibilities toward each other. We may, likewise, neglect our obligations toward the Lord and our fellow men. The effectiveness of our war effort?collectively and individually?has much to do with how happy or depressed we are these days. We dealt more fully with this problem in our previous discussion of the role of work in maintaining morale. However, our work effort to be most effective must be tempered by periodic releases. In times of great stress and tension, our diversions and recreations, therefore, assume a new importance. The unhappy state 
of affairs in the world today makes doubly important the need for appropriate recreation in order to maintain a proper perspective and working effectiveness. We cannot arbitrarily prescribe a universal form of recreation that will serve everyone equally well. The reason for this becomes clear as we consider the psychological meaning of recreation. Enjoyment usually comes through the release of mental tension. The tension may result from strenuous application to a difficult task or problem, or it may be simply a restlessness that comes from the monotony of our routine?boredom with tasks or even the boredom of idleness. Any change of activity which gives us a sense of release and the accompanying pleasure might be called recreation. But since the mental tensions of individuals vary according to the nature of one's activities and personality, what is recreation to one may be work or boredom to another. The human personality, however, consists of four general types of behavior: the physical, the mental or intellectual, the social (including certain phases of the spiritual), and the emotional (also including certain phases of the spiritual). Seldom does one's work permit ample opportunity for all of these kinds of activity. Recreation comes through bringing into play those phases of personality not involved so much in one's work, and giving needed rest from the kinds of activity likely to
be overexercised at one's occupation. Therein comes the pleasure of release through well-selected recreation. Needless to say, the postman?whose work is mostly the rather specialized physical activity of walking?gets little recreation from hiking, mowing lawns, or even less related physical diversions. But he may be absorbed in a hobby like collecting postage stamps, or in amateur photography. Or he may lose himself reading detective stories into the "wee hours." The housewife may get much more enjoyment than her husband out of a dinner at a cafe or a friend's place, because it affords her a release from the monotony of preparing meals. Husbands, on the other hand, may not care so much for attending parties and dances as their wives do, because a man's work may bring him into considerable contact with people and keep him on his feet throughout the day, whereas these activities may be the very ones the housewife needs for diversion. A well-balanced recreational program provides the activities the routine of daily life does not provide. Examine your own daily or weekly program and classify each activity into the physical, social, mental, or emotional; then make up a program of recreation which gives you a rich and well-rounded life. Careful studies have revealed that high morale is found in people who have diversified interests, including suitable hobbies. However, not all persons need be advised to play. Play is no panacea for mental ills: sometimes play itself is a symptom of failure to adjust. It may be a retreat from reali- 
ties, an ostrich-like hiding of one's head in the sand. For recreation to be truly enjoyable, one must feel that he has applied himself well to his tasks and that play is a well-earned release from the tension of work, not an evasion from difficult tasks. Play should be a contributing means to overcoming difficulties, not a way of shirking responsibilities.
LIKE most every other aspect of our lives, recreation is undergoing a drastic revolution during the war emergency. American recreation had much room for improvement before the war, and now there is still greater need. We have become so dependent upon commercial recreation that we lack resourcefulness in filling our personal recreational needs. Too much of the commercial recreation is of the passive sort. All one need do is to be a spectator. Our picture shows, athletic events, car riding, and even some of our recreational reading, require very little active participation on our part. These forms of recreation, of course, have their value, but they serve only the need for passive enjoyment or relaxation. Certainly people living sedentary lives require more active participation. The automobile formerly played a vital role in our recreation. But now we are all challenged with a new situation. We must adapt to a condition which makes contacts with distant people more difficult; access to recreational centers and outdoor attractions is reduced. Young people are especially affected by the sudden drastic restriction of transportation. The problem of access to Church gatherings is also acute in sparsely populated areas. 
The challenge today is: "What can we do to keep up our spirits when our cups almost run over with new sorrows and apprehensions?" In a sense, we need not regret that our commercial recreations may be on the decline. They fostered our weakness to be satisfied with passive diversions and encouraged a form of mental laziness. A new day in which we may have to return to things of the spirit is dawning. Perhaps all our sacrifices will not be in vain if we discover new treasures of enjoyment in the things all around us that cost so little. We indicated above that the value of diversions is relative to the tensions one is under. This thought has important applications today. The person who has lain in bed with an affliction is overjoyed at his first step and his first look outdoors. There is more joy in the one lost sheep that is found than in the other ninety and nine. We may come to enjoy the rationed blessings of today with increased intensity. A short automobile ride under the difficulties of rationing will come to be a joyous treat, perhaps relatively as great as enjoyment of longer trips under more plentiful circumstances. With all of the speed and high-pressure entertainment of modern times, do you suppose we enjoy ourselves any more than our parents did at those old-time community or family outings a few miles away after a horse-and-buggy ride? Perhaps there is something fine in the close communal spirit of pioneer days that is worth reviving. We can usually walk to the parks or to nearby places for enjoyment, and we can learn to find new joys in simple
things. We can get acquainted with our next door neighbor, now that we can't visit distant friends each week. We can explore our back yards, basements, and attics for new opportunities to do things with our hands. Perhaps we might discover great enjoyment in a home or neighborhood musicale or in amateur theatrical evenings. After all, the abiding values that come from recreation are the changes in ourselves. These values are in no way related to their financial cost. Friendships need not consume anything, and the pleasures of friendship benefit at least two persons. Knowledge can be acquired without consuming much of anything but time. Construction hobbies may not be a waste, but actually a material contribution. Let us look for non-expendable values in this day of severe shortages. Hobbies contribute to the sum of our daily satisfactions in an interesting way. Happiness is closely associated with growth, or an expanding personal universe. The business man whose material worth is increasing finds joy therein. A mother whose little kingdom expands with each new little one, the student who finds joy in enlarging his mental stature through study, or the person who finds a new friend, a new book, or a new appreciation of music or art?these are they who find the happiness of growth. The new hobby may involve acquiring new skill or information, or a bit of material, or the unfolding of something one is making. The enjoyment becomes especially keen when the routine of one's life does not give one the satisfaction of growth or an expanding
universe. The hobby usually fills a physical, social, mental, or emotional need especially lacking in the routine of one's life.
LET us, then, explore for new gold mines of enjoyment in simple things. On the physical side are handiwork of all kinds?gardening, nature walks, and light physical games, to mention only a few. For our social needs, let us return to our local Church activities with new zeal, get acquainted with our neighbors, make a new friend, promote the pioneer communal spirit through appropriate social functions adapted to the emergency. Try to patch up an old animosity with an enemy, make love at home a "must" above all else, find a new spiritual love through prayer and supplication?do these things for emotional satisfactions. And for mental recreation, let us look into history, political science, and current events during this most interesting of all historical periods. You say you didn't like history at school? Have you tried reading it now that you are mature and every day is full of interesting 
historical changes? Then there are the treasures of literature, an enormously fascinating world to explore. Here you find companionship with the great of all ages?and if you do not like their company, you can set the book aside. Some people find great growth and enjoyment today through the study of science, especially interesting during a war in which science may tip the balance of victory. In fact, there are endless treasures of knowledge to explore: let your interests be your guides. One measure of a man is his breadth of interest. There is more faith in the broad view of realities than in hiding behind the cloak of ignorance. When we see the whole picture today, we begin to see that through the "blood, sweat, and tears" a new and better world is taking form. There is satisfaction now in anticipating the joyous day when this is all over and we begin to see people live normal lives and cease to suffer, when we begin the more pleasant but herculean task of reconstructing a better world, and when we once more unite with our loved ones.