NOTES FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Women Urged to Jake Advantage of Red Cross Classes ULLETIN No. 24, issued February 19, 1942 to all stake, ward, and mission Relief Society presidents, contained a partial list of classes provided by the Red Cross for training in various types of volunteer service. The General Board especially recommends that Relief Society women take advantage of Red Cross classes in home nursing which are provided in their communities, or which may be arranged for. These courses are highly recommended as being valuable to Relief Society women in the care of their own families. This training is particularly desirable at this time because of possibility of disaster or epidemic and because nursing service for civilians is being greatly curtailed. No charge is made for this instruction, and there are no age limitations or other restrictions. All women able to attend such classes which now are or may be available to them in their communities are urged to do so. The General Board also recommends the Red Cross classes for nurse aids which are open to women between 18 and 50 years of age who are high school graduates and who have time to give volunteer service after training. This course consists of 80 hours of instruction and practical training in hospitals and is therefore available only to women in the | vicinity of hospitals. Women interested in either the home nursing classes or the classes for nurse aids should make inquiry at their local Red Cross headquarters. Booklet on "Monthly Allowances for the Dependents of Soldiers" THE War Department, Allowance and Allotment Branch, has made available to stake and ward Relief Society presidents a copy of a new booklet Monthly Allowances for the Dependents of Soldiers. This booklet should be carefully preserved by _all Relief Society presidents for future use in helping to answer questions of families of service men, and in helping them to make application for allowances to which they are entitled under the Servicemen's Dependents Allowance Act of 1942. This booklet will also aid bishops and ward Relief Society presidents in evaluating the income and needs of families of soldiers who may apply for assistance. Copies of this booklet are being mailed direct by the War Department to stake and ward Relief Society presidents. Information on Salvaging Food Cans and Cloth Scraps, ) REPRODUCED ? are illustrated instructions for: preparing Page 780 and saving tin cans for collection by local salvage committees. Methods