Social Science What "America" Means Lesson 4 Constitution of the United States (Tuesday, February 23, 1943) We say that the Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner, it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun. (Documentary History of the Church, p. 304)?The Prophet Joseph Smith. HE two great constitutions of the world are the British Constitution and the Constitution of the United States. 'The British Constitution is what we call a Convention. It is not written in words, or enacted in a formal document, but it is a Convention. If asked to describe it, we would describe the Magna Charta, the Petition of Rights, the Bill of Rights, and other documents which together make the Constitution of the British Empire. These documents are written and modified and formed for the time. Our Constitution is very different. It is a single - document, the only one of its kind in history. Alexander Hamilton, a young man, saw that the colonies could not live together and work together without a common understanding of conditions of life. He. Took for his opportunity one of those small things, which have such great consequences in life, and called a convention ostensibly for the deciding of the controversy between Virginia and Maryland over the oyster fisheries in Chesapeake Bay. This issue was seized to start the Constitution by this able man, for when greater issues arose among the colonies, Hamilton advised the holding of a Convention to settle the issues for all the colonies. Cicero, an ancient Roman writer, wrote in his "Treatise on the Commonwealth" these words: "A state is a union of people, associated in an agreement of law and a community of interest." 'These words describe the spirit of the Constitution of the United States. Such a social community existed among the independent American Colonies when the Constitutional Convention met. Its ? delegates derived their commission directly from the people of this united social community, welding together the people of the states. This fact is well stated in a book entitled The Story of the Law by John M. Zane, a former resident of Salt Lake City. The colonists had many interests in common and were in a sense a nation before the Constitution was drafted, because the states were held together by the natural laws of community interests. 'The colonists had grown together in a natural way. As to their rights, they claimed the general rights of all Englishmen, because those rights were defined in the laws which they brought with them. The Constitutional Convention was a complete body of free persons united together for their "common benefit." This simple analysis concerning the spirit behind the Constitution as written by Mr. Zane makes clear to every American the sacredness of Lincoln's expression: "A government of the people, for the people, and by the people." The Convention which drafted the Constitution of the United States met at Philadelphia in May 1787. The place was Independence Hall, where the Declaration of Independence was written and given to the world. All the original. Thirteen states were represented except Rhode Island. The fifty-five delegates formed as notable a gathering of men as ever came together. There were George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, James Madison, James Monroe, Edmund Randolph, Gouverneur Morris, John Rutledge, Rufus King, Robert Morris, to mention only a few of the noted men. The LESSON DEPARTMENT Convention was organized and George Washington was made chairman. His speech of acceptance, though brief, was a forceful one. Said he: "It is probable that no plan we propose will be adopted. Perhaps another dreadful conflict is to be sustained. If to please the people we offer what we ourselves disapprove, how can we afterwards defend our work? Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair; the event is in the hand of God." | The delegates to the Convention fully appreciated the difficulties that confronted them. It was agreed that none of the debates be printed or otherwise published without special permission. For much of our knowledge of the proceedings of the Convention, we are today indebted to the copious notes of James Madison, published after his death. One of the early acts of the Convention was the adoption of a resolution "that a national government ought to be established consisting of a supreme Legislative, Executive, and Judiciary." The delegates were generally agreed that it was dangerous to entrust too much power to the people, and they were prepared to incorporate certain "safeguards" in the new government. "The evils we experience," declared Eldredge Gerry, "flow from the excess of democracy." The delegates as a whole favored a strong central government and restrictions on democracy, but as to ways of restrictions, the delegates were not all agreed. One group wished to make the states clearly subordinate to the national government; while the smaller states through their 811 representatives argued that the sovereignty of the states must be preserved. Two plans were offered for the consideration of the Convention: that of Peyton Randolph, known as the Virginia plan, and the New Jersey plan proposed by William Paterson of New Jersey. The one plan proposed a nationalist program, or a strong central government; while the other suggested the continuance of a league of states, each with sovereign rights, but each with increased power and authority. Asa result of these two views, the Convention agreed upon a legislature of two houses. The members of the lower house, or House of Representatives, were to be apportioned among the states on the basis of population, while in the upper house, or Senate, the states were to be represented equally. 'wo senators were to be elected from each state. All bills for the raising of revenue were to originate in the House of Representatives; otherwise the legislative power of the two bodies was equal. Thus "the great compromise," as this settlement has come to be known, established the national principle in the House of Representatives, while it preserved the equality of the states in the Senate. Other large questions arose in the Convention which had to be settled. One was that of slavery and the authority to regulate commerce, and often a middle ground had to be found for the solution of differences. When the document was completed and the time came for the signatures of the delegates, only thirty-nine remained to attach their names to the Constitution. It was then necessary to refer the document to the ratification of the states, and naturally its 812 merits and defects became topics of daily conversation. People who favored its adoption called themselves Federalists, while those opposed were called Anti-Federalists. 'The influence of the press, men of letters, and of the pulpit was thrown on the side of the Federalists. Many disapproved of the Constitution because it had no Bill of Rights for the protection of individual liberty. The first 'Ten Amendments to the Constitution were added in 1789, and these became known as the Bill of Rights. It was a monumental task which the Convention accomplished within four months, and time has proved the efficacy of their wisdom and knowledge. The Constitution provides for three departments of Government: 'The Law Making Body, or Legislative; the Law-interpreting Power, or the Judiciary; and the Law-executing Power, or the Executive Department. While there was a separation of powers, the members of the Convention provided an elaborate system of checks and balances. Each department of government was subject to check through the exercise of powers granted to the other departments. For example, a majority of Congress cannot make a law if the President disapproves, and the President cannot obstruct legislation if it be favored by two-thirds of the two branches of Congress. Congress can limit the power of the President by many laws which prescribe his duties, and the President can in turn obstruct the Congress in many of its measures. When you read the Constitution, you are impressed with its simplicity, ? and yet its depth of meaning as to human affairs is apparent... It was not written as an expression of mere political wisdom. It shows something of the influence of Divine power. During the summer when the Convention was thrown mote or less into turmoil by debate, Benjamin Franklin made a beautiful and touching appeal for conciliation, and said in one of the outstanding statements that was made during the Convention:; I have lived, sir, a long time, and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth: That God governs in the affairs of men. As the members of the Convention approached the table to sign their names, a gentle smile illumined Franklin's countenance, and later as the new Government was inaugurated, he passed away. As Beck says in his book The Constitution of the United States: Surely these men, morally as intellectually, were great in the unusual magnanimity of silence! There were giants in those days. Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. You should carefully read the Constitution of the United States. You will enjoy its simplicity and noble analysis of how our nation is governed. Like all great. Documents, it should be read and re-read. 2. What were the steps that led to the drafting of our Constitution? 3. In what other document of American history do you find the thought expressed in the Preamble of the Constitution? (Read again the Mayflower Compact as found in Lesson 2. 4. 'i hat is meant by checks and balances? Give example. 5. What are some of the basic principles of the First Ten Amendments, commonly called the Bill of Rights? 6. What department of our Government LESSON DEPARTMENT interprets the meaning of the Constitution? 7. Why do the Latter-day Saints hold the Constitution as a sacred document? 8. Do you know the name of the first great Supreme Court Judge who did so much to interpret the meaning of the Constitution in our early history? References Any one-volume history of the United States is your best help. Channing, History of the United States. Beard, American Government and Politics. Walker, The Making of a Nation. Woodburn, The American Republic. Farrand, The Framing of the Constitution of the United States. Wirth, The Development of America. Adams, The March of Democracy. See address on the Constitution given by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., General Conference, October 3, 1942, and published in The Deseret News, Church Edition, Saturday, October 17, 1942. % General Presidents of Relief Society (For optional use of Relief Societies in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons. ) Bathsheba W. Bigler Smith Fourth Relief Society President Lesson 4 (Tuesday, February 23, 1943) IN few cases have conversion to Mormonism brought so marked a contrast in manner of living as occurred in the Bigler family of West Virginia. Mark Bigler was a Southerner of Pennsylvania-Dutch descent, while his wife, Susannah Ogden, belonged to a well-to-do, aristocratic family in Maryland. Their home was spacious and hospitable and lively with the activities of seven children. Bathsheba, their young daughter, was well trained in the art of homemaking by her mother, a gentle, pious woman, an excellent housekeeper, and an artist at needlework. By association with her father, the girl developed executive ability. She rode a horse well, and frequently accompanied her father over his large estate, where he inspected houses and property, and directed his men in cultivating land and raising stock. Her parents were people of education who gave their children the intellectual advantages that were available. By environment and training Bathsheba acquired the social graces traditional with a wellborn a Southern girl. All these qualifications fitted her for her later leadership among women. Bathsheba was born in West Virginia, May 3, 1822. When at age fifteen she first heard the Mormon elders preach, she was so impressed 814 that she prayed humbly to the Lord. She felt His spirit come upon her and knew that the Gospel was true and that it was for her. The other members of the family were likewise converted and baptized, and henceforward the hospitality of the Bigler home was extended to the elders. One of them, George Albert Smith, cousin of the Prophet Joseph, a young man of fine appearance and character, fell in love with the queenly and beautiful Bathsheba. In the autumn of 1838, most of the Bigler family left to join the Saints in Far West. The father was coming later by water, with farm supplies and machinery. Bathsheba enjoyed the journey by wagon over hill and dale and prairie and through dense forests. But once in Missouri, the converts found that they had left the sunny friendliness of Virginia only to encounter the cold hostility and hatred of the Missourians toward the Mormons. All her life Bathsheba said, "Nothing was as bad as the Missouri persecutions." Near the Grand River, the Biglers camped overnight with some Saints from the East, but fortunately decided to take a different route from theirs to Far West. The other party was caught in the Haun's Mill massacre, where nineteen people were killed, many wounded, and some maimed for life. The Biglers settled on a farm a few miles from Far West. Three days after their arrival, Apostle David Patten, one of their own people, was wounded by a mob at Crooked River. He was carried to their home. Bathsheba heard his dying testimony of the truth of the Gospel, and his exhortations to his wife and all present to abide in the faith. Indicating ? that he held no grudge against anyone, he died in the true spirit of Jesus Christ. Bathsheba saw thousands of mobsters arrayed against the Saints, and heard their shouts and savage yells as they seized the Prophet Joseph to take him to Liberty Jail. She saw the Saints robbed, beaten, and forced to sign away their property. But she felt the spirit of the Lord sustaining and comforting His people, who knew that they were suffering for the Gospel's sake. [N the depth of winter, 1839, the Biglers, driven from their newly purchased farm, migrated with thousands of other Saints to Quincy, Illinois, where their father joined them. There both he and Bathsheba experienced their first illness, ague and fever, from which Mark Bigler died. In 1840, the saddened family moved to Nauvoo. In 1841, Bathsheba married George A. Smith, the youngest of the Twelve Apostles. He had recently returned from a two- ~ year mission to Great Britain. Mrs. Smith, only nineteen years old, was invited to attend the organization meeting of the Relief Society in Nauvoo. She was the youngest of the eighteen charter members, and the last of them to die. In 1846, Sister Smith, with her small son and daughter, joined the exodus from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters, where she lost, first, her mother, then an infant son, a few hours after his birth. Her husband accompanied Brigham Young and the original Pioneers into the unknown West. On his return he remained at Winter Quarters outfitting the departing companies until 1849, when he and his family journeyed across the plains. LESSON DEPARTMENT The Smiths were much better equipped than most of the Pioneers. Their wagon was called a "house on wheels." The floor was carpeted.. The cover was high enough for people to stand erect. A corded frame was used for a bedstead in the back of the wagon. In the center were four chairs. In one side of the wagon cover was a door, and in the other a window, which could be opened at will. On one wall hung a mirror, a candlestick, and a pincushion. In Utah, Sister Smith bore the usual Pioneer privations and difficulties, living in tents, wagons, huts, and performing heavy labor with her hands. In 1858, a comfortable, roomy home, which was also the Historian's Office, was built for her opposite the Lion House. When Johnston's Army was sent to Utah, Sister Smith joined the migration of Mormon women to the south. They had left straw around their houses with the order to apply the torch the moment the army came over the mountains. Fortunately this tragedy was averted, but the women remained away until their safety was assured. Mrs. Smith, in Provo at this time, spun wool by hand and wove it into jeans, linsey, and blankets. She spun and wove flax, and made it into table linen, sewing thread, and other necessities. She wove fringe and wool rugs, and braided rag carpets, besides making clothing, candles, and soap. When she returned to Salt Lake, she found her once lovely garden higher than her head with weeds. But the family made a new one, and she and the two children irrigated the orchard and gardens when their turn came to use the water. Often that was in the 815 middle of the night, and fearlessly she would arise and set to work, as her husband was absent frequently on Church work. In 1860, her only remaining son, George Albert, Junior, while on a mission, was killed by the Indians who were generally friendly but were just then seeking revenge for the reported slaughter of their squaws and papooses by white soldiers. Brother George A. Smith was first counselor to Brigham Young, and Sister Bathsheba associated with all the leading men and women of the Church, frequently ? entertaining them in her hospitable home. At one time, a large surprise party with an elaborate dinner was given there for Sister Eliza R. Snow. In 1876, Brother Smith died. Earlier, Sister Smith had written in her journal, "I believe that but few in the wide world have been as happy as we have been. We have no differences; our religion and our expectations are the same." After his death she wrote: "Good angels had come to receive his precious spirit, perhaps our sons." SISTER SMITH had been active in Relief Society as a ward teacher, treasurer, counselor, president, and as a stake officer; but after her husband's death, she did much more public work. In 1888, she became second counselor to Sister Zina Young, president of the Relief Society, and from 1901 to her death in 1910, she was president of that great organization. During that time, a department for mothers' work was introduced, and practical nurse service was increased and systematized so that the needy might 816 have free attention, and the women of small incomes might receive experienced help at moderate prices. Ward Relief Society conferences were introduced, and the Bishop's Building was completed, with headquarters for the Relief Society. That organization had contributed liberally to the cost of the building. Sister Smith traveled widely through the settlements of Utah, encouraging and counseling the Relief Society sisters, who honored and revered her. She was a dignified, intelligent, devoted woman, with deep spirituality and a loving heart of her people, the Latter-day Saints. She officiated at the ?t of the Nauvoo, Logan, and Salt Lake Temples, worked for seventeen years with ? Eliza R. Snow in the Endowment House, and with Zina Young presided over the women's department of the Salt Lake Temple. She herself presided over the women in the Salt Lake Temple for many years. She died September 20, 1910. References Handbook of Relief Society, p. 118 et passim Centenary of Relief Society, p. 11 et passim Woman's Exponent, ; "Presentation of Bathsheba W. Smith Portrait to Capitol," , , p. Pictures of: Handbook of Relief Society, p. Centenary of Relief Society, p- 11 et passim a In Retrospect (Continued from page 769) or to Oxford where American - Rhodes scholars are found, or even to beautiful and picturesque Edinburgh, the home of Scott?all easily accessible from London. Our visit to Oxford as guests of Chauncey Harris, a Rhodes scholar, and Meredith Wilson, a student at London University, both former students of the Brigham Young University, was chaise and interesting. To missionaries, whose first duty is to their special calling, there is not much time for sightseeing, but it was customary for us in the British Mission to have a few hours of 4 recreation weekly, when we tried to spend the time profitably. Release from. A mission brings mingled feelings. There is naturally joy in the thought of an honorable release to return to home and family; but there is, at the same time, regret at having to leave faithful friends and co-workers who have become so dear, and the familiar field of labor where some of the most soul-stirring and faith-promoting events of a lifetime have taken place. We sailed from Europe in , leaving countries overhung with war clouds and overwhelmed with anxiety. "SHALL THE YOUTH OF ZION FALTER" SHALL YOUTH FALTER? (Continued from page 755) Most parents are willing to make sacrifices as long as it is necessary if they feel that it is in the interest of their children. One of our chief troubles is that in trying to "be good" to the children we sometimes do things and grant them privileges that pamper and spoil them rather than develop strength of character. I am reminded of the good woman who came to Court and asked for help in controlling her sixteen-year-old daughter. She said she had worked and slaved all her life for her child; she had washed the dishes, scrubbed the floors, done the washing, and taken care of the. Cooking and housework so her child would not have to do so. She said she had worked hard all her life, and she was going to see that her daughter did not have to work as she had done. Now her health was failing, and when she asked the girl to assist with the work, she refused. The girl was staying out late at nights and going with undesirable companions, and she refused to listen to the advise and counsel of her mother and had now reached the point where she deliberately disobeyed her. The mother said she loved her daughter dearly. That was easy to understand, since love is based on sacrifice and service. But the question was asked, "What had the girl done to cause her to love her mother?" If our youth are to be expected to love their parents and to live up to the standards of the Church and to mature into good citizens, they must be taught from childhood those principles which tend to produce strength of character and loyalty to the family, Church, and community. It is said that a mother, after listening to a lecture on the rearing of children by a noted psychiatrist, went up to the doctor and told him that she was the mother of a five-year-old boy; that she wanted to put into practice what he had told her, and asked him when she should start. The doctor said, "Go home immediately and start to work, You are already five years late" starting the training program." The responsibility of parents in regard to rearing their children is set forth in the Doctrine and Covenants as follows: "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents... And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (D. & C. 68:25, 28) With the influx of population, particularly in defense areas, a more trying time is presented. Many of the people do not have the same standards which we possess. Our association with them will either cause us to lower our standards to conform to theirs, or to stand out as an example to them of the finest type of young manhood or womanhood. With the general lowering of the standards, due to the conditions 818 surrounding the war effort, it is going to be difficult for our youth to live up to the high ideals we expect of them. They must be encouraged and strengthened by the older members of our group. Parents and leaders must set proper examples in their living, both in what they say and do. They must be examples in honesty, loyalty, and in clean and virtuous living. A greater effort must be made to keep youth in the home at proper hours with good associates, and engaged in wholesome activity. Our bishops and leaders of auxiliary organizations have a splendid ? opportunity to provide a wholesome program of activity in wards. These activities should be so attractive that young people will enjoy attending them. If strangers come to join in these activities, there can be little harm because of the proper influence that will encourage all to conform to our standards. If we, as adults, parents, leaders, and citizens, do our part well, the youth of Zion shall not falter. We can continue to sing the song: We will work out our salvation We will cleave unto the truth, We will watch and pray and labor, With the fervent zeal of youth. 113th SEMI-ANNUAL CONFERENCE (Concluded from page 749) touching testimony was followed by a continuous stream of warm, heartfelt testimonies from all parts of the building until nearly four thirty in the afternoon when it was thought wise to adjourn the assemblage who had come fasting and praying in early morning to partake of the coming spiritual feast. It was a notable conference, the effects of which will be felt throughout the Church. It was another evidence of the vitality of the latter-day Kingdom of God, founded in truth. All who had attended left with strengthened assurance that the work established through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith is of God and the true way to happiness and salvation. The Saints everywhere will be anxious to read the full proceedings of the Conference. These will be published in full in the issue of The Improvement Era, and from time to time in the Church Section of The Deseret News. CHRISTMAS AT AUNT SALLY'S (Concluded from page 778) guests, and as Fanny proudly announced dinner, there was another surprise, for Mary's taxi was drawing up at the gate. Then followed a third explanation of the letters, before they were seated around the candle-lighted table and Fanny's supreme attempt was rewarded by unanimity as to the perfection of her dinner. As her three children were leaving that evening, each fora different city, Bill said, "Mother, I had forgotten what a beautiful old place this is!" - Rose added, "Won't you please invite us all out next Christmas? I am sure our young people would adore it!" And Mary's parting words with her good-by kiss were, " I haven't seen you look so young and happy for years." "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" In PRIVATE INDUSTRY or in GOVERNMENT OFFICES- ?you can serve better if you have been trained professionally for the job. Ee Ask for our "Bulletin of Information" L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah ATTENTION CHORISTERS "Messengers of Mercy" A Twelve Minute Cantata with Three Choruses "THRE "GALL" "THE MESSAGE" "THE CHALLENGE" Written for Singing Mothers in Three Parts by Minnie D. Warner and Gladys Rich Suitable for all Relief Society Programs Single copies 50 cents each Twelve or more copies 35 cents each Order From MINNIE D. WARNER A SUBSCRIPTION TO The Relief Society. Magazine AS A CHRISTMAS GIFT will be a year-round reminder of your thoughtfulness. A special Magazine gift card will be sent to the recipient of gift subscriptions when requested. Price $1.00 per year. Order from GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS: When You Move... Send us your NEW address, and also your OLD address, giving both name and address as it appeared on last Magazine received. Notify us of any changes AT ONCE, so that no copies of the Magazine will be missed. Magazines which are not delivered because we were not notified of change of address cannot be replaced without cost.