
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1882.	NO.1.


APPRECIATION.

TO MRS. E. B. WELLS:

The Editor, the Preacher and the Poet, 
	Must heroes be indeed;
Must dare to help the right must aim to know it;
	Must make the truth their creed.

Must speak their mind, must many wrongs decry;
	Must weigh their words most true, 
Must hit the mark, must hoist the banners high,
	Of truth and justice too.

On freedom's heights—must kindle beacon fires—
	That all the light may see, 
Must thrill humanity, with such desires,
	That all may nobler be.

Ne'er, must they lower truth's colors in dismay
	Or wear a mean disguise
Ne'er must they shun the thickest of the fray, 
	For there, their mission lies.

Princes, and presidents, and kings endeavor—
	To guide the helm of State;
The editors, the bards, the preachers ever—
	Bear up the social weight.

And whosoe'er defends an outcast people—
	Makes all the world his feos;
And more than human strength he needs, to equal
	The power he must oppose.

But every ordeal hath its compensation,
	The cross must win the crown;
And all are working out their own salvation, 
	Who help the trampled down.

The soul who would be greater than his brother, 
	Servant of all must be;
Must e'en rejoice, to benefit another—
	By his ability.

And happy must they be, or man or woman—
	Blest with the mind, the might—
The love! to lift up souls from cares so human—
	To help, whate'er is right.

Such is your lot; to cheer and comfort others;
	Nor should you have to ask—
The staunch support, of sisters or of brothers—
	To aid your needful task.

Is it not fit, that those who toll to bless us—
	Who, like the working bee—
For others gather up, the sweets most precious,
	Should have our sympath?

Many a mortal, bowed with care to sadness—
	Unequal oft would prove—
To useful effort, but for thanks and gladness—
	Received from friends they love.

And this is our desire, to cheer your spirit;
	To yield you honor too;
To shew appreciation unto merit, 
	For this 'tis right to do.

To help us all, has been your true endeavor,
	Sacred you've held your trust,
And hence, we hope you will be strengthen'd ever,
	To aid the cause most just. 

And may you still, "the Mighty One" rely on,
	To guide and crown your aim, 
And still may many honest hearts in Zion—
	Have cause to bless your name.

	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

	Mrs. Horne's early married life was serene
and happy. The young couple were well-
mated and worked together harmoniously, the
wife performing the duties of a young farmer's
wife, just starting out in life, without consider-
ing it a burden; no doubt love lightened labor,
for she had not been accustomed to milking,
and the various duties of a farm-house, but she
sought with a good will to make her home a

[Column 2]
pleasant one to her husband and to work for
their mutual interest.
	Only about one month of their wedded life
had passed, when they heard a rumor that a
man professing to be sent of God to preach to
the people, would hold a meeting about a mile
distant. Mr. and Mrs. Horne decided to at-
tend this meeting, and there they first heard
the sound of the everlasting Gospel, its sacred
truths proclaimed by Elder Orson Pratt; they
were pleased with his sermon, but little knew
what would follow, how the whole course of
their lives would be changed by receiving this
great light. Another meeting was appointed
at which Elder Orson Pratt stated that his
brother, Elder Parley P. Pratt, would preach
as business called him away. Mrs. Horne in-
vited her father and he consented to go; when
the time came he not only fulfilled his promise
to attend, but took all his family with him.
Mrs. Horne was greatly impressed, and being
conversant with the Bible could well appre-
ciate the arguments Elder Pratt used. He told
them that an angel had appeared to Joseph
Smith and restored the Gospel in its fulness.
Mrs. Horne's father was delighted with the
glad tidings and immediately left the Method-
ist Church and attended the Mormon meetings
altogether, and, in short, himself and family
were all baptized. It created quite a commo-
tion among the Methodists, and every argu-
ment possible was used by the ministers and
class-leaders to dissuade him and other mem-
bers of the family from accepting "the delusion."
Mrs Horne was baptized in July, 1836, by
Elder Orson Hyde, and ever afterwards her
house was a home for the Elders and a place
where meetings were held.
	Mrs. Horne's first children were twins, a girl
and a boy; the latter only lived a few hours.
We mention this as an instance, which will be
referred to again in connection with others of
a similar nature.
	In the latter part of the Summer of 1837, she
first saw the Prophet Joseph, also Sidney Rig-
don and Thomas B. Marsh. Mrs. Horne pos-
sesses a great degree of reverence for that which
is sacred, and when she beheld the Prophet she
rejoiced as women of old did,thanking God for
the privilege and that the desire of her girlish
heart, to associate with prophets and apostles,
was gratified. She says, "On shaking hands
with Joseph Smith I received the Holy Spirit
in such great abundance that I felt it thrill my
whole system from the crown of my head to the
soles of my feet. I had never beheld so lovely
a countenance; nobility and goodness were in
every feature. My husband and I accom-
panied the brethren in their visits to the diff-
erent branches of the Church then existing
in Canada."
	The testimony Mrs. Horne has given here
concerning her feelings when she first met
Joseph Smith, has been corroborated by hun-
dreds of others, who have solemnly declared
that they never had such peculiar emotions
when meeting any other person, as they ex-
perienced on meeting the Prophet and shaking
hands with him. This may be looked upon as
a testimony that he was called of God and
endowed with superior power.
	The Saints who had gathered to Kirtland
were about moving to Missouri; and in the
Spring of 1838, in the month of March, while
the weather was cold and disagreeable, Mr.
and Mrs. Horne bade farewell to their home,
where they had expected to remain permanent-

[Column 3]
ly, and with a small company of Saints started
for the land of Zion, the gathering place for
the people of God. The roads were very bad
at this season of the year and consequently the
young husband walked most of the time, Mrs.
Horne driving the team herself. Their faith
never wavered, but increased day by day.
	At Hunstville, about one hundred miles from
Far West, the little company of emigrants
stopped for a few months. At this place there
were several families of the Saints. Mrs.
Horne was here introduced to the parents of
the Prophet, Father and Mother Smith.
Father Smith was the Patriarch of the Church,
and under his hands Mrs. Horne received a
patriarchal blessing, which gave her much
comfort, although he told her that she would
have to pass through distressing scenes of
affliction, sickness, sorrow and tribulation; but
gave her a promise that the Lord would bring
her safely through; which she says has been
verily fulfilled. At this place, Huntsville, on
the 24th of July, shortly after having com-
pleted this long journey in a wagon, and
driving her own team much of the way, Mrs.
Horne had a son born to her. Her circum-
stances and surroundings were very different to
what she had anticipated in bearing a family,
but her courage was equal to the emergency,
her heart was brave and her faith in God was
strong and enduring.

To be Continued.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	I will now begin where I left off. My father,
Brigham Young, George A. Smith and Amasa
Lyman were on missions preaching in the south-
ern part of Illinois. The following extracts
are from a letter written by my mother, to
father; it is dated: Nauvoo, Oct. 16th, 1842.
	She says: "We still enjoy a comfortable
degree of health, though in the midst of sick-
ness and death. Sister Winchester told me she
saw four coffins carried by her house yesterday,
in one wagon—there are more or less buried
every day. Almost every family on the dis-
puted land are sick with a fever. Helen
watched last night where there were seven in
one family all sick—the woman nigh unto
death.	*	*	*	*
	"Sister Marinda Hyde is sick with chills and
fever. Brother Joseph and Emma were sick
when Bro. Brigham left. Emma was brought
down nigh unto death; Bro. Joseph despaired of
her life, he mourned over her and refused to be
comforted. But the Lord has spared her life
and she is now able to ride out. Joseph was
obliged to leave her before she was able to sit
up. He has left the place. I don't know
where he is, but suffice it to say they hear from
him occasionally, and all is well.	*	*	*
	"You mentioned my meeting you on your re-
turn home. I shall be happy to do so if cir-
cumstances will admit.	*	*	*
	"Our good friend S. (Sarah, father's other
wife) is as ever, and we are one. You said I
must tell you all my feelings; but if I were to
tell you that I sometimes felt tempted and tried
and feel as though my burden was greater
than I could bear, it would only be a source of
sorrow to you, and the Lord knows that I do
not wish to add one sorrow to your heart, for
be assured, my dear Heber, that I do not love
you any the less for what has transpired.


[Column 1]
neither do I believe that you do me; therefore
I will keep my bad feelings to myself, as much
as possible, and tell you the good. I can say
with propriety that the most of my time I feel
comfortable in my mind, and feel that I have
much to be thankful for. I realize that the
scenes we are called to pass through are calcu-
lated to wean us from the world, and prepare us
for a better one. My desire is to live while I
can be a comfort to you and to bring up our
children, for I don't know of a person on earth
that I should be willing to leave them with.
	"Brother Joseph felt it very keenly when he
thought his wife would not live. 'Oh dear,'
said he, 'what will become of my poor child-
ren?	*	*	*
	"Brother Joseph Kingsbury has buried his
wife to-day. She was confined yesterday. She
and child died within half an hour of each
other.	*	*	*
	"I must tell you a little of the prosperity in
Quincy. Sister Pinkham came up to fetch Br.
Adams; says there was a great turn out in
Quincy to hear him preach. The court house
was filled to overflowing, and many were be-
lieving; said she expected that Mr. Heywood
would be baptized when they returned, and
she did not know but his brother-inlaw, Kim-
ball, would also.	*	*	I must leave room
for Sister S. to write you a few lines.	*	*
	"I asked little David to-day, what I should
tell Pa; said he, 'Tell my Pa tum home see me.'
I must now bid you good night.
	"As ever, your affectionate wife;
					"VILATE KIMBALL."
	The family that my mother mentions where
I watched had lately come then from England
and were all laying sick in a house at the
steam boat landing. Katherine Walker, who
was living with Emma Smith, Diantha Farr
and myself sat up together. Joseph and his
family attended to them, and provided medi-
cines, watchers and whatever was needful, and
this was only one case out of many where he
acted as the "good Samaritan."
	Here is what my father's wife, Sarah, wrote
on the same sheet, though her name she with-
held because of the perilous times.
	"My very dear friend: Inasmuch as I have
listened to your counsel hitherto I have been
prospered, therefore I hope that I shall ever
adhere to it strictly in future.
	"Your kind letter was joyfully received. I
never read it but I receive some comfort and
feel strengthened, and I thank you for it. You
may depend upon my moving as soon as the
house is ready. I feel anxious as I perceive
my infirmities increasing daily. Your request
with regard to Sister Kimball I will attend to.
Nothing gives me more pleasure than to add to
the happiness of my friends; I only wish that I
had more ability to do so. I am very glad we
are likely to see you so soon, and pray that
nothing may occur to disappoint us. When
you request Vilate to meet you, perhaps you
forget that I shall then stand in jeopardy every
hour, and would not have her absent for worlds.
My mind is fixed and I am rather particular,
but still, for your comfort, I will submit.
						"I am as ever."
	It will be seen by the few lines written in
connection with my mother's letter that Sarah
Peeke Noon, who the Lord commanded through
his Prophet Joseph, that my father should take
to wife, was sealed to him, by the Prophet, as
early as 1842. Joseph Smith, who professes to
be his father's successor, has (in an anti-"mor-
mon" meeting, lately held in Chicago, a city
noted for its crimes, and the deepest dens of
infamy and corruption, the description, which
was lately given by a Rev. in that city, is so
soul sickening that it may well be called the
Sodom of the west; which is ripening so fast
that it may soon be wrapped again in another
consuming fire) declared that it was not until
1852 that polygamy was attempted to be in-

[Column 2]
troduced in the teachings of the church, and
that its introduction was a shameless trick of
wicked men, who were obliged to find an ex-
cuse to cover up their crimes."
	He must be blind not to see that his own
tongue has condemned him, not only as an un-
inspired leader, but an unprincipled enemy to
his own father's house. For he says, "In 1855
he began a crusade on his own hook, and in
1860, when he entered public life, it was with
the avowed determination to oppose polygamy
evermore."
	Now what man of God ever went to work on
his own hook,or even thought to set up his own
will independent of revelation from on high?
	The man, whoever he was, who told Elder
Joseph Smith that if an angel were to come
down from heaven and tell him polygamy was
wrong he would not believe the angel, was just
as much of an impostor as the Prophet's son,
who made the following reply, "I would believe,
but I would tell the angel to go to some one
else, for I would not preach the doctrine."
	A poor captain and soldier of the cross he
would make to stand as his father's representative
to carry out the purposes of the Almighty, for
which the Prophet was willing to suffer with
his people, and endure every kind of persecu-
tion, imprisonment and death, for the sake of
the religion which his son Joseph, under the
inspiration of the Evil one, has denied, and is
now leagued himself with the worst enemies of
his father to destroy the work for which he had
to suffer so much and at last lay down his life.
	His son declared that, although he had been
accused of being an apostate, he had always
been true to the faith taught by his father; and
"I have eagerly sought for a proof of the de-
vine inspiration of polygamy, but can not find
it, and believe the doctrine to be infamous,
root and branch."
	Here he contradicts himself, which is only
another proof of his infidelity and lack of in-
spiration, and wisdom from on high. He was
hardly old enough when his father was killed
to know or understand what his faith consisted
of; but if he entered public life with this
avowed determination, which he declares he
did, how could he expect to obtain any proofs
either one way or the other? For the Lord re-
quires of his children honesty and sincerity of
heart and purpose, in which selfishness must
have no place, and

"This prayer pray: Lord God! thy will be done;
Thy holy will, how'er it cross my own,
Hard labor this for flesh and blood."

subduing our wills and the pride of our
hearts is the deepest and hardest lesson that
mortals have to learn.
If Joseph Smith was in possession of the
true faith and Gospel of Christ, such as his
father enjoyed, he would now be treading in
his footsteps; being hated of all men, and suf-
fering persecution for righteousness sake, in-
stead of being where he is and lowering him-
self by joining in the hue and cry of the low;
contemptible and foul-mouthed hypocrites who
can scacely say that which is mean enough
against his martyred father. and his most true
and humble followers.

To be continued.


2	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SOUVENIRS OF LILAC-TIME.

	Fanciful as it may seem to practical people,
who affect to ignore sentiment in its relation to
the wonderful, nevertheless I have the courage
to declare myself a devoted admirer, not only
of the beautiful aud fantastic, but of the weird
in nature. It is a part of my composition, and
perhaps I am not altogether answerable if it
is not strictly "proper." Lilacs are one of my
especial weaknesses, for they are associated
with the earliest recollections of my child-life
and school-girl history. I never see a lilac
but it calls up tender memories connected with

[Column 2]
the past, that thrill me through and through
like electricity. The sweet-scented lilacs with
their handsome foliage, geat, "dark, green,
heart-shaped leaves. Artistic shrubbery that
forms many a shady pathway round the homes
of the people; within whose shadow many a
love- tale has been told and troth plighted; the
very name is musically poetical. Love letters
have been hidden away from curious eyes mid
the luxuriant branches, to wait the coming of
the ardent sweet-heart to read his true-love's
words by starlight. And, if I may tell, it the li-
lacbush oft holds many a precious secret silently.
How pleasant to recall the sweet remem-
brances that linger round the lilacs that bloomed
in the dear old garden and door-yard of our
early, happy home. A thousand other beauties
come with lilac-time and all these have their
place in the affections and mingle freely with
external objects. All have their associations
and call up particular incidents, persons, or
friendships each one having its own peculiar
music which finds its echo reverberating thro'
the brain and the sight of one of these
strikes the chord or touches the note which
wakens responding symphony in the soul and
a long train of half remembered indistinct
thoughts struggle for recognition in words.
	Spring time and beauty of wood, of field, of
grove and glen, songs of birds, hum of bees,
dance of butter-flies, and e'en the melancholy
croaking of the melancholy frogs, the jocund
and sparkling brooks, the cerulean sky; these
are synonyms of lilac-time. The wood violets
we call wild, little, pale delicate emblems of
innocence, abound at this season. How
often have I gathered them in my woodland
rambles, and how grateful was their exquisite
fragence! How tenderly they appealed to
the finer elements of my nature as I wreathed
them with the soft, fresh, green vines, and my
own love of the fantastic and weird grew more
and more apparent as I listened with keenest
zest to the sounds of forest music. Only "those
who know," can appreciate the feeling that
comes to the soul awake to all the fancies, as
well as realities of a deep wooded dell. The
pearly drops of morning dew on leaf and
flower and blade of grass, the charming atmos-
phere at sunrise, the rich delightful sunsets,
the evening twilight, the starlit nights, the
mellow, healing moonlight—all these are associ-
ated with lilac-time. The early lilies, bright
and beautiful, always reminding us of the
Savior's words "they toil not, neither do they
spin"—beautiful words which lead us to "Con-
sider." In the lilacs the blue-birds, sing and
sway [-]n the light boughs and swallows dart
hither and thither, and O how delightfully
the music mingles with the happy thoughts of
youth and maiden.
	Then too the apple-orchards bloom, and
daintily the pink and white perfumed leaves
bestrew the ground. The birds are building
their nests and singing pretty songs to woo
their mates meantime, and thus it is that lilac-
time and the pale apple-bloom, symbolize the
love-making. To linger in the orchards
and drink in the sweet fragrance in the open
air, while the happy birds keep merry time to
the music of fond hearts, is to partake most
freely at nature's banquet. It is good for us
to commune thus with nature's heart, to culti-
vate in our souls an intensity of affection for
the artistic works of a divine being, and be-
come endeared to Him more and more through
our high appreciation, not only of his love for
us, but all that he has caused to be for our joy
and delectation. Communion with the mys-
terious in what is termed the vegetable king-
dom, exalts one's nature by very contact, and,
indeed, when one speaks of heaven, or paradise
it is always as the place of immortal flowers,
and is associated in the mind as artistically
perfect in all its characteristics.
								AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 3


"LOVE LIGHTEN LABOR."

"A good wife rose from her bed one morn,
	And thought with a nervous dread
Of the piles of clothes to be washed, and more
	Than a dozen mouths to be fed.
There were the meals to get for the men in the field,
	And the children to fix away
To school, and the milk to be skimmed and churned:
	And all to be done that day.

"It had rained in the night, and all the wood
	Was wet as wet could be;
There were puddings and pies to bake, besides
	A loaf of cake for ten.
And the day was hot, and her aching head
	Throbbed wearily as she said,
'If maidens but knew what good wives know'
	They would be in no haste to wed!'

'"Jennie, what do you think I told Ben Brown?'
	Called the farmer from the well;
And a flush crept up to his bronzed brow,
	As his eye half bashfully fell.
'It was this,' he said, and coming near,
	He smiled—and stooping down,
Kissed her check—"Twas this; that you were the best
	And dearest wife in the town!'

"The farmer went to the field, and the wife
	In a smiling and absent way,
Sand snatches of tender little songs
	She'd not sung for many a day.
And the pain in her head was gone, and the clothes
	Were white as the foam of the sea:
Her bread was light, and her butter was sweet,
	And as golden as it could be.

'Just think,' the children all called in a a breath,
	'Tom Wood has run off to sea!
He wouldn't, I know, if he only had
	As happy a home as we.'
The night came down, and the good wife smiled
	To herself as she softly said,
"Tis so sweet to labor for those we love,
	It's not strange that maidens will wed!'"

										—Selected.


[Column 1]
A CHARACTER.

	You have asked me, my sister, to write your
character, and I would be pleased to respond,
but I realize it is a complex one, and your
chequered life has left its indelible impress upon
you, unavoidably, and made some points unde-
finable; still there is much transparency in
your character, and to one you esteem and ap-
preciate, you are open and child-like.
	You have given me some outlines of your
former life, of the grandeur and the great ones,
even royalty itself, among whom you at times
mingled, yet these never brought you happi-
ness, but were a burden you were compelled to
endure. Your married life was not a happy
one; though you had beautiful children, but
you sighed for a congenial spirit, and had not
found it; so you passed mechanically, as it
were, through that stage of life, surrounded by
grandeur and exciting admiration, but happi-
ness was not mingled in that gilded cup. Time
rolled on in its noiseless tread, and you became
a widow; and with that comparative poverty
and a change of circumstances, and position al-
together different to any part of your former
life; but you were free, and that was an atmos-
phere in which you had never before moved;
and you sat down quietly to feel and realize
the influence it threw around you! Still you
yearned for a higher life, in which your spirit
could be clothed and fed. You were sick of
the world and all its hollowness, it had held a
gilded cup to your lips but the draught was
merely sweetened water; at this identical time
a Mormon Elder crossed your path, you heard
him with pleasure, you drew in your breath—
cauld he speak truth? It sounded too good to be
true; had you found the panacea for the sorrow
of your past life? All he said suited your case
so exactly; you heard, you listened, you meditated

[Column 2]
and you obeyed. Now indeed came the grand
epoch of your life! Your spirit bore witness to
you that it was Truth, you had embraced.
You laid aside your pre-conceived notions of
greatness, they had not filled your soul, but
rather left you starving, still there had been a
charm around you in your former life, which
you had never really realized till you knew
that it was gone forever! but you bravely
laid the past aside, and took up the new sphere
of life, with a determination to henceforth walk
therein. The principle of "gathering" you
heard, and accepted joyfully; you made one in
"the hand-cart company," and with the rest
drew your hand-cart across the plains; to reach
the home of the Saints; your hands that knew
nothing of labor, became familiar day by day
with toil of a most strange kind; but you ac-
complished that never-to-be-forgotten trial.
The first time I beheld you was on "the square"
where the emigrants camped, the evening of
your arrival in Salt Lake City, as you stood
beside your hand-cart! Noble woman! no time
can erase the picture you then presented to my
astonished eyes; you had dressed for the occasion,
and your appearance, even after that long, wear-
ing journey, was that of an empress, your fig-
ure being tall and commanding, and the con-
trast of your surroundings made your appear-
ance more remarkable. You, too, always
declared you should never forget me, and my
approach to you in that most unique situation.
We conversed, just as Latter-day Saints ever
converse; we seemed to have known each
other for years; from that moment we were
friends that "spoke too meaningly ,and meant too
well," ever to misunderstand each other, even
when there came a jar between us, and was good
for both of us, and quickly passed away.
	Now for an attempt at the "Character;" I
felt impelled to write a few preliminaries, as an
introduction, feeling the chain would be imper-
fect without these important links; I shall at-
tempt nothing elaborate or scientific, but simply
state my impressions and convictions.
	I had a type of your character presented to
my mind the first time I saw you; subsequent
intimacy has not materially altered it. Your
form indicates power, your action denotes the
same; your voice, and above all your eye, be-
speak power; you are naturally artistical, and
ought to have made a mark in the fine arts;—
your rooms, your garden, your dress, the ar-
rangement of your books, your pictures, and
your furniture all show the artist. The form
of your head externally conveys to my mind
less of the principle of power, and I rejoice to
see it, as it tells me it will modify the mighty
engine, and hold it in check, when necessary;
the head is that of a woman; and you may be
satisfied with it. The language of your eyes,
is at times remarkable, put them in prison
sometimes, "there let them learn obedience,"
learn to be silent when necessary, and not tell
out even in silent eloquence all that is in the se-
cret chambers of your mind; especially when
under excitement, and more especially before
those who do not know you. Women from
many causes; should learn to be their own
keepers, your mouth denotes purity, firmness
and much suffering; the nose inclines to the
masculine, the forehead somewhat low but the
to ut ensemble of the head is intellectual, and
ought to be, for the whole character is such;
your frame denotes gentle blood and a fine
nervous temperament; your hands, and the way
in which you use them, have a language in
them, and denote character. There seems to
me, to be the mixture of two natures in you,
consequently you have a double duty to per-
form in managing, ruling, and governing your-
self. I verily believe there is a large amount
of good material in you; I feel "that your
virtues are all your own, your faults those of
your education and country."
	And now ma chere, you have desired me to

[Column 3]
write freely to you, and I will do so, as I am
led; you have entered upon an entirely new
life, study to apply the words of the wise man.
"Know thyself," cultivate and nourish the
good and noble qualities, rebuke and reject the
evil. Look beyond your now circumscribed
circle, recall your noble progenitors, your
Father! see him waiting watching in the spirit
world, the movements of his Josephine, his
highly favored child! he exults over you, for
he knows, if you remain faithful, you will
stand as queen of your tribe and nation; and
this can only be gained by faithfulness—by
toil and trial, and endurance. You are cap-
able to attain all this—the material is in you,
brook not a defeat! Walk softly, walk cauti-
ously, tread every petty passion beneath your
feet let nothing have power to hold you back;
take life as you find it,and try to make the best
of it. Our probation here is often one of trials;
but the less we dwell upon them the lighter
they will appear. If we recall our childhood,
our school days our early married life, we shall
remember we had all we then knew how to
bear; now we smile at them, and wonder that
we could be so tried by such trifles; we have
moved up in the scale of progression, our know-
ledge and wisdom have increased since those
early days, and we have out-grown all those
childish trials, as we out-grew our baby-clothes,
in the same way shall we hereafter look back
upon those trials of to-day that so perplex us,
and appear so insurmountable. Experience is
always giving us glimpses of the Godhead with-
in us, and which we ever possessed but we
knew it not! The mighty Oak, the giant of
the forest, with all its branches, knotted trunks,
and leaves were folded up in the little acorn!
ponder on these things and go on your way re-
joicing.

"Droop not, but nobly struggle still,
	For others look to thee!
And they would cease to strive with ill,
	If thou shouldst conquered be!"

	Then let not present difficulties blind you to
future glory; we must bear the cross, before
we can wear the crown, as our Savior did be-
fore us, and when we have come up through
much tribulation, and received our robes of
righteousness, and are invited to sit down "at
the marriage supper of the Lamb," we shall
gaze upon the glory-decked countenances of all
the great and good of each dispensation, and
hear the hallelujahs, the soul-thrilling, heart-
cheering hosannas, of the countless thousands
who will there be assembled to crown Jesus
King of kings, and Lord of lords, and dwell
with him for ever.
	One who is ever they friend.
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City.


A PLEASANT AFFAIR.

	In honor of Sister Jane Ann Bown, a very
motherly woman, President of Relief Society at
Fayette Sanpete Co., a surprise party was
prepared on her birthday, April 1, 1882.
	Sister Bown had been ill, and all was ar-
ranged unknown to her: tables were set in an
adjoining room, and when all was ready
she was invited in; the room was filled with the
sisters of Fayette, and all sat down to a boun-
tiful repast. After dinner Mary K. Mellor
read an address written by Amy Mellor, for the
occasion, expressive of the love and esteem the
people of Fayette cherished for Sister Bown;
and their appreciation of her kindness and good
works. Sister Bown was so overcome by these
expressions of kind feelings that she wept for
joy. The afternoon was spent in speeches,
toasts and songs, and the evening, in dancing
at the Ward house. It was quite a joyful
occasion.


4	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	JUNE 1, 1882.


THE CONSTITUTION.
The Constitution framed by the recent Terri-
torial Convention, for the proposed State of Utah,
has been issued in pamphlet form, and is now in
the hands of the people.  The election for the 
vote "yes or no,” on the Constitution, was held
in the several precincts in the various parts of
the Territory, on Monday, May 22nd. As far as
reports have been received, a heavy vote was
cast in its favor, and scarcely any voted "no.”
 This Constitution now under consideration,
and upon which the people have cast their votes,
is in the opinion of thoso well acquainted with
the Constitutions of other States, and such
like matters, as good if not better, than
that of any other State in in the Union.
Certainly it is more just, as far as ex-
tending rights to women. At no other time in
the history of the United States, have women
been admitted as delegates in a convention to
frame a State constitution. There were three
lady delegates elected in Salt Lake County, to
the Territorial Convention, and they were as-
signed to places on committee work; and these
performed their respective parts in the labor
expected of delegates, faithfully and creditably.
    This is a new departure and one in which
Utah has taken the lead—and it ought not to
remain unnoticed by those who are working for
woman’s advancement, and the recognition of
her political rights.  The papers that advocate
woman suffrage might notice this fact in favor
of Utah, with the greatest propriety. It seems
strange that they have not already done so, as
the leaders of both the National and American
Suffrage Associations, make every matter of this
kind count in summing up the work of equal
rights regardless of sex. The Constitution of
the State of Utah not only allows woman equal
privileges with man, as regards rights of pro-
perty, right to vote, but also makes woman
eligible to all offices of emolument or trust, ex-
cept the executive and judiciary and sitting upon
juries. This leaves open to woman the Legisla-
ture all educational offices and such other offi-
ces as do not rank in those named above.
 The next step to be taken by the Convention
when they meet on the 6th of June, will be to
hear the report of the Election Committee, adopt
a memorial to Congress and elect delegates to go
to Washington and present the Constitution to
the Chief Executive of the nation, the Senate
and House of Representatives, for the action of
Congress. The people of this Territory are
justly entitled to a hearing upon this subject.
 The numerial strength of the Territory ought
to secure its admission as a State. Added to
this it might be said the people who came here
and endured the hardships and privations inci-
dent to pioneer life, who made the roads and
bridges and opened up great commercial interests
here, are deserving of recognition to all the
rights and privileges that pertain to statehood
in a free Republic. The people have now per-


formed their part, in calling a convention, and
have prepared a Constitution, which has been
ratified according to order, and the whole matter
will soon be in the hands of men who are em-
powered to act in the interest of the whole peo-
ple of these United States.


[Column 1]
﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON Tuesday May 9th, the Y. L. M. I. A., of
the 13th Ward held its regular meeting in the
Assembly Hall, pursuant to adjournment. Miss
Kate Wells presiding. The programme was a
good one and well rendered. There were several
lady visitors, and brief addresses were made by
Mesdames M. A. Freeze, E Howard and E. B.
Ferguson, M. D.

	ON Wednesday May 10th the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the First Ward celebrated their anniversary. A
beautiful feast was prepared at the residence of
the President, Mrs. Sarah Graham. Sister E. R.
S. Smith and many of her co-laborers were pres-
ent by invitation. At 2 p. m. a good congrega-
tion convened at the Ward Meeting House. Mrs.
S. Graham presiding. Brief speeches were made
by Mrs. Graham, Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith, M.
I. Horne, Phebe Wooduff, B. W. Smith, M. P.
Young, M. A. Freeze, Clara Y. Conrad, E. B.
Wells, E. Howard, Dr. E. B. Ferguson, and by
Coun. Steele. Afterwards some business was
transacted. Sister Graham's Counselors and
Secretary resigned their respective offices. The
resignations were accepted, and a vote of thanks
tendered them for their efficient labors in the
organization. The vacancies were filled by
electing Josephine Carter and Annie Brown,
Counselors; and Charlotte Argus, Secretary.

	ON Thursday May 11th the Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society was held in the meeting house
at Pleasant Grove, Mrs. Elvira S. Hirst presiding.
Bishop Schonfeld was present, and from Salt
Lake City, Mrs. M. I. Horne and her Coun-
selor Mrs. Helen M. Whitney, also the Editor of
the EXPONENT. The meeting was well at-
tended, the sisters speaking upon the duties
of the present time, and the necessity of being
humble and prayerful in order to keep the Spirit
of the Lord. Much good instruction was given.
Mrs. Rachel Whipple, Prest. 19th Ward R. S. of
this city, and Mrs. Mary A.Hazon, Prest. of Brigh-
ton were present and made some good remarks
Bishop Schonfeld and Elder Le Cheminant oc-
cupied a few minutes, and encouraged the sisters
in their labors. After the meeting all sat down
to a most delicious dinner, which had been pre-
pared by the sisters of the Relief Society. The
time was happily spent in conversation, and all
felt well pleased with the success of the meeting
and visit. The families live on farms so far
from each other, that a reunion of this kind is
exceedingly pleasant and enjoyable.

	A MOVEMENT is being made to give the "old
folks" an excursion, from the various points, not
far distant, to this city to spend a day at Liberty
Park. It is a noble undertaking and is being
taken hold of in earnest, and with such efficient
workers that there is no doubt of its success.
The people will no doubt respond cheerfully and
liberally to aid in giving pleasure and recreation
to the "Old Folks."

	WE recieved, by courtesy of James A. Little,
Esq., a Hymn Book entitled "Hymns of Praise
for the Young." It is by Joel H. Johnson, an
old time "Mormon." The hymns are all of
them rich in religious sentiment and of a de-
votional character. Many of them refer speci-
ally to the latter-day dispensation, the gather-
ing and events that have transpired since this
Church was organized. The author has dis-
played considerable native talent in his writings

[Column 2]
and it is a work that will be good for not only
the young people, but all Saints. Bro. Johnson
is an Eastern man, born and raised in Mass.
The book was published at the Deseret News
Office, and is for sale there. Price $1.00.

	A FEW days ago we received by mail, "The
Mormon Problem." It is "A Letter to the Mas-
sachusetts Members of Congress on Plural Mar-
riage: Its Morality and Lawfulness;" by a
citizen of Massachussetts. The letter is a ring-
ing appeal to these honorable gentlemen, and
many legal arguments are brought to bear
strongly upon the question. Opinions of great
and wise men are given, and extracts from his-
tory, as well as testimony of individuals, are
compiled in a forcible and interesting style. It is
worth reading and studying as it is an able
defense.

	THE Ladies' Conference of this Stake of Zion
will be held in this city on the 16th and 17th, of
June. As there are some very important mat-
ters under consideration, it is earnestly hoped
there will be a large attendance.

	ON Wednesday, May 17th, the 10th Ward P.
A. held its annual meeting in the meeting
house. Mrs. Jennie McLean presiding. There
were over a hundred children present and the
programme was a good one and well rendered.
After the meeting all the company repaired to
Fuller's Hill, where the officers had arranged
for a feast for all. The day was a fine one and
all enjoyed themselves.

	THE 19th, Ward held their annual meeting
May 19th, Sister Rebecca Noel presiding. There
were one hundred and twenty-five children pres-
ent. Exercises were well rendered. A pleas-
ing feature of the meeting was the reading of
their little paper, "The Gem," edited mothly
by one of the older members, every one contri-
buting who will.
	The motto of the paper is:

"O let our crown be truth,
	Our motto virtue be,
Preparing us for life
	And for eternity."

	The editorial was appropriate, by Miss Ella
Nebeker, and the little essays which composed
its pages were all very good, and it was very well
read. A presentation was made to the Presi-
dent in behalf of the Association, by Miss Addie
Pugsley in a very graceful manner. It was a
picture of the First Presidency, handsomely
framed. Sister Caroline Raleigh made a few
remarks, and the President responded happily.
The children went for a May walk up City
Creek Canyon the following day.


A FEW OF MY VIEWS

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I have taken the EXPONENT, ever since it has
been published, and in my small way have tried
to sustain it and extend its circulation; but have
not felt capable of writing for it, having never
had the advantage of a single day's schooling in
my life, except about three months at Sunday
School, about forty-five years ago at Philadel-
phia; besides, my mission has seemed pretty
much confined to home, having a farming
family of a husband and six sons to see after.
	But now that so many of the law makers of
this great nation, urged on by the popular clamor
of ignorance and bigotry as Pilate was, have com-
bined together, and carefully prepared and en-
dowed with life and sent on the wing a destroy-
ing locust, which they seem to believe cannot
fail to fearfully harass the Saints of God, stop the
progress of his work on the  earth, and fill our
cities with wickedness and misery the same as
their cities are, I feel as though I must speak a


little of my mind. It is quite probable that this
thing they have so carefully begotten and nour-
ished into life and action, will some day attain
such proportions as to astonish its fathers and
give them good reason to tremble before its face.
They have made a national affair of persecut-
ing American citizens for  religion's sake; are we
going back to the dark days of Ancient Rome?
We will try and hope not indeed.
	What they have done brings to my mind a
little circumstance I know. A strange cat had
got under the house, the children were earnest
in their endeavors to get him out, but at last all
their plans failing, a dear little boy exclaimed in
his zeal, "Oh, if we only had a cannon we would
blow the house down, then we would get him
out."
	Now these law makers in their zeal to get the
Mormons out, forgot or ignored the fate of their
own house, and having a Cannon there they
blowed away and if they didn't blow their house
down, they seriously fractured the foundation,
so that the wise men can see that its ultimate
fall is to be feared; for now the trick is made and
any other party who happened to be in power can
make other tricks to accomplish their own pro-
jects.
	It is a shame and sorrow to the whole nation
if they only understood it, that any Senator
should stand up in the halls of Congress where
truth once prevailed, and speak such cruel false-
hoods as the Hon. Mr. Hazleton did, and bring
up for testimony against us the lies of these
three miserable judges whose business here
seemed to be to try to drive our people to do some
violent act so as to get an excuse to send an army
to destroy us, and falling in this they went back
and howled like dissapointed wolves. No wonder
the Holy Book disappeared when such things
were countenanced in the halls of Congress, where
truth and wisdom should be found. Its doctrines
are denied and opposed there, and its staunchest
advocates and believers reviled and handed over
to persecution, of course it was only a mockery
for it to be there any longer. I take it as about
such an omen as when before the siege of Jer-
usalem the great gate of the Temple opened ap-
parently of itself, and a voice said, "Let us
depart."
	I can say that this unjust and cruel law will
have the effect to rouse the Saints to live their
religion, and call on the Lord more dilligently
than they have for some time; I fear that we,
some of us at least, were getting rather negligent,
but I for one feel quite roused. Shall my breth-
ren and sisters whom I know to be as good,
morally and every other way, as any men or
women that are living on the earth, be belied
and persecuted for obeying the comandments of
the God, of the ancient Prophets and Patriarchs,
and I be at  rest in Zion, and feel indifferent be-
cause my husband has never married any other
wife besides me? No; God forbid! Sisters let us
call on the Lord by night and by day, to protect
and preserve our brethren and sisters, and  that
He may give us strength equal to our day, that
we may pass true and honorably through all
trials our Heavenly Father sees fit for us to pass
through. God will truly hear us if we strive with our might to live faithful.
	I would advise every woman in this Church,
who is desirous for the spread of the truth, to
save all the papers in which is printed President
Taylor's discourse at the closing of the last Gen-
eral Conference, let not one copy be wasted, but
send them to your relations and friends, who
live in other places or even to strangers, they
may do much good; also any papers or pamph-
lets, or small light books which have in them
accusations of our enemies and our also and
truthful defences, also those that teach the prin-
ciples of the gospel.
	Let us be as much on the alert to vindicate
ourselves as certain officious, but mistaken
ladies, ignorant of the truth, have been to malign
us; they have exerted themselves to the utmost
to have women as virtuous as themselves, as
true wives, and as fond mothers, discarded by
their husbands, deprived of their homes, re-
garded as outcasts, and their little children,
whom the Father loved as much as He does their
own, cast forth as illegitimate without a father's
care. Would these kind ladies care if the poor
things died of starvation and hunger, as many
children do who are born out in the great civili-
zed world? How can they be so cruelly virtu-
ous, so dreadfully exercised over "Mormon" wo-
men, when they well know that every daughter
born to them has to run the risk of being con
taminated on account of the condition of the
world. There is many a lost, abandoned woman
in the land, who came from as honorable, as vir-
tuous, as respectable a family as any of these.
	*	*	*	*
	The monogamous system of marriage was born
of Pagan Rome, and nursed by Christian Rome.
It has deprived thousands of Columbia's fair
daughters of home and marriage, thousands
who sleep in untimely graves are the victims of
a system that countenances in man  the right to
destroy woman, and cast off her offspring, his
own flesh and blood. In many instances this
has led to the crimes of which we read in  the
large cities in the world. These things are too
dreadful to contemplate- these are the crying
evils of the nineteenth century- not plurality of
wives. These are the evils which need a power-
ful eradicator.
	I have been told by a woman who worked
three years as a nurse at the Hospital Ward's
Island, N.Y., that a person would be surprised to
see how many poor fatherless and almost moth-
erless babes are born in a day at the lying-in
ward; and that they nearly all die. Strange
isn't it? But I suppose they can't help it, the
babes I mean; she said their little coffins were
to be seen almost any day, ranged on the beach
waiting for the tide to take them away till the
sea shall give up its dead. This was over twenty
years ago; those who live near that place can
have the opportunity of knowing whether it is
so now, but I suppose it is worse, because there
are more people than there were then.
	If we had all these things it is probable, we
should not be accused of flying in the face of civil-
ization, for all civilized communities of any size, and
many civillized individuals have skeletons more
or less like this in their closets. If you don't be
lieve it, take the testimony of Mr. Talmage; he, I
believe, is as much against us as any ne, so of
course they will be willing to believe him. One
thing more, "all honor to the just and noble
minded Senators who boldly and bravely took
their stand in favor of our sacred and glorious
Constitution, and would not sanction the begin-
ning of its destruction. "The Constitution of our
country while it is honored and obeyed, is indeed
the safeguard of American liberty, regardless
of creed or color, and these honorable gentlemen
will live long enough to be glad they took the
stand they did, when they would not allow
themselves to be beaten into wrong by popula
clamor. We thank our Heavenly Father there
are some such men left yet.
			JEMIMA E. STOOKEY
	Clover Creek, Utah, May 10th, 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 5


CALLED HOME.

DEATH OF ELDER EVEN M. GREENE.

	Elder Evan M. Greene, while journeying from
Salt Lake City to Escalante, Garfield County,


U. T., departed this life at Clover Flat, Grass
Valley, Piute County, at 1 o'clock p. m., on the
2nd day of May, 1882. A heavy cold, terminat-
ing with severe pains in the breast and bowels
was the cause of his sudden demise. For many
years he had been a great sufferer from frequent
attacks of sickness, but for the last year of his
life he enjoyed better health than perhaps dur-
ing any former year.
	Deceased was the eldest son of John P. and
Rhoda Y. Greene, and a nephew of the late Pre-
sident Brigham Young. He was born December
22nd, 1814, in Cayuga County, New York; and
became a member of the Church in 1831; was
numbered among the intimate and faithful
friends of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and has
ever been an able teacher, both in words and
deeds, of the true religion of Jesus Christ.
	From an early date in the history of the
Church, he held the position of a High Priest;
and was ordained a Patriarch in 1873, in which
calling he has ministered with power and effici-
ency,to the rejoicing and consolation of many in
Zion.
	He was the father of eighteen children, nine
sons and nine daughters, and of these, six sons
and six daughters, with many grand-children
and great-grandchildren, are living, to whom he
leaves the priceless legacy of a most exemplary
career and spotless reputation.
	Brother Evan M. Greene, was well known
among the Latter-day Saints, whose burdens
and labors, privations and trials, he has valiantly
shared, almost from the beginning, and among
whom he was universally respected and be-
loved.


﻿OBITUARY.

	DIED, in the Twelfth Ward of this City,at the
residence of her daughter, Mrs. Mary Ann
Davison, May 3rd, 1882, Roxey Abagail Mc-
Rae, beloved wife of John McRae, and daughter
of Joseph and Amanda M. Pierce. Mrs. Mc-
Rae was borne in Nauvoo, Ill., 1840. She was a
kind and affectionate daughter, a faithful wife
and mother, and a general favorite with her
friends and associates. Her parents, brothers,
sisters and friends, as well as her husband and
children, feel deeply her loss, but they mourn
not as those without hope; for she was a true
Latter-day Saint, and died in full faith of the
Gospel. Mrs. McRae was First Counselor to the
President of the Relief Society at Mountain Dell,
and faithfully discharged the duties of her posi-
tion. She was the mother of twelve children,
and leaves a husband and ten children to mourn
her loss, two having gone before. May the Holy
Spirit comfort the sorrowing relatives and friends
of our departed sister, and her example be fol-
lowed by her children, that they may meet her
again where there is no more parting forever.—
Com.

	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise, on Saturday, April, 15, 1882, at the res-
idence of her parents in the Tenth Ward, in this
city, Edna, daughter of Bishop Adam and
Charlotte Spiers, aged 6 years and 10 days.
Summoned by the angel of death away from the
loving arms of her affectionate parents, brothers
and sisters; she was beloved by all who knew
her, and a bright intelligent little girl. In the
Primary Association she was always punctual at
her meetings. Truly, of such is the kingdom of
heaven.

For her sweet face so dear to every eye,
That knew and loved her in the days gone by,
With love too strong for even death to sever:
That will live on through endless years forever.
						JENNIE MCLEAN.


6	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.

	WILLARD, BOX ELDER CO.
	The Primary Association of Willard was
organized on September 12th, 1878, by Sister
Eliza R. Snow, with one hundred and sixty
eight members. Sister Jane Owens was elected
President; Susannah E. Facer, Eleanor M.
Ward and Sarah Brewerton, Counselors. In
June, 1880, Susannah E. Facer and Sarah A.
Brewerton were released, and Sophia Hub-
bard added as First Couuselor; Marian Perry,
Sarah Parsons, Rebecca Davis, Charlotte Cole,
Emily Cole, Margaret Mason and Caroline
Stauffer as assistants; and under the constant
labors of the officers and assistants, the associ-
ation  is in a very flourishing condition and
now numbers one hundred and eighty-two
members. The Primary held a conference in
the schoolhouse of this place on the 6th day of
May, 1882, commencing at 10 o'clock A. M. and
2 o'clock P. M. respectively. The exercises
consisted of songs, recitations, select readings
and dialogues; which were executed in a way
reflecting great credit to President Jane Owens
and assistants, as also to the young folks—the
following deserve special mention: select read-
ing by Master Orvis Call and a recitation by
Master James Perry, which were rendered very
admirably, in fact it was a rich feast to the
visitors to hear the children execute their
pieces so excellently throughout.
	Elders T. W. Brewerton, Moses Dudley,
Evan A. Williams and Alexander Perry made
a few encouraging remarks to the members of
the Association, expressive of the pleasure felt
in mingling in the exercises of the day. The
Primary have paid to Emigration $10.00;
Logan Temple, $9.10; for 1881.
			Yours truly,
							VISITOR.

			PARIS, IDAHO.
	Minutes of a general meeting of the Sisters
held in Paris, Saturday and Sunday, April
22nd and 23d, 1882. Present on the stand—
President Wm. Budge, Julia P. Lindsay, E.
Collings and M. Rich, of Stake Presidency of
the Relief Society; Mrs M. I. Horne, of Salt
Lake City; Prest. A. Laker, of Stake Primary
and others.
	10 A. M.—Singing; prayer by President
Wm. Budge; singing.
	Prest. Lindsay was pleased to meet with the
sisters, and to have the pleasure of Sister
Horne's company, and trusted all would give
her their faith and prayers, and those who
should speak, that they might do so by the
spirit of God.
	Sister Horne thought it was better for all to
meet together, as it would be impossible for her
to visit them in the different settlements. We
are living in peculiar times. Satan is trying
all he can to overthrow us and therefore we
must pray continually for God's protection and
care, and live humbly and prayerfully before
him. The speaker had always made it a point
of committing herself and family to God's
care, before starting on a journey. Advised
mothers to teach their children to be truthful
and obedient to their parents; said, Are we
seeking to live the will of our Heavenly
Father? If we are not, we will be beaten with
many stripes, for we have the same chances as
our brethren. We must seek the Lord and
learn his ways. Too much time must not be
spent in toiling to clothe the body. We will
have to get rid of our traditions, and step
forth, when called upon, and do our duty; for
the Lord will help those who help themselves;
although persecution may come heavily upon
us, yet she did not think the Saints would ever
be driven again; but the Saints must  be united,
all would be called to account for the deeds
done in the body. Advised all to attend to

			[Column 2]
their meetings, and their minds would not be-
come darkened. Prayed God to bless and en-
able all to do right.
	Counselor Maria Rich said she was happy to
meet with her sisters, and bear her testimony.
We enjoy great privileges now to what we did
thirty or forty years ago. We have the Pro-
phets and Apostles of God to instruct us, yet
do we realize these blessings? Trusted all
would prove faithful to the end.
	Prest. Budge was pleased with the good in-
structions the sisters had given, and for the
peaceful spirit that had been in attendance.
It was just as necessary for the sisters to be in-
structed as the brethren; for there was not much
pleasure in associating with those who are un-
able to converse on topics of vital importance
to both parties. Those who stay away from
their meetings miss a great deal of good in-
structions, and it shows they are not as much
interested in the things of God as they should
be. Sisters as well as  brethren, should not
sustain those whom they know are their ene-
mies—those who would destroy their husbands,
fathers and sons, and sever every tie of kindred.
Wished the sisters to use an influence with
their husbands, as counselors in these matters.
We are too careless in the training of our
children; for we do not do our duty towards
them. We should get them around us in the
evening and talk to them of the things that
pertain to their good. We should do this in
their early days; remember the words of Solo-
mon: “Train up a child in the way it should go
and when it is old it will not depart from it.”
	Singing; Benediction by Elder J. U. Stucki.
2 P. M. Singing; prayer by Bro. Collings;
singing.
	President Lindsay said she would answer
a few questions which had often been asked in
regard to these two days’ meetings. The Presi-
dency of the Stake had advised us to get up
these district meetings, that we might hear from
the different sisters, for they could instruct us
in the things of God.
	Sister Nancy Pugmire said she was pleased
to meet with the sisters, was proud of those
who held positions in this Stake of Zion. Al-
ways felt like going on, and help to build up
the Kingdom of God. Wished to do all the
good she could and speak words of kindness to
all; if she saw any one in want, was always
taught to aid them, and help those who were
placed over her. Was interested in the young
ladies of Zion and was proud to associate with
the young ladies of this stake. Prayed the
Lord to bless all the sisters and help them to do
their duty at all times.
	Sister Alice Rich had noted the want of
confidence in our daily life. We should strive
at all times to live our religion and to be hum-
ble and prayerful. Happy is the home where
confidence is not broken. We should live up-
rightly and honestly and do our duty. The
Lord has promised to fight our battles if we
will keep his commandments, and if there are
more bills passed in Congress they can do us no
harm.
	Sister Horne regretted not being able to
meet with the young ladies sepearately. Our
daughters have sat under the voice of the Pro-
phets of God, and have been instructed in
things of great importance. Do not fear our
enemies; but fear God and keep the laws He
has given unto us. The things of this world
are nothing compared with the riches of
eternity. Mothers teach your children good
manners and politeness to all with whom they
may associate. If you teach them such good
things when they are young, you make an im-
pression upon them which is not easily erased.
Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy.
The Lord will not hold us guiltless if we allow
our children to break the Sabbath day. Let.
us set the example and then our children will
walk in our footsteps. Deal firmly with them,

			[Column 3]
but not hardly; avoid all whipping and fault
finding, and then they will honor us. This is
a mission that devolves upon the mothers, and
it is no light matter to be a mother. Our
minds are somewhat similar to our bodies, they
need food—spiritual food, that will enable us
to overcome all the little trials of our every
day life. Related an instance, illustrative of
the fact that after we commit a bad deed,
although we may sorely regret the occurence of
the same, yet we would not be able to remove
all recollections of having done such a thing.
The sisters should get a knowledge for them-
selves, and search their hearts and see if they
are serving God. If we are united the Lord
will help us, and we need not fear our enemies.
	Sister Collings: We are all the children of
God, and have the grand privilege of living in
these valleys of the mountains, for the express
purpose of preparing ourselves for an exalta-
tion in the kingdom of God. We should shun
the evil and do that which is good. The Lord
will strengthen us if we trust in him.  Never
neglect our prayers or the evil one will have
power over us. We are our own agents; we
can do right or wrong. The Lord is not pleased
with evil doers any more than we are when our
children do wrong. Let us be careful of the
example we set our children. If we labor in
righteousness in our Father’s kingdom we will
receive our reward. Let us overcome all our
weaknesses, and do all we can to help build up
the Kingdom of God.
	Prest. Lindsay was delighted with the good
instructions given, and trusted they would be
remembered by all.
	Singing, Benediction by Elder H. Margetts.
Sunday, 10 A. M. Singing; prayer by Bp. R.
Price; singing; Sacrament administered.
	Sister M. I. Horne showed the necessity of en-
joying the Holy Spirit of God while addressing
the Saints; although she had nothing new to ad-
vance to the people, yet, as Paul says, it is nec-
essary to have our minds constantly stirred up
in remembrance of the Gospel of Christ. Al-
luded to the action of Congress concerning
our people, and exhorted all not to swerve an
inch from the path of duty; although persecu-
tion might wage strongly against us.
	In administering to the sick among the
Saints, it is necessary that we not only rebuke
the powers of darkness, but command it never
to return to the house again; related an inci-
dent in connection with the principle. Spoke
upon the power of Satan in trying our integ-
rity, as in the case of Job. Satan is also
waging war with the Almighty, but if we keep
his laws Satan will be overcome, and Zion will
rise triumphant. We must be humble in order
to be saved in the presence of God; and to this
end we have to be proved in all things. The
speaker then recited instances from the Bible
where the Lord had tried his saints to see
whether they trusted in his promises. Alluded
to the necessity of good behavior among us.
It will be our good deeds that will exalt us in
the presence of God, and not our professions.
Showed how the Lord had prospered his people
in the wilderness, and how he had made it to
blossom as the rose. The speaker had been
tried, but, with the help of the Lord had over-
come many things. In plural marriage this
was noticeable; but she had believed in every
principle revealed by God, through Joseph
Smith. and consequently, when this revelation
was given, she felt it her duty to observe it.
Gave much advice to mothers in training up
their children, and in order to successfully
accomplish this, the sisters must have the spirit
of God to direct them in all their labors.
When the Lord blesses us, never forget to re-
cognize his hand. Exhorted all to faithful-
ness and to seek that wisdom which cometh
from God.
	Prest. Lindsay: It is necessary that we live
true Saints of God, be humble before him and


live our religion. If we do this, we need not
fear the puny arm of man. It is very evident.
by the prophecies that have been given, that
the end is drawing near, and therefore we will
be sorely tried, and it will take all our time to
stand valiant in the cause of Christ. Let us
then live so as to be worthy of a salvation in
the Kingdom of God.
	Singing; Benediction by Elder Walter Hoge.

PRIMARY MEETING.

	2 p. m. Singing; prayer by Elder J. U.
Stucki; singing.
	Prest. Lindsay announced that owing to the
unavoidable absence of President A. Laker
she would preside in her place. The children
then went through a series of pleasing exercises
consisting of songs, recitations, dialogues,
etc., after which Sister M. I. Horne addressed
the children, on good manners and politeness,
in a very pleasing strain, asking questions and
the children answering. She amused the
children by telling them incidents, illustrative
of politeness and good behavior etc., which
occupied their attention throughout the whole
of her address.
	Bishop Price said he considered all the chil-
dren among the Saints should attend these
primary meetings, and mothers should en-
deavor to send their children to these Associa-
tions; because at these meetings remarks can
be made which they can comprehend; while
they cannot so easily understand the discourses
that are delivered from the stand. Re-
ferred to the pleasure he experienced at
the last Conference held in Salt Lake City at
hearing the reports given by the presidents of
the various institutions of the young. Prest.
Lindsay, in a few closing remarks, felt pleased
at the prosperity of the Primary Associations
and trusted the Presidents of the same would
be sustained in their positions.
	Singing. Benediction by Prest. Wm. Budge.
				ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec'y.
				JULIA BUDGE, Asst.; Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 7


[Column 1]
LETTER TO A. GENTILE LADY.

MY DEAR MRS. SCOTT:

	I feel like chatting a little while with you
to-day. I am much pleased with, and in-
terested in your letters, because they breathe
the spirit of an honest heart. I for one truly
appreciate the character you accord to us, of
being truthful, pure-minded, etc., and am sure
I speak for my sisters when I say we do not
wish you to keep silent, or cease to investigate
or ventilate the principles of "Mormonism,"
for we consider as you do, that it is your bus-
iness. We are not ashamed of our religion,
which is the Gospel of Christ, "the power of
God unto salvation unto all who believe." We
think with you that woman should think, and
act for herself as well as her brother man; and
it must bring serious even fearful contempla-
tion of the future, to every woman, who is a
mother, when she reflects upon the crime that
exists, and not only exists, but is increasing in
the land. But we do not feel as those who are
not of our faith, because we know if our child-
ren are faithful to the laws laid down in this
Church for the guidance of the Saints, they
will be saved from the sins and corruptions of
the outside world, that they will be preserved
pure and spotless, living lives of honor and
peace. I wish you could believe as we do, for
you would certainly be happier. There is no
doubt in my mind but the "Mormons" are the
happiest beings who inhabit this globe.
	I can assure you that thousands of our wo-
men are just as full of faith as we; and should

[Column 2]
they write, would testify of their happiness and
contentment, declaring that they would not
exchange the sweet peace they enjoy, through
obedience to the laws of this Church, for all the
riches of the Rothchilds; no! not for the
queenly dominions pertaining to this earth;
for we are living for eternity as well as time.
and expect, if faithful, to reign with the just
when the earth is purified, but we are also re-
ceiving our reward as we go along, from day to
day, even that reward that follows well-doing.
My acquaintances, who are many, have full
confidence in God, and his power to deliver his
people, consequently, do not fear what men are
trying to do, to destroy us, and would go to
the "stake" unflinchingly, rather than re-
nounce one single principle of our religion.
We realize that we are inheriting the legacy
Jesus left us, and that "they who live godly in
Christ Jesus, shall suffer persecution." The
raging of the ungodly and corrupt against us,
is still another link in the mighty chain of
evidences we already possessed that we are
surely engaged in the work of God.
	It does not affect us to see the wicked pros-
per, as it does you, for we know that their reign
is short; that God will come out of his hid-
ing place and vex the wicked with a sore
vexation. There will great calamities over
take the people, the day will soon come that
safety will not be found, except among the
Latter-day Saints; that despised people, whom
this nation is now seeking to destroy and scat-
ter abroad upon the face of the land. You
speak of the love we seem to bear each other,
which we do verily feel. Do you believe in
Jesus? If so I would like to cite your attention
to one of his sayings, to prove why we possess
this great love for one another. "By this ye
may know that ye have passed from death
unto life, because ye love the brethren," which
we believe includes sisters also. We do not
see the miseries of life that you see, nor do. we
hear of them among our own people; but only
as the sound reaches us, from the out-
side world. We know that hundreds, yes
thousands, of Gentile wives could tell tales
of abuse, heart burnings and jealousies, more
cruel than was ever known by the great
majority of Mormon women, for the simple rea-
son, we have perfect confidence in the virtues
of our husbands, and the man who would abuse
a wife would be dealt with by those having
authority in the Church. My soul too, abhors
the doctrine of future rewards and punish-
ments, as preached by many of the sectarian
ministers. We do not believe in the hell they
preach, neither do we believe that there will
be children damned, nor that a murderer who
has had a priest pray over him on the gal-
lows will go to Abraham's bosom. We believe
the Scriptures which say that "no murderer hath
eternal life." We are encouraged in working
the works of righteousness by the knowledge
that we will be rewarded for the same, and
vice versa, that all will be judged by the deeds
done in the body, whether good or evil. Is not
this reasonable doctrine? You express a desire
for the faith possessed by the Mormon women!
There is a way by which you can gain that
faith.
	The Apostle James says, "if any lack wisdom
let him ask of God, who giveth to all men lib-
erally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given
him."
	If you would read our works faithfully, with
a prayerful heart, calling upon God earnestly
to know of the doctrine whether it be of good
or not. He will give you an assurance of your-
self, of the truth of "Mormonsim," so called,
and such knowledge would inspire you with
that mighty faith which we enjoy. This is the
grand secret of our faith. I will now say good
day, trusting to hear from you again soon.
			Yours truly,
							MARY F.


﻿A HAPPY REUNION.

   As a matter of History of our Relief Society
we desire to report the proceedings of a Re-
union, we had in Richfield Feb. 16th last, on
the occasion of the completion and final settle-
ment of all indebtedness of our comfortable
Relief Society Hall, and Store-House, built by
the two Societies of this City. A splendid
feast was prepared and all the poor invited as
also families of missionaries, and all who had
contributed to the erection and completion of
the building; this took in almost every family
in our city. The large meeting house was
finely decorated for the occasion, and although
the throng was immense, yet every one seemed
happy, and our worthy President, F. Spencer,
bore testimony that he had never attended a
gathering that gave him more genuine pleasure.
Songs, recitations, and short speeches were ren-
dered in a very excellent manner.
   After the feasting, and the hands of the
poor were filled with good things to carry to
their homes; those also who were unable to at-
tend through age, decrepitude, or sickness,
were not forgotten; a bountiful supply was sent
to their homes. The affair passed off very
creditably to those concerned, and Prest. E.
Ence and D. F. Farnsworth, and either of the
Counselors were much complimented for the
efficiency of their regulations. The principles
of equality and universal brotherhood being
conspicuous in all the arrangements.
   Wishing the prosperity of all, I remain your
sister.	ELIZABETH BEAN, Pres. R. S.


PLURAL MARRIAGE AND UNITY.

	Reading the printed report of the proceed
ings of a mass meeting which convened in the
Methodist Church in this city about the first
of May, I was forcibly impressed with an idea
advanced by one of the speakers, that was
entirely new to me. At least I had never looked
upon the subject in that light, although I had
thought I was, both in theory and practice,
thoroughly acquainted with the principle of
celestial marriage. The idea was this: Polyg-
amy (as the world terms our marriage relations)
forms ties more binding; causing greater unity
of our faith. I was surprised to learn they
would admit this to be a fact. I had never be-
fore taken this view of the matter and
thought at first none but the evil one ever
had; but upon reflection, changed my mind.
I know plurality of wives to be a self-sacrific-
ing principle, yet the motive is a good one; it
being to regenerate and improve society in
order to bring the sons and daughters of Adam
back to their first primeval state, which is cer-
tainly most necessary before the coming of
our Savior.
	But you will say, no woman but a Saint
could practise such self denial. How true! and
there must be more than one, there must be
two or more to accomplish the result deter-
mined by heaven, the plan revealed through
Joseph Smith the Prophet! And if they are
not true Saints indeed they will fail even then.
How many have stumbled and fallen upon
this rock. Many, very many. And why?
Because they depended too much upon their
own strength to support them and their own
wisdom to guide them. Many very intelligent
persons have erred, have gone astray and fallen
by the wayside, because they forgot to be
humble and to seek daily wisdom from the
fountain of light and intelligence. I assuredly
know a man who stands in that position needs
the wisdom of God to direct him that he may be
just to all and a wise steward. The adversary
of souls is ever on the alert to tempt both men
and women and destroy the peace and happiness
which unity promotes and strengthens.
	Woman, in order to be a wise counselor and


helpmate to her husband, should possess the
spirit of Christ, and thus be enabled to love
her neighbor as herself. Then she can and
will act upon noble principles. But she must
have a husband in whom she can have the
most perfect confidence. Otherwise there, is no
foundation for happiness. This is one of the
essential principles of “Mormonism” so called.
But the question is, will polygamy (plural
marriage) unite us more firmly together? If
so it must be a righteous principle; for the
Savior says, except ye are one, ye are not mine.
And now since we have taken his name we
are called the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. It is very important that we pos-
sess the spirit of our Savior, that we may not
fail in one point of the law He has given to
be observed. Did He not say to his apostles,
Math. chap. xxviii, ver. 19, 20th: “Go ye there-
fore and teach all nations, baptizing them in
the name of the Father and of the Son, and
of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe
all things whatsoever I have commanded you:
and, lo I am with you always even unto the end
of thd world?” Accordingly, to “come to Jesus,”
as our sectarian friends teach, is not all there is
to do, but to study his commands that wc may
develop the powers and the talents given unto
us by God our Father, and become like our
elder brother and be saviors, unto many.
Much may be said upon this subject, but I
think a hint to the wise is sufficient.
   For instance, in these days popular opinion
seems to be the standard by which right and
wrong are  measured out. This may do for
the world of mankind; but will it do for the
Saints, those who have taken the name of
Jesus and made covenants to keep the laws of
God? Shall we forget that our Father in
mercy sent his Son, who has given rules to be
observed in his Father's kingdom.  This is
called the higher law, and by keeping this
law we break none of the laws of man, be-
cause it was framed for the good of mankind
in general. Let us measure ourselves by this
law; and by so-doing we shall be wheat, while
the other is only chaff. But chaff is useful
while it adheres to the wheat, and might really
fancy itself to he wheat, because it partakes
of the same. But when loosened and thrown
off, it is only itself chaff, and liable to be
blown away by the wind. But the wheat has
weight.  It contains the germ. Even so with
mortality. Do not all possess a germ of the
Deity in their own bosom, which, if cultivated,
will bear good fruit, but if quenched by the
opinion of others it may shrink and float away
with the chaff? Let us thank an all-wise
Providence for every faculty, both mental and
physical, that we possess, and pray for the in-
telligence his holy Spirit imparts to make a
wise use of the same. Then when the rains
descend and the floods come we may find that
our feet are founded upon the rock, according
to the parable of the Savior of mankind.
	May 20th, 1882. 		M. E. KIMBALL.


8	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HUMAN SLAVERY.

	Profesor Felix Adler, in his lecture on "The
Position of Woman in the Present," offers to
our thoughts a most painful theme, one that is
calculated to impress the most careless mind.
The details are terrible in the extreme. He
says, very truly, that "woman in the present is,
as in the past, the slave of her master—man,"
and remarks that if he should say slavery ex-
ists to-day, the statement would be received
with incredulity. One at ease might smile and
shrug her shoulders and say she is comfortable
and contented, for some women who have hus-
bands, fathers and brothers to take care of
them in luxury think that all their sisters
should be satisfied with their lot, while the
truth is that many of them have not even the


common decencies of life. In Germany, ac-
cording to an eminent physician, women are
placed on a level with men. Eighty-five per cent.
of those who die from mercurial poisoning con-
tracted in the looking-glass factories of Ger-
many are women. In England, where factory
legislation has accomplished so much, an ap-
palling state of things exists. In the "Black
country," the chain and nail making parts of
England, the reports of the government in-
spectors have told a terrible tale. In a row of
chain shops women alone could be found at
work, their husbands lolling idly against the
walls. Men marry nailers, as they are called,
to live on their labor, and drink up their earn-
ings. The reason women are employed is be-
cause more work can be wrung out of them
than out of men; they are more docile and
submissive. For a week's work they have eight
shillings, and after paying their baby tenders,
the firers-up at the forge, and other expenses,
have three shillings and sixpence left. In the
agricultural districts women and children are
worked in gangs, driven by the gang-master
from field to field, far away from home, in semi-
male attire. But the collieries of Scotland
surpass the imagination. Women are com-
pelled to work in mines filled with gas and
flooded with water. They seldom live to be
over thirty or forty years of age. Little girls
of four are taken into collieries, and at six
carry loads of a hundred and a hundred and
fifty pounds on their backs. The women are
nude to the waist and wear a pair of loose
trousers. Around the waist is a belt to which
is attached a heavy chain dragged between
their knees. With this chain they pull loads
of coal through long, low, damp passages, com-
pelled to go on all fours like brutes, hauling in
this manner loads 16,000 yards a day. Prof.
Adler speaks of having seen a picture in which
a man with his bare hands is digging a grave
for his paramour. "But what," he asks, "is
this to the picture I have drawn?" I should
like to see some painter who can dip his brush
in this mess of hell and paint naked women
with belts about their waists and chains drag-
ging between their knees. That picture would
be real. It is not by their husbands alone that
they are compelled to this toil, but by the
owners of the collieries—the gentlemen of
England. He speaks of the law in Switzer-
land giving to women an hour and a half in
the middle of the day, and remarks that no
provision of this sort has yet been made in
free America. Yet in the old slavery days, a
slave woman who had a child was always
allowed an hour at noon from field labor.
Prof. Adler says it is poverty that makes the
woman question and it gives it its direct
aspect.—The Alpha.


SPRINGVILLE, Y. L. M. I. A.

	Resolutions of respect on the death of Sister
Janet Whitmore, adopted at a meeting of the
Y. L. M. I. A., March 15th, 1882.
	Whereas, our heavenly Father in his wisdom
has seen fit to call from our midst our much
loved and respected sister, and,
	Whereas, our departed friend and associate
was worthy our highest regard and affection, her
labors in our Association having been faithfully
performed, we feel that some proper recognition
of her virtues be had among us:
	Therefore, be it resolved that we, as members
of the Y. L. M. I. A., deeply mourn the loss of
so valuable and faithful a co-laborer.
	Resolved, that we hereby extend our heartfelt
sympathy and condolence to her husband and
family, and that we condole with each other in
this sad affliction.
	Resolved, that we present a copy of these res-
olutions to her relatives, and publish the same
in the EXPONENT, and the Ladies Speaker, and
and place the same on our record.—Com.


AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Order are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.
<yn main="" street,="" epee="" hardy.xros.,="" store.="" f:nose,="" throat="" and="" lungs,="" -="" jbl.="" xj-a-37.="" gi-33="" stock="" of.iloino="" hado="" traukii="" tor="" sale="" by="" john="" c,="" jcutlek,="" agent="" for="" the="" provo="" woolen="" kills,="" old="" constitution="" bulldlngt="" also="" home="" made="" blankets,="" flannels,="" shawls,="" limeys,="" jeans,="" drown="" yams,="" white="" colored="" casslmert,="" tweeds,="" -m="" l'.-="" '="" iflf="" i="" cotton="" batting,="" wool="" brooms,="" washboards,="" brushes,="" etc.,="" etc.="" palace="" op="" fashion,="" no.-="" it="" east="" temple="" st="" "ites.="" o:="" tel="" x)1te,="" doslrea="" ladles="" of="" salthakonnd="" those="" visiting="" city,="" to="" call="" at="" her="" show="" booms="" see="" new="" hilli-="" neuy.="" .="" latest="" meet="" stylish="" modes="" hats="" bon-="" nets,="" in="" straw,="" felt="" velvet.="" also.="" a="" 'nice="" selection="" flowers,="" feathers,="" plushos,="" velvet="" ribbons="" shades="" stripes.="" country="" doalers,="" please="" call.="" ladles’="" hair="" work="" all="" its="" branches,="" flood="" guaranteed="" 1="" 7’f;auerbach="" &="" bro.="" y..="" have----="" jbehdieitomu="" idistqbe.="" ill="" 124="" 126="" 7="" call'and="" ‘examine'="" 3“="" spring="" arid="" slimmer="" goods,="" -©a="" -t="r" .—rrr-1—ft.="" —="" r).vi3d.ames-="" 'tinner,-cas="" water="" steam="" fitter.="" cwagent="" rumsevs="" 'celebrated="" 'lift="" force="" pdmps.="" ‘="" pumps="" repaired="" on="" short="" notice.="" orders="" from="" promptly="" responded="" to.="" ear.="" addrm,davidjamtsy="" box="" soo,="" salt="" lake="" city.="" ;="" i.i="" c-rf<r="" .abrr:="" ..="" h.dinwgodey,="" wholesale="" ajra="" retail="" dealer"ts="" ftjrnitiirb,="" i.sfhisb'bibs,.s13e.="" h1ttresses="" fe1tbebs="" ml="" fifo="" v‘.="" ,-rrajtd-="" l‘!="" arab's;="" cae.iaxa.g-ss.="" 75,="" 77,="" ,&="" 79,="" first="" south="" ’="" slalt="" city’="" (jh="" -j.="" 11="" i<="" div="">Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns, 	Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1882			No. 2.


AFTER THE SAD NEWS.

May 12th, 1882.

No! little one.  No! love; not now, not now!
Let mamma's hand lay gently on your brow,
And nestle your soft curls against my cheek:
So rest, and do not move abour nor speak.
Sweet, Willie sleeps to-night without a song,
And so can you, my precious Lee, ere long.
The sky is dark, oppressive seems the air,
with melancholy shadows everywhere;
and sadness breathes in all the sounds of Spring;
And mamma's vaioce would break--she cannot sing!
"Why does poor grandma bend her head so low?"
Hush! darling, don't disturb her--"Sleeping?" No!
Grandma is weary, and she bows her head
In sorrow, for dear  grandpa who, a month to-day,
bade us goodbye, and started on his way,
Soon to return; and now, how strange it seems,
And dark as though our lives were troubled dreams!
Oh! can it be, that he will come no more,
To cheer and bless us, as so oit before!
Half chiding thus, my cherub's restless mood,
watching my mother, plae and grief subdued,
My own heart burdened with its weight of carcs,
Grasps Lee's next words--"I have not said my prayers!"
Happy reminder! When in Jesus' name
The Holy Comforter's blest aid we claim, 
The memory of his death and sufferings,
Takes from our sorrows all their keenest stings;
We feel, with his great victory in view,
That we and ours shall live and triumph too.
							LULA.


A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
Continued.
It is not anticipated that in this brief narra-
tive one can describe all the trying scenes and 
hardships through which Mrs. Horne passed
during the persecutions and drivings of the
Saints; but merely to state a few facts that the
world may be informed in regard to the afflic-
tions and patient endurance of those who were
the sufferers from mobs and drivings in the
early days of the church. To tell it all would
be a task for more than mortal, only the angels
who watched over and guarded the people
then, could do that.
In the month of August of 1938, before Mrs.
Horne had fairly recovered from her recent
illness, and while her babe was less than a
month old, she removed with her family to Far
West, where the largest body of the Saints were
located; and from the exposure took chills and
fever, which prostrated her for some time. At
one time on the route, they stopped at night on
a prairie where they could neither obtain wood
or water, and were tormented with mosquitoes
beyond endurance; Mrs. Horne was compelled
to keep a handkerchief waving all night over
herself and children, and the horses were so
restless, on account of being bitten by these
insects, that, in the middle of the night, Mr.
Horne was obliged to harness them and pro-
ceed on the journey in the dark. It was
8 o'clock in the morning before they reached
water, and then it made them so sick that they
were obliged to discontinue the journey for
the day. When they arrived at Far West
they could find no suitable place to live in
but were obliged to go into a log house with-
out doors or windows; it was built on blocks of
wood and was so high from the ground that

the sheep would lie under the building bleat-
ing all night, which was a very great annoy-
ance. In this miserable log cabin Mrs. Horne
lived during the time of the persecutions of
the Saints. Here her eldest daughter was
taken very ill, and her life  despaired of, in
fact it seemed impossible for her to get better.
The mother of the Prophet, Mrs. Lucy Smith,
came and blessed the child, and said she should
live. This was something new in that age, for
a woman to administer to the sick, but the
Lord blessed the administration and manifested
his power in behalf of the child, and she
speedily recovered. It was about this time
that the excitement in Missouri raged, and the
persecution was at its height. Mrs. Horne
was left much alone nights, as well as days,
with her little ones, her husband being de-
tained on guard; she knew not at what moment
the mob would break in and destroy them all.
But in all these trying scenes she never fal-
tered, or feared, but trusted in God for deliver-
ance.
 The mob threatened women and children
with all sorts of dreadful things, and in many
instances carried their inhuman threats into
execution. They wanted to get possession of
the Prophet and the leaders of the people, as
the Jews did of Jesus and the Apostles; and
they hunted Joseph down, upon one pretext
and another, until they accomplished their
wicked design. Mrs. Horne says, "I shall never
forget the  night when our Prophet and his
brethren were taken to the enemy’s camp. If
all the fiends of the lower regions had been let
loose they could not have made a more hideous
noise than was made by the mob that night.
They were clamoring and exulting over our
brethren during the whole night. The next
day, while I was standing in the door of the
house, several of the mob rode up and said,
'Bid your prophet good-bye, for you will not
see him again until you see him in hades,’
but not using so mild a word. The Saints sor-
rowed and mourned for him, and the Lord
eventually delivered him out of their hands.”
Mrs. Horne soon after removed with her hus-
band and family, and the family of her hus-
band's father, to Plattsburg, about twenty miles
from Far West, where they spent the winter;
ten in number in one room. Mrs. Horne was
sick with chills and fever and her life despaired
of—her babe too was afflicted with erysipelas,
but the Lord healed them and brought them
safe through all these trying scenes. In the
Spring of 1839 Mrs. Horne and family left
the state of Missouri as exiles, and sought an
asylum in Illinois, and arrived in Quincy, on 
the Mississippi River, in the early part of May.
Here, for a time, they found peace and rest 
from their oppressors. Mrs. Horne assisted her
husband in supporting the family, by taking
in fine sewing. She has ever been a helpmeet
in very deed, and her hands are never idle.
Many of the beautiful sayings of Solomon in
the thirty-first chapter of Proverbs, might
well be applied to her:
"She looketh well to the ways of her house-
hold and eateth not the bread of idleness."
"Her children arise up, and call her blessed:
her husband also, and he praiseth her."
"Her husband is known in the gates, when
he sitteth among the elders of the land."
	There words are truly applicable to Mrs.
Horne for she has labored diligently in her 
own household and her family have profited
by her teaching and example.

In Quincy her children had scarlet fever,
and, notwithstanding the careful nursing and
the medical attendance of Dr. Williams, a well
known physician there, the eldest little girl
died on the 26th of November, 1839. Mrs.
Horne’s own health was poor, and her cares
and anxiety were very great. On the 16th of
July 1840, another son was born to them.
They named him William Joseph. In the
Fall Mrs. Horne visited Nauvoo, meeting there
with many of her old friends and acquaintan-
ces, who, also, had passed through the
trials and persecutions in Missouri. The next
year, 1841, Mr. and Mrs. Horne went to
Nauvoo to the celebration of the 4th of July.
Returning home they encountered in the night
a most terrific storm of thunder and lightning,
the darkness was intense, except when the vivid
flashes of lightning illimined the surroundings.
They had no covers to the wagons, or protec-
tion from the storm, and were thus exposed to
the rain, which fell in torrents, and they were
drenched through and through. The exposure
was too great and Mrs. Horne and  babe were
both taken sick. Again, she says "we employed
a doctor, at the earnest solicitations of our
friends;" but the baby died on the 26th day of
July. The mother felt so grieved that she
promised the Lord she would never employ
another doctor to  please anybody, but would
exercise faith in the ordinances of the Church,
and leave the result with Him. This covenant
she has faithfully kept up to the present time.


COMMENTS.

		BY ONE WHO KNOWS.

	An article headed "The origin of Mor-
monism," read by Mrs. Dr. Horace Eaton, of
Palmyra, N. Y., who  says she has resided in
that place for the last thirty years, speaks not
from what she knows, but from what she has
heard against the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
family. she says, "They went out from us,
but they were not of us. The deceived were
elsewhere."
	Now if Mrs. Dr. Horace Eaton  was ever
familiar with the Holy Scriptures she must
have forgotten this passage, "A man is not
without honor except in his own country," and
the Lord said, "I will take one from a house
and two from a city," etc.
	Having been born in the State of New York
myself, and connected with the Church of Lat-
ter-day Saints from the beginning, and acquain-
ted with the mother of the Prophet from my
childhood up, I am able to testify, from actual
knowledge, (which statement ought to be re-
lied on), that this woman speaks falsely against
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his parents, and
hundreds are still living who are able to testify
that they were among the noblest and most
choice speciments of God's handiwork; and the
inventors of such wicked, malicious and bare-
faced falsehoods, what can be said of them?
"that they know not what they do!" We could
with quite as much truth and propriety say
that the mother of the late President Garfield,
because she was poor, was ignorant and dis-
honest, moved in the lowest walks of life; and
that "an evil spirit had inspired both mother
and son;" it would be as true in this case as the
other; to work as they had to for years, endur-
ing many hardships and privations; and that he
was taught to restrain the instincts of child-
hood, impressing this idea upon the boy that


[Column 1]
he must be diligent in study, to obtain a suit-
able education to prepare him for what he was
destined to become: President of the United
States. This would be no more absurd than
the contemptible stuff read by Mrs. Eaton of
Palmyra to blast the character of the honored
dead, supposing by this dishonest means, that
she can break up and destroy "Mormonism."
	We know from the history of many of the
greatest men and women, that those of the high-
est intellectual order whose minds soared above
the common cares and drudgeries of life, and
their ideas and aims were the most pure, noble
and exalted, with the dreamers and visionary
minded who were most richly endowed with
spiritual gifts, have, we may say, with scarcely
an exception, been looked down upon, and
made the butt of ridicule for the more worth-
less, ignorant and faithless portion to pick upon,
who invariably set them down as silly, super-
stitious fools, or lazy and good-for-nothing
drones.
	When Noah, in obedience to the command of
the Almighty, told the people that He would
send a flood to drown the world, they only
ridiculed and called him a fool; and Joseph,
who was a dreamer, was hated by his brethren,
who sold him into Egypt, where they were
afterwards humbled before him. He was des-
tined to become the greatest and a temporal
savior to his father's house.
	Columbus, who discovered America, was de-
nounced as a fool or a most demented being.
These are only a few cases, and we could men-
tion many who have made the greatest discov-
eries and were similarly treated, winning no
praises nor recompense in this life, but though
they lived and died in obscurity, and many of
them in the most wretched poverty, their works
have followed them. I am not only thankful,
but proud to be able to say that my parents
were among the few who first received the gos-
pel, as taught by Joseph Smith, the Prophet of
latter-days; and that I, with them. was gath-
ered out from among the "rank weeds" of
"Western New York," because we were not of
them; and that, with a few other choice tendrils,
we were transplanted upon the rich and fertile
soil of the "Far West;" where under a more
congenial clime, though we were moved about
from place to place because of wicked usurpers,
who scattered and killed many; and sought to
destroy us all both root and branch; but hav-
ing been watched over and continually pruned,
weeded and watered from the pure fountain,
we, with thousands more who have been gath-
ered from the east and west, from the north and
south and grafted in, have thriven and grown
together and taken root in these once barren
but now fruitful vales of the Rocky Moun-
tains, and, in spite of the anxious prayers
and opposing influences of the enemy, have
borne much fruit, and the sight of the numer-
ous little branches which are putting forth and
spreading over the land has so enraged the ad-
versary, that He is going about like a "roaring
lion seeking whom he may devour;" and though
his agents are filled with jealousy, envy and
bitter hatred towards one another, they are
willing to unite their forces to see if they can
possibly put a stop to this increase, break up
the union, tear down and destroy the "master's
vineyard;" but they must learn that "The race
is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong."
	As J. M. Coyner has so generously offered
the privilege to some of our teachers of correct-
ing him if he writes aught that they know is
untrue, I, though not professing to be a teacher,
can detect the falsehoods, and understand the
spirit with which his articles, and many others
were written and published. Some of them
are the most vile, wicked and barefaced, which
have been resurrected to blast the characters of
the leaders and prominent men of this Church;
firing the public mind with tales of insurrec-
tion, murder and crimes which were never com-

[Column 2]
mitted. The Latter-day Saints have never
ustified the wicked deeds of ungodly men. It
is contrary to the spirit of our religion and
the constant teachings of Joseph Smith, Brig-
ham Young, John Taylor and the Apostles.
"Vengeance is mine and I will repay," saith the
Lord, is ever the teaching of the Elders.
	The author of an article headed "A Beauti-
ful Picture," drawn from what he learned con-
cerning a certain polygamist family in the
southern part of Utah, while he was stopping
(as he says) "long enough to dine and change
horses," is quite in keeping with other
statements which the Christian ministers
have gathered up and published, to prej-
udice the outside world against the favored
people of God. This story of an attorny is on
a par with some other extravagancies which
malicious hack-drivers have imposed upon
the credulity of tourists who make only flying
visits to Utah.
	They do it out of pure mischief, to see how
much the stranger can be made to swallow.
Many a one has gone away with the idea that
the whole block east of the Temple was owned
by President Brigham Young, and they were
told that his wives were numbered by the
chimneys in the houses; when their informers
well knew that most of them were the private
property of other men; including Kimball and
Whitney, who own nearly half of said block
two of the houses belonging to my husband.
They will afterwards amuse themselves by re-
lating their experience, laughing and chuck-
ling over the fun they have enjoyed at the ex-
pense of others. In connection with these
falsehoods they have published (though unin-
tentionally) some excellent truths, which, in-
stead of doing us harm, will do an immense
deal of good.
	The Lord has said that all things shall
work together for the good of those who fear
him and keep his commandments; and those
who are exposing "Mormonism" are only doing
what the Elders of this Church have been
laboring for many years to accomplish: send-
ing the Gospel truths where the presence of a
"Mormon" would not be allowed, opening the
eyes of the honest of all nations, and at the
same time showing themselves up in their
true light. One of the writers says, "The
nature of the organization of the Mormon
Church tends to hold the people together;
it is one of the best organized systems in the
world." True, nor can we separate our tem-
poral and spiritual affairs, for with all our
daily cares and vocations of life is mingled the
spirit of this one great and all important object
—the advancement and eternal progress and
exaltation of poor fallen man, and we know
that this is why the enemy of all righteous-
ness is so busily engaged in stirring up the
hearts of men who allow themselves to be
blinded by prejudice and priestcraft instead of
being led by the light and truth of the pure
Gospel of the humble Nazarene, who was also
accused of every crime imaginable and who
said, "Blessed are ye when all men revile you,"
etc. "I have chosen you out of the world,
therefore the world hates you, if you were of
the world the world, would love its own."
	Among what the writer says is the most bar-
barous of our doctrines, is the belief that God
possesses a body, parts and passions and that
we claim a right to revelation and prophecies;
to the healing of the sick, by the laying on of
hands and the guidance of the holy spirit, all
of which is contained in the Gospel of Christ.
He says: "It would be hard to find more self-
conceit and self-righteousness than among the
Mormon people." It would be impossible, I
think, to find more ignorance of the holy
scriptures, from which we derive our faith and
doctrines, than he betrays in every sentence
uttered against what is called "Mormonism."
Satan, with all his cunning, so betrays his folly

[Column 3]
and short sightedness in every move that his
agents have made to expose Mormonism, that
it is really pitiful.
	The spirit could not be perfect without the
body, else why was our Savior resurrected?
The Latter-day Saints believe in both the Old
and New Testament (though they try to prove
to the contrary) and we accept of all that is
good, no matter from what source it comes
Revelation is not confined to our leaders, but
it is the privilege of every person—yes, even "a
young 'Mormon' Elder," who cannot put to-
gether three sentences in a grammatical way—
may receive revelation and have a better under-
standing of religious truths generally, than
thousands who have had sixty or even a hun-
dred years of careful study without the assist-
ance of the Holy Spirit; for study would not re-
veal the scriptures. It is the privilege of every
Saint to know the will of God concerning them-
selves, and no one who lives up to the light of
the Gospel of Christ need to grope long in dark-
ness, or be dependent on the testimony of an-
other; the Lord has said, "Cursed is he who
maketh flesh his arm." "If any of you lack
wisdom, ask of God, who giveth to all freely
and upbraideth not." These words show plain-
ly that this is the privilege of every one high
or low, bond or free.
			To be Continued.


10	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. SCOTT.

	DEAR FRIEND—We take the liberty of
calling you friend because you are willing to
accord us the privilege of speaking for our-
selves.
	A great many years ago Prest. John Taylor
edited a paper in Washington, D. C., called The
Mormon; at the head of said paper were the
words "It is Better to Represent Ourselves
than to be Misrepresented by Others." There
is a great deal in this statement, and we as a
people can appreciate it. You speak in your
last letter about the injustice of reward and
punishment; and of your heart being hard and
unbelieving. It is a sweet consolation, in the
hour of trial, to approach our Heavenly Father
knowing that He will hear and answer our
prayers; this is how we Lattter-day Saints pass
through this world of trial. In regard to re-
ward and punishment, let me ask one question.
Can our Heavenly Father ask us to pass
through more than He did his only begotten
Son? Can we possibly descend lower than He
did, born in a manger; suffered the pangs of
hunger and want; was scoffed at and even spit
upon; and at last crucified between two thieves?
Can any of us pass through more than this?
And if we would share his glory, is it not just
that we should taste of the bitter cup that He
drank to the dregs? Again, if we would be as
gold seven times purified. we must bear with
patience that which our Heavenly Father sees
is for our good.
	While I am writing I may tell you that I
am a plural wife and have been for some
twenty-six years; would I change my position
for that of an only wife? I would not. In the
period named I have attended a very high
school; I have made intimate acquaintance with
my God. He has taught me many valuable
lessons, some of them may have been bitter,
but they are priceless. As a people we enjoy
solid peace and satisfaction, which the world
can never give nor take away. We fear no
outside element, but trust in the living God
who we know is at the helm.
	We have another consolation, we know that
our husbands are true to their marriage vows;
we know that they and our children are pure,
and that virtue is dearer to them than life.
And this we prize more than all the glittering
gold of the world.
	Hoping to hear from you again,
		Most respectfully,		M. L. M.


﻿	WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS.
SUGGESTED BY LOOKING OVER THE CONTENTS OF TWO
	BOOKS OF POETRY, "AUTOBIOGRAPHY AND POEMS OF
	MRS. HANNAH CORNABY," AND "WILD FLOWERS OF
	DESERET," BY AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

				Humbly, in a pensive mood,
				I said I'll seek the good,
		My life shall not be worthless, I shall aim
		To live that all may love and bless my name.
				A monument I'll build
		Within the hearts of men.  Each little child
		Shall say, "God bless his name and deeds;"
		I'll scatter sunshine, sow the seeds
		Of love, and truth and justice everywhere,
		I'll save the helpless ones from want and care.

				And never in my life
				Will I engage in strife:
		Unless it be to help the poor and weak;
		Then, word of sharp reproof I'll plainly speak,
				My wrongs I'll quick forgive,
		In peace with all mankin, content I'll live.
		Our Savior's life so good and pure
		Will imitate each day and hour.
		God's holy word shall ever be my guide,
		Should fortune smile or woeful ill betide.

				I shall not choose a text,
				And there on build a sect.
		My rule of faith--the Golden Rule shall be,
		"Unto all do, as they should do to me."
				At our dear Savior's birth
		The song the angels sang was, "Peace on earth,
		Good will to men."  My life shall be
		Responsive to the melody--
		That when my days are done, the glad refrain,
		At mention of my name, shall sound again.

				Life is worth the living,
				Good words worth the giving,
		If we but speak them for the joy they'll give,
		And not await an answer to receive,
				The little flower seeds
		Oft for months, o'er grown with poisonous weeds,
		Lie dead.  Then springing from the ground
		They bloom, and shed sweet fragrance 'round.
		One enjoys the planting--others the bloom,
		Tis joy to both--a blessing to each one.

				Plant not for self alone,
				Enjoy it as 'tis done,
		Shall be my daily rule.  Nor shall the weeds
		Of envy, lust or malice, choke the seeds
				I plant along life's way.
		But symphathetic tears, and love's bright ray
		Shall call them forth to brightly bloom,
		And fill all life with sweet perfume.
		I may be gone from life, but they will be
		A joy, an incense to my memory.			E.S.D.


TWO BOOKS.

   Across the plains there came to me the notes
of a Western song bird, and the perfume of
sweet flowers.  Wild flowers of Deseret.  The
song bird's notes had a plaintive sound at times
stirring my soul to pensive sadness.  Some-
times there was a note of jubilee, and at all
times the glad refrain said o'er and o'er again,
"My heart doth trust my Savior's love."  Mrs.
Cornaby's songs, so full of love, trust and a
woman's quick sympathy with all that is good
and beautiful, awakened all my best resolves
to be hopeful and trustful.  Her little book
should be on the parlor table of every Chris-
tian mother.
   The book,  "Wild flowers of Deseret,"
brought to my mind a childhood school song,
recalling all the pleasant remembrances of
happy school life.  "Flowers, wildwood flow-
ers, in a sheltered dell they grew."  The last
verse of the song was,
	Flowers, wildwood flowers,
		Do they not tell of heaven?
	Oh! man may garnish his garden bowers,
	But who hath tended these wildwood flowers?
	Is it not He who rules, who rules above
	Sending these tokens of his love?
	  'Tis God's own hand hath given
	All these wildwood flowers,
	Sweet wildwood flowers.


"Wild flowers of Deseret" is a sweet name
for so pretty a cluster of poetic blossoms, and
one feels while reading the little book that
God's own hand hath tended the sheltered dell
of Mrs Crocheron's mind and heart, the verses
are so fragrant with love, faith, hope and kind-
ness.
	'Tis God's own hand hath given these tokens
of his love. One need never feel lonely with
two such good companions in the house, "Mrs.
Cornaby's Poems," and "Wild Flowers of
Deseret."
					EMILY SCOTT.


[Column 1]
A PSALM OF PRAISE.

	I stand in Zion, and rejoice in the God of
my salvation! My home, my cherished home
is among the Saints of God; therefore do I re-
joice. I sit beneath the voice of the Prophets
of God, and the light of inspiration is reflected
from them even into my heart and brain; there-
fore do I rejoice. Holy men are around us
who bear the Priesthood of the Holy One, and
magnify the same; and therefore do I rejoice.
Holy women also are around and about us,
that minister to their sisters in holy places;
that go about doing good; whose lives are a
"labor of love," nursing the sick, comforting
the afflicted, strengthening the weak, and in
all things fulfilling the law of love. Therefore
does my heart rejoice, l am made glad, and am
comforted for the trials I have under gone.
In a far distant land was the Gospel brought
to me, by a handmaid of the Lord. My father
and my mother were near me, and a host of
loving and beloved ones! My home was the
nest of love! The Gospel did not find me des-
titute, or desolate, or alone, but it found me
rich; my cup full to overflowing with good
things, with sweet and loving spirits around me.
Yes, I had all I desired!—Then I heard the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I had enough of
the Spirit of God to know it was truth. Then
also came the knowledge that I must sacrifice
on the altar of my God much that was so dear,
to me.
	I halted, I had "great possessions," and then
came a voice saying, "whoso loveth father or
mother more than me is not worthy of me; or
son or daughter more than me and my Gospel
is not worthy of me; one who is not ready to
forsake all if need be for my sake cannot be my
disciple." 'Twas the Spirit of my God that en-
abled me to pass through the fiery trials of that
grand epoch of my life—'twas often the bitter-
ness of death, and the tenderest fibres of my
soul were stretched to their utmost tension; but
I passed the severe ordeals, and now rejoice
that I stand as one among the Saints of Latter
days.
	Here are my brethren and my sisters, the
friends of my soul—and the children whom
God has given to me. He hath given me a
home in Zion, food and raiment, peace of mind,
love and unity to be round and about me, and
his Spirit He hath not taken from me. There-
fore my spirit rejoices all the day long, and
often in the silent watches of the night have
I risen to thank and bless Him for his good-
ness to me. He hath upheld me in every trial,
in severe sickness, and through faith and the
administration of his servants, and the ordin-
ances of his church I have been healed.
	When poverty and privation have been
around me, He has inspired friends to help me,
and supplies have come. I gave up my friends
in my native land, but never for a moment have
I been without one. I gave up my brother
and my sister, that I so loved; but I have found
brothers and sisters fond and faithful, in the
gathering place of the Saints; and my richly
appreciated parents that were among the most
valued of my treasures—their places even have
been in a measure supplied. I have realized

[Column 2]
the words of our Savior, that whatsoever we
sacrifice for his sake and the Gospel shall be
restored to us a hundred fold, even in this life.
Shall I not then exultingly break forth? I
stand in Zion, and rejoice in the God of my
salvation! Here I "raise my Ebenezer," for
truly "thus far hath the Lord helped me."
Therefore I will sing unto him a song of praise,
and proclaim his goodness in the courts of Zion.
He hath dealt with me as a loving father; He
hath corrected me, but not in his anger; He
hath afflicted me to purify and sanctify me.
	He has taken some that were dear to me as
my own soul, but they were his before He gave
them to me, and He will reserve them for me
till we meet again. "He hath done all things
well," and my soul is satisfied. How shall I shew
forth my gratitude, how make known the
thanksgivings of which my heart is full? I
will listen to the instructions of my teacher—
I will be obedient to the counsels of God's ser-
vants— I feel as a child in school, and will try
to learn the lessons set before me; I will try to
school myself, teaching my spirit to be passive
where action is not available. I have never
eaten the bread of idleness, now I will be "a
working bee in the hive of Deseret;" industry
becomes the Saints of Latter-days. I will labor
with my hands, even as a menial; I am content
to do it, I will also examine my mind, and if
there is good in it I will lay it out for the
benefit of others. That, that I have found
good, by my own experience, I will lay before
others, that they may also turn the same to
good account. I will do all the good I can in
the station into which God has seen fit to call me
I will try to bear affliction patiently. When I
am in happiness Thou my God knowest how
grateful I will be, for happiness is heaven to
me; and it is an emanation of the Spirit of
God. Where it exists the principle of evil
can have no power, for the soul is basking in
a fulness and is satisfied. Then let us cultivate
this atmsophere of heaven; it will enlarge our
hearts, expand our minds, increase our intel-
ligence, multiply our usefulness and teach us,
above all other things, to praise our God. Let
us help others to be happy, for by our works
shall we be judged; by the "deeds done in the
body," will the verdict be given, and in this
way only have I any right to say, or any hope
in saying, I stand in Zion, and rejoice in the
God of my salvation.
					HANNAH T. KING.

Salt Lake City, June, 1882.


THE SPHERE OF WOMAN..

Dr. Napheys, in treating of the '“Physical
Life of 'Woman,” incidentally gives his opinion
of the “Sphere of Woman:”
	The mental faculties of man and woman
are unlike, but not unequal. Any argument- 
to the contrary, drawn from the somewhat less
weight of the brain of woman, is met by the 
fact that the most able men are often under-
sized, with small heads. The subordinate
place which woman occupies in most States. 
arises partly from the fact that the part which
she plays in reproduction prevents her from 
devoting her whole time and energies to the
acquisition of power, and partly from the fact..,.,
that those faculties in which she is superior to.
man have been obscured and oppressed by the
animal vigor and selfishness ot the male, As
civilization advances, the natural rights of
woman will be more and more conceded, until
the sexes become absolutely equal before the
law; and finally, her superiority in many re-
spects will be granted, and she will reap the
benefits of all the advantages it brings, without
desiring to encroach on those avocations for
which masculine energy and strength arc im
peratively needed.—Ex.


12	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office. Lower West Room of the Council,
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	JUNE 15, 1882.


[Column 1]
		DESERET HOSPITAL.
	Every man and woman who sees this title
will certainly feel a thrill of gladness that steps
have been taken to inaugurate such an institution
for the sick and afflicted. Long has this need
been felt, and efforts have several times been
made to obtain the desired result, yet in the past
they have proved ineffectual, but at this time 
all things seem propitious. It has been taken
hold of with a determination that should merit
success. The Relief Society organized in each 
ward often finds itself laboring under great
difficulties for lack of the facilities necessary in
case of accident and those emergencies of various
kinds incidental to human life that require
special attention.
	It is sincerely to be hoped that the people
evreywhere will appreciate the needs for a
hospital, and the benefits which will accrue to 
the sick and distressed, and will lend their
influence and donate liberally of the means
which is in their possession,for the establishment
and permanency of the hospital, that they may
receive the blessing of the Lord upon the sub-
stance over which they are made stewards.
This Hospital is under the direction of able
women, women of integrity and of faith, women
who have proved themselves capable of manag-
ing business affairs economically. Their names
are a guarantee that all will be done practically
with a view of the Hospital becoming self-sus-
taining to its utmost extent.
	Circulars have been published and are now
ready to distribute, throughout the country in
all the Stakes of Zion, setting forth the rules
and regulations, giving the names of officers and
including an appeal addressed to the Presidents of
Stakes, Bishops, Presidents and members of the
Relief Society, Superintendents and Presidents
of Y. L. and Y.  M. I. A.
	One of these circulars it is expected will as
soon as possible be put into the hands of the
persons named and it is earnestly desired they
will use their influence to aid in this benevolant
undertaking. And to all those who desire to
follow in the footsteps of the blessed Savior of
the world, this work will be assuredly, most ac-
ceptable. His time upon the earth was mostly
devoted to  healing the sick, the lame, the dumb,
the blind and those afflicted with all manner of
diseases. those who take upon themselves his
name should emulate his example; and it is well
known that He went about doing good.
	Officers of Deseret Hospital Association, Salt
Lake Cite--Pres. E. R. Snow Smith,: Vice-Pres.
Zina D. H. Young. Executive Board,M. Isabella
Horne, Marinda N. Hyde, Phebe Woodruff,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Jane S. Richards, Ellen
B. Ferguson M. D. Sec. Emmeline B. Wells,
Treas. Matilda M. Barratt, Chairman Visiting
Committee, Elizabeth Howard. Finance Com-
mittee--Mesdames Sarah M. Kimball, Priscilla
M. Staines, Priscilla Jennings, Annie G. Sharp,
Sarah Jane Cannon, Hannah T. King, Elizabeth

[Column 2]
Groosback, Ellen Dinwoodey, Elizabeth H.
Goddard, Sophia W. Taylor.  Resident Physi-
cian and Surgeon, Dr. E. B. Ferguson. Visiting
Board Dr. Seymour B. Young, Dr. W. F. Ander-
son.  Visiting Surgeon Eye and Ear, Dr.
Romaina B. Pratt. Clinical Registrar and Dis-
pensary Clerk, Mary E. VanSchoonhoven.
Mafron, Mary Ann McLean. The Stake
Presidents of the Relief Society are members of
the Honorary Committee, each one to represent
the interests of the Hospital in her respective
locality.
	Any lady member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, in good standing,
may become a member of this Association by
the payment of one dollar annually; such name
and amount to be sent to any member of the
Committee,to be voted upon at the next month-
ly meeting. The board of managers expect
to establish in connection with the Hospital,
school for the purpose of educating midwives
and training nurses for the sick, in order that
the people in all the Stakes of Zion may be
better supplied with efficient help in the hour of
extreme need.


﻿CONVENTION.
				-----
	The Constitutional Convention met pursuant
to adjournment on Tuesday June 6 at 2 o'clock
P. M., in the City Hall, Hon. Joseph F. Smith
in the chair. Among other business transacted
the report of the vote on the Constitution was
read accepted and ordered to be placed upon the
minutes. Votes cast in its favor were 27,814 and
those against it numbered only 498, A commit-
tee was appointed to nominate delegates to go to
Congress present  the Constitution and ask for
its ratification.
	The Committee were Messrs. D. H. Wells, A.
O. Smoot, L. J. Nuttal, G. W. Thatcher, F. A.
Hammond, E. G. Woolley, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
There was some discussion as to whether
the delegates should go now and lay the
matter before the present session of Congress or
wait until the next session. The report of the
Committee on Memorial was submitted by
the Chairman, Gen. D. H. Wells.  Memorial read
and laid on the table.
	The following morning at 10, the Committee
convened, when the Memorial was taken up
read again discussed and amended, and was
adopted by unanimous vote.  The President
announced that 5000 copies of the Constitution
had been printed with the names of the dele-
gates attached, and how they had been distri-
buted.  The committee on nominations reported
the following names as delegates: Wm. H.
Hooper, John T. Caine, James Sharp, W. W.
Riter, Salt Lake Co., Franklin S. Richards,
David H. Peery, Weber Co., W. D. Johnson Jr.
Washington Co. Report adopted.  Some ex-
pression was given by the members in regard to
the time when the delegates should go to Wash-
ington, and the prevailing sentiment seemed
to be in favor of presenting the Constitution
to the present session of Congress. Minutes were
read amended and approved, and the Convention
adjourned until October 9, 1882, at 2 p. m.,
unless sooner called by the President.


[Column 1]
﻿MEMORIAL.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Represen-
tatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:

	Gentlemen—The citizens of the United States
in the Territory of Utah, through their dele-
gates in Convention, respectfully present this
Memorial, asking for their admission into the
Federal Union as a free and sovereign State, on
the same footing as the other States, under the

[Column 2]
name and title of the State of Utah; and here-
with submit the Constitution which they have
adopted.
	When the people who opened this vast region
to civilization, and rendered possible its settle-
ment by the advanced races, first planted their
feet upon the virgin soil of these valleys, it was
part of the domain of the Republic of Mexico,
five hundred of their stalwart men were in the
field aiding in the war with that Power, and
they occupied this part of the country as loyal
citizens of the United States, and unfurling its
flag to the mountain breeze, proceeded to
organize a provisional government, preparatory
to becoming a part of the Federal Union. When
by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, this portion
of Mexico was ceded to the United States, they
sought at once, by proper means, to secure the
rights and privileges of statehood. California,
the settlement of which by citizens of the United
States, was largely due to the people of this
Territory, made application at the same time as
they for admission into the Union, and was
successful. To Utah was granted a territorial
form of government. For thirty-two years,
the citizens of this Territory have been kept out
of the Union, and under the disadvantages of a
system which in many respects, is foreign to the
principles of democratic republicanism. They
now, for the fourth time, approach your Honor-
able Body, with their respectful petition for that
republican form of government which Congress
is required by the Constitution to guarantee to
every State in the Union.
	And they submit that Utah has outgrown the
conditions, if they ever existed, which justified
the establishment of that imperfect political
system which has been so long continued. Her
population numbers at least 150,000. Her agri-
cultural, stockraising, manufacturing, mineral
and other resources and industries, are of such
magnitude that she is abundantly able to bear
the burdens and meet the expenses involved in
independent statehood. Her cities towns and
villages exhibit all the marks of thrift, prosperity
and order that indicate capacities for self-govern-
ment. Unaided by any extraneous assistance,
schools for the education of her children flourish
in every settlement within her borders. The
local laws protect life and property with more
than common safety, and extend all possible
liberty to persons of every party, creed and race,
without distinction. Railroads and telegraph
lines connect her people with each other and
with all parts of this great nation, and they are
familiar with the common interests and public
questions which blend the various States in pol-
itical unity. There is nothing to prevent Utah
from taking an active part in the Federal com-
pact but those barriers of prejudice which have
been built up chiefly through misrepresentation
aided by unfamiliarity with the facts.
	We further submit that the exercise of absolute
and unlimited power over the great body of
citizens inhabiting this Territory, which is
claimed by Congress as a right, is anti-republi-
can in theory, and most oppressive in practice.
We have no voice in the election of the national
legislators who, without understanding our con-
dition, occasionally make laws to govern us, or
of those authorities who appoint officials to con-
duct our affairs. The Governor, placed over us
without our consent, has the power to render
void all the acts of the legislature elected by the
people, by simply withholding his signature
thereto. This absolute veto power is added to
the supreme authority of Congress to abolish or
make null all or any of our local laws. The
essential principles of American republicanism,
as enumerated in the Declaration of Indepen-
dence, are thus grossly violated, and the people
of Utah are kept in a condition of vassalage alike


unworthy of a free government, irksome to those
who are compelled to endure it, and subversive
of the inallenable rights of man.
	We direct the attention of your honorable body
to the pledged word of the nation, in the treaty
before mentioned, agreeing that the people resid-
ing in this region at the time of its ratification, 
should be "incorporated into the Union of the 
United States, and be admitted at the proper
time to the enjoyment of all the rights of citizens
of the United States according to the principles
of the Constitution, and meanwhile should be
protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty
and property, and secured in the free exercise of
their religion without restriction." Abstaining
from any inquiry as to whether  the proper time
has not now arrived when her people should be
admitted to the full rights and privileges of
citizens of the United States, the same conditions
being required as of other communities seeking
the status of independent statehood?
	We present with confidence the Constitution
framed by this Convention, and ratified by the
people of this Territory at the polls, the election
being held May 22d, 1882, when 27,814 ballots
were cast in its favor, and but 498 against it-
We think it will be conceded that it provides
for the State of Utah a republican form of govern-
ment; and we urge that this being guaranteed
beyond dispute, the constitutional requirement
is complied with, and nothing stands lawfully
in the way forbidding Congress to authorize the
admission of Utah into the Union.
	In conclusion, we respectfully suggest that by
granting what we believe to be our rights under
the Constitution and the treaty made with
Mexico, benefits will accrue not only to the
new State but to the nation at large, in the set-
tlement of questions that have frequently pro-
duced great and unprofitable agitation: in the ad-
dition of one more vigorous and promising com-
monwealth to the Federal Union; and in the
security which will be the consequence to every
interest in this important section of the country 
which is calculated to add to the wealth, power
and prosperity of the glorious Republic in which
we desire to become incorporated.
	And as in duty bound your memorialists will 
ever pray. 
	Adopted in Convention at Salt Lake City Utah
Territory, on the seventh day of June A D 1882, 
by unanimous vote, and ordered to be signed by
the President and Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 13


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations
of this Stake of Zion, will be held in this city,
Friday and Saturday June 16 and 17. A repre-
sentation from each branch of these organiza-
tions is specially required, as there will be no
written reports.

	WOMEN'S CONFERENCES: Sisters E. R. S.
Smith, Zina D. H. Young, E. S. Taylor and Dr.
E. B. Ferguson, attended the Ladies Conference
of Weber held in Ogden, on the 8, 9, and 10th of
this month Sisters E. R. S. Smith, Z. D. H.
Young, E. S. Taylor and Mattie Horne, Box
Elder Stake held in Brigham City 13, 14, and
15, and Sisters Phebe Woodruff and Presendia
Kimball, Tooele Stake held at Grantsville 10th,
and 11th of June.

	THE OLD Folks Excursion has been arranged
to take place on the 28 and 29 of June. It is
anticipated that this occasion will be something
extraordinary. The Committee who have
undertaken the arrangements, have shown them-
selves equal to any enterprise of this kind by


their efficiency in times past. It will be some-
thing new for many of the old people, to come
to Salt Lake City from all the surrounding
counties.

	DR. R. B. Pratt who has been in New York
ever since last October, studying in her profession
and as a specialist in the diseases of the eye, ear,
nose and throat, returned home on the 4th, inst.
She has been hard at work during her absence, in
the Infirmary under the best Professors in these
departments, and as she is well and fovorably
known in Utah as a physican, her many friends
and patrons will doubtless be glad to hear that
she has opened an office again, in the city,
next to J. M. Benedict's office.

	MMS. Elvira S. Barney who went East three
years ago to study Medicine and Surgery, has
completed her course and returned home, pre-
pared to enter upon the practice of her profession.
Mrs. Barney is widely known as an active and
able worker among the people of Utah, having
traveled considerably from place to place, in the
interests of the organizations, and will without
doubt soon build up a reputation as a practising
physician. Dr. Barney has opened no office as
yet, but may be found by those wishing her
service[-] at the residence of James P. Freeze, 11th
Ward.
	We have received a copy of "Questions and
Answers on the Life and Mission of the Prophet
Joseph Smith," published by the Deseret Sun-
day School Union. The book has been carefully
prepared for the use of the Sunday Schools. It
will place some important facts and data before
the children in a way that will make a lasting
impression upon their minds. The price is
only 10cts. and we hope to see it widely
circulated. Every child should have one of
the books. For sale at the Juvenile Instructor
Offices.


THE WORD OF WISDOM.

	I firmly believe that but very few of the Saints
realize the great importance of this word of coun-
sel, that was revealed through the Prophet Jos-
eph, for the benefit of the Saints; and is adapted
to the capacity of the weakest of those who may
or can be called Saints. So says the revelation.
It further says, "In consequences of evils that do
and will exist, in the minds of designing men
in the last days, this commandment is given."
Now what these designs are, we are left to con-
jecture, but it is certainly something that would
bring trouble and sorrow upon the Saints, or
the Lord would not have considered it neces-
sary, to give a special revelation concerning it.
It is very probable that some deadly ingredient,
will be worked insidiously into the tea and
coffee also tobacco and whiskey, that will work
its deadly venom into the system, thereby weak-
ening its powers, that when disease, and that
overwhelming scourge that has been predicted,
should come forth upon the earth in this genera-
tion, it will be impossible to fight against it.
	Again it says, "If you will give heed to these
sayings and neglect them not, I the Lord will
cause the destroying angel to pass by you, as it
did the children of Israel, and it shall not slay
you." Now what a glorious promise is this, by
merely exercising the powers of self denial,
denying ourselves of what is merely a gratifica-
tion, of a depraved appetite, (which is not neces-
sary to be gratified, either for food or drink.)
What great and inestimable blessings are prom-
ised us. How can we be so foolish and short-
sighted as to persist in a practice that will bring
destruction and sorrow upon ourselves and o[--]
spring, when the way to escape these evils is so
plainly pointed out. Is is not suicidal in its
effects, to continue in this practice? And how


can we exercise faith in God, when our children
are laid low by sickness, if we realize that we
have been trampling under our feet, and con-
sidering as worthless those very laws, and rules,
that if we had obeyed, would have preserved
them from the power of the destroyer. If the
Lord had not decreed, and foreseen, that great
destruction was coming upon the inhabitants of
the earth, why did He give this warning, and
at the same time provide a way for his Saints to
escape these dire calamities? The Lord would
not trifle with his people, although a great many
are inclined to trifle with his words, but his
words are too sacred to be trifled with. Those
things that have been predicted, shall as surely
come to pass, as the world stands. And may
the Lord give each and every one of his Saints
a portion of his Holy Spirit that we may realize
the necessity of obeying the "Word of Wisdom,"
in its fullest sense, for I do not think that merely
the avoiding the use of tea and coffee, and other
stimulants, is all that is comprised or compre-
hended, in the "Word of Wisdom."
	We should ever pray for wisdom to direct us
in all the affairs of life. In governing our child-
ren and training them in an honest and upright
course, and instil in their minds principles of
truth and virtue, that they may have an abhor-
ence of everything which leads to evil, and love
that which is pure and good; that they may grow
up to be an honor to their parents, and to the
Church and kingdom of God. Then when sick-
ness and disease visits our households we can
come before the Lord in faith and claim the
promises He has made to us, if we obey his laws
for his word failsnot.
	And that the Lord will help us so to live, is
the earnest wish and prayer of,
						SARAH M. POMEROY.


RESOLUTIONS.

	The following resolutions of respect to our
young and much beloved Sister, Julia V. Pack,
who departed this life May 22d, 1882; in the
Seventeenth year of her age, were unanimously
adopted by the Y. L. M. I. Association of Kamas,
Summit Stake of Zion.
	Whereas God in his divine wisdom has seen
proper to call from our midst, to a higher sphere,
one of our members, who was greatly beloved
and respected by us all, for her kind and gentle
spirit, her pure and virtuous life, her faithful
labors in our Society and many good qualities of
a saint which she possessed, and for the love
which we have for her, and the respect for her
parents, brothers, sisters and friends,
	Therefore, be it resolved that we as members
of the Y. L. M. I. A., do deeply mourn the loss of
our beloved Sister and co-laborer in this Society,
and that we condole with her parents and rela-
tives in their great loss intermingled with the
joy and hope of a glorious resurrection of the
departed,
	And be it resolved, that we present a copy
of these resolutions to her parents, and that a
copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication, and that they be spread upon our
record book, that we may be reminded of and
emulate her virtues and inestimable good
qualities in our lives, that we may meet her in
heaven.

Dearest sister mild and lovely,
	May thy virtues we possess;
Farewell, sister may we meet you
	And be numbered with the blest.
		MARGARET A. LAMBERT, Prest.
		URSULA V. SMITH, Sec'y.

	We the members of the Kamas Primary As-
sociation, do most heartily endorse the above
resolutions of respect to our beloved sister and
Counselor in our Association.
				ELIZA J. ATWOOD, Prest.
				PAMILLA A. HARDER, Sec'y.


14 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

MOAN COPY, ARIZONA.

	The Relief Society of this place was organ-
ized May 11th, 1882, under the direction of
President Wilford Woodruff, with sixteen
members, of whom five only remained at the
end of a few months. Consequently we have
accomplished but little. We hope to do better
in future, as other settlers have now moved in;
we were reorganized April 6th, of the present
year, by Bishop A. L. Farnsworth and Coun-
selors; with the following officers: Harriet M.
Gardner, President; Elisabeth D. Gardner,
Caroline E. Walker, Counselors; Mary A.
Farnsworth, Secy.; Annie E. Farnsworth,
Treasurer. We have twenty-one members,
twelve of whom live near enough together to
attend meetings regularly. We intend meeting
once a month at present; working meetings as
often as necessary. We are few in number,
without either the affluent or the absolutely
needy in our midst. Our situation is isolated
in the extreme; the country, for many miles on
either side of us, is an irreclaimable desert,
with this small oasis in the midst, where the
people live by the blessings of the Lord, and
their own untiring industry. We are striving
to do all the good we can among the Lamanites
and fill our mission acceptably before the Lord.
We raise plenty of good corn here, but no
small grain as yet. The climate is rather too
warm for vegetables to do well. But the
people, in general, enjoy excellent health, for
which we are thankful. We have no regular
mail here, and the nearest post office is seventy-
five miles distant, at Lee's Ferry on the Big
Colorado. We have waited sometime for a
favorable change in our mail affairs, and are
tired of living without our invaluable Expon-
ent. We will now subscribe for two copies
for our Society. Hoping ere long to chronicle
something more creditable to ourselves as a
Relief Society, we remain your sisters in the
Gospel of peace.
				HARRIET M. GARDNER,
					MARY A. FARNSWORTH.

RICHMOND.

	Minutes of the third Anniversary of the
Primary Association of Richmond, held June
1st, 1882. President Mary Allsop presiding.
Singing, "Gather them into the Fold." Prayer
by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore. Singing, "We
are the children of the Saints." The pro-
gramme for the afternoon was as follows:
	Isabella Thompson, a recitation, entitled
"Good Morning." Select reading, entitled
"How to make Sunshine," by Reuben Traveller.
Mary Thompson sang a song, entitled "Sweet
hour of Prayer," followed by a comic recitation
by Amos Merrill. Abba Burnham recited
"Dedication to Brigham Young." Anna Stod-
dard sang, "Joseph Smith's first prayer." Jo-
seph Webb recited, "How to succeed." Lizzie
Allsop recited, "Ourselves and our enemies."
Alice Brower recited, "Children do you love
each other!" Marinda Monson sang, "Our
Baby." Recitation by Lorin Merrill, entitled
"Grandma always did." Maggie Thopson
read an original essay. on "Brigham Young."
Hattie Skidmore recited, "Helping Paper and
Mamma." Hyrum Monson sang, "The Mormon
boy." Sina Funk recited, "I love to attend
the Primary." Lewis Merrill recited, "Louie's
Secret." Jane Hyer sang, "O, Birdie, I am
tired now." Emma Nibley recited, "To Brig-
ham Young." Charles Skidmore recited, "John
O'Nory." Sina Beck sang, "O, Boatman, row
me o'er the stream." Nellie Bullen recited,
"Jesus blessing little children." Nettie Lewis
sang, "You are false, but I'll forgive you."
Ella Shapard recited, "I'll do as Mother did."
Julia Olsen sang, "Tis meeting day." Millie

[Column 2]
Traveller recited "I'll be a little Mormon."
Sister Hannah Brower sang a song, entitled
"Lines to Brigham Young;" composed by her-
self. President Mary Allsop read an original
essay, entitled "A play with the children."
	Sister Jane E. Molen, President of the
Primary Associations of Cache Valley, gave
some very good advice. Her Counselor, Sister
Adeline Barber, also gave some good in-
structions. Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore, C. Hyer
and A. C. Brower each made a few remarks.
Sister Myra Merrill, President of the Relief
Society, and her Counselors met with us. A
good spirit prevailed.
	Singing, "In our lovely Deseret." Benedic-
tion by the children in concert.
	Annual report, beginning June 1st, 1881, and
ending June 1st, 1882: Number of names en-
rolled, one hundred and forty-seven. Average
attendance, seventy-five. Number of meetings
held, thirty-six. Financial report: Amount re-
maining in treasury from previous year, $5.20.
Received during the year, from the members,
$6.48. Total, $11.68. Disbursed, $4.45.
Amount in treasury, $7.23.
		MARY A. WEBB, Secretary.
		ELIZABETH MERRILL, Asst. Secretary.

SMITHFIELD.

	The yearly meeting of the Primary Associ-
ation of Smithfield, Cache Co. was held on
April 25th, 1882. A number of the Relief
Society sisters were present. During the meet-
ing a great many encouraging and instructive
remarks were given. Sister Adeline Barber,
in behalf of the mothers, presented Pres. Mar-
tha Williams with a handsome hat and cape;
also read a memorial of respect, composed by
the mothers for the Association, as a token of
respect and love toward her for her labors, as
she had been faithful in teaching their children
the ways of truth and righteousness. Prest. M.
Williams, with a few appropriate words,
thanked all for the kindness they had shown
her.
	On April 15th Sister Molen, Bishop Farrell
and Sister Barber being present, the Associ-
ation was reorganized, with the following
officers: Martha Williams, President; Lillian-
Jones and Emma Farrell, Counselors; Emma
Nelson, Secretary; Ghena Folsom, Assistant
Sec.; Hannah Christensen, Treasurer; Ida F.
Harper, her assistant.
	Sisters Williams, Molen and Barber, also Bp.
Farrell spoke encouragingly to the children.
	The Primary Association of Smithfield is
doing well, and great improvements have been
made since its first organization. The children
have held three concerts during this year; also
paid $12.00 to the emigration fund and have
wheat and beans stored away for a famine.
The Association proves to be a blessing to this
ward. A book of Questions and Answers, by
Sister Snow Smith, proves to be a great help
to the President.
					EMMA NELSON.
							Secretary.


[Column 1]
UNION.

	What a glorious and eternal principle is
union! How much can be accomplished where
this exists, whether it is in a family, a church
or a nation! If existing in a nation, that na-
tion must, of necessity, become invincible; for
what foe could stand against a people of one
mind and with concerted action? surely that
kingdom, or that republic, would attain to
honor and glory above all other nations or
countries. When this spirit of union pervades
a family, how lovely it makes that family ap-
pear! No matter how rudely the cold winds
of adversity may blow, or what the outside in-
fluences may be, that surround them, in that
home there is peace; and in that family circle

[Column 2]
is a haven of rest. But how much of this
glorious principle of union is there upon
the earth at the present day? Do we find it
existing in the assemblies of the nations; in
the family circle, or in the churches? No; for
the seeds of desolation are in their midst;
and the nations are sick; and old dynasties
are tottering to their foundation; dissension,
disunion and strife prevail to an awful extent,
and confidence seems almost a thing of the
past, and there is a fearful looking for the
things that are coming upon the earth. Signs
in the heavens above, and in the earth below;
surely no thinking mind can doubt that we are
living in the latter days.
	But what are the Christian ministers doing?
Who profess to be followers of the meek and
lowly Jesus; of Him who had not where to lay
his head, and who said, if ye are my disciples,
love one another. Who wept over Jeruselem
because he would have gathered its inhabitants
and they would not. Are these same Chris-
tian ministers faithfully warning the people?
Are they using their influence to bring about
a better state of things? Are they seeking for
that which was lost, and striving to bind up
that which was broken? Alas! No; too many
of them use their influence to fan the flames of
dissent and strife, and even condescend to fab-
ricate falsehood in order to bring persecution
upon an innocent people, whose greatest fault
is that they are too united. Whatever may be
made the excuse for the crusade against the
Latter-day Saints, this is the real secret. It
is not in Utah that Rev. Mr. Newman should
look for children born without homes or paren-
tal care. No, rather let him seek them where
they will be found, in and around the place
honored by his most profound teachings;
where he advocates the bayonet and the knife
to be used against an innocent people, and
where he dares to pray to the God of mercy
that the glorious valleys that the people of
Utah have made beautiful, and the fields of
waving grain, which they have planted, should
be wrested from them and be given to their
oppressors. Let him search where they will be
found in the sewers and cisterns of our great
cities in the east; where civilization reigns trium-
phant. Let him petition Congress for special
legislation to abate the social evil; and its mem-
bers will find abundant use for all the time they
can spare, and the philanthropy they are capable
of exercising. Let him that is without sin
cast the first stone, and Utah will be left face
to solve her own problems, the parents to raise
their own children; and the foundling hos-
pital and the workhouse will be unnecessary
and unknown in their midst. Surely the men
who profess to be ministers of the Gospel of
peace must have mistaken their vocation, when
they sow the seeds of dissension and strife; and
instead of trying to convince those who see
differently, and whom they may imagine to be
in error, by the divine spirit of love, stir up
instead, a spirit of hate and war. Yes, they
must have mistaken their vocation and war
should have been their profession. "Ichabod
the glory is departed!" might be written on the
very walls of the places where they preside;
for after all the fuss that has been made about
the sad fate of the women and children of
Utah, they are beginning to admit that that
is not the true reason they seek to bring
trouble upon us. It is our union that must be
destroyed, and the question settled forever; just
as though it were a sin for a people to be united,
when the spirit of true religion is unity, peace
and love! And the great fathers and foun-
ders of our own country advocated it above
all other principles; they well knew the ad-
vantages to be derived from its practice, and
could foresee the evils that would be the result
of disunion. Then let us, as Latter-day Saints,
not suffer our own union to be broken up; and-
if trouble and sorrow invade our ranks, let it


have the effect of making us more united. Let
us not return evil for evil, but rather, by our
good works, prove that we seek to honor our
Father in heaven. Then the question will in-
deed be settled speedily, and in a different
way than that which our defamers anticipate.
Oh! what a vision opens to my mind, when
contemplating the blessings and glory that
awaits a united people; but my pen fails me,
and I veil my eyes in wonder, and view, as in
a mist, the rest that remains for the people of
God.
	When we are enabled, through faith, to
pierce the dark clouds that obscure the pres- 
ent, and fix our eyes on the glorious promises
given of the future destiny of the people who
are united in keeping the commandments of
God, the trials and labors of the present are
but light, notwithstanding they sometimes
seem greater than we can bear. "For at
evening time it shall be light. And they shall
all see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring
again Zion."
					PHOEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 15


[Column 1]
THE TRUE CHURCH.

	Why are all the churches in Christendom
offended with us? Is it because a young man
only fourteen years of age who, being anxious
to know which church possessed the greater
portion of the Spirit of the Lord, and the true
principles of religion, asked in faith believing
he could know for himself? believing also the
word of the Apostle James, chap. iv, ver. 5:
"He that lacketh wisdom let him ask of God!"
Accordingly received an answer, to his astonish-
ment, saying there were none on the earth or-
ganized as Jesus left it. None according to
this pattern. But the time had come when
there must be such a church and such a people.
This being the fact, I would ask who is to
blame?  Is any one to blame? We were all
doing the best we could before this message ar-
rived. And what now can be done only to in-
vestigate the truth and see if it will better com-
pare with Christ’s teachings when he was here
upon the earth. Did not the Savior come at
a certain period of time, to accomplish a work
which was ordained to be from before the
foundation of the world, to rescue us from the
fall and bring to pass the resurrection? Yet
his brethren, the Jews, rejected him, as St.
Paul says, blindness in part happened to Israel
until the fulness of the Gentiles has come in.
This time having arrived, is it strange that
this young man should be led to make so fer-
vent a prayer to God to know the right way. 
Is it not probable he was fore-ordained to do
this great work, this strange work which we
that have embraced it once looked upon as 
false? I well remember exclaiming false pro-
phet, when I first heard of the work; because
the Savior said there should be such in the
last days. But how unwise, to judge a people
unheard.
	Well what did I hear? It was this: that the
Lord, knowing our capacities, gave us the writ-
ten word, or Bible, just as he meant it, and
said his word was so plain that the wayfaring
man, though a fool, need not err therein.
This looked reasonable and fatherly. Why
should He do otherwise? The "Mormon" Elder
then took the bible in its plainness, and how in-
teresting. It indeed seemed like a well of
water springing up into everlasting life. Be-
cause he taught that Christ’s sermon on the
Mount must be observed to the very letter.
Nothing must be neglected, if we would be
prepared for the coming of the Savior. Was
there danger in this kind of teaching? No; far
more on the other side of the question, with the
idea that you have only to come to Jesus and
you are saved. Most assuredly. But how
must we come? The Savior says to observe all
things whatsoever I have commanded them

[Column 2]
And Oh! the plan of redemption with the
different changes that earth must pass through
before it can be the abode of its Creator! The
study is great and glorious, even as shown to
Daniel in vision down to the end of time. Also
to John, the Revelator, the same vision, only
by different figures, when the word came that
time shall be no longer! How I wish the
clergy of the different sects could see and un-
derstand this great and glorious work. Then
their minds would be filled with that light and
intelligence which would take all envy and
hatred and malice from their bosoms. Light and
joy and peace would take possession and fill the
place of the former; and they would find the
words of the Savior verified, when he told the
woman of Samaria saying, the water He would
give, would be a well of water springing up
unto everlasting life. With this water of life
or this light and intelligence, what great at-
tainments are made in arts and sciences, by
those who are not full of gall and bitterness;
those who give their attention to the principles
of study, and advancement for the benefit of
mankind. But should we become so proud
of our attainments that we cannot look beyond
our own sphere of action? Should we not re-
member that we are, although different, yet
members of one body or, in other words, all
children of one Father? Is it wise to be proud?
Rather let us remember the Lord resists the
proud, but gives grace to the humble. But again
I ask, why do the clergy rage against the truth?
I will answer—all do not. As soon as they
learn its simple and plain facts, many have
thrown away prejudice and especially if they
were devoted to the teaching of Christ. Many,
very many have done this. Even President
Taylor, who with another divine was praying
to understand some passage of scripture when
Elder Parley Pratt came in with the message
of salvation. Read also Spencer’s letters, you
will see true faith in God. The author was a
Baptist minister, and had a large congregation,
and a good salary. He gave up all for the truth,
when he heard it, and he never repented of it,
but rejoiced in it to the day of his death.
	Can it be a reality that the whole of Chris-
tendom are determined to stamp us out of
existence? Dare they, in the pride of their
hearts, attempt this? Have they no fear of
God before their eyes? I think it would be
well for them to learn of our faith and doc-
trine before they begin, lest our exit should
be to our advantage, and their efforts to their
sorrow. The measure they mete to others will
most assuredly be meted out to them again.
The word of the Lord has spoken it through
the Savior of the world.
						M. E. KIMBALL.


[Column 1]
THE MODERN HERO.

	Reading Carlyle's "Hero as Divinity," start-
ed the train of thought about the modern hero.
All nations, all people have a portion of di-
vinity within them. Children of the Heaven-
ly Father; how can it be otherwise? No matter
how dense the darkness that enshrouds them,
they seek for something to worship, to look up
to, to aid them to ward off evil, and to bring
them good. A higher power than theirs is
sought blindly, but devoutly. The traditions
of the ancient fathers came down through cen-
turies, mingled with obscurity; and that prob-
ably constituted the Gods of the ancient Norse-
men. The evil one was abroad, falsehood was
mingled with truth. Anything to lead the
minds of the children of men from the truth;
anything to satisfy the inherent longing for a
higher life, save the eternal truths of heaven.
The Priesthood was driven from the earth.
Idolatry and false forms of religion held sway.
Darkness swept over the earth. Popery and
and Paganism rose, advanced and partially de-

[Column 2]
clined. From Popery sprang her many
daughters, the Protestant Churches.
	There was no Divine Hero upon the earth.
None sent from the heavens to proclaim the
everlasting truth. No ambassador from on
high, for heretofore every ambassador, even to
the Son of God, had been destroyed, translated
or driven to the uttermost parts of the earth.
	The time had come for a new era. Blest,
ordained and set apart for his high mission,
Joseph was sent unto the earth. As a babe he
began his earthly life; angels watched over
their precious charge. While still a boy the
Lord and his Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to
him and unfolded the truth from heaven.
"Hear ye him" said the Father, and the Son
proclaimed the truth. Then beamed light up-
on the darkness of the world—light that was
destined to dispel it—to revolutionize the
theories of man-made religion; to bring life
again, eternal life, to the hungry children of
the Father, dwelling in shadows and fanciful
forms.
	This is a hero to be proud of! Who with-
stood persecution; who manfully maintained the
right against the wrong; who alone, in his
youth, unaided by mortal man, maintained his
integrity. The hosts of heaven watched, aye,
and guarded him too. Sorely was he tested,
but he shone forth as pure gold; he began a
new era of light and life, to mankind, the
brethren and the sisters, children of the same
Father he had lived with before he came to
this world, before he descended from the courts
of heaven.
	This hero came, Joseph was his name. His
life testified of his heroism; a struggle continu-
ally with the powers of darkness, that tried to
overwhelm him but could not. Through trial
and persecution Joseph led the chosen people
gathered from many nations. What is life to
him but sorrow and gladness. Sorrow when
wickedness triumphed, and gladness for the
power given in the last days over the evil one.
	After a life of self-denial, of good wishes, of
miracles, of hope, of troubles innumerable from
the hands of wicked men; of privations, of
imprisonment, falsly accused, this great hero,
this wonderful man, this son of the Father was
martyred; laid down his life, and sealed his
testimony with his blood, which has never
been effaced from the prison floor. It is a
strong testimony of the innocence of the mar-
tyred modern heroes, Joseph Smith and his
brother Hyrum.
					EMILY B. SPENCER.

INTELLIGENCE.

	In a revelation to Joseph Smith in the Doc-
trine and Covenants we find the following: "Seek
ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering
for what they are given; for, verily I say unto
you, they are given for the benefit of those who
love me, and keep my commandments;" then
follows several paragraphs explaining what
those gifts are. And, "He that receiveth of
God, let him account it of God, and let him
rejoice that he is accounted of God worthy to
receive;" and we are told to "live by every
word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of
God," and to "search these commandments for
they are true and faithful."
	"The glory of God is intelligence, or, in
other words, light and truth." Doc. and Cov.
page 246, First European Edition. "And if
your eye be single to my glory, your whole
bodies shall be filled with light, and there
shall be no darkness in you, and that body
which is filled with light comprehendeth all
things." page 100; again he says "cast
away your idle thoughts and your excess of
laughter far from you." A description of
Jesus Christ says he was never known to laugh.
And it is certain that the more we think idle


[Column 1]
thoughts the less light and truth there is in us,
this certainly reflects much discredit on writers
and readers of fictitious literature; who give so
much of their time and thoughts to nonsense.
	Joseph Smith says: that whatever principles
of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it
will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a
person gains more knowledge and intelligence in
this life, through his diligence and obedience,
than another, he will have so much the advan-
tage in the world to come.
	God further says, "Seek not for riches but for
wisdom, and behold the mysteries of God shall
be unfolded unto you and then shall you be
made rich. Behold he that hath eternal life is
rich." Riches here evidently mean supera-
bundance or wealth, not necessary to comfort
or happiness; for in other commandments God
signifies his will that we should have neces-
saries, and something to spare, for our tithing
was to be of our "surplus properties," and it is
not right that any man should be in bondage
one to another. Doc. and Cov. It is wisdom
from the foregoing that our exaltation behind
the vail (when preceded by a pure life here) is
in accordance with our intelligence, hence those
who die ignorant, though equal in purity, will
enjoy a far less degree of happiness there; for
as intelligence is the glory of God it follows
that the more we possess the more our glory will
assimilate to his, and we cannot any way take
with us earthly riches, hence our knowledge
and wisdom is all we can lay claim to from
this side, so it is all our wealth when we reach
that. Though we have no contempt for money,
for a portion is absolutely necessary to the
acquirement of knowledge, of which a good
share is obtained by reading the "best books;"
"seek learning even by study and also by faith,"
Doc. and Cov., and "you shall live by every
word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of
God." Doc. and Cov. page 85.
	The highest ambition of every saint is to be-
come like Jesus Christ, as we are to be joint
heirs with him.
	From the foregoing we learn that intelligence
is glory, and is essential to future happiness;
then the question arises, which is the best pos-
sible way to gain it? Intelligence is spirit, em-
bodied, mind, skill, understanding or knowledge,
which implies truth ascertained, information,
learning.
	Desire spiritual gifts, 1st Cor., xiv chap.
"Every good gift and every perfect gift is from
above, and cometh down from the Father of
lights, with whom is no variableness, neither
shadow of turning." James 1st chap., 17th
verse; and they are instituted for "the perfect-
ing of the saints" Eph. 4th chap. for "where
there are no visions the people perish" and "the
manifestation of the Spirit is given to every
man to profit withal." For to one is given by
the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another the
word of knowledge by the same Spirit. 1st Cor,
12th chap.
	The Lord told Joseph Smith that to those
that feared Him and served Him in truth and
righteousness to the end, to them He would re-
veal all mysteries, the wonders of eternity;
they should know "their wisdom shall be great
and their understanding reach to heaven	*	*
for by my spirit will I enlighten them" and
make known unto them "things which eye has
not seen, nor ear heard, nor yet entered into
the heart of man."
	Jesus Christ says: "I am the spirit of truth,"
and truth is knowledge of things as they are,
and as they were, and as they are to come. Doc.
and Cov. page 245. Jesus Christ received not
a fulness at first, but continued from grace to
grace until he received a fulness. "The spirit
of truth is of God." Prest. Brigham Young
said, "Every member has the right of receiving
revelation for himself, both male and fe-
male. It is the very life of the church of the
living God in all ages of the world."

[Column 2]
	Apostle George Q. Cannon says, "There is an
influence born with every person that to a cer-
tain extent is a spirit of revelation," so as we
all possess more or less of this faculty and by
cultivation could no doubt develop it to a con-
siderable degree, then our minds would be im-
pressed in regard to passing events and enlight-
ened on all subjects we undertook to study or
think about.
	Brother Calkin, in Mill. Star, says: "The Di-
vine Will has ordained that the self-exertion
of his creatures, rightly directed, shall be the
proper source of blessings and the means to
bring about their redemption, salvation and
eternal exaltation."
	Though study and practice are indispensable,
any one whose mind has been inspired to un-
derstand things, to write by inspiration or im-
pression, or produce anything mechanical by
the same power will readily perceive the beauty
of the thing and the ease with which it is accom-
plished, so far beyond anything we could do by
our own common unaided ability, that were we
assisted by this power and benefited by the ex-
perience of those who have gone before; through
the "ministry of angels" our means of acquir-
ing knowledge would be infinitely greater; and
through continuing from "grace to grace" we
could not fail to receive a fulness in far less
time than by our present comparatively slow
process, to say nothing of the indescribable
happiness felt by the close proximity of the
Holy Spirit, or the knowledge that our
minds were enlightened and our future bliss
enhanced by continued revelation from Him
that "doeth all things well."
						ANN FELLOWS.


16 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GOOD manners are made up of petty sacrifices.

	UNDER all speech that is good for any-
thing there is a silence that is better. Silence
is as deep as eternity; speech is shallow
as time.

	HOPE is like the sun, which as we journey
toward it casts the shadow of our burdens be-
hind us.

	MISS Edith Simcox is spoken of by some of
the English people as "the inheritor of the
mantle that dropped from George Eliot's
shoulders."

	MISS Lillie C. Darst was elected an
alternate delegate to the Republican State
Convention of Ohio. The lady is the editor
of a paper at Circleville, Ohio. The papers
speak of it as "a woman's triumph."

	MRS. Helen M. Slocum, of New York
city, peacefully passed away on Tuesday, May
16th. Mrs. Slocum was born in Vermont, and
spent her girlhood among the Green Mountains.
She married in her early youth Dr. Volney G.
Slocum. Her own family were Friends, be-
longing to one of the best old Quaker stocks
of this country. She was brought up in the
school of reform. In her girlhood she was an
ardent anti-slavery advocate; later she took up
the cause of temperance; but she devoted the
prime of her life to the advocacy of woman
suffrage.
	Mrs. Slocum was chairman of the executive
committee of the New York Suffrage Associ-
ation, and first vice-president of the city so-
ciety—Ex.
	For several years past her voice has been
heard at every meeting of the friends of suf-
frage in New York city and vicinity. Her
style of speaking was peculiarly earnest and
impressive, her pathetic appeals often bringing
tears to the eyes of her auditors. Her last
speech was made at the convention held in city
in Chickering hall on Feb. 1st and 2d.—Ex.


AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Department for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
	S. P. TEASDEL.

Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoos,
ob[--]n the West.	Your Orders are Solicited.
	GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels, 	White Yarns, 		Wool Batting,
	Shawls, 		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys, 		Cassimers, 		Washboards,
	Jeans, 		Tweeds, 			Brushes, Etc, Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1882.	NO. 3.


﻿AN IDEAL.

Here is my home ! Far down below me lying,
	The city spreads its stream of busy life
Unto my watching, dreaming eyes replying,
	Banishes loneliness and hushes strife;
Sense of companionship without its sighing,
	Hearts' rest from scenes with vexing questions rife.

Just within sense of life's sincere endeavor,
	Just within sight of arts' creations rare,
So comes the life draught welling up forever,
	As breezes wandering through the sunbright air,
Gather the freshness from the flowing river
	And scatter perfumes culled from every where.

Mountains that yet are white with winters snowing,
	Shut out the far world from my blest retreat,
Out through their riven side a stream is flowing
	Chanting a psalm the rocky walls repeat,
Till in the valley with warm sunlight glowing
	Breaketh its voice to ripples low and sweet.

Sheltered from winds, adown a dimpled hollow,
	Earliest suns have waked the leaves of spring,
Here comes the robin and the glancing swallow,
	Here comes the lark to build her nest and sing,
And here as soon as bud and perfume follow.
	Loiters the butterfly on idle wing.

Here is my home, low-roofed against the sweeping
	Of winter winds that spend their strength in vain,
Here may I listen, wakened from my sleeping,
	Close overhead the music of the rain;
And with the morning light a welcome keeping,
	Flowers are crowding 'gainst my window pane.

Here are my trees, each has its sep'rate meaning,
	These were for shelter, these for beauty brought
From far and near my search was long in gleaning,
	Those most befitting the eyrie I had sought,
Drawing from out my fancy's farthest screening,
	The real living picture hero is wrought.

Here come the few—one is not long in finding
	Those who will deem it worth their while and care,
To thread the pathway up the mountain winding,
	Catching the rapture of the upper air,
Worship and joy, with sacred friendship binding
	In a sweet charm the soul may inly wear;

Here come the loved, the dear ones who've departed,
	Softly their arms my drooping form entwine,
Here come the sacred, great and noble hearted,
	Softly their spirits cheer and beckon thine;
Have I been dreaming? Hide the tears that started
	Ah! would that this ideal home were mine.

						AUGUST JOYCE CROCHERON.
	June 10, 1882;


[Column 1]
WOMAN IN POLITICS.

Says Dryden;

"Speech is the light the morning of the mind.
It spreads the beauteous images abroad,
Which else lie furled and shrouded in the soul."

	"Speak that I may see thee," said the old
philosopher. The heart utters its secrets when
the tongue or pen is in motion. As the full bucket
betrays the condition of the water in the well,
so speech as a rule declares the person, the
inwardness, the intent. I have a few fugitive
ideas, whims peradventure, that are clamoring
for expression. But how to put them in proper
shape bothers me. Your paper is proverbial for
lively and entertaining articles, and I do not de-
sire to mar its good repute. Bear with me while I
give a few items, for like one of old "I will also
show mine opinion." I will speak of woman
as a factor in governmental affairs.
	Sovereignty under proper regulations, an
just limits belongs to the American peopl
whether as States, Territories, and all subdiv

[Column 2]
ions thereof, or as individuals. This is no new
theory, nothing out of the usual methods. It
proposes no new ideas in political economy; for
in reality there is no undiscovered truth in that
economy. Simplicity is the invariable charac-
teristic of truth. Error loves to hide her de-
formity in complicated envelopments. But
truth is open as the day, its language is direct
and plain, its precepts are irresistible in force.
The elementary principles of whatever is most
valuable to mankind are distinguished by sim-
plicity. This is true of all the arts that
embellish life, and discoveries that enlarge the
field of human happiness. This is essentially
true of government.
	In a Republic the natural equality of man,
the right of the majority to govern, their duty
so to govern as to preserve inviolate the sacred
obligations of equal justice, are its elementary
propositions. It has been wisely said that "The
world is governed too much," too many statutes,
too many subjects legislated upon. First of
man's political interests and most essential is
good governments; few laws well administered
will answer all needful purposes. They must
be impartial however, both in enactment and
execution. The penal interdictions of the law
must not be thrown across my path to hinder
me from a course that another may pursue with
safety. Happily these great principles are
enunciated, in the immortal Declaration of
Independence, and in the Constitution of the
United States by Washington, Adams, Jeffer-
son, Madison, Jackson, and a host of others,
fathers and defenders of the Republic. Suf-
fer me to insert a few good words from Presi-
dent Jackson. "It is in a plain system void of
pomp, protecting all, and granting favors to
none, dispensing its blessings like the dews of
heaven, unseen and unfelt, save in the beauty
and freshness they contribute to produce, that
the people will find happiness and their liberties
protection."
	The whole theory of our government is based
upon impartiality and universal equity, hence
all partial legislation tends in its results to be
subversive of just government, and prejudicial
to the vital principles of civil and religious
freedom. The rulers of a former age were re-
primanded by the great Law-giver as follows:
"Therefore have I also made you contemptible
and base before all the people according as ye
have not kept my ways, but have been partial
in the law." God's ways are ever just. Crime is
the violation of proper penal laws. Law is a
moral obligation binding on the subject,
obligations arise from benefits received. In
other words law is a necessary relation between
cause and effect, just laws protect me in my
rights, I owe them obedience and honor, ac-
cording to an old saying, "There is no right
without its duties, and no duty without its
rights." True government will tend with a
constant influence to equalize the external con-
dition of mankind, perfect equality indeed is
not within the reach of human effort.

Order is heaven's first law, and this confessed,
Some are and must be greater than the rest.
More rich, more wise."

Strength must ever have an advantage over
weakness, sagacity over simplicity, and wisdom
over ignorance. This is according to the
ordination of nature, and no institutiou of man
can repeal the decree. Pardon the digression,
for I find I am like the preacher, who made
three points in his discourse, 1st. took his text,

[Column 3]
2nd departed from it, 3rd never got back to it
again.
	In the opening remarks it was stated, that
words are the expression of the mind, the cloth-
ing of thought, as a rule they have definite
significations. All admit this, all agree the
terms man, mankind means women as well as
men, in religion, science, literature and song;
everywhere and at all times. Children implies
boys and girls, and in their amusements and
innocent plays are precisely alike. On one
point, however, we do not see eye to eye, and
that is in the high towering domain of politics.
Here we enter upon holy ground, here we must
take off our shoes and tread lightly, here we
must drop half the brains and half the heart
of the nation, for in political lingo man, men
means exclusively the "lords of creation." And
as a necessary corollary governments derive
their just powers from the consent of the mas-
culine gender, and women have no rights pol-
itically, that the house of lords are bound to
respect. Words rightly interpreted however,
in politics, as well as religion, give woman her
just rights, and when things are done by com-
mon consent, she is included as a party to the
transaction. When the Savior says, He will
draw all men unto him, "he who believeth and
is baptized shall be saved—and Paul—"God
wills all men to be saved." Do they mean
exclusively men? I think not. Else Paul
made a mistake when he said, "the man is not
without the woman in the Lord."
	A monarchy may prescribe woman in her
rights, and perhaps survive, but a Republic
cannot afford to let half its intellect and
morality lie fallow. Her assistance is needed
in public affairs. Circumstances and vocations
create distinctions, where originally equality
prevailed; or "as the original organization, is
to the circumstances with which we are sur-
rounded, so will be the character and qualifica-
tions compounded out of both." A kind of
moral rule of three. I maintain this axiom,
which I think cannot be successfully con-
troverted. That morally woman is the best,
intellectually equal, physically lower, spirit-
ually (as a mass) higher. If this is correct
shall the better element be politically sub-
servient to the worse? It may be said that the
great affairs of the world have ever owed their
origin and development to man, that he shapes
the destinies of the race. I do not concur in
the sentiment, but were it so, may it not be said
that woman shapes the race. "Is not the
foot that rocks the cradle, the hand that rocks
the world," and does not an eminent writer say
truthfully, "That in France there has not been
a single great, good or bad, thing in politics in
literature or in art, which has not been inspired
by woman." What is true of France, is to
some extent true of other nations; women have
been good rulers, and filled creditably promin-
ent positions. We read of the queen of heaven
(is the position merely nominal) and by parity
of reasoning other offices there are held by wo-
man. Honorable women, implies more than
merely moral qualities, it signifies rank, pos-
ition, office. In Utah, Wyoming, and to a
limited degree in other places, women hold the
elective franchise, and to some extent are
entitled to hold office. The new Constitution
of Utah has made quite an advance in remov-
ing her disabilities; but the end is not yet, the
interstices that admit the rays of light into our
political theory are enlarging, and soon the full
light of day will be shining upon us. The


[Column 1]
mere right to vote, to help others to obtain
office, is far short of political freedom; as the
word white has been stricken from our Con-
stitution, so its "twin relic" will go down
to the tomb of the capulets, and in a discriminat-
ing political sense, be no more called to mind.
But it may be said that if equal political rights
are extended to woman, she will be ambitious
and clamorous for office, verily not so. The
past and present of her career establishes
clearly the reverse, What is the testimony of
Wyoming? What is the testimony of history?
What is the testimony of her native inherent
modesty? With very few exceptions, her
noble impulses, her womanly instincts have
shown, that she is neither presumptuous nor
aggressive; "that man may safely trust in her,
for she will do good and not evil all the days
of her life." "Strength and honor are her
clothing, and she looketh well to the ways of
her household, her children arise up and call
her blessed, and her works praise her in the
gates." I am so much of a Democratic Republi-
can, that without any partial interdictions, I
can safely trust in the primary and caucus
gatherings to select suitable candidates for the
respective offices to be filled. It surely does
not argue very strongly for mens' genius and
courage to be fearful, that woman with so
many odds against her, will out general him
and get away with the most important offices,
and those too that she is not capacitated to fill. 
Some men profess to believe that a few Latter-
day Saints in the Rocky Mountains, if let
alone, will revolutionize and bring the world
to bondage or grief. I think there is no danger
in either case. Give woman and the Mormons
their equal and just rights and privileges, and
the Republic is safe, society will not be demor-
alized, the world will be made happier and
"liberty will be proclaimed throughout all the
land to all the inhabitants thereof."
	Theocracy gives woman her true position for
under that rule all things are done by com-
mon consent. She has the right to vote and her
vote counts equally with the greatest ruler. 
She also possesses the right to hold office, and
does she not fill the position creditably? In
all the relations and duties of life, we may not-
withstanding our egotistical notions still cherish
the unpopular view that woman is a helpmate
to man, that "it is not good for him to be
alone," either spiritually or temporally, that
in the family, social, religious and political
circle she is a co-worker. Does she not even
fill an important place in war? Archidamia,
Veturia, and Joan of Arc., are not the only
heroines, who have said, "Deliberate not
whither we are to fly but what we are to do."
And who by their powers and encouragement
have saved armies and cities. Was not her
services in the late war, between the north and
the south very essential, and how many under
God owe their lives to her tender care, and in
the mobbings and drivings and travels of the
Latter-day Saints, what a record written and
unwritten of her noble daring influence and
help. But is she only a helpmate in difficulty
and distress? Can it only be said of her

"When pain and sickness clouds the brow
A ministering angel then art thou."

This is indeed true, but is this all the truth? Is
the domestic relation of wife, mother, daughter,
sister all? Is this her acme of advancement,
to be a servant? Or does she stand side by
side with man in the professions, in literature,
on the platform, stage, in the social circle, in
poetry and song. The restrictionists say, that
it is because of their high regard for women,
that they would keep her out of politics, that
the political element would degrade her, that
it is demoralizing, and instead of elevating,
would place her on a lower plane. I am fully
aware that politics is at rather a low ebb, in
many parts of the country; and particularly in

[Column 2]
large cities and thickly settled places; is in fact
in the slums of degradation, and that this too
has been brought about by man's management. 
If under the complete control of man for so
many ages, it has attained that condition,
what assurance have we of improvement with
the present directors? Would not wisdom sug-
gest the introduction of a new element in the
body politic. It certainly would make it no
worse. I hold that neither sex alone is com-
petent to rightly control the political destiny of
the whole. It is by uniting them that the best
results are obtained. God intended man and
woman to supplement each other, and no
system of government can be perfect till the
divine theory is carried out. The caucus must
be elevated by the introduction of women, to
the equality of the parlor. Society with its
culture and refinement, is always above politics
in its moral tone. The world is full of exam-
ples illustrative of the refining influence of one
sex upon the other. Half a dozen girls will
rescue a whole university from rowdyism, while
a few boys are sufficient to train a girls' school
to refinement. This law of mutual restraint
and influence is general, and politics must be
brought within the sphere of its operation, if we
would purify the political atmosphere.
	Politics being the science of government
properly it is a point of education, and children
ought to be taught its principles and precepts,
and learn its nature and powers. Woman is
the early trainer of the infant mind. She gives
the first inpressions, and to do so successfully
should understand well the theory and practice
of the subject; especially is this needed as the
mind expands, and begins to reach forth and
gather up fruits of knowledge that are strewn
here and there, about its feet. It is said how-
ever that if woman becomes a politician, it
will be likely to lead to family jars and dis-
cords, that one may be a republican, another a
democrat, one a locofoco, another a whig; and
that bedlam generally will be let loose. If that
is correct reasoning, "Ignorance is bliss. Tis
folly to be wise," and the less woman knows
the less she will oppose. But we are not in-
formed why it will apply to politics more
than to any other intellectual acquirement,
religion, science, art, or literature. Is the
woman well versed in the great questions of
the day, less companionable because of her
general knowledge? In fact is not the reverse
true? Does not intelligence cleave to intel-
ligence, and tend to oneness, union, friendship?
Intellectual development, will not tend to dis-
cord, but will strengthen those endearing ties
that bind families, and communities together. 
In the foregoing observations the following
points are made to appear. The natural
equality of man including woman. The right
of the majority to govern. Their duty so to
govern as to preserve, inviolate the sacred
obligations of equal justice. That politically
things are done by common consent. That
governments derive their just powers from the
consent of the governed. That among the
rights held in common, are life, liberty, pro-
perty and pursuit of happiness. That the more
general the intelligence the greater the strength. 
That to have full power to exercise its proper
functions, governments must be seated in the
affections of the people. That privileged classes
or partial education, while portions are kept
in ignorance, is not conductive to union nor
strength. That the practice as well as the
theory of government needs to be enjoyed by
the people. That woman as well as man is
under God the arbiter of her own destiny. 
That constitutions nor laws can rightfully dis-
criminate because of sex; and that the field of
politics as well as science, art, literature and
the professions is open to man and woman, and
in fact in all the relations, and duties of life,
woman should be side by side, a co-worker with,
and helpmate for man. They belong to the

[Column 3]
same great family and their interests are iden-
tical and mutual.					L. E. H.
	American Fork, June 7, 1882.


18	WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.


LIVE FOR A PURPOSE.

WRITTEN FOR THE PRIMARY.

	I wonder if we all realize what we were
placed on this earth for; what purpose the Lord
sent us here for, in these "the last days?" I
am afraid a great many of us are too apt to
think there is no higher aim on earth than to
spend all our time in seeking amusement and
recreation, instead of striving to gain all the
knowledge and wisdom that is to be obtained.
We should all live for a purpose; and have
some high standard of excellence to attain to,
before we leave this frail existence to go to
some higher sphere of action on the other side.
If we as a people fully understood the law of
the Lord as we should, I think we would all
try to do better, and seek to serve God more
fully than we do at present. That we may do
this, and strive to keep his commandments, is
the sincere wish of
						NELLIE SNOW.
Pine Valley, Utah, Jan. 3d, 1882.


FLOWERS.

	Could there be a more beautiful spot on
earth than our own mountain home at the present
time? The fragrance of the rose is wafted
along every breeze, and the very air is so fresh
and sweet that it would seem none of us could
inhale enough of its life giving freshness.
How charming the little cottages look, with
the honeysuckle and woodbine climbing
around the doors and windows! The house
plants are all alive with blossoms, from the
highly colored geranium, to the pale heliotrope;
while sweet faced children play among the
soft grass and many hued pansies, and peep out
of vine clad doors and windows as if to contrast
their bright blue eyes and rosy cheeks with the
flowers about them. Their sweet voices float
upon the air and join with the birds that chirp
and trill on every branch and bough. Flow-
ers brighten up the inert gardens and make
the poorest little room look bright and cheer-
ful. They bring new life into the sick room
and are the only tokens of remembrance to
our dearly loved dead. They are the sweetest
gift that love can bestow. They bring to us
thoughts of a holier and a better life, and by
their pale hues and sweet perfume seem to lead
us there. The loftiest poet has found in
flowers his sweetest songs. The lowliest peas-
ant in them has felt his chief delight. They
are the emblems of purity and love, and like
the flower of our being, the soul, if watched
and tended will each day develop newer and
purer beauties.
							BEATRICE.


AFTER the battle of arms comes the battle
of history.

	WOMEN at Work, a very ably edited mag-
azine, formerly published at Louisville Ky.,
will be hereafter issued from Brattleboro, Vt.
Success to the enterprise.

	MRS. Matilda M. Ricker has been admitted
to practice law in the court of the District of
Columbia. At the examination before the
committee of the Bar Association, Mrs. Ricker
stood higher than the nineteen men examined
at the same time. This speaks well for women,
as law is one of the professions in which it has
been said women could not excel.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 19﻿


HER DREAM.

	She lieth quietly; And o'er her silvered hair
The moonlight pours its vail,
Her clasped hands lie upon her breast—
For sleep hath closed her eyes.
And in her sleep the curtain of a dream
Hath lifted up:
And showed to her a room;
A room, both light and warm,
And filled with whisperers;
Who softly glide about with pity in their eyes,
	for her, the sleeper, as she moans with pain;
The sufferings keen; but as the dreamer feels the
	pang, she crieth—
No matter Lord, how much I bear,
So I may be a mother.
For she was childless.

	The watchers take the child when born,
And lay it to the mother's breast,
She feels the velvet hands and tiny face
Close to her heart, and as she does she murmureth,
My little baby, all mine own!
He belongeth not to some one else,
But is mine own! my very own!
Then as they take the child so that the mother
	rest, she chargeth them,
That they hold not the baby to the window
Lest he might suffer—
And as she gives the careful charge,
She feels her heart-strings thrill and quiver with the
	love-chords of sweet motherhood.

	The vision faded—God pity her!
And who but they who have felt,
The passionate wish for a little babe,
Can know the longing,
For such a dream to be fulfilled.

	But in eternity the bliss of motherhood
May be the greater and diviner to those who, in this life
Have known the emptiness
The weary lonliness of that word childless.

								HOME-SPUN.


[Column 1]
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Continued.

	Mrs. Horne has been one of the favored
ones who have had the privilege of entertain-
ing and waiting upon the Prophet Joseph, and
also his brother Hyrum, the Patriarch. At
the time the Prophet visited Governor Carlin,
Mrs. Horne was residing in Quincy. Although
the Governor received Prest. Smith very
courteously, yet he had no sooner started back
to Nauvoo than he sent an officer with a writ
after him, to bring him back to Quincy for
trial. While Pres. Smith was in the magis-
trate's court he told the officers if they would
permit him to go where he wished for the
night, he would be forthcoming at any hour
in the morning that they might name. They
made no objection and he went back to Mrs.
Horne's and informed her he came as a prisoner.
He was wearing light summer clothing and as
the next day would be Sunday he felt that he
would like a change of apparel; he asked Mrs.
Horne what he should do. She said, "I will
wash and iron your clothes to-night." He was
very unwilling to allow her to do it, think-
ing she was not strong enough; but, however,
she felt that it would be a pleasure to wait up-
on the Prophet—for indeed he was greatly be-
loved by the people.
	Mrs. Horne refers to this with great satisfac-
tion, and also to the blessing he left upon her
and her household when he went away, for
their kindness to him in his hour of need.
	In the month of March the Hornes moved
to Nauvoo, traveling by wagon over the then
wild prairies. The roads were very bad and
they were obliged to travel very slowly. They
were obliged to spend the night on the open
prairie, and Mrs. Horne describes it as a

[Column 2]
terrible night. The cows got loose in the night
and Mr. Horne was obliged to get up and go
back after them. Mrs. Horne says, "The night
was dark and the wolves were howling on
every side. I was in fearful suspense lest my
husband should be torn to pieces by the raven-
ous wolves. I watched and prayed until I
heard his welcome footsteps. How thankful
and relieved I was on his safe return! The
next night we arrived safely in Nauvoo. My
husband purchased a piece of land from Squire
Wells. It was situated on Mulholland Street,
about a quarter of a mile from the Temple."
	As there were no houses for rent, Mr. Horne
put up a lumber shanty, in which the family
lived about eight months. In this temporary
shelter from wind and weather Mrs. Horne had
another son born on the fourteenth of May
1842, and she named him Joseph Smith. There
were many inconveniences and annoyances
consequent upon living in such a rude build-
ing, but most of all there were rats and they
frequently carried away articles of clothing;
but worse still, sometimes bit the children.
One of them got into bed with the little babe
when it was about two months old and bit its
feet so that they were terribly inflamed for
some time.
	In the month of November Mr. Horne had
partly finished his house and the family moved
in, though it was by no means comfortable.
Mrs. Horne says, "Shortly after we moved, my
husband accidently cut a very deep gash in
his foot. He was laid up in bed for several
weeks. What a dreadful time I had dressing
his wound, taking care of my children, attend-
ing to my household duties, feeding horses,
milking cows and tramping around in the snow
looking for some one to chop my wood!" Yet
Mrs. Horne bore all these difficulties like a real
heroine, and a woman of God. There was no
complaint or repining, no desire to return to
to the world, where all things had prospered
with them; she remembered that in all ages
the Saints of God had borne persecution, and
she was willing to suffer, if need be, to secure
"a more eternal weight of glory" hereafter.
Mrs. Horne united herself with the Relief
Society, which had been organized by Joseph
Smith, on the seventeenth day of March pre-
vious to her arrival in Nauvoo. She became
much interested, at that early period, in the
elevation of woman, and has ever since advo-
cated, what is now considered one of the im-
portant questions of the age, "woman's rights."
The Saints became more prosperous afterwards,
sickness abated, Nauvoo was built up and
beautified until it gained the appropriate ap-
pellation of "Nauvoo the Beautiful." Mr.
Horne, through diligent labor and persever-
ance, gradually obtained the blessings of life
and succeeded in establishing himself in quite
a flourishing business, and his family were
looked upon by the Saints as quite well situ-
ated.
	On the second of April, 1844, Mrs. Horne
received "A Patriarchal Blessing" under the
hands of Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch of the
Church. She says the promises made to her
in that blessing are being daily fulfilled.
Among the many promises made to Mrs. Horne
in this blessing, was this one, which, at that
time, must have seemed a little remarkable,
"you shall have an inheritance upon the moun-
tains of Ephraim." This was long previous to
the exodus and our subsequent removal to these
mountain vales. There are many other things
spoken of in her blessing that it is easy to see
have been fulfilled, and that it would have
been impossible for Bro. Hyrum to know except
by the spirit of prophecy. This ought to be
convincing testimony to any who doubt concern-
ing a knowledge of the revelations of God to
his people.
	Mrs. Horne, like many other women, felt
most deeply the loss occasioned by the martyr-

[Column 3]
dom of Joseph and Hyrum. It is not possible
for those who never were acquainted with these
great and good men, to comprehend how de-
votedly they were loved and in what reverence
they were held by the people, nor how over-
whelming was the grief felt by the Saints at
their untimely death. Mrs. Horne says: "On
the twenty-eighth day of June I took my last
look on earth of Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
May I never experience another day similar
to that. I do not wish to recall the scene.
	Mrs. Horne was at that time in very delicate
health and on the ninth of July after, became
again a mother. This was her fifth son, and
was called Richard Stephen. Mrs. Horne was
very ill for some time after the babe's birth,
but finally recovered. In addition to her
household duties she spent much time in assist-
ing her husband in his store; it must be ap-
parent to the reader that she was a woman of
more than ordinary ability and tact, to be able
to keep house and attend to several little
children and still find time to devote to her
husband's business.

To be Continued.


﻿OBITUARY.

	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of Mrs. Elizabeth Clark Haws Tanner, wife
of Bishop J. S. Tanner, who died April 2d 1882,
39 years of age, the mother of 13 children, leaves
a husband and 5 children to mourn her loss.
Joseph E. Tanner, the eldest son, was called on
a mission to England at the April Conference
1881, was taken down with a fever and died on
the 22d of April, 1881, being 19 years of age:
after which Sister Tanner and the Bishop took
a trip to St. George, with part of their family
and did some work in the Temple for the living
and the dead. March 14th 1882, Sister Tanner
gave birth to a little girl. On the 19th of the
same month Annie Tanner White, died in Pro-
vo, leaving a husband and young baby, 11 days.
old. The fond mother not seeing her daughter
again in the flesh, and almost idolizing the pro.
mising son, that was taken to a better land,
when all ready for the mission, every day grew
weaker. The little baby dying also 5 days before
the mother.
	Sister Tanner was a devoted wife and mother,
kind and benevolent to the poor and all within
her reach. She was First Counselor to Mrs.
Elizabeth Lunt, who presided in the 3d district
where her liberality will be missed. She was
also Treasurer for the silk Association, Southern
District.
	We pray God our Heavenly Father to comfort
the bereaved husband, children and relations.
								M. A. H.

	At Calls Fort, Box Elder County, Utah; April
14th, 1882. Mary Wheately Whitworth, wife
of George Whitworth. Aged 44 years, 3 months
and 10 days. Deceased was born December 25th,
1837, at Hilkisten, Derbyshire, England. She
embraced the Gospel, and was baptized March
21st, 1854; emigrated to Utah in 1861, resided
from that time at Calls Fort to the time of her
death. She was the mother of 14 children, 10 of
whom are living. She was a devoted wife, a
loving mother, and a true and faithful Latter-
day Saint. Her husband, children and a large
circle of friends mourn her loss. She was the
First Counselor of the Relief Society of this.
place.

Farewell dear mother, we do not mourn thee,
	As one dead, but gone to rest.
From thy labors and thy suffering,
	With thy kindred to be blest.

							MARTHA ALLEN.


20	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Connell
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	—	JULY 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
AN INTERESTING TOUR.

	We have just returned from a tour through
Sevier and part of Piute Counties, in the interest
of womens' organizations, and also the Deseret
Hospital. We left this city on Wednesday
morning June 14, accompanied by Mrs. E. How-
ard. Our immediate destination was Richfield,
where the Sisters' Conference of Sevier Stake
was to be held on the 16 and 17 of June, and
arrived in Richfield on Thursday evening.
Friday morning the Relief Society Conference of
Sevier Stake convened in the Bowery at Rich-
field, Mrs. Elizabeth Bean presiding; her Coun-
selors Mrs. T. M. Thurber and Mrs. F.
Spencer on the platform. Pres. Spencer of
Sevier Stake, and several Bishops were present.
Mrs. Bean conducted the exercises with ease
and dignity. The Presidents of the several
branches of Relief Society in Sevier Stake gave
verbal reports as follows: First and Second
Ward Richfield, Glenwood, Annabella Inverury
Monroe; after which the meeting was addressed
by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. Howard Salt Lake
City, Mrs. E. Brown Pleasant Grove, and Mrs.
Lucinda Houd, Beaver.
	In the afternoon verbal reports were given
from Koosharom, Vermilion, and Redmond.
Sisters from Salt Lake City made some remarks
and Pres. Spencer in a few words expressed
himself well pleased with the reports and the
teachings of the sisters. Mrs. E. Bean and Mrs.
Thurber each gave some good counsel and the
officers of the central organization of the Relief
Society were unanimously sustained by the
Conference also the Relief Society officers of
Seveir Stake and the Presidents of the several
branches. Conference adjourned for three
months.		
	Saturday morning the Conference of Y. L. M.
I. A. Sevier Stake, convened in the Bowery,
Coun. Celia E. Bean presiding. Y. L. A., of
Richfield, Glenwood, Monroe, Koosharem, Jos-
eph City, Inverury, and Aurora, were severally
reported. Mrs. Wells and Mrs, Howard, ad-
dressed the young people on education, deport-
ment, spiritual culture, and politics; urging
the young ladies to study the laws of life and
health, to read good books, to acquaint them-
selves with history, and seek to obtain a general
knowledge of what is transpiring in the world.
Officers of the central board Y. L. M. I. A., were
sustained by unanimous vote, also Stake and
local officers. The Conference adjourned for
three months.
	Saturday afternoon the Primary Conference
was held at the same place. Coun. Lucy Bell
presiding. Verbal reports were given from most
of the Associations in the Stake, and several
exercises, consisting of singing, reading, reciting
and essays, were well rendered by the children.
A manuscript paper was read called "The
Primary Guide." This was a pleasing part of
the programme. The children were addressed
by the Sisters from Salt Lake, who encouraged

[Column 2]
them to diligence and commended their good
order and promptness in responding to the calls
of the President. The general authorities of
the P. A. were sustained by vote, alao the Stake
and branch officers. Mrs. Lucy Bell made a few.
remarks and Conference was adjourned for three
months.
	The next morning we commenced a tour of
the Southern part of the Stake. Bishop Joseph
S. Horne and Bro. Salsbury of Richfield accom-
panied the party, which consisted, besides these
two gentlemen, of six ladles. Meetings were
held at Elsinore, Joseph, Monroe, Annabella and
Inverury. Tuesday evening we returned to
Richfield, and on Wednesday morning started
with one team and Brother Thomas Butler as
charioteer, for Grass Valley, going by the way of
Glenwood, where we met with the people in the
school-house and then proceeded on our way to
Burrville the first settlement in Grass Valley.
We went through a portion of King's meadows,
green and beautiful, and leaving there traveled
through what is known as Bear Valley canon;
the mountain scenery was wonderful indeed,
and every moment one’s attention was attracted
to something marvelous or delightful. The
roads however were the roughest over which we
had ever journeyed, and the poor horses were so
tired and we so frightened that we walked over
the most difficult and dangerous places. Leav-
ing the canon with its flowers, shrubbery, trees,
and magnificent rocks in every form and color
we passed through dog-valley where the cunning
little prairie dogs peeped out at every turn.
About dusk we reached Burrville, as dusty and
weary as any travelers need be. Br. and Sister
Burr were extremely kind and we rested and
refreshed ourselves, and the next morning went
over to Cedar Grove, where the people from
three settlements were assembled at 10, a. m.,
and at 2. p. m. for meeting; at noon the tables
were spread in the bowery at the grove, and
the pic nic under the beautiful old cedars was a
most enjoyable affair. The wind was blowing
just sufficiently to make delightful music, weird
and enchanting, that to one in pensive mood
was most gratefully soothing, especially at the
approach of evening. The next morning we left
Grass Valley with two teams, accompanied by
Pres. A, K. Thurber, who seemed much gratified
by the visit of the sisters.
	The road wound round through diversified
scenery, so grand and imposing that it filled the
mind with a rich store of material for contempla-
tion; and to an admirer of nature’s charms and
mysteries it was an open book, which one might
spend years of time in reading. We went to
the extreme end ot what is termed Rabbit
Valley; and up among the red mountains of
solid rock. These are in every form and style of
nature’s architecture. One might easily imagine
them the ruins of old castles, fortresses and for-
tifications, and indeed to a vivid imagination
there were pictures of petrified soldiers, knights
in armor, ladies in the full costume of the an-
cient days, monks, and veiled nuns, and all the
appendages one could need to embellish these
same picturesque old ruins. One might term
these legendary rocks, and if the traditions of
the aborigines of these mountains are to be
credited, the legends would be quite as startling
as any of the orient. But one must not indulge
too far, and therefore we come down from these
flights of fancy, to facts as they do exist to day.
We knew this was a wild and desolate waste of
country, that a few bravo men, and heroic women
have partially subdued, by hard labor and the per-
severance of pioneers of the desert. Wherever
there is a green spot aud a little water, the peo-
ple have cultivated the ground and succeeded
by dint of hard labor and close application of
sinew and muscle, in making gardens and

[Column 3]
homes. The Saints in these valleys are feeling
well, contented and happy. Away from the
busy scenes of turmoil and strife, secluded and
at peace with all mankind, it was a pleasure
to meet with them and realize their condition.
One remark struck me forcibly, it was so in
contrast with the feeling expressed here at
home. It was that in Rabbit valley, they are
never pressed for time, they have any amount
of it. They have no idea of the hurry and bustle
of the town, so if any one gets out of time it
would be well for them to emigrate to Rabbit
valley where they are so well supplied.
	After attending meetings at Lea Freemont
and Thurber, we started on our journey home-
ward, by way of Fish Lake. The day was fine,
the scenery beautiful, and the tall aspens
quivered, and shivered, and glimmered in the
sunlight. The Lake is certainly one of the
most beautiful sights, and those who have visit-
ed Switzerland say it is like a veritable Swiss
Lake. The water is a magnificent blue, and
changable, and the green islands dotted with
cattle grazing, completed a perfect picture. We
remained just long enough to rest and feed the
horses, and eat lunch under the tall pinion
pines, and then left the lake and all its inspir-
ing beauty, to pursue our toilsome way over
the rough mountain roads; where we revel in
upper air sufficiently light to make one dizzy.
Bluebirds, robins and pretty brown birds too,
caroled forth their sweet songs in the cedars and
pines.
	Two young eagles perched themselves on the
high rocks by the roadside to take a look at us,
and sailed off over our heads. On our way home
we held meetiugs at Vermilion, Aurora, Selina
and Redmond. At the last named place we
said good bye to the good sisters and brethren of
Sevier Stake, and turned our faces homeward.
Hon. A. K. Thurber and Judge George W.
Bean gave us all the information we could wish
relative to the settlement of the country by our
people, and also Indian traditions and legends
which were very interesting indeed. We have
brought home pleasant remembrances of our
tour and the many kindnesses and courtesies of
the Bishops in the different settlements, and
the brethren and sisters generally.


OVATION TO THE OLD FOLKS.

	The 28th of June was devoted to an enter-
tainment in the Tabernacle in this City, for the
aged people from this and all the adjacent
counties. The invitation was extended to all
over seventy years of age without distinction.
The exercises in the Tabernacle commenced at
10 A. M. On the stand were Presidents John
Taylor and George Q. Cannon; Apostles Wilford
Woodruff, Erastus Snow, Franklin D. Richards
and John Henry Smith; Coun. D. H. Wells,
Patriarch John Smith, Bishops Edward Hunter
and R. T. Burton; Prest. Angus M. Cannon and
Coun. Joseph E. Taylor, Mayor Jennings, Capt.
W. H. Hooper. Croxall's silver band, American
Fork brass band, Ogden brass band, and the
Fourth Ward Ogden band. Several of the old-
est veterans were seated on the Bishop's stand.
President Taylor presided over the assembly.
After singing by the Tabernacle choir, prayer
by Prest. Woodruff; there was music by Croxall's
band, and Mayor Jennings delivered an address
of welcome, followed with music by the Ogden
brass band and speech by Prest. Taylor, and Prest.
Cannon; The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth,
was then sung by Miss L. Nebeker, Mrs. E. L.
Grow, Messrs. W. H. Foster and J. Morgan.
	A recess was given and a thousand sacks con-
taining cakes and candy were distributed to the
old people. The bands played and W. C. Dun-
bar performed upon the Scotch bagpipes.


Bishop Edward Hunter, who is in his ninetieth
year, addressed the congregation. Mrs. L.
Careless, with her wonderful voice, sung "Dear
Heart We're Growing Old." Prof. Daynes per-
formed a fine solo on the organ and Br. Dunbar
sang "My Old Wife and I." The Primary
Association then presented to each of the old
folks over seventy, a bouquet of flowers artistic-
ally arranged. Mrs. Susan Leveridge aged one
hundred years, the oldest lady in the assembly,
was introduced and bore her testimony to the
latter day work. Those over seventy were then
invited to a free entertainment in the theatre.
"At the close of the services Prest. Taylor said:
I want to offer this proposition; that we will aid
in maintaining the liberty proclaimed in the
early days of this Republic, when upon the bell
that was tolling in Philadelphia was written:
"Proclaim liberty throughout the land and to all
the inhabitants thereof." All who are in favor
of sustaining the principles that were then
enunciated, hold up the right hand." Choir
sung an anthem. Benediction by Prest. G. Q.
Cannon.
	The 29th of June, the old folks assembled in
Liberty Park, where all needful preparations had
been made for their comfort and happiness.
Bands were playing at intervals, a platform had
been erected, festooned and ornamented, and
streamers were floating with the stars and
stripes and also some with the names of the
several states and territories. A pavilion had
been built that would accomodate about eight
hundred persons seated at tables. None but
those over seventy were allowed to be sealed at
the first table. The dinner was furnished by
the Relief Society of the several wards in this
city and adjacent wards. and many beautiful
young girls flitted about helping to serve the
aged people. The tables were literally loaded
with good things, and ornamented with flowers.
It is estimated that there were fifteen thousand
people on the grounds. At 11 o'clock the
audience was called to order and singing and
prayer were the first exercises, Elder George
Goddard moved that Elder C. R. Savage take
charge of the proceedings of the day, and it
was announced that a general hand-shaking
would be the first thing on the programme.
The Juvenile martial bands of the city number-
ing seven bands were consolidated into
one, Prof. Beesley in charge, and played some
airs on the stand.
	There were a large number of prizes of differ-
ent kinds distributed to the very aged people,
and the scene was one of great interest. Sougs
were sang and a few short speeches were made,
all congratulatory to the aged veterans. Every
one seemed to be "having a good time," and
there is no doubt that it was a most enjoyabls
affair. The arduous labors of the committee
should be fully appreciated by the people, for
they certainly succeeded in making it a com-
plete success.
	Red, white and blue were the colors worn by
the old people. A bow of red ribbon designated
those over seventy but not yet eighty, over
eighty and not yet ninety a bow of blue ribbon,
and for all over ninety a rosette of white ribbon
was the distinguishing mark. Liberal donations
were made by the citizens to the affair and those
who had carriages and teams contributed to the
comfort of the visitors, by taking them from
the depot to the Tabernacle, the grove and back
to the station, on their return home. This was
one of the grandest affairs that has ever been
celebrated in Utah. Respect to the silver greys
is always beautiful and honorable, and is sure to
meet the approbation of heaven.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 21


IT costs more to avenge wrongs than to bear
them.


DESERET HOSPITAL.

	In our last issue we gave the organization of the
Deseret Hospital Association. The circulars are
now ready, containing the rules and regulations
of the Hospital, and will be distributed in the
different Stakes as quickly as practicable. One
of the provisions of the articles of association
provides that each Relief Society and Mutual
Improvement Association shall contribute one
dollar every month to assist in meeting the
current expenses of the Institution. This pro-
position is sanctioned by the First Presidency of
the Church, and by the Presidents of the Asso-
ciations, and while the sum required from each
Society is very small, yet in the aggregate if
punctually paid by all the Associations, will
form a staple fund upon which the managers
may draw to meet such contingencies as cannot
be provided for by the earnings of the Institu-
tion. The Medical Board have sent to New
York for a full supply of the very best surgical
instruments and hospital supplies, and in its
medical equipment the new Hospital will not
suffer at all by comparison with those that have
had a longer existence in the community.
	The medical staff is composed of members of
the profession, who have already won the re-
spect and confidence of the public, and whose
professional standing is a guarantee of the
success of the new enterprise in the department
over which they preside. Dr. Ferguson brings
to aid her in filling the position of resident Sur-
geon, to which she has been appointed, the ex-
perience of twenty years in the profession, sup-
plemented by an extensive acquaintance with
all kinds of Hospital work, gained during her
recent visit East under the instruction of the
most eminent surgeons in New York. The
members of the visiting board Dr. S. B.
Young and Dr. W. F. Anderson are gentlemen
who have no superiors in this Territory in pro-
fessional skill, social standing, and every attri-
bute that qualifies them for success. They have
the interests of this people at heart, and will
spare no effort to make the Hospital prosperous
in all its departments.
	Dr. Pratt is well known to all our people, and
has made a specialty of diseases of the eye and
ear, in the treatment of which she has had and
doubtless will have marked success. We hope
the Latter-day Saints will appreciate the efforts
that are being made to establish this Institution,
where those who are sick and injured will have
the best medical and surgical treatment, and
nursing that can be afforded them, together
with the inestimable privilege of the free admin-
istration of all the ordinances of the Church in
their behalf, and that they will sustain it by
their faith, prayers and good works. It was ex-
pected that the Hospital would be opened
on the 20th of June, but circumstances
have arisen through the parties occupying
the building not moving at the time agreed on,
but it is hoped that it will be in readiness on the
10th of July, and will be dedicated by the First
Presidency of the Church as soon after as prac-
ticable.
	All comunications in reference to board or
treatment, to be made to Dr. E. B. Ferguson the
resident physician, by mail or personally. The
school of Anatomy will open about the middle of
July.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE article entitled "Woman In Politics" in
this issue is well worth the attention of all our
readers and we trust those who are working
for woman's advancement in the world will
notice such remarks, coming as they do from a
man, and one who has sat in the Halls of the
Legislative Assembly regularly for more than
twenty years.﻿

[Column 2]
	Childrens Fair of Davis Stake, at Farmington.
on Tuesday and Wednesday 27th and 28th
under the dirrection of Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers,
Prest. of the Primary Associations of that
county. Mrs. E. S. Clawson Prest. of P. A.
Salt Lake Stake and her Counselor Miss Julia
Druce with thirty children from this city went
up to the Fair. They were met at the Farming-
ton depot by the Juvenile martial band, who
escorted them to the Court House where the
Fair was held. A great variety of useful and
tasteful articles were on exhibition, the work of
the little boys and girls; which showed their in-
dustry, tact and skill, and gave promise of much
talent and industry to be utilized in the future.
The day was a pleasant one and the Fair a com-
plete success. The afternoon was spent in the
grove, a little distance away, in play and pas-
time.
	MISS Ada Dwyer, daughter of James Dwyer,
Esq., returned on Saturday evening, June 10,
from the East. This estimable young lady has
been absent 10 months, the greater portion of
which time has been spent in Boston in the
study of elocution, under the most noted elo-
cutionists, she has finished her studies with
unabated assiduity and has made the most sat-
isfactory progress. On Monday evening, the
9th inst. she gave an entertainment at the
Theatre, which was attended by a very select
and appreciative audience. She gave 4 selec-
tions, showing her versatility; but in that from
Henry the viii. displayed most marked ability,
her power of conception and execution was a sur-
prise her friends. The entertainment was varied
by choice music, and was a success in every par-
ticular. On the evening of the 3d of July, the
young lady will appear with the Home Dramatic
Club, taking the leading part in "Blow for
Blow."
 	OUR honored delegate, George Q. Cannon
returned home on Wednesday evening June 21.
The event was made the occasion of special.
demonstration which must have been gratifying
to the distinguished gentleman. He was met
at Ogden by a large party, from this city, of his
brethren who welcomed him home. At that
place a large number of citizens assembled, with
the brass band of that city, greeted him. At
the settlements on the way down he was also
greeted with similar demonstrations. At Salt
Lake, a large crowd assembled and a couple of
brass bands—the 10th and 11th ward bands—
played as the train came in. Brother Cannon
moved among those gathered at the places men-
tioned, shaking hands with them, and receiving
their congratulations. On the Sunday following
he spoke in the Tabernacle to a large congrega-
tion, and referred to the progress of the
Edmunds Bill, and the refusal of the House of
Representatives to give him his seat. He said
he felt cheerful over it, and that persons in
Washington who met him said, "You are the
most cheery man I ever saw, for what you are
passing through." Brother Cannon said he had
assured them by saying, "why should I not feel
cheerful? I have a larger majority than any
man on the floor of the House," Prest. Taylor
closed the services by speaking in praise of Bro.
Cannon's course, and on his motion, the cause,
of our delegate to Congress was sustained by a
unanimous vote of the congregation.
	LIBERTY PARK was formally opened on Satur-
day, June 17, with appropriate exercises. The
day was beeutiful, and quite a lengthy procession
formed in front of the City Hall and marched to
Main Street; thence down to 5th South, thence
east to the street leading to the center of the
Park, and directly south into the Park and
around the drive of the grand stand, where the
City Officials and invited guests dismounted
and took postions. The programme consisted of


Music, Croxails Silver Band, "Goblins," reading
of the resolutions relative to the opening of the
Park by Deputy Recorder H. M. Wells; song,
"Hall Smiling Morn," Union Glee Club, dedi-
catory prayer, Alderman A. H. Raleigh, Music,
'World's Great Jubilee," 6th Infantry Band,
Speech, T. B. Lewis; Music, "Pepelo Galop,"
Beesley's Martial Band; song, "Comrad es in
Arms," music, Glee Club; Speech, Ben. Sheeks,
Esq.; Music, "Col Bush Mont," Croxall's Band;
toast by Mayor Jenings, "The President of the
United States," response by Gov. Murray; toast
by Gen D. H. Wells, "The Army and Navy of
the United States," response by Gen McDowall
McCook; toast by ex-Mayor Little, "Pioneers of
Utah," response by Hon. Wilford Woodruff;
toast by Hon. Wilford Woodruff, "The Hon-
orable, and City Council of Salt Lake; response
by Mayor Jennings. The 6th Infantry band
then played, "The Dent Let Lure," and Mayer
Jennings declared the Park opened, and the
procession re-formed proceeded back to the City.
Liberty Park is a delightful spot already, and
with the improvements now contemplated will
yet be as peaceful and delightful a park as any
city can boast.


22	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
COMMENTS.

BY ONE WHO KNOWS.

Continued.

	Prof. Coyner, it seems, acted as reporter at
the Ladies' Mass Meeting held in the Theatre,
which, as he says, was one of the most remark-
able meetings that has ever been known
since the one in the garden of Eden, where a
woman was the chief speaker. "When I was
a young man," he says, "I read a book entitled
'FIFTEEN YEARS AMONG THE MORMONS;' I
was led to believe, from what I there read, that
the women of Utah were held by the men in a
kind of captivity, not being able to escape from
their degradation,	*	*	and I supposed that
as soon as the railroad, with all its non-Mormon
influences, had reached Utah, the most of the
women would gladly embrace the opportunity
of fleeing the country, to escape thraldom; but
in this I was much mistaken." This is a
fair example of the ignorance and preju-
dice under which the outside world are labor-
ing. One might suppose that when he (Coyner)
found himself so much mistaken in this that
possibly there might be other reports equally
false about the Latter-day Saints. The same
writer says: "One of the arguments in defense
of polygamy is that it is the only preventive of
the social evil.	*	*	*	But is this true?"
We answer, yes. He continues; "If it is a fact
that plural marriage does tend to develop a
virtuous state of society, does cherish and pro-
tect the sacred rights of confiding woman, does
throw a holy and sanctifying influence around
the home circle, does contribute to the bring-
ing up a well-trained, noble offspring: then the
Mormon church is justifiable in asking the
Christian world to sanction and adopt that
which produces such glorious results."
	We can testify, from experience, that this is
a fact; but, he says, "The ones who have the
best means of ascertaining the true condition
of things, in this respect, in this Territory say
that, for the same population, there is more
private prostitution and more illegitmacy in
Utah than in any other part of the civilized
world."
	"The Mormons claim that no brothel existed
in Utah before the advent of the ungodly Gen
tiles. I admit that such was likely the cas
for the very construction of Mormon socie
obviates the demand for such establishments
	This, I think, is plain enough to our unde
standing, requires no comment. "Being

[Column 2]
religious fanatics," he says, "they have now
come to the point in their growth and power
that they feel justified in throwing down the
gauntlet before the American nation, and their
battle cry is 'polygamy or death.'	*	*	*
There are thousands of women in Utah who,
if they dared do it, and if they felt it would
do any good, would crowd as many assembly
rooms and give utterance to as many strong
sentiments in denunciation of the home-des-
troying system. as have the advocates in its
favor, but the latter are with the priesthood,
the controllers of society; while the former are
so crushed by the dominant power as to
have no positive influence."
	We know just about how much of this story
to believe. There may be a very few women
of this class in Utah, but they could not say
and tell the truth, that they were ever deprived
of the right to speak, and act as they pleased
except it has been by their own husbands, as
women in the world are, of which I think he
would not complain. In proof of this we
refer our readers to some two years ago, when
the woman's bill was pending before the Legis-
lative Assembly, a few of our brethren became
quite alarmed at the thought of woman step-
ping out of her place, and possibly they
thought take into her own hands the reins of
government, and some few lost their equilibri-
um and said some very unreasonable and pro-
voking things about the sisters. Previous to
this I had felt no particular interest in the
subject of woman's rights except to vote, as I
had always done, since the privilege was gran-
ted us and was then among the most quiet and
reticent, but with a deep sense of the wrong
that had been done to those noble women,
who were only asking for their rights, which,
for centuries past, have been usurped by the
"lords of creation," I, like many others, felt
righteously indignant, and in the heat of the
battle of words, returned fire with out fear or
favor.
	This, by-the-by, was my first attempt at writ-
ing for the public, and Sister E. B. Wells add-
ed the following appropriate title, "A Content-
ed Wife." I know that it breathed the true feel-
ings of thousands of women outside of "Mormon-
dom," but who would not dare to utter them in
words.
	People can prate all they please about "Mor-
mon" thraldom, but if they want to see women
who enjoy true freedom, let them come to Utah.
	The writer admits that he has been treated as
a gentleman should be, by the Mormons, since
he has been in the Territory; but still he and
his co-workers feel it their duty, as loyal
Christian citizens, to publish all that they can
gather up from apostates, and wicked design-
ing persons in our midst to arouse the feelings
of the whole world against us, fearing that un-
less something is done quickly they will be
overpowered by what he calls the "Modern
hierarchy." After a very abusive harangue
Prof. Coyner declares to the American people
that "if something is not done soon to stop
this law-breaking, law-defying fanaticism,
either our free institutions must go down be-
neath, or with slavery it must be wiped out in
blood." He supposes the "Mormons" to be
"very bitter against the government," who
"when the opportunity comes will not hesitate
to draw the sword and fight for their religion."
	This we admit is a very natural conclusion,
and we know that the Latter-day Saints are
the only people on earth who would stand what
they do without resistance and showing fight,
and what could they do that would be a strong-
er proof of their sincerity than the follow-
ing.
	He says, "I have often wondered why the
Mormon people submitted to such dictation on
the part of the priesthood—There is no other
church whose leaders would thus dare to rule
its membership, and if the population of Utah

[Column 3]
was made up of the average American, the
yoke of the Mormon hierarchy would soon be
thrown off; but coming from the Old world the
Mormons have been so long used to obey the
dictation of those over them, without gainsay-
ing, that they now submit without a murmur
and even kiss the hand that rivets the chains
that bind them."
	The reason why there is "no other church
whose leaders would thus dare to dictate its
membership," is very obvious, this being the
only true church that has received the priest-
hood; and for his information we will just say
that the first ones who submitted to its power
were "Americans," and that although many of
the old veterans are worn out and have passed
off from this stage of action they have left be-
hind them some true and honorable represent-
atives, who expect to live and take part in
the great battle for freedom; and, to secure
this end, we intend to battle "honestly, man-
fully and patriotically," and "we want no
cowards in our band," but only those who will
remain true, not only to our religion, but to
our nations flag and bear it off triumphantly.
	But no stain of blood will be found upon
the hand of a Latter-day Saint for Truth is
our Battle axe, and though crushed to earth a
thousand times it will rise again, and at last
triumph over the wickedness with which this
earth is daily filling up her cup; while those
who only live to propogate and send adrift
their mischievous lies to bring destruction upon
an innocent people will have passed away as
chaff before the summer wind.
	The yoke of the priesthood is very easy,
and our burdens far lighter to bear, than is the
thought of submiting to the chains which they
are preparing to place upon the necks of men
and women who only claim the same rights
and privileges which are guaranteed to every
American citizen.
	 As the "Mormons" pioneered to these Rocky
mountains and have no intention to leave, if
Prof. Coyner with his delectable co-workers
feel themselves contaminated by our influence
would it not be just as well for them to "move
to some sea-girt isle" and leave the terrible
"Mormons" to themselves to "solve their prob-
lem?" or "if they could be surrounded by some
triple wall" that would confine their modern
christian influence to their own borders we as an
"American people," would be more than will-
ing.
	There are two or three extracts from discus-
sions delivered by President Brigham Young
and Heber C. Kimball in the Bowery in 1856
and 7 upon which (like all the rest) they have
put their own constructions. These are under
the heading of "Blood atonement."
	President Young says, I want all the people
to say what they will do, and I know that
God wishes all his servants, all his faithful
sons and daughters, the men and women that
inhabit this city, to repent of their wickedness
or we will cut them off."
	Now in this he had no reference to "blood
atonement." He was only speaking about the
unrighteous members who were like dead
branches that should be cut off from the
church. Then said he, "I could give you
logical reason for all the transgressions com-
mitted in this world," and after teaching some
the laws of God, as were taught by Jesus Christ
and which we believe will eventually be put
in force he said, "The time will come, and is
now nigh at hand, when those who profess our
faith, if they are guilty of what some of this
people are guilty of will find the axe laid at
the root of the tree, and they will be hewn
down. What has been must be again, for the
Lord is coming to restore all things."
	The Latter-day Saints look upon hanging as
a most barbarous practice, for it deprives the
criminal and even a murderer of the only
atonement left him that he can possibly make


for the shedding of blood and out of mercy
opportunity is offered them to make their
choice, to be shot or hung. The following is
taken from this same discourse of President
Young;
	"Any of you who understand the principle
of eternity, if you have sinned a sin requiring
the shedding of blood  except the sin unto
death, would not be satisfied nor rest untill
your blood should be spilled, that you might
gain that salvation you desire.
	"I do not feel vain, but I feel to say breth-
ren and sisters lay aside your vanity and your
feeling to exult; there will be a time when
you can exult and do it in righteousness and
mercy. There will also be a day when you 
will be brought to the test﻿—when your very
hearts and your innermost souls will melt with-
in you because of the scenes that many of you
will witness. Yes, you will be brought to the
test, when you will feel as if every thing with-
in you would dissolve. Then will be the time
you will be tried, whether you will stand the
test or fall away.
	"I have no doubt but there will be hundreds
who will leave us and go away to our enemies.
I wish they would go this fall; it might relieve
us from much trouble, for if men turn traitors
to God and his servants their blood will surely
be shed, or else they will be damned, and that
too according to the covenants.
	The test has now come and the scenes which
they predicted are to be realized, and if the
ones who have laughed and mocked at their
prophetic words and also those who are now
threatening destruction upon the servants of
God do not repent, they will be found among
the ones to whom the Lord will say "Ye have
set at nought all my counsel and would none
of my reproof. I also will laugh at your
calamity: I will mock you when your fear
cometh. When your fear cometh as desolation,
and destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when
distress and anguish cometh upon you. Then
shall they call upon me, but I will not answer;
they shall seek me early but they shall not
find me; "For that they hated knowledge, and
did not choose the fear of the Lord."
	I fail to see wherein the truth can injure
this people. We know that there are evils
among us therefore let them be brought to
the surface that we may be cleansed from them;
for it is our daily prayer that iniquity may be
purged out from our midst, for we are aware
that the net gathereth of all kinds, and the
dishonest and corrupt who are filled with envy
"daily toil with lying tongue to make the noble
seem mean as himself." Of such we wish to be
relieved, as they are a detriment to society and
a clog in the wheels of progress. "Mormon-
ism" has stood the test for over fifty years,
and, as Professor Coyner says, "If it can stand
the test, the professed claim of inspiration,
God's peculiar people, etc., may be accepted."
We are more than willing to be measured by
this standard. "The tree is to be judged by
its fruits.”


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 23


﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.

		ST. DAVID, ARIZONA.
	Our Relief Society held the third annual
meeting April 18th, 1882. President Cyrena
Merrill presiding; after the usual exercises of
singing and prayer the financial report was
read for the year ending May 4th, 1881. Cash
on hand at that time, $7.30. Donated to
Society, $21.40. Property on hand, $37.50.
Disbursed, $8.00. Cash in treasury, $14.00.
Total $88.20.
	Much good instruction was given by Elder
David P. Kimball, his Counselor D. J. Merrill
and Patriarch T. C. Merrill. They felt proud
of the sisters, for they were doing a great work
and gave much good instruction. The health
of our people is good, as a general thing; we
desire an interest in the prayers of all faithful
Saints. We pray for success to all your en-
deavors in the advancement of Zion's cause.
			Cyrena Merrill Prest.;
			Esther Merril, Secy;
			Maria McCrae, Secy. pro tem.

			PAYSON.
	Dear Sister Wells:—We thought, as a Re-
lief Society, we would show, through the col-
umns of the EXPONENT, that we are alive in
Payson. Many good faithful sisters doing all
the good they can, with our President and
Counselors, to cheer and bless the daughters of
Zion. We feel thankful to Sister Snow, your-
self, Sisters Taylor, Felt and Howard for the
refreshing visit we had from you last fall. The
good counsel and heavenly influence will be
felt by us, we hope, till you again honor us
with a visit. Many good faithful testimonies
are borne, thanking our Father in heaven for
our homes in these mountains. If the outside
world pity us for being so deluded, we pity
them in their ignorance. The EXPONENT ever
is a welcome visitor with us. Many familiar
faces have been taken from our midst by
death; seemingy we could not spare them.
Among the number was our beloved Sister
Tanner, whose obituary our President Mrs. B.
J. Simmons and Counselors Sister Agnes
Douglas and Mary Moore wished inserted in
the EXPONENT.
			SUMMIT
	Quarterly Conference of the Primary, Par-
owan Stake, held at Summit, May 7th, 1882.
President Mary Durham presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises the min-
utes of the last Conference were read and ac-
cepted.
	President Mary Durham then expressed her
gratitude to the Almighty for the great im-
provement being made by the rising gener-
ation, and felt to say with the Savior, "suffer
little children to come unto me and forbid
them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven"
she them encouraged them to come forward
with their songs and recitations, which they
promptly did.
	President Jones then gave some good in-
structions to parents, upon their duties to
their offspring, as they are the future pillars
of Zion and should be taught every principle
of morality day by day, that they may have
power to see the difference between good and
evil. He then blessed every organization per-
taining to the reign of peace and righteous-
ness upon the earth.
	As Spring has advanced so has the health of
the people of this settlement improved, and
now the apple, the peach and the plum trees
are loaded with fruits; the fields look green,
promising a bountiful harvest to the farmer,
for which we thank the Giver of all good.
Let us learn what is right and do it for the
love of righteousness. Let us send our child-
ren to school where they are taught the prin-
ciples of the Gospel that will enlighten their
minds, and enlarge their understanding, and
prepare them to stand before the enemies of
truth. Let us make our calling and election
sure by our every day walk and conversation,
that no one can bring a railing accusation
against us.
		ANN ELIZABETH WEBSTER,
				Stake Secretary P. A.
Cedar City, June 7th, 1882.
			WALLSBURG.
	Primary Conference held at Wallsburg May
26th, 1882. Prest. Glenn presiding. Singing
"Open the door for the children." Prayer, by
Master M. M. Duke. Singing, "Joseph Smith's
First Prayer." Minutes read and approved.
Verbal report given by the President.
	Programme: reading, by Sister Glenn; Bible
stories, by Polly A. Lamb and S. Workman;
recitations, Clinton C. Boren, Susie Gardner,
Janet Gardner, Ida V. Boren; dialogue, Annie
Gardner, Annie Boren and Wm. Camp; songs,
S. Workman, Maggie Camp, Abbie Lamb and
Jane Lamb; dialogue, Isabelle Kerby, M. M.
Duke and Wm. Greer. Appropriate remarks
Bishop Wm. Nuttall, George Dabling and
Prest. Glenn.
	Singing, "In the chambers of the Mount-
ains." Benediction by Annie Gardner.
	The Primary also held their first FAIR
which was a credit to the President and child-
ten. Articles on exhibition were quilts, mats,
tidies cushions, aprons, mottoes, dolls, hats,
bands, pictures in water colors, cakes, pies,
puddings etc. One little boy made a set of
quilting frames and presented them to the
President, with some verses composed for the
occasion. We also had a dancing party in
the evening. 		Sarah Glenn, Prest.
				Lucina Boren, Cor. Secy.
		GRANTSVILLE.
	The Ladies conference of Tooele Stake was
held in Grantsville, at the Meeting house
Saturday and Sunday, June 10th and 11th,
1882. Mrs. M. A. Hunter presiding. Present
on the stand from Salt Lake City, Sisters
Phebe Woodruff, Presendia L. Kimball. After
singing, prayer and singing, minutes of the
last Conference were read and accepted. Sister
Woodruff gave some very good instructions to
both old and young, she alluded to her long
experience in the Church forty-seven years;
cautioned mothers about setting a good ex-
ample, made some explanations in regard to
the Deseret Hospital, and spoke of the great
need which existed of an institution of this
kind. Mrs. M. A. House read the circular to
the congregation, which explained in detail
the condition of the affair.
	Sister P. L. Kimball spoke of the Hospital
and the desire of the Sisters of the Relief So-
ciety to do good to all those who needed assist-
ance  of the young people. The time was
mostly occupied in bearing testimony; some
good instructions were given.
	Sunday afternoon: After the administering
of the Sacrament Sisters Woodruff and Kim-
ball addressed the congregation, in a very
pleasing and intelligent manner. Prest. H. J.
Grant gave very good instructions encourag-
ing the sisters to diligence in all good works;
spoke most favorably of the Hospital, and said
he felt sure the sisters would accomplish what
they had undertaken. Prest. Grant also re-
ferred to the labors of the sisters in storing up
whear, and made other good remarks. Confer-
ence was adjourned until the 27th of August
next, at Tooele City.		ANN TATE.
			WEBER STAKE.
	Thursday, June 8, 10 a. m. Conference
opened with the usual preliminaries. After
a few opening remarks by Sister Jane S.


[Column 1]
Richards, Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith spoke
of the things of the kingdom; exhorted
the sisters to cling to the things of God and
walk in the paths marked out by the servants
of the Lord. Edifying remarks were also
made by Sister Zina D. Young and Bishop
Robt. McQuarrie, after which the conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Thursday, 2 p. m. After singing, and
prayer by Sister Zina D. Young, the meeting
was addressed by Elder Orson H. Eggleston.
	Sister Ellen McBride, of Eden, said she had
been absent for some time at St. George, where
she had the privilege of laboring in the Temple
and administering for those who had passed
away. There are a great many who stand
alone in the Church; all her father's house
were against her, still she took great delight
in worshiping in the House of the Lord.
	Sister Sarah Richards felt that they were
all on a great mission. She knew this was
the work of God, she knew it by the power of
the Spirit. She knew that all must be tried,
for the Lord has said He would have a tried
people. She advised the Saints to continue to
love each other and to be humble and faithful
to the end.
	Sister Higbee had been a member of the
Church forty years, and knew that it was the
kingdom of God. This people are preparing
the way for the second coming of Christ. She
referred to many of the teachings of the late
President Brigham Young, and advised the
sisters to reduce them to practice.
	Sister Sarah Knight made a few interesting
remarks on various subjects, and bore a strong
and fervent testimony to the truth of the work
of God.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith addressed the
conference in her usual instructive manner.
She spoke of the disasters that are taking place
in the world, and the blessings which have at-
tended this people since they have been living
in these valleys. She spoke of the establish-
ment of a hospital at Salt Lake City, and
showed the need of such an institution and
the benefits of which the Saints can avail them-
selves in cases of necessity. She also spoke of
home industry and many other useful subjects.
	Sister Zina D. Young followed. She spoke
of the duties of the Saints; cautioned them
against grumbling and fault-finding, to look
after the household duties, not to be selfish in
the things of God. She also advised the
Saints to be cheerful, trust in God, and look to
him for strength and guidance.
	After a few remarks from Bishop B. C.
Critchelow, the general and Stake authorities
of the Relief Society were presented and
unanimously sustained, and conference was
then adjourned.

YOUNG LADIES.

	Friday, 10 a. m. After singing and prayer
the Secretary read the reports, which were ac-
cepted.
	Sister Richards addressed the meeting. She
said President Herrick was absent on a visit
in the East; she had received a letter from her,
in which she spoke of the conference, and
prayed that the blessings of the Lord would
rest upon all who took part in it. Sister
Richards then reported the Second Ward.
	Reports were also given of the First and
Fourth Wards, Plain City, West Weber,
Huntsville, Hot Springs, and Riverdale.
	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, President of the
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Societies
in the Territory, then addressed the meeting.
She was much pleased to meet with them in
Conference, to hear the reports, and to see the
good spirit that was manifested by the presi-
dents of the different wards, and the deep in-
terest they evinced in the welfare of the soci-
eties which they represented; felt glad that these
associations were organized and were in so

[Column 2]
flourishing a condition. She then gave much
good instruction in relation to monthly and
other meetings, and of the proper decorum
that should be observed by the Saints, while
in the house of God.
	Mrs. Dr. Ferguson made a few excellent re-
marks; gave an interesting account of her visit
to the East.
	After a few closing remarks by Sister E. S.
Richards the meeting adjourned.
	2 p. m. Sister Minnie Snow, President of Y.
L. M. I. A., of Brigham City. We all have
superior qualities and those that we term weak-
nesses, and our daily life is a perpetual war-
fare between these; urged upon the young
ladies to fill every position to which they were
called. She said if they could be president of
an association one month they would realize
how hard it is for the officers to be always
urging and coaxing the young sisters to do
those things which they know are right and
profitable.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson expressed herself pleased
to see so large an attendance and wished to
emphasize the remarks of Sister Minnie Snow
in reference to a prompt and faithful fulfill-
ment of those duties assigned to them. She
spoke of the Deseret Hospital in Salt Lake
City, gave an account of the organization and
read the circular which is now ready for dis-
tribution in the different Stakes of Zion.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke also on the im-
provement of time and recommended the Hos-
pital to their faith and prayers and works.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke very earnestly
to the young ladies upon cultivation of the
beautiful in every thing, but hoped they would
not imitate the grosser fashions of the world.
She referred to their influence upon their
associates, the young men in particular with
whom they could do far more in persuading
them to do right than even their fathers and
mothers and the Elders of Israel. She gave
some very valuable hints about health and the
proper care of our bodies. In the Hospital
young ladies would have an opportunity, if they
wished, of learning to become good nurses and
thus prevent much sickness.
	Sister E. R. Snow Smith was particularly
pleased to see some young sisters, Presidents
of the Y. L. M. I. A., rise in the morning to
give their reports with babes in their arms.
She did not feel it right that the young sisters,
when married and raising a family, should ex-
cuse themselves from all other social duties.
The care of the children is a mother's first
duty, but it is not all her duty, and no one
needs the spiritual sustenance and strength im-
parted by these meetings more than young
mothers. She exhorted the sisters to attend to
Sister Ferguson's instructions and suggestions
about speaking and reading; would also urge
upon them to learn to spell correctly. Good
spelling was one of the most important requis-
itions in education; without it good reading
or writing was impossible.
	Sisters D. H. Perry, and Elder W. R. R.
Stowell made some remarks.
	Sister Josephine West gave notice of the
Primary Conference. Sister E. S. Richards
made a few remarks, and adjourned the Con-
ference for three months.
	Singing, "Lord dismiss us," etc. Benediction
by Sister. E. B. Ferguson.


24 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1[
	A MEDICAL college for women has recently
been established in Baltimore Md.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.

[Column 2]
AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAL AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROATS AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 11. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1882.			No. 4.


ALL HAIL TO THE DAY.
	SONG FOR THE CELEBRATION OF THE FOURTH
		OE JULY, 1881, IN SALT LAKE CO. WHICH ON
		ACCOUNT OF THE ASSASSINATION OF PREST.
		GARFIELD DID NOT TAKE PLACE.
	All hall to the day when the Standard of Freedom,
		Bright Phoeix arose o'er proud Tyranny's grave:
	Loud cheers for the vet'rans whose hearts swelled with
			courage
		Ere th' conquest was won by the sword of the brave.
	All hail to our sacred, diving Constitution--
		That heav'n-inspired gift, stamp'd with virtue's life-
			lease;
	We crown with rich gems of true, loyal devotion,
		That bulwark of Justice--that trophy of Peace.
	Those statesmen knew not that Jehovah was guiding
		Their thoughts and their moves, in those soul-trying
			hours,
	When their names they aflix'd to the bold Declaration
		of national Rights and all national Pow'rs.
					Chorus.
	With Washington--know as the Sire of his country--
		In th' annals of honor, their names are enroll'd:
	Their mem'ries are dear to all lovers of freedom--
		Enshrined in true hearts with the sages of old.
						Chorus.
	Should traitors presume, with oppression's foul daring
		From th' dear Constitution, to sever one thread:
	The vengeance of God, shorn of m[x]rey's forbearing,
		Will follow with blight the perfidions tread.
						Chorus.
	The banner that waves o'er the mountains of Ephraim,
		Endow'd with insignia our fore-fathers won:
	We'll honor, preserve, and unsullied bequeath it,
		To bless generations while time shall roll on.
	All hail to our sacred diving Constitution;
		That heav'n-inspired gift, stamped with virtue's life-
			lease:
	We crown with rich gems of true loyal devotion,
		That bulwark of Justice--that trophy of Peace.
								E. R. S. S.


(Column 1)
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN
   MARY ISABELLA HORNE
		  Continued. 
Any one who reads this sketch of  Mrs.
Horne's life may readily perceive that she has
had many difficulties to encounter, and her
path has not been a smooth one. She is pos-
sessed of indomitable energy of character,
which is exceedingly well balanced by her
excellent judgment, making her an efficient
leader and wise counselor among her sex. Her
own example is consistant with her teachings,
which gives her great influence among the
people. She is motherly and affectionate with-
out making a display of it, and conseguently
attracts and pleases those with whom she is
associated. She has the gift of faith in the
healing of the sick, and, to a great degree, in
her own family. In the Spring of 1845 her
babe, Richard, was taken very sick and re-
duced so low that all the family, except her-
self, gave up all hopes of his recovery. Mrs.
Horne sat watching and praying for him, when 
the spirit impressed her to write her prayers
The influence was so strong it seemed irre-
sistible, and she followed the dictates of the
Holy Spirit, receiving an assurance that the
		[column 2]
child would speedily recover. The prayer was
written in poetry, just as the words came to
her, and she has kept it carefully ever since.
There are six verses of four lines. It is an
earnest appeal to the throne of grace, a dedica-
tion of the little one to the Lord, and a testi-
mony that the prayer was heard and would be
answered by the healing of the babe (-) including
the blessings asked which were sealed upon
him.
	Shortly after this manifestation of power
other members of the household were taken
severely ill, but by faith in the Lord and the
power of his priesthood, her children were re-
stored to health, but a relative of her husband's
died. She had a trying time and scenes that
were hard for mortality to endure; but by
patience, meekness and a firm reliance upon
her  heavenly Father she was able to pass
through it all.
	In January 1846 Mrs. Horne went into
the Nauvoo Temple to recieve the ordinances
of the House of the Lord. In this she rejoiced
greatly, and felt blessed in the privilege. She
spent two weeks there in assisting in the work
of administering in the ordinances for others,
and was filled with joy to be able to act in this
capacity for her sisters; realizing the blessing
of the Lord upon the work daily and hourly;
officiating in sacred ordinances as did holy
women of old, in ancient Temples. In the
following month, February, Mrs. Horne's hus-
band, with many of the Saints, began making
hurried preparations to leave the city of Nau-
voo; he closed his business and provided teams
and such necessaries as could be h(--)tily pro-
cured. Mrs. Horne had two child(---) sick at
the time and was herself in delicate health--
many of her friends thought it preposterous
for her to undertake such a journey in the
dead of winter, but her faith and courage
were equal to the emergency, and with her
husband and little ones she bade again adieu
to the home to which she had become endeared,
and crossed the Mississippi river, in cold and
snow and camped with the Saints already
gathered there on Sugar Creek in Iowa. There 
on account of unavoidable circumstances Mr.
and Mrs. Horne and others remained six weeks.
The weather was very cold, and the sickness
and hardship to anyone, except a Saint of God,
would have heen almost unendurable. In the
latter part of March they lift Sugar Creek to
jonrney westward towards the rocky Moun-
tains. The storms were fearful, the roads al-
most impassable. No one unless having had a
similar experience would possibly realize the
trials, hardships and privations of that terrible
journey. At Garden Grove, a stopping place
made by the first company of Saints going
west, Mrs. Horne and family stayed about
three weeks, and about the middle of May re-
sumed the toilsome journey. At Mt. Pisgah,
another resting place, some distance further
on, Mrs. Horne remained a short time and a
daughter was born to her there in a wagon.
There were few comforts and no delicacies, and
yet the sisters endured these ordeals of suffer-
ing without a murmur. There was no bitter-
ness towards their enemies, those who had com-
pelled them to leave their homes, no repinings
at the dispensations of Providence, but all
was love and peace and good will. The
daughter was called Elizabeth Ann, and when
the babe was three days old, Mrs. Horne started
again on her way towards the Missouri river
arriving at Council Bluffs about the last of
		[column 3]
June. Here was built what we term Winter
Quarters, now called Florence. In that place
in a log cabin Mrs. Horne took up her abode
with her little ones around her. The Saints in
common had many severe experiences, while
in Winter Quarters, and Mrs. Horne was not
exempt from her share. The water of the
Missouri was very unhealthy, the people were
poor, and sickness set in, and the graveyards of
the Saints testify to the terrible afflictions to
which many hundreds succumbed. Mrs.
Horne’s family, as well as many others, were
afflicted with scurvy, in consequence of not
being able to procure suitable food, having
been almost entirely deprived of vegetables.
Mrs. Horne was brought very low and it was
thought could not recover; she had faith in the
priesthood and desired to live. Elder Orsen
Pratt, one of the Apostles, administered to her
and promised her that she should recover and
prophesied she should live to do a good work
in Isreal. She was better almost immediately 
and in June of the same year left with the 
first company across the plains that followed
the pioneers to the valley of Salt Lake. That
was indeed a remarkable journey, and all 
those who traveled hither at that time deserve
the honored title of pioneers; they were the
ones who opened the way and braved the perils
of the desert and the experiences of actually
living in this sterile land. They ploughed and
planted and fought against the fearful odds of
crickets, grasshoppers and droth. The company
in which Mrs. Horne traveled arrived here on
the 6th of October 1847, and as soon as the Fort
was completed she moved into it and lived
there in a log cabin the next two years, endur-
ing all the exigencies incident to the settling of 
a new Indian country; among which were liv-
ing on short rations, a part of which consisted
of roots and thistles. On the 16th of January
1849, another daughter was added to the Horne
family and the mother called her Leonora
Taylor, in honor of her dear friend and associ-
ate, the first wife of Prest. John Taylor.
				To be Continued


Take your stand by the altar of truth, and
be not led or driven thence by sophistry or ridi-
cule.
	The roses of pleasure seldom last long
euough to adorn the brow of him who plucks
them, for they are the only roses which do not
retain their sweetness after they have lost their
beauty.
	MISS Anthony: "Give the ballot to women
and I will warrant you that we will
crush the life out of the monster intemperance.
There seems to be a great change coming
over the destiny of women. An immense
wave is lifting her up all over the world, and
we find in almost every country a new demand
for education, for domestic freedom and for
civil and political rights, made by women in
behalf of their sex. Women have passed
through the savage age where they were merely
beasts of burden for their masters; they have
passed through the heroic age where they were
not only free, but specially honored, and of
which Tacitus wrote that the Germans thought
that thousands of women were nearer to the
Deity than men, and therefore they were
always consulted with respect, but women
will yet reach a higher glory in this, the intel-
lectual age."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MER WHITNEY.

	The next important event, which I remem-
ber in our  family, was the birth of my brother
Charles S. which happened Jan. 2d, 1843.  I 
confess that I was a disappointed and most un-
grateful girl when hearing the news, as I had
so long desired a little sister; and my feelings
were so soured, that I said some harsh and un-
becomings things, and was determined not to
welcome the little stranger.  I tried to steel
my heart against him, but in spite of me the
love would come.  My mother being in a 
feeble state of health I had to take almost the 
whole care of him during the first year of two.
He was very delicate and had some severe
spells of sickness, and my love and tender
care increased with the days and months and 
I never wearied of my charge.  When about
two years old he became strong, healthy and 
the pride of my heart.  The pleasure I felt
in dressing and taking him out with me was
quite equal to all that I had ever anticipated
in a little sister, and even my affection for him
surpassed any that I had ever felt for a baby.
	Though I have not the date I remember the
birth of another son by my father's wife Sarah
which happened not far from the time that my
mother's was born.  I had no knowledge then
of the plural order, and therefore remained
ignorant of our relationship to each other un-
til after his death, as he only lived a few
months.  It's true I had noticed the great
interest by my parents in behalf of 
Sister Noon, but knowing their kind benevolent
natures towards every body that came under
their notice, I thought nothing strange of this;
but I will confess that, during those times, I
thought my mother overly kind to always take
her to her buggy and crowding me out of 
what I considered, my place by her side; and 
I sometimes felt to complain, but unless I was
willing to sit behind on a lower seat, I was
welcome to walk or remain at home; but, not
caring to do either, I generally submitted,  as 
gracefully as possible. to ride behind.
	My mother was possessed of a most kind and 
unselfish nature, and her life was filled up
with just such noble, self-sacrificing deeds; and 
by them she won the love of all; and among
 the most devoted were my father's faithful
wives, who admired him more because they
knew he loved her best; and with him they
mourned for her as their dearest and most
enduring friends.
	He was often heard to say that he did not
care how soon he followed her, and he lived
but nine months to mourn her loss.
	The following extracts from letters written
by my father while upon his mission with
Brigham Young and others in the southern
part of Illinois I copy, with the hope that some
benefit may be derived from the persual of 
them, more particularly the young and inex-
perienced.  They show the childlike humility
and sincerity of heart, such as none but an 
honest man, could feel and express, and none
other would ever take the step that he did,
nor continue to endure such heart-aching sor-
row, as I know he did, for the wife of his
youth, who with him in that early day yielded
obedience to a principle that required life-long
sacrifice and self-denial.  Their all was laid
upon the altar, to gain that glory which the
Lord had given my mother a slight glimpse of,
in answer to her humble heart-broken prayer.
"Where there's no cross there's no crown."
	I think that no honest heart can read the 
outpourings of his soul and ever doubt the
motive that prompted him to take upon him-
self burthens and responsibilities, such as him-
self and brethren were called to do, in marrying
a plurality of wives, for it did not add to their
domestic happiness in this life, but brought
not only anxiety, care and sorrow but placed
their lives in jeopardy, and they did not know
but the consequences would be imprisonment
and death; but they knew that it was a com-
mand from the Almighty and they obeyed God
rather than men.
	This letter bears the date of Oct. 23rd, 1842.
	"My dear Vilate: I am at Brother Evan
Greene's.  We have held all of our confer-
ences, have had two meetings to day being the
Sabbath.  Some have been aided to the 
church and prejudice is considerably  laid.
Monday we shall go to Jacksonville, then on
to Springfield.  I shall be home in two or
three weeks if the Lord wills it so.  Since I
left you it has been a time of much reflection.
I feel as though I was a poor, weak creature
in and of myself. and only on God can I rely
for support * * I have been looking back
over my past life before I heard the Everlast-
ing Gospel.  It makes me shrink into nothing
and to wish that I had always been a righteous
man from my youth, but we have an advocate
with the Father, and I can look back since I 
came into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints with a degree of pleasure; but I 
can see if I had more knowledge I could have
done better in many points. * * I feel as
though I had rather die to-day than be left to
transgress one of his laws, or to bring a dis-
grace upon the righteous cause which I have
embraced, or a stain upon my character; and
my prayer is day by day that God would take
me to himself rather than I should be left to
sin against Him, or betray my dear brethren
who have been true to md and to God the
Eternal Father; and I feel to pray to thee, oh
Lord to help thy poor servant to be true to
 thee all the days of my life, that I may never
be left to sin against thee of against thine an-
ointed or any that love thee, that I may have
wisdom and knowledge how to gain thy favor
at all times, for this is my desire, and that
these blessings may rest upon my dear com-
panion, and when we have done our work on 
this thy foo [---]ol that thou wouldst receive us
into that kingdom where Abraham, Isaac and 
Jacob and all the holy prophets have gone,
that we may never be separated any more, and 
before I should be left to betray my brethren
in any case, let thy servant come unto thee in
thy kingdom and there have the love of my
youth, and the little ones that thou hast given
me. * * Now my dear Vilante stand by me
 even unto death, and when you pray, pray that
I may hold out to the end. * * My heart
aches for you and some times I can hardly
speak without weeping and that before my
brethren; for I have a brokem heart and my
head is a fountain of tears.  My life in this
world is short at the longest and I do not de-
sire to live one day only to do good and to
make you happy and bring up our little
children in the ways of the Lord, and my
prayer is that they may be righteous from the 
least to the greatest. * * The world has 
lost its charms for me, and I want to seek for
that rest which remains for the people of God.
I never had a greater desire to be a man of 
God than at the present, that I may know my 
acceptance with Him."
	His next letter was written from Spring-
field Oct. 25th.
	"My dear companion: I have just returned
from the office where I found a letter from you,
and I need not tell you that it was a sweet
morsal to me.  I could weep like a child if I
could get away by myself, to think that I for
one moment have been the means of causing
you any sorrow; I know that you must have
many bad feelings and I feel to pray for you
all the time, I assure you that you must have not
been out of my mind many minutes at a time,
since I left you.  My feelings are of that kind
that it makes me sick at heart, so that I have
no appetite to eat. My temptations are so 
severe it seems sometimes as though I should
have to ley down and die, I feel as if I must 
sink beneath it. I go into the woods every
chance I have, and pur out my soul before
God that he would deliver me and bless you
my dear wife, and the first I would know I
would be in tears weeping like a child about
you and the situation that I am in; but what
can I do but go ahead?  my dear Vilate do
not let it cast you down for the Lord is on
our side; this I know from what I see and rea-
lize and I marvel at it many times.  You are
tried and tempted and I am sorry for you, for
I know how to pity you.  I can say that I
never suffered more in all my life than since
these things come to pass;  and as I have said,
so say I again, I have felt as if I should sink
and die.  Oh my God! I ask thee in the name 
of Jesus to bless my dear Vilate and comfort
her hert and deliver her from temptation,
and from all sorrow and open her eyes and let
her see tings as they are, for Father thou
knowest our sorrow; be pleased to look upon
thy poor servant and handmaid and grant us
the privilege of living the same length of time
that one may not go before the other, for thou
knowest that we desire this with all our hearts
* * and then Father, when we have  done
to grieve thee be pleased to blot it out, and let
us be clean and pure before thee at all times,
that we may never be left to sin or betray
any one that believes on thy name; save us
from all this and let our seed be righteous; in-
cline their hearts to be pure and virtuous, and
may this extend from generation to generation,
let us have favor in thy sight and before thine
angels that we may be watched over by them
and have strength and grace to support us in 
the day of our temptation that we may not be
overcome and fall.  Now my Father these are
the desires of our hearts and will thou grant
them to us for Jesus sake and to thy name
will we give all the glory forever and for-
ever--, amen."  
			To be Continued.


WHAT SOME WOMEN ARE DOING.

	Mrs. Mary E. Haggart was the orator at
the Fourth of July celebration at Miami, Ind.

	A meeting of women ministers will be held
in Boston on some day of the coming anniver-
sary week.

	Mrs. C. M. Raymond (ANNIE LOUISE CARY)
has given two hundred and fifty dollars to es-
tablish a free bed in the Maine General Hos-
pital.

	Miss Helen Gladstone, daughter of the
Premier, has accepted the vice principalship of
Newnham College, in place of Mrs. Henry
Sedgwick, who will resign in October.

	Twenty-five women physicians who took part
in the military operations of Russia in 1877,
have been decorated by the emperor with the
order of St. Stanislas of the third class.

	In 1880, eighteen young women were gradu-
ated from a school of technology in Boston.
Of these, eight found at once steady employ-
ment as designers in print factories; one in
pottery works; two in an oil-cloth manufactury
and one in a carpet mill.


Light is the first of painters.
	Do not be too lavish in your praise of var-
ious members of your own family when speak-
ing to strangers; the person to whom you are
speaking may know some faults that you do 
not.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT. 27


A DREAM AND AWAKENING.

I toiled 'till my weary fingers
	Groped over the long dark scam
Then dropped into fitful slumber,
	Of wild and feverish dream;
Where perplexities without number,
	Crossed ever my path between.

Just at the hour of midnight,
	At the last echoing chime
Of the church clock in the tower,
	I 'woke to bewail lost time,—
Time never restored hereafter,
	Though sought for with tears sublime.

Yet strove to resume my labor,
	To finish the task begun
That conscience might give the verdict
	Of 'well and faithfully done:
Most priceless reward of merit
	By tolling mortals won.

Then came through my curtained window
	Showers of silvery spray,
And all common things around me
	Rolled back with the dying day:
Leaving a halo of glory
	That gladdened my heart for aye.

The moonbeams flooded my chamber
	With glowing marvelous light;
While the rainbow hues of brightness
	Grew more dazzling to the sight,
A power unseen impelled me
	To take up my pen and write.

Sweet Love, the blessed Evangel
	Waved high her banner of gold;
'Till from brain and heart o'er burdened
	A torrent of feeling rolled.
Like pent up stream from the mountain
	No longer to be controlled.

And over a fair pure surface
	Swift arrows of thought sped on
Thro' the inky tide of blackness,
	'Till the golden light was gone,
And night had travailed with darkness
	Giving birth to coming dawn.
ATCHINSON, KAN.		L. M. HEWINGS.


[Column 1]

A TRIBUTE OF THE HEART.

	My mind has been much drawn out lately,
when dwelling upon the divine will and pur-
poses of God in creating his children and deal-
ing with them while here upon the earth, and
who are, as it were, transplanted, nurtured and
nurture in return; to grow and develop day by
day, and year after year, not only physically
but spiritually, with understanding of both
the means and privileges to the nourishing and
strengthening temporally and spiritually
and reflecting our sense and appreciation of
both, in our inner and outward lives, granted
and bequeathed to us by an allwise and benev-
olent Father, the giver of all good, light and
knowledge, from whom emanates every gift
and dispensation. Should we then be unmind-
ful of these great and beneficent blessings be-
stowed upon the human family, by such pro-
fuse and skillful hands, the Creator of us all?
I answer no, but rather let us, by the careful
tending, teaching and training of the same,
show that we, to a degree, are sensible of his
almighty goodness and loving kindness, in
granting us, through our parents in the garden
of Eden, an opportunity of working out our
salvation upon this planet, through the redemp-
tion of our Lord and Savior, who suffered and
endured so much for fallen humanity. Oh! let
us learn wisdom and exercise a little, if only
in our own behalf, to let our heavenly Father
know by our acts that we acknowledge his
goodness and mercy; let us not neglect to study
the laws of nature and the inspired will of
heaven, and to try to work out our course ac-
cordingly, and not be careless and abuse the
earthly tabernacles which are given us, in the
likeness of our Maker, wherein we may culti-
vate the same spirit which pervades the bosom
of our Father in heaven. Treasure your
bodies as you do your lives, for can you even

[Column 2]

enjoy transient life in an ill used and worn out
structure, ever needing repair and constantly
fearing and trembling lest it fall and we unpre-
pared? I believe the spirit of God is grieved
when we foolishly and unnecessarily expose,
and pay so little heed and respect to our
physical frame, seemingly ungrateful to the
great architect of our souls, who has so wisely
and uniformly fashioned every part and portion,
causing it to work with such perfect harmony,
and which taken care of will last a century, in
this degenerate day of the world. I say then
let us take care of our mortal bodies, be mind-
ful of the Giver, and preserve and nourish
them in health and strength that the spirit of
the Lord may dwell in them, untramelled with
sickness and disease; prepare yourselves to live
and do the will of God upon the earth, that
you may go forth doing much good in redeem-
ing mankind, and be living monuments to his
name, a name given whereby he may be known
among men. I appeal to the young who are
more inclined to be thoughtless and who have
not, neither are expected to have, the experi-
ence of those of more mature age; heed the
counsel and advice of your parents and teach-
ers in the Lord, for increased wisdom is given
them for you to profit by. Do not think you
are too old to learn, for that is a mistaken idea.
I heeded my mother's advice to avoid taking
cold and getting wet feet, for cold, she would
say, is the root of all diseases; the consequence
is I have a healthy tabernacle, wherein dwells,
I trust, a portion of God's holy spirit, to com-
fort, console and bless me under trials of var-
ious kinds, and which I have passed somewhat
corageously through, with the comforting
thought that they might have been worse,
and I was thankful they were not. The
Lord will have a tried people and where we
can we will be tried, so we must round up our
shoulders and prepare ourselves, for we know
not, in the wise providence of God, what we
will be called to pass through. Let us so order
our lives that we may kiss the rod, for whom
the Lord loveth he chasteneth. I am thankful
I can acknowledge his hand in all things, and
confidently say "thy will, O Lord, be done,"
also that I can discern the signs of the times.
	May we live so we can enjoy his spirit. The
predictions of ancient and modern prophets are
literally being fulfilled, surely we live in the
latter days. Let us gratefully acknowledge
the blessed privileges by which we are sur-
rounded in these beautiful vales, where we can
see and hear the inspired servants of God, and
if we should not be equally favored with nice
homes and as abundant means as some of our
neighbors, may we keep in view the mark of
our high and holy calling in Christ Jesus, and
not let envy creep into our bosoms and dis-
quiet us; but feel glad that they are so favored,
and hope they may be equally spiritually
blessed, to increase the good spirit which they
already possess. I enjoy the companionship of
such and award them every good wish and feel-
ing of my heart; friends indeed, of the same
faith trying to live their religion and actuated
by the same spirit. I can afford, and love to
feast upon the appreciation of such noble and
generous hearts, ever disposed to good deeds.
Hope has been my anchor in this life, and has
safely guided me through many a rough surf,
and may I never lose sight of the bark which
has so far steered me through unknown parts.
I pray earnestly for the spirit of God and ask-
ing comes not amiss, particularly in faith, hav-
ing confidence in my Lord and Master. To
the young readers of our valuable EXPONENT
I would say, put your trust in God, the maker
and giver of life present and to come, lose not
an opportunity of attending your Improve-
ment Associations, you can not afford it. You
who are desirous and should be anxious to
gain knowledge and intelligence, which is the
glory of God and by which you will be exalt-

[Column 3]

ed; there you can learn habits of good order
and rule, laws of health, laws of God and of
government, of yourselves, of nations and of
kingdoms, not only of this life but of a life
to come, bodily, spiritually and politi-
cally. Of such is the hope of Israel and may
it be answered upon the rising generation of
Zion, is my prayer.		M. A. T.
	Provo, June 18th, 1882.


A WORD FROM UTAH STAKE.

	The officers of the Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A.
of Utah Stake have just returned from a visit
to the southern settlements, which was made in
the interest of the organizations they represent.
	Springville Associations were found in a
flourishing condition. The presidency are do-
ing all in their power to make them successful.
The equal attendance of boys and girls was
quite an unusual feature, as there is generally
a greater number of girls. Active operations
for the coming Fair have already begun.
	The Associations of Spanish Fork are all do-
ing well, and the officers seem deeply inter-
ested in those under their charge. The Presi-
dent, Sister McLean, being absent attending to
her duties in the Deseret Hospital in Salt Lake
City, Primary Associations there were ably
managed by the two Counselors, although her
absence was a matter of regret.
	In Salem, the P. A. having suspended meet-
ing on account of the President moving away,
we reorganized the same, feeling sure those
chosen would carry on the work assigned them
in an able and satisfactory manner,
	There are four P. A. organizations in Pay-
son, the Presidents of which preside alternate-
ly at their public meetings.
	We found several new and interesting fea-
tures among the Payson Associations, namely:
They meet together jointly once a month. On
Fast days, verbal or written reports are sent
from each district, stating the condition of
their meetings; day schools are suspended to
enable the children to attend Fast meetings.
Under the able management of Bro. Stark, a
martial band, composed of Primary boys, has
been formed, who, at the close of the meeting,
played several tunes in a very creditable man-
ner, which delighted the children and was a
source of satisfaction to all.
	After the meetings in Payson, the President
proceeded to Benjamin, where a society was
organized, as no organization had previously
been made.
	In Santaquin the Primary and Y. L. M. I.
Associations meet together and were both in
prosperous condition. The programmes for
their general meetings attracted our special
attention.
	Arriving at Goshen, we were met by the
children in holiday attire, carrying a banner;
they surrounded our conveyance and sang a
sweet song; after which we repaired to the
schoolhouse, having a most interesting time.
The progress of the organizations has been
very marked.
	The Bishops and people generally showed a
great interest in the associations, and seemed
to be doing whatever they could in their be-
half.
	The Bishops sustained us in our labors and
remarks, and conveyed us from one settlement
to the other. All the meetings held were
largely attended by young and old; and the
Spirit of God attended us in our labors.
	A sociable was gotten up by the sisters in
Springville and Goshen, where the company
expressed their feelings, recited or sang for the
amusement of those present.
	We feel to thank God that the children are
having a chance to become more spiritual
minded through the meetings of these associa-
tions.			ZINA Y. WILLIAMS, Prest.
				SARAH E. CLUFF, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELNE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	JULY 15, 1882.


THE WAR IN EGYPT
One cannot but deplore the terrible war in the
East, which has already destroyed be many
thousands of human lives and desolated so
many hearts and homes; and all for power,
greatness and worldly ambition. It will perhaps
involve many nations, as it already has several
of the greatest powers in the land even in its
commencement. The beautiful city of Alexan-
dria, one of the oldest in the world, has been
the scene of blood and carnage, the conse-
quencess of a national difficulty, and even the
bombardment, the pouring of shot and shell and
the dreadful ravages created thereby was not
all—the city lies in ashes.
	It is said by those who believe in war, the end
justifies the means, but this is philosophy to
ease the conscience. Self-preservation is justif-
iable certainly, but the protection of property
and of rights for aggrandizement, another.
England said the Egyptians must go, but they
would not go without first trying what fighting
would do towards maintaining their position.
that is natural, and especially among those par-
tially enlightened nations. They love their
country, and they are determined to fight for it.
The British Empire has become a great one,
and with her ships, her men-of-war, ironclads, she
is determined to show Egypt and the Arabs her
power. There are a number of intricate questions
 involved, but money is at the foundation,
and unless the Lord wills it otherwise, England
will, without doubt, conquer or at least subdue
those foreign elements. It may be that this
war is the beginning of that prophesied of, that
is to involve all nations in the struggle. At any
rate the outlook at the present time is not a
pleasant one to contemplate, and when half-civ-
ilized nations will go to ward, one cannot but an-
ticipate the worst results of wholesale death and
destruction that could possibly follow.
	Various speculations are rife concerning the
coming of some great teacher or "Messiah," as
the Mussulmen term it. It is said by some
writers that the whole Mussulman world is agi-
tated with this matter and the predictions.
Some riots have already occurred among the
pilgrims on account of these great expectations,
and it is the belief of those best acquainted with
facts in relation to this feeling that a volcano of
human passion is rapidly nearing a state of
active eruption; this will, if true, prove of even
greater consequence than the war now in pro-
gress.
	As Latter-day Saints, we know these things
must be ere the great winding up scene that
will take place, when all the kingdoms of this
world become the kingdoms of Christ and He
whose right it is shall reign.


LIBERTY PARK ON JULY FOURTH.

	The Fourth of July was very appropriately
celebrated in Liberty Park, just south of this
city. The Park is a very suitable place for public


festivities, but will no doubt have more improve
ments made upon it from time to time, as the
city fathers shall deem wise and expedient.
His Excellency Eli H. Murray, Governor of
Utah, was President of the day. The orator of
the occasion was Judge P. T. Van Zile. His
oration was well written, comprehensive and
poetical. Responses to toasts were made by
the following gentlemen, Mayor Jennings pro-
posed the toast, "The President of the United
States." responded to by S. J. Jonasson. "The
Union, No North, No South, No East, No West
but one, inseparable now and forever," was res-
ponded to by Arthur Stayner. "The Constitu-
tion" by J. L. Rawlins. "Our Heroes Dead and
Living by Gen. McD. McCook. "Utah," by
O. J, Hollister. "The Press," by R. W. Sloan.
"The Industrial Arts.," by G. G. Bywater.
"Education: The Foster-mother of a Virtuous
Commonwealth," by J. M. Benedict. These
responses were, all of them, interesting and to
the point; if we had space we would gladly re-
publish them. The music was excellent and
the affair passed off most agreeably to all parties.
The fireworks during the evening, on the pub-
lic grounds, were undoubtedly the finest yet, in
Salt Lake City.


WOMEN DOCTORS.

	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who returned from New
York early in the month of June, has opened
an office next to Dr. Benedict's, on Main Street
in Godbe, Pitts and Co's Building. While in
the East recently she studied under some of the
most renowned specialists in the eye and ear
nose, and throat. She has also made obstetrics
and diseases of women a special study. Dr.
Pratt's office is well fitted up with all needful
appliances for her profession, and she has the
newest and best inventions of instruments neces-
sary for the delicate surgical operations in her
class of work upon the eye and ear, as also the
needful articles for practical work. Mrs. Pratt
graduated from the Woman's Medical College
in Philadelphia more than five years ago, and
commenced practice in this city shortly after,
having become widely and favorably known
among physicians and among the people. Dr.
Pratt is connected with the Deseret Hospital.
	Dr. E. S. Barney is another woman physician
who has more recently attained the title of M.
D. and is now prepared to practice. With about
half a dozen ladies who have graduated with
honors, in the medical profession, and others
now in some of the best colleges and universities
in the United States. Utah may certainly make
a fair showing of women doctors. We would
hail with gladness a time when more attention
would be paid by young women to the studies
of physiology and anatomy, for their own im-
provement and the benefit of the next gener-
ation. Let us by all means have more lectures
on these topics, and use an influence to have
them well attended, that the daughters of Zion
may become acquainted with their own organ-
ism and the laws of life and health, that a
foundation may be laid for the prolongation of
human life and much pain and suffering be
avoided, through intelligent knowledge on these
subjects.


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	BROTHER Graves informs us that Miss Ca-
milla Schoenfeldt is going to Provo to teach silk
reeling to a class of young women.
	REORGANIZATION of Silk Association, Utah
Stake. Hester A. Beebe, President; Zina Y.
Williams and Lucy W. Kimball, Counselors; C.
Daniels, Secretary; Daniel Graves, Traveling
Agent.

[Column 2]

	IT is expected now that the five commission-
ers for Utah will be here some time in August.
What course will be pursued to enforce the Ed-
munds law is still a mystery. That those who
have anticipated such great results to follow its
enactment are already disappointed is apparent.
It is just possible that their disappointment has
only begun. The Lord will take care of His
people and overrule all things for the promotion
of His work, which is sure to grow and increase
and spread abroad in the land.
	WE had a very brief but pleasant call from F.
S. Richards, Esq., one of the delegates to Con-
gress from the recent Convention held in Salt
Lake City. He is feeling well, and reports that
he has been able to do quite as much in the in-
terest of Utah as he could have expected under
the circumstances. The Constitution has been
referred to a committee, and will come up in its
time. Meanwhile Congress will adjourn, and
there will be time for much thought and reflec-
tion upon the matter. The Constitution pre-
pared is before the public, and the affairs of Utah
and its people are up for discussion, and much is
being said and written; and tourists and travel-
ers are visiting this beautiful oasis in the desert,
and perhaps when Congress does act in the
premises, it will be done more understandingly
than it would have been earlier.
	THE dedication of the Deseret Hospital will
take place on Monday, July 17th, under the di-
rection of the First Presidency of the Church of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Patients are being brought in, and the
actual work of the institution is in progress.
The dispensary is well fitted up with the neces-
sary medicines, drugs and material for the work
which is expected in the establishment. We
hope the people will take a liberal view of this
benevolent enterprise and contribute the neces-
sary means from time to time. It is not a spec-
ulation but a labor of love, and will require
great energy and perseverance on the part of
those engaged in its management, either in the
domestic or medical departments, in order to
render it permanently successful; and it cannot
be done by faith alone, but by substantial
means and the blessing of God upon such ef-
forts as are put forth in the right direction.
	EXPLANATION.—The two last paragraphs in
the article headed "Comments. By One who
Knows," were not from President B. Young's
discourse, but from Heber C. Kimball's. The
following explanation was written, but was
overlooked and left out of the copy by the
writer: "These discourses were delivered about
the time of the 'BUCHANAN WAR.' Their defeat,
as is well known, was accomplished through the
cunning and strategies of our little army, who
acted under the command of General D. H.
Wells and the wise counsel of 'Our fathers in
Israel.' The feeling to exult, which was in-
dulged in by the boys, was not unnatural, but
was unwise, and they were reproved and ad-
monished to repent, for, as President Young
often told them, many of them were 'more
willing to fight for their religion than they were
to live it.'" President Kimball said, "I do not
feel vain," etc.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died at her residence in this city, "The White
House on the Hill" at 9 p. m. June 27th, Mrs.
Mary Ann Young widow of the late President
Brigham Young, at the advanced age of 79
years. Mrs. Young had been in ill health for
some years past, but was not considered danger-
ously ill until within a few weeks previous to
her death. Deceased was the daughter of
James W. and Phebe Morton Angell and was


[Column 1]
born in Ontario Co. New York, June 8th, 1803.
She heard and believed the Gospel in Providence,
Rhode Island in 1831, but was baptized in Avon
New York in 1832 by Elder John P. Greene.
Shortly after Miss Angell gathered with the
Saints to Kirtland, Ohio, where she was mar-
ried to Brigham Young, early in the year 1834,
Sidney Rigdon officiating in the ceremony.
Mrs. Young was the mother of six children
three of them had passed away previous to her
demise. Her eldest son Brigham is one of the
quorum of Twelve and John W., Counselor to
the Apostles. She has one daughter living,
wife of George W. Thatcher Esq. of Logan
and the mother of a large family. She leaves
many grandchildren and several great grand-
children and hosts of loving and tender friends
to mourn the loss of her society here on earth.
	Mrs. Young was one of the kindest and most
benevolent of women, always in sympathy with
the needy, the sorrowing and the unfortunate.
None were turned empty away who appealed to
her for relief or comfort. She was a natural
nurse and had she studied the science of medi-
cine would have excelled in the profeesion. Her
intuitions were keen in this dirrection and so
practical was she in her suggestions and methods
of treatment that the results often surpassed
the skill of the doctors. She was a woman of
great faith and spiritual in her nature, a woman
of prayer and conversant with the Holy Scrip-
tures. Humble and unassuming in character,
one whom no change in circumstances or fortune
could ever alter in her demeanor, towards her
friends or neighbors. True in friendship, firm
and unfaltering in her integrity to the Gospel,
she has endured unto the end, has fought the
good fight, gained the victory over death, and
gone to join her husband and dear one[-], to await
the first resurrection. Her trials and sufferings
here were severe but she bore all with meekness
and resignation and her reward will be sure.
Her life was a labor of love, rich in good deeds
that can never die, but whose fragrance will be
ever fresh in the hearts and memories of those
who have received blessings at her hands.
									E. B. W

	Died at Alpine City July 3d, 1882, Maria
Dunsdon Carlisle, she was born at Steeple
Ashton, Wiltshire, England Sept. 8th, 1800.
Embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1847; was baptized by Br. John
Halliday. Left her home with her husband,
Thomas Dundson, and one daughter, in 1851 to
emigrate to Utah. Buried her husband at
Council Bluffs and has since buried her daught-
er in Cache valley. Soon after her arrival in
Salt Lake City she was set apart by Br. J. M.
Grant to officiate as midwife, in which occupa-
tion she labored most faithfully up to the last
years. She was a kind, affectionate friend to the
sick and needy, and was never known to weary
in doing good by day or night. She was one of
the first to join the Relief Society in Alpine and
has ever remained a staunch supporter of the
same. She has been afflicted with cancer the
past three years which has caused her great
suffering; but was always full of energy and
ambition, and never gave up until the last few
days. She has had every necessary attention
from the sisters of the Relief Society, both night
and day for some months. We do not mourn her
loss, feeling satisfied that she had spent her
time in doing good, and lived to a ripe old age,
and hope to be as well prepared to come forth in
the resurrection morning.

	Died in the First Ward, Brigham City, Jan.
25th, 1882, Anne Catherine Holst, daughter of
Frederick and Catherine Holst; aged 18 years,
9 months and 19 days.

	April 28th, 1882, Mary Ellen Valentine,

[Column 2]
daughter of August and Mary Valentine, aged
16 years, 9 months and 7 days.
	May 10th, 1882, Anie Johanna Nielson,
aged 17 years, 8 months and 22 days.
	May 18th, 1882, Mary M. Fosgreen, daughter
of Peter A. and Christina Fosgreen, aged 16
years, 2 months and 27 days. All of typhoid
fever.
	The following resolutions of respect to the
memory of our beloved sisters who have left us,
were adopted by the Y. L. of the M. I. A.
	Whereas God, in his divine wisdom, has seen
fit to call from our midst these our beloved sis-
ters, who were highly respected by us all for
their many virtues, and estimable qualities, for
their punctual attendance and faithful labors in
our society,
	Therefore: be it resolved that we as members
of the Y. L. M. I. A., do deeply mourn the loss
of our beloved sisters, and fellow laborers in
our society, and that we truly sympathize with
their parents and friends in their great bereave-
ment, and unite with them in the hope of
meeting them again at the resurection of the
just; and be it resolved that we present a copy
of these resolutions to their respective parents,
and that a copy be published in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and also be recorded in our record-
book.
					Fanny Graehl, Prest.
					Janie Loveland, Sec'y.

Like roses in full bloom they have faded, taking a
	natural view,
But their spirits will live forever, among the faithful
	and true.
They died in full hope to rise in the resurrection of the
	just,
When the trumpet sounds to awake them, we shall
	meet them again we trust.
							MARY H. MORRIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OBITUARY.

	Died in Bountiful Davis Co. Utah Feb. 1882
Sylvia P. Sessions Lyon, in the 61th year of her
age. Deceased was born July 31, 1818 in Newey
Oxford Co. Maine, and was the daughter of
David and Patty Bartlett Sessions. She em-
braced the Gospel when a young girl and gath-
ered with her father and mother to Nauvoo in
the earlier settlement of that city. She was
married May 31, 1838 to Windsor B. Lyon Esq.
a prosperous merchant in that city. Sister Lyon
was a woman of most amiable disposition and
benevolent qualities of heart, and having been
greatly blest with an abundance of this worlds
good in times past she dispensed of her bounties
to the poor and distressed, liberally and unosten-
tatiously. To the Prophet Joseph Smith she
was a special friend, in times of peril and need.
Hundreds of the poor Saints have cause to bless
her for her kindly deeds and substantial comfort
in the hour of trial and sorrow. Mrs. Lyon suf-
fered much during the last few months before
her demise with dropsy and other ailments.
She leaves an aged mother, several children
and grandchildren and many other relatives to
mourn the loss of her companionship, but to
those who die in the faith of the Gospel there is
a more glorious hope of a part in the first res-
urrection. Sister Lyon had endured much for her
religion passed through many trials and made
great sacrifices.
	She has gone to the rest that remains for the
Saints, to meet Joseph and Hyrum and her
children who died in infancy. Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord from henceforth
that they may rest from their labors, yea
saith the spirit their works do follow them.
		COM.
	At 2 o'clock, Thursday morning, June 29th,
after an illness of about three weeks, at the resi-

[Column 2]

dence of her parents in Hyde Park, Sister Eliza-
beth V. Hyde quietly breathed her last.
	Sister Hyde was the wife of Bishop William
Hyde, 5th Ward, Logan, and daughter of Suel
and Elizabeth Lamb, of Hyde Park. She was
born at Lehi, October 19th, 1855, and since her
marriage has resided in Logan. About three
weeks before her death, Sister Hyde went to
Hyde Park on a visit, where she was attacked
with inflammation of the bowels, which finally
terminated in her death.
	Sister Hyde was firm in the faith of the Gos-
pel, and zealous for the work of the Lord. She
was ever found in the path where duty called
her. For several years she was President of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of the Ward in which she re-
sided; a faithful Sabbath School teacher, and
from its organization was secretary of the 5th
Ward Relief Society.
	The funeral services were held at Hyde Park,
July 1st, at 3 pm. Apostle Moses Thatcher,
President C. O. Card and many of the residents
of the 5th Ward Logan; were present. Apostle
Thatcher delivered the funeral discourse.
	May she rest in peace and come forth in the
morning of the first resurrection, clothed with
glory, immortality and eternal life.

RESOLUTIONS,

	Of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association of the 5th Ward, Logan, June 30th,
1882:
	Inasmuch as it has pleased Almighty God to
take to Himself our dearly beloved and esteemed
President, Sister Libbie Hyde,
	Be it therefore Resolved, That while we
humbly bow in submission to the divine will of
Almighty God, we realize that we have lost a
loving President, a motherly adviser, and a firm
and faithful defender of the principles of the
Gospel.
	Resolved, That while life with us remains
that we cherish her past diligence and efforts in
teaching us the principles of the Gospel and
promoting our interest.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathies to her bereaved husband and parents in
their bereavement.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon our minutes and one presented to
her bereaved husband.
		MARY PARRY. Secretary.

	Died, in Centerville, Davis County, Utah, at
the residence of her father-in law, Charles Dun-
can, May 22nd, 1882, Harriet Maria Lucas, be-
loved wife of John Duncan; born at Daventry,
Northhamptonshire, England, February 18th,
1858; baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, June 29th, 1866; emigrated
to Utah, November 12th, 1871; married to John
Duncan, December 25, 1876. She was a member
of the Relief Society and of the Y. L. M. I.
Association, ever ready to discharge any duty
incumbant upon her. She was a kind and an
affectionate mother, and leaves a husband and
two children, with numerous friends, to mourn
her loss.
	She was beloved by old and young,
		To whom her name is dear:
	Her praise now hangs on every tongue,
		Her record it is clear.
	As stainless as the driven snow,
	The record that she left below.
		CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.


Even the women of India are becoming in-
spired with the spirit of liberty, and are mak-
ing an effort, to emancipate themselves from
the old oppressive customs. a number of
Hindoo widows are preparing a memorial to
Queen Victoria, praying for relief against
caste, excommunication or re-marriage. -Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. Y.  M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PROVO.

	Minutes of the fifteenth Quarterly Confer-
ence of the Relief Society held in Provo meet-
in house, June 2d, 1882.  Mrs. M. T. Smoot
presiding.  Counselor Mary John and many
of the leading sisters of Utah Stake present.
Prest. E. R. S. Smith, Coun. Zina D. H. Young
Presendia L. Kimball and Helen Mar Whitney
form Salt Lake City.  After the exercises of
singing and prayer, Mrs. L. W. Kimball Cor.
Sec. Relief Society Utah Stake read the min-
utes of the previous conference, which were
accepted. Reports were given from the First,
Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Wards Provo
also from Springville, Spanish Fork, Salem,
Payson, Santaquin and Goshen.
	Prest. M. T. Smoot said, I am happy to
have Sister Eliza, President of all the Relief
Societies wherever the kingdom of God extends,
with us again.
	Sister Eliza said, I feel very small, with
such an appellation, but pleased, however, to
listen to the various reports, and quite as much
edified as when listening to the bishops repre-
senting their several wards;  was gratified to
mark the improvement made by the sisters.
Prest.  Young said on one ocassion that if the
sisters would meet once a week they would
overcome their timidity,  the oftener they met
together the more of the spirit of God they
would enjoy. Said, we are not the self-sustain-
ing people we should be. We are now perse-
cuted by the nation instead of, as formerly, by
a county or state.
	There are a few who dare stand up for our
rights.  "I am not afraid, these wicked men are
tools in the hands of the Lord to try us, how
much farther He will allow them to go, we
know nit; but let us be determined to hold on
to the faith with renewed energy, and acknowl-
edge the hand of God in the "Edmunds bill.'
We want that faith in God that we would
rather meet death thn to swerve. There must
be a time, according to Scriptutre, when the
sinner in Zion will tremble.  Let us draw near
to our heavenly Father.  When the Kingdom
of God bears rule then the Saints will be free.
	When the Saints go back to Jackson County
we have the promise that "the Lord will go be-
fore you, my presence will go with you" and I
hope to be with you too, Bro Joseph said
when we got to the Rocky Mountains there
would be a great apostacy, and from there the
people would go south and from there to
Jackson County; and this generation should
not pass away until those things should come
to pass.
	These societies are of great importance, they
are for the perfecting of the mothers in Israel.
Let us wake up that we may feel the sweet in-
fluence of the spirit of God in our hearts con-
tinually.  Our father suffers trials to come
that we may be proven we are working to gain
a home in his presence.  I feel to bless you
and ask him to bless each one of us.  There is
a good spirit here to-day, and thanks be to God
for it.
	Singing.  adjourned until 2 P. M. Benedic-
tion.
	2 P. M.  Pleasant Grove, American Fork
and Lehi were represented in a most satis-
factory manner, showing united effort and faith
in God.  Alpine and Cedar not heard from.
	Sister M. T. Smoot said, I can say it is good
to be here, although not feeling at all well, but
am still in the gospel and feel happy, have
been edified in listening to the reports and feel
that it is by the power of God that the sisters
were overcoming their timidity, and can give
their reports in a clear and intelligent manner
without fear, we are truly on the increase in
good workds. We will not deny our religion.
No, not one iota of it.  We will trust in God
and know our redemption draws nigh. Wished
to speak in honorable remembrance of Sister
Emily Smoot, who since our last meeting had
been called away by death.  She had entered
into plural marriage with herself, and her
memory was very dear to her.  She had acted
wisely in that relation and gained her eternal
friendship. The speaker said if our enemies
could look in upon us to-day I think they
would be ashamed of themselves.  That we
may be saved with a fullness of glory is the
prayer of your humble servant.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball was the next
speaker. Her heart was filled with gratitude
to God that she lived in this momentous age.
Our persecutions are a proof that we are
saints of God, and striving to do his will and
over come evil with good.  Thanked the Lord
that she had embraced the Gospel and for the
experience she had, it was of more worth than
riches for this was all she could take with her.
Rejoiced in the various organizations for the
salvation of the youth of Zion.  Plead with
the mothers to watch over their daughters and
teach them pure principles.  Asked the bless-
ing of God to rest upon us, that we might over
come, and be saved with the sanctified in his
kingdom.
	Sister Z. D. H. Young said, when I look up-
on the faces of my sisters I cannot express my
feelings.  Do we plead guilty, or not guilty of
trading with ansd sustaining our enemies? Let
us refrain from these things. and if we feel the
chastening hand of the Almighty for our re-
missess in keeping his commands, let us bear
it humbly; wherein we are guilty of not listen-
ing to the counsels of his servants, of speaking
evil of one another let us repent.  If there is
any thing I would wish to run away from, it is
a fault-finding tongue. Thanked God she
had kept the faith.  She said, how pleasant it
is to look upon the faces of those who love the
Lord.  The speaker said, any people or nation
that lives on this continent, and will not keep
the commandments of God will be swept off.
It is now, with us, the kingdom of God or
nothing.  Sister Snow said, we are preparing
to found a Hospital for the saints, with the
approbation of Prest.  Taylor.  It is a need
long wanted, any sister in good standing can
become a member, by paying $1,00 annually.
Quite a number subscribed and became mem-
bers.  Sister Snow said she wished to endorse
what Sister Smoot said,  in regard to  Sister
Emily.  The circumstance of her stepping for-
ward to help establish that principle, and
honoring her position as a plural wife.  Some
think it  a trying position.  I say it is one of
the most elevating and ennobling principles that
I know of.  I always felt at home at Bro.
Smoots as at my own father's house, and can
truly say that when their son Albert was
drowned it was hard to tell who sorrowed most,
the wives mourned alike.
	Sister Whitney and Bp.  Watson made a
few remarks.  Conference adjourned for three
months.				L. W. KIMBALL.
							Corresponding Secy-

OGDEN CITY.
	Dear Sister.-- The Ladies Relief Society of
Weber Stake held their Conference on June
8th.  The meeting was conducted by Prest.
Jane S. Richards.  Commenced with the usual
exercises of singing and prayer.  The minutes
of the previous meeting were read and adopt-
ed.  Sister Richards made a few excellent re-
marks, explaining the object of the gathering
and expressing great pleasure at having the
privilege of again meeting with her brothers
and sisters in conference.
	We also had the pleasure of Sisters E. R.
Snow Smith and Zina D. Young's company at
this time.  Both expressed great pleasure at

[Column 3]
being permitted to meet with this Stake of
Zion. Spoke at some length on various sub-
jects of great interest to us as a people, giving
us good and wise counsel.  They also related
some very interesting reminiscenes regarding
the experiences of the Saints in early days.
They blessed this stake of Zion, hoping it
would prosper and make progress in all things
pertaining to the kingdom of God.
	Bishop Robert McQuarie next made a few
brief and excellent remarks.
	The meeting then adjourned with singing
and benediction until two P. M.
	When it was continued there was a large
assemblage present;  all seemed to enjoy the
good spirit that prevailed.
	The conference was adjourned with singing
and prayer, for three months.
			Respectfully
					MONTA HARRIS.

								May 23, 1882.
	Annual meeting of the Primary Associations
of South Cottonwood.  Meeting called to
order by our president Sister Elizabeth Davis.
Singing.  Opening prayer by Brother Christian
Steffeson.  Singing by the children.
	There were present as visitors, Sister E. B.
Ferguson, Bishop Joseph Rawlins and many
of the children's parents.  The meeting con-
sisted of recitations and songs;  and Sister
Ferguson gave a breif sketch of her life while
away from Utah.  Others gave good instruc-
tions to the children. In the afternoon there
was a picnic and party.
			Elizabeth Davis, President,
			Emily Brinton, Secretary.


FAITH, MEDICINE AND THE DOCTOR.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Doctors have become a fashionable appen-
dage to every community; it is now only vulgar
poor people who do not have "the family
Physician." But here let me say at starting,
I do not intend to speak, or feel disrespectfully
towards the Faculty, for I have been associated
with some bright specimens of Escalapius that
in my estimation redeem the rest. It is the
absurd, and ridiculous notions of people that
I so utterly despise. A healer of the sick is a
blessed visitor, whether as a man or a woman
whether as a friend or nurse; blessed are the
attendants on suffering humanity. Faith i
necessary in all who apply for relief, it was
Galius maxim that "hope and confidence out
value the drug." In a very severe sickness,
many years ago, my Doctor said "now, you
must have faith in me or I can not do you any
good." I was much struck by the remark even
then, and since I have become a L. D. S. I
have often pondered on his words, and the
time in which they were uttered. That man,
surely understood much of the principle of
faith; and, as a physician, I had all faith in
his skill, and his administration, yet never for-
getting that "Except the Lord build the house
their labor is but lost that build it" and I have
often thought that, had many of our people
the faith in the administration of our Elders
as they had and have in the Doctors they
would at once experience the God-given gift
of healing, in a marvelous degree. "By faith,
the worlds were made," so say the holy Scrip-
tures; and many in our Church have seen the
effects of Faith, in healing the sick, and in
many instances, indeed no true L. D. S. but
has seen and experienced this blessed gift, this
wonderful power! The gift of healing seems
to belong especially to some individuals, prob-
ably is an especial gift to them, and they seem
to have an instinctive knowledge that under
their administration the patient will be healed.
This is a mystery, but none the less true; all


physicians feel this, more or less. Our Elders
have a perfect confidence in this predilection,
because they know they are "endowed with
power from on high," and therefore, if magni-
fying their calling, the result will be sure; if
the sick are not "appointed unto death."
	There is also a great deal in the manner of
any one on entering a sick room; we will take
a Doctor, a good amiable man with a cheerful,
animated manner, a sympathetic, gentle spirit,
a confident, prompt, hopeful assurance; such a
man carries a healing power in his very voice,
and manner, and from the moment of his en-
trance the patient feels invigorated, cheered
and regenerated, and the healing has begun;
even a friendly visitor often has this power,
and when leaving the sick, one earnestly says,
come again, you always do me good; who does
not know this by actual experience. The suc-
cessful Doctor owes more to his manner than
to his drugs; his presence works deeper and
more effectually than his medicine, very often;
and surely this will apply in a much greater
degree to our Elders. They are ordained to
heal the sick by the order of Christ himself;
even by the laying on of their hands, and by
the prayer of faith, and the promise is the sick
shall be healed; there is no doubt about it, but
"they shall be healed." As I said before they
are ordained to heal the sick; but I would pre-
sume, as a mother in Israel, to advise our
young Elders to cultivate the manners I have
been portraying, to first realize the honor
that has been conferred upon them, the mighty
blessing of being a healer of the sick body—of
the bruised heart, of the wounded spirit! If,
with ordination, there is a manner cultivated
by the heart and the affections, and with a
holy and a touching sympathy with the suffering
there will then be the actual touch of the great
physician who gave the keys—not of science,
but of personality, opening the laboratory of
Heaven, by the touch and prayer of faith.
	The Doctor operates by skill of character
more often than by skill of knowledge; it is the
active not the speculative part of his mind
that wins him professional eminence, and where
we find a man with this insight into the char-
acter of his patients, you find a Doctor sought
for with a faith that were it exercised in the
church of Christ, would acheive wonders. God
gives the ordinations, it is for man, his agent,
to carry them out with tact and talent, with a
knowledge of the human organism. Mentally,
morally and physically, "With the spirit and
with the understanding," and may we, as a
people, cultivate ourselves, that we may receive
all the good that is around and about us, even
Heaven itself if we were enlightened enough
to see and comprehend, appreciate and apply
that, that lies waiting for us to take up for our
own especial benefit, here and hereafter.
	Ignorance is a black veil that hangs more
or less over all minds, but many are aware of
it, and by prayer and faith are daily in school,
attempting to light as far as possible the sable
cloud. Ignorance is not bliss to the culti-
vated soul; intelligence is of God. and only
by it can we approximate nearer to Him; and
the more our spirits are enlarged on earth the
deeper draughts shall we recieve of Heaven.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 31


[Column 1]
ON MORMONISM.

	Our true name is Latter-day Saints; but the
world calls us "Mormons" and I for one find it
more convenient to adopt that name when I
wish to be understood by all.
	Therefore, in these remarks I shall refer to
ourselves as "Mormons," and our religion as
"Mormonism." It is very easy indeed to state
in general terms what our religion is, but it
would take volumes—yes, ages to delineate it,
because it is so all-embracing, so all-pervading
Mormonism is truth.

[Column 2]
	All truth is Mormonism. No matter how
high, how low, how vast, how minute, how
universal or how limited a truth may be, that
is Mormonism.
	If you have learned a truth which my mind
cannot yet grasp, in that instance you are a
better Mormon than I. If you cultivate any
grace, virtue or excellence in a greater degree
than I, there again you excel me as a Mormon,
for Mormonism includes all that is lovely,
pure and ennobling, because they are lovely,
pure and ennobling.	*	*	*	
	When I was very young I pondered much
on the cold-hearted selfishness of any little
sect which was so small a drop of the great
ocean of humanity which never heard of them
or their creeds, having the temerity to believe
that just those few whose circumstances per-
mitted them to become acquainted with that
particular set of creeds would be saved in the
celestial kingdom, while all the rest of God's
vast family would be rejected and cast away.
But when I learned that Mormonism proved
wide enough to cover both the living and the
dead, my soul was comforted; and here I found
reasonable ground for faith that God was the
author of it. We build Temples which are
dedicated to the Most High, and therein we
perform ordinances for the dead, because we
believe that on earth and not in heaven is
the proper place for baptism, ordination etc. 
We believe that many who preached to and
taught the children of men while in the flesh,
now that they have put off their mortality and
passed "behind the vail," still continue their
ministry and will continue it until all who
died without hearing Christ's true message
to man, and God's will concerning his
children, will hear it and understand it; and it
is their right to accept or reject the message
and ratify or repudiate the ordinances and
covenants which we make for them on earth.
Thus we have the privilege of being co-work-
ers with Christ and his faithful Apostles in the
plan of redemption; and we are assured that
when we have performed "the work" for all
whose names are obtainable from records,
histories and other human sources, the millions
of unknown and unrecorded dead will be re-
vealed to us.
	The magnitude of the undertaking would
be too appalling for poor human endeavor
were not God at the helm! But we are not
required to make any unreasonable haste, nor
neglect to provide for the wants of the living
either in physical nourishment, intellectual
cultivation or spiritual teaching. And ours is a
progressive religion. We do not dare suppose
that we are in possession of all truth, nor even
a sufficiency of it. We expect to progress
throughout all time and all eternity; to be always
learning, always improving, always achieving.
Any truth which is not known to us today, we
hope to learn tomorrow; and we pray for grace
and feel the need of it, to recognize truth when
ever we meet it, and to be always willing to
accept it.
	We consider God, and him alone, infallible;
therefore his revealed word to us cannot be-
doubted, though we may be in doubt some
times about the knowledge which we obtain
from human sources, and occasionally be
obliged to admit that something which we had
considered to be a fact, was really only a
theory.
	The Golden Rule: "As ye would that men
should do unto you, do ye even so unto them"
is our first and most important law: and were
we freed from human weakness and blindness
so far as to apply this incomparable law consist-
ently, justly and exactly, we should really have
no need of any other law, statute or command-
ment; for even the Decalogue is but auxiliary
to this, a sort of bill of particulars for our
assistance as little children yet studying the

[Column 3]
rudiments of salvation, and are obviously in
eluded in this great fundamental law of love
and justice.
	We believe that Adam and Eve by breaking
God's command, incurred the penalty previous-
ly attached to that command, or rather the
breaking of it—sorrow, pain and death.
	We believe that Christ, who was already a
redeemed being and not subject to those penal-
ties, obtained his Father's permission to be-
come subject to them and suffer them in his
own person for the reward, the happiness of
opening the doors of the resurrection, and re-
deeming from death the children of Adam and
Eve who inherited that legacy from their first
parents.
	We believe that all those who, within the
limit of grace, (and who can say how vast that
is) acknowledge him and accept his offered ser-
vice will, after atoning for their individual
sins, conquer death and enter into Christ's
kingdom at the right hand of the Father;
while they who reject him and his service are
at liberty to do so, and his atonement will
reach them, for "all is free grace and all
is free will," and "God will force no man to
heaven."
	We believe it to be obligatory on every
soul to seek after truth earnestly and faith-
fully but we do not believe that any human
soul will be rejected for being ignorant of
truth which it never met and never had oppor-
tunity to learn. The opportunity, full and
complete, will be offered before condemnation
will be uttered; therefore none need despair
save those who are willfully ignorant and re-
bellious, those "who love and make a lie,"
and who "call good evil and evil good."
							LU DALTON.


THERE IS NO WASTE.

	Waste is a crime. Perhaps the statement
should be qualified. It is a crime where it re-
sults from neglect, or where it is due to ignor-
ance that follows indifferent knowledge.
It is a crime wherever human forethought
and ingenuity have rendered it possible to pre-
vent waste. In this great world of ours, the
perfection of whose creation, and whose laws
seem the more complete the more they are un-
derstood, how can it be that there should be a
natural waste? Will any person, who believes
in the existence of a deity, or who recognizes—
and all must do one or the other—a supreme
power, venture the assertion, that the vast and
incomprehensible wisdom concentrated in the
creation and destiny of this world, could en-
dure a waste of any kind? It is impossible.
Is there any waste in nature? The most tri-
fling leaf, the smallest of the animal kind, the
most detestable worm, all have a reason for
their being, all fulfill the necessities which
called them into existence. There is no waste
among them; they know not such a thing; only
in human beings, endowed with intelligence,
and created in the image of the Almighty, is
such a condition as that of waste a possibility.
	Of the thousands of articles—it may be old
and useless for the purpose for which they were
made—which are thrown away year after year
and by poor families, there is scarcely one
which is not of some value, and which could
not be utilized in some industry. It is true
that, in a community like ours where manufac-
tures are few, it is impossible to utilize many
of these things; but still there is a waste, a
needless waste, and care on the part of many,
and a little energy on the part of a few would
soon result in new industries, and new manu-
factures making the people wealthier for the
care, and more self-sustaining for the energy.
Let us give an illustration.
	Many, years ago when gas was discovered in
England, and its utility as an illuminating


[Column 1]

power established, a refuse was left from the
coal which had been destroyed as a fuel in the
manufacturies of gas. This refuse was called
"coal tar." As the consumption of gas in-
creased, the quantity of coal used in its manu-
facture also increased, and this resulted in a
corresponding increase in the "coal tar." It
grew so fast, and seemed so utterly worthless
that it was a nuisance. What to do with it
was the cry; and a premium was almost offered
to those who would carry it away. During
this time, and while the "coal tar" evil attained
greater magnitude, a chemist (I think his name
was Perkins) was analyzing "coal tar," and at-
tempting to form a combination of some kind
from it, what that was I also forget. He
worked at it for weeks and months with out
success. One day, however, when almost dis-
heartened at the repeated failures he had made,
he discovered that by a new combination, an
entirely different result had been obtained from
that anticipated. He stopped and examined
it, and that examination proved the most fortun-
ate of his life; for the chemical combination
was one which has since become a household
article, and is one which is productive of the
utmost pleasure to the eye. It was a combin-
ation for which they now celebrate and valu-
able analyne dyes are made. "Coal tar" was no
longer a waste; it was of value, was eagerly
sought for, and became a thing of value and
profit instead of a nuisance to the gas compan-
ies.
	True, this is one instance; but there are
thousands. Ask the chemist who sees the pro-
fusion about us if there is any waste; he will
sigh and say, there seems to be nothing but
waste. That is a waste which is destroyed
or is allowed to be destroyed when it could be
utilized with profit to some one.
	But, there I started to say "There is no
waste," when the burden of my song has been
to show that there is nothing but waste. What
I did start out to say was that there is no
waste in nature; but, like a school boy, I al-
lowed myself to be lured away from the path
I should have followed, and instead of wander-
ing amid flowers and pleasant ways, I fell into
weeds and rocky places.
	I have heard men declare (and I will not
claim to be free from the charge myself) that
it was a sin to see so much land lying idle, be-
cause it did not happen to rain just when they
wanted, or because water did not flow as near
as they might desire it. What! nature tolerate
a waste! as well say she does not abhor a vacu-
um. There is no spot in the wide world that
cannot be made of some value to man; so kind
is the nature and the God we so much com-
plain of. On the dry bench, the sage-brush
and sunflower will grow and thrive, both of
which are of acknowledged use, though their
utilization may not now be as profitable as are
the cultivation of other articles. The sage
has medicinal and other properties, perhaps, not
yet discovered. The much despised and
thoroughly abhorred sunflower—I speak now
as a gardener, not as an Oscar Wilde—is of
value. Its stalk can be manufactured into
paper, the fibre being excellent, while from
the seed a valuable oil can be expressed.
There is no spot on earth which nature has
destined to be an eternal waste. For up un-
der the Alpine and Sierra snows a plant grows,
and has a purpose or it would not be there;
and the vast desert areas will yet, when the
knowledge of man is sufficiently increased, prove
that nature is the embodiment of economy,
as it is the embodiment of perfection in all other
respects. I am not a prophet and do not think
I will ever be good enough to be so beloved of
the Lord as to become a prophet, but I have
such unbounded confidence in the common
sense at the bottom of this world's creation,
that I dare predict the day will yet come
when places now esteemed most useless,

[Column 2]

will prove to be another exhibition of the
kindness of a loving father, in preparing
means for the sustenance of his children on
this earth. Necessity, the mother of all inven-
tions, will yet discover a use for all things;
and will force her children to be careful of all
things, if they would be at least moderately
beyond the reach of poverty.
	SIMPLE SIMON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHESTER PRIMARY.
	There being no Primary "organ," I write
you a brief statement of the first Primary Fair
in this little place, held yesterday under the
patient, persevering presdient, Sister Emma
Heyward's careful supervision.
	The exhibition of work made by the boys,
of field-rollers, rakes andp laited bridle, etc.,
was particularly gratifying and somewhat in-
genious, but the little girls bore off the palm
in matters of taste, house adornments, etc.; to
enumerate occupies space, and to specially no-
tice where all was excellent would wound some
of the dear little ones who in honest pride
showed their best and prettiest.
 We were treated to a nice exhibition of well
selected pieces, among them "The little peace-
maker," "The beautiful snow," "Purse proud,"
"Fixing for Grandma," "Baby Lella," "Both
sides," "We are coming, Mary," and "Country
Girls."
	The committing of the dear impressional
souls to the care of such patient grandames as
Sister Heyward is wise and judicious; they
seem to live over again their girl life in the
enjoyment of the children; they are like min-
istering angels walking the earth for good.
These Primary nurseries are a good insti-
tution, and I sometimes think they need a
cheap organ to gather up and preserve their
history. 
					CHESTERFIELD.


Of vain things, excuses are the vainest,

	Justice is the Queen of all virtues. - Ciero.

	Habit is a cable. We spin a thread of it
each day.
	There is a remedy for every wrong and a
satisfaction for every soul.

	One grain of truth brings down the scales
against a world of error.

	Mrs. Sarah E. Franklin was a delegate from
Indiana to the state convention.

	More than half the newspaper in the world
are printed in the English language.

	Mrs. Helen M. Gouger, of Lafayette, and
Miss Florence Hardin, of Pendleton, spoke on
the Fourth of July at Anderson.

	A large number of young women graduated
from the Boston University this year than ever
before, From the School of Floral Arts there
were seven, from the Theological School one,
and from the School of Medicine thirteen.
Three were admitted to the degree of M. A.
- Miss Alice Leon Mumford, Miss Marion
Talbot and Miss Agnes Fitz Henry Williams -
and one to the degree of Ph. D. - Miss Marie
A. Molineaux. This lady is the second one
only who has taken this degree, Miss Helen
Magil being the other. - Ex.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its annual meeting this year at Oma-
ha, September 26, 27 and 28. On the 29th
and 30th the same speakers will hold a mass
convention in Lincoln. Boyd's Opera House
in Omaha, and Church's in Lincoln, have been
engaged for these evenings, so the suffragists
will have no rival attractions. Following
these meetings the speakers will divide into
three boards, holding two days' meetings at
these other important towns, and then from
these localities will separate for individual ef-
fort. - Ex.


Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODLE, PITS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a. m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
	EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT;
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Lades' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED
S. P. TEASDEL.

Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands.
Children's Fine Shoes,
o--in the West. Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store,
Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels, White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBARCH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NO. 124&126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER,
Agent for RUMSEY's celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notices. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Addrees, David James, Box 300, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


Susan Grant
						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 11.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1882.			No. 5.


DREAMING AND WAKING.

Little maiden why that pouting?
	Why that teardrop? Why that sigh?
	Why that struggling? Why that doubting?
	Why the flashing of thine eye?

	Why sad thoughts and [---] fearing, 
		To beset thy youthful heart?
	How amidst a world so cheering,
		Can you live from joy apart?

	Now sweet maiden if thou'rt listening,
		I will give to thee a key,
	That will ope the gates all glistening
		Of a bright futurity.

	Seek thou first, through Father's blessing,
		His pure spirit-to control
	Every impulse of thy being--
		All tho feelings of thy soul.

[---]
	In every word, and act, and feeling,
		Seek for guidance from above,
	For He loves in light revealling
		To bestow on us His love.

	Let [---] thought as well as acting
		Be for good and usefulness;
	Of thyself be most exacting,
		'Twill [---] most happiness.

	[--]il not at others f[-]llings,
		Close thine eyes to others [---];
	For we know not half the w[---]ings[-]
		Hidden [---] life's sacred vaults.

	Mortals see but pride and vaunting,
		Wrongfully our motives mould;
	None but God can know the promptings
		Of the human, wavering soul.

	Be not prone to idle dreaming,
		Building castles in the air,
	Though the walls with stars are gleaming,
		you can never climb the stair.

	For the error in thy building,
		No bright painting can [-]tone;
	It is all a brilliant gilding,
		[-]But without foundation stone!

	If you heed not kindly warning,
		You will taste the bitter woe[-]
	Of awakening some bright morning,
		With your castle fallen low.

	Seek thou then the boon of working,
		Labor bringeth more than gold;
	In thy duties never shirking,
		You will find a joy untold.

	Seek with kind and gentle b[--]ring
		Deeds of comfort to bestow;
	Others' griefs and sorrows sharing,
		Others joys to make and know;

	Be thou faithful, just, unswerving,
		In the path of truth and right;
	God our Father ever serving,
		With a sterling will and might.

	Then you'll feel a joy abounding,
		That no mortal pen may tell,
	All through life the words resounding--
		Father trusting--all is well!

	Gentle maiden, thoughtful standing;
		With the great unknown before,
	New ideas of life expanding--
		Flooding thought and being o'er.

	Take these words of loving greeting,
		And the blessings in[---],
	They are lasting, never [---],
		Keep them o'er in heart and mind[-]
Salt Lake City, May 18th, 1881.                             E.R.S[-]


[Column 1]

A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Continued.

	As soon as possible after arriving in a new
and desolate country, such as this was when
we first came here, Mr. and Mrs. Horne, who
have ever been energetic and industrious,
made themselves a nice little home in the 14th
ward of this city, and from that time until the
present have retained the homestead, adding
to the house and improving it, and the grounds,
as circumstances permitted. There their chil-
dren have grown up to manhood and to
womanhood, and others have been born to
them under the same roof. From that home,
sacred to love and duty, sons and daughters
have married and gone out to homes of their
own, and to fill honorable places and positions
in the Church; full of faith and integrity to
the Gospel whose principles they have been
taught in early life, and in the spirit of which
they have been nurtured and reared. Henry,
Joseph and Richard have been called upon
missions to preach the Gospel, and have faith-
fully performed the work. The girls are char-
acteristic for self-reliance, energy of character,
industry and perseverance; Mrs. Horne's chil-
dren have all received a good common educa-
tion and some have excelled in mental attain-
ments. Mrs. Horne is proverbially a true
mother; she has not only taught her children
admirable traits of character, but she has ex-
cellent family government and discipline, and
her children have formed regular habits that
will be of more value than gold or silver with-
out them. Mrs. Horne has not been without
trials in her married life, although she has
perhaps had none of those great changes that
cut deeper into a woman's life than a two-
edged sword. Whatever ordeals she has
passed through have been such as the Gospel
brought, or those which all share in sickness
and death. Plural marriage was to her a
principle of the Gospel given for the elevation
and exaltation of the human family. Her
belief in divine revelation, her great reverence
for every principle taught by the Prophet Jo-
seph, has helped her to receive truth, however
much it came in contact with her own personal
feelings and traditions. In speaking of her
first knowledge of the order of celestial mar-
riage, she says she has had strong testimony
for herself that it is of the Lord. The follow-
ing is from her pen:
	"I felt that it was my husband's duty to
obey this principle, yet I knew it would prove
a great trial to me. I prayed to the Lord con-
tinually that He would give me strength to
bear all things which it was his pleasure to
bring upon me. One night, while my husband
was away on an exploring expedition to the
southern part of Utah, in the winter of 1851,
while I was on my knees praying to the Lord,
a heavenly messenger suddenly appeared at my
bedside. He was clothed in a beautiful white
robe, with a girdle around his waist. I can
never forget the heavenly influence I felt
around me while he spoke to me on the subject
of celestial marriage. He told me that I had
to pass through severe trials and afflictions, but,
said this holy being, 'bear it all patiently; for
it will exalt you, and you will shine brightly
in the kingdom of God.' He then left me. I

[Column 2]

felt perfectly happy and contented the next
day; the house was so full of the holy influ-
ence that this messenger left behind him."
	From this time Mrs. Horne became more
than willing to enter into this holy order of
marriage by giving her husband other wives.
In due time this relation was entered into by
mutual consent of all parties concerned. Mrs.
Horne has borne herself nobly in all the dif-
ferent phases of plural domestic relations and
conditions, and to-day will testify that the ex-
perience gained in this higher school of life,
the necessity of self-sacrifice, is most refining
and elevating in its nature. There are no
nobler women on the face of the earth than
those who live in this order of marriage,
which is condemned by the outside world.
	On the 13th of August another daughter
was born to Mrs. Horne, which she named
Julia Maria. At this time there were more
comforts to be obtained for the sick, and the
circumstances of the Saints were greatly im-
proved, but there is one trial after another for
those who are working out their salvation, and
when Mrs. Horne's babe was only two weeks
old her husband was called on a mission to the
Missouri River to assist in the emigrating of a
company of Latter-day Saints. The wife and
mother, with a little family of six children,
was left entirely alone. Yet notwithstanding
her household cares and a young babe, Mrs.
Horne spent considerable time among the sick
and poor in her own neighborhood. She has
always devoted much time and ability to the
interests of others, giving counsel, attending
upon the sick, comforting the mourner, and in
all those offices of friendship and sisterly love
that are so beautiful in woman. Mr. Horne
returned with the company after a few months'
absence, finding his affairs in as good condition
as though a man had superintended every de-
tail of his business.
	Mrs. Horne had another, a second, pair of
twins born on the 9th of November, 1853; she
named them John Parley and Mary Isabella.
The little girl died with whooping cough at the
age of four months. On the 9th of Decem-
ber, 1855, the third pair of twins were born,
both girls. They were called Pamela Eliza
and Cornelia Harriet. The last two made four
little ones born within two years and one
month. The mother lay hovering between
life and death for several hours after the birth
of these twin daughters, and although she ral-
lied and slowly recovered, it was a long time
before she was able to attend to her household
duties.
	After she had partially recovered, during
the time of her convalescence, her thoughts
were much of heavenly things, and her mind
drawn out in gratitude to God for the preser-
vation of her life, as she was desirous of rear-
ing her family in the fear of the Lord. While
pondering upon the goodness of God upon one
occasion, she was impressed to write her feel-
ings, and gave vent in a sweet and tender little
poem upon the birth of her twins, which might
be appropriately entitled, "A Mother's Wel-
come." Mrs. Horne is inclined to the poetical,
especially in a spiritual sense. She has the
gift of tongues, and often under the inspiration
of the Holy Spirit breaks forth in singing, in
lofty strains of praise and even prophecy;
which, when interpreted, breathe the true spirit
of poesy. Her themes in song are always ex-
alted ones, and partake of the sublime.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SPEECH OF DR. MARIA ZAKRZE-
				WEKA.

AT WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE FESTIVAL, BOSTON.

		WOMAN IN MEDICINE.

	It is now thirty-three years since the first
diploma as  doctor of medicine was given to a
woman, Elizabeth Blackwell having conceived
the idea of competing with men in the care of
the sick as a physician, succeeding after some
years of struggle, in being admitted into a reg-
ular medical college for men, in Geneva, New
York from which she graduated in 1849:
	Through the favor of some prominent phys-
icians, she had opportunity for practical obser-
vation in Europe, and in 1851 she returned
and settled in New York. In 1853 I arrived
in America, having similar views and plans,
and soon became connected with her move-
ment; thus I can claim to be one of the pio-
neer physicians of America.
	Dr. Blackwell's course excited great interest
all over the world, and in Philadelphia a Med-
ical School for Women was started at once;
that is thirty-two years ago. It received aid
cheifly from the Quakers, who also a few years
later started a hospital.
	The New York Infirmary for Indigent
Women was chartered by Dr. Blackwell twen-
ty-nine years ago, and has opened since a good
medical college for women.
	The Chicago Hospital (Medical School for
Women subsequently added) is sixteen years
old.
	The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
opened its doors to women medical students
about ten years ago. In some of the other
States, also, the medical schools now admit
women.
	From America, the movement has extended
to Europe, and the medical schools of the Uni-
versity of Zurich, of Paris, and lately of Lon-
don and of Dublin, graduate women students
on the same terms as men. Thus opportunities
to test the willingness of women to study, and
their capacity for practice in this branch of
science, are increasing everywhere. Still oppo-
sition awaits those engaged in the profession,
both as teachers and practitioners - the pioneer
work is not yet done - and I can only express
the wish that an opposition may continue to
exist for at least sixty years longer.
	It is only by overcoming obstacles, by pene-
trating and removing difficulties, that this re-
form will prove itself to be grounded on a
solid foundation in the very nature of woman,
and will lose its social phenomenal character,
All womankind ought to congratulate them-
selves, that the help given by men has not
been more general;  that what has thus far been
accomplished, has been chiefly done by women
in opposition to men.
	If women shall succeed in holding their po-
sition, as practitioners and scientists, for the
next fifty years, as they have done for the past
thirty-three  years, then it will be proved that
it lies in a woman's nature, just as much as in
a man's to educate whatever faculties, to de-
velop whatever talents she may be endowed
with. For all I demand as the right of woman
is free play for doing what is in her nature to
do; and if she feels she cannot apply herself to
anything else but the study and practice of
medicine, all I ask is plenty of opportunity to
fit herself through education, for that purpose,
and afterwards a chance to try her capacity as
practitioner.
	So far, women have developed well in every
branch of medical science, and compete with
men in general practice, in obstetrics, and in
surgery- We can show you as excellent
women surgeons as there are men surgeons, and
we are beginning to have also good writers as

[Column 2]
well as women scientists, both here in America
and in England.
	Therefore, let us proudly say the women
physicians are among the best practical woman's
rights women. [Applause.]


MODERN ELECTRICITY.

	We read in the morning papers of Tuesday
the telegraphic news that "Admiral Semour
opened fire upon the forts at Alexandria at 9
o'clock this morning," which, calculating the
difference in time, was actually put to press by
every morning paper in every city in this
country in two hours after the bombardment
commenced.
	The transmission of the first message over
the wires between Baltimore and Washington
was an achievement so wonderful that it was
heralded around the globe. The laying of the
first cable across the Atlantic, in 1858, laughed
at and derided by wise men as impracticable
and impossible, was accomplished. And after
our Chief Magistrate and the Queen of Eng-
land had exchanged congratulations over the
great achievement, the cable parted, and there
were sad faces, and croakers said, "I told you
so." But those who were engaged in the en-
terprise did not lose courage; the broken ends
were recovered from the ocean's bed and re-
united, and, to-day, the laying of a cable across
the oceans and the seas excites a simple news-
paper paragraph of a dozen lines. Now the
whole habitable globe is linked together by a
network of wires; revolutionizing trade, com-
merce, exchange and all our methods of doing
business. Instead of waiting nine or ten
months for an answer to the letter to our cor-
respondent in Calcutta, we converse with him
almost as easy as with the customers in our
stores and countingrooms.
	Webster, in that magnificent passage descrip-
tive of the power of England, said, "A power
which has dotted over the surface of the whole
globe with her possessions and military ports,
whose morning drumbeat following the sun and
keeping company with the hours, circles the
earth with one continuous and unbroken strain
of the martial airs of England."
	Not only does her "drumbeat follow the sun
and keep company with the hours," but, to-
day, the long roll that calls her battalions to
the field on the plains of India, or her sailors
to their guns before the forts of Alexandria,
has hardly ceased before its vibrations are
heard the world around, and every newspaper
in the land heralds on its bulletins the details
of the fight before the smoke of battle has
passed away. And all this has been accom-
plished in less than a quarter of a century, ac-
tually within a single decade from the laying
of the first cable. Who will venture to pre-
dict what the next twenty-five years shall re-
veal in the application of this wonderful, mys-
terious, unseen and incomprehensible power?—J.
C. P., in The Watchman, Boston.


A girl who can put a square patch on a pair
of pantaloons may not be so accomplished as
one who can work on a green worsted dog on a
yellow ground, but she is of more real value in
the community.
What a blessing to the household is a merry,
cheerful woman- one whose spirits are not af-
fected by wet days and little disappointments,
and whose milk of human kindness does not
sour in the sunshine of human prosperity.
Such a woman, in the darkest hours, brightens
the house like a piece of sunshiny weather.
The children go to school with a sense of some-
thing great to be achieved; husband goes out
into, the world in a conqueror's spirit. No mat-
ter how he is annoyed abroad, at home he is
sure to find rest.


NOTES AND NEWS.
Iowa and Kansas are doing good and effec-
tive work for the enfranchisement of woman.
"Woman suffrage work in Nebraska has
awakened such a positive interest in all parts
of the State that it looks as though they 
would succeed in giving to woman equal politi-
cal rights.
A mass meeting of woman suffragists of
Ohio will be held in the Murphy Tabernacle,
Third Street, Columbus, O., on Wednesday,
August 2d, for the purpose of organizing the
Woman Suffrage Association of Ohio, which
is auxiliary to the American.
A husband advertised in the Sheffield "Daily
Telegraph," England, that he, Thomas A---, 
would no longer be answerable for the debts
incurred by his wife. The wife retorted: "This
is to certify that I, Elizabeth A----, am able
to pay my own depts, now that I have got shut
of Tommy."
It is said that Queen Victoria at Balmoral
recieves about fourty telegrams in a day. She
sits up until one o' clock in the morning,
reading them and writing, and at eight
o'clock resumes her daily duties. The Queen
is never idle; her example for industry might
well be imitated by those in the ordinary walks
of life. 
Victor Hugo has a daughter, Adele, in a pri-
vate insane asylum near Paris. She is about
50 years old and is said to resemble the por-
trait of Madame Hugo, by Johnnot. She is
very proud of her father's fame, and repeats his
poems from memory. The story of her misfor-
tune is, she married a young naval officer with-
out the consent of her father; he deserted her
and left her penniless and without proof of the
legality of her marriage.
Women should understand that no beauty
has any charms but the inward one of the
mind, and that a gracefulness in the manners
is much more engaging than that of their per-
sons; that meekness and modesty are the true
and lasting ornaments; for she that has these is
qualified as she ought to be for the manage-
ment of a family, for the education of her chil-
dren, for an affection for her husband, and
submitting to a prudent way of living. These
only are the charms that render wives amiable,
and give them the best title to respect.
In his lecture recently delievered in New
York, in connection with the silk exhibition,
Mr. Herman Rocke pointed out the possibilites
of silk culture in this country. Before the lec-
ture the guests visited the tables covered with
silk worms in all stages of life, from the egg to
the butterfly, while a Japanese boy was reeling
off the silk from the cocoon, and the weaving
process was going on at the loom. Since the
opening of the exhibition there has been added
a large number of the various kinds of worms,
and the hall has been decorated with Japanese
pictures representing the silk culture in that
country. The object of the exhibition, the lec-
turer said, was to show what could be done in
silk culture in this country. The vast sums of
money leaving this country could all be kept
here. There were mulberry trees enough that
would give food to the worms sufficently to
produce all the silk needed. It was easy work,
the speaker added, for the children to take
part in, by feeding and watching over the
worms. He said that France was able, in a 
large degree, to pay her great dept incurred in
the Fran co-Prussian war, through the part the
children took in the silk culture. In conclu-
sion, he predicted a large growth in silkworm
culture and silk manufacturing in this country
within a few years. - Scranton Republican.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TOO LATE.

She lay in her lonely coffin, 
	With her wasted fingers pressed
Over the fair, full roses,
	They had placed upon her breast;
And the head that ached no longer,
	And the pitiful haggard face.
They had pillowed with gleaming satin, 
 	Had shaded with costly lace.
Then I said—and my heart was heavy, 
	Recalling her life forlorn—
"Let none lay a rose on my bosom
	Who have planted my life with thorn!"

They mourned her in softest whispers,
	They moved with a reverent tread;
Who never had loved the living, 
	So honored they the dead. 
"What glamour vailed your senses!
	O cheated heart!" I cried;
"Come back and claim largess of love
	From the mourners at your side!"
Then I said, and my heart grew bitter,
	Remember her loveless life.
"Let none say 'peace to my ashes'
	Who filled my days with strife!"

What! when dust returns to dust, 
	When the soul goes back to God, 
When pain, nor delight nor passion
	Is felt by this earthly clod—
Is that a time for tears,
	For pity, for charity,
When life has been bitter and lonelyl
	And love was a hollow lie?
Once it had been like manna, 
	All that her spirit craved;
Had sated her hungry longing—
	Once it had helped and saved.
But now, when no gentle ministries
	Her pulesless heart can move, 
Come not with fond caresses—
	Oh, mock not the dead with love!

For I know when her soul was starving, 
	These, in their righteous pride,
Like the arrogant Priest and Levite, 
	Passed by on the other side;
But when the toll of the death bell
	Smote on their startled ears, 
The hypocrites wails of anguish
	Outnumbered the true heart's tears.
Alas! if the tender kindness
	Spent on the coffined dead,
Were lavished upon them living, 
	How sweetly their lives had sped!

		JUNE L., in "Woman's Journal."


"A FEW MORE FACTS."
			-------
	All intelligent people will agree with Scrip-
ture that it is but fair to judge a tree by its
fruits.  Now I claim that polygamy brings
forth fruit of the very choicest kind.  I was
born and reared in this order, and am peculi-
arly proud of my parentage; would not ex-
change with the daughters of Queen Victoria.
Most writers on this subject claim that poly-
gamy must in time yield to higher civilization.
How very absurd to be sure.  Did not our pa-
rents come from the very heart of civilization.
but a very few years ago?  And are they not
among the noblest and most intelligent of the
world?  And did not this order of marriage
shock and astonish them quite as much as the
Christian world now profess to be shocked?
Certainly, and it came in contact with their
tradition, education, and every selfish feeling of
their natures.  And more, they were compelled
to endure the scorn of the world, and of their
nearest and dearest friends.  But did they insti-
tute it?  Did they seek it?  Did they desire it?
No, of course not.  Common sense will answer
that question.  God, our Creator, positively
commanded it; and what could they do?  The
trial was so great that many would have pre-
ferred death, and would no doubt never have
received it had not God in His mercy shown it
to them individually by His power, for He
knew the honesty of their hearts in doubting, 
and had respect unto their integrity.  A great
many felt like this:  We know it was practiced
by the ancient saints; but, oh! do not require
this sacrifice of us.  But God strengthened
them, and made them understand His glorious
purpose in establishing it; how He could by
this holy order people the world with a right-
eous seed and purify and improve the present
state of mankind; and how, through this chan-
nel, those waiting in the spirit land might be
brought forth, and population need not de-
crease as the world would have it, but increase
on a grand scale through virtuous and God-
fearing parents; for none but the highly-intel-
ligent and noble-minded can make a success of
plural marriage.  It requires firmness, piety,
faith, hope and charity to a very great degree;
and when they talk about degrading, I wonder
and smile at their ignorance, and totally fail to
see one degrading feature in it.  Why, it is the
very essence of purity. 
	Now I will let you take a peep into my
neighbor's affairs, that is, the polygamic ones.
Here is Mrs. W. on my right; she is the second
wife, has a lovely and comofortable home, and
a large fine family of ten, ranging from two to
twenty-three in age; also one belonging to ano-
ther wife (deceased), which she has reared as
her own.  They are truly a happy family, and
a very good lot of boys and girls. The first
wife comes frequently to visit them, and I have
often witnessed their meeting, unobserved; 'tis
a hearty kiss and clasp of the hand, and all
the children flock around for the affectionate
greeting they are sure to get from "Auntie."
She has told me she always sent for her when
sickness came among them, "for she is such a
good nurse, you know, and so kind."  I called
Sunday afternoon, and was delightfully enter-
tained with sweet music and singing by the
older girls.  All except the two youngest at-
tend school, and are in every way loved and
cherished by a kind father, and almost the
same as two good mothers.  The first wife has
also a very nice family.
	Here is Mrs. S. on my left; she is plural
wife; has a family of twelve, four of them be-
long to a former wife who died.  She is such a 
pleasant, good woman, and does not appear
very miserable, I am sure; on the contrary, I 
don't know of a happier woman.  She has a
most lovely home, her lawn and gardens would
command the admiration of any one.  Her
family are taught strict economy and industry,
as is the case with most of us, else how could
we subsist in the barren country, especially
where there are so many in family.  These are
the kind of boys and girls who will bless any
community and adorn society anywhere.
	Now, I am one of a family of thirty chil-
dren; was reared with my brothers and sisters
under the kind care of a most affectionate
father and loving and intelligent mothers.  We
were taught it was wrong to utter one impure
word.  We were called around in a family
circle to sacred prayer every morning and
evening.  We love each other as dearly as own
brothers and sisters.  My brothers, ten in
number, are large, fine-looking, noble men, an
honor to their father and a pride to their
mothers, and strictly temperate, not one excep-
tion.  The girls are also average and make
excellent mothers, and one and all to-day advo-
cate plural marriage after all this "dreadful
experience."  Strange, isn't it?  Well, this is
some of the fruits of polygamy, and I might
cite to many more facts of the same kind, but
will conclude by stating my unflinching belief
that this, the kingdom of God, will soon tri-
umph over every other, and "woe, woe to all
who will not humble themselves" and receive
and obey the simple but glorious plan of salva-
tion and eternal life, ere it is too late.
							CHARITY.


TESTIMONY OF MARGARET WEST.

IN PRESENCE OF JESSE N. SMITH, SAMUEL H.
ROGERS, SMITH D. ROGERS AND OTHERS.

We were living in Nauvoo when I first
heard that it was right for men to have two 
wives. I never thought then of their having 
more than two; it looked an awful thing to
me, and I said that I would not believe it was
right, if an angel from heaven should tell me
so, And agian, I said that if I should hear
the Almightly tell an engle to come and tell
me it was right, I would not believe it. I knew
very well what I thought. I thought it would
only be to try my virtue, as Abraham's faith
was tried, when he was told to offer his son as a
sacrifice, and I thought the Lord would love me
better if I refused to believe in such a heinous
thing, for the Lord loves virtuous women.
	I was very busy at that time, for we were
preparing to go to the wilderness (that was
what we called it then). I do not think I had
at that time heard of the valleys of the moun-
tains, but we termed it going to the wilderness.
My daughters and I were very busy, parching 
corn, stewing squash for drying, and weaving
cloth. In all my preparations I did not have
time to go round and get the news of the day,
but Sister Thompson and Sister Carmichael
used to come and tell me what the folks were
talking about, and who of the brethren had
taken another wife. I told them not be be-
lieve a word of it for I knew the authorities
of the Church would put it down. They would
say, "You may look out, for your husband is
sure to get another." Sister Carmichael said,
"If it is so, I know William (her husband) will
take another wife, for he will do anything the
authorities tell him is right." "But," she ad-
ded, "I will go down and talk with Sister Mur-
ray about it." Sister Murray was Bro. Young's
sister. In a few days she came again, having 
in the meantime seen Sister Murray, and asked
if it was true that the brethren were taking
more wives,  to which Sister Murray had replied
that it was too true. When I heard this, I 
was perplexed; I didn not have much to say. I 
felt very serious over it, and made it a matter
of prayer.
	On the Sunday morning following, after my
husband and I were ready to go to meeting, we 
walked out through our gate, and he said, "Let
us call in at John's (his brother's); perhaps 
some of them will go to the meeting." As we
passed through the gate, all creation was
opened in vision to my view, as it seemed to me;
we were as the grass of the field. I can see
now how it looked as it ran off in the distance.
Then I saw plurality of wives, the celestial or-
der of marriage, open to my view, and knew it 
was right, and a virtuous principle, and per-
taining to the everlasting Gospel of Jesus.
Then I saw the authorities of the Church, and
what they had suffered to establish this peculiar
doctrine. It was a grand point in the Gospel,
and had to be established in this generation;
there was no getting around it, it had to come
forth. When I saw the labors of the brethren,
and their toils and sufferings, my heart was
pained for them, and I loved and pitied them.
I was no longer an opposer of  these things, but
pondered them in my heart. I realized the
beauty and glory and exaltation connected
with this heavenly principle; it was grand and
glorious, and I felt rapt in joy. I repented
of my former unbelief, and went forth and was
baptized for the remission of my sins in that
respect, though at that time I did not confess
to any person what the sin was, for the remis-
sion of which I was baptized.


It is not calling your neighbors' names that
settles a question.- Disrael.﻿


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Emmeline B. Wells,  -  -	Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, S3. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Hoorn ol the Council
House, 8onth Temple Street. Business hours from
0 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to 
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY,  AUGUST 1, 1882.


﻿DESERET HOSPITAL.
The dedication services of the Deseret Hospi-
tal were held at the building on Fifth East
Street, in this city, Monday, July 17th, at
11 o’clock a.m. Of the First Presidency of
the Church John Taylor and Joseph F. Smith,
were present, also President Wilford Woodruff
and Apostle F. D. Richards. Presidency of
Salt Lake Stake, Angus M. Cannon and Joseph
E. Taylor, Mayor of the city, Wm. Jennings,
Elders C. W. Penrose, L. John Nuttall, and
Joseph Horne. The President and officers of
the institution, also physicians in charge, mat-
ron and others. Dr. Seymour B. Young read
the programme of the services. Professor C. J.
Thomas had charge of the music. Prayer by
President Woodruff, and after singing and prayer
Dr. Young read the circular and appeal.
	President John Taylor said his sympathies
were extended to the ladies in their labors of
love for the establishment of this hospital,
where the sick of the Lord’s people could be at-
tended and have the benefit of the ordinances
of the Church as well as skilful treatment.
Accidents were numerous in these troublous
times and sickness prevalent. It was right that
we should have a place where the sick could be
efficiently tended. Several of the ladies pres-
ent had acquired a knowledge of those princi-
ples which were needful in proper attention to
the sick, which he was pleased to recognize, for
it was in accord with our religion to acquire all
useful information to deal with disease, and
physicians should not be bound by rigid rules,
but act as directed by the Lord, because there
were so many phases of the same diseases and
so much difference in the constitutions of man-
kind. At the same time we were commanded
of the Lord to “seek out of the best books words
of wisdom,” and to seek knowledge by learning.
Yet we must not forget to call in the aid of
faith, but while we acquire all the intelligence
possible to be attained, at the same time we must
exercise faith that the blessings of the Lord
might be upon our efforts. The officers of the
Association and all connected with it, had his
best wishes, and he felt that they would have
the blessing and favor of God. They should not
neglect to avail themselves of all possible sour-
ces of knowledge, but seek for it in every direc-
tion. He closed by blessing the officers, physi-
cians and attendants, and all connected with
the hospital.
	President Joseph F. Smith endorsed the re-
marks of President Taylor. This was a step
quite necessary to be taken. It was in the in-
-terest of the afflicted and the poor. He would
have been pleased if the institution could have
been started in a better place. It was but a
small beginning,  yet it was better than none at
all, and he expressed the hope that success
would attend it, and that perfect union, har-
mony and good feeling would prevail among all
who had the conduct of its affairs, so that the
good spirit of the Lord might be with them,
and that while they exercised all the skill that
was possible, they might be so sensitive to the
whisperings of the spirit of the Lord that they
would be able to obtain the power of God for the
benefit of the sick, and that they might be
guided in the channel of the best success. He
believed that the Latter-day Saints, had the
right to obtain the blessing and direction of the
Lord In all their affairs, and especially in such
labors as those for the benefit of the afflicted;
He invoked the blessing of the Lord upon the
efforts of the institution, its officers and all who
should receive the benefits thereof.
	Apostle F. D. Richards offered the dedicatory
prayer,
	President W. Woodruff coincided with what
had been said, and congratulated the sisters
upon the progress of another labor of love con-
nected with the Relief Society. That society,
like other features of the Church and Kingdom
of God, was organized to stay. He endorsed
with all his heart the principles enunciated of
looking to the Lord. We needed salvation.
Men’s ideas of medicine changed materially.
The course of practice pursued when he was a
boy would not be followed now. He related inci-
dents in illustrations of this, and showed the
necessity of the guidance of the Almighty in
the treatment of the sick. he was thankful
that we would now have a place for the treat-
ment of the afflicted, where the Elders could
walk in and freely administer the ordinance for
the healing of the sick, and he felt that this
institution would grow and increase and ac-
complish the purpose desired.
	President Angus M. Cannon was gratified
that the Sisters had been led to take the course
which had resulted in the establishment of this
hospital. They had been very faithful in their
efforts in that Relief Society which was estab-
lished by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Here was
a place where the afflicted of the Lord’s people
could be watched over in a proper way and
could be administered to by the good Samari-
tans. God had set His hand to establish Zion
in its beauty and power, and he felt that this
beginning would be looked back to as the germ
of something much greater, which would re-
flect credit upon all engaged in it. He trusted
that some extensive grounds would soon be ob-
tained. He related an incident in his experi-
ence, showing the necessity and blesssing of
reliance upon the Lord for healing of the sick.
he hoped the Institution would be sustained by
the faith and means of the people. 
	Mayor Wm. Jennings considered that this
hospital was needed in this Territory. The
Elders had done a good work. We had become
a large community, and people of all classes
were among us, also many who were afflicted
from various causes. In some of the isolated
places of the Territory there was lack of medi-
cal skill, and here was a place to which cases
might be brought for treatment which they
could not obtain where they lived. Here the
sick could be treated in a way that they could
not be among persons not of our faith. He
hoped the ladies would keep in view, as he be-
lieved they would, the fact that this hospital
was not for speculation but for relief. He hoped
this building would prove large enough for many
years to come. It would have his support, both
by his means and faith.
	Elder C. W. Penrose said there was no need
for any remarks from him concerning the objects
of this institution nor the benefits to follow from
it; these had been well set forth by those
speakers who had preceded him. He would say,
however, that the institution had his sympathy
and support, and he believed it would be suc-
cussful. Some persons might wonder why Lat-
ter-day Saints who believed in healing by faith,
needed a hospital. He showed that faith and
science were not incompatible. That, according
to the revelations of God, knowledge was to be
obtained by study and also by faith; so with the
treatment of the sick; the means ordained of
God as remedies should be used and at the same
time faith be exercised. They who had suffi-
cient faith could be healed by faith. They who
had not faith were to be nourished and treated
with proper remedies, and these, it was written,
should be used with “prudence and thanksgiv-
ing,” with judgment and skill, but "not by the
hand of an enemy.” Therefore skill should be
acquired by study. Women had always been
recognized as good nurses, but only of recent
date as skilled physicians and surgeons. He was
glad at the progress of public opinion. He con-
gratulated the ladies on the good work they had
accomplished.
 The next in order was the setting apart of the
physicians and matron by President John Tay-
lor, and Joseph F. Smith and others. Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson was blest and set apart by Prest.
Taylor, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, President Smith
officiating. Mary E. Greene Van Schoonhoven
Dispensary clerk by President Woodruff. Mary
Ann McLean, Matron, by Apostle F. D.
Richards. Benediction was pronounced by
Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.
	Mayor Jennings manifested his interest in
this benevolent institution by handing over to
the President a check for five hundred dollars.
There is every prospect of success in this humane
and much  needed enterprise if the brethren and
sisters respond to the appeal. It requires a great
exertion on the part of those engaged in this
work to establish an institution of this kind by
donation. There is everything needed, and any
donation of furniture, bedding, household uten-
sils, crockery, cutlery, etc., will be gratefully
received. It is hoped that the sisters in the dif.
ferent Stakes of Zion will feel it a pleasure and a
duty to become members of the Hospital Associa-
tion, and have their names enrolled with those
more actively engaged in this good and noble
work for the suffering and distressed.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
The quarterly conference of the Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake, convened in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, June 16, Counselor Elmina S.
Taylor, presiding, in the absence of Sister Home
who was unable to attend. After usual exer-
cises, minutes of previous Conference were read
and accepted, and twenty-three branches of the
R. S. were reported, by the Presidents, or one
of the Counselors; after which Mrs. E. S. Tay-
lor made some appropriate remarks. Singing
and benediction and Conference adjourned until
2 o’clock p.m.
	Afternoon Session: After preliminary exer-
cises, speeches were made by Sisters E. S. Tay-
lor and P. L. Kimball, on the duties of women
and the privileges of the Gospel. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney was the next speaker. She gave a most
interesting account of her experiences during
her three years, absence in the East studying
medicine and surgery, said it made her heart
ache to see the condition the world was in. She
had sought diligently to prepare herself for use-
fulness in the profession she had chosen, and
was rejoiced to be at home once more among
the Saints. 
 Dr Romania B. Pratt spoke of her few
months' absence in the East and her great joy
in returning home again; that Utah was the
dearest place on earth to her, alluded to the
great divines of the day and their preaching,
said she could realize they had not the light of
the Gospel. she went to hear Henry War


Beecher and spoke of the absurd ideas he
taught and his ignorance of the true light.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon faith and
washing and anointing of the sick; appreciated
the remarks of Dr. Pratt, as she had been placed
in similar circumstances herself.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball made a few suggestive
remarks and expressed her pleasuse in having
today physicians among our own people.
Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, in addressing the con-
gregation, spoko earnestly In reference to the
Deseret Hospital, which was being established
by the Latter-day Saints, and appealed to these
present to take an interest in this benevolent
work. She also spoke of the benefit of the
washings and anointings for the sick.
	President Wilford Woodruff spoke very en-
couraging to the sisters, both in regard to the
duties and responsibilities which necessarily
 devolve upon them and also of the adminlstra-
tion to the sick and afflicted. Referred to the
Deseret Hospital and the work of benevolence
and charity expected of the Relief Society.
Spoke of the union of man and woman in all
things and how necessary it was they should
co-operate together; the influence of mothers,
the training of children, the work for the dead
and many other interesting themes.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor then presented the subject
of the Hospital in a very earnest and effective
manner. Urged the sisters to become members
by paying one dollar annually and have their
names enrolled with those engaged in this noble
work.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze announced that the Con-
ference of Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A., would be
held next day June 17, in the Assembly Hall.
Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
lng, “The Spirit of God, etc." Benediction by
President Woodruff.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORK.
	Last Monday morning, while I was making
my toilet, I was thinking over a very beautiful
ceremony which I had witnessed the day be-
fore.  It was all fresh in my memory then, and
I wanted so much to sit down and write it all
out. But the duties of the day were before me,
the domestic duties of a wife and mother on
Monday and I had to content myself with look-
ing wistfully towards my pen, and then turn
my thoughts upon other topics.
	It occurred to my mind, that if the thousands
of wives and mothers who have rare and beauti-
ful thoughts which they would love to embody
and put on paper, but to whom the opportuni-
ties of so doing never come, should once do,
what I then thought of doing--all shut them-
selves up away from the household, away from
their outer cares and preplexitites, and commence
writing--what a shock business generally would
sustain.  I laid this thought aside also, and
went quietly about my work; remembering
that I was no longer a girl at home, with a
loving, indulgent mother and generous older sis-
ters to look after and do the work if I neglect it.
	However willing and efficient the person or
persons may be who are paid for their services
about the house, the care and responsibilities of
domestic concerns being kept in order, must rest
upon the wife and mother, if she will be faith-
ful to her calling in all things. And sometimes
they will rest heavily and feel burdensome, no
matter how hard she may try to believe that
labors of love are always sweet and light.
	But let no young woman imagine the state of
continued maidenhood preferable to taking upon
herself the important mission of a true help-
mate to man, which the great Father designed
her to fill.  Be it far from me to encourage any
such fallacy.


What if wives must work? So must every
one else; except some who shirk their real por-
tions in life, and who will be pretty sure to fall
short of their expectations in the day of rewards.
We must eat. We must be clothed. Washing
and ironing must be done for us all; and we
must work and should enjoy it, generally. And
when we have duties to perform which do not
exactly accord with our frame of mind at the
time, we must perform them with as good grace
as possible, and try to be satisfied.
	We who are constantly striving to prepare for
the great future as well as to provide for the
present, who strive to live not only for our own
good, but for the good of our fellowbeings, and
the glory of our Creator, have double or triple
work to do. And in all, we must not forget nor
neglect the practical part.
	At this season of the year, we must remem-
ber and be on hand for our wheat gathering and
storing away for future need. In this work, the
older members of our Primary Associations, if
properly encouraged and instructed, might ren-
der great assistance. They could raise beans
too, with much profit.				LULA.


A SAD EVENT.

"There is no flock, however watched and tended,
	But one dead lamb is there!
There is no fireside, howsoe'er defended,
	But has one vacant chair."

	Died in Salt Lake City, at the residence of
Major W. W. Woods, at five minutes to five
Sunday afternoon, July 23, 1882, Leslie Alma
Dunford, aged 10 years, 2 months, and 23 days.
Deceased was the son of Mrs. Woods by a former
marriage, and was born in this city April 30,
1872. He was the grandson of Bishop Newel
K. Whitney (deceased) and of Mrs. E. B. Wells.
He was a bright, active and interesting boy,
manly in his bearing and most tender and affec-
tionate in his disposition. He was spiritual in
his nature, loved to hear of heaven and the Sa-
vior, and was fondly attached to his relatives,
to whom he was ever obedient, respectful and
obliging, ready to render any little service in his
power. His death was the result of an accident
with a toy pistol, with which he was slightly
wounded in the hand on the 4th of July last.
The most careful attention was given to the
wound, which appeared to be doing well, and he
showed no symptoms of the terrible affliction
until about twelve days after the accident, when
he was attacked with lockjaw and paralysis. The
little fellow suffered inexpressible agony day
and night for a week. He was brave, patient
and uncomplaining, never murmuring even
in the most extreme pain. His mother was
constantly at his bedside, watchful and hopeful
until a short time before his death. The shock
was a severe one to her and to his little sisters,
and to all his relatives, for he was tenderly be-
loved. But he has gone where there is no more
pain, nor sorrow, nor suffering forevermore;
where the flowers he so loved and appreciated will
bloom eternally in the gardens of paradise, and
music, in which he found the greatest delight,
will fill his soul with melody and joy unspeaka-
ble. We know that he has passed from death
unto life and we should not call him back, yet
our poor human hearts will bleed for a time at
his absence, for as the poet says:

"That loss is common would not make
My own less bitter, rather more;
Too common! Never morning wore
To evening, but some heart did break."


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN the article entitled "Faith, Medicine and
the Doctor," Galius should have read Galen.


For good and sufficient reasons, we decline
for the present publishing notices of surprise
parties.
Several Primary Fairs, worthy of mention,
are not noticed in this issue, but reports will be
given in due time.
Since the publication of the Circulars of the
Deseret Hospital Association, Dr. Romania B.
Pratt has been added to the Executlve Board.
The officers of the Association have been inde-
fatigable in their labors in inaugurating this
institution.
On the 7th of August a grand concert will be
given in the large Tabernacle in this city for the
benefit of the Deseret.Hospital. The building
will be illuminnted with electric lights. The
musicians and performers all render their ser-
vices free for this important, benevolent enter-
prise, and it is ardently hoped by all those most
actively engaged in this charitable work, that
the concert will receive the patronage of the
general public. If as much means can be ob-
tained in this way as is gathered every year by
a circus In this city, the committe and all parties
Interested will consider It a grand success. Come
everybody and bring your children and friends.
Admission, twenty-five cents; reserved seats, 
fifty cents.
 MRS. R. W. Tyler writes from Beaver: “I
for one cannot express my appreciation of those
noble, good, blessed women who have stepped
forward in that much needed institution, a Hos-
pital May they live long to bless suffering hu-
manity, may their purses never be empty, and
may the gift of healing abide in that institution
established under the auspices of those mothers
in Israel. May the dews of heaven descend up-
on it, until all that come under its roof shall feel
its benign influence. My heart and my soul is
with you all in this noble work.”


A YOUNG LADY DOCTOR.

	Martha Paul Hughes, M. D., returned on
Thursday evening, July 20, from an absence of
about four years in the east, where she has been
pursuing the studies of medicine, surgery and
the sciences; thus preparing herself for a life of
eminent usefulness. Miss Hughes, better known
as Mattie Paul, left Salt Lake In September,
1878, and entered the Michigan University at
Ann Arbor. At the end of two years she gradu-
ated as M. D., and received her diploma.
She made friends among the college students,
who were willing to lend her their influence and
assistance in the practice of her profession. She
made good use of her time during vacation, and
by that means earned money to enter the State
University of Pennsylvania, from which she
graduated as a Bachelor of Science, the only
lady in the graduating class. Miss Hughes also
excelled in the National School of Elocution and
Oratory in Philadelphia, and graduated with
honors. She has prepared herself for a lecturer
and for literary work as a medical journalist, and
will undoubtedly make a success of whatever
she undertakes, if diligence, perseverance and
good natural ability will accomplish it. Miss
Hughes is a bright, intelligent, energetic and
industrious young woman. She has already
surmounted obstacles that would have daunted
many older and more experienced, proving that
she is endowed with courage to battle with and
overcome the difficulties that ever line the path
to honor and to fame. We bid the young Doctor
a warm welcome home, and trust she will use
the talents with which she is so richly endowed,
and the knowledge she has gained, for the alle-
viation of suffering and distress, and in so doing
find happiness and content.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Y. L. M. I. A. STAKE REPORTS. 
The Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement As-
sociations in all the several Stakes of Zion are
hereby earnestly requested to prepare and send
in a complete report to the Secretary of the cen-
tral board in good time, that the Territorial re-
port In full, may be handed in to the President's
Office ten days previous to the October Confer-
ence. As there has never yet been a report from
all the Stakes, it seems positively necessary to
male this official call.
ELMINA S. TAYLOR, Pres't 
LOUIE WELLS, Secretary, 
Central Board Y. L. M. I. A.


A MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
	Inasmuch as our Heavenly Father has seen
fit to take from our midst our honored mother
and sister, Margaret West, aged 77 years, who 
departed this life June 19th, 1882 after a suffer-
ing illness of four months, caused from dropsy,
we, the embers of the Snowflake Relief Society,
desire to show our appreciation and love for her, 
by sending the following resolutions of respect
to our paper, and also a copy to the R. S. of
Parowan, Iron County, Utah, where she was a 
faithful resident for twenty-seven years.
	Resolved, that we hold in sacred memory her
many virtues, both in precept and example:
such as strictly keeping the Word of Wisdom
since the year 1834, her firm integrity to the
principle of Celestial Marriage, even to the last, 
when she wiled the greater part of her property
to a plural wife rather than to her lawful heirs;
her many years of usefulness among the sick,
etc.
	Also that we strive to imitate her meekness
and patience, benevolence and uncomplaining
disposition, her economy and cheerfulness, her
wisdom, in being a woman of but few words,
and her devotedness to her God and his people. 
	She was the mother of ten children, and fifty-
six grand children, and forty-nine great grand
children, for whose sake she left ehr comfortable
home, December 3, 1878, journeying in the dead
of winter, to this new land, counting it only a 
pleasure trip. 
	During life her greatest delight was in the
tillage of the soil, and upon her coffin was placed
a sheaf of ripe wheat, encircled by a sickle, with 
the words, "She hath borne the cross, and will
wear the crown."
					WILLMIRTH EAST,
					LOIS PRATT HUNT.
					ANNA M. ROGERS,
					ELLEN LARSON,
					LUCY H. FLAKE,
					IDA F. HUNT.
	Snowflake, Apache County, Arizona, July
13th, 1882.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.

			WASATCH.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Was-
atch Stake of Zion convened on Friday, May
12th, 1882, in the Social Hall, Heber City, at
half-past 10 o'clock a.m., President Emma
Brown presiding. Present on the stand were
President Hatch, Bishops Thomas Rasband
and Wm. Forman, Elder John Jordan and a
few other brethren.
 Choir sang, Prayer by Elder John Jordan.
Choir sang. Minutes of the previous confer-
ence were read and accepted.
	Sister Brown made a few opening remarks,
and read from the Exponent an address given
by the Prophet Joseph to the Sisters of the
Relief Society in Nauvoo.
The following wards were then represented:
Sister Forman gave a report of the Relief
Society of the West Ward, Heber City. Sister
Cluff, speaking of Center Ward meetings, spoke
very highly.  Sister Taylor reported the Charles-
ton Ward.
 Bishop Thomas Rasband, President Abram
Hatch and Sister Brown each made pleasing
and instructive remarks.
The choir sang and conference adjourned till
August 11th, 1882.
Benediction by President Abram Hatch.
					ELLEN LEE, CLERK.

		NORTH OGDEN PRIMARY.
	Report of a Primary Conference, held at
North Ogden, June 7th, 1882:
Present on the stand: Eliza R. Snow Smith,
Jane S. Richards, Louie B. Felt, Josephine R.
West and others; President M. A. Wallace
presiding.
Singing, "In our Lovely Deseret." Prayer.
Singing, "We thank thee, O God, for a pro-
phet."
A poem of welcome to E. R. Snow Smith
and ladies was repeated in concert by the As-
sociation.
Minutes of the last conference were read and
approved.
 The programme was rendered, as follows:
Dialogue, "Going to Meeting," Harriet Barker
and Annie M. Storey; recitation, Orderly
Habits," Rose Brown; song, "Birdies of the
Greenwood," Ida M. Alvord and Emily Bai-
ley; recitation, Joseph Smith's First Prayer,"
Mary A. Reynolds; recitation, "We come,"
Margaret Holmes; recitation, "The Angel of
Death," Eliza A. Chadwick; dialogue, "Kind-
ness," Thomas and William Richards; song by
three girls, "The Try Company;" recitation,
"No Sects in Heaven," Elizabeth Richards;
song, "My Little Blue Apron to Fill," Nellie
Richards; recitation, "Be in Earnest," Wilson 
rose; the fourth chapter of the Bible Ques-
tions and Answers were repeated in concert by
the Association; recitation, "Lines Inscribed to
E. R. Snow," Francis Wharton; dialogue,
"Great Lives," by six boys and six girls; song,
"The Good Boy's Resolve," Wm. S. Wallace.
President Wallace made a few remarks.
Sister E. R. Snow Smith said she was happy
in meeting with the children of North Ogden;
thanked them for the welcome which they had
given her on her arrival, and made other inter-
esting remarks.
Sister Louie B. Felt, Joesphine R. West
and Jane S. Richards gave some very good ad-
vice, encouraged the children to come to their
meetings, and spoke about prayer.
Bro. Wm. S. Stowel made some excellent 
remarks.
Conference was adjourned (for three months.
Singing, "Lord grant that we in wisdom's
ways." Benediction.
		E. C. WALLACE, Secretary.
			MARY STOREY, Assistant Sec'y.

	FOUNTAIN GREEN PRIMARY.
	Yesterday was a grand gala day here for
both young and old; the occasion being the
first Primary Fair held in this place. All were
out in full force and beaming smiles. The Fair
was held in Fountain Green Social Hall, which
was freely tendered for the event.
There was a large display of articles that
were both useful and beautiful.
Confectionery.--Pies, tarts and cakes of all
descriptions. A plate of frosted pasties, by
Miss N. Holman, aged eleven, was very good;
as was also a pound of butter by Miss Rozilla
Crowther, same age.
 On the next table was a very creditable dis-
play of Knitted Goods. A pair of baby shoes,
by Miss Clara Collard, aged 11; a knitted
shawl, Miss Christine Smith, aged 12; a com-
forter of the same material, Hannah Skeen,
aged 12; a pair of hose, Miss M. Adams, aged
12, and fancy open work hose, Miss Annie
Neilson, aged 15.
 The next table or stand was devoted to
Plain Sewing, by hand. Amongst the articles
of merit was an apron, by Miss Annie Turkle-
son, aged 12, and a large variety of patchwork;
quilts and blocks, some the work of very tiny
hands. Samples by Miss E. J. Curtis, aged 5,
and several other little toddlers, about the
same age.
 Crochet Work.--A large assortment was
put forward for inspection and criticism, con-
sisting of tidies and lace of every description.
Those that deserve honorable mention in this
branch are Maria Jacobson, aged 11, Rozilla
Crowther, same age, and Miss A. Neilson, aged
15.
Sampler Work and Designs in Woll and
Zaphyr,-- on beholding which, carried us back
to the days of yore, when our mothers used to
amuse themselves in the same kind of fancy
work, Some of the designs were neat and
tasteful. The Ten Commandments, by Miss
Ada Guyman, aged 14, was a very fair speci-
men. A sample worked by Miss Annie Tur-
kleson, aged 12, was also very good.
Embroidery.-- In this department, the Misses
Caroline Otterson and S. E. Collard, aged re-
spectively 12 and 15, displayed not only good
taste, but originality of design, combined with
excellent workmanship. Hearth-rugs, ingeni-
ously contrived and put together in good taste
and style; they were made by Misses Stena
Jacobson and S. A. Aldread, aged 8 and 12.
Zephyr Flowers.-- A very large display of
wool flowers, of all hues, shapes and sizes;
some in baskets, vases and cases; all were
beautiful and well made. The little folks that
made them may well feel proud of this their
first effort.
Hair Work.-- Miss Eliza Bischoff's exhibit
was really very good.
Boys' Handiwork.-- I cannot begin to enu-
merate them, there was such a large display.
There were models of easy running wagons,
harrows of all shapes and sizes, ladders,
shovels, grindstones, and specimens of ama-
teur printing. The grindstone, by Master
Lewis Woodward, aged 12, was a very good
model. A well made square harrow, by Mas-
ter Tom Oldroyd, aged 13; model for violin, by
J. F. Wakefield, aged 10, and a whole host of
clever contrivances by the boys.
	The committee of arrangements were Mes-
dames Hannah Collard, Laura Morgan, Mary
Ann Anderson, Catherine Sorensen, Maria
Christiansen, Maria Bischoff, Jane Crowther
and Mary Guyman, assisted by Aunt Polly
Johnson, Aunt Jane Woodward and Mrs. Mer-
cie Ivry.
		Miss Annie Anderson, Secretary.
		Miss. S. E. Collard, Assistant Secy'

		VERNON PRIMARY.
	The second annual meeting of the Primary
Association of Vernon was held on the 15th of
June, 1882. We are only a small association
and too far away to unite with other wards, yet
to encourage and interest the little ones, it had
been arranged that they have a little Fair.
The childrem met at the school-house at mid-
day and partook of a bounteous dinner pro-
vided by the parents, many of whome were pre-
sent. Upwards of one hundred joined in this
exercise. After dinner the children's offerings
were placed on exhibition. All were very
pleasantly surprised to see the variety, taste
and ingenuity displayed, for though we number
but fourty-four members, we counted thirty-nine
articles on exhibition.


The afternoon was spent, after the usual ex-
ercises, in songs, dialogues, recitations, ques-
tions on different subjects, etc., etc. The Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of St. Johns,
Tooele County, and from a ward of Spring-
ville, Utah County, were present. Both spoke
very encouragingly to the children, pronounc-
ing their little efferts as quite equal to those of
Associations in other wards.
	After spending two hours in dancing, the
children were dismissed by singing "Our Own
Sunday School." Benediction by one of the
little boys.
	Financial report, beginning June 15th, 1881,
ending June 15th, 1882:
	Names enrolled, 44; average attendance, 20;
meetings during the year, 32; amount in trea-
sury from last year, $3.55; received during the
year, $7.15; total, $10.70. Disbursed to the
Salt Lake Temple, $6.50; books, $1.50; in
treasury, $2.70.
			ESTHER A. BENNION, President.
			MARY A. HICKENSON, Secretary.

MESA CITY.

	Perhaps but few are aware that we have a
Relief Society organization in this isolated
country, as but very few reports have ever been
sent from Mesa City. Our first conference was
held March 11th, and a report was prepared
and sent by our secretary, but for some reason
it never appeared in the EXPONENT. We have
quite a number of names enrolled as members, 
but have not accomplished much financially,
in consequence of but few seeming to take an 
interest in the success of our society; this
makes it rather discouraging for those who
want to be workers in the hive. But out of the
books we shall be judged. We have made a
few quilts, but in a country like this, where
the thermometer runs up to 115 degrees, the
making of bedquilts is rather an unprofitable
business. We are also making a very nice
quilt, which we design as a Temple donation,
and although there are but a few of us, we can
see that we are improving both spiritually and
temporally.
	We have a good, faithful President, who en-
deavors to perform her duties faithfully, and is
well beloved by the Society.
	We are not so highly favored as our sisters
in Utah, in having the presence, frequently, of
those true and noble sisters, Eliza R. and
Sister Zina, with their zealous co-
workers, who seem to be spending their lives
in the great and glorious work, which has been
allotted to them to show woman her true and
proper sphere in the great work of the last
days, and may the blessing of high heaven at-
tend them in their labors; and rest assured, if
any of them should ever visit this country,they
would meet with a warm welcome (perhaps
rather too warm, unless they came in the win-
ter). The EXPONENT helps to supply this
want in a great measure. We can read ac-
counts of their glorious meetings and almost
imagine ourselves there; therefore it is always
a welcome visitor. 
	Everybody enjoys this climate when they
once get accustomed to it. We have about 10
months of the most agreeable climate in the
world, to balance against about two months of
very warm weather, and even then we fre-
quently have nice cool afternoon breezes,
which serve to help us out admirably. It is a
very healthy country, which is saying a great
deal in its favor. There is not a case of sick-
ness on the Mesa, that I am aware of. 
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, I remain your sincere friend,
					SARAH M. POMEROY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 39


An evil speaker differs from an evil doere
only in the want of opportunity.--Quintilia


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect on the death of Anina
Phister, member of the 3rd Ward Primary As-
sociation of Logan City:
	As God, in His wisdom, has seen fit to call
another of His precious jewels, and as she has
labored faithfully in the performance of every
duty, we, as members of the Primary Associa-
tion, unanimously adopt the following resolu-
tions:
	First—We sincerely condole with her guar-
dians, her brothers and her sister,in this their
heavy bereavement, and we tender them our
heartfelt sympathy.
	Second—May her many virtues be emulated
by the members of our Association, so that her
noble example may stimulate others to a life of
virtue.

Farewell, Anina, we shall miss you,
But you have only gone to rest,
From all troubles and all labors,
With your parents you’ll be blest.

	Resolved, That we adopt these resolutions as
a token of respect and appreciation of her
sterling qualities, and that a copy of them be
forwarded to her guardians, and also to the
Logan Leader and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		SARAH G TARBET, President.
		ELEANOR C. COWLEY,	} Counselors.
		MARY A. TARBET,		}


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	With all the false traditions in which we
were born, and in consequence of the degener-
ate tide with which the human family have
been drifting for generations past, and as the
Lord had no organized Priesthood on the earth,
it is not to be wondered at that in our ignor-
ance of His ways the feelings of our natures
should rebel against the doctrine of a plurality
of wives. I remember how I felt, but which
would be a difficult matter to describe—the
various thoughts, fears and temptations that
flashed through my mind when the principle
was first introduced to me by my father, who
one morning in the summer of 1843, without
any preliminaries, asked me if I would believe
him if he told me that it was right for married
men to take other wives, can be better ima-
gined than told; but suffice it to say the first
impulse was anger, for I thought he had, only
said it to test my virtue as I had heard that
tales of this kind had been published by such
characters  as the Higbees, Foster and Bennett,
but which I supposed were without any foun-
dation. My sensibilities were painfully touched.
I felt such a sense of personal injury and dis-
pleasure; for to mention such a thing to me I
thought altogether unworthy of my father,
and as quick as he spoke, I replied to him,
short and emphatically, No, I wouldn’t! I had
always been taught to believe it a heinous
crime, improper and unnatural, and I indig-
nantly resented it. This was the first time that
I ever openly manifested anger towards him;
but I was somewhat surprised at his counten-
ance, as he seemed rather pleased than other-
wise. Then he commenced talking seriously,
and reasoned and explained the principle, and
why it was again to be established upon the
earth, etc., but did not tell me then that any
one had yet practiced it, but left me to reflect
upon it for the next twenty-four hours, during
which time I was filled with various and con-
flicting ideas. I was sceptical-one minute
believed, then doubted. I thought of the love
and tenderness that he felt for his only, daugh-
ter, and I knew that he would not cast her
off, and this was the only convincing proof
that I had of its being right. I knew that he
loved me too well to teach me anything that
was not strictly pure virtuous and exalting in
its tendencies; and no one else could have in-
fluenced me at that time or brought me to ac-
cept of a doctrine so utterly repugnant and so
contrary to all of our former ideas and tradi-
tions. This was just previous to his starting
upon his last mission but one to the Eastern
States. Fearing that I might hear it from a
wrong source, knowing, as he did, that there
were those who would run before they were
sent, and some would not hesitate to deceive
and betray him and the brethren, he thought it
best that I should hear it from his own lips.
	The next day the Prophet called at our
house, and I sat with my father and mother
and heard him teach the principle and explain
it more fully, and I believed it, but I had no
proofs only his and my father's testimony. I
thought that sufficient, and did not deem it ne-
cessary to seek for any further, but had I been
differently situated like many were without a
father and a mother to love and counsel me,
probably my dependence, like theirs, would
have been on the Lord, but I leaned not upon
His arm. My father was my teacher and reve-
lator, and I saw no necessity then for further
testimony; but in after years the Lord, in His
far-seeing and infinite mercy, suffered me to
pass through the rough waves of experience,
and in sorrow and affliction, I learned,
this most important lesson, that in
Him alone must I trust, and not in weak and
and sinful man; and that it was absolutely ne-
cessary for each one to obtain a living witness
and testimony for him or herself, and not for
another, to the truth of this latter-day work, to
be able to stand, and that like Saul, we “must
suffer for His name’s sake.” Then I learned
that “The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
knowledge;” and that “He is nigh unto all
those that call upon Him in truth, and healeth
the broken in heart and bindeth up their
wounds.”
	In a few days from this, my father started
for the Eastern States. My baby brother had
been very sick and was barely convalescent
when he left.
	He wrote me from Pittsburg, that was more
than forty years ago; and though his letters
are now worn and yellow with age, and the
fingers that wrote them are laid under the cold
and senseless turf, yet the sublime truths,
though taught in simple words, will never per-
ish, no, never; and often as I read them, I drop
a silent tear and am led to say:
	“I owe thee much. Thou hast deserved from me
	Far, far beyond what I can ever pay.”
	Here is a copy of the letter written me from
Pittsburg, July 10th, 1843:
	“My Dear Helen.—I still remember what I
told you when I left home, that I would write
you. You have been on my mind much since
I left home, and also your dear mother, who
has the first place in my heart, then my dear
children and brethren and sisters who have
passed through much sorrow and pain for the
cause of Christ.
	“My dear daughter, what shall I say to you?
I will tell you, learn to be meek and gentle,
and let your heart seek after wisdom, and al-
ways speak kindly to your dear mother and
listen to her counsel while you have her with
you, for there is no one that feels the care for
you that she does.  My child, remember the
care that your dear father and mother have for
your welfare in this life, that all may be done
well, and that in view of eternal worlds, for
that will depend upon what we do here, and
how we do it; for all things are sacred. God
knows my heart and how I feel for my dear
family. My prayer is that he will incline our
hearts to serve him all the days that we shall
live on the earth and our children after us
through all eternity, that none of them may


[Column 1]
ever swerve from these fixed principles of vir-
tue and to be endowed with the wisdom of God,
and to be kind and merciful to all the human
family, as far as mercy can have any claim on
the souls of men; so let our love abound. As
we measure to the human family, so it must be
crowned upon our heads, either in time or in
eternity. It is always time to do good, and as
to wrath we will measure that out as God shall
direct, and not as we will, for God says, 'Ven-
geance is mine, and I will repay.'
	"Let us seek to be true to our integrity,
wherever we shall make vows or covenants with
each other; then we have got in that narrow
way that leads to eternal life. Now let us be
careful that we do not make a breach, but let
us learn by the things that we see others suffer,
and not have to pass through them ourselves.
You have some experience, and you see others
walking through trouble and sorrow, because
those who have covenanted to be their friends
have betrayed them; for instance, look and see
what the Prophet has to pass through. This
comes upon him because of the treachery of
some who have promised to be his friends and
the friends of God. We should have no trou-
ble if it were not for such persons. They make
league with our enemies, Judas like.
	"Oh, God, save me and my posterity from
treachery, and let our hearts be filled with true
integrity and benevolence to the human family;
if we have ever varied from these principles,
forgive and give us light to walk into the light,
as thou, oh, God, art in the light. Our hearts
are known unto thee, and we desire to continue
in thee, as the branch cannot bring forth fruit
except it abide in the vine, no more can we, ex-
cept we abide in thee. Save us from our ene-
mies, and let us live long and do much good,
and see thy work prosper and spread forth on
the right and on the left, and see our enemies
fall and come to naught. Now, Father, I ask
these things in the name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.
	"I have written as it has come to me. I
think this is the first that I have written to
you. I hope it may not be the last. I hope
we shall live to see many good days, and be a 
comfort to those of our kindred who have not
yet come to the light of the Gospel as we have.
I have a longing desire to live many years and
live that life that becomes a man of my profes-
sion, which is an apostle. I hope that I may
live in honor of this title, that it may be
handed down with delight by my posterity
which shall follow me. Now, my dear Helen,pray
for your dear father, that he may have strength
to fight the fight of faith and win the prize and
come off with honor in the sight of God, angels
and men.
	"Now, Helen, study to be a comfort to all
who are connected to us by the ties of nature,
and also to those who have received the Gospel
of Christ. Be a pattern of good works, and
let your locks go down with honor. Envy no
one, though they may think they are far above
you. Now, listen with care and be meek, and
no good thing shall be withheld either in time
or in eternity, and you shall shine forth as the
sun at noon day. Seek to be a comfort to your
parents, brothers and sisters, and to your
friends and connections, and all who love our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Probably I
have said enough upon this subject at this
time.
	"My health was tolerably good till I got to
Cincinnati, then I had symptoms of chills.	*
*	*	I was introduced to a very respect-
able family by the name of Baker, who were
Baptists. They were very kind to me and my
brethren. There was an English lady living
with them as a governess to their daughters, in-
structing them in education and taught them
to play on the piano.
	"While I was there, she was taken sick and
lay nigh unto death. She told me she could

[Column 2]
not live, but told Mrs. Baker that she would
like to have me pray for her. I did as she had
requested, and went back to my room, where
I found Elder Pratt. In about twenty minutes,
she came to our door and said she was well.
She left the house and went around telling the
people what had been done. After I had gone
to bed, I was called up by Mr. Baker, as his
daughter was very sick. I laid hands upon her
and she was healed and went to sleep. She
was well in the morning, and they were all be-
lieving. I baptized Mr. Baker and his daugh-
ter before I left.
	"We reached this place on the first day of
July. I was taken with influenza. It
seemed to me I could not endure it, my lungs
were so bad; have not seen one well day since
I came here. Elder Snow took it while on the
boat, Elder Pratt also.
	"Last night I was taken with the cholera
morbus. It seemed to me as though I could
not live till morning. There were three breth-
ren with me a good part of the night..	*	*
*	If you will examine the papers, you will
find that this complaint is raging through the
East. Elder Page is sick with it. There have
been five baptized. They are a good people
here. I think we shall leave this week for
Philadelphia.	*	*	*	We are very
sorry that Elder B. Young does not come on.
	"We have had some hints that Brother Jo-
seph is taken with another writ. I wish that I
could know.	*	*	*	I expect that
I shall find a letter at Philadelphia and get
the news.
	"I received a letter from your mother by
Phineas, and was glad to get it. I have read
it until it is almost worn out. Will write to
her in a few days; have not been able to write
before for some time; my head was so dizzy
and I felt very poorly. I wrote one to Wil-
liam, and hope that he has received it. Tell
your mother to write without fail.	*	*
*	I hope to soon hear from poor William.
How I long to hear from my dear family, for I
love them with a perfect love, and there is no
other thing that could induce me to leave
them but the cause of Christ. That is all to
us, for it is our meat and our drink to do the
will of the Father in heaven.
	"Now my dear child, be humble, and pray
for your dear parents, that they may have
strength to win their way through with honor
and integrity before God, angels and men; that
we may be crowned together in the eternal
worlds, where we shall never part, where pain
and sorrow and grief shall not be known;
where we can enjoy the society of our dear
children and friends throughout all eternities.
	"Now, Helen, kiss your dear mother for me,
and tell her to kiss the dear little babe for me.
I can hardly think of him without weeping. I
received the little lock of hair she sent me
and carry it in my pocket.	*	*	*
Give my love to Bishop Whitney and family,
and to Sarah Noon. Tell her to be of good
cheer, and also Brother and Sister Billings,
and all that inquire for me.
	"If you should see President Smith,give my
kindest love to him. I hope that he is not in
the hands of his enemies; if so, God will deliver
him.	*	*	*
	"My everlasting love to your dear mother
and the children.
	"As ever, your dear father in Christ to his
daughter in Christ,
	"HEBER C. KIMBALL."


40 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Never part without loving words to think of
during your absence. It may be that you will
not meet again in life.—Richter.

	Lost patience is never found again. You
may be patient next time, but the spoken word
cannot be called back—not with prayers and
tears.


Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO’S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEA SDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linsey,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans, 		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 11.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1882. 			NO. 6.


OUR GOD IS GREAT, AND NATURE IS
			HIS PROPHET.
Nature! glorious nature! ’tis of thee I love to sing,
And thy stupendous “changes,” how lovingly I ring;”
Well might the unenlightened, but the still adoring soul
Before thy Godly presence, bow down without control,
The child of God thou truly art, his image thou dost bear,
His handmaid, his beloved one! on earth, his chosen heir;
In all thy footprints, God is seen, and in thy beauteous
	hand,
And in thy smile, and fostering care, as witness thou
	dost stand
Of Him, the great Creator of all the eye beholds,
And all the starry worlds above, that the firmament
	unfolds.
Creator of all human-kind, in whom He doth declare
His image, both in form, and mind, eternally is there.
Oh! glorious nature! thou hast been a loving nurse to me
And ever fed, and filled my soul with glowing extacy!
In soft, low whisp’rings thou hast taught my craving
	soul to learn
The Alpha and Omega of a language that doth burn
Into the heart and brain of those, who with an ear attent,
Wait, ever listening to catch the message daily sent;
Its ministering aids are those that wait on nature’s call
It may come in the cataract, or in the cascade fall,
It may be written on the vault of Heaven’s ethereal blue
It may come in the starry night, when worlds appear
	to view;
It may come in the Summer rain, or in the zephyr breeze,
It may come in the running streams, or the language of
	the trees;
It may be in the flowers, the poets, nature names
For mirth, and galas, and alas! for solemn requiem
	claims;
In the oceans’ roar, or on the land, or in the ambient air,
Voices are heard by listening ears, yes, voices everywhere
The artillery of Heaven, ’tis grand to sit and hear,
With holy awe, and holy charm, but not one pang of
	fear!
It seems the voice of God to us, but not in lettered word
As when on some important deed the cannon’s voice is
	heard.
Yes! nature is a Bible—of beauty, love and dread,
An open book, upon whose leaves our Father can be
	read;
His God-like presence broods around, his voice too, we
	can hear,
From which in Eden’s garden Adam "hid himself" for
	fear!
May we so live that every day our hearts are joyful
	made,
And walk the earth and hear his voice, yet never feel
	afraid;
For oh! so much of love is seen, so much of care dis
	play’d
For all the denizens of earth, how can we be afraid?
The Druids worshiped ln their groves, in one of nature’s
	Fanes
A temple reared to nature’s God, without man’s aid or
	pains.
And even in this “polish’d age” methinks ’tis sweet to
	stand
Upon the silent mountain top with upraised eye and
	hand,
And feel there’s naught dividing us from Heaven’s eter-
	nal blue,
But only that ethereal veil that hides Him from our
	view.
Oh earth! I love thee, as a child loves home, and all
	that’s there!
My mother earth! thou art to me, the fairest of the fair.
And when within the sacred Book, we see thy future,
	grand,
It causes both the heart and brain to joyfully expand;
And realize how well content we’ll be with such a home,
All purified, and glorified, where God and Christ will
	come,

And visit with the ransom’d Saints, and with the Kings
	and Priests;
Whom they, the righteous, have redeemed from death,
	and sin released.
When all creation will pass thro’ a new immortal birth
The holy book says newness, both to Heaven and to
	earth,
Then NATURE, empress of the earth, all glorified shall be
And never more within her hand the dreadful rod we’ll
	see;
But in her sweetest, holiest moods, with aspect all be-
	nign,
She’ll wield her sceptre but in love, to weld and to
	combine;
No jarring elements will then,discordant wound the ear,
But “peace on earth, good will to man” be nature’s
	chanticle er.
August 4th.					HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
LETTER ON PLURAL MARRIAGE.

Miss Esther M. Parker, Greenville, Penn.
	Dear Cousin: Although I so recently
answered your last letter, I trust you will
grant me pardon for thus unceremoniously ad-
dressing you again, but as I only merely
touched upon the course our enemies are pur-
suing against us as a people, I wish to give
you a few of my views on the subject, not as a
retort to the many vile and libelous slanders so
widely circulated about us, but to tell you
truths as I know them. When I see men,
who are, or should be, placed by the voice of
the people at the head of the government, so
far lose sight of their duties as guardians of
the constitutional laws of this great Republic,
as to enact special legislation to deprive a por-
tion of her children (no matter how few) of
the inalienable right to worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their own consciences
and then seek to rob them of the greatest
boon given to man to protect him in his liberty
as a responsible being, the right of franchise,
I cannot hold my peace. This right was be-
queathed to us by our forefathers who suffered
untold privation, fought, bled and many of
them died for their country's cause, while our
foremothers labored in poverty and distress at
home, bearing the deep mental anguish of
heart that none but true, patriotic wives and
mothers could bear, it kindles the fire of old '76
in my blood, which I am ever proud and happy
to say runs through my veins as uncontamin-
ated, as when in the veins of my veteran father,
who bore arms in the war of 1812. He ever
taught his children that the spirit of our
glorious constitution was heaven-born; and that
God inspired Columbus to the discovery of
this continent, and had reserved this land for
the express purpose that our Pilgrim fathers
and mothers might find an asylum from perse-
cution; but what a fearful digression from the
standard of justice and right that a Washing-
ton and his compeers so devotedly erected,
when clergymen, politicians, and the press all
claim, that they now are taking action against
us because we believe and practice polygamy.
	Now my dear cousin this is not true, al-
though they fain would make it appear so to
the nations abroad, and thus deceive many
otherwise well-meaning people of our own
nation, for well do I remember the time in
the year 1833 when my father and
brothers were hunted day and night by our
enemies, and only saved their lives by conceal-
ment, while my mother with a large family of
little children in connection with many others

[Column 2]
in like condition, was driven into the wilds of
the frontiers by a mob whose faces were paint-
ed as black as Ethiopians—and this at the
point of the bayonet, from Jackson Co., Miss-
ouri, barefooted through the crusted snow cut-
ting our feet until our path was a trail of blood
and however much we may deplore the fact
this mob was led and urged on by a divine,who
a few Sabbaths before had professed to be a
follower of the meek and lowly Jesus. Was
this because of our belief in polygamy? No,
truly no: for the principle of plural marriage
was not then known or even heard of in our
Church. Why then did they become so in-
furiated against us? I know no other reason
than that the angel, which John the revelator,
saw flying in the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting Gospel to preach to them that dwell
on the earth, had come and fulfilled that mis-
sion by appearing to Joseph Smith, the great
modern prophet, and giving him authority to
preach the Gospel as did Jesus and his Apostles
when on the earth; and it come so opposite to
their preconcerted creeds, that they sought to
destroy it, by persecuting the Church of God.
And that same spirit that caused them to do
so then, is now most assuredly urging them on
to deeds of great wrongs.
	As you are aware by my former letter to
you that I am a firm believer in and do sustain
the principle of plural marriage—the celestial
law or higher order of marriage, which not
only unites husbands and wives for time but
for all eternity, which last clause is the crown-
ing point for all. I will explain more fully, if
possible, my reason for so doing, and being a
firm believer in the Bible, I will take that as
my guide. I find by searching its pages where
God said to Abraham the father of the faith-
ful, (in whose bosom all good Christians are
praying to repose) "I will bless them that bless
thee and curse them that curse thee, and in
thee shall all families of the earth be blessed;"
Now this we understand is the promise pertain-
ing to Christ the Redeemer, who should come
and be crucified to atone for the sins of the
world, that as many as would hearken to his
word, might be brought back into the presence
of God; also in Galatians, "Now to Abraham
and to his seed were the promises made," and
He saith not unto seeds as of many, but as of
one, and of thy seed which is Jesus Christ,
and all who read the Bible know that Abraham
had more than one wife. Again I find the
same promise made of Christ that he should
come through the seed of Jacob; a man hav-
ing four wives, and of these plural wives came
the twelve patriarchs, whose names John the
revelator tells us are to be written on the
twelve gates of the holy city, even the new
Jerusalem. In Kings I read that David was
a man after God's own heart, and through his
loins a chosen seed should be raised up even
Jesus Christ the Redeemer. The Apostle Paul
in his day tells the people how the Lord said,
I have found the son of Jesse a man after
mine own heart which shall fulfill all my will,
of this man's seed hath God, according to
promise, raised unto Israel a Savior, Jesus.
Isaiah confirms the same by telling us, in
that day there shall be a root of Jesse which
shall stand as an ensign for the people, to it
shall the Gentiles seek and his rest shall be
glorious. Now I learn from the Bible that
Jesse, the father of David, was the son of Ruth
the plural wife of Boaz and that David his
son had many wives, yet in nothing did he dis-


[Column 1]
please the Lord only in the case of Uriah and
his wife. In Revelations it says one of the
Elders said unto me "weep not behold the lion
of the tribe of Judah hath prevailed to open
the book and loose the seven seals thereof. I
am Alpha and Omega the beginning and the
end; the first and the last. Again he says "I
am the root and the offspring of David the
bright and morning star, which makes it very
plain to my understanding that God had great
respect for those who believed and practised
plural marriage, and indeed preferred that
lineage for his holy son Jesus to come through,
and as he is the root of David, who was a man
after God's own heart, it becomes a most pos-
itive proof to me that Jesus Christ, is the
chief-corner stone and author of this principle;
therefore understanding and believing the
Bible as I do, reason and my own conscience
forces me not only to adopt the principle of
plural marriage in my faith, but I must prac-
tise the same. I also read in John, Chapter 8,
where our blessed Savior says, "if ye were
Abraham's children you would do the works
of Abraham." In Luke he says, there shall
be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you
shall see Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and all
the prophets in the kingdom of God, and ye
yourselves cast out. But this is not all, as I
have previously told you by letter. God has
commanded us through Joseph Smith, our
martyred prophet, that we must obey this law,
as did his ancient servants and handmaidens
that we may become one with him, or where
He dwells we cannot come. For us as a people
to ignore or set aside this principle would be
to incur the displeasure of an offended God.
I know those who are calling for special legis-
lation against us, say plural marriage is de-
generating and debasing, but I refer you to
where Jesus said to his disciples, "verily I say
unto you that ye which have followed me in
the regeneration, when the Son of man shall
sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit
upon the twelve thrones judging the twelve
tribes of Israel: Now let me ask what is this
regeneration he speaks of? Is it the mode of
doing away with the patriarchial order of
marrying more wives than one? No, that
cannot be for Jesus says himself, that a house
divided against itself cannot stand. And he
would thereby destroy himself for He was
born of that peculiar lineage; and all mankind
would thus be left without a Redeemer, and
therefore lose their salvation, then of necessity
in order to follow him in the regeneration and
become one with him we must be adopted into
the same lineage, and to the works of Abraham
and those to whom the promise of Christ was
given.
	The anti-polygamists say there are no true
homes where polygamy is practised. What a
strange contradiction in sinful man, praying
Congress to enact laws to tear our family ties
asunder, thereby casting hundreds of faithful,
virtuous wives and their children on a cold un-
feeling world, branding them with disgrace
and illegitimate birth, and at the same time
praying God that when they die he will take
them to Abraham's bosom,—Abraham who
was in every sense of the word a practical
polygamist. "O, consistency thou art a jewel"
It is also asserted by our enemies in Utah that
we are an oppressed people, by priestly domin-
ance and power; and that the women of Utah
are ignorant and down trodden, living in a
state of slavery and serfdom to their husbands
and the priesthood. This, dear cousin, is,
believe me, all false, and those who declare it
know in their hearts it is not true. There may
be homes that are not happy ones, and some
women who are tyrannized over by their hus-
bands. Let me ask you are there not similar
instances in other denominations, both in our
own country and abroad? If not we most
heartily congratulate them. But if there is

[Column 2]
such a condition of affairs near their own fire-
sides we would advise them to give heed to the
words of Jesus; "Pluck the beam out of thine
own eye that thou mayest see clearly to take
the mote out of thy brother's eye (or sister's as
the case may be.) It is also claimed by our
oppressors that the right of franchise for the
women of Utah is monopolized for partisan
purposes. This is also untrue. I have cast
my vote at every election in the proper place
and at the proper time ever since the privilege
was granted in 1870, and I can truthfully de-
clare I have never been instructed in regard to
my choice of candidate, neither have others of
our Church. I have read histories of the
nations from the first period of man's existance
on the earth, to the present time and I fail to
find anywhere on the pages of history, in any
age of the world where women have stood on a
higher plane or broader basis of liberty and
virtue than do the women of Utah, religiously,
socially and politically.
	With the deepest regard for the rights of
humanity, I subscribe myself as ever,
			Your sincere friend,
					NANCY ARETE CLARK.
Farmington, Utah
	Feb, 19, 1882.


42 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER TO A FRIEND.

ON THE DEATH OF A BELOVED BROTHER.

	Dear MOURNING FRIEND—I have just re-
ceived the letter that tells me of your loss; and
of your sorrow for the same; and at once, I sit
down to say whatever a sympathizing heart
may dictate, and make palpable on this paper,
that though far away you may realize that I
am near, and desire to offer a few words of con-
dolence that may soften your grief on the
removal of your dear brother from this stage
of action; he had been a great sufferer, and
there was no hope of a restoration to health,
and vigor; then we may rest assured he was
taken in love; "He is not dead but sleepeth."
Will you put on mourning apparel, and black
scarf for him, who is now covered with a glori-
ous attire of joy and gladness, who is adorned
with raiments as white as the unsunned
snow? I know by my own experience, that
Nature is imperative in her demands in such
sad moments, and she has a just right to her
dues, and when these are paid, revelation steps
in, and pointing up to the glorious mansions to
which he has attained, gently but forcibly bids
the eye to cease its weeping, the heart to quiet
its agonized throbbing; to dwell upon the love
that has released a suffering being, to place it
in joy and peace ineffable! it unfolds the vision
of our mind, and we see our beloved released,
from a suffering body, and emerging into a
higher life; renewed, invigorated with every
faculty expanded and increased in a ratio,
that our finite understandings cannot compute.
He is reunited with all the loved ones gone
before him. Above all, your mother! your
beloved, and most venerated mother—one you
all so richly appreciated, imagine their reun-
ion, both glorified and immortal beings, and
finding himself in a place where God is most
especially present. Though it may be, not yet
admitted into the immediate presence of the
great "I AM" but he, and all that blessed
throng have received a fulness, according to
their capability of receiving and enjoying, and
are in a state of eternal progression, happiness
and love. Longfellow beautifully says—and
he often puts a volume in a sentance.

"There is no death! what seems so is transition,
	"This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life elysian,
	"Whose portal we call death!"

	His poems all breathe of an inspired spirit

[Column 2]
teeming with intuition! and ever practical and
healthy; but it takes a poet to discern all the
blessed influences they contain. They are in
truth,

"Songs that have power to quiet
	The restless pile of care,
And come like a benediction
	That follows after prayer;"

Shall I say more? Words sound vain in scenes
of deep affliction, silence then seems eloquent.
We conquer best when we fight the battle of
life alone. We like David, when going to
fight Goliah have our own armor, another's does
not fit us.
	Our heart says in deep sorrow to the
choice and valued friend, don't speak, but
grasp my hand, with the grip of love and truth,
and strength will be infused by the sacred
touch of heaven-born friendship. Would I
were near to comfort you, but by the penning
of this letter you will see that my spirit was
with you in your grief; and who shall dare to
deny that by some propelling power—the dem-
onstration of which at this time we are very
ignorant of, and at best "see through a glass
darkly," who shall say that the spiritual breath-
ings of a sympathetic spirit, is not conveyed
instantly to its kindred, and congenial co-
spirit? and throws over it a soothing, com-
forting, enlightening influence in the hour of
trial, and gloom. When we have before our
eyes, what the mind of man, by the inspiration
of the Almighty has accomplished in this our
day, when by aid of steam, and wire, and
electricity, knowledge, has almost become
omniscient, and we can make known our wants
and wishes, thousands of miles distant, not only
on the surface of the land, but side by side
with the gulph stream of the mighty oceans;
the wire conveys the wishes, and demands the
sympathizing sentence, the telling of which
carries balm to many a broken heart, or car-
ries the secret affairs of nations to its expecting
ally. Can we then have the least possible
doubt that the Telegraphs of the eternal worlds
are not millions of times more efficient than
our terrestrial apparatus? Though beautiful,
and admirable they are but as the toys of
children to the accomplished mechanic! me-
thinks that the glorious operatives of the
empyreum smile with delighted aproval, when
they behold the attempts of the children of
earth, to make this terrestrial globe a worthy
footstool for the Creator and fashioner of the
same. By the whisperings of the spirit of
truth, much is made known to the listening
car of the truth seeker.
	My friend, in this your hour of darkness
and trial, may the light and truth of heaven
dawn upon your mind. I shall not apologize
for leading you a few steps into the paths of
science, by which the Christian can draw
analogy that opens the illumined volume of
eternity, and enables him, or her, to rise above
all terrestrial things, which are merely "suburbs
of the life elysian."
	I here lay aside the letter and would as a
postscript, now we are on the subject of death,
remark upon the many great ones of the world
and also some of our own venerated ones
among whom death has, within a few short
years made such havoc; the last two or three
years have been notable for the death of not-
able ones; and in the last few months Carlyle
Emerson, Longfellow and George Eliot, have
as if by consent passed away. I must make a
few of my sentiments palpable regarding these
"honored dead," but now I feel my Editor will
say Quantum Sufficit.
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, July 24th, 1882.


Justice is on the side of woman suffrage.—
William H. Seward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PLEA FOR OUR KINDRED.

When the prison doors were open,
	And the Savior entered there
They beheld the joyous token
	Who had long lain in despair, 

Oh, what pity filled his bosom!
	How his heart yearned to redeem!
They who scoffed the Prophet Noah
	Perished in the world's great stream.
How their elder brother loved them!
	There he went from off the cross
Bearing love and mercy with him,
	Anxious to repair their loss.

Faith, repentance and baptism,
	He proclaimed to every one
Simple though the message given
	He the same himself had done. 
	*	*	*	*	*
Though we're robed in gilt and purple
	Silk and scarlet deck our form
Will it cause our God to love us,
	While our kindred are forlorn?
Witing for the rising temples
	That our substance should adorn.
Salt Lake City, July 24th, 1882.
								M.L.M.


A ﻿REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
Continued.
Mrs. Horne has ever been an active worker
in beneyolent directions for the public good.
She was a member of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, and there gained some knowledge,
through the teachings of the prophet Joseph,
concerning the mission of woman in this dispen-
sation,therefore when President Brigham Young
effected a reorganization of the Relief Society-
in the several wards of Salt Lake City she was
well prepared to take hold of the work under-
standing. In the first organization of the
fourteenth ward in this city, in the Spring of
1857, Mrs. Horne was set apart as a Counselor
to the President of the Relief Society, Mrs.
Phoebe Woodruff.  In this capacity she lab-
ored diligently and faithfully until the time of
the move South, when the Society was no lon-
ger able to operate as an organized body.  On
the 15th of October 1857, another babe, a
little girl, was added to the happy household,
making the eighth daughter.  Of these boys
and girls now grown to manhood and woman-
hood we shall have more to say towards the
close of this brief history.
 In April, 1858, President Young notified
Mrs. Horne to prepare to go South as far as
Parowan—Mr. Horne had been previously
called to go in to Southern Utah to assist in
developing the cotton interests in Dixie.  This
was at the time of the vacating of the city
when Johnston’s army had been sent to sub-
due the “Mormons.”’ Think of the many
families who left the homes they had labored
so hard to make in this new and desolate land;
and how many women with little ones around
them were obliged to go out from homes, taking
only the bare necessaries of household comforts,
and take once more to the tents and wagons
for shelter!  Mrs. Horne had a family of ten
children and only two boys old enough to ren-
der much assistance.  The children were not
very well supplied with clothing for a journey
of that kind, and one of the twin daughters
was just recovering from a severe atack of in-
flamation of the lungs; but nothing daunted
Mrs. Horne was mistress of the situation, and
set to work in earnest, making the necessary
preparations for the journey.  This sacrifice of
home under such peculiarly trying circum-
stances was one of the severest trials (Mrs.
Horne says) of her life. 
	The distance was two hundred and fifty miles,
and everything was in readiness  start by
the first of May.  She bade adieu to her pleas-
ant home with a cheerful heart, relying upon
God for protection for herself and children,
knowing not whether she should ever see her
home again.  This heroic mother took her
babe six months old in her arms and drove in
a light wagon the entire distance.  She had
her four youngest children in the same con-
veyance, the eldest of them but four years old.
What will surprise our readers, especially those
outside of the “Mormon” Church, was that
she took her husband’s other family in the
same wagon with herself.  One can form some
idea of the elevation of character necessary to
rise above every feeling of selfishness under
such circumstances as these were.  It took
some time to reach Parowan in this way, stop-
ping to rest the teams and make calculations
to camp where there was feed for the horses
and cattle, and the family reached their destin-
ation about the first of June, among strangers
and homeless; but Mrs. Horne soon made friends,
Br. Edward Dalton and family were most kind
in allowing her the freedom of their house to
cook and eat; which was a great accomodation
in a time like that, and soon after her husband
came up from the Dixie country to visit them
and built two small board rooms for them.
Meantime Mrs. Horne earned enough by tak-
ing in sewing to make her little flock of child-
ren comfortable.  It may he wondered how in a
time of such scarcity, she could supply cloth-
ing for her family by taking in sewing.  Some
Saints had just arrived in Parowan from San
Bernardino, loaded with goods, and in need of
help to make up clothing, and Mrs Horne glad-
ly availed herself of this opportunity.  Her
eldest son, the only one old enough to
render much assistance, returned to Salt Lake
and was detained to assist in putting in late
crops, so she was obliged to do without his help.
In September, word reached the Saints who
had gone South that difficulties had been so
far adjusted that all who wished might return
home.  She received the news gladly, and
sold what she could of the household fur-
niture she had gathered around her, and en-
gaged a man to help load up, and to drive one
of her teams.  Mrs. Horne arranged every-
thing in the best possible manner, bade good-
bye to her kind friends in Parowan and joy-
fully started for home about the middle of Sep-
tember.  She drove one of the teams with her
babe in her arms, as she had on the former
journey, the man drove the other and the
children took turns in driving the cows. Mrs.
home is be thoroughly efficient a business
woman, that she knows when others fulfill their
responsibilities as they ought, and she soon
ascertained that the man’s services she had en-
gaged were of little value—in fact she felt
she would have been better off without him.
The journey home was tedious and hard and
when she arrived in Payson the man she had
employed decided to remain there, so her
own little boys drove the team and the girls
drove the cows.  They got along very well
until they reached American Fork, when the
wind started blowing furiously and beat direct-
ly in their faces, during the forepart of the
day, making it almost impossible to travel.  In
the afternoon the wind went down and rain
fell heavily.  Night overtook them at Little
Cotton Wood, and it was impossible to proceed
any further in the storm so this courageous
mother with only her little children and teams
encamped for the night by the side of the
road.  They could not light a fire it was so
wet and the little folks were hungry, sleepy
and uncomfortable.  Mrs. home says: “I hope
I shall never have to pass another such a night.
Our wagons leaked and the rain wet every-
thing in them.  I guarded my children the
best I could during the night, and emptied
dish after dish of rain water which I caught.
But as every difficulty has an end so had this
one.” At daylight they started on their
journey and arrived in Salt Lake City in time
to partake of breakfast in their old home; re-
turning heartfelt thanks to the Father for his
protecting care upon the journey and their
safe return.  Mrs. Horne took such a severe
cold in the storm that she suffered from neu-
ralgia in the face for the next three months.
She had a hard struggle to get along with her
family and all the domestic work after her
return, as she was constantly in pain and with-
out any help, but she managed to live and
take care of her little ones; though the burden
must have been a very heavy one.  She had
however the assistance of her son Henry whom
she found in Salt Lake on duty when she re-
turned home.  Late in the fall of that year
Mr. Horne returned from his Southern mission.
Perhaps some idea may be gathered from the
foregoing, of the fortitude and faith of “Mor-
mon” women under trying circumstances—
and while their husbands and often their sons
are engaged in public duties in the Kingdom,
in various fields of labor or upon missions
abroad, preaching the Gospel to the nations of
the earth.  Who can read the foregoing and
not feel that Mrs. Horne’s mission, though of
a home nature, was not as important a one in
every sense of the, word, requiring not only
great moral courage and business tact, but
great faith and trust in Him, who rides upon 
the storm and tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb.
To be Continued.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The torture of a bad conscience is the he o
a living soul.—Calvin.

	No way has been found for making heroism
easy, even for the scholar. Labor, iron labor,
is for him. The world was created as an audi-
ence for him; the atoms of which it is made
are opportunities.—Emerson.

	FLOWERS.—Much of the poetry of life
springs from flowers! How delicate a pleasure
it is to twine the orange blossom or japonica for
the bride, to arrange a bouquet for the invalid,
or to throw simple flowers in [-]ip of child-
hood!

	FALSE DIGNITY.—True dignity does not
scorn amusement. The man or woman who
thinks innocent pastime foolish, has yet a les-
son in good sound common sense to learn.
Playfulness is by no means inconsistent with
dignity and self-respect, Punch once said:
“Men and women have died of dignity;” he
meant false dignity.

	PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.—Boccaccio was
thirty-five years old when he commenced his
studies in polite literature. Yet he became
one of the three great masters of the Tuscan
dialect, Dante and Petrarch being the other
two. There are many among us ten years
younger than Boccaccio, who are dying of en-
nui and regret that they are not educated to a
taste for literature, supposing that they are too
old.

	No advanced thought, no mystical philoso-
phy, no glittering abstractions, no swelling
phrases about freedom, not even science with
its marvelous inventions and discoveries, can
help us much in sustaining this republic; still
less can godless theories of creation, or any in-
fidel attempts to rule out the Redeemer from
His rightful supremacy in our hearts, afford
any hope of security. That way lies despair.
—R. C. Winthrop.


44 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	AUGUST 15, 1882.


[Column 1]	
	THE POLITICAL SITUATION.

	The present condition of political affairs in
Utah is certainly peculiar.  The Utah Commis-
sioners appointed by the President of the United
States, in accordance with the provisions of the
Edmund's bill, were too slow in coming her to
regulate the August election of the current year,
and consequently some of those who are so
anxious about the people of this little Territory,
felt something must be done.  They were not
willing to let well enough alone, when all was
peace and quiet, and allow the men who had
filled the several offices creditably and efficient-
ly continue until an election could be held ac-
cording to the provisions already made by the
statutes of Utah, and so communicated with
Congress upon the subject and stirred that hon-
orable body up to do something before the ad-
journment.  Pursuant to the request of the
Judges who, of course, were supposed to know
the real needs of Utah, Congress invested the
Governor of the Territory with power, to ap-
point men, to fill such offices, as would be, as
they considered, made vacant, by failure to
hold the August election.  However in limiting
the tenure of office, of men so appointed, to
eight months; it appears a great mistake has
been made, by those who should be thoroughly
acquainted with the laws of election in this
Territory, as no provision is made for any other
regular election except in August, save the
election for delegate to Congress in November.
Without elaborating upon the matter of the
term of these appointees of Governor Murray,
one may perhaps be permitted to give an opin-
ion concerning the authority invested in Gov.
Murray to act in this most important, on might
say vital matter.  This supremacy given to one
man over one hundred and fifty thousand people,
is utterly at variance with all the true principles
of a free government.  A free Republic, accord-
ing to the definitions given by the greatest
statesmen that America could ever boast, is a
government "by the people for the people."
Gov. Murray may be considerate and act with
great wisdom and prudence, but what does he
know of the people, their needs and wishes over
whom he has been authorized to exercise such
wonderful power.  The Governor has a splendid
opportunity now to manifest that nobility of
character that men in high positions should pos-
sess, or at least cultivate, in order to gain the
love and admiration of the people; although he
may esteem the regard of this people, their
prayers and blessings of little value, yet they
might be a richer mine of genuine wealth than
all he will ever receive from the public treasury
of the nation.
	It would be well for those who are so exercised
over Utah affairs to stop and consider, before
they enter the lists in a political campaign
against the people who wrested these desert
lands from barrenness and made them teem with
plenty for man and beast.

			[Column 2]
	There is no person unless the spirit of pro-
phecy was given him can tell what will be the
result of this adverse legislation being put in
operation here in this Territory.  It is too serious
a subject to make light of, and those who have
labored so diligently and continuously in making
Utah habitable and desirable, who have endured
hardships no tongue can tell, in settling the
waste places, need the wisdom of heaven to
help them in this emergency, that they speak
no evil, that they do nothing to bring them un-
der the condemnation of the Almighty.  "God
moves in a mysterious way his wonders to per-
form," and no doubt it is all in the great pro-
gramme, only we have not been permitted to
see what was to be done; until the time came
for this scene to be enacted.  However it is well
known to the L. D. Saints thaht God's hand is
over his people and He will protect those who
trust in Him and abide in his laws.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE were gratified to see as a motto for the
"Utah Journal," a new publication just issued
in Logan, these words, "The highest possible
liberty to man and woman." This promises
well, and we have no doubt the paper will be an
efficient help in all the various directions for the
benefit and elevation of all who peruse its
pages.
	The programme was exceedingly well ren-
dered, and the best of order was kept although
the meeting was long and the day was unusually
warm. It is gratifying to see the great improve-
ment that is being made through these Associa-
tions. Our visit to Pleasant Grove will be en-
graved upon the mind, in consequence of the
representation made by the children.
	ON July 18, ult. Sister E. R. S. Snow and E.
C. Clawson attended the annual meeting or
Conference of the Primary Associations of West
Jordan. The Association is under the presidency
of Mrs. Eliza Bird. There were about two hun-
dred children present, and the exercises were
very well rendered, reflecting great credit upon
all those who have the care of these little ones
as well as the children themselves. Following
is the programme: Select reading by Daniel
Wright; recitation, Emma J. Merrit; Song,
Annie and Mary Naylor; Essay, Solon Richard-
son; Articles of Faith in concert, 'Sarah A. And-
erson, Sarah J. Anderson, Rosetta Bennet,
Emily Egbert and Carrie Gardner; dailogue'
Isacc Wardle and Neil Anderson; Essay, Re-
becca Goff; Questions and Answers on the Res-
toration of the Gospel by, Archibald Haun, Jos
eph Goff, Albert Smith, James, Mary and
Francis Goff; Dialogue, Naomi Goff and Rhoda
A. Turner; recitation, David Haun.

	ON Monday July 31, a special meeting of
the Primary Association was held in the 21st
Ward meeting house, Mrs Mary Davis presiding.
Bishop Burt and other brethren of the Ward
were present. A number of lady visitors were
present by invitation, and addressed the child-
ren, after they had finished their exercises.
The children kept very good order. The singing
and reciting was all well done, and spoke well
for those engaged in the entertainment. Inter-
esting remarks were made by Mrs. Zina D. H-
Young, Ellen C. Clawson, Emmeline B. Wells,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Romania B. Pratt, and
Louie Felt.

	UNION Ward Relief Society held its annual
meeting on Thursday August 8, in the Ward
house, Mrs. Elizabeth Richards presiding,
Bishop Phillips and Counselor Terry, also
other brethren were present. Visitors from
Salt Lake Sisters M. I. Horne, H. M. Whitney

[Column 2]
and E. B. Wells. The annual report was read
by the Secretary, showing what had been done
during the past year, which was very creditable
indeed. The business seems to be conducted in
the most economical and and thorough manner.
After the sisters had finished speaking, Bishop
Phillips made a few remarks, upon several sub-
jects of interest, also alluded to Job and his suf-
ferings, and compared his condition to that of any
who think themselves sorely aggrieved and af-
flicted nowadays. All seemed to feel well and
enjoy a good spirit.

	THE first regular monthly meeting of the
board of directors of the Deseret Hospital, was
held in the reception room of the building on
Monday, August 7, at eleven a. m. Considerable
business was transacted, and arrangements
made for systematic work. Already eleven cases
have been registered there besides some out
door patients. The preliminary work of inaug-
urating this institution has been more arduous
than the general public are likely to have im-
agined. The earnestness and determination of
the ladies is most admirable. Great credit is
due to the several committees, who have so ably
performed their portion of work, especially the
canvassing committee, whose duties are of a
very delicate nature. There is still a great deal
to be accomplished, and more remains,for it is a
stupendous undertaking for women without
means of their own, and depending upon the
liberality of the people, and the several organiza-
tions. It is hoped that all Latter-day Saints will
feel to sustain the movement, it is certainly a
laudable enterprise, and one that will require
patience, diligence, an abundance of faith and a
large amount of money to make it permanently
successful.

	THE annual meeting of the Relief Society of
Pleasant Grove, was held on the 3rd of August,
in the meeting house of that place. There were
present by invitation, Sisters E. R. S. Smith,
Zina D. H. Young, and E. B. Wells, from Salt
Lake City. Sisters M. T. Smoot and M. Johns
from Provo, Ann D. Bringhurst from Springville,
Rebecca Standring and Sister Coleman from
Lehi, Mary Hindley, Ellen D. Clark and Sister
Greenwood from American Fork; besides some
others from the adjacent towns. The Primary
Association with their President and Counselors
were at the depot when the sisters arrived, and
greeted them with some of their "beautiful
songs," rendered in the very best manner, their
fresh young voices ringing out in the open air
sweet, rich, clear and full of melody. Just be-
yond were some of the Juvenile martial band,
in their stylish uniform, with their instruments
playing their very best music to welcome the
sisters. The meeting at ten a. m. was conducted
by Mrs. E. Brown, President R. S. of that place.
The sisters who spoke presented in a forcible
and earnest manner the subject of the Deseret
Hospital; they also touched briefly but explicitly
upon many other subjects and alluded to the
signs of the times.
	In the afternoon the Primary convened num-
bering about 150 children. Mrs. Harriet C.
West presiding, assisted by her Counselors.


OUR HOSPITAL.
Yes, at last we are so blest as to have a Home for
our afflicted, and for the sick poor, wherein they
will be attended by kind, and efficient physicians,
and nurses who will carefully watch over, and
attend to their respective cases.  It has been in-
augurated cheifly by the sisters, they mooted
the sub ject a long  time and means, and much
consulation, with efficient minds to carry it
out and accomplish something satisfactory.- It


[Column 1]
is a greater work, than the general public have
any idea of, and nothing but brave hearts, clear
heads, and enduring perseverance could have
brought it, even into its present incipient state,
for, as yet, it is indeed only an embryo, but
there are visibly the germs of perfection in it,
and an energetic spirit, one of love and charity,
and heartfelt benevolence has attended its in-
augurators.  The dedication of the house and all
its departments, which took place July 17th,
1882, was, in every way, impressive and anim-
ating.  President Taylor, though suffering un-
der a heavy domestic bereavement, presided,
and spoke as he ever does, with wisdom and
kindness, giving to the institution, and to all
connected with it, his full approval, faith, and
cordial support.  President Joseph F. Smith fol-
lowed in the same kind spirit; and all the
speeches were to the point, and showed every
heart beat with one pulsation, regarding the
work on hand.
	The sisters nominated to officiate in the Hos-
pital were blest, and dedicated to their respective
offices; President Taylor through all assisting,
and officiating.  Mayor Jennings spoke kindly,
and wisely and endorsed his address with--as he
called it, "a small donation," which on opening
was found to be a cheque for five hundred dol-
lars. 
	The smile and approbation of our God is upon
that institution, and will be, we trust, upon all
who officiate in it.  In all earthly undertakings
men and women are, God's delegates, and dis-
pensers, and I feel in this affair, our people will
make this a noble demonstration.  Let us all,
as far as we are able, follow the example of
Mayor Jennings, even the "Widow's mite,"  will
be an addition to the PILE, and let such not
shrink from laying down the humble coin, feel-
ing ashamed that it is so small, beside the the noble
donations of the rich, let us remember the words
of our Savior and the plaudit He bestowed on
"the poor widow" when putting in her “mite”
which was a current coin of that day and age.
The Scotch have a proverb "Many a nickle
makes a mickly" and if the mighty masses that
compose the church of Jesus Christ of Latter
days, give but even a small donation, it will
make a noble pile.
	There is no doubt that it will be, that it must
be a grand success, for God's blessing must be on
an undertaking that is for comforting and for
the healing of the sick poor of his people; and
the prayers and blessings of the sick in that
house will be a mighty Holocaust not offered in
vain.
	My mind is drawn by the subject in a retro-
spective manner to the magnificient Hospital
of my native town--the old University town of
Cambfidge, England; it was a Hospital for a 
Prince.  It was originally founded and endowed
by a gentleman of the name of Addenbrooke; 
and it bears his name for[e]ver.
	Addenbrooke's Hospital, SUPPORTED by VOL-
LUNTARY CONTRIBUTION.  These words are in-
scribed in collosal letters on the upper part of the
building.  It has the appearance of a college, a
broad carriage road extends past the whole build-
ing and continues around a lovely lawn, to noble
iron gates opening on  the street; a clear
beautiful stream of water about six feet wide
and robably three deep, fed by the river Cam
ruus all round the grounds and from which the
house is supplied.  Commencement week which
is a grand time with the University, and of
couse a great influx of visitors, the Hospital is
thrown open for the inspection of the public,
and the promenade is one of the events of the
week.  The building is large and spacious, and
so perfectly clean and beautiful that until you
are shown into the wards, it seems like visiting
the mansion of a nobleman.  I have often heard
the patients speak of the kind and efficient treat-
ment they receive there, with love and gratitude.
All the regulations are stringent and methodi-
cal and are observed imperatively or there could
not be the exquisite order, every where visible.
When Prince Albert was made Chancellor of
the University and the Queen accompanied him
to Cambridge, they made a handsome present-
ation to the Hospital--as their first act.  All
notable visitors do the same.  I do not remem-
ber ever earing a call upon the public to increase
the funds.  Such noble institutions are an honor
to any country, and speak trumpet-tongued of
the spirit, and of the religion of the people
where they exist I feel proud that we, poor
people as we comparatively are, and young in
years as a church, that we too have a home for
our sick and afflicted; may our united prayers
daily ascend as a people for the support and
prosperity of the same, and may we ever bear
in mind that faith without works is dead; and
that the gold and the silver is blest only when it
is laid out directly or indirectly to benefit the
sick and the poor, and to do good in the kingdom
of God. 					HANNAH T. KING


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LETTER OF INSTRUCTION.
TO THE Y. L. M. I. A. LOGAN.
Dear SISTERS:Not being able to visit you
we take this method of communicating with
you. Our great anxiety is to do all the good we
can to aid you in conducting your Association;
that it may prove most successful and interest-
ing to all its members. To do this hold your
meetings regularly, and promptly at the hour
appointed. Whispering, talking, laughing, or
criticising, with a view to make light of the
things we hold sacred, are contrary to the good
order of well regulated meetings for the worship
of God, and should be studiously avoided.
Correct minutes of all your meetings, the
purport of what is said and done, and the names
of the members should be kept and recorded in
a suitable book. A full and complete statistical
and financial report should be furnished the
presidency of the Stake quarterly, giving as
nearly as you can the condition of your associa-
tion, number of meetings held, members in
attendance, number of essays read, number of
chapters read in Bible, Book of Mormon, and
other church works.	
 Invite all the young ladies also young married
ladies to join you—we would like all to take part
in the exercises, and endeavor to make them as
instructive and as interesting as possible.
 We would suggest that a portion of the time
in each meeting be devoted to bearing a testi-
mony of the knowledge you have of the Gospel,
and of the great blessings we enjoy as a people.
Encourage all to be chaste, virtuous, truthful
and humble, and to avoid the very appearance
of evil.
 Observe the counsel of President Taylor in
reference to dancing, and refrain from round
dancing to excess.
Encourage intellectual entertainment, read
good books, and seek unto God for wisdom to
guide you in all you do. Wo bless you in so
doing.
Your Sisters in the Gospel.
(Signed) Harriet A. Preston, Pres.
Kinnie B. Cane.
Ida Ione Cook.
Counselors.


WEST BOUNTIFUL WARD.
Our Society is not a large one in point of num-
bers, but all of the sisters feel well in the work,
and are striving to do good. We have had to
contend with disadvantages, in having no per-
manent place for our meetings, but now the


estry in our new meeting house is completed,
and in the future our meetings will be held
there. We are united in our labors, and feel to
work for the interest of the kingdom of God, and
for the improvement of each other. On the 25th
of July, the sisters of our Society met at the
home of our loved President, Mrs. Susan Grant,
on the anniversary of her 50th birthday, to show
our esteem for her, our appreciation of her labors
as the President of our Society. We presented
her on that occasion with a clock, with the
wish expressed that "even as it may keep good
time for you, may you be enabled to keep good
time with the work of God, until you shall be 
called from time into eternity." Sister Susan re
sponded by thanking the sisters for their kind
ness and congratulations. She was also the re
cipient of some beautiful presents from her own
loved ones. A poem composed for the occasion
by Lucy Darke Muir, appreciative of the friend
ship the sisters felt for Mrs. Grant, was a pleasing
 feature of the entertainment. We were joined
by the brethren at supper. After which we
spent the evening in songs, music, recitations
and speeches. We had a most enjoyable time,
one long to be remembered; and at a pretty late
hour we repaired to our homes, fully satisfied
with our associations of the day. Wishing suc
cess to your valuable paper, and for all our So
cieties, I am yours in the covenant.
			LUCY D. MUIR, Sec'y.


﻿SALEM PRIMARY.
				     -----
	The Primary Association of this place was
organized November 20th, 1879, by Sister Eliza
R. Snow Smith, with one hundred and nine
members present; Sarah D. Curtis, President;
Joanna Hanks and Jarmela Taylor, Counselors;
Joanna Hanks, Secretary; Lucy A. Taylor,
Assistant Secretary, and Marrilla Gardner,
Treasurer; in the place of Joanna Hanks, Laura
L. Jones has been since chosen to act as Coun-
selor.
	The Association was doing well when the
President moved to Arizona in the Spring of
1880, since that time our progress has been slow;
but with the good counsel of those over us we
hope to continue to teach and instruct the young
to the best of our ability.
	On June 21st, we received a visit from our
Stake President and Counselors of the Y. L. M.
I. and P. Associations.	*	*	*    The Primary
Association was then reorganized by Sister Zina
Y. Williams assisted by her Counselors, under
the direction of  Bishop C. D. Evans, with the
following officers: Laura L. Jones, President;
Jarmela Taylor and Caroline B. Lapper, Coun-
selors; Lucy A. Taylor, Secretary, and Gunnil
Hening, Treasurer.
	During the meeting a great many encourage-
ing and instructive remarks were made by the
sisters, each one having something new and in-
teresting to relate to the children.  Bishop C.
D. Evans made a few timely and interesting re-
marks; expressing his thanks to our Provo sisters
for their kind attendance, in which we all feel
to join.  Singing, Benediction.
		Laura L. Jones, President.
		Lucy A. Taylor, Secretary.


﻿SISTERS VISIT TO MORGAN.
				-----
	The R.S. Y.L.M.I.A of Morgan Stake
was held Saturday and Sunday, July 29 and 30.
Mrs. Lydia Rich presiding.  Counselor Samuel
Francis and other brethren were present, Pres.
Smith attended part of the time, also Sisters E.
R. S. Smith and E. S. Taylor, from Salt Lake
City. The reports were good from the Relief
Society; and the young ladies’ reports were very
creditable indeed.  The meetings were very


well attended and an excellent spirit prevailed
throughout. On Monday morning at 11 a. m.
the Primary Conference and Fair was held
Although the Fair had been opened first on
Saturday afternoon. There were about 300
children present. The house was beautifully
decorated for the occasion, with flowers and
evergreens, under the direction of Sister Rawle
and Brother Welch, and hung with mottoes of a
great variety, the work of the children, two of
them were by some little girls "God bless Sister
Snow, God bless our Primary," and other in-
teresting and happy reminders. There were
excellent specimens of fine needle work by girls
who were quite young; one pair of tucked
drawers made by Georgina Smith, five years
old. A quilt made and quilted by Mountain
Green Primary, very neatly done. Quilt by
South Morgan Primary. Knitted stockings,
very good stocking yarn spun by a girl 13 years
old. Master E. Crouch 14 years old had modeled
a very pretty little violin and some models of
animals of wood. Also a fine display of veg-
etables. Master J. Stewart, a pair of man's
 slippers stitched by hand. Master Joseph Welch
13 years, penmanship very neatly executed.
Lions, dogs, birds, and other things fashioned of
clay by the Geery boys of Round Valley, from
9 to 14 years old. Handsome pillow lace by
Sarah Ayers 15 years old. Then there were little
rollers, toy tables, wheelbarrows clothes-horses
by the boys were quite numerous, and indeed a
variety of wood-work. Some very neatly ex-
ecuted by Octavo Ursenbach. Then there were
pies, cakes, and bread of a great variety. A
serenade by the brass band of Morgan, was one
of the pleasing features of the visit of Sisters
Eliza R. S. Smith and Elmina S. Taylor, to
Morgan City.


______________________________________________________________________________

﻿
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
______________________________________________________________________________


OBITUARY.

DIED, July 24th 1882, in Salt Lake City, of
ovarian tumor,, Jane Todd, of West Weber
Weber Co. Sister Todd was born in South
Church, Durham, England, emigrated to Utah
Oct. 23rd 1881.  She was well known to the
Elders who were on missions in the work of
England, and always made them welcome to
her table and her home.  As a Latter-day Saint
she endeavored to live in obedience to all the
principles revealed for the guidance of the Saints.
Her health had long been delicate, and when
the nature of her disease was known, and an
operation was made for her relief determined on,
she expressed her entire submission to the will
of the Lord, whatever the result might be. On
July 20th 1882, at her own request the operation
was performed by Dr. S.B. Young, assisted by
Drs. Anderson and Ferguson, in presence of Dr.
J. M. Benedict and other physicians. She bore
the operation well, but forty-eight hours after
septicaemic symptoms manifested themselves,
and in spite of the assiduous care and skill of
her medical attendants, she died July 24th.
The next day her remains were deposited in Salt
Lake Cemetery, to await the morning of the
first resurrection. An aged mother and two
daughters mourn her departure, as well as many
friends by whom she was highly respected.
							COM.


[Column 1]
	R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
	  	   		REPORTS
			MILL CREEK WARD
	A report of the reorganization and proceed-
ings of the Relief Society of Mill Creek. Our
Association was reorganized August 14th 1877,
under the direction of Bishop Reuben Miller
and his Counselors. With the following named
officers: Mrs. Rhoda A. Miller, President
[Column 2]
Elisabeth Hill and Ann Lemon, Counselors;
Sarah A. Snedaker, Secretary; Miss Nellie
Spencer Asst. Secretary; Mrs. Araminta North,
Treasurer; Melinda H. Butterworth Asst.
Treasurer.
	Some time ago Sarah A. Snedaker, resigned
her office on account of leaving the Ward,
Nellie Spencer was chosen Secretary.  Since
that time we have received donations in cash
to the amount of $415.05; property, $128.45;
labor, $16.15.  Disbursements, to P.A. Fund,
cash $26.00; Salt Lake Temple, $21.50; Logan
Temple, $100.00; poor in cash, $160.00; and
in property $85.11; remaining in Treasury
$107.55; property, $43.34. We have stored
for Zion, wheat to the amount of 497, bu.
18 lbs.
	I am happy to report our Society to be in a
thriving condition. All seem to take a lively
interest.  Our President has not been able to at-
tend much during the last few years on account
of poor health, though afflicted and suffering
much of the time, she lies on her bed preaching
the Gospel and her good influence is felt in the
meetings, and her great and one object is the
Church and kingdom of God. We feel to be
co-workers with you in doing all we can in
regard to sustaining and upholding those that
are placed over us; for we realize that the
time is coming when we will have to see after
the things of God and not after the folly and
fashions of the world; sustain our own people
in preference to the outside element. We
must become united for where there is unity
there is strength and if every there was a time
that strength was needed it is now, to withhold
the opposing power that has been allowed to
rise up among us.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel.
			RHODA A. MILLER, PRES.
			NELLIE SPENCER, Sec'y.

	MILL CREEK WARD, JULY 13th, 1882.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR FRIEND--The Primary Association
of Mill Creek convened in Conference at the
Ward Meeting House, Friday June 23, at the
hours of ten a.m. and two p.m. respectively.
President Ellen C. Clawson presiding. There
were over two hundred children present.
After the usual opening exercises, the reports
of the four Primary Association were read.
The exercises of the day consisted of songs
recitations, dialogues, questions &c., which
were well rendered. On account of the resig-
nation of the Secretary and Treasurer of the
Primary Association of the second district,
Sisters Agnes Merrill and Mary Smuel, were
selected to fill the vacancies.  Also spoke of
beans as a good thing to store up.  The Presi-
dent of each association expressed their pleas-
ure in having the sisters meet with us, and
listening to the many good instructions they
gave the children.
	Brother Lemmon and Plant, spoke encour-
agingly to the children and expressed their
pleasure in listening to the exercises.  Al-
together the children had a time long to be
remembered.
			MARGERY ANN NORTH. Sec.
			BEAR LAKE.
	Minutes of the meetings of the 8th Semi-An-
nual Conference of the Relief Society of Bear
Lake Stake of Zion, held in St. Charles meeting 
[Column 3]
house, July 15th and 16th 1882.  Saturday
morning 10 a.m. Meeting called to order by
Pres. J. P. Lindsay.  After the usual opening
exercises, roll called for R. S Stake officers
and presidents of the branch R. S. Statistical and
Financial reports from fifteen societies were
read. Minutes of previous Conference were
read and accepted. Verbal reports by the
Presidents of the branches of Relief Society, as
follows: St Charles, Pres. Mary Jacobs, Bloom;
ington, Pres. Sarah Greenhalgh; Paris 1st
Ward, Counselor E. Collins; 2nd Ward.  Pres.
M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Pres. M. Carlson.
Liberty, Montpelier and Bennington, not re-
ported.  Georgetown, by Pres. Lewis.  Fish
Haven Pres. Frances Howell; Garden City, A.
E. Cook; Soda Springs, Meadowville, Lake
Town, Randolph Woodruff, Saleratus Creek, not
reported, and Dingle Dell, by Pres. J. Sparks.
	The societies that were represented are all
in a flourishing condition. Counselor E. Collins
expressed her gratitude to her heavenly Father
for his goodness in permitting the people to
meet in Conference, under such favorable cir-
cumstances.  Said those who neglect attend-
ing their meetings will lose the Spirit of God;
and their minds will become darkened.  We
should do nothing to cause our Father in
heaven to withdraw his Spirit from us, let us
strive to keep all the covenants we have made,
and be humble before God at all times.  The
time is nigh at hand when the judgment of the
Almighty will be poured out upon all nations,
and the Saints will have some of these to con-
tend with; therefore let us strive earnestly for
faith to overcome. Advised parents to reason
and talk with their children in kindness, by so
doing they will gain an influence over them;
teach them to pray to God, and look to Him
in sickness, and He will hear and answer their
prayers. We should attend our meetings;
seek first the kingdom of God and all needful
things will be added. Treat the teachers
kindly when they visit you, and listen atten-
tively to what they may have to say. Sister
Sarah Holmes felt to respond when called up-
on, said it is a great privilege to meet together,
and talk of the things of God, try to overcome
the timidity which naturally oppresses us
when we rise to speak, we should study, read
and improve our minds, for we cannot be
saved in ignorance. Pray and teach your
children to pray in the family circle; they
will become accustomed to it, and will respond
whenever called upon in meeting or elsewhere.
Try to overcome evil, and do that which is
right. If the sisters felt as interested as they
should do there would be more of them present
on this occasion. We ought to be alive to our
duties. There is a great work to be done, and
the time is short in which to do it. Meeting
adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing, Benedic-
tion.
	2 p. m. Y, L. M. I. Association occupied
the afternoon. Sunday 16th at 10 a. m. Meet-
ing called to order by President Lindsay, choir
sang. Prayer. Singing. Pres. Lindsay said
we were all like children, striving to learn the
best methods of attending to our business.
Was glad to see so much liberality mani-
fested by the sisters, as there had been
in regard to the building the Temple. We
should all be anxious to have that build.
ing completed. Spoke of the necessity of
assisting to emigrate the poor from the old
countries.  Said we should cherish a spirit of
humility and attend to our prayers, both
publicly and privately. We ought to attend
our meetings and get spiritual food, for we are
as much in need of that as we are of tem-
poral food. Spoke of the great responsibility
resting upon mothers, in training their children
in the fear of God; said we should encourage
them to go to their Primary meetings. Gave
some valuable instructions on the subject of
plural marriage, and said we should take a


[Column 1]
course that would gain the confidence of all
with whom we may be associated. Encouraged
the sisters to patronize our Church publications,
especially the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Spoke
of storing grain, said the judgments would
commence at the house of the Lord, and we
should prepare ourselves to meet coming
events. Asked God to bless all the organiza-
tions of the Church and kingdom of our
Lord.
	Bishop J. A. Hunt said he felt well while
listening to the instructions given by Sister
Lindsay, and knew they were directed by the
Spirit of God. We are called upon to build
temples and send of our means to assist in
gathering the poor from the nations of the
earth, we should ask ourselves the question,
what have we done in responding to the calls
made upon us from time to time? We should
be liberal in doing good with the means which
God has blessed us with. Donate freely to
help build temples, gather the poor, and be
foremost in all that is good. We are apt to
be forgetful of these little things, and our
minds need stirring up often by those ap-
pointed to instruct us. Referred to the Bible
presented by the Relief Society, to the people
of St Charles for the meeting house, returned
thanks of himself and the people to President
Jacobs and Relief Society for their kindness.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing.
Benediction, F. McCann.
	2 p. m. Sacrament administered. Afternoon
occupied by the Primary Associations. Conf
ference adjourned until the 13th and 14th, of
January 1883.
				E. PUGMIRE Sec'y
				JULIS BUDGE, Asst. Sec'y.

	Statistical and Financial Report of the Re-
lief Society of Bear Lake Stake for the six
months ending June 30th 1882. Statistical,
teachers, 126; members, 451; total officers and
members, 575; meetings held, 129; average at-
tendance, 217; church papers taken, 164; WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, 34. Statistical, on hand
at date of last report, cash, $66.62 cts., pro-
perty 628.16; wheat, 635 bus. 22 lbs; Receipts,
cash, $220.23; property, 161.28. Disburse-
ments to needy, cash, 11.70; property, 13.76;
emigration, 47.25; temple cash, 131.00; pro-
perty, 25.90; home industries, cash, 14,87;
property, 27.55; books, cash, $10.00; mis-
sionary, 1.00; building property, 10.24. On
hand, cash, $145.75; property, 875.70; wheat,
635, bu. 22 lb.

	Semi-Annual Conference of Primary As
sociations of Bear Lake Stake, held at St
Charles, July 16th, 1882. Counselor Elizabeth
Pugmire presiding. After the usual opening
exercises, the minutes of the previous Confer-
ence were read and approved, after which the
financial report was read as follows. cash
recieved, $41.20; property, 9.45; total, 50.65;
Disbursements, cash, $21.44; temple, 14.80;
charitable purposes, 11,60; on hand cash 10.04;
property, 9,45; total, $67.33.
	Verbal reports were given by the several
presidents of the Associations. Coun. E. Pug-
mire addressed the congregation, and was fol-
lowed by Bishop Henry Lewis, Brother George
Osmond, Sister Holmes, Brother Thomas Mc-
Cann and Pres. J. Lindsay, all expressing a
pleasure in witnessing the advancement of the
children, and the diligence with which the
officers had labored. A good spirit prevailed
during Conference which was adjourned until
January 16th 1883.
				ANNIE LAKER, Pres.
				SUSANNA BOOTH, Sec'y

PANGUITCH.

	The eighth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of the Panguitch Stake of Zion
was held at Panguitch, Friday June 16th 1882.

[Column 2]
Prest. Barbara Myers presiding. Present on
the occasion were Apostles F. M. Lyman, John
Henry Smith, Stake Prest. James Henrie M.
M. Steele, J. W. Crosby Jr. of the presidency
of the stake, also Bishops and other visiting
brethren from different wards. After the
usual opening exercises Prest. Myers made a
few appropriate remarks and invoked the
blessing of the Lord upon the Conference.
The minutes of the last Conference were read
and approved. Local and general authorities
were sustained. Verbal reports of each Re-
lief Society in the stake were given, showing
the Societies in good condition.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman said he was much
pleased with the way the business was done,
said there was a great deal of missionary labor
 for the sisters, we need some assistance and en-
couragement in all that we do. The mothers
as a rule have the care of the children in their
early training, and great responsibility rests
upon the mother; they have the training of
their faith, should weigh well what they say,
should live so the spirit of the Lord would be
our constant companion, Prest. Myers made
some very appropriate remarks. Conference
adjourned for three months. Singing, Bene-
diction by J. W. Crosby Jr.
				SARAH P. CROSBY, Secy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY FAIR.

Notes taken of the Primary Fair, held in
the 1st. Ward July 20, 1882.
According to arrangements the children of
the Primary Association with a few invited
guests, met at the school house on Thursday
July 20th, at 10 o’clock; after singing by the
children, Elder A. M. Musser opened the
fair with prayer,singing again by the children,
when Brother Musser made a few remarks;
after which he declared the fair opened.
The fair consisted of over one hundred art-
icles, all made by the members of the Associa-
tion; most of them are very young and deserve
great credit for the interest taken ns well as
the varieties of work.
The little boys, I think, deserve special
mention, their miniature wheel-barrows and
garden tools, and other articles, all showing
industry worthy of so good a cause. The girls
did their part in flowers, and different kinds of
fancy work, not forgetting the more substantial
hand sewing and cookery. The fair remained
open until Friday noon, when a sumptuous re-
past having been prepared, the members of the.
Primary Association, under the supervision of
Sister Mary W. Musser, with a few invited
guests, sat down to the feast. The children
present numbered about 60, all healthy and
happy.
After dinner was over, the people began to
gather together for meeting, which opened at
2 o’clock. After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, we had a short programme by the
children consisting of songs, dialogues, and
recitations. Sister Ellen Clawson addressed
the audience, expressed herself as being well
pleased with every thing, encouraging the
President in her endeavors to interest the child-
ren, as well as the great pains and trouble she
had taken in decorating and making things so
attractive; exhorted the mothers to come to
meeting. and take more interest in having the
children attend, that they may continue in the
good path and increase in good works, made
other excellent remarks. Sister B. W. Smith
spoke of the improvement made by the child-
ren.
In the meantime a little surprise had been
arranged in the shape of a beautiful ring. for
our worthy President, Sister Alice M. B.
Fletcher. Sister Annie Musser came to the
stand and made an approprate little speech in
behalf of the mothers of the children. The
ring was then given to her by a little girl, very
much to the surprise of the lady who stepped
forward and expressed her gratitude, with the
kind appreciation of those interested, and for
the little token of remembrance which showed 
she had not labored in vain. Her feelings
would not allow her to say much.
After some further arrangements the ex-
ercises were adjourned till evening and meet-
ing was dismissed.
At the appointed time for the party, the
house was filled with the happiest band of
children it has been our lot to witness, some of
their parents were present also, most of the
time was spent in dancing. But the main fea-
ture of the evening was a grand march by the
children around a car in the center of the
room, decorated with the stars and stripes, and
the following mottoes, ‘Liberty, E Pluribua
Unum, and In God we trust,” in gilt letters.
The car contained five little children represent-
ing a miniature goddess of liberty, maids of
honor, and pages, each holding the flag of our
country in their hands. The children were
all dressed in uniform, the girls with blue
sashes, and the boys with red, the latter also
wore paper caps trimmed with gilt and bright
colors, making quite an imposing appearence.
Dancing was kept up until 11 o’clock, the
children expressed themselves as never having
so good a time before, which no one doubted,
that was present. Thus ended the happy two
days.	A. M. B. FLETCHER, Pres.
		M. W. MUSSER, Coun.
		JULIA YOUNG, Sec’y.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following is a short sketch of the rise of
the young gentlemen and ladies Relief Society
in Nauvoo which was printed in the Times and
Seasons in the year 1843, and the reading of it
will doubtless bring to many a friend of yore
pleasing reminiscences of the days when we
were young.
	"One evening in the latter part of January
last, a few young people having assembled at
the house of Elder H. C. Kimball; the follies
of youth and the temptations to which they
are exposed generally, but more especially in
our city, became the topic of conversation.
The company were lamenting the loose style
of the morals, the frivolous manner in which
they spent their time, and their too frequent
attendance at balls, parties, etc., when Elder
Kimball proposed that an appointment should
be given out expressly for the young ladies
and gentlemen, and he would give them such
instruction and advice as the spirit of the Lord
might suggest to him; which, if followed,
would doubtless lead to a reformation in the
conduct of his young friends. This proposition
was received with delight, and acted upon with
alacrity.
	"An appointment having been given out, a
number of the young people assembled at the
house of Elder Billings, when Elder Kimball
addressed them for some time upon the duties
of children to their parents, to society and to
their God; exhorting them to lay aside their
vanity, lightmindedness, pride and frivolity;
and endeavor to show themselves worthy of
the religion which they had embraced; advis-
ing them to shun evil company, (for by an in-
dividual's company is his character estimated,)
and to be obedient to their parents, for this
was the first commandment with promise.
	"This address was so well received by the
assembled congregation that it was voted, al-
most by acclamation, that a similar meeting
should be held on the ensuing week. An ap-
pointment was accordingly circulated for the
next Wednesday evening at Brother Lorin


Farr’s schoolhouse, as Elder Billings house
was too small to contain the assemblage.
"On the appointed evening, the room was
filled to overflowing. Elder Kimball addressed
the crowded, but silent and attentive con-
gregation, for the space of an hour; in that
plain, simple an affectionate manner which
goes directly to the heart, and which is so
natural to the speaker. He first explained the
duty which  youth owed to themselves, and
the manner in which they might obtain honor
and respect, viz; by applying their minds with
determined perseverence to all the studies com-
monly deemed necessary to fit them for active
life and polish them for society, and not only
to these but also to the study of Scripture,
the book of Mormon, the book of Doctrine
and Covenants, and the most theological work
of their most talented elders. By pursuing
this course, said he, "you will be enabled to
give a reason for the hope and the joy which
exists within you, you will always be prepared
to explain the doctrine in which you believe,
you will ever be ready to prove and defend
your religion, you will be well received in
company and will be esteemed by all wise and
good men. We who have borne the heat and
burden of the day will soon go the way of all
the earth and give place to you my young
brethren. You will soon come upon the stage
of action, and be called upon to carry the
glad tidings of the new and everlasting coven-
ant to the remotest parts of the earth, and
proclaim the news of gospel grace to a lost and
ruined world. Strive, therefore, to show your-
selves worthy of your calling: be dutiful,be hum-
ble, be faithful, be obedient and acquit your-
selves like men, and men of God." He con-
cluded his interesting discourse with a general
exhortation to keep all of the commandments
of God, to associate with none but the wise
and virtuous, and lastly to keep themselves
pure and unspotted from the world. This dis-
course, like the preceeding one, was received
with delight by all the hearers.
"Brother Farr then made a few short but
pertinent remarks, when a vote was taken
whether the meetings should be continued,
which ffa carried unanimously in the affirm-
ative.
"This room being also too small, the next ap-
pointment was made for the meeting to be
held at the house of President Joseph Smith.
"Notwithstanding the inclemency of the
weather the house was completely filled at an
early hour, and numbers were obliged to de-
part for want of room. The assembly were,
as usual, addressed by Elder Kimball, who, in
a solemn and impressive manner, warned the
young people against the evils to which they
were exposed, and the temptations to which
they were peculiarly subject; not only from
their youth and inexperience, but also from
their sanguine and excitable temperament.
He exhorted them to be guided by the voice of
reason and judgment, and pay strict attention
to the advice and commands of their parents,
who being of maturer years and a longer ex-
perience, are much better calculated to guide
the pathway of youth, than they themselves.
He warned them against giving heed to their
passions, which, he said, would lead them into
many snares and difficulties. He advised
them never to be too forward in company, for
"a wise head keeps a silent tongue;" to be con-
descending to their inferiors, kind and concili-
ating to their equals, and deferential, not
slavish, to their superiors. He warned them
against frequenting balls and such places,
which, he said, would generally lead to many
evil practices, and draw away the mind from
more innocent amusements,and from their duty
to their parents. He said "he had not now,
nor ever had, any objections to having young
people meet together in social parties, or in-
dulging in any rational amusement; but, he
strongly opposed carrying it to extremes, as it
generally was." He concluded this address
by exhorting them to give heed to his advice,
for it was according to holy scriptures,and "to
live by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God." The house being still too
small, the next was appointed at the lodge-
room over President Smith's store. At the
appointed time this large room was filled to
overflowing, and the great numbers which
assembled testified to the increasing interest in
which these meeting were held by theyouth
of the city. Again Elder Kimball addressed
them and gave them such advice as would be
useful to them at the present time and also in
their future lives.
To be Continued.


48 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADY STUDENTS AT CAMBRIDGE.

	It may be of interest to our readers to know
something of the life that is led by the students
at Girton. The plan is to have all the meals
in the dining hall; breakfast is supplied from
8 to 9, lunch from 12 to 3, and dinner, which
is, of course, a general meal, at 6. Tea is sent
to the students' own rooms; about 4 o'clock the
cheerful rattling of tea-cups is heard in the
corridors, and announces the arrival of the
servant with a large trayful of cups. These
trays are taken round to all the students' rooms
and also to the lecture-rooms, where the com-
bination of tea and study forms a peculiar
feature of the Girton lectures. Four o'clock
is an important hour at Girton, and one that
is not willingly missed by students. Those who
are absent from their rooms for a short time
generally leave a notice on their doors asking
for a cup of tea; and another notice that may
frequently be observed when walking along
the corridors is, "Please see to my fire." "En
gaged" is also put up by busy students who
are anxious not to be disturbed. The morning
hours are, of course, the best working hours;
from 9 to 1 is the usual working time; 1 being
the favorite hour for lunch. Nearly all the
lectures at Girton are given in the afternoon,
and the hours between 2 and 6 are generally
divided between lectures and tennis or walks.
But most students have some completely free
afternoons, which thay can devote to expedi-
tions into Cambridge or long country walks.
Lectures in Cambridge are given in the morn-
ing, and to these the natural science and his-
tory students go. Most mathematical and
classical lectures are given at Girton. None
o'clock in the evening is the time which public
opinion fixes as the right moment to leave off
work. Of course this is not always possible,
but as a rule it is the sociable hour and the
time for tea parties. Trays with materials
for tea, coffee or cocoa are sent round to the
rooms, and as every one has a kettle of her
own, tea can be taken at any time, and this is
generally a social meal, which two or three
friends, partake of together, enjoying the
luxury of leisure after work. Once a week a
practice is held by members of the choral so-
ciety, who usually give a concert at the end of
the term, to whlch friends are invited. There
is also a debating society, and an institution
peculiar to Girton, a ladies' fire brigade,
"womanned" by the students, in Cambridge
parlance. This was first thought of when
some small fire engines were presented to the
college; and some of the students, after receiv-
ing due and formal instruction, taught the
many details of pumping, passing buckets,
carrying in mysterious knots, etc., to the rest.
The institution continues to flourish and to
hold weekly practices.—London Society.


[Column 1]
	"To discriminate against woman is a denial
of right."—Governor John D. Long, of
Massachusetts.

[Column 2]
Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a. m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRUICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds, 		Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1882.	NO. 7.


[Column 1]
MISREPRESENTATION.

	"For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but
against princi palities, against powers, against the rulers
of the darkness of this world, against wickedness in
high places."
	"Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with
truth, and having on the breast plate of righteousness."
7th ch. of Ephesians 12 and 14 verses."

"The wounds of a friend (said the preacher)
	Are better than kisses untrue,"
But what of the many who smite us,
	With nought that is kindly in view.

There are mortals so mean and malicious,
	Who exclusively traffic in lies;
And some both inventive and vicious,
	Out of NOTHING can evil devise.

Both inside and outside, "the kingdom,"
	Detractors, their betters decry;
Yet be sure, there is triumph in patience,
	And wisdom knows when to reply.

All kinds of reproach, from all quarters,
	Must "the Saints" as their heritage take;
Must expect to be doubted and slandered,
	"And hated for righteousness sake."

"Our names are cast out" should that try us?
	Nay I for truth, with tradition must clash,
One! higher than even the highest—
	Will bring our redemption to pass.

And oh! to be worthy the favor—
	Of Him! who alone is supreme,
Outweighs the good name, the distinction,
	That many do highly esteem.

Of light! God hath open'd the portals,
	"The ensign! foretold is unfurled;
The truth! is restored unto mortals;
	The Gospel is preach'd to the world.

Though the world e'en reject and disdain it
	Though delusion ! delusion, they cry—
The Saints with their lives must sustain it,
	Must proclaim that God's kingdom is nigh.

The cry, "Lo! the Bridegroom is coming,"
	Must be sounded and heard far and near;
O'er the nations fierce judgments are looming,
	And our skirts of their blood must be clear.

And this to all kindreds and people—
	Of his purpose we testify still,
Whose empire shall widen and flourish,
	Till the universe bows to his will.

Oh! ye Saints, for our hopes of salvation,
	We're called much to do, much to dare;
And the cross of misrepresentation—
	We must patiently, willingly bear.

Account it as nothing, for falsehood
	Is surely the least of the tests,
That "the Prince of perdition" and darkness,
	Applies to the purest and best.

Shall we slight our commission appointed ?
	Shall we shrink from invectives and scorn?
Truth's messengers call'd and anointed,
	Must ne'er be afraid or forlorn,

Consider, how Christ was rejected,
	How his own was against Him array'd
He but spoke as his Father directed,
	And death was the price that He paid.

Consider the base contradictions—
	That the former-day Saints all endur'd
Yet what were their fiercest affictions.
	Compared to the blessings secur'd.

We must needs from integrity borrow—
		Support' and we'll yet have amends—
	[----]e Falsehoods of foes, and worse sorrow,
		[----]al by some we call'd friends.

[Column 2]
Our God is a bountiful giver.
	And to all who endure to be tried -
His "peace shall flow in like a river"
	And blessings shall come with the tide,
			EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City.


﻿THE FEAR OF THE LORD.
				-----
	Fear of the Lord is a reverential awe for
our Creator.  A veneration issuing from the
heart of every being, who acknowledges his
God. Wisely did one of the prophets remark
“The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wis-
dom.”  Corroborating this statement, we have
only to retrospect on hagiology, and recall the
incontrovertible success of God-fearing men,
from the time of our Savior, until the present.
Knowledge, like a stream, must have a foun-
tain-head.  Have scientists by chance-work dis-
covered the astounding facts we now see de-
veloped, which, giving impetus to advancement,
have brought man to his present standard?
Who could have implanted in the minds of
our world renowned inventors, that indefatig-
able ambition for the accomplishment of some
aim, but a God? With his consent only has
mortal man been permitted to control electric-
ity sufficiently to girt our globe with means of
communication; which is but one of the exist-
ing facts, proving the “march of intellect,”
which Atheists claim is the natural develop-
ment of the mind.
	Overthrowing this selfish theory, and sub-
stantiating the fact that God has, through in-
spiration, endowed men with capabilities, we
need only refer to the Pyramids of Egypt,
bearing astronomical truths, which to-day defy
science deciphering.  God’s ways differ widely
from the narrow, contracted devices of man;
hence the most illiterate, if humble and virtu-
ous, are often chosen as instruments to work
mighty miracles; for proof of this we need not
go beyond the pales of our Church.  Self-con-
ceit is an obstacle, rather than a stimulus, to
advancement!  Dependency upon a Divine
Being must precede all efforts, if success is de-
sired. How fallen would be a community,
from whom the fear of the Lord had been ob-
literated! Selfishness, sensuality, and crime
would  trample, defy, nay—extinguish, all
human laws.  Principle, duty, virtue and
peace would vanish like dew before the sun,
and return in like manner to the God that
gave them.
	Free from the piercing eye of Heaven, and
aided by the mantle of night, the blackest
crimes could be perpetrated, and remain mys-
teries; with no avenger for the unfortunate,
and perfect safety for the diabolical fiend,
whose desires satiated, could gaze with malig-
nant satisfaction on his dead victim, and gloat
in the secret of his fortune with no fear of
being brought to justice, either on this earth,
or at the eternal bar of God.  Reflect, O ye,
who fear not the Lord!  What a deplorable
condition would be yours did ye out-number
the faithful!  Warning take from the fate of
those disregarding their Creator in the days of
Noah; like "chaff" before the wind,” were they
swept off the face of the earth; the righteous
alone remaining to chant the sad requiem over
their fellow-men who, through their disobedi-
ence, received the just dues of an insulted God.
Our heart’s blood chills when we contemplate
his great power!  Man’s miniature wisdom
sinks into insignificancy when compared to
the universal knowledge and workings of
Heaven’s inmates.  Surely God’s omnipotent,
merciful gaze has protected us from infidelity;
for to-day we still find the majority of en-
lightened mankind are Christians, willing to
acknowledge a Superior Ruler, and give Him
the praise for their great achievements.
	Every person has a mission to perform, and if
he is prayerful and honors his Maker, the effects
of that mission will be gratifying to his inner
soul, even if ’tis only to improve self.  Some de-
clare their incompetency to advance one idea;
we wrong ourselves when we utter such a state-
ment; we show ingratitude to God whose likeness
we bear; we make him a partial Being, and com-
plainingly blame any other rather than our-
selves.  Lurking deep in the mind of every
intelligent individual are ideas, germs—which
(if cultivated) would benefit not only the pos-
sessor, but advance others.  The delicate,
modest violet, which in its simplicity chooses
rather the mellowed rays of the sun, and bash-
fully bows its head from the gaze of its com-
panions, when plucked and tastefully arranged
to blend with adjacent colors, adds to the
beauty of the bouquet, as much as the bold,
glaring poppy whose only mission seemingly
is to store up the color rays of “old Sol” and
radiate them regardless of taste. The soft,
velvet-like turf, mantling the bare earth,
assists in the landscape, and does its part to-
wards making the painting grand, beautiful
and picturesque, as much as does the majestic,
towering pine whose nature demands it to rear
its proud head, and rank with the foremost in
the scale of stateliness and beauty. Contrast
seems God’s aim. Why then murmur if our
capabilities appear inferior.  All possess some
special faculty, which is our prerogative to
ameliorate. Cast your mite, let it be ever so
molecular in your mind, God was the sower,
and like the grain of sand, it will count one in
the formation of a strand; or like the dew-drop
it sparkles and forms one crystal on the tender
vine.
					JENNIE HARRIS.
	Beaver.


NOTES AND NEWS.
The Woman’s Congress will hold its tenth
annual meeting in the City Hall, Portland,
Me., October 11th, 12th, and 13th.
The Friend of Women is a monthly magazine
recently started in Moscow, Russia. It is con-
ducted exclusively by women.
A woman dentist at Quebec has been de-
nounced by the press for pursuing an un-
womanly avocation, and the clergy of two
parishes have prohibited their people from
having anything to do with her.
“America’s salvation lies, under God, in
America’s women. It is precisely because I
desire to conserve our glorious past that I
plant myself on the platform of woman suff-
rage.”—[G. N. Boardman.	
The next Legislature will have to “submit”
the woman suffrage amendment and in 1884
the women will vote in this State, and don’t
you forget it. That amendment will carry by
100,000 majority. Politicians will do well to
begin electioneering the ladies—Iowa Leader


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.
		By Helen Mar Whitney.
	"At the next meeting President Joseph Smith
was present and addressed the young gentle-
men and ladies for some time. He expressed
his gratitude to Elder Kimball in the strong-
est terms, for having commenced and carried
on in so masterly a manner the good and
glorious work he had undertaken. He said
it would be the means of doing a great deal
of good, and of benefiting his young friends
more than they were aware of: that the grati-
tude of all good men, and of the young people
whom he had so much benefited, would follow
him through life; and “when gray hairs
should his temples adorn ” he could look back
with pleasure upon the winter of 1843, when
he was engaged in promoting the cause of
benevolence, and preparing his young friends
for the glorious career which awaited them.
He said that he stood before them with more
embarrasment, than he would before kings,
nobles and great men of the earth, for he
knew the crimes of which they were guilty,
and knew precisely how to address them; but
his young friends, before whom he now stood,
were guilty of none of these crimes, and he
hardly knew what to say. He said he had
never in his life seen such a large company of
young people assembled together, pay such
strict attention, listen with such profound
silence and keep such good order as the assem-
bly now before him. He praised their good
conduct, and taught them how to behave in
all places, explained to them their duty, and
advised them to organize themselves into a
society for the relief of the poor. As a com-
mencement to their benevolent efforts, he offered
a petition from an English brother by the
name of Modesly, who was lame, and who
wished them to build him a house that he
might have a home among the saints: he had
gathered together a few materials for this pur-
pose, but was unable to use them; and, relying
upon the active benevolence of the young
people of Nauvoo, he sends in his petition
that you may act upon it as you deem proper.
He advised them to choose a commitee to col-
lect funds for this purpose, and perform this
charitable work as soon as the weather became
suitable. He gave them much good advice,
to guide their conduct through life and pre-
pare them for a glorious eternity.
 “He said he was very much pleased with the
course Elder Kimball had taken, and hoped he
would continue his meetings and that the
young people would follow his teachings. A
meeting was appointed for the young men to
take these things into consideration: but owing
to the appointment not being generally circu-
lated, many young gentlemen were not present.
The meeting was however called to order; Wm.
Cutler was chosen president, and Marcellus L.
Bates clerk, Andrew Cahoon, C. V. Spencer
and Stephen Perry were appointed as a com-
mittee to draft a constitution for the govern-
ment of the society. After hearing several
speeches the meeting adjourned to the evening
of the 28th of March.
“At the next public meeting we were ad-
dressed by Elders Kimball and Roundy, and
as usual, received much good instruction.
Elder Kimball advised us to choose our wisest
young men as officers of the society, and ap-
point a commitee to wait upon the young
ladies, as well as gentlemen, and obtain their
subscription; for, said he, ‘they are as full of
benevolence, and as ready to assist in relieving
fthe poor, as are the young gentlemen.’ He
also advised that no one be excluded from the
society, of whatever sect or denomination he
might be; but give every one an opportunity
of doing all the good in their power. On this
evening the storm was raging tremendously,
and the cold north wind was blowing in a
most searching manner; yet, contrary to the
expectations of every one, the house was al-
most filled, not only with young men and boys,
but with the tender, lovely and beautiful
females of our city. They seemed determined
to brave every extremity of the weather,
rather than be absent from the place where
they received such good instructions.
 This showed the good effects which had al-
ready been produced by these meetings, and
cheered on the spirits of him who had just
commenced them, and had since been their
chief promoter. Instead of the young people
spending their evenings at parties, balls, etc.,
they would now leave all, and attend to their
meetings. Instead of hearing about this party
and that party, this dance and that dance, in
different parts of the city, their name was
scarcely mentioned, and the Young People’s
Meetings became the cheif topic of conversa-
tion.
“Pursuant to adjournment, the young men
convened together on the 21st of March. The
minutes of the last meeting were read and
approved, and the same officers appointed to
preside as on the former evening. The report
of the commitee was then called for, which
was as follows:
Whereas, The young gentlemen and ladies,
citizens of the city of Nauvoo, are desirous of
aiding and ameliorating the condition of the
poor and of carrying out the principles of
charity and benevolence, as taught in the holy
scriptures, thereof be it,
Resolved, That we form ourselves into a so-
ciety to be styled the “Young Gentlemen and
Ladies Relief Society of Nauvoo,” and that
we be governed by the' following articles, to
wit:
	1st. There shall annually be elected by the
society, on the last Tuesday in March, a presi-
dent, vice president, treasurer and secretary.
2nd. It shall be the duty of the president to
preside over all meetings of the society.
3d. It shall be the duty of the vice president
to preside over all meetings in the absence of
the president.
It shall be the duty of the treasurer to re-
ceive all funds of the society, and to keep a
correct record of all the receipts and disburse-
ments, also from whom received, and to whose
benefit appropriated, and make a report of the
same, as often as required by the society.
4th. It shall furthermore be the duty of the
said treasurer, before entering into office, to
give bonds to the amount of one thousand
dollars to the society, for the faithful discharge
of all duties incumbent upon 	him, which shall
be lodged in the hands of the Trustee in Trust.
5th. It shall be the duty of the secretary to
keep a record of all the proceedings of the
society.
	6th. There shall annually be chosen a com-
mittee of vigilance, consisting of five persons,
whose duties it shall be to search out the poor
of our city, and make known to the society the
wants of those whom they, in their judgment,
shall consider most deserving of our assistance.
	7th. The society shall meet on the last
Tuesday in each month, at 6 o'clock P. M.
	8th. A special meeting of the society can be
called by a petition of twelve of the members,
to the secretary, whose duty it shall be to give
notice of the same, by posting up a written
notice in at least three of the most public
places in the city, at least three days previous
to said meeting.
 9th. This constitution shall be lodged in the
hands of the secretary, whose duty it shall be
to present it at each meeting of the society,
and receive the names of all persons wishing
to become members, under thirty years of age,
who can sustain a good moral character, and
who are willing to support this constitution.
10th. Any person being a member of this
society, and being found guilty of any djsor-
derly conduct, or refusing to comply with the
rules of the society, can be expelled at any
regular meeting of the same, by a vote of the
majority of the members present.
1th. In the event of a removal, by death,
or prolonged absence of either of the officers,
it shall be the prerogative of the society to ap-
point another m his stead.
12th. This constitution shall be subject to
an amendment at any regular meeting of.the
society, by the voice of two-thirds of the mem-
bers present.”
“This report was unanimously adopted, and
the meeting then proceeded to choose their
officers. William Walker was chosen presi-
dent, William Cutler, vice president; Lorin
Walker, treasurer, and James M. Monroe,
secretary. Stephen Perry, Marcellus L. Bates,
R. A. Aired, William H. Kimball, and Gar-
ret Ivans were appointed as a commitee of vigi-
lenco. Alter some discussion the meeting ad-
journed until the next Tuesday evening.”
“At the next public meeting, the large and
crowded assembly were addressed at consider-
able length, by Elders Jedediah M. Grant, Brig-
ham Young and Heber C. Kimball. The ad-
dresses were very interesting and highly in-
structive, as the breathless silence and deep at-
tention of the audience attested.
“This is, in short, a history of this society,
which bids fair to be one of the most useful
and benevolent societies in the Union. Through-
out all of the meetings, the profound silence
and the best of order was kept up continually.
If the youth throughout our land would fol-
low this good example and form themselves in-
to such societies, there would be much less sin,
iniquity, misery and degradation among the
young people than there is at the present day;
there would not be as many suffering poor,
neither would there be as much immorality
among the people. But on the contrary,
peace, good order, happiness, cheerfulness and
plenty would reign in the land, the Lord
would look down from his holy habitation and
smile upon us and bless us all.”
I. M. Monroe, Secy.
To be Continued.


THE AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCI-
ATION will hold its Thirteenth Annual Meet-
ing, in Omaha, Nebraska, at the Baptist Church,
September, 12 and 13, beginning its sessions on
Tuesday, Sept. 12 at 12 and at 7:30 P. M. All
friends of Woman Suffrage who are in sym-
pathy with the principles and methods of the
Association, are respectfully invited to attend.
	Auxiliary State and local societies are en-
titled to send delegates equal in number to
the congressional delegations of their respec-
tive states and territories. Where vacancies
occur, they may be supplied by alternates from
these localities, in attendance at the conven-
tion. All members of the Association have a
right to take part in the discussions.
	The Woman Suffrage Constitutional Amend-
ment now pending in Nebraska gives the
present occasion special interest and import-
ance. Some of the speakers in attendance
will remain and take part in the campaign. A
full attendance of suffragists is earnestly re-
quested.
	Every auxiliary State and local society is
invited to send a report of its work, and to
propose plans of action. Efforts will be made
to secure reduced railroad and hotel fares; also
hospitality at Omaha during the convention,
of which notice will be given hereafter in the
WOMAN'S JOURNAL.
	By order of the Executive Committe,
		ERASMUS M. CORRELL, Pres.
		LUCY STONE, Chair. Ex. Com.
		HENRY B. BLACKWELL, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 51


LINES.

	Suggested by a discourse delivered in the Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City, Aug. 13th, 1882 by a young missionary,
Matthias Cowley.

"The cares of the world" the demands of existence,
	Encumber so many, who mean to be true;
If we seek not the Lord, and his promised assistance
	We keep not the end of our calling in view.

How many grow cold, yea, their "first love" is frozen;
	So lost to the light, they perceive not a ray,
"How many are call'd, but how few are the chosen—,
	How strait is the gate, and how narrow the way."

Yet "the seed" was all good by "the sower" implanted,
	But so much of it fell on such profitless soil;
Oh! not unto all is stability granted,
	And seemingly vain is "the husband-man's toil.

Ah! no, not in vain, not in vain, doth he labor,
	If he turns but one soul from his errors away;
For such, he shall even be counted a Savior,
	And shall hide many sins, at the great judgment day.

"And they, who to righteousness turn or win many,
	Who work in "the vineyard" with zeal and with
		might,
Though the last ones employed, shall be well as any *
And shall shine as the stars in the firmament bright.

May our young men and maidens, "the children of Zion"
	Be fill'd with the zeal that the Gospel inspires;
May they all love the light, and be bold as a lion—
	For the truth, e'en the faith of their mothers and sires;
That the Lord may have labor'rs indeed to rely on—
	Who will vigilant be, till their life lease expires.

May they seek to be wise—to obtain understanding,
	Yea, covet the knowledge, our God doth bestow,
That the Lord speaking through them—attention com-
		manding—
	The hearts of their hearers within them shall glow,
Oh could we but see ALL our youths' thus expanding,
	What peace and what pleasure their parents would
	know.
						EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	Salt Lake City Aug. 14th, 1882.
*	Math. 20th ch, 9th and following verses.


A FRAGMENT.

HONORA TO HER BABE.
I won thee down by the gates of death,
	And must I go again,
To win by test of a deeper woe
	His smile and praise as then?
My arms were weary with thy dear weight,
	When his might have rested mine,
They were wound around a stranger's torm,
	Instead, sweet babe, of thine.
Kisses that would have quieted thee,
	On a wanton's lips he pressed,
And thou hast a poisoned sorrow drained
	From thy poor mother's breast.
I am faint my love, am weak, but no--
	Thy mother must not fall,
But mount the watch-tower of her soul
	Along this gloomy wall.
O, guardian angels! reach thy hands
	And help these feet to climb,
Up from this venomed poisoned marsh,
	To height and breath sublime.
Away from these venomed eyes that shine
	With light like baleful star,
To freer heights where grander sould,
	Lion and eagle are.
My lips are faint, my love, for food,
	The gold his hands denied,
Is lavished free in tempting fruits
	When she is by his side.
Upon her bosom the flaunting flower
	No tender grace doth bear,
Nor odor sweet to reveal for her
	A spirit fine and rare.
Rather is she like berries ripe,
	Or wine that gloweth red,
That tempt the hands and lips to take,
	And rule the thoughtless head.


Not like a flower that climbing lifts, 
	Its chalice to the sky,
But like a vine that tangling spreads
	Where'er his pathway lie.

And like the vine, so, neath the feet
	Trampled at last to be--
While I above like withered branch
	Droop from thy parent tree.

And yet as oft from withered branch
	The weak a staff may make--
So thou my love doth rest on me
	The while my heart doth break.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
July, 1882.


A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
Continued.
After the return of the Horne family from
Parowan, and the husband’s return from Dixie,
prosperity seemed to dawn upon them propit-
ously, and their home was indeed a happy one.
Boys and girls just merging into manhood and
womanhood attracted attention to the house,
and the young people of the Ward, and indeed
of the City, were fond of spending their even-
ings at the home of these young folks; the
children were all of them singers too, and
musically as well as socially inclined, which
generally makes homes more attractive, not
only to the inmates but to friends and acquaint-
ances.
 There is nothing more delightful, than a
house full of cultivated, young people, es-
pecially, those who sing and play, and are
somewhat accomplished. Large  families
where all is orderly and each one takes pleas-
ure in the other’s happiness are the most’charm-
ing homes. Such a one was Mrs. Horne’s;
peace, contentment and quiet brooded over the
habitation and like the woman mentioned in
Proverbs, “She openeth her mouth with wis-
dom and in her tongue is the law of kindness,”
“She looketh well to the ways of her house-
hold, and eateth not the bread of idleness.”
Mrs. Horne is not only industrious herself
but she has trained her children in habits of
industry and punctuality that will recommend
them in every situation in life, whether public
or private.
Mrs. Horne’s eldest son Henry was married
July 24th, 1860, to Miss Mary Ann Crismon.
This was quite an important event, being the
first marriage in so large a family. It was a
union in every way desirable to all parties con-
cerned and has proved to be a happy one. At
resent and for some years past, Henry Horne
as resided with his family in Paris, Idaho,
where he is highly respected.
On the 5th of April 1861, Mrs. Horne’s
fifteenth child was borne, a daughter, and was
named Clara Ella. The mother’s health had
been quite delicate for some time, and she was
ill prepared to endure any additional hardship
or trial, but about two weeks after the birth of
the babe Mr. Horne was called a second time
to go to the Missouri river to meet accompany
of Saints. This was a severe trial, with such
a large family, to be left with all the respon-
sibility of the household and a young babe to
take care of. But Mrs. Horne trusted in the
help of a higher than an earthly power or she
could not have risen above the heavy burdens
she was called upon from time to time to en-
dure. The little Clara was rather a delicate
child and required much care and attention.
In the month of May she was taken very ill
and it seemed beyond the power of human aid
to save her; she was so low at one time that
she ceased to breathe and it was thought she
was dead, but through mighty faith and active
nursing she was restored to life and health.
Again in the fall of the same year the babe,
Clara, had whooping cough which, to all
human appearance, threatened to destroy her
life, yet through careful nursing, faith and ad-
ministration according to the order of the
Gospel she was saved, and is to-day a healthy,
promising young woman, with the highest
possibilities of attainment in view.
 Marriages are always interesting events, and
in large households, where there are several
young people, they are generally merry making
times,—seasons to look back upon with pleas-
ure in years afterwards; so it has been in the
Horne family. The eldest daughter was married
the 15th of April 1862, to Edward M. Webb;
just twenty years ago now. They reside at
the present time in Deseret, Utah, and have
several children. The next rather important
event in the family was the mission of Joseph
Smith Horne to Europe in May 1865. His des-
tination was Switzerland. Mrs. Horne,although
a tender and affectionate mother, rejoiced that
her son was counted worthy to be called to
preach the everlasting Gospel in foreign lands,
and labor in the vineyard of his Lord and
master, and her prayers were fervent in his be-
half that he might fill the mission honorably,
laboring faithfully to convince the honest in
heart. Her prayers were answered. He went
forth in the fear of the Lord, a stranger in a
strange land, without the knowledge of the
language spoken in that country. He first
studied the German language and succeeded so
well,that in a short time he was able to preach
a little, and gradually gained so complete a
knowledge of German that he accomplished a
good work, remaining away three years and a
half. November 10th, 1867, Mrs. Horne’s
second daughter Leonora Taylor was married
to George B. Spencer, son of Elder Orson
Spencer. Ten days after their marriage the
young couple left Salt Lake City to go South
and assist in colonizing on the Muddy,—-a mis-
sion that many of the Latter-day Saints have
reason to remember. It was one of the many
difficult and laborious missions that the Saints
have had to endure in the settlement of the
desolate, barren, desert lands, in Utah. This
wedding tour was entirely different to the
fashionable trips taken nowadays. Indeed it
is scarcely possible for the young people of
Utah to appreciate what the fathers and moth-
ers, grandfathers and grandmothers have done,
and the hardships they have endured to make
these happy homes and surroundings that the
children enjoy at the present time. Mr. and
Mrs. Spencer have had several children and
have five now living. They reside in Paris,
Idaho at present—Mrs. Leonora Spencer gives
promise of being a strong-minded woman, like
her mother; is already very active in all ben-
evolent work, and has decided principles of
her own.
	The 20th of September 1868, Richard S.
Horne was married to Elizabeth Price, and on
the 18th of November of the same year Joseph
who had returned home in August from his
mission was also married; Lydia Ann Weiler,
daughter of Bishop Weiler of the third ward,
Salt Lake City, was the happy young bride.
Soon after their marriage they went to live at
Gunnison, Joseph having been called to pre-
side as Bishop over that place. He was quite
a young man to fill such a responsible position,
but he was in every way worthy the honor, and
manifested by his course the ability and enter-
prise so requisite in the performance of the
duties of a Bishop, and  father of a ward.
Mrs. Horne had then five children married
and all living so far from home that she could
not see them without taking a journey of a few
days, and at that time traveling about the
country was all done with teams.
To be Continued.


52	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1882.


THE UTAH COMMISSION.
 The Commissioners appointed by Pres. Arthur
to fix up affairs in Utah, arrived here on Friday
evening August 18. Several prominent gentle-
men of this city and vicinity went to Ogden to
meet them. They manifested a friendly feeling
towards the people, and everything passed off
pleasantly. On Saturday evening a public re-
ception was given in the Walker Opera House,
under the nuspices of Gov. Murray. A large
number of citizens both gentlemen and ladies
attended, and were introduced to the Commis-
sioners. Gov. Ramsay, Ex. Senator Paddock
Mr. Carlton, Mr. Pettigrew and Mr. Godfrey,
are the gentlemen who form the commission.
They are all from the Western States, but we
venture to say they knew comparatively little of 
Utah and its people, save what the newspapers
give. What course they will take to enforce the
Edmund's law, does not yet appear, but It will
require great wisdom, caution and judgement of
a superior quality to discriminate; and then
again there are so many interpretations of the
law itself by the lawyers, that it would really
seem as though the Edmunds bill was a second
edition of the problem, that it was designed to
explain or to do away with. As a sequel to a novel
often plunges the reader deeper into mystery
than the story itself, so it is likely to be in this
case. There is an old saying "who shall decido
when doctors disagree?” In this instance it
would be appropriate to say “who shall decide
when” congressmen “disagree?” Instead of eluci-
dating clearly to the understanding of interested
parties, Congress adds to the catalogue of unex-
plainable statutes by authorizing the Governor to
make appointments to fill vacancies that have
never existed. This puzzles the Governor and
his aids, and has, so we have been informed,
caused him to grow very serious and contem-
plative. It is an unfortunate dilemma to soy
the least of it, and looks very much as if every-
thing dono to facilitate the enforcement of the
Edmund’s law, only complicated the difficulties
to be encountered or placed another obstacle In
the way to hinder or retard the movement un-
der consideration.
 It appears the Commissioners since arriving
here have made good use of their time, and have
shown a desire to adjust matters according to
the laws and statues of Utah. After deliberat-
ing together for two days, and thoroughly ex-
amining the law in regard to elections, the fol-
lowing resolutions were adopted and furnished
for publication.
“Whereas, it is provided by the revised Stat-
utes of the United States (see. 1862) that every
territory shall have the right to send a delegate
to the house of representatives of the United
States; and as it is further provided (sec. 25)
that such election shall be held in ail the terri-
tories of the United States on the Tuesday after
the first Monday in Novembar 1882, therefore,
Resolved, That in order to prepare for such
election in the territory of Utah on the day so
established, the Commission will proceed forth-
with to appoint registration officers to revise the
lists now on file in the office of the clerk of each
of the several counties in the territory in the
manner required by law.”
This step to hold an election is legitimate and
gives the people some confidence in the fairness
of the proceedings of the commission. The re-
vision of the registration lists will be rather a
delicate matter, but one of great interest, and
will require caution as well as ability. One thing
is certain, that the people of Utah are quick of
perception and not easily deceived,they will soon
understand the true state of affairs, and whether
the law is to be administered in justice and equ-
ity, tempered with that quality, that seasons
Justice, or whether bitterness and prejudice are
a part of the element which controls those who
are to be actively engaged in carrying out the
wishes of the Congress of the United States. It
is the earnest wish of every true Latter-day
Saint that these Commissioners should investi-
gate for themselves, and not depend upon Dame
Rumor, and act as wise dispensers of the law
and as those who love their fellow-men.


[Column 1]
DESERET HOSPITAL CONCERT.

	The Concert in the Tabernacle, Thursday
evening August 10, was quite a brilliant affair.
The building was illuminated with eight electric
lights, the effect being most intensely beautiful.
Everything had been arranged in perfect order,
so there was no jar or confusion, and all worked
harmoniously. Pres. Angus M. Cannon offered
prayer, and also made a few remarks to the audi-
ence, expressing a desire that there should be no
loud laughter or boisterous applause, no clapping
of hands or stamping of feet, on account of its
being a place of divine worship. The orchestra
under the management of Prof. C. J. Thomas
played some of their choice music in the best
manner. The children trained by Mr. Evan
Stevens, did their part wonderfully well, their
fresh young voices ringing out full and clear in
rich strains of melody. Bro. Stevens has had
great patience and tact to accomplish so much in
so short a time, and deserves the thanks and
gratitude of the public he is serving so faithfully.
The Tabernacle choir in charge of Prof. Beesley,
rendered their part of the performance excel-
lently well; the selection from the "Messiah"
"He shall feed his flock," was admirably ex-
ecuted. The "Harvest Moon" by the choir was
another charming feature of the entertainment.
The Mendelssohn Club, added greatly to the en-
joyment of the evening, their songs being well
chosen and harmoniously given.
	The songs given by Miss Nellie Druce, Miss
Laura Nebeker and Miss Agnes Olsen, were
highly appreciated; all these young ladies are
talented singers, and great favorites of the peo-
ple. Mr. H. Gardner appeared in a song, which
delighted the audience, and Mr. E. Stevens
sung in character "The Old Maid" or "I'm 95."
He has a wonderful voice and it rang out on the
very highest notes clear as a bell. The song was
a comic one as its title indicates and a little ebul-
lition of enthusiastic appreciation was given, in
as quiet a way as was possible in a crowded
assembly. The Concert being in a place dedi-
cated to sacred worship, no loud applause could
be permitted. The evening's entertainment
closed with a benediction by Elder George
Goddard, one of the executive committee of ar-
rangements.
	The Officers of the Deseret Hospital Associa-
tion desire to return their thanks and gratitude
to all the musicians, singers and children, who so
kindly proffered their services for the benefit of
the Hospital enterprise, and trust they will

[Column 2]
never regret using their time and talent in this
humane direction. Great credit is due to the
musical committee for their assiduity and faith-
fulness in making the performance so creditable
in every respect. And while we desire to be
just to all, we should not forget Mr. Joseph
Daynes, who accompanied the choir on the large
organ and who added to the enjoyment by his
fine organ solo.
	Financially the Concert was not so successful
as some of the committee had anticipated, the
whole of the proceeds only amounting to $848,
70,—expenditures $118,65, leaving $780,05. Of
this cash $598,45 orders $131.60. Included in
this amount was a donation from one of our
brethren of $50,00—who styled himself "a friend
to the enterprise."
	The question is frequently asked by those not
familiar with the work of establishing the Hos-
pital. "Have you many patients in the building
yet?" In order that the public may have some
idea of what is going on in the incipient stages
of the opening, we will publish the report of the
medical board for the month of July, which only
commenced with the 8th. of that month end-
ing with the 31st.

	Medical report of the Deseret Hospital for the
month of July 1882. Paitents received into the
Hospital 7. Died 1. Discharged none. Remain-
ing 6. Out patients prescribed for by the house-
surgeon 3. Operation-ovariotomy. Visits by
the visiting board Dr. S. B. Young 31—Dr. W.
F. Anderson, 5, prescriptions and treatment by
the house surgeon 57 [signed] E. B. Ferguson,
House Surgeon.


HOME AFFAIRRS.
	The sisters who are putting up fruit, jelly and
so forth, would center a favor upon the sick and
afflicted if they would put up a few cans extra
for the Deseret Hospital.
	We return our sincere thanks to the officers of
the American Woman’s Suffrage Assaciation for
the very kind and cordial invitation extended to
us, likewise our dear friend Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, who has also received a special invita-
tion to attend the Convention, to be held in
Omaha Sept, 12 and 13. We publish elsewhere
the official announcement.
	We have been requested to remind the sisters
who preside in each of the branch Societies, in
this Stake of Zion, that it will be necessary to
furnish a six months report in good time, for the
coming Conference to be held on Friday the
22d of September, in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms. Secretaries ehould be particularly
prompt in this matter. Each Society should be
represented by the President if possible, or if not
by one of her Counselors or Secretary.
Presiden[-]s of Relief Society Y. L. M. I. A.
and P. A. who preside In the several Stakes of
Zion will please romembor that full semi-annual
reports of these organizations in their respective
Stakes should be forwarded to the Secretary of
the central board early enough to be incorpor-
ated into tbe general report, which is due at
Pres. John Taylor’s office ten days previous to
the coming October Conference. Secretaries
are hereby notified to forward said reports of
Relief Society to Sarah M. Kimball, Salt Lake
City. Y. L. M. I. A. to Louie Wells, Care
Woman’s Exponent. P. A. to Lillie Freeze,
Salt Lake City.
On Thursday August 17, Hon. George Q. Can-
non returned from Washington, whither he
went last fall, as the duly elected delegate to the
Congress of the United States. A party [ink stain on edge of page]
gentlemen and ladies from this city met hi[-] [ink stain on edge of page]
Ogden, according him the honor du[-] to his [ink stain on edge of page]


ition as the people's representative. However
as is well known all over the country, Mr. Can-
non was refused his seat in the House, and Utah
left without representation. The people were
thus deprived of their just rights as citizens of a
great and growing Republic. It is a matter of
deep regret to all lovers of justice and fairness
that such occurrences should take place, especial-
ly when no accusation could be sustained against
him, except on account of his religion; Pres.
Cannon is highly respected in Washington as we
have good reason to know, his record is clear
there without a blot. The people of Utah
hold him in the highest estimation, and he will
live in the hearts of thousands of honest men
and women forever, notwithstanding the decis-
ion of Congress. He was accompanied home by
Bro. John Irvine whose letters from Washing-
ton to the Deseret News have given its readers
Congressional items, in such an intelligent and
agreeable style.
	Meeting at Farmer's Ward S. L. Co. Tuesday
Aug. 22d, 1882, called to organize a Primary
Association, Bishop Louis Mousley present, also
Elder Willard Snow, Superintendent of the
Sunday School of the Ward. The Bishop re-
quested Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith to take
charge of the meeting and organize. Children
sang "We thank thee, O God for a prophet."
Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne, sung "O, my
Father" etc. Sister Eliza then made some re-
marks to the children, and the following officers
were nominated and sustained. Mrs. Sarah A.
Cannon, President; Mrs. Reba B. Pratt and
Miss Mamie Alice Cannon, Counselors; Miss
Clara Woodruff, Secretary; Master Hugh Can-
non, Assistant Secretary and Master Joseph S.
Mousley, Treasurer. Thirty-six names were en-
rolled as members. Sister Eliza gave some ex-
cellent instruction to the children and Sisters
E. C. Clawson, E. S. Taylor, M. I. Horne and
E. B. Wells each occupied a few moments in
addressing the children. Sung "Praise ye the
Lord," benediction by the Bishop.
	At noon the ladies repaired to the residence of
Mrs. Emma Woodruff, where a delicious dinner
was served. At two p. m. there was a special
meeting of the Relief Society, Mrs. Emma
Woodruff presiding. After singing and prayer,
minutes were read, and the meeting was ad-
dressed by Sisters M. I. Horne, Helen Mar
Whitney, E. S. Taylor, R. R. Grant, E. B.
Wells and Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. Many
interesting subjects were alluded to and ideas
thrown out and suggestions made, calculated to
do much good if put in practise.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PRIMARY SPEAKER.
"Recitations for the Primary Associations in
Poetry, Dialogues and Prose,” by Eliza R. Snow
Smith, is now ready for sale. The long talked
of book prepared for the children of Zion, by one
who has published so much for them, and as-
sisted so ably in organizations for their spiritual
cultivation and progress, is now completed, and
we think will meet the approbation of the public.
It contains 200 pages, and the author says is
"Adapted to the capacities of members from the
ages of ten to fifteen years.” The first page con-
tains “A Few Hints To Presiding Officers.”
The selections have been judiciously and care-
fully made, and the original pieces as well, are in
perfect keeping with the faith and teaching of
the Latter-day Saint.
 This work has been greatly needed in the As-
sociations, and we trust the presiding sisters
will avail themselves of the first opportunity to
bring it into use in all the various settle-
ments. The Book can be procured at the Des-
eret Kewa Office, and at the Office of WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. Price 25 cts.


THE PRESENT CRUSADE.

DEAR EDITOR:--If you will allow me a small
space in your paper, I would like to express a
few of my thoughs on the present crusade
against us as a people.
	I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in my native land (England) before
polygamy was heard of, yet, we were persecuted
then, as now, because we believed Joseph Smith
was a prophet, and that he had received revela-
tion from heaven. Our dearest friends turned
against us, and  all were bitter in denouncing
that great delusion. If we should discard poly-
gamy from our faith to morrow they would find
some plea against us.  We said we would go to
America, where we could enjoy liberty of con-
science, and be protected under the broad folds
of the American flag and the liberal Constitution
framed by noble men inspired as we believe by
heaven. Now I feel humiliated and ashamed
for our friends across the water, to read of the
Bills passed by Congress against us.
	Oh! members of Congress and rulers of the
nation, for your own sakes and that of your
families, pause well, and consider ere you as-
sume the grave responsibility of separating
wives from their husbands, and children from
their parents, and breaking up our happy homes
in these peaceful vales.  "Let them cast the
beam from their own eyes," cleanse their own
platter and see who among them is prepared to
cast the first stone.  But it is only here in Utah
that sin and wickedness exists, all they do is
justified.  It is too true, there is much among
ua that is grievous and sinful, but who have we
to thank for introducing temptations and bad
examples to lead our youth, away from the paths
of virtue and temperance? Many have been led
away but the majority have a germ within them
though latent and they would, if called upon,
rise up and defend their religion, and resent the
abuse heaped upon the heads of their aged
parents.
	Are we fearful and discouraged? Not in the
least, persecution does us good; we are rather
used to it.  Former persecutions are not obliter-
ated from our memories, besides, it prevents us
from getting into that deplorable state of neither
hot nor cold, of whom the Lord says He "will
spew them out of his mouth."
	In him we trust, and he will never desert his
faithful people.			E. BENTLY.


TO THE Y. L. M. I. A.—CACHE STAKE.
 Dear Sisters: As we wish all the Y.L.M
I.A. in the Stake to work as uniformly as pos-
sible, we deem it necessary to make the follow-
ing suggestions. We wish to be represented in
the Annual Fair this fall. Therefore desire you
to hold meetings at least once in two weeks, for,
the purpose of making articles of fancy work,
as the members of your association, have talent
and taste for making. Such as fine needle work
of all kinds, artificial flowers, in was, cloth, tar
latan, zephyr, and hair, also crotchet work, nett-
ing and knitting; embroidery in silk and cotton.
The best articles to be selected and sent to the
Fair, where they can be sold, thereby creating a
fund to defray the expenses of your Society. If
not sold, held subject to your order. Hold your
regular meetings once a week; encourage a more
thorough reading of our Church works. We
would like toseeall of the columns of the Blanks,
filled ont more fully than the present ones.
**We require one dollar from every associ-
ation In our Stake to be sent to the secretary
(Ally Martineau) to defray the expenditures of
the Central Board for stationery, stamps, etc.
We wish the President, or at least one of her
Counselors, to be present at our Confer-


ence, to be held In Logan on the 20th of May,
to give a verbal report of her Association. We
let you know this early that you may have time
to make your arrangements. When any of your
members are called upon for reading an essay,
or to look up Bible references, to sing a song, to
speak, or write upon any subject, do not allow
them to think they can refuse, but impress it
upon them, that it is their duty to respond to
every call that is made upon them, from time to
time. Use your influence to have them testify
to the great blessings, that we enjoy as a people,
and also to the truth of the Gospel of Christ.
Cultivate a disposition to bear with each other
in taking a part in the meetings. Strengthen
and encourage, rather than criticise the efforts
that are made by your members to discharge
the duties which may be required of them. En-
courage cleanliness in person, and neatness in
dress. When you cannot be present at your
meetings have your Counselors conduct them,
if they cannot attend, appoint some one to take
charge. Your meetings must be kept up regular-
ly. Use chaste and refined language in all your
conversation. Discountenance back-biting or
evil speaking. Strive to obtain the spirit of the
Lord, which will lead you into all truth and
virtue. Continue your meetings until other-
wise notified. May the blessings of the Lord
attend your efforts to improve in all good works,
is ever the prayer of your co-laborers in the
cause of Mutual Improvement.
Your Sisters In the Gospel. 
(Signed)		HARRIET A. PRESTON,
			IDA IONE COOK,
			KINNIE B. CAINE.
				Stake Presidency.
Logan, March 29th, 1882.


﻿OBITUARY.

	With regret we record the death of Elizabeth
beloved wife of Samuel H. Bennion, and
daughter of Adam and Jennet Sharp, who died
at Vernon, Tooele County July 27th, 1882.
Sister Bennion was born Nov. 24th 1853 in Salt
Lake City, was a good, faithful, and energetic
Latter-day Saint; and held the office of Secre-
tary in the Relief Society of Vernon. Her
death has cast a deep gloom over our little settle-
ment, for she was esteemed and beloved by us
all. She was the mother of one son and three
daughters, surviving the birth of the third only
ten hours, mother and babe were laid away to
rest in the same coffin. She leaves a husband
and two little girls and many friends to mourn
her untimely end. May God comfort the
bereaved.
	"I am so tired, so tired"
	God heard the piteous cry
	In yonder courts on high,
	Gave thee the rest desired
	Though stricken hearts in angush weep
	"He giveth his beloved sleep."
							E. A. B.


LOA FREEMONT RELIEF SOCIETY.

	A reorganization of the Relief Society of Loa
Freemont Ward, Plute Co. in the Sevier Stake
of Zion, was effected June 23, 1882 by Bishop E.
H. Blackburn and Counselors. The following
officers were elected and sustained. President
Mrs. Alice Darton, Counselors Mrs. Mary Eliot
and V. L. Blackburn, Secretary Sarah J. Black-
burn, Assistant Secretary Hannah Blackburn,
Treasurer, Maria Young, Assistant Treasurer
Persis Young; Presiding Teacher, Nancy Black-
burn.
	The Society is in good working order, with
an efficient quorum of teachers, and such aids as
are needed to carry on the work, and accomplish
much good. The sisters in this Ward are de-


sirous of doing good and uniting with those en-
gaged in advancing the higher interests of the
Latter-day Saints.
		SARAH J. BLACKBURN, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

FIRST WARD PRIMARY.

	Meeting of the First Ward Primary Associ-
ation held in the schoolhouse August 8th, 1882.
After the usual opening exercises over eight
dollars was awarded as prizes to the members,
who had articles on exhibition at the late Prim-
ary Fair. Miss Anna Van Tassel was also
given a lovely pair of vases as sweep stakes
prize, she having had the most articles on ex-
hibition on the girls' side. George Hill re-
ceived a neat pocket book for having the most
on the boys' side. Secretary Julia A. Young
was presented with a lovely Autograph Album
as a token of appreciation for her faithful
labor. President A. M. B. Fletcher presented
Counselor Mary W. Musser with a handsome
vase and bouquet of artificial flowers, both
made by herself. Some who had not earned,
consequently did not receive prizes. All of
the means taken in at the Fair was given to
the children. The President and Counselors
thinking it best to encourage them, thinking
so small a sum would do more good that way
than any other. The President advised the
children to spend their money in getting ma-
terial to make up, so that they would be better
prepared in case of another Fair.
				JULIA A. YOUNG, Secretary.

RICHMOND, Y. L. M. I. A.

	Editor Exponent: A meeting for the re-
organization of our Association, was held on
the 15th of Feb. 1882. Bishop Wm. L. Skid-
more presiding. The following officers were
chosen and set apart: Miss Alice J. Thompson,
President; Mrs. Harriet H. Fisher, first Coun.;
Miss Maggie W. Thompson, second Coun.;
Miss Rhoda L. Merrill, Secretary; Mrs Maggie
C. Hobson, assistant Secretary and Miss Car-
oline Isaacson, Treasurer. We have seventy
names enrolled; and have held about twenty
testimonial meetings. We are holding work-
ing meetings two hours, once a week now.
	We have paid the donations required of us
by the Deseret Hospital Association, since the
notice was received, and will endeavor to do
what is required of us in the future. As sisters
in the Gospel, we are trying to do the best we
can. May the blessings of the Lord attend
your labors.
			I remain your sister.
				MAGGIE C. HOBSON,
							Asst. Sec'y.

SLATERVILLE.

	Dear Editor: The Primary Association of
Slaterville was organized November 15th, 1880.
Bishop John A. Alred, Sisters Jane S. Rich-
ards, Josephine West and several others from
Ogdon were present. Ann Holley was chosen
President, Phebe Singleton and Mary Kasy,
Counselors and Sarah, Stevens Secretary; fifty-
three names enrolled. We hold our meetings
once a week, the children take a great interest
in their meetings. Last winter the measles
made a great deal of sickness among us, and
one of our Primary members, a bright boy of
six years, George E. Knight and his baby
brother died from its effects; and while we
mourn with the bereaved parents, we feel that
death has been here and stolen away a flower
from our midst; but we hope to live so that we
may meet again where death will never part
us from those we love so dearly.
	We held our third conference June 19th.
Bishop John A. Alred and Counselors present.

[Column 2]
E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H.
Yonng, Jane S. Richards and several others
were on the stand. The children rendered
their exercises well, and received great credit
for good order and beautiful singing. "Sister
Eliza" speaking in tongues blest them and
Zina D. H. Young gave the interpretation.
It was a day long to be remembered. The
sisters met with the Relief Society in the after-
noon and gave much good instruction, which
I think we shall not forget. The next day,
June 20th, we celebrated the seventy seventh
birthday of our Relief Society President.
There were present about fifty of her children,
grand children, and great grand children and
a number of friends. At 4 o'clock the Primary
children, assembled with musicians to play
the violin; after a recitation and songs an ad-
dress to Sister Field was given in verse, and a
motto presented, bearing these words "No
Cross, No Crown." The children and grown
people then joined in dancing till nearly sun-
down; we then bid her good night in concert,
and left her to the enjoyment of the society of
her family and friends.
	We enclose you the address to President
Field, because it was composed conjointly by
one of our young ladies and one of our Pri-
mary girls. She desires an interest in the
prayers of all faithful saints. We pray for
success to all your endeavors in the advance-
ment of the cause of Zion. The EXPONENT
is ever a welcome visitor with us.
						ANN HOLLEY.
						PHEBE SINGLTON.

FAIR VIEW.

	Editor Exponent: The Relief Society of
Fair View held their fourteenth annual meet-
ing July 14th, 1882. Prest. M. A. Pritchett
presiding. After the usual exercises, reading
of minutes and reports, the officers were pre-
sented and sustained. Good and encouraging
remarks were made by Bros. C. K. Hanson,
Archibald Anderson and others of the breth-
ren. The afternoon was spent in songs, recit-
ations etc., and ended with a picnic. There
was a party given in the evening at which all
enjoyed themselves.
	Our Financial Report for the last year is as
follows: receipts cash, $202.50. Property $103.
68. Wheat, 212 bushels. Disbursed Temple
$99.84. Poor, $20.00. Missionaries, $16.90.
On hand in Coop store, $241.00. Cash $3.75.
Property, $22.56. Cash for factory $133.00.
Wheat, 764 bushels. There has also been
about forty dollars worth of cheese made by
the Society which has mostly been sold for
	wheat.
Wishing success to your valuable paper and
to the good cause, we remain
		Your Sisters in the Gospel.
			MARY A. PRITCHETT, Prest.
			LOIS A. WILSON. Cor. Secy.

EAST BOUNTIFUL.

	Report of Primary Fair held at East Boun-
tiful, July the 11th, 12th and 13th, under the
direction of Mrs. Ann Dustin, President, with
her assistants. Many things were on exhibition
that were useful and ornamental. One pair of
stockings knit by a little girl nine years old.
Two cushions made of velvet and satin, one of
unraveled yarn. One chemise made by a little
girl twelve years old, one quilt made by a little
girl seven years old; three balls of carpet-rags
sewed by a little girl; two quilts pieced by two
girls, ages eleven and thirteen,and a number of
quilts pieced by others; a number of blocks
pieced by very small girls; a number of pieces
of lace; two petticoats nicely embroidered; one
pair of garters knit by a little girl, and em-
broidered pillowslips; a number of wool mats
and home knit curtains; a fine beaded necklace
made by a girl eleven years old; a very pretty

[Column 3]
case of wax flowers; a home-made basket with
specimens from Soda Springs; a nice bunch of
wool flowers; one beautiful case of wool flowers
in a frame; one case worked on velvet; one box
of wool flowers handsomely made by a little
girl; twenty-five tidies; fifteen mottoes beauti-
fully worked; one worked well by a little girl
six years old; quite a number of cornucopias
and hanging baskets; ornamental match boxes;
pictures framed by little girls; a horse and two
cats cut out of cloth by a little girl; some very
fine bread made and baked by a little girl; one
cake nicely made and ornamented; also bottled
fruit, raspberries aad rhubarb; two maps of the
United States by a girl age fourteen years, and
one of the Western States by a girl eight years
old. The boys' department consisted of two
wheel-barrows, one large and one small; a
medium sized rake; a shovel; plow; a cultiv-
ator and one shovel; one knife and fork; one
rolling pin, and potato masher; one map of
South America drawn and painted by a boy
ten years old; hard words spelled and printed
by a boy eight years old; some vegetables
raised by the little boys, also some fruit. The
house was tastefully decorated with ever-greens
and vases of flowers and smoke-tree.
	Sister Porter, President of Centerville Pri-
mary, and Counselor, with a number of Pri-
mary children, came to visit the FAIR, and
President Hatch with her Counselor and some
of their Primary children came to visit us
and we had a very interesting time.
			ANN DUSTIN, President.
			SARAH DAVIS, Asst. Secretary.


ARABI PASHA.
It appears, from an account given by an
Arab lady, as related to a Cairene correspond-
ent, that his name is Ahmed el Arabi, the
latter being “an appellative by which he is
known among his fellows because of his descent
from the Arabs in contradistinction to the
Egyptians.” He was educated to the laws, but
longed for more active life.
“He left the mosque of el-Azharand entered
the army of the Khedive of Egypt. At this
time the nation of the Pranks called the Me-
likans were in war against their black tillers
of the soil, who refused to plow and sow and
plant cotton for their Melikan masters; for
which reason, said Husnah, cotton rose great-
ly in price throughout Egypt, and El-Uraby
grew rich by the cotton raised on his estate
near el-Wijh, which he had received from his
father. Uraby was not greatly favored by the
then Khedive of Egypt, Ismael Pasha. He
did not rise above the rank of a major. His
ambition had led him on three different occa-
sions to endeavor to obtain the rank of bey or
colonel. But Khedive Ismael had replied to
the general advocating the cause of Uraby's
promotion, with the words, ‘If I create him a
colonel, he will create a revolt in the regiment
under his command in less than six months.'
“But the foreordained purposes of God could,
not be defeated, not even by a mighty khedive,
Ismael was deposed by our master the sultan
and soon after Tewfik, his son, came to be ruler
of the Egyptian regions; he bestowed upon
Arabi the rank and title of bey. He is now a
soldier and scholar, learned in the arts of war,
and well grounded in the doctrines of our di-
vine faith. He is beloved of the army as a
bold and fearless warrior, and has the good
wishes of the religious body of law doctors,
for they are sure that he will use his worldly
sword for the honor and glory of God, and to
the great good of the Arab Moslem world,
even as is denoted by his name, Ahmad el-
Uraby; that is, I, praise God, I,the descendant
of the true Arab.”—Ex.


When you give to others, give cheerf[----]
There is no blessing from an unwilling offe[---]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿FROM MESA CITY.

	Our esteemed President, Elder Mc'Donald,
having recently returned from an extended
trip to Utah, our Relief Society extended to
him as a fitting tribute to his worthy labors a
public welcome. A party was given in the
school-house, the room beautifully decorated
for the occasion with handsome pictures, mot-
toes and evergreens. "Welcome," in large letters
was placed at the head of the Hall. An ad-
dress of welcome was given after which the
song "Home Again" was delightfully rendered
by the members of the choir, which was fol-
lowed by several choice pieces of music inter-
spersed with dancing and a short speech by Br.
Bunless and Prest. Mc'Donald. The President
was very much gratified at the kindly feelings
expressed towards himself and family. Thus
passed one of the most pleasant reunions that
has ever been experienced in our prosperous
little settlement on the Mesa.
					S. M. POMEROY.
	August 2. 1882.


﻿THE CAUSE IN KENTUCKY.

	Mrs. Lizzie D. Fyler, writing of the gains
in Kentucky, says:
	At the close of the convention of the Amer-
ican Woman Suffrage Association, at  Louis-
ville, the first society in Kentucky was formed.
Although but a few months old, it has already
become a power for good, as the following bills
which were before the State Legislature will
show.
	1. A property rights bill, giving married
women the right to own real and personal pro-
perty obtained by descent, gift, purchase, or
her own earnings; and to manage, sell, convey
and dispose of the same, by will or otherwise,
to the extent, and in the manner permitted the
husband in property belonging to him. To
give to the wife the same interest in the lands
of the deceased husband that the husband
now has in the lands of the deceased wife, and
permitting a married woman to sue and make
contracts the same as an unmarried woman.
	2. A bill to confer upon the wife equal right
to her infant children's person and property
with the husband.
	3. A bill to anthorize the employment of
women physicians in the Insane Asylum, and
as members of boards of visitors in all charit-
able and penal institutions where women com-
pose part of their inmates.
	4. A bill granting the right to practice law
in the courts of the State, subject to no other
requirements than men.
	5. A bill requiring that women be paid the
same wages as men for the same work in pub-
lic institutions.
	6. A bill conferring upon women the fran-
chise in presidential and municipal affairs.
	That these bills have been well received, and
the property rights bill adopted, adds another
evidence of the truth of the argument that
however kind may be man's intention toward
woman he can never deal justly by her until
she is allowed a voice in making the laws to
which she must submit.
	No one doubts the chivalry of the gentle-
men of Kentucky, and yet upon their statute
books the old barbaric English laws for women
have remained unmodified, until women con-
verted to the new creed of "universal free-
dom," have in the name of justice demanded
that, as representatives of the nineteenth cen-
tury, they should no longer be bound by a
code of laws, cruel and unjust even in the
[----]ess of the sixteenth century which gave
	While we rejoice over the good accomplished
[----] few months by the brave daughters of
[----]cky, we are led back forty years to a


Believe me to be your sister in the Gospel
of Christ.
				SARAH A. FULLMER.
	Castle Dale Emery Co.	Aug. 9 1882.


GLORY AND BEAUTY.

	In addition, to the much quoted phrase, that
order is heaven's first law, by a rough glance
at the trees and flowers, we may conclude that
beauty is also much appreciated there, but
when we examine the latter more closely, and
see how delicately and perfectly they are
formed, and beautifully colored, the fact is
forcibly impressed on our minds.
	It may also be corroborated by perusing
God's instructions to Moses, in reference to the
garments of Aaron and his sons, to be worn
while in the Priest's office. The Lord said,
“and thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron,
thy brother, for glory and for beauty. And
thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted,
whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom,
that they may make Aaron's garments to con-
secrate him." Following we find what mater-
ials were to be used viz. gold, blue, purple,
scarlet, and fine linen; afterwards how they
should be made, the ephod was to be made of
all the foregoing materials with 'cunning work'
the breast plate of judgment was to be made
with 'cunning work' and the twelve stones that
were set in it, bearing the names of the Twelve
Tribes were precious and beautiful as the
diamond, emerald, sapphire, agate, amethyst,
etc., and they were to be set in gold. The
chain was to be of pure gold, of wreathen
work. Aaron's coat was to be embroidered,
and the girdle of needle-work, while the bonnets
were to be made "for glory and for beauty."
	In the 31st chap. of Exodus we read, "And
the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 'See I have
called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, *  *
and I have filled him with the Spirit of God,
in wisdom, and in understanding, and in know-
ledge, and in all manner of workmanship. To
devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in
silver, and in brass. And in cutting of stones,
to set them, and in carving of timber, to work
in all manner of workmanship, * *  * and
in the hearts of all that are wise-hearted I have
put wisdom, that they may make all that I have
commanded thee."
	Thus we see how particular God was to give
the instructions, and qualify men to carry them
out, even to them that were wise-hearted He
gave more wisdom.
	He also gave precise instructions regarding
the Tabernacle the children of Israel built, and
Solomon's Temple. In the age He gave Joseph
Smith directions regarding the Kirtland and
other Temples. The tables containing the ten
commandments were made by God, "and the
writing was the writing of God, graven upon the
tables." From that we must infer that He is
sometimes engaged differently to what the
majority of people believe.  He “planted a
garden” and made coats of skins for Adam and
Eve, and gave the pattern for Noah's ark, thus, 
Parley P. Pratt says, introducing the art of 
ship-building. He also gave many directions
to the Jaredites and the people of Lehi.
	From the foregoing we see, He has been en-
gaged in some of the pursuits in which thous-
ands are employed at the present time.
	Being unchangable He could not deviate
from his admiration of glory and beauty, so,
should not we cultivate in our own, a most
prominent trait of his character and have every
thing connected with his service in accordance
with his will for "Where two or three are
gathered together in my name, there am I in
the midst of them," in short have everything
connected with it executed and arranged "for
glory and for beauty.
					ANN FELLOWS.


A VOICE FROM THE MOUNTAINS.
DEAR EDITOR—Having juat read some of
your valuable papers, and thinking perhaps
you would be interested in the welfare of your
sisters in this far-off country; I take the liberty
of addressing a few lines to you: allow me in
the first place to congratulate you on the able
manner in which the paper is conducted.
 I am truly delighted at the progress my
sisters are making in the great work of the last
days, in the defence of righteousness and true
principles upon the earth.  I am living in a
new country, with no Relief Society, or any of
the Associations for the improvement of the
young, yet we enjoy the Spirit of God, and we
feel one with our more favored sisters. We
are blessed with a healthy climate, with the
pure mountain air to strengthen us; we have
for the most part, a good people who are striv-
ing to live their religion; we have a great work
to do, to combat the evil influences from the
outside element, that are seeking to draw away
our young.  We have a Sunday School that is
doing pretty well, but we need a great deal of
good sound teaching, amongst our children,
hence the necessity of organizations among the
sisters to help along the work of our Heavenly
Father, and help establish more fully the order
of the kingdom of heaven in these waste places
of Zion’s land. We read with much interest
the papers, and are led to exclaim Oh, man,
vain man! that undertakes to measure arms
with God” to circumscribe the path of Deity!
“to stamp out” what God has instituted for the
exaltation of the human family, and for the
advancement of the children of men in the
kingdom of God.  I am a plural wife,  have
lived in that order of marriage for 20 years,
have a family of 12 children, all born under
the patriarchal order of marriage, and feel an
interest in the present contest.  Senator
Calkins in his speech in the house says,“Plura
wives must be forsaken, polygamy must yield.”
What! break up such family ties? Scatter such
families broadcast in the land, children that
have been born under the “stars and stripes”
in a free country; born under the only true
marriage law on the earth, proclaim them out-
casts?  No! the Lord will deal with such men
as dare say  these things, we fear them not.
The Lord sent an angel unto Joseph Smith,
commanding him to inaugurate the patriachal
system of marriage, and who dare say “it shall
be stamped out?” The Lord holds the helm,
and He will allow our enemies to go so far, and
no farther;  they are fighting against God.
He will order all things for the good of his
people inasmuch as they keep his command-
ments, and live up to the light of the Gospel,
the Saints need not fear, only for themselves
lest they should stumble, then let the wicked
proceed with their nefarions work; but let us
look well to ourselves, and keep the spirit of
meekness and prayer, that love and kindness,
and long suffering may abide with us.  Let us
seek unto the Lord for strength and wisdom, to
guide us in the ways of truth and righteousness,
let us as a band of sisters help to sustain our
brethren in the noble work of elevating the
human family, until they shall be fit to enter
into the presence of our God.  Let us do our
duty towards our children as mothers in Israel,
teaching them to honor their God, to honor the
priesthood, to honor the principles under which
they were born, and every principle revealed
for the exaltation of the children of men.  We
are living in the last days, when it will not do
for us to “stand still and see the salvation of
the Lord” but we must put forth our might
and influence to combat the power of the ad-
versary, that is seeking to destroy our children.
Then let us lift up our voices and defend our
religion and the principles of righteousness,
“and freedom to worship God according to
the dictates of our own consciences,"


time when the pioneers in woman's emancip-
ation dared to assert their individuality, and
demanded the rightd of human beings. The
church which had so long held woman in bond-
age, arose in her might and denounced the
new movement as the work of the evil one, and
ordered the brave women who saw a vision,
they saw not, back to their household drudgery,
to ignorance and darkness,  "their God-given
sphere."  A power higher than man's had
called them to a great work, and from that
neither threats nor terrors should drive them.
In forty years how has that work progressed!
Instead of the house-hold drudge, ignorant of
the laws of life and health, we have the wise
and thoughtful mother with her babe clothed
and fed with an enlightened regard for health,
and no longer with a blind devotion to
beauty.
 To these forty years of labor the women of
to-day owe the victories which are so surely
hastening on the time when our beloved coun-
try shall become in truth the "land of the free,"
as it has ever been the "home of the brave.'
-- Woman's Journal.


﻿W O M A N ’ S   E X P O N E N T.


ART DECORATIVE.

	"About no bit of modern decoration is there
such a glamour of romance as that associated
with the silver-mounted drinking-horn, hung
amid mock shields and battle trophies.  Even
in an ordinary dining-room, in spite of incon-
gruous surroundings, it carries one back to the
rude ages when its graceful prototype, jeweled
and banded with metal, and surrounded by
the mighty weapons of the Norman chief, re-
flected from shining faces the glow and life
of the ruddy, leaping flames of banquet torch-
es.  But to come back to the present, there
seems to be a renaissance of horn decoration.
Not only are the antlers of the moose, the
reindeer and caribou in request; but the long,
beautifully curved and glossy horns of the wild
steers of the far West, South America, Italy
and Spain.  the horns of the last two coun-
tries are very long, finely curved, and, like the
American, exquisite in coloring, showing mot-
tlings and cloudings of sea-green fading to
amber; brown melting into pearly grey, which,
in turn, deepens to vivid black at the extreme
tips.  These horns have, from fineness of tex-
ture, a natural gloss,  which enhanced by art,
becomes fine polish.
	"Mounted in pairs, in some cases with the
polished hoof of the steer, which also shows
lovely coloring between the horns, they make
beautiful decorations to hang over dining-room
enterances or mantels.  They should spring
from panels of bronzed metal, or oak dark in
color; a light, modern flowered wall-paper
would form an incongruous setting for su.ch a
decoration, or for the graceful antlers of the
stag.
 “The American steer horns, for their lesser
length, are more suitable for decorations such
as drinking-horns, tankards, powder-flasks and
flower-holders. These can be purchased in
various sizes, ready polished, tipped and furn-
ished with chains to hang by, and at reason-
able prices.  The horns of our domestic steer,
when fine ones can be selected, are capable of
receiving a fine polish.  These and the horns
of the wild Western and Southern steers are
bought up largely for manufacturing purposes,
but may be obtained by ordering from some
wholesale dealer, taxidermist,  naturalist,  or
from an abattoir.  Steer horns being composed
largely of albumen and gelationous substances,
may be easily softened by heat and twined
into various forms,  therefore easily lend-
ing themselves to decoration. Beautiful
cups and tankards may be made from
horns.”—Art Interchange.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Many a rich man makes a poor husband,
and many a poor girl makes the richest wife.--
The Great West.

	Train a child to understand or feel a prin-
ciple and  apply it, not merely to remember 
and obey a rule.--F. B. Perkins.

	"I propose to do all I can for the enlarge-
ment of woman's rights, while I am Governor
of Indiana."--[Governor Porter.

	"Governor St. John, of Kansas, says he hopes
women will soon have the right to vote for
those who are to govern them."

	"I go for all sharing the privileges of the
government who assist in bearing its burdens,
by no means excluding women."--[Abraham 
Lincolon. 

	Mrs. Scott-Siddons is quoted as having said:
"An American servant will tie on her veil in a
natty, graceful way that an English duchess
knows nothing about."

	"A man cannot argue against woman suf-
frage five minutes without repudiating the
principles upon which this government is
founded."--[U. S. Senator Hoar.

	The Quiz, a sprightly weekly published in
Philadelphia, is entirely under the control of
women.   Mrs. Mary Hall it its business mana-
ger and Mrs. Florence O. Duncan editor-in-
chief.

	Governor Baker recently said to the gradu-
ating class of the Indianapolis Female College.
"Young Ladies, prepare yourselves for the
duties of full citizenship because it is in the in-
evitable, whether you desire it or not."--Ex.

	That is not wisdom, it is not piety, it is not
reverence for venerable things, it is stagnation,
it is timidity,  often it it mental indolence,
sometimes it is refines but intense selfishness,
which holds a preacher still in ancient ruts of
ministration, through fear of ministering to
unnatural excitements.  We had better do
some things wrong than to do nothing,--Austin
Phelps.

	The heart will tell its own tale; under some
circumstances the heart will have its own way;
it is useless to tell the heart that no good can
come of this or that--the heart finds good in
unexpected places, and draws honey from
flowers that have not been suspected of bear-
ing honey by any naturalist or herbalist. There
is a time when sorrow becomes sweetness;
such is the mystery and such  graciousness
of life, that loss turns itself into a sort of
gain,—Joseph Parker.
The majority in the House of Lords (132)
who threw out the bill to legalise marriage with
a deceased wife's sister was made up of 8 dukes,
5 marquises, 35 earls, 7 viscounts, 17 bishops
(including the Archbishop of York), and 60
peers who sit as barons.  The minority (128)
included the Prince of Wales, the Duke of
Edinburgh, and the Duke of Albany, 9 dukes,
3 marquises, 29 earls, 8 viscounts, and 76 peers
sitting as barons.  No member of the episcopal
bench supported the bill.  The Archbishop of
Canterbury was among the absentees.  The
dukes who voted for the bill were Hamilton,
Cleveland, Portland, St.  Albans, Sutherland,
Westminster, Roxburghe, Athole, and Leinster,
and the marquises Abergavenny,  Aylesbury,
and Northampton.  The Dukes who opposed
the measure were Buckimgham and Chandos,
Leeds, Marlborough, Norfolk, Northumberland,
Rutland, Buccleuch, and Argyll, and the mar-
quises Bath, Bristol Hertford, Huntly, and
Saltsbury. All the Roman Catholic peers
present declared themselves "not content."


Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODEE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, Bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the 
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.P. TEASDEL.

Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake CIty and vicinty will find the LARGEST and 
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS,  SHOES  &  SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
ob-in the West. Your Orders are Soli---
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN  AND  SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store,
Speical Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE,  THROAT  AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C. 
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, -
Constitution BUlding; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		 Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns, 		Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 		Cassimers, 		Washboards,
Jeans, 		Tweeds, 			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 12-
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly resonded to.
Address, David James, Box 300, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, &79 First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the RIghts of the Women of all Nations,
Vol. 11.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1882. 		No. 8.


OASIS

There are shady nooks in the world's highway,
Were we rest from the heat, and dust of day,
Where the grass and flowers spring fresh and bright,
And the fountains sparkle like gems of light.

Where weary ones may stop and think
O'er life's deep lessons, and, while they drink
Of the peace that reigns in this haven dear,
Find happy respite from pain and fear.

It is well, for life's object had ne'er been won,
For the soul would faint ere the day was done,
And the pilgrim staff be laid aside,
Ere half way over the desert wide.

If the aching feet could find no rest,
Nor the heart with songs of joy be blest;
For though the rose may have its thorn,
It cannot of its sweets be shorn.

But God is good, for the light and shade,
The bitter and sweet, his hand hath made,
And dealt in portions just and fair;
Showing a wisdom deep and rare.

So there is no desert but hath its spring,
And its shady trees where the sweet birds sing;
Sometimes 'tis a weary way and long,
That the path is devoid of tount and song.

But oft when we think it is sorrow all,
A gleam of light o'er the way will fall,
And a hope spring up, so bright and fair,
That is banishes darkness, doubt and care.

Let us seek those bright spots we may find in life,
If we lose them not in the blinding strife:
For they're planted along from life's rising sun,
'Til the work us ended and heaven is won.
								Hope.


BOOKS, LETTERS, AUTHORS.
BY HANNAH T. KING,
	The mind experiences a sort of dizziness
when throwing itself out to view, and as it
were, to grasp the world of books that have
been written for the instruction, edification, and
amusement of the human family!  Public
Libraries of ancient writers, containing fifty
thousand, or a hundred thousand volumes,
speaking to us out of the past ages with voices
that are immortal! then pass down to modern
times, and we find public libraries all over the
known world, with their volumes innumerable,
upon every known science. Biographies of
every notable character that ever lived, histor-
ies of all countries, travels of every description.
Then cme periodicals, in themselves an ocean,
flowing over all lands, and suited to every mind,
and their varied tastes; and newspapers, moun-
tains of newspapers-- some comprising a sheet
that would cover a small room, all for one
penny! issued every day, and in some cases
twice a day! they contain the news of the
world movements of nations; with their courts,
and crowned heads; every thing is now literally
"told on the house tops," how they look, and
what they say, and what they do; they are as
"a beacon set upon a hill that cannot be hid;"
their good deeds and  their bad are equally
blazoned forth ! food for the Newspapers, in-
formation of every sort is found in them; they
are the bulletin of the world, issued almost
every hour.  The Theatres with all their mag-
ical details, contribute a mighty quota of read-
able matter in the present day; the gifted Ris-
tori, and the no less marvelous Sarah Bern-
hardt, and Booth, and Irving, those two thril-
ling constellations at this moment in conjunc-
tion!  Making Shakspere live again every
night in all his own gorgeous glory of person-
ification of the passions of humanity in all their
mysterious working for good, or for evil; pre-
senting a mirror in which the "form and
pressure" of virtue is seen in all her glory, and
vice in all its frightful deformity, to be shunned
and hated.  Then the letters! since the blessing
of cheap postage was given to the public, every-
body has become a writer.  Rowland Hill, still
of blessed memory, was the first mover in this
great benefaction, and he never rested till the
penny postage was an established fact through-
out the united kingdom of Great Brittan.  The 
public became letter writers, every mind hasted
to correspond with its beloved ones, and with
its congenial mind; every one told its tale in
writing to the eye, and the heart that was 
panting to recieve it; every mother at once sat
down, and became a writer to her boy, or girl
far away; told them how  she loved,  and wound
up by giving Rowland Hill a mother's blessing,
for having opened up the way for every person
to communicate with the loved ones.  Let-
ters signed, sealed and delievered, all for one
penny.
	Well might that country raised a nable mon-
ument to that philanthropic man; who had
given the poor, such an untold blessing, and
they did so.  By his aid knowledge has spread
like water flowing over thirsty ground, and has
fertilized, and made productive, that which be-
fore lay barren and destitute, yet possessing
within itself all the germs of intelligence, of love,
of a yearning to communicate, and amalgam-
ate; but custom familiarizes, a new generation
has risen up, and the noble benefactor is almost
forgotten.  Yet, this penny postage was an un-
told benefaction to the English people--it
raised a highway for the communication of
mind with mind, by the aid of that tiny
instrument, the pen! and was an unseen, but
unsleeping power in spreading the principles
of the Latter-day work, over those favored
kingdoms.  Yes, favored is the word, for a 
mighty host heard and recieved, and continued
to live the life giving principles which it enun-
ciated; and which were often promulgated, fed, 
and kept alive by the "penny postage."
	The mechanic,  the peasant,  and the 
Village girl, became writers, that they might
expatiate upon a theme, that had raised them
to a higher platform than they had ever before
stood upon; it held before them a mirror in
which they beheld self, and with wonder and 
delight they rejoiced therein.  A noble monu-
ment has been raised to Rowland Hill, which
speaks well for the appreciation of the British
public.
	Now we must speak a few words for the 
authors of those worlds of books. Think of the 
mental labor that has produced those volumes
of intrinsic worth! of the sweat of the brain
and  palpitations of the heart, that this Her-
culean labor has occasioned.  How many eyes
gaze on those collossal libraries, yet never give
a passing thought to the minds that have pro-
duced them! but we will leave those tomes of 
wondrous lore, and consider the mental labor-
ers of our own times.  Again what immense
libraries, public and private, and the circulat-
ing libraries, books every where.  Intellectual
tables spread continually, dayand night with
viands suiting every palate, and every taste; we
could easily imagine ministering spirits waiting
round to hand to us our favorite Author; or be-
loved Poet, or venerated Statesman, or appreci-
ated philanthropist, the feminine and the mas-
culine are equally yoked in this galaxy of their
labors and their songs are Duetto for ever.
And as we enjoy the feast prepared for us, let 
us never forget the mental purveyors, whose
labor is often onerous, often ill paid, often
without money, and without price, though in
this day, fortunes have been made even by the
pen, and the public are appreciative; which
formerly was not the case.  When Milton's
"Paradise Lost," was scarcely noticed, and only
fetched fiftenn pounds ! since that time it has
realized its thousands.  Milton, Doctor John-
son, goldsmith, and a host of as great men
passed through poverty and neglect, and great
privations, to reach the pinnacle they attained,
and upon which they stand forever; for that 
which has immortailty within it can never be 
destroyed.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

In looking over  letters written by my
parents, during the days of my childhood, I
find recorded many a forgotten incident; some
of which are pleasing, and others painful to
dwell upon-bringing back the love and the
joy, the pain  the sorrows, that were shared
by them who have, long since, passed to a
haven of rest, where there are no more tears,
nor anguish and where the tears of death can
never come.
	One reminiscence serves to revive another,
and among other incidents is the following
which I will relate, with the hope that it may
prove beneficial to my young sisters, as it
came very near ending my earthly existence.
I believe it was in the early part of March in
1842; at all events my father and mother had
gone down to Quincy and left a young woman
with us, to take charge of matters and things
while they were gone. Before they returned
my eldest brother and myself were invited to
attend an evening party in the neighborhood
where we first settled, when the place was
called Commerce. Laying off my winter
clothing I put on a lawn dress and cotton
stockings, and thin slippers in the place of
boots, never giving a thought that it could
hurt me. I was wrapped in a good shawl but
as we drove in an open carriage, the cold bleak
wind pierced through to my vitals, and the
consequence was that I was thrown into
what was considered a quick consumption,
from which there was but little hope of my
recovery, though I was kept in ignorance of
my true condition until after the danger was
over. I was not sick in bed, but I looked
like a walking ghost, and it took but a few
steps to exhaust what little strength I had.
No pains were spared and nothing that affection
could prompt, or faith and skill accomplish
that was left untried, though I sometimes
noticed their anxious and careworn looks.
Early one morning in the Fall of the year
my father had William hitch up his horse and
buggy and take me up to the Temple, where
he met us. He took me to the Font under the
Temple into which the water had been pumped
the day before and there baptized me for my
health, which I regained more rapidly from
that time.


[Column 1]
 ﻿He was in the habit of taking me out riding
nearly every day, and soon after this he had
occasion to go quite a distance out on the
prairie to take Miss Lawrence home, who had
been doing some sewing for us. This was
Sarah Lawrence, who was sealed to the Prophet
Joseph. Father took me with them, and
though it looked a little cloudy when we
started, he thought wo could get back before
it would rain; but we had barely  got started
for home when it commenced raining. Father
put the umbrella over me, and told me to
hold it closely over myself and not mind him.
The thunder and lightning were terrific and
the wind blew and the rain poured in perfect
torrents, there was no house and not even a
tree to seek shelter under. He was really
frightened about me and drove as fast as it was
possible for the horse to run. We soon
reached Brother Winchester’s house, which was
near the outskirts of the town, but not before
our cloths were drenched through. Father
gave me into the charge of Sister Winchester
who gave me something warming, and I was
soon clad in some dry clothing, as well as him-
self. We remained there till the storm was over
and when we went home the roads were washed
smooth and we found that a heavy freshet had
passed over the lower part of the City.
 My father’s prayers and faith prevailed in
my behalf, for I never felt the least bad effect
from the exposure, which was truly miraculous.
This true story may prove, not only a warning
but a faith-promoter to our young friends, who
may chance to read it. 	
 There is another little incident which I had
missed jotting down in the right place. It
was near the first of June 1843, just previous
to my father’s starting East, that the Prophet
called and invited him to ride with him and
William Clayton, his private clerk, as he was
going around to give invitations to his friend,
to take a pleasure trip with him down to
Quincy, in the little “Nauvoo” boat which,
previous to its being purchased, was called
“Maid of Iowa.” I was also invited to go
along. As we drove up the river a Steamer
was just landing, and a number of strange
gentlemen came ashore, who seemed to have
quite a curiosity to see the Prophet. He got
out, and in his warm and genial way, gave
each of them a cordial shake of the hand. As
the carriage was about starting away, one of
them came up and, after being introduced by
President Smith, requested the privilege of
riding. After going a few rods the carriage
was stopped for him to get out. He wished to
have it to say that he had rode with Joseph
Smith, whom they styled the “American
Mahomet.”
 Our babe being very sick prevented my
parents from going and I went with my brother.
It was a lovely June morning, and animated
with the lovely airs, played by William Pitt’s
Bras band, every heart was made glad, and
every thing looked bright and hopeful for the
excursionists, as we started on the little Steamer
bound for Quincy.
 We had a most enjoyable trip down, took
dinner, with others, at the house of the widow
of Dr. F. G. Williams and his son Ezra, who
were old Kirtland friends. Joseph and his
wife Emma, and a score of his old, as well as
young, friends were made welcome by others
in that city. But on our return trip a heavy
thunder storm came up, and Judge Elias
Higbee being taken very ill we were obliged
to stop over night at Keokirk. The cabin
was small and the Judge being so sick the
majority stayed on deck, where we sat all night;
umbrellas being our only protection from the
beating storm. The heat had been very ex-
cessive, and being thinly] clad, many were
made sick, and I was among that number.
Judge Higbee continued to grow worse, and
only lived a few days after his return home.

[Column 2]	
 The Prophet, who was noted for his tender
sympathies towards the afflicted, could not rest
until he went around and informed himself of
the condition of each one who had accompanied
him to Quincy, and offer advice and some he
administered to. The morning of the second
day after our return, he called at our house.
He recommended some medicine to be given
me that night, and then turning to me said:
“To-morrow morning you take for your break-
fast only a cup of coffee and a piece of dry
bread, and you shall be well.” His counsel
was strictly adhered to, and the result was pre-
cisely as he had predicted.
 Before leaving us to go East my father
gave to his children (six in number) their
Patriarchal blessing, brother William Clay ton
acting as scribe. Father was very anxious
that mother should go with him and spend a
little time with their relatives; but she could
hardly make up her mind to leave home. She
accompanied him as far as Quincy. He wrote
three or four letters while on his way to Pitts-
burg, and a few extracts from their correspond-
ence may be of interest to others beside myself.
The following was written by my mother, and
directed to Philadelphia, as he was to have
been there, but unexpectedly he was detained
in Pittsburg. This was dated “June 27th,1843.
 My dear companion:— I received your
precious letter, and parcel sent by Brother
Smith. * * Gladly do I retire from the
busy cares of life to spend a few moments in
talking to you in this silent way. * * If I
could but see you for a few moments, how
much easier I could unbosom my feelings, but
yet I am thankful that we have this privilege
of conveying our thoughts to each other. I
have read your letter over and over, and my
eyes have been almost blinded with tears—the
feelings expressed therein are worth more to
me than worlds would be without them; for
nothing could make me happy without your
favor. It is one week last, Sunday since I
closed a letter to you. Brother Brigham then
expected to start the next day. * * There
are many changing scenes * * one moment
our bosoms may beat high with anticipation,
and the next be thrown into confusion. At
present there is great excitement in the city. 
Brigham told me this morning that he did not
much expect to go; said Joseph had sent word
to him not to go any way until he saw him. I
am thankful that you got away before the fuss.
I feel as though you were more safe than you
would be here. Oh that I could be with you!
I sometimes feel as though I had been foolish
and would never let another such an opportun-
ity pass without going with you. * I should
not wish to go, unless I could go with you clear
to the sea shore; but I need not talk abont it
now, for there is no telling where our lot will
be cast next, things look rather gloomy here at
present, but I believe good will come out of
evil. I will not attempt to tell you about
Joseph’s arrest, as Brother Hadlock, the bear-
er of this letter, can tell you all about it. *
 Since writing the above, I have had a visit
from brother Parley P. Pratt and his wife.
They are truly converted. It appears that
Joseph has taught him the principle and told
him his privilege, and even appointed one (a
wife for him. * * She has been to me for
counsel. I told her I did not wish to advise in
such matters. Sister Pratt told me that she
had been railing against these things until
within a few days past, she said the Lord had
shown her that it was all right, and wants
Parley to go ahead, says she will do all in her
power to help him. * * They asked me
many questions on principle. I told them I
did not know much, I’d rather they would go
to those that had authority to teach. Parley
said he and Joseph were interrupted before
he got what instruction he had wanted, and
now he did not know when he should have an,

[Column 3]
opportunity. * I told him that these were
sacred things, and he had better not make a
move until he got more instruction. * *
Sarah Noon is here and sends her love to you.
My daily prayer is that you may finish your
mission with honor, and be returned to our
embraces. * * I think you had better des-
troy this as soon as you can after reading it.
I should not dare to send it by mail, but I
trust it will go safe. If Brother Brigham
should go I will write again by him. I am as
ever, Your affectionate wife.
Vilate Kimball”
 This is another proof that the Prophet
Joseph revealed the plural wife system.
 The following I gather from the second
letter written by my father from Pittsburg.
The first was written to me, which has been
published. This one was to my mother, and
was dated July 15th. He wrote that he and
brethren had been there a fortnight, waiting
for President B. Young, who they were look-
ing anxiously for. He continued to suffer
much from his lungs, in consequence of the
smoke from burning coal in that place; after
having a very severe attack of influenza and
cholera-morbus, which had reduced him so low
that he was hardly able to sit up, and could
only write a few lines at a time. He wrote,
“The Saints have been very good and kind.
The people here are mostly Dutch and Irish;
but very few have come out to hear us preach,
as Elder Page has whipt the Sects so, in his
preaching, they will not come  out to hear.
I do wish the Elders would stop it and take a
mild course, and preach the Gospel as they
have been commanded of the Lord, and ad-
vised by Brother Joseph and the Twelve. *
I shall leave next week if Brigham comes.
I want to go ahead and do what we can in
order to get through before cold weather
comes on. * * I have heard Brother Joseph
is again clear from his enemies. I wish they
could let him alone. * * 
 It seems sometimes as though I could not be
absent from my friends and those I so dearly
love, but this will not do. I must labor for
my Father in order that he may provide a
home not made with hands, but eternal in
the heavens. * For this I am willing to
suffer privation, and to wear myself out, and
to lay down my life, should it be necessary to
do so. My mind has been very fruitful in the
things of God, most of the time since I left
you in Quincy, till I was taken sick. My
whole soul is bound up in the cause of Christ,
and my prayer is daily that I may be a savior
of men and a comfort to the human family;
but I see, when I have done the best I can,
that I am a poor imperfect creature. I wish
that I had more wisdom, more light, more
paitence and more religion, and every thing
that is good and calculated to make my friends
happy, both in time and in eternity. * 
O, that little babe, kiss him for me, and the
rest of our dear children, and tell them to
write me how they get along. * I want you
to read this to Sarah and Sister Billings, who I
hold as one of my bosom friends. A friend
in these days is more precious than gold, and
I esteem her as a mother in Israel, and she
has my prayers and blessing. We are in a
critical place but be of good cheer, my dear
friends, for I esteem you as such in every
sense of the word, and may the Lord bless
you with peace forever and ever, amen.”
To be Continued.


...		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LAST election day, the Morgan County pau-
pers were taken from the poor-house and voted
in a body. Yet not an intelligent tax-paying
woman, not a lady school-teacher, or a farmer’s
wife would be trusted to cast a ballot in Mor-
gan county, Ind. Is this a government of the
people? —Our Herald.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PROMISES.
		--

	"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the
Kingdom of Heaven."

	Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteous-
ness, for they shall be fill'd.
									Jesus. 

Not to the proud, who have boundless possessions--
	Not to the mighty, the world favor'd throng--
Not unto those who have all of earth's blessings--
	Doth the kingdom of God and its glory belong.

Nay, hardly the wealthy, God's kingdom can enter.
	Their friends and position so much from them
		claim;
So much  do their thoughts in appearances centre
	They care not the kingdom of God to sustain.

Yet wealth is a boon, if but wisely we use it;
	Yea, wealth doth accomplish commendable things;
But when in our pride for display, we abuse it--
	Instead of a blessing, destruction it brings.

But unto the humble, the lowly of spirit--
	Shall riches abiding, and comfort be given;
Rejoice! Oh, ye poor ones, 'tis yours to inherit
	In fullness and glory, "The kingdom of Heaven."

Ye that thirst, and that faint for the life-giving waters,
	Who for righteousness hunger, midst sorrow and
		strife;
	Rejoice! God doth count you his sons and his daught-
		ers--
	Ye shall satisfied be, with the manna of life?

Ye yet shall be fill'd unto copious o'erflowing;
	The spirit of truth shall your bosoms inspire;
Your blessings shall be of your Father's bestowing,
	"Your souls shall be touched" and be warm'd as
		with fire.

And ye who have mourn'd over many offences--
	Enduring in hope, God's salvation to see--
Rejoice and be glad, for the Lord, your defence is,
	He wills that the honest, his people shall be.

Rejoice and be glad, yet with spirits repentant--
	'Gainst the sins that beset us, each on must contend;
Thus your souls shall be filled with the sweetest con-
		tentment--
	For the honest and humble, have God for their friend.

From the depths, He can lift you to glory and glad-
		ness:
	Can darkness dispel, by ineffable light;
He can banish the woes that o'erwhelm you with sad-
		ness,
	And scatter the clouds, were they blacker than 
		night.

Who can limit his love? His munificence measure?
	His compassion exhuast? or his purpose conceive?
"He sees not as man," 'tis his infinite pleasure--
	That the meek and the poor shall his kingdom re-
		ceive.

His gifts and his grace, God hath promised the lowly,
	That the feeble and faint, consolation may drink;
He gives not the proud what is sacred and holy;
	Nor leaves those who love him to helplessly sink.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
				------
	      MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
				------
			   Continued.
	A rather remarkable period in Mrs. Horne’s
history, dates a little previous to the events re-
corded in the last chapter. We designate it as
remarkable because it was the initiatory step
in the direction of public life, which has led to
many other things, all of these tending to give
her publicity and influenc in woman's depart-
ment of the spiritual labor in the Chruch. It is
well known to most of our readers that the
Relief Society was organized by the Prophet
Joseph in Nauvoo, Ill. The subject of this
sketch was a member of that organization.
When the Bishops organized in the various
wards and settlements, in the valleys of the
mountains, sometime after the return of the
people from the move to Provo, in the time of
Johnson's army, or as it is generally termed
the "Echo canyon war," Mrs. Horne was
chosen by Bisop A. Hongland of the 14th,
Ward Salt Lake City, to preside over the
branch of Relief Society in that ward.  This
took place on the 12th of December 1867. It
was a great surprise to the lady to be elected
to that position. Although a woman of great
force of character and endurance, she was
thoroughly domestic in her manner and habits,
and anything like notoriety was distasteful and
foreign to her nature. However she deter-
mined not to shrink from any responsiblity
placed upon her under the authority of the
priesthood, but to trust in God to help her
overcome her diffidence and fear of speaking in
public. Sister Eliza often refers to her being
so very timid that she could not vote in the 
members of the Society, without being sup-
ported by leaning on other sisters.  To see her
now stand up in the congregations of the Saints,
and hear  words of instruction which flow
from her  lips, one could scarcely creit that
she was ever so afraid of her own voice. Mrs.
Horne is particularly  in Scriptural
quotations.  She has mae the Bible a special
study, and her references are a very great help
to her in speaking, and more than supply the
want of language of which she sometimes com-
plains, though her hearers never think of it.
She has the gift of concentration which is
always good in a peaker or writer; she speaks
to the point and her reasoning is forcible and
clear.
	Mrs. Horne’s first Counselors in the Relief
Society were, Susan H. Wilkinson and Will-
mirth East, and subsequently Mrs. Elimna S.
Taylor was appointed Secretary and Jane
Richardson, Treasurer; under the wise and
judicious management of the President the
Society increased in numbers and not only was
great good accomplished in the relief of the
poor and afflicted, but means multiplied in the
treasury through prudent and careful financier-
ing.  A very good substantial two story-brick
building has been erected by the Society, one
part of which is rented for a store, and the up-
per story used for meetings, and other purposes
in the same connection.  The Society also own
a good granary, and have quite a large quantity
of wheat stored away. We have not space in
our columns to enumerate all the good work
which has been done in the Society under Mrs.
Horne's direction, but certainly she has proved
herself a faithful stewardess, as the Secretary's
record will show.  Mrs. Horne's success as a
leader was so apparent and her course so con-
sistent, that she was soon looked up to as an
example, and Pres. Young had such confidence
in her ability, that he gave her a very import-
ant mission among the sisters; this was called
retrenchment; he called upon her in Gunnison
when she was there on a visit to her son Jos-
eph, who was at that time Bishop of that place.
He told her to lead out in a more economical
way of living, of dressing and so forth; she
scarcely understood at the time what the labor
was to which he assigned her, but on her return
home she laid the matter before "Sister Eliza,"
whom the sisters recognize as the Elect Lady,
and told her of the mission from Pres. Young:
subsequently she called with Sister Eliza to see
ther President; and learn what could be done to
carry out his counsel in the matter. President
Young's advice was for them to hold meetings
on the subject of retrenchment, in table
etiquette, courses, style, etc., and in dress; hav-
ing their garments plain and modest, instead
of so many ruffles, flounces and furbelows, and
spend more time in moral, mental and spiritual
cultivation, and less upon fashion and the
vanities of the world. Accordingly Mrs.
Horne prepared an entertainment at her own
house, the table being set in a simple style
with plain food, and several Presidents of Re-
lief Societies were present,  Some good coun-
sel was given and the way seemed more
clear towards putting in practice the sugges-
tions. A meeting was appointed for the next
week in the 15th Ward school house, and from
there adjourned to the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, and from that time until the present
Mrs. Horne has presided at these regular semi-
monthly meetings of the Ladies General Re-
trenchment Associations.  She makes an excel-
lent President, has great dignity of character,
and is perfectly equal to the position she has so
long occupied.
	When Pres. Young instructed Sister Eliza.
to go through the Territory and organize the
young ladies, into Associations, for mutual
benefit and improvement, Mrs. Horne was
called to assist in the work of organizing. She
has organized and reorganized many of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, in the Church, and at a more recent date
has also organized Primary Associations in
several places; and visits from time to time,
in all parts of the country, traveling among
the peopl, teaching and encouraging them in
the paths of light, and knowledge and advance-
ment. Her mission among women is a very
important one, and she takes up her work sys-
tematically, and allows no selfish interest to
come between her and the discharge of any
public service.
	At the time of the passage of the Cullom
Bill, in January 1876, a grand mass meeting
was called to convene in the Old Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City. It was a sort of indignation
meeting, and Mrs. Horne took an active part
in the proceedings, being one of the committee
appointed to draft resolutions. It was a re-
markable woman's rights movement, and the
expression of sentiments by Mormon women
was pronounced and free. Mrs. Horne also ad-
dressed the audience a few moments on the
questions before the house at that memorable
woman’s convention. In February following
the bill was passed, granting woman suffrage to
the women of Utah. Seven days after the
sisters met in their general meeting in the 14th
Ward, when most of the wards of the city were
represented, and a few ladies were selected as a
Committee to wait upon acting Governor Mann,
and express to him the gratitude of Mormon
women for his signing the document, granting
them the suffrage in Utah. Mrs. Horne was
selected as one of that Committee; and from
that time she has ever taken the greatest in-
terest in the subject of woman's voting. She
has never missed an opportunity of exercising
her privilege in this regard. She has always
been regular in attending the Primary meet-
ings in the precinct where she resides, and has
been elected a member of the County Central
Committee.
	Once or twice her name has been proposed
as Justice of the Peace, but the statute law of
Utah, still hinders woman from holding any
office of emolument or trust. Every thing
that women can do to prepare themselves to
aid in the political elevation of the sex Mrs.
Horne has sought diligently to do.  Strong-
minded she certainly is, and her reasoning up-
on woman's position is always sound and forc-
ible. Yet she is motherly and gentle, and no
one can say there is anything inconsistent with
womanly delicacy in her manner or bearing,
disproving altogether the theory of the oppos-
ers of political equality, who argue that it
makes woman mosculine, bold and forward, to
vote and to speak in public, and that they neg-
lect home and family.
		To be Continued.


A DISPATCH from Omaha 13 inst. states
that the Woman’s Suffrage Convention was
largely  attended, by prominent advocates.
Sixty-eight delegates from twelve states and
territories were on the platform.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.

 Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	SEPTEMBER 15, 1882.


NATURALIZATION AND REGISTRA-
			       TION.
				-----
	The first Monday in September, the District
Courts in Beaver and in Ogden, were both op-
ened so that all aliens who wished to take out
their naturalization papers, had the opportunity
by traveling to one or the other of these places.
Many persons went to these Court rooms from
different points, and availed themselves of  the
privilege of becoming citizens of the United
States. There has been a great neglect on the
part of those born in foreign countries, in taking
out their full papers, and it has seemed as if they
“were at ease in Zion,” not realizing the respon-
sibilities at Stake, in sustaining a republican
government in the Territory, as a part of the
great body politic.  But now the great need of
strength in numbers is apparent, it will perhaps
be different; and those who have been long en-
ough in the country, will have an ambition to
assist in maintaining the liberties and rights of
the people in the choice of officers to fill positions
of trust, in the Territory, as well as a delegate to
Congress.
	On the second Monday in September, by pro-
clamation of the Governor of Utah, the Third
District Court was opened in Salt Lake City,
which gave a great many the advantage of be-
coming naturalized, without taking a trip to
Ogden.  There should be no hesitancy on the
part of those who are entitled to such privelege
of fulfilling this duty; it is a sacred one, that
every man and every woman should feel bound
to respond to.  A duty each one owes to himself
or herself; a parent to his childron, and all owe
to the community in which they reside; to
help sustain law, order, and good government in
the land.
	A set of rules have been adopted by the Utah
Commission for the appointment and govern-
ment of registrars, and the conduct of registra-
tion and elections.  These rules have been ex-
tensively published, and probably carefully read,
discussed and commented upon.  In addition to
Rule 2 there is an oath attached, which each
person must take and subscribe to, before the
name of that individual can be placed on the
registration list.  This oath or affirmation is very
obnoxious in its wording; the phraseology of
it is such as any sensitive, delicate, pure-minded
woman would shrink from hearing, and nothing
but the sternest sense of duty could induce a
noble true woman to subscribe to it.  But brave
hearted women endure ignominy, scorn and in-
dignities for the sake of maintaining the right-
and God and their own conscience are their sup-
port and strength in any trying ordeal.  Jehovah
is for the right, and He alone is a great majority,
yet He requires every one to exercise his own
agency, in all matters pertaining to life here up-
on the earth.  He has endowed mankind liber-
ally with faculties and powers by which they
work out their own destinies, and this is in ac-
cordance with the true principles of all govern-
ment.
	Notwithstanding the oath which has to be
taken before one can register, many have al-
ready gone forward and accepted the conditions,
though feeling it a great injustice to be required
of them.  The words included in the test oath
"in the marriage relation” are exceedingly ob-
jectlonable; especially as the Edmund’s law it-
self does not specify such affirmation to be made.
It does look inconsistent that men and women
of the strictest purity of character, exemplary in
their lives in every respect, living in the highest
order of marriage, should be excluded from the
privilege of registering, and their names actually
erased from the list of voters, because of their
religious relations, even though in many instan-
ces they have been only spiritual and not in any
sense practical.  Yet the same rule is applied to
all, whether they have actually lived in the
principle or only received it in a spiritual form.
The practise of the world at large is not con-
sidered, men may live in such relations as they
like, if they do not marry, it is the actual cere-
mony that disfranchises American citizens.  It
is very galling to those who feel entitled to the
privileges of citizenship, to be debarred of the
exercise of the elective franchise; when they re-
alize the fact that some of the best blood of their
ancestry has been shed in defense of the liberty
of the country. Many of those disfranchised,
have all their lives been true and loyal patriots,
and more—have made this Territory habitable
by their hard labor and unremitting toil.
	The Edmund’s law has been differently inter-
preted by the Commissioners, who framed the
oath of affirmation, from what it was understood
previously, either by Mormons or non-Mormons.
This rendering of its meaning has made some
dissatisfaction, as those who have not violated
the law of 1862, against what is termed bigamy
or polygamy, would, had it not been for this oath,
have been permitted to register.  But according
to the present regulation even a suspicion, a
rumor which fails confirmation, is taken as
evidence that some private cerremony had
taken place away back in Nauvoo, or somewhere
else; though the other party to the transaction
has been dead many years.  Again a woman
whose husband has forsaken her and his family,
and cast her off, and lives with another woman
without marriage of any sort is permitted to
register.  Can such things be, and how can they
be reconciled with the principles of freedom and
religious liberty?  If the people’s party in Utah
will stand together, and each one do his duty in
the midst of the opposition brought to bear,
there need be no fear whatever of losing the
election.
	Some difficulty has arisen in regard to the re-
gistering of women citizens, and there is a dis-
position manifested to reject votes of women
altogether, this point will be carefully guarded,
and argued in open court; the commissioners
having previously decided that women were
eligible, under the statute, to exercise the right
of franchise.  It would be a most flagrant act of
injustice to take away this right after twelve
years experience without any difficulty having
arisin in consequence of woman suffrage.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
 Sister E. R. S. Smith, left this city on Wed-
nesday morning’s Southern train, to visit San-
pete Stake. Sister Zina D. H. Young was de-
tained on account of the illness of her sister Pres-
endia L. Kimball.
 The Primary Meetings will be held in each
precinct in this County on Monday at 7, p. m.
September 25, to select delegates to the County
Convention, called for Saturday, Sept. 30 at
2 m. in the County Court House.

			[Column 2]

	MRS. Elizabeth Bailey brought to this Office,
one of the most beautiful floral gifts we ever re-
cleved. Flowers are always welcome every-
where and on all occasions, and these were choice
and fragrant indeed. Many thanks to the
donor.

	WE have been specially requested, by the
Stake Presidents of Relief Society, Y. L. M. I.
A., and Primary Associations, to urge the sev-
eral secretaries in each of these Societies and
Associations in this County, to prepare their re-
ports immediately, and forward them to the
Stake Secretary of each of these organizations.
 A TERRIRORIAL Convention of the People’s
Party has been arranged for, to be held in the
City Hall, in this city on Monday the 9th, of
October next at 12 m., for the purpose of
nominating a delegate to Congress. The County
Central Committees have been requested to take
immediate steps, in their respective counties in
this direction.

	IT is anticipated that a class of ladies for in-
structlon in obstetrics and anatomry, will be
opened in the Deseret Hospital, shortly after the
October Conference. Persons wishing to study
these branches, should avail themselves of this
oppostunity of preparotion for practical work in
midwifery. For particulars, address the Secre-
tary of the Deseret Hospital Association.

	THE National Woman Suffrage Association
will hold their annual Convention in Omaha,
Neb., Sep. 26, 27 and 28. It will no doubt be
numerously attended. As Vice-President of the
N. W. S. A. for Utah, we have been invited to
attend, and should be glad to do so, and report
the attempt to disfranchise the women of Utah
just made by the “Liberals.”

 The lady secretaries of the several Stake or-
ganizations of Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations,will please notice that
full semi-annual reports of each of these organiz-
ations should be forwarded in time, so. that the
Secretary of the central organization can com-
pile and hand in her report to Pres. John
Taylor’s Office ten days previous to the October
Conference.

 THE seventh book of the Faith Promoting Ser,
ies, has been issued from the Office of the Juve-
nile Instructor, In this City. It is entitled' “H
C. Kimball’s Journal.” The first ten chapters
were published in Nauvoo in pamphlet form, by
Elder Robert, B. Thompson. The next six
chapters have been compiled from the manu-
script by Helen Mar Whitney, eldest daughter
of Pres. Kimball. She also furnished letters and
items for the concluding chapter. There are so
many marvelous instances of the power of God
and the healing of the sick, through the admin-
istration of the ordinances, by the authority of
the priesthood, that it cannot fail to be eminently
useful to the young people of Zion. Heber C.
Kimball was greatly gifted in faith, and was a
natural prophet. He was often as much aston-
ished at his own words as those who listened to
his prophecies could possibly be. We think this
book a good addition to the young people’s librar-
ies, and would advise every parent to purchase
one. It is good for the children to know the
trials and persecutions under which the Saints
struggled and labored to carry the Gospel to the
nations in an earlfer day. The book is neatly
bound and contains over 100 pages. Price 25 cts.
For sale at Juvenile Instructor Office.

	SISTERS E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. H.
Young, went to Logan to attend the Ladies Con-
ference of Cache Stake, on Friday and Saturday,
Sept. 1st and 2d. The Conference was well at-
tended on Friday, Mrs. Libbie Benson presid-
ing. The Relief Society was well and ably rep-


resented. In the evening a general meeting of
the young people was held, at which Sisters
Eliza and Zina, addressed the audience on such
subjects, as were calculated to promote improve-
ment, moral, mental and spiritual.
 On Saturday morning the Y. L. M. I. A., held
their Conference, Mrs. Harriet A. Preston pre-
siding. Prayer was offered by Miss Ida Ione
Cook, Counselor to Mrs. Preston. The branches
were, well represented as being in good working
order. In the afternoon, the Primary Conference
convened, Mrs. Jane B. Molen presiding. The
Associations are in good condition, and an excel- 
lent feeling exists among the different branches
in the Stake and certainly great spiritual ad-
vancement is being made by the children in
these organizations. At Hyde Park the sisters
addressed the children in the Sunday School and
on Monday in Mendon held three meetings, one
with the Primary, one with the Relief Society-
and in the evening with the Y. L. M. I. A. All
the meetings were well attended and a good
spirit prevailed. The sisters were cordially re-
ceived and hospitably welcomed.
 THE regular monthly meeting of the board of
managers of the Deseret Hospital, was held in
the reception room at the building, on Monday
Sept, 11th, Mrs. E.R.S. Smith in the chair.
Prayer, by Mrs. B. W. Smith. Secretary read
the financial report of all money received by
memberships, donation, and from the Concert,
Total amount, cash $3,290,80. Orders 170,30.
Total Expenditures, cash to Sept., $1,569,05.
Orders on tithing store 53, SO. On hand Sept,
lst. $1,721,75; orders on tithing store 116,50.
Donations of bedding etc. Quilts 49, bedsprads
5, pillow-cases 30 pairs, sheets 29, pillows 6,
blankets 3 pairs, bleached and colored goods
from Salt Lake Stake Primary Associations,
prized $10,00; bleached material, Old Folks Com-
mittee 40,00; towelling 2,00; towels 16, factory
and sheeting  $3,80; bedsteads donated 2, chickens
5. books for records 2,90, one Hymn Book, one
“Mormon Battalion,” flour 550 lbs. Molasses
$5,00; honey  $1,00; sugar $1,50; soap $1,25;
cheese, 75 cts, also crockery, new knives and
forks and spoons, and many other things for use
and household purposes.
 The Hospital is in a prosperous condition and
there is evey appearance of the permanent suc-
cess of the enterprise. We publish below the
medical report for the month of August, by the
House. Surgeon.
 Medical Report of the Deseret Hospital from
July 31st, to Aug. 31st, 1882. Patients remain-
ing at date of last report, 6; received during the
month of August, 8; discharged, 6; died, none;
total remaining, 8. Visits, of the medical board,
Dr. Young 28; Dr. Anderson, G. Prescriptions
and treatment by the House Surgeon, to out
patients 17 to indoor patients, 151.
            Ellen B. Ferguson, House Surgeon.


______________________________________________________________________________________

								WOMAN'S EXPONENT								

______________________________________________________________________________________


﻿PRACTICAL EDUCATION.
				-----
	In our past, how limited has been the educa-
tional advantages of woman!  Book-learning
was supposed to have very little to do with the
requisite acquirements of the ideal housekeeper;
the masses really believing that "woman should
understand" only sufficient Geography to know
the different apartments in her house, and
enough Chemistry to keep the kettle boiling.’
How absurd!  If “knowledge is power” why
should not woman possess her full quota as
well as the sterner sex?  She who is entrusted
with the sacred responsibility of bearing the
souls of men, of ministering to the wants and
necessities of her household.  Is it not she who
must furnish their nutriment, not only to the


new-born infant, but 'tis she who must supply
the ever-recurring demands of the older and
stronger members of the family.  Truly the
most thorough housekeepers—the best wives
and mothers, are those who are best educated.
The true and correct idea of education, is obtain-
ing practical knowledge, knowledge that will
enhance our usefulness, and that will give to
ourselves the greatest degree of satisfaction.
An understanding that will enable us to look
beyond the surface of all animate and inanimate,
creation, whereby we may discern the elements
that compose those vital agencies so necessary
to our life and health on the earth.  Air, food
and drink.  That our children may be properly
clothed in all seasons of the year, and have
healthful nutritious food, pure water to drink
and an abundant supply of Oxygen in the air of
our dwelling houses.  How often does a want of
a deep and thorough knowledge of these simple
but all-important subjects, result in serious and
oftimes fatal consequences.
Then let our wives and daughters study, think
and reflect seriously, endeavor to restrain this
increasing love of adornment and pleasure,
wean our attention from the artifices of dress
and vanity to the more solid and practical ideas
of a true life, of a genuine, true womanhood.
Study the beautiful principles of chemistry,
physiology and anatomy; that our lives may be-
come more practically and intelligently useful.
							E. R. S.


SHE HATH DONE WELL.
				  -----
	The Presidents of the Primary Associations,
who ably perform the duties pertaining to that
particular calling, are worthy of the honor and
respect of those whom they so faithfully serve.
We are always pleased to see deference shown
to such persons, as an appreciation of their
labors.  It is simply just to accord to those who
do public duty an expression of good feeling.  It
encourages them in the future, to know that
their work is acceptable.  At Wanship, Summit
County, on the 15th of June last, a party of
friends and relatives convened at the residence
of Bishop J. C. Roundy, in honor of his wife,
Mrs. Lovisa Roundy, whose birthday they
wished to celebrate; and when one has lived
half a century they can appreciate the love of
their friends.  Good wishes and presents were
gratefully received by the hostess; a bounteous
repast partaken of, music, singing and dancing
were freely indulged in, and a good spirit and
feeling prevailed throughout the evening.
Sister Roundy has faithfully performed her
duties as President of the Primary Associations
of Summit Stake for a number of years, and is
respected and loved by all who know her.  The
occasion was one long to be remembered, and
may she live to see many happy returns of the
day, in prosperity, peace and happiness.  A
pleasing feature of the entertainment was the
reading of a poem addressed to Prest. Roundy
composed and read by one of the young ladles of
the party.					N.W.
Wanship, Utah.


CHILDRENS FAIR.
				-----
	On the 16th and 17th of August the two
Primary Associations of Centerville united their
efforts in a Primary Fair. Mrs. Rebecca Porter
taking charge.  There were three tables—one
for produce of the boys' own raising—one for
little girls' needle work—and one for fancy work.
There was also another one which was set for
dinner, by the Primary girls under 14 years of
age, and all the cooking was done by the little
girls; jellies, pickles, fresh and preserved fruits


bread, butter, cakes, etc.--one very handsomely
ornamented cake--and all the articles of the
best quality. Bishop Cheney and wife and Br.
Reeves and wife and the officers of both Primary
Associations were invited to dinner. The tables
were tastefully ornamented with flowers and
fruits, and the walls were decorated with mot-
toes and pictures. There was one very beauti-
ful, being the Lord's prayer cut in wood and set
on black velvet ground, made by Master John-
nie Whittaker. It was very artistic and hand-
some. There was a great variety of hair work,
one handsome wreath by a little girl nine years
old. The boys tried to excel in vegetables, and
succeeded in bringing forward very fine speci-
mens of all the varieties one could think of
There were some stock and fowls, rabbits,
pigeons and sheep. Two lambs raised by Mas-
ter David Chase, which he had raised wholly
himself, were very fine. One little boy made a 
perfect miniature hay-rack, another a cupboard
with glass doors; then there were little wooden
tables, rakes, shovels, etc. One boy had a sack
of flour on exhibition, his own work at his
father's mill. Master Byron Kesler, aged 14,
had on exhibition teeth he had drawn, and a
full set made by himself.
	There were a number of ladies from other
parts of the County. Mrs. A. S. Rogers, Mrs.
Mary S. Clark and others who came to see the
Fair and encourage the children. The officers
most actively engaged in the labor were Mrs.
Rebecca Porter, Misses Frankie Randall, Kate
Chase and Emily Porter.


﻿APPRECIATION.
				-----
			Monroe, Sevier County,
					August 22,1882.
Editor Deseret News:
	I desire to express through the columns of
your paper my gratitude to Doctors E. B.
Ferguson, S. B. Young, and W. F. Anderson,
also to Matron Mary Ann McLean and Nurse
Sophia Erricsson, and others of the Deseret
Hospital, for the efficient manner in which I
was treated for lameness in the knee, and for
the kindness and courtesy shown.  I consider
the Deseret Hospital a necessary and excellent
institution for the people of Utah.
	Respectfully,
HENRY J. RICH.


﻿OBITUARIES.
				 -----
	Sister Hannah Lindstrum Madsen was born
Sept. 24th 1850, Sweden.  Died May 23d, 1882,
at Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete Co. Sister Hannah
was the beloved wife of Christian Madsen, and
was a patient woman in every circumstance in
life in which you could place her.  She was a
faithful and devoted wife, and a most affection-
ate and loving mother.  She was First Counselor
to the President of the North Ward Primary
Association in Mt. Pleasant, and indefatigable
in the discharge of every duty.  Being the only
one of her family who embraced the truth, she
zealously preached the Gospel to her father’s
household, by letter, striving to make plain to
them the great plan of life and salvation but
they have persistently rejected it.  And now
her testimony is sealed.
	Sister Madsen has been taken from us in the
midst of a life of usefulness, and will not soon be
forgotten.  We deeply sympathize with her good
and kind husband, who is left with four lovely
children, the eldest only 5 years old, to mourn
her early departure.  May she rest in peace, till
the morning of the ressurrection, when she will
again join her beloved ones, where there will be
no more sorrow nor parting.
					M.F.C. MORRISON.


[Column 1]
	Amanda Malvina Hammond, daughter of
Benjamin and Almeda Hammond, was born
May 6, 1827, Town of Penobscot, Maine. Joined
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 
when very young, was united in marriage to 
Harrison Burgess in Nauvoo, Feb. 6, 1846. She
shared the persecutions, and was driven with
the Saints from that place; emigrated to Utah
performing that hard and tedious journey in 
company with Sophia M. Burgess, her husband's
wife, the companion of their destiny, leaving
them in June, 1848, to go on a mission to Eng-
land. She resided in Salt Lake City from that
date until called South, in the fall of 1862, when
with her husband and family she settled in Pine
Valley, Washington County; until July 17, 1882.
At that time she went to Provo to be treated by
Dr. Riggs, celebrated for his treatment of cancers; 
while there erysipelas in the head set in (of
which disease she had had a severe attack the
Winter previous.) and died August 8, 1882, hav-
ing been there about three weeks; during which
time she had received every care and attention,
from the Dr. and his family, and her untiring
faithful nurse, Mrs. Smith, daughter of the late
Bishop Duke. Her remains were prepared for
burial, and placed in a Metallic Coffin, accom-
panied by her husband and eldest son was
placed on  cars, and brought to Pine Valley,
where they arrived on the 12 Aug. 5 o'clock a.m.
37 hours from Provo. 
	On Sunday 13 ins. at 2 p.m. her remains were
carried to the Meeting House by her sons and 
friends, followed by her beloved husband and
family, the Relief Society, the Y. M. M., and
Young Ladies, and Primary Associations. The
speakers for the occasion were, Bishop F. W. 
Jones, Robert Gardner Sen., Robert L. Lloyd
and Harrison Burgess. The remarks were very
appropriate, comforting and consoling, to the
family and friends of the deceased. The remains
were taken to Cemetery followed by a large con-
course of people in wagons, and interred by the
side of her three children, two of whom had been
buried within the last eight months. She was
the mother of 11 children, and 24 grandchildren. 
She leaves a husband, and 8 children 4 sons and
4 daughters, and a numerous circle of relatives
and friends, to mourn her loss. She was truly a 
faithful Mother in Israel, a true Latter-day
Saint, and a firm believer in all the principles of 
this great Latter-day work. A short time before
her demise, she bore a faithful testimony, with
the sisters of the Relief Society, of which Society
she had been Second Counselor since April 1, 
1877. She expressed gratitude to her Heavenly
Father, that she had been privileged to raise her
family in the celestial order of marriage, that
her footsteps had been led and guided by Provi-
dence, out of the paths of the wicked and un-
godly, and planted on a sure foundation, felt if
she lived, she was in the hands of the Lord, and
if she died she was also in his hands. Exhorted
her sisters to faithfulness and diligence, to unity
and endurance to the end. Surely her life and
character is worthy of imitation.
	S. M. Burgess and E. M. Jones, Committee.
			--------------
	DIED: At Croyden, Morgan Co. July 15, 1882. 
Sarah Ann Storer. Deceased was born Dec  21st,
1820, in Nottingham, England. Embraced the
Gospel in 1850, emigrated to Utah 1872. She
has filled the office as Teacher in the Relief So-
ciety since its first organization in this Ward;
and has been faithful in the performance of her
duties, when her health permitted. She was a 
regular attendant at our meetings, and was ever
ready to testify to the truth of the work she had
embraced.
	The disease which terminated her life was 
cancer in the back of the neck, from which she

[Column 2]
had suffered for nineteen years. She died in the
full hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Sister Storer was the mother of eight children, 
six boys and two girls, all of whom are yet 
living. 
		HELEN THACKERAY, President.
		ELIZABETH BLACKWELL, Sec'y.
	Croyden Relief Society.

DIED: In Ovid, Bear Lake Co. Idaho, Aug
4th, 1882, after an illness of three months, Car-
oline Mathilda Petersen, was born in Denmark
Aug. 10th, 1853, and emigrated to Utah in 1863. 
She was set apart as President of the Y. L. M.
I. Association, when it was organized here three
years ago, and has faithfully preformed her
duties, until death called her. She leaves a hus-
band, three children and a large circle of friends
to mourn her loss. 
	Whereas, God has seen fit to take from our
midst our beloved President--Resolved, that we
the members of the Y. L. M. I. A., do sincerly
mourn her loss, and extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy, to her husband and family in their great
bereavement.
	MARY JENEEN and NETTIE S. JONES, Coun-
selors. Ovid Relief Society.
	(Deseret News please copy.)

	DIED: In North Morgan, Utah August 6, 1882
Elizabeth S. C. Grover, wife of Thomas Grover. 
and daughter of Martin and Adelgenda Heiner,
Deceased was born in Pennsylvania, April 4, 
1848. She leaves a family of seven children one
infant six hours old, at the time of her death.
She was a noble and affectionate woman, a thor-
ough Latter-day Saint. A good wife and tender
mother, faithful in every position in life. As a
member of the Relief Society she was beloved
and respected by all with whom she was associ-
ated in her labors. She was a favorite among
her friends, and the feelings of those who are
called to part with her cannot be expressed in
words. We desire to extend our sincere sym-
pathy to the bereaved family, the young hus-
band and father, the little children thus de-
prived of a  mother's loving care, and the aged
father and mother, but we know she has gone to
a better home, where sickness and death cannot
enter, and where all tears are wiped away. May
our Heavenly Father soften this great affliction
to those so sorely grieved at her loss, and may
they be able to say "The Lord giveth and the
Lord taketh away, blessed be the name of the 
Lord.
	Elizabeth Worlton, Sec'y. R. S. North Mor-
gan.
			-------------------------


62 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

HEBER CITY.

	The Conference of the Relief Societies of
Wasatch Stake convened in Heber City Hall,
Aug. 11, 1882. Present were, Pres. Emma
Brown, her Second Counselor, Mary Daybell,
the Pres. of the several societies, local author-
ities. Pres. Hatch, T. H. Giles, Bishop Mur-
dock and other brethren. After the usual op-
ening exercises, the minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. Written
reports were read by the Secretary. The sev-
eral wards were then represented. East Heb-
er, Mrs. Rasband; West Heber, Mrs. Foreman,
Midway, Mrs. Gurney; Wallsbury; Mrs. Clif-
ton; Charleston, Mrs. Taylor; Center, Mrs.
Richardson. The Primary wes well repres-
ented, all seeming to be in a prosperous con-
dition. Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock,
singing and Benediction.

WEST BOUNTIFUL.

	The Primary Association of West Bountiful
Ward, was organized on the 7th of May 1881.


by Mrs. Aurelia Rogers, President of the
Primary of the Stake. We have had good
meetings, and have endeavored to instil good
principles into the minds of the children under
our care, our labors have been blessed. Our
President, Mrs. Jane Eldredge, has lately res-
igned, which caused us to be reorganized. We
had a visit from Mrs. A. Rogers on the 17th of
August, when she attended to that duty. Mrs.
Maggie Grant was appointed President, and
Mrs. Lucy D. Muir and Mrs. Jennie Grant,
Counselors, Miss Julia Fackrell Secretary,
with two assistants. Mrs. Rogers expressed
her wishes for our success, and left her blessing
with the children and their teachers, and she
felt we would go forward in our labor of love.
	Wishing success for all Primaries throughout
Zion, I am yours in the covenant.
				JULIA FACKRELL, Sec'y.

	Afternoon session, singing, prayer, singing.
Primary reports were then given, showing the
spirit of improvement. Sister Duke, from
Provo, spoke to us a short time, relating some
pleasing incidents; relative to the Excursion,
given to the "Old Folks" in Salt Lake City.
Also told of the trials of the Saints in the Pro-
phet Joseph's day; was proud to have a name
and standing in the Church and kingdom of
God. The appeal from the Deseret Hospital
was then read by the Sec,y. President Hatch
spoke to the sisters, said he was pleased to know
the societies are in a prosperous condition.
Said a portion of the Tithing should be used
for the support of the poor. The sisters should
look after the sick, and see that they are cared
for. Said the Deseret Hospital is an institu-
tion worthy the support of Latter-day Saints.
Gave the sisters some excellent counsel in re-
gard to their duties. Sister Brown spoke
briefly, was pleased with the remarks which
had been made. A good spirit prevailed
throughout the Conference, which adjourned
for 3 months. Benediction by T. H. Giles.
				MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
				AVIS M. BRONSON, Ass't.


ADVICE

OF AN AZTEC MOTHER; TRANSLATED FROM
	SAHAGUN'S HISTORIA DE NEUVAESPANA,"
	LIB. VI. CAP. XIX.

	[ I have thought it best to have this transla-
tion made in the most literal manner, that the
reader may have a correct idea of the strange
mixture of simplicity, approaching to childishness
and moral sublimity, which belongs to the or-
iginal. It is the product of the twilight of civil-
ization.]
	"My beloved daughter, very dear little dove,
you have already heard and attended to the
words which your father has told you. They
are precious words, and such as are rarely
spoken or listened to, and which have pro-
ceeded from the bowels and heart in which they
have been treasured up; and your beloved
father well knows that you are his daughter,
begotton of him, are his blood, and his flesh;
and God our Lord knows that it is so.  Al-
though you are a woman, and are the image of
your father, what more can I say to you than
has already been said?  What more can you
hear than what you have heard from your lord
and father?  Who has fully told you what it is
becoming for you to do and to avoid; nor is
there anything remaining, which concerns you,
that he has not touched upon.  Nevertheless,
that I may do towards you my whole duty, I
will say to you some few words.—The first thing
that I earnestly charge upon you is, that you
observe and do not forget what your father has
now told you, since it is all very precious; and
persons of his condition rarely publish such
things; for they are the words which belong
to the noble and wise,—valuable as rich jewels,


[Column 1]
See, then, that you take them and lay them up
in your heart, and write them in your bowels.
If God gives you life, with these same words
will you teach your sons and daughters, if God
shall give you them.—The second thing that I
desire to say to you is, that I love you much,
that you are my dear daughter. Remember
that nine months I bore you in my womb, that
you were born and brought up in my arms. I
placed you in your cradle, and in my lap, and
with my milk I nursed you. This I tell you, in
order that you may know that I and your
father are the source of your being; it is we
who now instruct you. See that you receive
our words, and treaesure them in your breast.
—Take care that your garments are such as
are decent and proper; and observe that you
do not adorn yourself with much finery, since
this is a mark of vanity and of folly. As little
becoming is it, that your dress should be very
mean, dirty, or ragged; since rags are a mark
of the low, and of those who are held in con-
tempt. Let your clothes be becoming and neat,
that you may neither appear fantastic nor mean.
When you speak, do not hurry your words from
uneasiness, but speak deliberately and calmly.
Do not raise your voice very high, nor speak
very low, but in a moderate tone. Neither
mince, when you speak, nor when you salute,
nor speak through your nose; but let your
words be proper, of a good sound, and your
voice gentle. Do not be nice in the choice of
your words. In walking, my daughter, see
that you behave becomingly, neither going with
haste, nor too slowly; since it is an evidence of
being puffed up, to walk too slowly, and walk-
ing hastily causes a vicious habit of restlessness
and instability. Therefore neither walk very
fast nor very slow; yet, when it shall be nec-
essary to go with haste, do so,—in this use your
discretion. And when you may be obliged to
jump over a pool of water, do it with decency,
that you may neither appear clumsy nor light.
When you are in the street, do not carry your
head very much inclined, or your body bent;
nor as little go with your head very much
raised; since it is a mark of ill breeding; walk
erect, and with your head slightly inclined.
Do not have your mouth covered, or your face,
from shame, nor go looking like a near-sighted
person, nor, on your way, make fantastic move-
ments with your feet. Walk through the street
quietly, and wiih propriety. Another thing
that you must attend to, my daughter, is, that
when you are in the street you do not go look-
ing hither and thither, nor turning your head
to look at this and that; walk neither looking
at the skies nor on the ground. Do not look
upon those whom you meet with the eyes of an
offended person, or have the appearance of be-
ing uneasy; but of one who looks upon all with
a serene couutenance; doing this, you will give
no one occasion of being offended with you.
Show a becoming countenance; that you may
neither appear morose, nor, on the other hand,
too complaisant. See, my daughter, that you
give yourself no concern about the words you
may hear, in going through the street, nor pay
any regard to them, let those who come and go
say what they will. Take care that you neither
answer nor speak, but act as if you neither
heard nor understood them; since, doing in
this manner, no one will be able to say with
truth that you have said anything amiss. See,
likewise, my daughter, that you never paint
your face, or stain it or your lips with colors,
in order to appear well; since this is a mark of
vile and unchaste women. Paints and coloring
are things which bad women use,—the im-
modest, who have lost all shame and even
sense, who are like fools and drunkards, and
are called rameras [prostitutes]. But, that
your husband may not dislike you, adorn your-
self, wash yourself, and cleanse your clothes;
and let this be done with moderation; since if
very day you wash yourself and your clothes

[Column 2]
it will be said of you that you are over-nice,—
too delicate; they will call you tapepeizon tin-
emaxoch.—My daughter, this is the course you
are to take; since in this manner the ancestors
from whom you spring brought us up. Those
noble and venerable dames, your grandmothers,
told us not so many things as I have told you,
—they said but few words, and spoke thus:
"Listen my daughters; in this world it is neces-
sary to live with much prudence and circnm-
spection. Hear this allegory, which I shall
now tell you, and preserve it, and take from it
a warning and example for living aright.
Here, in this world, we travel by a very nar-
row, steep, and dangerous road, which is as a
lofty mountain ridge, on whose top passes a
narrow path; on either side is a great gulf
without bottom; and if you deviate from the
path you will fall into it. There is need, there-
fore, of much discretion in pursuing the road."
My tenderly loved daughter, my little dove,
keep this illustration in your heart, and see
that you do not forget it,—it will be to you as
a lamp and a beacon so long as you shall live
in this world. Only one thing remains to be
said. and I have done. If God shall give you
life, if you shall continue some years upon the
earth, see that you guard yourself carefully,
that no stain comes upon you; should you for-
feit your chastity, and afterwards be asked in
marriage and should marry any one, you will
never be fortunate, nor have true love,—he
will always remember that you were not a
virgin, and this will be the cause of great afflic-
tion and distress; you will never be at peace,
for your husband will always be suspicious of
you. O my dearly beloved daughter, if you
shall live upon the earth, see that no more than
one man approaches you; and observe what I
now shall tell you, as a strict command.
When it shall please God that you shall receive
a husband, and you are placed under his
authority, be free from arrogance, see that you
do not neglect him, nor allow your heart to be
in opposition to him. Be not disrespectful to
him. Beware that in no time or place you
commit the treason against him called ad-
ultery. See that you give no favor to another;
since this, my dear and much-loved daughter,
is to fall into a pit without bottom, from which
there will be no escape. According to the
custom of the world, if it shall be known, for
this crime they will kill you, they will throw
you into the street, for an example to all the
people, where your head will be crushed and
dragged upon the ground. Of these says a
proverb, "You will be stoned and dragged up-
on the earth, and others will take warning at
your death." From this will arise a stain and
dishonor upon our ancestors, the nobles and
senators from whom we are descended. You
will tarnish their illustrious fame, and their
glory, by the filthiness and impurity of your
sin. You will likewise, lose your reputation,
your nobility, and honor of birth; your name
will be forgotten and abhorred. Of you will it
be said that you were buried in the dust of your
sins. And remember, my daughter, that,
though no man shall see you, nor your husband
ever know what happens; God, who is in every
place sees you, will be angry with you, and will
also excite the indignation of the people against
you, and shall be avenged upon you as he shall
see fit. By his command, you shall either be
maimed, or struck blind, or your body will
wither, or you will come to extreme poverty;
for daring to injure your husband. Or per-
haps he will give you to death, and put you
under his feet, sending you to the place of tor-
ment. Our Lord is compassionate; but, if you
commit treason against your husband, God,
who is in evrey place, shall take vengeance on
your sins, and will permit you to have neither
contentment, nor repose, nor a peaceful life;
and he will excite your husband to be always
unkind towards you, and always to speak to

[Column 3]
you with anger. My dear daughter, whom I
tenderly love, see that you live in the world in
peace, tranquillity, and contentment, all the
days that you shall live. See that you dis-
grace not yourself, that you stain not your
honor, nor pollute the lustre and fame of your
ancestors. See that you honor me and your
father, and reflect glory on us by your good
life. May God prosper you, my first-born,
and may you come to God, who is in every
place."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 63


VISIT TO BEAVER.

	Wednesday Afternoon August 30, in com-
pany with Mrs. M. I. Horne, we left the city to
visit Beaver Stake of Zion, in the interest of
woman's organizations, the Deseret Hospital,
the elective franchise, and such matters as per-
tain to those interests. At Milford Mrs. Horne's
Brother, George Hales, of Beaver, met us with
a conveyance and we rode on to Minersville,
where we dined with the Relief Society Presi-
dent, Mrs. Grundy. Then proceeded direct to
Beaver, and arrived at Mrs. Sarah M. Dell's at 6
o'clock Thursday evening, where we were enter-
tained in the most hospitable manner, although
during our stay there we were constantly go-
ing from place to place among the people;
and every where were most cordially wel-
comed.
	On Friday morning, Sept. 1, the Conference
commenced in the Meeting House in Beaver
City, Mrs. Lucinda Houd presiding. Pres.
Murdock was on the stand, and several of the
leading brethren and bishops of that Stake.
The reports, both written and verbal, from the
different branches of the R. S., were very good
indeed; and the meeting was addressed briefly
by the sisters from Salt Lake, and also Mrs.
Lucinda Houd, and President Murdock.
	At 2 P. M. the Conference convened again,
and Sisters Wells, Horne, Tyler and Dell,
each made some remarks. Elder Wm. Fother-
ingham also occupied a short time in speaking.
Conference adjourned for six months.
	After meeting we visited the Primary Fair,
which was opened in the Relief Society Hall,
where we saw a nice display of the childrens'
work. It would be impossible to enumerate
all the articles, but some of the most noticable.
An elegant tidy, Lillie Murdock; wool mat;
Clara Slaughter; elegant worked book-mark,
Katie Slaughter; pair wool mats, Jennie Gillis
embroidered handkerchief, Melia White; Mary
Ann Limb, handsome silk-lined work basket,
2 tidies; crochet lace, Hattie Anderson; home-
made straw hat, very fine and pretty, Sarah
May Coleman; home-knit stockings, Julia
Farnsworth; wool mat, Harriet Mumford;
puzzle pincushion, Henrietta Schofield; ingeni-
ous picture frame of burrs, Hattie Fathering-
ham; wool mats, Jane Anderson and Annie
Davey; 2 pairs handsome openwork stockings,
Mary A. Tolton; wool mats, May Belle Fother-
ingham; picture frame, Clara Fotheringham;
one jar preserved apples, May Ashworth; cor-
nucopia, Lettie Limb, four years old. Mary
A. Law, very pretty needle-book; Louisa Fer-
rar, very nice loaf of bread; Mary Ferrar, but-
ter; Sarah Ellen Fotheringham, child's dress
of home-made cloth; quilts nicely pieced and
quilted, by the Primary children; mottoes of
all varieties worked by the children; Rhoda
J. Shephard, five years old, match safe; Laura
Ashworth, card-case; Sarah E. Law, card re-
ceiver; Lizzie Ward, five years old, pincushion;
Edith Slaughter cornucopia; Alice Robinson,
crochet mat; Hattie Mumford, daisy mats;
Mary Ashworth, large ornamented cornucopia;
Julia E. Shephard handsome needle book;
wool mat, variety of colors, Annie Davey; 2
cradle-quilts, Mona Schofield, Sarah Hutchins.
Baby's wool sacque home-made. The ten com-
mandments and the Lord's Prayer, elaborately


worked and framed. From the boy's, crook-
necked squashes, table, cupboard, ladder, and
lots of other things.
	In the evening there was a general meeting
for the young people, and all were invitted.
The meeting was a full one, many young peo-
ple of both sexes were present, and the remarks
of the sisters were calculated to inspire them,
with earnestness and zeal in the work of
improvement.
	On Saturday at 10 o'clock the Conference of
Y. L. M. I. A., convened Mrs. Mary E. Ash-
worth presiding. Minutes and reports were
read and verbal reports given. Besides the
ladies from Salt Lake, Mrs. M. E. Ashworth, and
Pres. Murdock, and Mrs. L. Houd, addressed
the Conference. In the afternoon the Prim-
ary Conference was held Mrs. Jane Gillis pre-
siding. There were a few exercises very well
rendered by the children. There were paesent
on the stand Apostle F. M. Lyman, Pres.
Hinckley of Millard Stake, Elders Wm. Rob-
inson of Fillmore, and Hon. Edward Dalton of
Iron County. Elder Lyman made some inter-
esting remarks, after the ladies had finished
speaking. Conference adjourned for six
months.
	On Monday we left Beaver early and held
meeting with the Primary Association at
Greenville, at 9 A. M. Mrs. Jane Edwards
presiding; the children, about fifty in number,
were orderly and manifested much interest.
At 10, the Relief Society met, and the children
were dismissed. Mrs. Ann Richards presiding
over the meeting, which was an interesting
one. After partaking of a bountiful dinner at
Bishop Lillywhite's, we went on to Adamsville.
Met with the Primary Association at 2 P. M.
Mrs. Ann Gunn presiding.
	At 3 P. M. the Relief Society convened,
Mrs. Ann Jones presiding. From there we
drove on to Minersville, and met with the
young people in the evening, Mrs. Lydia Black-
burn presiding. There was quite a large audi-
ence and the meeting was an interesting one.
The next morning at 9 o'clock, the Primary
Association met and had a very interesting
meeting, Mrs. Lydia Blackburn presiding. At
10 the Relief Society, met Mrs. Bathsheba B.
Grundy presiding.
	We found the Relief Societies in good work-
ing order, but the sisters were hungering for
instruction in their several duties from some
persons, who were constantly in a position to
comprehend the needs of the hour. We left
Minersville about 2 P. M. on Thursday, and
arrived in Salt Lake at 10, on Wednesday
morning. Mrs. Horne stopped off at Deseret, to
visit her daughter, and met with the Relief
Society and Associations in that place. We
shall remember with pleasure our visit to Bea-
ver Co.,and the liberality of the people in con-
tributing to the Deseret Hospital.


64 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE TEMPLES OF THE LORD.

	The Temples now being built to the Lord,
will be dedicated to him for his work to be
performed in, and will stand as monuments in
time and all eternity, showing forth a tangible
kingdom to be established in the last days upon
the earth. Although unfinished they stand
forth in grand relief in our mountain vales,
and no Latter-day Saint can look upon these
gigantic edifices without peculiar feelings of awe,
and sublimity, and as we read the words of
Solomon, when he built a house to the Lord,
he felt his weakness, so great was the magnitude
of the work for so great an end. Said Soloman
"But will God in very deed dwell with men on
the earth?" Behold heaven and the heaven
of heavens cannot contain thee: how much less
this house which I have built!" Solomon of-
fered up a most efficient prayer for the people
of the Lord, and the Lord appeared to Solo-

[Column 2]
﻿mon and said to him, "I have heard thy
prayers and have chosen this place to myself
for a house of sacrifice." He also made prom-
ises to Solomon in regard to curses that should
come upon the land on account of sin. The
dearth, locusts and pestilence. "Now mine
eyes shall be opened, and mine ears attent un-
to the prayer that is made in this place," 11
Chronicles chap. vii. One Temple was sufficient
in those days but now many are necessary, to
perform the work of the last days; and let us
be diligent in assisting to build our temples,
that our Father in heaven will commune with
us, and turn away our afflictions; the canker
worm, caterpillar, and all devouring insects, our
enemies, and all sin; that we may go into these
holy temples with clean hands, and pure hearts
and rejoice in the God of Israel, who has ac-
counted us worthy to build temples to his holy
name, wherein we can attend to the redemption
of our dead; open the prison doors and let the
captive free.
	"Behold I will send my messenger and he
shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord,
whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his Tem-
ple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom
ye delight in: he shall come, with the Lord of
hosts." But who may abide the day of his
coming? Malachi chapter iii: "And I will
come near to you to judgment, and I will be a
swift witness against the sorcress, and against
the adulteress, and against false swearers, and
against those who oppress the hireling in his
wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that
turn aside the stranger from his right, and fear
not me; saith the Lord of hosts." Also 5th
and 6th verses last chapter, "Behold I will send
you Elijah the prophet before the coming of
the great, and dreadful day of the Lord."
	"And he shall turn the hearts of the fathers
to the children, and the hearts of the children
to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth
with a curse."
	Many prayers were heard and answered in
the Temple at Jerusalem. Zacharias was pro-
mised a child the forerunner of Christ. Han-
nah was blessed by the high priest Eli, in the
house of the Lord, and had a son. Samuel
who was a mighty prophet was raised up in
that house. The Latter-day Saints have also
been blessed in the temples that have been
built, and many things made known by vision,
revelation, and the pure and the holy Spirit of
the Lord, has been poured out in great abund-
ance.
	What a great satisfaction it will be to those
who give their mite toward the great and noble
work, the building of the temples of the Lord
in the last days, to bring about God’s purposes
for the winding up scene.
						M. A. M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Sep. 6th, 1881.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	SOPHIE MAY has a new book for girls in
preparation. The title is, "The Odd One."

	THE Athol Transcrpit publishes a long list
of tax-payers in that town. Of the four
highest taxpayers, one is a woman. The Tran-
script is willing women should be taxed,but not
willing they should have any voice in the use
or amount of the tax.

	THE sending of medical women from Eng-
land to India is likely to be an established cus-
tom. The Indian women are averse to treat-
ment by physicians not of their own sev. The
statistics of the British medical service in
India show that the women have rarely
availed themselves of prescriptions or attend-
ance. A staff of trained women is proposed
as a part of the public service in India, a de-
portment coordinate and not subordinate to
the existing medical bureau.—Ex.


Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1882.	No. 9.


WHAT DOES IT MATTER TO ME?

If a stormcloud be over us riven,
	The very next thing that we know—
		Right over us bending—
		A glory transcending,
	Is the promised, the beautiful Bow.
So if justice be from us withheld;
	Or there's something we'd like that we see;
		If we can't now obtain it,
		In time we may gain it,
	I wont let it matter to me.

Dame Fortune herself, like a see-saw,
	Pulls even her pets up, and down;
		While some are lamenting,
		She's something inventing—
	To lift them to wealth or renown.
But 'tis best not to trust to her always,
	"Work and wait," to success, 'tis the key,
		What if fortune be blind?
		Or to others more kind,
Need it matter to you or to me ?

If you needs must appear out of date—
	To hold up your head have a care;
		If somebody dashing—
		Should snub you in passing,
	Don't wilt neath their insolent stare.
Some, lacking more wisdom than style,
By dress, count your class and degree;
		Shall we ape their condition,
		To win recognition?
	What matters their notice to me?

For thanks be to Providence! surely.
	We've friends, who are sterling as steel.
		Who ask not our station,
		Our income, or nation—
	Caring less for our looks than our weal;
While such are vouchsafed us we will not—
	We cannot disconsolate be;
		Whilst for friends we are grateful,
		Folks haughty and hateful—
	Matter little or nothing to me.

Oh! what should they matter indeed;
	[-] our hands and our hearts are but clean,
		There's One high above us,
		Will own us, and love us—
	Though lowly our pathway has been.
And so,'when my body shall rest,
	In peace with the quiet and free,
		If I slumber protected,
		By marble erected
Or no, will it matter to me ?

And yet, I would like that a few
	Should tenderly think o'er my dust,
		Here lies a frail woman,
		Like all the world human,
	Who was honest, and true to her trust.
In place of a monument grand—
	Plant near me a flower or tree;
		So friendship undying,
		May mark where I'm lying,
	But I doubt if 'twill matter to me.

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, Sept, 24th, 1882.


[Column 1]
THE TEST CASE.

CHIEF JUSTICE HUNTER'S DECISION.

THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE ACT VALID IN EVERY
PARTICULAR.

	At 2 o'clock, September 14, a decision was
rendered in the Third District Court, in the
case brought to test the validity of the Utah
Statute conferring upon women the elective
franchise. The attorneys on both sides were in

[Column 2]
Court, and a large number of persons interested
in the case were present.
	Following, in full, is the

OPINION OF CHIEF JUSTICE HUNTER.

	In the matter of the application of Florence
Westcott, for the writ of mandamus, directed
to William Showell, deputy registrar of voters
of the First Precinct of Salt Lake City, County
of Salt Lake and Territory of Utah.
	The applicant, Florence L. Westcott, asks
for the writ of mandamus, and presents her
affidavit, in which she sets forth, that she is a
female citizen of the United States, native
born, and over twenty-one years of age; that
she is the wife of Edward Westcott, who is a
native born citizen of the United States, that
she is a resident of the First Precinct of Salt
Lake City, Salt Lake County and Territory of
Utah; that she has resided over two years in
said county, and more than six months last
past in said First Precinct; that on the 11th
day of September, A. D., 1882, pursuant to the
notice of William Showell, the deputy registrar
of voters in and for said First Precinct, duly
commissioned, qualified and acting as such reg-
istration officer in and for said precinct, and
then and there before him she offered to register
as a voter according to law, and offered to take
the oath prescribed by the statute of Utah
applicable to women or female voters, and also
the oath prescribed by the Commissioners of
Election for the Territory of Utah: and offered
to prove that she possessed all the qualifications
required by the act conferring upon woman
the elective franchise passed by the Gover-
nor and Legislative Assembly of the Territory
of Utah, approved February 12th, 1870; and
that she was not disqualified by reason of any-
thing in the acts of Congress referring to elec-
tions and electors in this Territory passed and
approved March 22, 1882. She further in
said affidavit states that she possessed all the
qualifications required under the Territorial
act aforesaid; and that she did no act or acts
contrary to the provisions of said constitutional
act or any act of Congress; that she did at the
time and place aforesaid demand of and from
the said William Showell that the oath be ad-
ministered to her and said proofs taken, and
that said registration officer should enter her
name on the list of persons qualified to vote at
elections in said precinct.
	That said William Showell as such deputy
and registration officer, then and there refused
to administer said oath and refused to receive
said proof, and refused to register her name as
a voter on the ground, as he alleged, that there
is no valid authority authorizing women to
vote, and that there is no authority for the reg-
istering of women as voters in this Territory.
	She further swears that by said action of
said registration officer she will be deprived of
the right to vote conferred upon her by the
statutes of Utah, unless the said registration
officer be compelled by the Court to administer
said oath and take said proofs.
	Upon the filing of this affiavit in the clerk's
office an alternative writ of mandamus was
issued in the usual form, and the case set down
to be heard on the 14th day of September, A.
D., 1882, at one o'clock p.m. At which time
the case was called for argument, Sutherland
and McBride appearing as counsel for the re-
spondent, and S. J. Jonasson, Samuel Merritt,

[Column 3]
Arthor Brown and Judge Harkness for the ap
plicant.
	Sutherland and McBride, attorneys for re-
spondent, filed a motion to quash the writ on
the grounds:
	1st. The facts stated in the affidavits and
writ are not sufficient to authorize the writ in
this.
	2d. The said applicant to be registered as a
voter is not and was not on the day mentioned
a lawful voter, because she is and was a woman,
and such person cannot exercise the elective
franchise except by a direct violation of the
laws of the United States.
	The only question submitted to the Court,
and upon which arguments were heard, was as
to the validity or constitutionality of the act
passed by the Governor and Legislative Assem-
bly of the Territory of Utah approved Febru-
ary 12, 1870.
	I do not deem it necessary in this case to en-
ter into the discussion of the questions which
have been so often discussed as to be almost
threadbare, involving the powers of the Con-
gress of the United States over the Territories
of the United States and will assume that as to
all things pertaining to this Territory such
power is supreme. The division of the Terri-
tory of the United States into different parcels,
defining its boundaries and limits, and giving
to each particular parcel (a name, is the usual
mode adopted by Congress in setting up a
district which in common parlance has come
to be known by the distinctive term Territory.
At the time of which setting apart, the Con-
gress of the United States has usually enacted
in the form of statute, a code of laws termed an
Organic Act, which includes in its provisions
the granting of certain powers to the people re-
siding within the prescribed territorial limits.
The powers thus granted are for the purpose
enabling the people residing in the Territory
to form some kind of government for their
government and protection. It is well under-
stood that all such powers, so long as the terri-
torial existence continues, are delegated powers
emanating from the sovereign power, and sub-
ject to be recalled, limited or enlarged. What-
ever power which is thus granted, subject only
to the power of the Congress to recall limit or
enlarge, is supreme; and so far as the internal
regulation of the affairs of a Territory is con-
cerned, confers upon the people within the Ter-
ritory a governmental existence.
	In accordance with this usual custom, the
Congress of the United States, on the 9th of
September, 1850, passed an act to establish a
Territorial government for Utah. Prior to
this enactment no distinctive parcel of the do-
main of the government for Utah. Prior to
this enactment no distinctive parcel of the do-
main of the government was known as the
Territory of Utah. When that enactment was
passed it came into existence. Its boundaries
were established and the form of its government
under the Constitution and laws of the United
States was marked out, and the power of enter-
ing into the business of forming a territorial
government was conferred upon the people
therein.
	The executive power and authority was
vested in a Governor who was to be appointed
by the President of the United States. A Sec-
retary was to be appointed in like manner.
The legislative power and authority was vested
in a Governor and a Legislative Assembly.
	Section four of this Organic Act provided
the way and means of electing the members of


[Column 1]
the Legislative Assembly. By this section it
is provided that previous to the first election,
the Governor should cause a census or enum-
eration of the inhabitants of the several coun-
ties and districts of the Territory to be taken,
and the first election should be held at such
time and places, and be conducted in such
manner as the Governor should appoint and
direct.	*	*	*	And the persons thus elected
to the Legislative Assembly should meet at
such place and on such day as the Governor
should appoint: but thereafter, the time and
place and manner of holding and conducting
all elections by the people	*	*	*	*
should be prescribed by law enacted by the
Territorial Legislature. The means there be-
ing provided, for holding a first election, Con-
gress, by Section 5 of the Organic Act, pro-
vided who should be entitled to vote at that
election, and enacted "that every free, white
male inhabitant above the age of twenty-one
years, who shall have been a resident of said
Territory at the time of the passage of this act
(September 9,1850) shall be entitled to vote
at the first election."
	By this provision then, at this first election,
any inhabitant, and this whether he be a citizen
of the United States or not, being a free, white
male above the age of twenty-one years, who
shall have been a resident in the Territory,
September 9, 1850, was a voter. So far as
that election was concerned the qualifications
of one to be a voter thereat were two in num-
ber, viz:
	First—A free, white, male inhabitant, above
the age of twenty-one years.
	Second—He must have been a resident of
the Territory at the time-of the passage of the
Organic Act, September 9th, 1850.
	Persons having these prerequisite qualifica-
tions became voters, and by their votes elected
a Legislative Assembly, and that Legislative
Assembly was the one which by the provisions
of section 4 of the Organic Act was to meet at
such place and on such day as the Governor
should appoint. When it was so elected, and
did so meet, then it had the power to prescribe
by law the time, place and manner of holding
and conducting all elections by the people.
Section 5 of the Organic Act provides, after
fixing the qualifications of the voters at said
first election, "that the qualifications of voters
*	*	*	at all subsequent elections shall be
such as shall be prescribed by the Legislative
Assembly, Provided, that the right of suffrage
and of holding office shall be exercised only by
citizens of the United States including those
recognized as citizens by the treaty with the
Republic of Mexico concluded February 2nd,
1848."
	The function of the voter who was to vote at
the first election having been fully performed
when he voted at that election, he thereafter
ceased to be a voter at any subsequent election,
and could only be qualified as a voter when
he showed himself possessed of the prerequi-
sites required by the Legislative Assembly.
	Subsequent to the enactment of the Organic
Act above referred to and in 1874, the Con-
gress of the United States enacted sections 1859
and 1860. Until the enactment of these two
sections the Organic Act of Utah remained in
force and the qualifications of voters at all
elections after the first election were as pre-
scribed by the Legislative Assembly of that
Territory.
	Section 1859, having relation only to the
qualifications of electors at the time of the first
election held on the organization of a Territory
can have no bearing so far as Utah is con-
cerned, for at the date of its enactment Utah
had had her first election, and was an organ-
ized Territory.
	Sec. 1860 is as follows:
	"At all subsequent elections, however, in

[Column 2]
any Territory hereafter organized by Congress,
as well as at all elections in Territories already
organized, the qualifications of voters	*	*	*
shall be such as may be prescribed by the Leg-
islative Assembly of each Territory, subject
nevertheless to the following restrictions on the
power of the Legislative Assembly namely:
	"First. The right of suffrage and of hold-
ing office shall be exercised only by citizens of
the United States above the age of twenty-one
years, and by those above that age who have
declared on oath before a competent court of
record, their intention to become such, and
have taken an oath to support the Constitution
of the United States."
	The effect of this section is plain, and limits
the Legislative Assemblies of all the Territories
in the power to confer the elective franchise,
to persons who are citizens of the United States
above the age of twenty-one years, and to per-
sons who, not being native born or naturalized
citizens, are above the ago of twenty-one years,
who have declared on oath before a competent
court of record their intention to become citi-
zens and have taken an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States. It is thus
made clear that the power to confer the elec-
tive franchise is conferred by the sovereign
power upon the Legislative Assembly of this
Territory, limited in its exercise as provided
by the first restrictive clause of section 1860,
Revised Statutes. This section became the
law in 1874, and since then has been in opera-
tion.
	Section 5 of the Organic Act provided that
at the first election the voter should be a male
citizen above the age of 21 years. Sec. 3 of
the act of the Utah Legislative Assembly ap-
proved January 21, 1859, provided that a
voter must be a male citizen of the United
States.
	The first two, as we have seen, only fixes the
qualifications for a voter at the first election.
	It nowhere appears in all the legislation had
upon the subject that Congress, except in fix-
ing the qualifications of a voter at the time of
the organization of a Territory, has limited or
attempted to limit the power of the Legislative
Assemblies of the Territories to the male quali-
fication. Pursuing the grant of a power to con-
fer the right of suffrage as given by Sec. 1860,
it has been undoubtedly left to the Legislative
Assemblies of the Territories to say if or not
they will confer upon males and females, or up-
on either, the right of suffrage.
	The Utah Legislative Assembly, by the Act
of January 21, 1859, conferred the right of
suffrage only upon the male citizen of the Un-
ited States over twenty-one years of age who
had been a constant resident in the Territory
during the six months next preceding an elec-
tion and who was a taxpayer.
	With the ample power conferred by Con-
gress upon the Legislative Assemblies of the
Territories in determining the qualification of
voters, it is certain it was within the power of
the Utah Legislature to enact the law of Jan-
uary, 1859. I think it may clearly be assumed
that so far as the qualifications of an elector
are concerned, it was the intention of Congress,
subject to the restrictions of Sec. 1860, to leave
the Territories as free as are the independent
States.
	By the Act of January, 21, 1859, a class of
voters was made, and their qualifications were
determined. When the Act was passed, the
Legislature without doubt intended to confine
the right of suffrage to males, and as long as
that Act continued to be the law of the Terri-
tory, only males could vote. But the Utah
Legislature passed an "Act entitled an act con-
ferring upon women the elective franchise,"
which was approved Feburary 12,1870, which
is as follows:

	"That every woman of the age of 21 years

[Column 3]
who has resided in this Territory sex months
next preceding any general or special election,
born or naturalized in the United States; or who
is the wife, or widow or daughter of a native
born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this
Territory."
	This Act, if standing by itself, and if there
was no doubt of power on the part of the Leg-
islative Assembly to confer the right of suf-
frage would confer upon the class of persons
named in it that right. It is undoubtedly true
that a woman of the age of 21 years, who is
native born, or who has been naturalized, is a
citizen of the United States, and it is further
undoubtedly true that a wife or widow of a
naturalized citizen is a citizen of the United
States. And it is further true that a daughter
of a native born citizen of the United States is
a citizen, and that the daughter of a naturalized
citizen, is a citizen of the United States, if at
the time of the naturalization of her parents,
she was under the age of twenty-one years. To
entitle a woman to vote under this law she
would have to be of the age of twenty-one years,
and have been a resident of this Territory six
months next preceding any general or special
election. And this whether she be a single
woman, married woman, widow or daughter.
	The conflict between the contending parties
in this case, arises because of the difference of
opinion upon these two Acts of the Utah Legis-
lature. The Respondent claiming that the Act
conferring the right of suffrage upon women is
unconstitutional, and because it does not impose
upon woman the duty of proving that she is a
citizen, or that she is a tax-payer, thus making,
as is claimed, a more favored class of voters.
I do not think such is a legal construction of
the act. The Legislature was dealing with the
subject of suffrage—who should be voters. It
had already legislated upon that subject, and
had restricted the class of voters to males. Its
intention was no doubt to make another class,
to take from the males who had under the act
of 1859 the exclusive privilege, and confer a
like privilege upon females. The two laws
must be construed together. If they can be
both made to harmonize, it is plainly the duty
of the Court to sustain them both. Courts are
called upon to construe, not to make laws, and
when the Legislature gravely enacts a law, if
that law is attacked the Courts must, with an
equal degree of gravity, scrutinize it in all its
phases, and should be careful not to declare it
unconstitutional, unless it is plainly so. In my
opinion these two laws taken in conjunction
with the defined powers conferred by Congress
can be made to stand together. The act of
1859 is full and complete, it has no constitu-
tional defects, and that of 1870 can be and
should be treated as only an enlargement of
the privileges to the citizens of the Territory.
Whilst there may be want of uniformity in the
two acts, there is no deprivation of any right.
The male voter still retains his old rights.
There is no abridging of his privileges. An-
other class of citizens are brought forward by
the act of 1870 and constituted voters. Each
exercises in the same way the right of suffrage,
and each are made voters by the respective
laws.
	The motion to quash the right is denied, and
the respondent is ordered to enter the name of
the applicant on the list.
	There are, as I understand, other cases, in-
volving the same question presented in this
one, and as it was agreed in the argument that
this should be a test case, the proper orders
in these cases will be made conformably to this
holding.
	Exceptions noted by the respondents.


66 ﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INDIANA has 2352 women engaged in farm-
ing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 67


SARAH.

I'm glad I know thee, gentle, faithful one,
	And that I felt thy spirit blend with mine,
As kindred rivulets together run,
	Or sister branches 'round each other twine.

Thy memory shall remain with me, dear girl,
	Forever cherished, sacred and secure,
Like the soft lustre of a royal pearl,
	For thou wert good and innocent and pure.

And thou art gone unto the dearest place
	I know, or think, or hear of, anywhere;
Closing my eyes I often seem to trace
	The outlines of our many loved ones there.

Eliza! Oh how joyfully you met
	That bright young sister, eager first to greet!
My baby girls! say have you seen them yet?
	My precious lambs, so loving and so sweet!

I almost hear you tenderly respond,
	And listen breathlessly, but ah, 'tis gone!
I'm here, you're in the "beautiful beyond,"
	The veil is thin, but yet, not quite withdrawn.

										LULA.


[Column 1]
MRS. SCOTT SPEAKS AGAIN.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	I hope that you, and the many kind friends
who have replied to my letters, will not think
less of me if I own to a physical defect—I am
very nearsighted—have very defective eyes
which many of my friends consider a great
affliction; but it does not trouble me greatly,
as I see a great deal any way; but sometimes it
annoys me, especially of an evening, when 'tis
muddy, as I step on what I suppose is a stepping
stone and put my foot over shoe-top into mud
or water. I have been laughed at and annoyed
often by such happenings.
	Now perhaps I am religiously a bit near-
sighted too, for just such things happen to me
in groping my way along the religious path.
	When twelve years of age I "believed and
was baptized," believed because my parents and
relatives did, and was baptized for the same
reason. I never believed really: was conceived
in faith, brought forth in repentance, and raised
on baptism. Was reared as strictly in the
church as Paul was a Pharisee; and got along
finely while too young to walk alone, reli-
giously, but as I grew older my defective reli-
gious eyesight began to cause me to step on im-
aginary stones, and I am continually getting
into the mud.
	Now, Mormonism appeared to me to be a
safe stepping stone—I was not quite sure, so
stepped cautiously—put my foot down very
carefully. Am I in the mud, likely to get my
death of cold by wet feet?
	Mary Ann Pratt said in her last kind letter:
"Perhaps you might believe in the book called
'The Book of Mormon' if you should read its
contents." I have read considerably in the
Book of Mormon, but could not understand it.
But I thought "Well, I'll read 'The Book of
Mormon' again." Not with prejudice, but
with a sincere desire to learn, so took it down
from the book-case, and read till I came to
chapter second of "Jacob," page 118, then
closed the book saying: "Pshaw! mud again up
to my ankles."
	The passages of Scripture the lady recited
and referred to, are as familiar to my mind as
the alphabet. If she has ever listened to Camp-
ellite preaching she will believe me, for those
scriptures are part of their very forcible argu-
ments, and to them mean, "Go ye into all the
world and preach the gospel (as Alexander
Campbell preached it) to every creature."
"Though we, or an angel from heaven preach
'Mormonism' or any other doctrine (than
Alexander Campbell preaches) let him be
accursed."
	The Methodists, the Baptists, and all the

[Column 2]
others use the same arguments. Now where
am I to find a solid stone to step upon?
	Mary F. says: "I wish you could believe as
we do for you would certainly be happier." I
am happy too, full of fun and happiness, my
religious friends think, but this question of re-
ligion demands my attention and perplexes me
until I am worried. Mary F. further says: "It
does not affect us to see the wicked prosper as
it does you, for we know that their reign is
short, that God will come out of his hiding
place and vex the wicked with a sore vexa-
tion."
	So there I'm in the mud again, for that
"vexing the wicked" is what makes me bitter
and unhappy; for religiously "the wicked" in-
cludes all who differ from the Church.
	I find no comfort or joy in the thought of
vexing others with a sore vexation. Why not
prevent the wickedness? I should, had I the
power. It provokes me to see the wickedness
prosper. In our old copy books we used to
have: "Be virtuous and you will be happy."
"Honesty is the best policy," etc. Now I
should have them read: "Be happy and you
will be virtuous." "Policy is the best honesty."
Happiness is the soul, the quintessence of my
religion. Let no future punishment, no vexa-
tion come into it. I expect to go to heaven
"on flowery beds of ease," religiously speaking.
	When a storm comes up and wind, thunder
and lightning are scaring most children, mine
say: "We're not afraid, Ma is here." That is
the religious faith I want. Where shall I find
it? The songs of the birds give me exquisite
joy, fill my soul with loving pleasure; but I
would not have a pet bird in a cage—have its
cage to clean, and the care and worry every
time I went from home, fearing I had forgotten
to give sufficient food and drink.
	Neither do I want a pet religion. It is
neither useful nor ornamental. Religion
should like the forest song-birds make us look
up, fill our souls, hearts and lives with melody,
thankfulness and love. My heart goes out to
you Mormon women with love. I do not know
whether I could believe just us you do on many
points, and if you make a point of the differ-
ence, I shall have to do as I do with the church-
es here, keep still, and wonder if I am so
much in the wrong, and why my faith will not
cling to the texts to which they fasten their
hopes of future happiness.
	Mary F. says again: "We do not feel as those
who are not of our faith, because we know if
our children are faithful to the laws laid down
in this Church for the guidance of the Saints,
they will be saved from the sins and corrup-
tions of the outside world."
	Yes, if: If my children regulate their lives by
the New Testament, and the statutes of Ohio,
they will be saved from sin and corruption too,
but will they so regulate their lives, or will they
be wicked and be vexed with a sore vexation?
	Hoping the ladies of whom I have spoken
will take my words kindly, as they are meant,
and will write to me again, through the EXPON-
ENET—be a Phillip to the seeking, earnest
eunuch and explain unto me the doctrines of
the "peculiar people" the Mormons. I remain
with kindest regards to all,
							EMILY SCOTT.


ADVICE TO MRS. SCOTT.

	[Answer to letter in No. 16 of the Woman's
Exponent headed, "Some Facts."]

	To be good is to be happy. Is there any
thing in Mormonism that is not good ? Positive
good, comparative better, superlative best. I
think the best thing for you, is to embrace the
first principles of the Gospel, by being baptized,
by one having authority, and then you will
know for yourself the gifts and blessings do


follow all believers. It is very natural fo
mortals to feel after happiness. When I readr
the Bible and all good books, I find the Lord
in a very peculiar manner bestow great bless-
ings, upon men and women who lived in plural
marriage; we will notice Sarah, who told Abra-
ham to enter into that order, and after she was
very old the Lord told her that in her seed all
the nations of the earth should be blessed, then
we find her grandson with four wives, and they
had twelve sons; John the Revelator, sees the
city the New Jerusalem with twelve gates, and
their names were written thereon, and if you
read in Volume 7 of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, you
will find strong testimony of the happiness of
women living in plurality, and if you were well
acquainted with that paper you would find that
Mormon women went to President Hayes, in
the name of all the Mormon women of Utah,
that they might not be disturbed in their mar-
riage relations.
	My heart is full of joy and gratitude to my
Heavenly Father for the privilege of spending
the last twelve years of my life in that holy
order of marriage.		JANE COWAN.


A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Continued.

	In December 1877, another honor was con-
ferred upon Mrs. Horne. She was chosen to
preside over the Relief Society in this Stake of
Zion. "Sister Eliza" proposed her name, and
the matter was referred to the presiding auth-
orities of the Church, and also to Pres. A. M.
Cannon of this Stake. At a special meeting
Mrs. Horne was unanimously sustained to pre-
side in that capacity. She chose for her Coun-
selors, Elmina S. Taylor and Sarepta M. Hey-
wood; since that time her Second Counselor
has died, and Helen Mar Whitney was selected
to fill, the position.
	She has labored faithfully among the Relief.
Societies in this Stake, as well as in other parts
of the Territory. Her name is held in high
esteem as a mother in Israel.
	At a Primary meeting in July 1878, Mrs.
Horne was chosen as one of the delegates to the
County Convention, from the precinct in which
she resides. This was a new movement in
politics, as previous to this, although women
had voted eight years, none had ever been
called upon to work practically in this direc-
tion. At the convention following, Mrs
Horne was appointed on the committee for
nomination, and she performed her duties as
efficiently as any of the gentlemen of the com-
mittee. After the nominations had been sus-
tained, it was proposed by one of the ladies
present that some ladies be added to the Cen-
tral Committee. A vote was taken the propos-
ition accepted, and three ladies were added to
the committee. Mrs. Horne was one of the
three. Thus step by step, she has advanced
in the progressive movements that have been
made, and still maintained womanly dignity.
Since that time she has frequently acted in
political matters, and shown herself quite equal
to the occasion. Her duties at home as a wife
and mother are not few, but she is so method-
ical and orderly as to economize time as well as
means. She has always been a fine needlewo-
man, and fond of embroidery and fancy work,
and by saving all the odd moments in doing
dainty little things of this sort, she has made
her home ornaments and her house is filled
with the work of her own hands. Her
daughters follow in the mother’s footsteps, and
those who are married seem as practical and
orderly as need be for domestic happiness, and
well-being of the family and home.


68	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $[-].00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman's EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	OCTOBER 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
GOING TO THE CONVENTION.

	Saturday morning, up with the lark, hur-
ried preparations for starting, bade good bye
for a week or so to home and loved ones,
and took the early morning train for
Ogden, chatting pleasantly all the way with
old acquaintances. The day was a glorious
one, and every thing fresh in the morning sun.
At Ogden, we went on board the Union Pacific
train, new car, KEARNEY, very elegant, parlor,
dining-room and bed-rooms all combined. Here
we found ourselves in the company of some
strangers, who had a great curiosity about Mor-
mons, and anxious to see a man with more
wives; one very sweet young girl, with a pretty
face and golden curls, longed to see a man with
two wives, another wanted to see one with eight
or ten wives. The scenery, however, was much
more attractive than the chatter and gossip
about "our people," and gazing out upon the
hills and fields one found abundant food for re-
flection.
	The mountains were even more beautiful now
than when robed in the bright, green, robe of
summer; the tints were growing mellower and
the landscape more picturesque. Beautiful
mountain vales, and shady nooks near limpid
streams where soft willows drooped fringing the
water’s edge so gracefully. The little brown
birds flitted in and out, and chirped merrily
in the sunshine, bending the long branches
down to the water's surface. High mountains
towered loftily towards the blue sky, and afar
in the distance the while caps glistened in the
sunlight. Here and there great tufts of velvety
locking low bushes contrasted with the barren
rocky cliffs, where occasionally a straight pine
tree rose apparently from out the solid rock;
and with the gorgeously tinted shrubbery, made
a picture so charming that one might well
wonder if this were the land of sage-brush, sun-
flowers and cat-tails. The scenery was diversi-
fied, making a pleasing contrast to the traveler
if seeking rest from business and bustle. The
immense rugged and rough heights of red rock
stood like giant mansions, old fortifications, or
the ruined castles of a departed race. Irregular
and fantastical, yes even wierd enough to satisiy
the most imaginative fancy that in some of
these quaint old crags and cliffs, robbers might
have had their strongholds, and could the
mountains speak, what wonderful legends might
be unfolded. But passing from the unreal to
the positive, here were the Rocky Mountains,
sublime in their grandeur. Below were the
habitations of men in every available nook and
corner, and groan fields of lucerne, wheat just
stacked, and sometimes a "meadow sweet with
hay" new mown and fragrant. And further on
away from the haunts of men, and where the
brooks lay in the low grass at the foot of the
mountains, ornamented, shapely elderberry trees
were clustered together, the luscious fruit purply

[Column 2]
blue lay in flat rich heavy bunches, on the grace-
ful, drooping boughs.
	Carried away mentally with the charms of
mountain scenery, one could not help forgetting,
for the time being, the errand upon which we
were going, and the importance attached to the
special question about to be discussed on the
public platform. The blue hills stretching away
In the distance were gently bathing in the pur-
ple haze, and the gray shadows were gathering
as the sunset faded in the West. One could
never tire of such natural beauties though it was
easy to be dreamy and pensive.
	On Sunday morning, between Rawlins and
Laramie, as we were steaming along, we saw a
small herd of antelopes not more than a half a
mile away, it was quite a sight as those pretty
creatures are now very seldom seen so near the
railroad track. At Laramie we got off to get a
cup of tea. It was easy to see it was Sunday, for
the people were in their Sunday attire. Little
children with their Sunday School books just
starting towards the meeting house. As we
traveled farther East on the road, the country
grew flatter and less to see—the mountains were
still blue in the immense distance, and a few still
wore their snowy caps. As we neared Cheyenne
we came to Dale Creek bridge, quite a curiosity;
every body went out to look, even Mr. Jennings.
It is very slenderly built, though It may be just
as strong as is necessary. The rocks on both
sides, as we passed down through the ravine,
were very handsome and in the morning sun
they looked like the coarse rough specimens of
amethyst. The snow sheds are a great nuisance
when one Is writing, for you no sooner get
started than darkness blinds you.
	At Sherman there was a curiosity shop or sort
of museum, specimens of various kinds, but we
no sooner arrived at the door than the conductor
shouted "all aboard," and we were obliged to
turn back. There Is a monument erected there,
and inscribed "To Oliver and Oakes Ames." It
is 60 feet high, square in form and tapers up
from the base, until the top is small; it is built
to stand for ages, and is perfectly solid, cost a for-
tune to erect it; no doubt those who built it had
the pyramids of Egypt In mind, yet we have
not been informed that there is any historic
chronology contained therein. Shortly after
leaving Sherman we came to a grove of cedars,
very beautiful in this desert waste. A perfect
picture in the sunlight, and made one feel as if
they were not quite outside vegetation.
	Perhaps this is enough, for once, of the jour-
ney to the Convention, and next time we shall
be able to tell what happened there, who we saw
and what transpired. Which will be far more
interesting to most of our readers than the
description here given of the Union Pacific
road.


THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE LAW.

	In this number of the EXPONENT it will be seen
that the law of this Territory, giving to women
the right of suffrage has been fully sustained
from the charges made against it by political trick
sters, and discord creators, who have an exist-
ence and are kept before the public only by their
continual harangues and false and vehement
assertions. Both Judges Hunter and Emerson,
sustained the law in every particular, and in the
strongest language at their command, main-
tained the right of the Territorial Legislature to
pass the act which it was attempted to over-
throw, in the interest of a meager and unscru-
pulous minority. Judge Twiss also asserted the
validity of the law, but held that women must
be taxpayers before they could vote. In view,
however, of the rulings of the two Judges first
mentioned, it is most probable that this portion


of Judge Twiss' decision will be ruled against by
the Supreme Court, and that the right of wo-
men to vote under the existing law will remain
undisturbed. The result is no more than was
anticipated, but it is gratifying to know that
we have men on the bench who are not afraid to
breast the waves of wild and unreasoning
clamors of a party frantic for power to which
they are in no way entitled.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	NEW COMPENDIUM—We are enabled to state
that a work entitled “A Compendium of the
Doctrines of the Gospel," compiled by Apostle
Franklin D. Richards and Elder James A. Little,
is from the press, and is now for sale.

	ON Friday next the General Semi-Annual
Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints will commence. In view of
the early harvest and generally favorable
weather, it is believed the attendance will be
unusually large. The interest of the present
times will also be an important factor in draw-
ing together large numbers of the Saints, to be
advised by the authorities.

	ON Monday, Oct. 9th, the Territorial Conven-
tion, for the nomination of a Delegate to Con-
gress, will be held. All the county conventions
have been held and all delegates chosen, and
there is little doubt but a man well qualified to
represent the best interests of the people will be
chosen. Quite a number ot prominent gentle-
men are mentioned in connection with the posi-
tion, any one of whom would be satisfactory to
the people.

	THE National Woman’s Suffrage Convention
met at Omaha on Tuesday, Sept. 26, with a large
delegation of the leading suffrage ladies from
all parts of the United States. Utah was repre-
sented by Sister Emmeline B. Wells, editor of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and by Sister Zina
D. Young. Neither of the ladies has yet re-
turned, but are expected back in a day or two.
In the next number of the EXPONENT, a de-
tailed account of the proceedings will be given.

	THE season now drawing to a close seems to
have been a very happy one for these who fol-
low the foundation industry—farming. Every-
where the reports are of abundant and excellent
harvests, second only to those of the preceding
year, which was perhaps without a parallel in
the history of the Territory. Large and excellent
crops make the heart of the farmer glad, and
send a ray of cheerfulness unconsciously
through the hearts of the whole community; for
what is bleaker and more dismal than a poor
and unsatifactory harvest?

	THE Governor has made a large number of ap-
pointments to various offices in the Territory,
under the authority which he assumes to have
derived from Congress. In Salt Lake County,
nearly all the parties have applied for their
offices but the applications have without excep-
tion been denied. On Wednesday two individ-
uals applied to the courts to force the present
occupants to give up their offices, and the case
will be argued before Judge Hunter on the 10th
of October. The parties are Arthur Pratt, who
wants to be made Sheriff of Salt Lake County,
and one George C. Douglass, who aspires to be
Territorial Auditor. The ablest lawyers have
been secured to defend the rights of the people as
against the pretended rights of these official as-
pirants; and the result is looked forward to with
confidence.

	ON Saturday, Sept. 30th, the County Conven-
tion of the People’s Party of Salt Lake County
was held In the County Court House. There
was a full attendance of delegates, among them


several ladies. The proceedings were com-
menced in the usual manner, and G. M. Ottin-
ger made temporary chairman, and Francis
Cope temporary secretary, who, after the organ-
ization, were made permanent officers. A com-
mittee on credentials consumed some time in
examining the certificates of delegates, during
which time C. W. Penrose, Esq., made a stir-
ring speech. A committee of seven was ap-
pointed to make nominations for delegates to the
Territorial Convention, which meets on Mon-
day, the 9th inst. The committee nominated
sixteen delegates and they were acted on sep-
arately, and all the nominees were sustained by
the convention.
	ELSEWHERE will be found an advertisement
of Dr. Pratt’s, stating that she will resume her
class in obstetrics about the 15th of October.
She states that during the course, lectures will
be given by Drs. Anderson, Benedict and other
prominent and experienced physicians. This is
an opportunity which we would urge all inter-
ested in such matters to avail themselves of. It
is gaining in an easy manner that which Mrs.
Pratt spent great labor and expense in at-
taining. Her large practice is steadily increas-
ing, and the cognizance and assistance of the
leading local physicians are guarantee sufficient
to entice anyone to grasp Mrs. Pratt’s generous
offer. May she have a large and studious class
to reward her for her pains.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RECIPES.

	GREEN TOMATOES PICKLED: 4 quarts of tom-
atoes sliced, 4 oz. salt, 1 tablespoonful of allspice,
3 of cloves, 2 of pepper, 4 of black mustard seed-
3 onions sliced. Put about half the salt into a
kettle with some vinegar. Put the sliced toma-
toes and onions into this and let them boil a few
minutes, skim them out, and let them drain.
Then put them into a jar with remainder of salt
and spices, and cover them with scalding vine-
gar; horseradish root improves them, making
them crisp.
	GREEN TOMATOES PICKLED SWEET: 2 gal. of
tomatoes sliced, 2 qts vinegar, same of sugar, 2
table spoonfuls of salt, 2 of pepper, 1 of allspice, 1
of cloves. Method: Put enough water in a
kettle with a teacup of vinegar, to cover the
tomatoes. Let them scald, then put in a jar,
then take spices and vinegar and let them come
to a boil, and pour over tomatoes. Horseradish
root placed on top of a jar of pickles makes them
crisp. All tried and good recipes.
	SWEET PICKLE PEACHES: 8 lbs of fruit, 4 lbs.
of sugar, 1 pt. of cider vinegar, 1 oz. each of
cloves, allspice, cinnamon. Method, make syrup
with vinegar, sugar and spices, except cloves
which you stick in the peaches, two to each
peach. Put in the fruit and boil till easily pricked
with a straw, take the fruit out, and boil the
syrup 20 minutes longer, then pour it over the
fruit, boil up the syrup three mornings, pour over
fruit and then seal up.
	APPLE JAM: 10 lbs. sugar, 10 lbs. good sour
apples; chopped fine. The grated peel of three
lemons, and a few pieces of white ginger root.
Boil till apples look clear and tender.


[Column 1]

﻿LONGFELLOW IN WESTMINSTER.

	To an American and to those who, though not
native-born, have so long been associated with
the institutions of the United States, as to view
them with patriotic feelings, it is pleasant to
note the efforts now making in the mother
country, to have a bust of Longfellow placed in
Westminster Abbey. As might naturally have
been anticipated, the movement, at its incipien-
cy, met with general though unreasonable oppo-
sition. It was urged that to place a monument

[Column 2]

of an American in a place reverently sacred to
the heroes of grand old England, would be to
sweep away a time-honored custom—a custom
which from its very age, had grown to be looked
upon as inviolate. Westminster Abbey is, if we
may be allowed the expression, viewed as a post
mortem museum of noted Britons. However,
good sense is a characteristic of the English, and
where intelligence and genius are considered,
the British are singularly free from those race
prejudices which seem inherent in people of
whatever nationality. So, after a little delibera-
tion, two or three noted Englishmen endorsed
the proposition, and added the weight of their
approval to the agitation. Nearly all the great
minds of England have favored the movement,
until at present there remains scarcely a doubt
that a bust of Longfellow will be placed along
with those of the kings in fact, and the emper-
ors in thought, in the "tight little isle."
	It is gratifying, as before stated, to think that
there should be a breadth of thought and a
democracy of sentiment among the English as
to tolerate such an invasion of ancient customs;
and it is singularly indicative of the friendly
feeling that is growing up between the mother
country and her brilliant offspring. But more
than all, it is pleasing to note the intellectual
development of an age, which recognizes genius
as belonging to no nationality, but as the pro-
duct of a grand old world, which if created for
any purpose at all, was brought into existence
for the good of all, of whatever nationality,
whatever sex, of whatever color.
	If the Supreme Father sees fit to endow one
person with a far reaching breadth of intellect,
such as will make him pre-eminent among men,
can it be supposed this intellect was intended
for the benefit and the glory of one nation only? or
is it designed for the honor of mankind every-
where? It is natural, and may be due to a wise
provision in nature, that one should point with
pride to the great men his native land has pro-
duced, but he is indeed contracted who would
refuse the meed of praise to acknowledged worth
for the base reason that he belonged to a race
which was individually or generally dispised.
In the onward march of events, the world will
outgrow all these detestable prejudices, and the
admission of a bust of Longfellow into the sainted
precincts of Westminster Abbey must prove a
veritable iconoclast of modern times in the de-
molition of race gods. It points the way to a
cosmopolitan sentiment, leading men to the
idea that they are more like citizens of a glori-
ous world than of any particular nation. Of all
Americans, it is most fitting that this honor
should be paid to Longfellow; not that it can
in anyway effect either him or his fame, but
that all who have felt the sweet influence of his
writings will delight in seeing accorded to him
that which is generally esteemed an undying
honor. Himself as free from prejudice as a
child, with a spirit of a gentleness, and a
heart of love like an angel's, it is indeed fitting
that his name and his fame should be an instru-
ment in destroying the barriers of a race preju-
dice that have so long denied to genius and to
sterling worth admission to universal apprecia-
tion and acknowledged merit. And when his
monument shall have been placed amid the
shades of greatness and grandeur and godlike
nobility of England, it will rather add to than
derive from the sanctity of its surroundings. It
will shed the same sweet influence over the
memory of the great dead with whom it is now
associated, as it did over the lives of those who
lived with the poet and as it does now over the
hearts of those who survive.


FALSEHOOD may have its hour, but it has
no future.—Pressense.


OCTOBER.

	How sadly the light wind sighs through the
tall trees, how mellow the sunlight is, and look
what dark shadows are cast upon the old stone
wall. Each little sunbeam seems like a thread
of gold, that weaves itself into a yellow pattern
on each green leaf, whilst here and there we
find one tinged with bronze and red, and some
are piteously hurled upon the ground; how sad
their rustle breaks upon the ear. Can it be that
Autumn is here ? Yes it most be so, for look up-
on the mountains, where a week since it was
green and mossy, now the light frost has com-
menced its work, and the foliage is changed to
the most brilliant red and yellow. The bushes
hang low with their clusters of red and purple
berries. The soft haze that played around the
hills a week ago is gone, and the sky is bright
and clear again. Ah! what a cool breeze that
was, and see how it shook the green boughs of
the trees, breaking the tender stems and thrust-
ing the rosy cheeked apples in heaps upon the
ground. Each one that remains looks longingly
at the bright eyed children that chatter and laugh
under the spreading boughs as if to say, “take
me, sweet cherub, for at the next gust of wind I
shall fall and bruise my tender skin;” but the
children jump and laugh and fill their little
baskets with the poor things that fell the night
before, little heeding the lonely apples that
stand out on the great bare limbs.
	The birds chirp as they flit from bough to
bough, no doubt wondering why the sun is not
so warm, and why the leaves must wither and
fall. Some of the old wise ones are seeking
homes far away, where it is always summer
Alas! how lonely we shall be without these sweet
songsters. The sparrows quarrel with each other
and the little one worry and chirp about the
warmest place in the nest. The flowers were
never prettier or more fragrant, and you can
scarcely step in the garden without treading on
a vine of morning glories; see, they have even
twined themselves around these weeds by the
walk. How beautiful are their pale delicate hues,
and how innocently they lift their sweet faces
up towards heaven. Thump! On the ground
come some more rosy apples. The children will
have busy work in the morning. The night air
is chilly and the children hurry into the house,
to the nice warm supper that is awaiting them.
Then they gather around the old hearth on
which the bright fire burns; each one listens
quietly while grandma tells about her old home,
where there were no high mountains, but woods
and forests with trees so full of large brown nuts.
The great bright eyes open wide as she tells of
how they used to go nut gathering, and little
heads look puzzled as they think of what a strange
place it must be, where there are no grand old
mountains and the little faces smile with glee
when they remember about the large barrel of
hickory nuts that grandma has so kindly pro-
mised them. The fire burns more briskly than
before, and the whole room is aglow with its
red light. All the while outside Jack Frost is
performing his night's work, nipping the fruit
and flowers, and painting each leaf with a hun-
dred different hues.
								BEATRICE.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect on the death of William
Knight, member of the 20th Ward Primary As-
sociation, who departed this life Sept. 1st, 1882,
with heart disease.
	As God in his wisdom has seen fit to call an-
other of his precious jewels, who has labored
faithfully in the performance of every duty, we,
as officers and members of the Primary Associa


tion, unanimously adopt the following resolu-
tions:
	We sincerely condole with his parents, brothers
and sisters, in their heavy bereavement, and we
tender them our heartfelt sympathy.
	May his many virtues be emulated by the
members of our Association, so that his noble ex-
ample may stimulate others to a life of virtue
and usefulness.
	Resolved, that we adopt these resolutions, as
a token of respect, that we present a copy of
these resolutions to his parents, and publish the
same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a
copy on our record.

The angels bore him robed in spotless white,
To their peaceful home of light.
								EMMA TOONE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED: In Brighton Ward, Aug. 12th. 1882, of
cholera infantum, after an illness of many
weeks, Minnie Presinda, the dearly beloved
child of George W. and Agnes Squires Hunting
ton; age one year and ten months, lacking three
days.
	Little Minnie was an unusually bright and
interesting child for her age, also very large;
but from her birth she was always afflicted with
sickness of some kind, so that she was only a
little sufferer during her brief sojourn in this
world of grief and affliction.
	The angels have now taken her home to the
celestial kingdom of our Lord, where there is no
more grief and pain, but all is joy and peace for-
ever.

'Twas not in anguish nor in wrath,
	The Reaper came that day,
Bright angels wished the earth,
	And bore the flower away;
A lovely bud so young and fair,
	Called hence by early doom.
"Just come to show how fair a flower,
	In Paradise would bloom."
									A. C.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

CASTLE DALE, EMERY CO.

	DEAR SISTER:—With great pleasure I com-
municate to your very interesting paper the
following items.
	On the 12th and 13th of August, 1882, we
were visited by two of the Twelve Apostles, E.
Snow and J. H. Smith, who held two days
meeting at this place, during which time they
recommended us to organize a Relief Society
in all the settlements of this Stake.
	The sisters of this Ward met to organize
on the 24th. August 25, elected the following
officers: Annie N. Larsen, President; Hannah
Seely and Harriet A. Willcox, Counselors;
Lucinda Jeffs, Secretary, Ellen Mitler, Treas-
urer. They were blessed and set apart under
the hands of Pres. C. G. Larsen and Counselor,
who also made some excellent remarks, and en-
couraged the sisters to be active to the duties
devolving upon them in their high and holy
calling, as Saints of the Most High. Pres.
Annie N. Larsen gave good instructions, all of
which the sisters feel to appreciate. We held
our first meeting on the seventh of September.
	Praying God to bless you in your labor of
love, I remain, with kindest regards, your sister
in the Gospel,		LUCINDA JEFFS, Sec'y.


The things that belong to men must be un-
derstood, in order that they may be loved.
The things that belong to God must be loved,
in order that they may be understood.—Pascal.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The scenes in Nauvoo during the summer of
1843 were of an exciting nature, and continued
on with but little cessation till the Prophet
and Patriarch were murdered, in a boasted
land of religious liberty, and their people
forced by mob-law to seek safety among sav-
ages.
	I remember the morning that Joseph and
family left the city to visit his sister-in-law
near Dixon, in Lee County, he called in as he
was passing, to bid us good bye, and the first
news that we heard was the unlawful arrest
made by Missourians, intending to drag him off
into that state, but their brutal conduct roused
the indignation of the people at Dixon, and by
a writ of habeas corpus, served by his friends,
he was placed under the arm of the law. The
news spread so rapidly, that a company of
horsemen, numbering 175, started the same
evening under the command of Generals' Wm.
Law and Charles C. Rich. The officers from
Missouri had laid their plans to kidnap Joseph
while on the journey, but his brethren guarded
him too closely, and they arrived home in safety
June 30th, where they were met on the out-
skirts by a great multitude of the Saints, who,
with Wm. Pitts, Brass Band, and loud cheers
and firing of artillery, escorted him to the
mansion.
	A meeting had been previously appointed at
5 o'clock the same day, in the grove west of
the Temple, where he delivered a speech, which
can be duly appreciated at this present time.
	"I meet you with a heart full of gratitude
to Almighty God, and I presume you all feel
the same. I hardly know how to express my
feelings. I feel as strong as a giant. I pulled
sticks with the men coming along, and I pulled
up with one hand the strongest man that could
be found. Then two men tried, but they could
not pull me up. And I continued to pull, men-
tally, until I pulled Missouri to Nauvoo.	*	*
*	It is not so much my object to tell my
afflictions, and trials, and troubles, as to speak
of the writ of habeas corpus, so that the minds
of all may be corrected. It has been asserted
by the great and wise men, lawyers, and others,
that our municipal powers and legal tribunals
are not to be sanctioned by the authorities of
the State; and accordingly they want to make
it lawful to drag away innocent men from their
families and friends, and have them put to
death by ungodly men for their religion. Re-
lative to our city charter, courts, rights of
habeas corpus, etc., I wish you to know and
publish that we have all power; and if any man
from this time forth says anything to the con-
trary, cast it into his teeth.
	"There is a secret in this. If there is not
power in our charter and courts, then there is
not power in the State of Illinois, nor in the
Congress or Constitution of the United States;
for the United States gives unto Illinois her
constitution or charter, and Illinois gave unto
Nauvoo her charter, ceding unto us our vested
rights, which she has no right nor power to
take from us. All the power there was in Il-
linois she gave to Nauvoo. I want you to
hear and learn, O, Israel, this day, what is for
the happiness and peace of this city and people.
If our enemies are determined to oppress us
and deprive us of our constitutional rights and
privileges as they have done, and if the author-
ities that are on the earth will not sustain us
in our rights, nor give us that protection which
the laws and constitution of the United States,
and of this State, guaranteed unto us; then we
will claim them from a higher power—from
heaven—yea, from God Almighty. Before I
will bear this unhallowed persecution any
longer, before I will be dragged away again,
among my enemies for trial, I will spill the last

[Column 2]
drop of blood in my veins. To bear it any
longer would be a sin.
	"It did my soul good to see your feelings
and love manifested towards me. I thank God
that I have the honor to lead so virtuous and
honest a people; to be your leader and lawyer,
as was Moses to the children of Israel. Hosan-
nah to Almighty God, who has delivered us
thus from out of the seven troubles. I com-
mend you to his grace, and may the blessings
of heaven rest upon you, in the name of Jesus
Christ. Amen."
	He was proven to be innocent and was once
more freed from the Missourians; but they
were determined not to give up, and pretended
that the authorities of Nauvoo had rescued a
prisoner from justice, but confident that his
friends would resist every attempt on their
part to arrest him, Gov. Reynolds, of Missouri,
applied to Gov. Ford, of Illinois, requesting
him to compel our people to deliver up the
Prophet, by calling out a force of militia for
this purpose, which request Gov. Ford po-
litely refused to grant.
	Our city was occasionally visited by Laman-
ites and a deputation of Pottawatamie chiefs
were in the city waiting to see Joseph when
he returned from Dixon, and as soon as consist-
ant after the trial was over he received them.
	After being assured that all present were
friends to Joseph, their orator arose and said:
(it being interpreted;) "We as a people have
long been distressed and oppressed. We have
been driven from our lands many times. We
have been wasted away by wars, until there
are but few of us left. The white man has
hated us and shed our blood, until it has ap-
peared as though there would soon be no In-
dian left. We have talked with the Great
Spirit, and the Great Spirit has talked with
us. We have asked the Great Spirit to save
us and let us live, and the Great Spirit has
told us that he has raised up a great Prophet
chief, and friend, who would do us great good
and tell us what to do; and the Great Spirit
has told us that you are the man (pointing to
the Prophet). We have now come a great way
to see you and hear your words, and to have you
tell us what to do. Our horses have become
poor traveling, and we are hungry. We will
now wait and hear your words."
	Joseph was considerably affected, so much
so that he wept. He said in return: "I have
heard your words. They are true! The Great
Spirit has told you the truth. I am your
friend and brother, and I wish to do you good.
Your fathers were once a great people. They
worshiped the Great Spirit. The Great Spirit
did them good. He was their friend, but they
left the Great Spirit and would not hear his
words nor keep them. The Great Spirit left
them, and they began to kill one another, and
they have been poor and afflicted until now.
	"The Great Spirit has given me a book, and
told me that you will soon be blessed again.
The Great Spirit will soon begin to talk with
you and your children."
	Raising the Book of Mormon, he said, "This
is the book which your fathers made. I wrote
upon it. This tells me what you will have to
do. I now want you to begin to pray to the
Great Spirit. I want you to make peace with
one another, and do not kill white men; it is
not good, but ask the Great Spirit for what you
want. And it will not be long before the Great
Spirit will bless you, and you will cultivate
the earth, and build good houses like white
men. We will give you something to eat and
to take home with you."
	The Prophet had an ox killed for them, and
some horses were also prepared for them.
	They remembered the kindness of Joseph
and his people, and when driven from our
homes they made us welcome upon their land,
where we were obliged to make our Winter
Quarters.


﻿We have certainly seen the fulfilment of
the Prophet's words concerning the red man,
cultivating the earth and building houses, as
well as other predictions, and are satisfied that
all will be fulfilled.
	The following is from an address delivered
by the Prophet, at the grove, on Sunday, July
8th, 1844.
	"The Saints can testify whether I am willing
to lay down my life for my brethren. If it has
been demonstrated that I have been willing to
die for a 'Mormon,' I am bold to declare that
before heaven, that I am just as ready to die in
defending the rights of a Presbyterian, a Bap-
tist, or a good man of any other denomination,
for the same principle which would trample
upon the rights of the Roman Catholics, or of
any other denomination that may be unpopular
and too weak to defend itself.
	"It is the love of liberty which inspires my
soul—civil and religious liberty to the whole
of the human race. Love of liberty was dif-
fused into my soul by my grandfathers, while
they dandled me on their knees. One of the
grand fundamental principles of 'Mormonism'
is to receive truth, let it come whence it may.
If I esteem mankind to be in error, shall I
bear them down? No. I will lift them up, and
in their own way too, if I cannot persuade
them my way is better; and I will not seek to
compel any man to believe as I do, only by
the force of reasoning, for truth will cut its
own way."	
	On the following Sabbath he preached, and
I presume that hundreds are still living who
will recollect these incidents.
	He said: "Let me be resurrected with the
Saints, whether I ascend to heaven, or descend
to hell; we will turn the devils out of doors and
make a heaven of it. Where this people are,
there is good society. What do we care where
we are, if the society be good ?"
	At another time he said, "I defy all the
world to destroy the work of God; and I
prophesy they never will have power to kill me
till my work is accomplished, and I am ready
to die. * * * I proclaim in the name of
the Lord God Almighty, that I will fellowship
nothing in the Church but virtue, integrity and
uprightness."
	That same spirit which governed the Pro-
phet and his people then, controls and keeps
them together to-day; and let our enemies con-
tinue to persecute and threaten as they may,
they cannot hinder freedom of thought, nor
prevent our making for ourselves a paradise on
earth, nor from securing our passport to heav-
en; no matter where our lot may be cast, we
can all make one for ourselves, and as Joseph
said, "defy all the world to help it" or "to des-
troy the work of God," or any of his servants
until their "work is accomplished," then they,
like Joseph, will he "ready to die."
	The Missourians, with all their cruelties and
whippings, could not crush out nor subdue that
spirit, nor make a "Mormon" feel that he was
conquered, and this was what made them so
angry.
	Our circumstances, since then, have reversed;
through the goodness of our Heavenly Father
we have gained a foot hold in these mountains,
and can now sit "under our own vine and fig-
tree;" and shall "hold the fort," God helping
us.
	To be Continued.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 71


[Column 1]
A SEPTEMBER WALK.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Come with me my friend, my congenial spirit,
let us take a walk this beautiful calm Septem-
ber day, with the canopy of heaven one eternal
blue bending over us, I cannot see the smallest
cloud. We will climb the hills, or as it is

[Column 2]
called "the Bench," from whence we can over-
look our beautiful city; the scenery is lovely,
in some parts grand. Fine houses and pretty
hills abound in the prospect. Let us take a
seat on Arsenal Hill, my beloved "Ensign
Peak" forming the back of our chair! The
City Hall is right before us, a large substantial
stone building, raised for time and eternity,
and for business and common sense purposes.
The Theatre then presents itself, and is a fine
and complete building. And now the grand
Temple looms up in the midst, and the heart of
every Latter-day Saint yearns for the comple-
tion of that unique mysterious House of God!
upon which rest great and mighty promises to
the true and faithful ones. On the same block
stands the small but elegant Assembly Hall,
with its ornamental turrets clustering round
the principal tower, on the summit of which is
the figure of an angel sounding the Gospel
Trumpet of Latter-day, and also denoting the
the cardinal points. This sacred block is sur-
rounded by a high wall—when the Temple is
finished a handsome iron palisading will enclose
it—with four massive gates of exquisite work-
manship, North, South, East and West. It
will be the largest and most unique Temple in
America; its foundation is laid for eternity,
and the superstructure is upon the same model.
Around, all around are those grand old moun-
tains. Well may we apply the Scriptural term
—"the everlasting Hills"—in their sublime and
eternal silence, clothed in their garments of
purple haze, or the pale green robe, and their
veil of mist, as the atmosphere, or time of day
throw around them. Here let us sit and medi-
tate for a short time. The silence of those
eternal mountains speaks to our spirit ear, and
to our spirit heart, and their voice and lan-
guage is angelic and inspirational, and also com-
forting; it whispers of the great beyond, to
which with noiseless tread, the hand of time
is leading the whole human family; it whispers
of the myriads that have lived, and revelled,
and enjoyed in the palaces of luxury, the gay
denizens of the world "clothed in robes of purple
and fine linen, and faring sumptuously every
day"—some with crowns upon their heads, and
the royal sceptre in their hands, and glitter-
ing with costly gems of the diamond, and the
pearl, the ruby and the emerald, the opal and
the turquoise, every eye watching to gratify
their wishes, even before they are expressed,
every knee ready to do them honors; their
lives so favored that it would seem a portion of
heaven had descended especially to bless these
petted children of humanity. Then reverse the
picture. Take the poor of the earth, who are
ever in the majority, see how they have toiled,
how they have indeed eaten their bread in the
sweat of their brow—from the raising of the
sun to the going down of the same; from their
days of childhood, even to old age, labor has
been their portion. And then the mourning,
the afflicted bearing life's burdens through the
three score years and ten—and perhaps ten
more. Where are all these myriads? Their
place knows them no more. These very
mountains may be the sepulchre of many
such! Yes, I know these mountians are tombs
of many of the human family, and perhaps
some called upon them to cover them and
hoped they would cover them for ever! for
they were wretched, and without hope, and
without faith; think of all the heterogenous
mass of human beings that have lived upon
this earth, and then been buried in its bosom.
Where, where are they? Speak ye grand old
mountains, that have beheld the ages come
and go, tell us the histories of those that are
now become as ye are: the dust of the earth.
The whole globe must be impregnated with
human dust; and that human dust has to be
resurrected. Think of it! fancy we hear that
voice saying, "Lazarus! come forth," and at the
sound of that Almighty voice, earth had no

[Column 3]
power to retain her prey. Is not this a type
of the whole? Yea, verily.
	You are silent, dear, do you think I am ser-
monizing? Oh! thank you. I am so glad
you feel as I do; it is these mountains that are
preaching to us, and blessed be God. Through
the teachings of his Spirit we have the faculty
to receive their impressions. "There are many
voices in the world, and none of them are with-
out signification"—some that instruct, some
that encourage, and some that fill the soul with
inexpressible poetry, for our finest feelings can-
not be written with the incompetent language
we now possess—and some fill us with silent
adoration—and we "worship in the infinite."
	Friend of my soul, you grasp my hand, and
gladly I return the pressure. We too must
pass away; surely we shall meet in the eterni-
ties. Affinity is an eternal, immutable princi-
ple, and the affinity between us is firm. Give
me your hand, let us descend the hill together,
and return to our beloved home, this day shall
be noted in the diary of our lives.
	Sept. 1882.


POETRY.

	Poetry the language of the soul, "the blossom
and fragrance of all human knowledge, human
thoughts, human passion, emotions, language."
It is something divine. It is the echo of the
the music of that heavenly choir which causes
the "strings in Being's lyre" to vibrate, and
respond in notes far from being in perfect uni-
son yet to our dull ears in sweetest cadence.
Nature overflows with spirit of poetry. The
air is full of it, and the waves cannot resist its
power but dance and sparkle in its light. The
starry heavens proclaim their unseen magnifi-
cence in innumerable voices, whose melodies
are all too perfect and delicate; for other than
the celestial beings. The stars are the poetry
of heaven. Greater desires and nobler pur-
poses are awakened, in man by its influence,
and, as Shelley says, "it redeems from decay
the visitations of the divinity in man."
	As the sun with its bright and cheerful face
dispels the darkness and fears of night, and
brings us into the fullness of glorious day, so
poetry scatters the foreboding clouds of trouble
and anger, and calms the turbulent spirit into
perfect peace. It has power to soothe our
minds to rest, after "the cares that infest the
day." We forget the toil and burden of life,
and the troubled waves of anger and resent-
ment are subdued, as if a voice had said, "peace,
be still."
	Nature's book lies open before us to read at 
will. All are not equally sensitive to its
teachings, nor does everyone understand the
language of nature; but one who cherishes a
love and reverence for the beautiful, and its
Creator, cannot fail to have those affections
continually renewed.
	Who can read Bryant without feeling that
he was an interpreter of nature? He held
"communion with her invisible forms," and "to
him she spoke a various language." The old
boughs always revealed some mystery to him,
and every tiny flower that lifted its drooping
head to be kissed by the passing breeze breathed
to him of love and tenderness. Truly he was
a poet of nature. While reading him all the
latent music of our souls is awakened, and we
are raised above the illusions of this life, and
catch glimpses of a nobler one.
	Poetry is an imitative art. Its aim is to give
pleasure by imitation. In this respect it agrees
with music, sculpture, and painting, but they
differ in the means they employ. Poetry uses
as its means, words arranged in metre, and
music employs melodious sounds, sculpture, im-
itates by reproducing beautiful forms, and
painting by reproducing delicate blendings, of
color. These sister arts have many qualities


in common, but in one poetry stands alone: it
is the only one that asserts, as words are its in-
struments Its aim is not illusion, but the ex-
citement of those emotions that would be
aroused if the scene were to be enacted.
Rhythm is a safeguard against reality, as well
as an additional pleasure. As Wordsworth
says, "There is the perception of similitude in
dissimilitude. Rhythm is the dissimiliar ele-
ment. Yet when reading the productions of
the greatest poets, our minds become so
absorbed, and our emotions so influenced and
and carried so far beyond our control, that it
seems but a short step to reality. Our imag-
inations become excited as was the poet's,
while giving to airy nothing a local habitation
and a name."
	It is doubtful whether even the greatest poets
can compose poetry at will; for it is not like
reason, a power to be exercised at pleasure,
but he must be so pervaded and engrosed by
the subjects that he writes as by inspiration
"Thoughts that breathe and words that burn."
If not thus, it will be labored and mechanical
rather than flowing and musical. Nor do we
receive the first conceptions of the poet. If he
were capable of reproducing them, it is im-
possible to imagine the result. The thoughts
that we read with greatest pleasure, are but
feeble shadows of the originals. When the
subject first presents itself to the mind, inspira-
tion flashes forth its resplendent light, impart-
ing richness and beauty, but when composition
begins, inspiration wanes, and the force and
grandeur of the beginning generally declines
towards the end.
	Poetry and music are so closely related, that
when speaking of one the other is inferred.
They are "the parents of action good and
brave."

	"Music resembles poetry: in each
	Are nameless graces, which no methods teach,
	And which a master's hand alone can reach."

	What a beautiful illustration of language is
music, but when combined with her sister art,
it becomes eloquence highly ornamented.
Music like poetry, is "a sphere descended
maid." In all nature her presence is recog-
nized, in the sighing of a reed, in the gushing
rill, in the breeze as it softly whispers in the 
trees, making the little leaves dance merrily to
its enlivening airs. Nor is monotony found
anywhere in nature; no two leaves are alike,
no two flowers, no two faces; everything has
its distinguishing feature. Fresh evidences
are ever being found of the Creator's laws of
variety.
	The power of music is irresistible. It holds
sway over the passions, allaying anger and
strife. It animates warriors to brave and
courageous deeds. In trouble and sorrow
music is a great friend, and "wisdom's aid."
	Association unites with music in her efforts
to influence the emotions.

	"It makes a glad remembrance of our youth,
	Calls back past joys, and warms us into transport."

	At close of day how pleasant to listen to the 
notes of village bells, as they burst forth loud
and clear, and then linger and die in the dis-
tance.

	"Some chord in unison with what we hear
	Is touched within us, and the heart replies."

	The character of a nation is shown by its
music. Confucius said, "Would'st thou know
if a people be well governed, if its manners be
good or bad, examine the music it practises."
The poetry of a nation expresses its sentiments.
	May America's poetry ever be of the divinest
and best, and her music the most melodious,
and so continue to live, that it can be said,
Her history is her grandest poem.
		HATTIE F. CLOUGH.
	Cohoes, N. Y.


72	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE laws of Wisconsin do not allow murder-
ers, lunatics, nor women to vote. This is a
nice category in which to enumerate wives,
daughters, and mothers.—Evening Wisconsin.

	A NATIONAL society for woman suffrage has
been established in Paris. It will be indepen-
dent of any political or religious party. The
office is at 34, Rue de Chazelle (parc Monc-
eau), Paris. The minimum subscription is
three francs. There will also be honorary as-
sociates, who are not expected to subscribe.
Th[-] funds will be divided into three sections:
the expenses of the office and reports; the ex-
penses of issuing publications; and the fund for
meetings. Any other questions than that of
obtaining the suffrage for women will be ex-
cluded from the meetings and publications of
the society.—Ex.

	QUEEN ELIZABETH of Roumania, known in
literature under the pseudonym of Carmen
Sylva, has been elected a member of the Ac-
ademy of Science at Bucharest, and will be
formally installed next November. She is the
first lady to whom this compliment has been
paid. She is the daughter of Prince Herman
of Weid, and is about thirty years old. From
her early youth she has shown much taste and
talent for poetry. Her first literary work con-
sisted of poetry, which appeared in many
German reviews. Two years ago she published
a poem in German, containing four stories,
called "The Storms." It is for this work that
the Bucharest Academy has elected her a mem-
ber. She has also written a collection of phil-
osophical thoughts, which appeared in the
Nouvelle Revue; an epic called "Aschaver," and
a quantity of German translation of Rou-
manian poems, among others, those of Wassali
Alexandri, the best known of contemporary
Roumanian lyrists. The Queen is greatly be-
loved in Roumania, and it is an excellent
augury for the welfare of the young Danubian
kingdom that its sovereign assists in its literary
development—Womam's Journal.


CHILD'S ESSAY.

WEST JORDAN PRIMARY.

	My Dear Little Brothers and Sisters. As I
am appointed to write an essay I will try and
do the best I can, but I don’t think I can write
any thing that will be interesting to any of
you. I like to come to meeting and come in
time. I am willing to do any thing I am
called upon to do. We should be kind to those
placed over us, and listen to good counsel. We
are taught when we come to meeting, we should
be obedient to our parents and respectful to all
old people. We should pray night and morn-
iny, and in the day-time as well, for when any
of our little brothers or sisters are sick, we
should pray in our hearts, and have faith that
they will get well, and they will get well; inas-
much as we ask sincerely. I think if we would
attend meeting regularly we would feel a great
deal better than if we do not. My little broth-
ers and sisters, it we could only realize the
blessings that we are surrounded with. Kind
parents and teachers to instruct us. Let us
come to meeting and attend regularly and come
in time. Let us show by our actions that we
will do better in the future than we have done
in the past. Please excuse all mistakes, for
this is my first attempt; I will now close this
essay, wishing to do better the next time.
	Your Sister in the Primary Association.
		REBECCA GOFF.
July 8, 1882.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.
BY special request of MRS. E. R. SNOW SMITH,
Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence her class in Obstetrics,'November 1st,
1882, in her office over Godbe & Pitts' Drug Store. Lec-
tures, three per week for five months. During the course,
Drs. Anderson and Benedict will each deliver six prac-
tical lectures. Fee for course, $30.00; former stu-
dents, $20.00; books (3), $12.00, Manikin, skeleton, in-
struments and plates for illustration. Please send or-
ders for books early, as they have to be ordered from
the East.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	 Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns, 	Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns, 	Washboards,
Linseys, 	Cassimers, 		Washboards,
Jeans, 		Tweeds, 		Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1882.	No. 10.


A SUMMER REVERIE.

Through the green fields alone I love to stray,
	Musing and gazing on the landscape fair;
The fragrant freshness of the new-mown hay
	Is wafted daintily upon the air;
The breath of summer flow'rs refreshes me,
	And from restraint my tired heart is free.

Field-lilles speak to me such tender things,
	I love to listen to their silent pleading,
For to my mind the Savior's words it brings,
	And in obedience his precepts heeding
Consider! yea, how beautiful they grow,
	And yet they toil not, nature makes them so.

The flow'rs associate our minds with love,
	And waken fond remembrances most dear,
They lead the human soul to look above,
	And make us feel that surely God is near,
To guide our feet throughout our length of days,
	Yea, if we trust Him, into pleasant ways.

Oh, pleasant paths, where faith and hope combine,
	To teach us lessons, all who live should learn, 
To trust in God, and say "his will, not mine,"
	And realize 'tis only what we earn,
Will give us entrance into mansions fair,
	Which Scripture tells us Jesus will prepare.

And if our way is sometimes thickly strewn
	With thorns that pierce, and rocks as sharp as steel,
And we must tread this dang'rous path alone,
	While only One above knows what we feel,
Then will He not draw near to own and bless,
	The suff'ring soul who toils in loneliness?

These were my thoughts, and many more indeed,
	As ling'ring in the fields one summer day,
I felt within my heart an urgent need,
	Of loving help to aid me on my way;For I was weary with the toil and strife,
	Of daily contact in the walks of life.

Communing thus I sought some recognition,
	In nature, or through "nature's heart" to me,
Some whisper soft, or gentle intuition,
	That would express a loving sympathy.An inspiration filling me with zeal,
	Some knowledge of my future to reveal.

Ah, we poor human beings know not yet,
	One vital principle of a creation,
On ev'ry side with problems we are met,
	We may not solve, while here in this probation;
These are the hidden mysteries of heaven,
	That only to the faithful will be given.

But if an exaltation we shall gain, 
	Through our obedience to the laws of God,
Then we shall find it was not all in vain
	To walk by faith—or feel the chast'ning rod,
For hidden things to such will be reveal'd,
	Which erst for ages past had been concealed.	EMILE.

Sept. 23, 1882.


[Column 1]

WINTER HOUSE PLANTS.

	Who is there among the lady readers of the
EXPONENT, that does not love house plants,
and their culture? If any, they need not trou-
ble to read farther, as anything I have to say
will scarcely interest them.
	But to those who are fond of these trouble-
some pets, perhaps I can suggest with profit to
them, something learned from actual exper-
ience, and not from books on floriculture.
	What is there more bright or beautiful, in
the dull days of winter, or that makes a room
look cosier, than a glowing grate fire, and win-
dows full of blooming plants. I say blooming
because I suppose there are some like myself
(and for them I write) who have gone through
the seige so trying to amateur florists, i. e. of
tending with great care, plants that stubbornly

[Column 2]

refused to bloom, except when the summer
garden was lavish with blossoms, and we cared
bu little whether they favored us or not.
	Now I am aware I ought to have given my
information at least a month ago, but remem-
bering the old adage "better late than never,"
concluded to give it now, for the benefit of
those like myself, a little behindhand. I take
it for granted you all like free bloomers, and
will suggest some that are very easy to culti-
vate, and that richly repay a little care.
	The different varieties of flowering begonias,
the delicate beauty of whose foliage combined
with their graceful flowers, and free blooming
qualities, are very desirable for winter window
culture. The variety of leaf and blossom is
truly beautiful. I have one with lovely bronze
green, pointed leaves, and red translucent stems,
that is one mass of pale pink blossoms two
thirds of the year. Another dark green
rounded leaves and pure white blossoms; still
another, light green leaves and coral red flowers,
and my list is very incomplete.
	They require a temperature of about 70
degrees. The soil I use is moderately rich and
mixed with sufficient fine sand for good drain-
age. Under these conditions my plants favor
me with masses of bloom most of the time,
and although I called them in the beginning
of this article troublesome pets, their care is
one of my chief pleasures.
	Do not think dear reader, that I have no
other plants to offer, of easy cultivation. O!
no. The dear old Calla is, and well deserves
to be, a favorite of mine, for it sends forth its
lovely waxen flower, with but little attention,
save water in profusion, and warmth. I call
it my 'angel flower,' it is so pure and beauti-
ful. And then there are the old stand bys,
the geraniums in all colors, double and single.
Pot them early in the fall in six or eight
inch pots, cut them down pretty well, give
good soil and a moderate allowance of water,
and they will repay you with numbers of blos-
soms all Winter.
	For hanging baskets, I have German ivy
and kenilworth, maderia and maurandya vines,
and ivy geraniums, with the lobelia plant
which is so pretty because of its mass of blue
flowers. And don't forget to try the begonia
as a basket plant. I assure you, they are a
lovely addition to our little hanging gardens.
	In conclusion, water your plants when they
need it. Don't go round every morning with
your watering pot, giving to each and all im-
partially. With plants you have to be partial;
some need twice as much as others, and I have
learned by experience, that a quantity suffi-
cient for one, is death to another. A good
rule to go by, (though there are exceptions,)
is to give more water to thin leaved plants,
than to thick leaved ones.
	You will soon see when you give too much,
as the foliage will drop.
	I have mentioned only a few flowers, but
they are all easily cultivated, and I hope if
tried, will give as much pleasure to you as they
have to me, I think you cannot fail to have
success, if you love flowers as well as I do.
	MYOSOTIS.


HOMESPUN TALKS WITH HERSELF.

	Homespun and I have a very odd habit of
talking when in doubt on any subject; Sarah
Ann taking one side and I the other. Our
thoughts drifted the other night on to the shore


of Mutual Improvement Associations, and we
discussed the subject, very privately, for a long
while. Then we carried our ideas to the head
and front of the M. I. A's, and still we wern't,
not quite satisfied, and so we detirmined to
put some questions to the wise EXPONENT.
	Sarah Ann says she don't care much about
going to the M. I. meetings because she dosen't
appreciate the monotonous exercise from the
Book of Mormon or Bible, the very tame re-
marks that follow, and the little reading from
some book or paper. Now I am heartily
ashamed of Sarah Ann, but I can't quite force
her to go. We were informed that we were
not spiritual minded enough. But, what are
we to do? We like to hear a good sermon, we
like to read our own Bible and Book of Mor-
mon in the spirit thereof, but we can't quite
bring ourselves to be "spiritual-minded."
	Sarah Ann says she knows lots of young
people who are good, moral, honest, hardwork-
ing perhaps, but they arn't spiritual-minded.
They'd like real well to go to some society
where they could improve their minds, but
they lack the spirituality to want to preach
(they call it preach) and listen to dreary read-
ings from books. Now she says, what's to be
done with this mass of young people, who are
otherwise good Mormons?
	Sarah Ann goes on to say that she don't
think the young people should be chided too
much for their love of dress. She thinks the
older ones ought to devise means to fill up
their minds with other thoughts, and reason
them out of their folly, not drive them into it.
Can we not have some kind of societies where
we may study a little of everything? Physi-
cal Geography, Mental Philosophy, Chemistry,
Civil Government, etc. etc? Then we will
gladly study also the Bible and other Church
works.
	I told Sarah Ann that these things were
taught in the High Schools of the Territory.
Ah, yes, she replied, but the majority of our
young people can't get "the ghost of a chance"
to attend them. Still they want to know
something, and, where is the place to be helped
with these studies? Our young people ought
to be treated in the same manner as a gentle-
man told me a cow was taught to eat onions.
A handful of apples was given and one onion
thrown in. Can not we who are so unfortun-
ate as to be devoid of spirituality, have our
onions with lots of apples? What is the spirit
and genius of the M. I. A.?	S. A. Homespun.


WOMEN AND WHAT THEY ARE DOING.—
Mrs. M. M. Ricker, who was recently admitted
to the bar of the District of Columbia "passed,"
says a United States Senator, "the best exami-
nation among seventeen applicants, all men
but herself. She was found to be particularly
well versed in the law of real property, a
branch supposed to be beyond the reach of
female intellect."
	There are at the present moment nearly four
hundred female physicians in active practice
in twenty-six cities of the United States, the ma-
jority of them being settled in New York, Mas-
sachusetts, and Pennsylvania. These figures
show a very rapid increase in the number of
women practicing medicine in the United
States. A few years ago a lady doctor was
more or less a rara avis; now there is scarcely
a village in any one of the Eastern States
which can not boast of at least one such prac-
titioner.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	One member of our household I have omitted
to mention, a young lady (a native of the East
Indies) who obeyed the Gospel in England, and
emigrated with a company of Saints to Nauvoo.
Her mother was an East India lady of rank
and her father a distinguished English officer.
Her name was Eliza Monroe—an only child,
who had been accustomed to having wealth
and slaves at her command, until after she had
reached her teens, and her mother was taken
from her by death, when her father returned
to England, taking her with him, and in a few
years married a proud English lady. Eliza
was what might be called one of nature's noble
ladies; she was a brunette, slender and full of
grace and refinement, with none of the proud
and haughty airs of an aristocrat, which is
assumed by so many whom dame Fortune has
raised from the lower ranks, as if afraid of not
being recognized as such, but which is a posi-
tive and unmistakable sign of ignorance and
arrogance. She was never happy with her step-
mother; their natures and customs were so op-
posite to each other; there was no sympathy
between them. She was constantly criticised
as well as reproved for being too condescending
to inferiors, and too familiar with the servants,
because she would go among them and treat
them with courtesy, as she had been accus-
tomed to do in her native land. When her
cars were saluted with the everlasting Gospel
she received and obeyed its mandates, and she
had no misgivings nor regrets at leaving her
home in England, and following the Saints to
America. She was poor and penniless, and
had no knowledge of any kind of housework,
and feeling her inability to pay her way, she
was unwilling to sit idle, and would ask the
privilege of helping about the house; but her
help was only a hindrance, and father seeing
how she felt, bethought himself of his History,
which he asked her to copy. This pleased
her, as she could write a fine hand, besides it
being an agreeable employment. He admired
her about the house, because she was so quiet
and lady-like, and spoke of it repeatedly—that
he would not know of her presence if he did
not see her, a compliment seldom paid to a
lady. I still have a neck-ribbon which she
presented me, made by the natives, from the
bark of a tree in India which they call a silk
tree. After a little time she took a school of
young ladies, near my own age and taught
during the summer; when she was unfortunate
enough to marry a shiftless young man, who
came from England, and was incapable of pro-
viding for her. Soon after he denied the faith,
and in the time of our trouble, left for St.
Louis. While stopping at Winter Quarters,
some of the brethren being sent down to St.
Louis to purchase goods, she wrote and sent
by them some little tokens of remembrance to
my mother and myself. She was still strong
in the faith but in poor circumstances.
	Among a package of my father's papers lately
found, was the following letter of commenda-
tion, received from the Prophet, and signed by
his hand June 1843, which will explain the
object of his mission East.
	"To all Saints and honorable men of the
earth greeting:
	"Dear brethren and friends: I, Joseph Smith
a servant of the Lord, and Trustee-in-trust for
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, do hereby certify that the Bearer Here-
of, Heber C. Kimball, an Elder and one of the
Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, has deposited with
me his bond and security, to my full satisfac-
tion, according to the resolution of the Confer-
ence, held in this city, on the 6th day of April
last. He therefore is recommended to all Saints

[Column 2]

and honorable people, as a legal agent to col-
lect funds for the purpose of building the Nau-
voo House, and Temple of the Lord, confident
that he will honor this high trust, as well as
ardently fulfil his commission as a messenger of
peace and salvation, as one of the Lord's noble-
men—I can fervently say, may the Lord clear
his way before him, and bless him, and bless
those that obey his teachings, whenever there
are ears to hear and hearts to feel.
	He is in the language of the Hebrews
(Haura-ang-yeesh-rau-ale). The friend of
Israel, and worthy to be received and enter-
tained as a man of God: Yea, he has, as had
the ancient Apostles (0 logos o kalos) the good
word, even the good word that leadeth unto
eternal life. Laus Deus. Praise God. Where-
fore, brethren! and friends, while you have the
assurance of the integrity, fidelity, and ability of
this servant of the living God, trusting that
your hearts and energies will be enlivened, and
deeply engaged in the building of these houses,
directed by revelation for the salvation of all
Saints: and that you will not rest where you
are, until all things are prepared before you,
and you are gathered home with the rest of
Israel, to meet your God,—I feel strong in the
belief, and have a growing expectation, that
you will not withhold any means in your power
that can be used to accomplish this glorious
work. Finally as one that greatly desires the
salvation of man, let me remind you all to
strive with a godly zeal, for virtue, holiness
and the commandments of the Lord. Be
good, be wise, be just, be liberal; and above all
be charitable always, abounding in good
works. And may health, peace and the love
of God our Father, and the grace of Jesus
Christ our Lord be and abide with you all, is
the sincere prayer of your devoted brother and
friend in the everlasting Gospel,
						Joseph Smith."
	City of Nauvoo, June 1st. 1843.

	(The Hebrew I have omitted giving only the
interpretation.)

	The following I gathered from my father's
journal:
	"Pittsburg, July 28th, 1843. Last evening
Elders B. Young, George A. Smith and W.
Woodruff, came to our meeting as Elder Page
was preaching. I must say that I was glad to
see them, as Elder O. Pratt and myself have
been in this city nearly four weeks waiting for
them. I thank my Father in heaven that I
have the privilege of hearing from my dear
brothers and sisters and family; received three
letters, one from my wife, one from my son
William, and one from Helen. How precious
to hear from my dear family whom I love and
prize above all things here on earth, but I
leave all for Christ's sake and the Gospel."
	During the summer we had (as was usual)
much sickness in the city. My mother and
babe, and all the rest of us were sick in the
early part of the season. From a letter re-
ceived from my father, dated Philadielphia
Aug. 13th, I gather the following.
	"On the 10th I went to the Post Office, and
found a letter, which gave me joy mixed with
sorrow, because you have been sick, and you
are so poor; O that I had you with me, to soothe
your task and make your burdens lighter.
Your letter was written on the 19th of July.
You said that little babe had been sick and all
the rest of the children; I am sorry, but hope
they are all well now. O, my God, bless them
and let their lives be precious in thy sight, is
my prayer all the day long; and my desire is
to make all happy and to have a pure heart
before God, but I am frail and a poor weak
man, and I need your prayers. I know that I
have them and you are all remembered when I
bow before my Father. * * * *"
	To be Continued.


LETTER FROM FAIRVIEW.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: On the 16th inst. we were
favored with a visit from our esteemed Sister,
E. R. S. Smith, accompanied by our energetic
President, Mary A. P. Hyde, of this Stake,
and Sister Morrison of Mt. Pleasant, who, after
attending our Relief Society Conference at Mt.
Pleasant on the 15th, came to Fairview and
held a meeting at 2 p. m. on the 16th.
Although the weather was cold and stormy the
house was well filled. Sister Smith was very
earnest in her endeavors to impress upon the
sisters, and especially the young, the necessity
of learning for themselves of the truth of this
work, and to be true to their covenants and
their God. She also bore a faithful testimony
to the truth of celestial marriage, as revealed
to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Sisters Hyde and Morrison also bore their
testimony to the same. Said they had been
placed in circumstances to know whereof they
spoke. Said they would not be willing to live
their lives over outside of that relation, for
they knew it tended to elevate and not degrade
women.
	Sunday morning it was raining and very
cold, but the sisters, accompanied with Bishop
Tucker and wife, President Pritchett and
others, wended their way to Thistle Valley,
where they held meeting and completed the
organization of the Relief Society and Primary,
and encouraged the sisters to be diligent in
holding their meetings and attending to their
several duties.
	They returned in the evening, and at 9
o'clock the next morning met with the Primary
of this place. Sister Smith instructed the
children in their duties and gave them much
motherly counsel which I am sure is apprecia-
ted, for it always makes the children's eyes
brighten to hear that Sister E. R. S. Smith is
coming to see them. Altogether we had a
time of rejoicing, and we hope now that the
railroad runs through our valley, that we will
be favored with visits from our sisters more
frequently.			LOIS A. WILSON,
				Corresponding Secretary.


OHIO HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHIL-
DREN.—This charitable institution, which has
recently solicited so much public attention as
well as general contributions, has met with
such success as its benevolent character de-
serves. Almost from the day of its opening its
beds have been filled, and many applicants
have been refused admission for want of room.
One feels on entering its pretty carpeted hall
as if it were the entrance to a quiet, refined
home, and this impression is strengthened in
making a tour of the house. Its private rooms
are charmingly furnished, and ornaments, such
as ladies know so well how to arrange, are scat-
tered liberally through the house. Many of
the physicians of the city have manifested a
warm interest, and one has now a patient in a
private room. The gratitude of those who
have shared its privileges speaks well for its
usefulness. This institution is designed to be a
benefit to women. While its prime purpose is
to relieve the afflictions of women and children,
its helpfulness is also reflective. It increases
the facilities for practical work in the study of
medicine, for those women of the city who may
wish to adopt the profession. Since its doors
were opened, it has cordially invited students
to the clinics, and given recent graduates work
in its dispensary. The attending physicians, at
present, are the two ladies who have so long
and earnestly labored for its establishment,
Dr. Ellen M. Kirk and Dr. Martha M. Howells.
The resident physician is Dr. Sarah Bebout, a
recent graduate of Pulte College.—Selected.
								H. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"WHAT'S IN A NAME?"

Fragrant as air from Eden,
	Mingled with wild-birds' lay
The name that you have given,
	Your new-born babe to-day,
It comes with mem'ries laden,
	Stirring deep founts of thought,
With magic light revealing,
	The changes time hath wrought.

As notes from some chance singer,
	Recalleth sweetest rhyme
Of dear old songs so tender,
	Sang oft in days 'Lang Syne,'
When life was free and gladsome,
	With only April tears,
When hope's bright rainbow colors,
	Shone over future years—

So that charmed name just spoken,
	Turns back time's tidal waves,
Rich treasure-troves are opened
	From out its hidden graves.
Like *rock of feeble olden,
	Concealing boundless store,
Enchanted but to open,
	To words of magic lore.

Without it vain the effort,
	An entrance to secure,
Name it! lo! quickly swingeth,
	Outward the pond'rous door.
Thanks to the power potent,
	That doth this charm impart,
Ne'er may it be withholden,
	From one poor human heart.

		L. M. HEWLINGS.
*See story of Forty Thieves.


[Column 1]

DEATH.

	When disease stalks through the land and
fastens its cold grip on our friends, we start at
every sound, and see in every shadow a mes-
senger for some loved one. We are constantly
meeting death in its ever varying forms.
	When Spring approaches, vegetation starts
to life; earth puts on her beautiful garments of
green, 'broidered by the matchless needle of
the goddess of nature; the pearly chasms are
turned to murmuring streams; the leafless trees
become pyramids of flowers, the gay winged
choristers chant their merry lays, all nature
looks lovely and man is content. A few short
months and the chilling blast of Autumn's
frost passes over nature; the leaves fall one by
one, the trunk with its branches only remain;
the myriads of sweet scented beauties which
bedecked our gardens are faded and gone, and
the bright hues of nature are changed to the
sombre one of death.
	Again the babe, the human bud of nature
is sweetly sleeping on its mother's breast;
when the form of the grim monster slowly
passes by, one breath from its cold lips and the
little spirit leaves the frail tenement of clay.
The sound of its innocent prattle and of the
pattering of the tiny feet are hushed. We
miss the soft touch of the dimpled arms, the
loving look from the pretty blue eyes. The
breast that has pillowed its flaxen curls is
filled with anguish unspeakable.
	There is another, not a bud, for the dew of
heaven has watered it and the bright rays of
the sun have warmed it into life and the
atmosphere of home is filled with the perfume
of its loveliness. We watch with fond though
aching hearts, hoping, yet fearing. We antici-
pate a bright future, days of usefulness and
honor; the blessings of motherhood and old
age for our beautiful flower. A shadow looms
in the distance; the chilling breeze of death is
near, its icy touch is on our blooming rose;
the dear form droops, the peach bloom disap-
pears from the cheeks, the love light from the
bright eyes; a sad tender look, a gentle sigh,
like the murmer of the leaves, and all is over.
	Again death is seen approaching; the blood
curdles in our veins, with outstretched arms
and quivering frame we gasp, who next? In

[Column 2]

the agony of our soul we cry "take me! take
me!" but the skeleton, with a ghastly smile
cruelly cries "wait!" With bursting heart we
turn to see who next. Ha! it is the sturdy
oak. The husband, who has so tenderly
guided our footsteps through life's ragged
path, turns pale, the proud step falters; the
iron will gives way; reason totters on her
throne; the master mind which has meted out
justice to all is shaken; the dear form wastes
away day by day, a few convulsive throes and
and we are left alone. Oh, the nights of dark-
ness that come over our waking dreams.
Anon we sleep, the soothing handmaid of
nature bends over us; by her mesmeric touch
the strained nerves are soothed.
	The scene changes. A beautiful river
appears, floating on its surface a frail bark
Its lonely occupant, a man—a noble, Godlike
man. What strange sensations come over us.
Who is the noble being? See! that monstrous
wave will dash the frail bark to pieces. Ha!
it is lost. No! the wave has passed, it is safe;
onward it flies, scarcely seeming to touch the
foaming waves. We gaze breathlessly on the
sight; the haven is reached; with a light step
he leaps on the shore.
	A noble mansion is seen in the distance;
soft strains of "Beautiful gates ajar" are heard
from angel voices; two lovely forms emerge
from those gates; the light of exaltation beams
from their eyes. With quickened step the
stranger hastens to meet them; how joyous
they meet, with what rapture they embrace
each other. List! they speak. Father, daugh-
ters. Oh my soul! I recognize them; my
husband, my children! happy trio! Rest, poor
beating heart! It is sorrow to thee, but joy to
them; a death here, a birth there.
	As the last strains of music die, a still, small
voice whispers, be comforted broken one; be
faithful, watch and wait! A few short years
and you, with them, will inherit eternal life.
The bitter pang is past. With tearful eyes,
yet beating, hopeful heart we whisper, Father,
"thy will be done."	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


[Column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S STATUS.

	In the world of renown man predominates,
but he does not excel. There are more great
men than women, but no greater.
	Woman's place in literature is granted. None
dispute her right. In the professions of the age
—medicine, law, science, art &c., she is rapidly
progressing, and ere long will count her number
equally with man. 'Tis owing more to the great
restraint that has been put on her, that she has
kept from balancing her mind in the great
weight—the world of fame—with man for so
many years; but now as the chains gradually
loosen she gains her place step by step, and be-
fore the dawning of another century her place
will be universally recognized.
	There is one place where man has ever stood
foremost, and few are the women who have sought
renown in that way, war. But even here man
is not entirely alone. Hundreds of thousands of
men have endangered their lives in the cause of
their country, but as many women have felt the
same throbs of patriotism and have endured un-
told hardships for the same cause. And who
can say which is the harder, to risk one's own
life in battle for an honorable cause, or to suffer
the lives of those we love far dearer than our-
selves to be in danger. Any true woman would
rather suffer than see others in agony, and there-
fore her endurance for country's sake is noble in-
deed. There are some women who risk not only
their own lives, but break the chains of rigid
custom and show themselves foremost in the
ranks of armed men, like the maid of Saragossa,
or in the hospitals like the heroine of Scutari.
There are hundreds as intrepid as either of these

[Column 2]

and which is the braver or nobler? It would be
hard to tell; for to meet the cannon's mouth in
open battle calls for no greater courage than to
meet disease among the dead and dying, and to
witness the mortal anguish and suffering of our
fellow men. Have those women done aught
against the sanctity of their sex to a nobler plat-
form and a higher sphere. Who would utter a
word against Florence Nightingale, the noble,
beautiful heroine of the Crimea. How she toiled
in the hospitals in that foreign land, and gave
hope and life to thousands of men. She was
fairly idolized by the troops; one of the soldiers
said, "She would speak to one and to another,
and nod and smile to as many more; but she
couldn't do it to all, you know; we lay there by
hundreds; but we could kiss her shadow as it
fell, and lay our heads on the pillow again con-
tended." She always was cheerful and kind,
and brought a pure and sacred influence with
her. Another soldier was known to say, "Be-
fore she came, there was cursin and swearin, and
after that it was as holy as a church." No gen-
eral ever did a nobler deed than she. The most
one can do, is the sacrifice of a life, and the
nobler and better the life, the greater must be
the sacrifice. What wonder that she received
homage from the "noble of the land." 'Twere
little reward for the Sultan of Turkey, or the
Queen of England to present her with jewels,
or for the English nation to raise her a fortune to
onable her to instruct others in the dinnie art o
alleviating pain. She returned to England, which
a short time before she had left in perfect health,
an invalid for life; but she was never known to
regret that she had made the sacrifice of her
own health, for she felt the reward of renewing
the health of hundreds of others.
	Perhaps her name and deeds were an incen-
tive to the women of America, for while she
overcome the opposition of old surgeons and
obstinate seargents in the Crimea, she also
smoothed the path of American women on the
banks of the Mississippi and Potomac, where
deeds of sacrifice and bravery abounded to a
greater extent than was ever known before.
	American mothers sent forth their sons to
face the cannons of war or to languish in horrible
prisons. Was there no sacrifice there? Think
of the bleeding of a mother's heart as she parts,
perhaps forever, with her son who was her pride
and glory. Think of the wives and daughters
who parted from husband, father, son and
brother; with the thought—this may be our last
good bye. These wives, mothers, and sisters sat
not idly at home, bemoaning their fate, but en-
couraged their loved ones in fighting for their
country, prayed for them and worked for them.
	Societies were efficiently organized where
the women sewed and knit, and made deli-
cacies for the sick and collected stores and
money to keep the treasury of the Sanitary
Commission full. Some worked thus, but many
went right to the fight, and labored with the
wounded and the sick. Volumes might be
written about the noble women of the Rebellion,
but the subject is almost too vast, for pen to try
to portray. In the hearts of the soldiers these
women have a record and a monument, if in no
other place. The women of the north and of
the south, both labored hard in the hospitals and
some on the battlefield. It would scarcely be
just to make mention of one, there were so many
equally great. No thought of romance or glory
inspired these women but a pure love for coun-
try, liberty and humanity.
	As men enlisted as soldiers, women enlisted as
nurses, and to both, not to one, was the suc-
cessful issue due. In truth if glory were to be
divided would it not fall more to the ones who
saved lives than to the ones who risked them?
	ANNIE.


76	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	[--]ponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt	Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	OCTOBER 15, 1882.


[Column 1]
CONVENTION N. W. S. A. AT OMAHA.

	The first meeting was a preliminary one held
in the parlors of Boyd's Opera House, at 2 o'clock
p. m., Tuesday, Sept. 26. Ch. Ex. Com. May
Wright Sewall, presiding. It was decided at
this meeting what committees should be ap-
pointed and of whom they should consist.
	1st.	Committee on Credentials.
	2d.	Committee on Resolutions.
	3d.	Committee on Nominations.
	These several committees included one at least
from every State or Territory represented at the
Convention. The ladies talked over the neces-
sity of having a regular medium of communi-
cation through the press, which the Association
had not had since the National Citizen of Syra-
case, N. Y., was discontinued; After some
amiable discussion of the matter, a vote was
taken to make "Our Herald" the medium of
such communication. This is already a very
popular paper, and will no doubt more than dou-
ble its circulation now that it is to contain
complete details of the work of the N. W. S. A.
Its editor, Mrs. Helen M. Gougar is a sharp,
shrewd, bright, intelligent lady, and on the
platform witty, brilliant and sparkling, holding
the undivided attention of her audiences, and
they never tire of her interesting themes and
apt illustrations. She speaks much in the open
air, which is rather uncommon for a lady, and
has by this means accomplished a good work in
Nebraska, during the present campaign, taking
in another class of men and winning many over
to the cause, who otherwise would never have
heard woman's political position explained,
or ever given it a thought. There is no doubt
but she will make the paper very useful in the
cause of woman's suffrage as indeed it has been
heretofore, though perhaps not so exclusively.
	Tuesday evening, half past 7, the Convention
was formally opened, with prayer by the Rev.
Mr. Sherrill, Congregational minister at Omaha.
Then followed a written address of welcome by
the Hon. A. J. Poppleton of that city, but un-
fortunately for him the light was not sufficient
to admit of his reading it, but it was published
in the morning paper. Mrs. May Wright Sewall
of Indiana, Mrs. Helen M. Gougar and Miss
Anthony were the speakers and everybody was
delighted; the large opera house was crowded
and the applause occasionaly was immense.
	Wednesday morning, half past ten, was an
executive session, Mrs. Sewall, Chairman, Miss
Pearl Adams was chosen Secretary, and almost
the entire time was devoted to reports from the
different localities in Nebraska. Some other busi-
ness was transacted and meeting adjourned un-
til 2 p.m., at that time the house was full in
every part, and the audience most attentive.
Miss Susan B. Anthony presiding. Miss An-
thony is looked up to by the suffrage ladies, as
a reverend mother, and she has a kind word
and apt advice for each one; she is a mother in
the largest sense of the word; she has devoted

[Column 2]
her life, or more than thirty years of it to a
principle, to the work of elevation for women,
and she is receiving at this late day some of the
homage and appreciation, which she so richly
deserves and has so justly merited. Addresses
were delivered, one of which we publish in full
in this issue and some others will be in our next
issue. There was another regular session of the
Convention in the evening, and Matilda Hind-
man of Pa., was the first speaker.
	Executive session. Thursday morning was
devoted to reports from the several States and
Territories, that were there represented; they
were called in alphabetical order.
	Consequently Utah came near the last, and
it was almost time to adjourn, but after com-
mencing to make a verbal report to save time
one of the ladies stated that a complete written
report had been prepared. The written report
was called for both from the platform and from
the audience, and it was voted that it should be
given in full. It was exceedingly well received,
in fact said to be the most perfect report and
the best presented.
	Thursday afternoon considerable time was
taken up in discussing the slanders of the
"Omaha Herald." Mrs. Saxon of Louisiana,
and Miss Couzens of St. Louis, were brilliantly
eloquent on the subject in defending Mrs.
Gougar and Mrs. Sewall of Indiana, against the
base fabrications and insinuations of the Herald
editor. After all this world of words, which
were choice and possitive, Mrs. Sewall came to
the front and said she should never have thought
of taking up the subject, although she was
much obliged to her good friends for so cordially
and ably espousing her cause, but for her own
part she could uot understand the dialect in
which it was written. It was consequently un-
intelligible to her and fell harmless as far as she
was concerned. Pure minded, high bred people
would not understand the language of the arti-
cle and therefore she had no fear of it. The
brief speech was scathing and had a more tell-
ing effect than all the eloquence of the ladies
who defended her. Mrs. Shattuck of Boston
was the first regular speaker.
	The evening session was the most crowded of
all, there was not even standing room left any-
where in the Opera House.
	The resolutions were read and approved.
	At half past nine the reception opened at the
parlors of the Paxton. Everything had been
arranged in elegant style, and the conversation
was kept up until a late hour, though many re-
tired as soon as they had paid their devoirs,
to Miss Anthony, Miss Couzens and the leading
ladies. To attempt a description of the affair
would take too much time, suffice it to say, it
passed off pleasantly, most of the time being
taken up with introductions, to people one never
expects to meet again, and knows nothing of
them except the name and perchance title.
Good byes were in order at the close, and many
kisses were interchanged and tears dropped in
the fond heartfelt adieux.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Report of Women's Conferences Salt Lake,
Utah and Tooele Stakes are held over till next
issue, also the continuation of "A Repre-
sentative Woman;"and several other interesting
articles.
	CORRECTION: In WOMAN'S EXPONENT of
October 1, No. 9, in the article entitled Scenes
and Incidents, In Nauvoo, two errors occur, one
is the date of July 8, 1844, which should be June
8, 1844; the other Gen. Wm. Law which should
read Gen. Wilson Law.


COMPENDIUM: People who wish to obtain a
knowledge of the principles and doctrines of the
Latter-day Saints will be greatly assisted in the
work of investigation by the "Compendium"
just issued from the press of the Deseret News.
It has been carefully prepared for publication by
Apostle F. D. Richards and Elder James A.
Little; and is a thorough and complete work of its
kind. It should be in every household and in
the pocket of every traveling missionary for ref-
erence. The Chronology which comes over
twenty pages, makes the volume still more
valuable. We think these brethren deserve
great credit for the adaptability of the book
to be used for which it is designed and also
the perfection of the subjects. It is for sale
at the Office of the Deseret News. Price one
dollar.
	THE Territorial Convention of the People's
Party convened in the City Hall, Monday, Oct.
9, at 12 m. A temporary organization was
effected and a committee on credentials appoint-
ed, some political speeches were made and an
adjournment agreed upon to Thursday, Oct. 12,
at 2 p. m. At that time a permanent organiza-
was effected and other committees appointed,
and adjourned to half past six p. m. During
the evening session several speeches were made
and Mrs. M. I. Horne being called upon, re-
sponded in a most happy manner. Convention
held two sessions on Friday and finished up the
business in a very satisfactory manner. The
Committee on Resolutions made an excellent
report, and the Convention decided that 20,000
copies be printed and distributed. After dis-
cussing and voting, etc., Hon. John T. Caine
received the nomination as candidate for the
office of Delegate, and made a very excellent
speech in response to a call from the House.
C. W. Penrose offered the following:
	Resolved, That in the Hon. Geo. Cannon the
people of Utah have had an able, upright and
fearless gentleman as their Delegate in Congress
for several sessions; that his exclusion from the
present Congress was a cruel blow aimed at the
right of representation; that the honorable gen-
tleman has the confidence, esteem and admira-
tion of the People's Party, and that we hereby
tender him the thanks of the people for his
faithful services in their behalf.
	In electing the Ter. Cen. Com., the ladies
were neglected or forgotten, but after the Reso-
lutions were offered, Mr. Penrose thinking it in-
consistent with the plank in the platform relat-
ing to woman suffrage, moved that the lady
delegates be permitted to nominate two ladies.
Accordingly the names of Mrs. E. B. Wells and
Mrs. M. I. Horne were added to the committee.
We regret that we have not space to publish
the resolutions but intend doing so and hope our
readers will read them carefully, for they are
worthy all consideration.


IN MEMORIAM.

	In the midst of life we are in death! Another
noble spirit has departed! One whom we
had vainly hoped to keep with us longer. And
although we realize her ameliorated condition, we
feel so deeply the want of her angelic presence,
her beloved society, "Which was ever like the
perfumed flower, Dispensing sweets through
every hour."
	Clara Young Conrad was born in the State of
Iowa, Pottawotomie County, July 30th, 1850.
She was indeed a child of faith, born in the new
covenant, the daughter of the late President
Joseph Young, and Sister Mary Ann Burn-
ham Young—her mother a plural wife, ever
patient and enduring, trustful and hopeful
through all trying scenes of the early establish-
ment of this Gospel and promulgation of the


principle of Plural Marriage—and she seemed
to have endowed her child with the same
sweet and peaceful spirit, for it has ever been
manifested throughout her whole existence.
And of her it can be truly said "Those who
knew her best, loved her most." This I can
truly say—having known her since her early
girlhood—and in retrospecting this acquaintance,
I can find no blemish in her character.
	In 1867 she was married to Jasper Conrad,
and with others shared the hardships and priva-
tions of the ever to-be-remembered "Muddy
Mission," enduring ill-health and the many dis-
comforts incident to the journey with the most
patient fortitude, never a word of complaint
passed her lips. Her faith and trust in God was
unbounded, manifesting itself in very early life.
Upon one occasion of attending meeting the
desire came upon her to hear the gift of tongues,
and in faith she offered up a fervent prayer that
this desire might be granted, which indeed it
was before the closing of the services; this was
at the early age of eleven years.
	Sister Conrad although a thoroughly domestic
woman—a true wife and mother in the truest
sense of the term—possessed a spirit of love and
benevolence towards all, and has been active in
many public capacities, acting as first counselor
to President M. A. Freeze, of the Stake Presi-
dency of the Y. L. M. I. A. And notwith-
standing her weak condition, she traveled con-
siderably from town to town instructing and
exhorting the young, and yielding a powerful
influence for good—all listening with enrapt
attention to her eloquent and inspired teach-
ings. Her great desire has ever been to live for
good and usefulness, but she has now passed to
another sphere of action, where her labors will
not cease, and all the desires of her heart will
be granted.
	For a number of years this patient woman
has been a great sufferer with lung trouble,
terminating in organic disease of those vital
parts. Of late her friends have watched her
with the most anxious solicitude, fearing that
the sands of life were fast ebbing away. Yet
the last few weeks seemed to bring a favorable
change—these hopes proved fallacious—for upon
the 20th of September she passed away without
scarcely a moment's notice—dying in her
mother's arms, that most faithful of all friends
who has so unselfishly nursed and watched over
her from the cradle to the grave. Although her
demise was sudden—she was ready to go, for
such as she are ever prepared to answer their
Maker's call. Her good works are gone before
her. She leaves a husband and three children
with numerous relatives and friends to mourn
her untimely departure.

A bright spirit has flown, a loved one departed,
	A weary one gone to her rest,
While friends are left desolate, bowed and sad-hearted,
	Yet feeling that Father knows best.

Cold death often visits the most perfect household,
	Selecting the dearest of all;
None purer, nor better, from out of the threshold
	E'er answered the sorrowful call—

Than Clara—so lovely in face, mind and spirit,
	Intelligent, gentle and true;
Her counsel so wise, that all paused to hear it,
	Like wisdom is given to few.

We know that our loved one is free from all sorrow,
	She knoweth no more mortal pain;
We'll try to look forth with hope to the morrow,
	When we"ll meet, and ne'er part, from our Clara
		again.

E. R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS.

BY ARTIMESIA SNOW.

	Delivered in St. George, December 5th, 1878,
before a Mass meeting of ladies.
	We are called upon to-day to express our feel-
ings in regard to the principle of polygamy, and

[Column 2]
whether we uphold the proceedings of our Chris-
tian sisters—(call them sisters because they are
of our sex) or whether we enter our protest
against them. Sisters, I am a sincere believer
in plural marriage. In 1844 my husband first
asked my consent to take to himself other wives.
I freely gave it, believing such an order of mar-
riage to be a pure and holy principle, revealed
from the heavens to our beloved Prophet, Seer,
and Revelator. Knowing it to be a principle
practiced anciently by those, who now sit at the
right hand of our Father in Heaven, and know-
ing also my husband to be a virtuous man, and
entering into that order out of pure motives and
in obedience to the will and commandments of
Heaven, I say I freely gave my consent. I have
lived in the order of Celestial marriage thirty-
five years. I have no wish—I have no desire—to
have it changed or abolished.
	For why should I wish to change the plans of
the Almighty, that He has marked out for the
benefit of the human family?
	I have not been without my trials in the prac-
tice of this principle, but I have had peace and
comfort, and I have had sorrow. I expected to be
tried. I entered into it with that expectation.
I had my prejudices to subdue, my selfishness
to overcome, and many things to contend with.
	The Lord has said, He would have a tried peo-
ple, that they should come up through great
tribulation, that they might be prepared to en-
dure His presence and glory. If I had no trials,
I should not expect to be numbered with the
People of God, and therefore not be made a par-
taker of His blessings and glory.
	I have reared a large family in this marriage
system. I have been the mother of eleven child-
ren. My husband has been the father of thirty-
five, twenty-six now living, all equally honorable
in as much as they pursue an upright, righteous
course through life. Out of that number there
are sixteen sons. Not one of them has ever
committed any crime that has brought a stain
upon their character or a dishonor upon the
heads of their parents. Not one of them is
given to tippling or drunkenness, not one
smokes or chews tobacco, and as fast as they
arrive at mature age, earn their living by the
sweat of the brow, or by the labor of their
own hands. Why should they not be honorable?
Their father is an honorable man. He is hon-
ored with that priesthood that emanates from
the Gods.
	We have children born in the new and ever-
lasting covenant of marriage, who are walking
in the footsteps of their father and mothers, and,
I trust, will honor it.
	My sister next older than myself, was the
first woman given in plural marriage. She lived
and died a good, faithful Latter-day Saint, true
to the principles she embraced and is now re-
joicing with her husband, our beloved Prophet,
in the eternal worlds. If I can walk in her foot-
steps, imitate her example, and attain that
glory and exaltation that I believe she has, I
will be satisfied.
	It looks very odd to me nowadays to see a man
living alone with one wife, especially a middle
aged man. It does very well for new beginners,
just starting out on the journey of life to begin
with one, and then add to. But to see a man
in the decline of life, I say it looks odd. It looks
selfish, contracted, drawn up into a nut shell.
It puts me in mind of the blessing that was
asked "O Lord, bless me and my wife, my son
John and his wife, us four and no more. Amen."
	We have been driven from a should-be land of
freedom and liberty. We have wended our
way over a trackless desert, footsore and bleed-
ing, to these valleys of the mountains, thinking
here the weary could find rest. Thinking here
we could live in peace, enjoy our rights and
freedom, and worship God according to the dic-

[Column 3]
tates of our own conscience. But in this we
have been disappointed. Our persecutors not
being satisfied with driving us from county to
county, from state to state, and at last from the
United States, have followed us here. And
from time to time have gotten up their crusades
against us to annoy and perplex, and last of all,
our Chritian sisters (?) have taken it in hand, to
deliver us from that awful yoke of bondage and
oppression (?) with which we are bound, and
raise us from that low state of degradation (?)
into which we have fallen. My Christian sisters,
this is a mistaken idea of yours! We are not the
kind of women you take us to be. There are
just as pure, virtuous, noble spirited women in
Utah, as you will find any where on the foot-
stool of God. You need not be to that trouble.
We can deliver ourselves if we chaose. We can
live in the plural marriage system or out of it.
There is no compulsion whatever. Wait till we
solicit your aid. We have not asked your ser-
vices. We do not need them. We do not want
them. They are voluntary. It is what I call
offered service, and it is a stink in our nostrils!
	If you do not like our religion, if you do not
like the principles which we practice, I would
say to all such then hie ye away to your own
cities and homes from whence ye came, and
there get up your petitions to Mrs. Hayes to
use her influence for Congress to legislate for
the morality of your own cities and towns.
Bestow your labors where they are needed, and
not here. Charity should begin at home, and
then perhaps we should not have so many
foundlings dropped at our doors as we now have.
Poor things! With all our numerous children
born in plural marriage to support, we can take
care of them too. They are human flesh. We
have enough for all. Utah has made no provi-
sion for illegimate children. Latter-day Saints
have none such, nor ever expect to have while
they practice plural marriage.
	It is quite enough for the sterner sex to get up
these crusades against an innocent people,
without your imbrueing your hands in the blood
of innocence. You will have enough to do to
plead for mercy at the bar of God to be ex-
tended to your husbands and fathers who have
committed the like acts. You should have com-
menced this task thirty-five years ago, when
this principle now so despised was in its infancy.
But it has lived, grown up, and become of age,
and your puny arm cannot overthrow it.
	God is at the helm. In Him we trust. And
I pray that we may live in peace in these valleys
of the mountains, and be permitted to continue
our labors in redeeming this barren waste and
making it to become a fruitful field and a place
beautiful to the beholder; and sit under our
own vine and fig tree, with no one to molest
or interfere, while God shall pour out His
scourges and judgments upon the wicked and
ungodly, and all those who reject the Ever-
lasting Gospel, and especially upon all these
who seek the overthrow and destruction of this
people.
	NOTE. Mrs Artimesia Snow whose address
we publish above is the first wife of Apostle
Erastus Snow, of St. George. She was the
daughter of Alma and Sarah Beaman and was
born at Lerona, Livingston County, New York,
March 30, 1819. She was married to Erastus
Snow then quite a young man, in Far West,
Mo., December 13, 1838. She has ever been a
firm believer and earnest advocate of the doc-
trines and principles of the Latter-day Saints.
Her address to the ladies of St. George, is copied
from the records of the Relief Society of that
place, as many of her friends were desirous to
see it in print, that her testimony upon the
principle of celestial marriage might be on
record. Ed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OUR CONFERENCE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The Conference of October 6th, 1882, has just
closed; but the spirit that pervaded it and the
marvelous influence it threw over all that
mighty assemblage of thousands of human
beings, will long, long be felt! s[-]ely it will
never fade or die, but, will pass into different
forms as it prevades the human strata. My heart
yearned, and still yearns to see it appear again
in pamphlet form, and issued through the
United States, and England, that honest minds
might read and be instructed from the perusal.
Some of the discourses were so inspirational, so
logically truthful, so actually sublime, that it
seems to me, that every honest, every intelligent
mind, every man or woman who have held the
Bible as an inspired volume, and containing the
plan of salvation, and the rule and guide of life,
must at once decide, that a Voice was heard in
that Tabernacle during those four days, soaring
above all human voices declaring the truth of
the words spoken, and of the principles advoca-
ted, yes—and it was a Voice from which there
was no appeal!
	Can it be possible that any man or woman
who has been raised under the teaching of the
Old and New Testament, who have acknowl-
edged as their God, the God of Abraham, Isaac
and Jacob, acknowledged Jesus Christ as the
Savior and Redeemer of the world, and conse-
quently as their Savior and Redeemer, can they,
could they hear, or read the discourses of the
last four days, these days of Conference and
turn away—shut up their ears and their un-
derstanding and decide they cannot receive
it, simply because these sublime truths, these
sublime principles were promulgated by Latter-
day Saint Elders, when they are the same prin-
ciples they have been educated under, the
same truths enunciated, only enlarged and
elaborated and illuminated by a greater light,
even the light of revelation!
	The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob—of
Enoch, of Moses, of Isaiah, of Ezekiel and all
the ancient Prophets—is the God of the Latter-
day Saints, Jesus Christ the acknowledged
Savior of the world, is the acknowledged Savior
of the Latter-day Saints—then why is all this
rejection, this turning away from TRUTH?
Truth is eternal, and cannot clash, or misfit
with another truth.
	Satan spoke truth to the Savior when tempt-
ing him—saying "He hath given His angels
charge concerning thee lest thou dash thy foot
against a stone!" Who does not know that this
was truth even from the mouth of Satan? I
am speaking to illustrate that "Truth is truth
where'er 'tis found!" How often does a very
child speak a truth, at which we are astounded,
and for the moment we are humbled, as though
in the presence of a superior being, and "we
knew it not!" What beautiful, sublime, and
practical truths those ancient but most accom-
plished heathens enunciated for the rule and
guide of life! What morals! What manners!—
so pure, that they have been studies for the
pure, and good, through all those ages even down
to us! As Brother Kimball used to say of good
things, "if they are not in the Bible they ought
to be!" Who thinks of rejecting them? No one,
they are in the libraries of all the great and
grand of earth to-day! All acknowledge them
as sublime truth. Yet they were enunciated by
men who raised an altar "To the unknown
God!" They also were ahead of their times—
and were hated and put to death for the prin-
ciples which they taught and practiced; I will
only name two of these great, grand men, Sene-
ca and Socrates one was placed in a warm bath,

[Column 2]

and bled to death, and the other was presented
with a bowl of poison; these are but specimens
of thousands, who in different forms have met
a cruel death for the principles of purity and
morality which they taught and practiced and
all the good and intelligent of all the ages since,
have held their words up as immortal models
and almost deified the writers.
	When Christ was upon the earth, all know
how He was received, and treated, it was only
the few, the poor, but the pure in heart, who
received his teachings, and His followers re-
ceived the name of Christian in derision! Since
then and for generations He has been acknowl-
edged, the worshiped—the deified Son of God!
Are His words truer to-day than when they
issued from His sacred lips? No they are the
same "yesterday, to-day and forever," but it
has become popular—yes fashionable if you
please, to worship Him—with the lip at any
rate!
	A mind, open to truth, from whatever source
it comes is a God-given mind, such a mind can-
not be "far from the kingdom of God." Truth
never extends her hand to error, let it take what-
ever form of beauty it may. Truth is the Priest-
ess of God, speaks by His voice, inspired by
His spirit, leads and guides by His teachings is
eternal, immutable immortal! Error in what-
ever shape or form is ignorance, darkness
DEATH!
	How God forsaken must that mind be, that
does not know Truth when hearing it, how
perverted the training, how false the education
of such a mind! How sweet is truth, how we
love those whom we know ever speak truth!
What entire confidence we have in them! They
are a blessing to all who associate with them!
Now my mind reverts to those four days just
passed, and in my "mind's eye" I see those
assembled thousands every eye bent to one
focus, and every ear in the same direction,
every brain comprehending the principles en-
unciated, some more, some in less degree, but all
according to their capability, every heart ac-
knowledging, and endorsing those Heaven-
born principles—and I know the power and
spirit of God was in that assembly in a marvel-
ous degree, and I rejoice, and glory in the fact;
that mighty assembly comprised the covenant
servants and handmaidens of the Lord, who had
made a covenant with Him by sacrifice, many
had laid their heart's treasures upon the altar
and were ready for the sacrifice, if their salva-
tion could not be accomplished without it, all in
some way had made the needed sacrifice; if the
poor had not wealth, they had something nearer
and dearer—a father, or mother, or husband, or
wife, but they heard the Gospel in its fulness
and with it they heard a Voice saying, "Whoso
loveth father or mother or wife or child, or any
possession more than me or my Gospel is
not worthy of me! and cannot be my disciple,
but who will make a covenant with me by sac-
rifice, shall in this life receive a hundred fold,
and in that which is to come life everlasting."


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SUMMIT STAKE.

	The Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief
Societies of Summit Stake was held at Kamas
on Friday, Sept. 1st, 1882. The Conference
was well attended, nearly all the Ward Socie-
ties being represented. Presidents Cluff and
Pack, of the Stake authorities, were present as
were also Sisters Howard and Horne, from Salt
Lake City. The Conference was presided over
by President Mary J. Attwood. The Kamas
choir furnished excellent singing. The various

[Column 2]
﻿Society reports were read, and verbal represen-
tation of all save three were given by duly auth-
orized representatives, from which we learned
that the Stake organization was in a prosperous
condition.
	The Conference was addressed by Pres. M. J.
Attwood and Counselors Ann Cluff and Ruth
Pack, chiefly upon matters of local interest,
and of an appropriate nature. They were fol-
lowed by Sisters Howard and Horne; they
spoke in their usual interesting manner, upon
matters of general interest to the Societies.
Their remarks were listened to with marked
attention and were much appreciated. Sister
Howard complimented, in the course of her re-
marks, the sisters of the Kamas Society upon
the cleanly appearance of the meeting house,
and upon the neatness and order that was
manifest in the room.
	Presidents Cluff and W. E. Pack, made a
few cheering remarks, spoke encouragingly of
the work being done by the Societies in general;
and gave some good and appropriate instruc-
tions applicable to our present circumstances.
	Sister Eliza Rhead, President of the Y. L,
M. I. Associations, spoke in behalf of that
organization.
	On the following day (Saturday forenoon)
the Y. L. M. I. A., met in Conference, and the
afternoon was devoted to the Primary Associa-
tions, Sister L. Roundy, President. Both
meetings were addressed by Sisters Horne and
Howard. The remarks of Sister Horne at the
Y. L. and Primary meetings were replete with
good and appropriate counsel and advice, and
were given in such a pleasing and simple man-
ner, that the juvenile audience were highly
pleased and interested. Their bright and in-
telligent countenances showing to the observer
that they were highly pleased and edified in her
remarks to them.
	The Conference adjourned to meet in Coal-
ville on the first Friday in March next.
	This Conference was one of the best ever held
in the Stake; and let us hope that we will be
benefited thereby. All were highly pleased
and gratified with the visit of Sisters Howard
and Horne.				J. S. BOYDEN.

WEBER STAKE.

	DEAR SISTER WELLS,—The ladies of the
Relief Society—including the Y. L. M. I., and
Primary Associations, held their Conference on
Sept. 7th, 8th and 9th, insts., which were all
well attended considering the busy season.
The Spirit of the Lord was indeed with us, and
we received much good and wise counsel from
those who addresed us, which, if practiced,
would make us better and nobler men and
women. The Conferences were adjourned for
three months. Please excuse a more lengthy
report this time. Respectfully,
						MONTA HARRIS.
	Ogden.

ST. GEORGE PRIMARY.

	The P. A. of St. George Stake held a Fair
here on June 30th, and July 1st, in the base-
ment of the Tabernacle. Articles of all sorts
and kinds were exhibited,representing the labor
of children from four years of age to sixteen
years. One table was covered with fancy ar-
ticles, one table with that which is useful, one
with boy's articles, such as hay-racks, rakes, a
trunk or two, wagons, traps, doll's furniture,
&c., &c. Another table was devoted to vege-
tables, another to cookery, while the room was
lined with bed-quilts and rugs. A table was
given up to the display of silk, which was very
good. Much satisfaction was given, and all
seemed repaid for time and labor spent. Prizes
were given, necessarily very simple, by the Pres.
to encourage the children. Pres. J. H. Ivins,
who had the full responsibility on her shoul-
ders, deserves great credit for the manner in


which the Fair was conducted. In the even-
ing an entertainment by the several wards of
St. George was given in the Hall. It was a
success, and reflected great credit on those who
took part therein. It was given under the
charge of Mr. and Mrs. J.F. Gates.
	The financial report of the Fair and Enter-
tainment is as follows:	By cash, $38.60; by
trade, $35.35: total, 73.95. To expenses cash,
$2.50; trade, $5.00; total, 7.50. Profit, 65.45.
J. H. Ivins, Pres. S. Y. Gates, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 79


[Column 1]
﻿FROM OMAHA TO ATCHISON.

	Leaving Omaha on the Missouri Pacific
railway, at 7-10, the road runs through the
most beautiful country scenery. Omaha is
thickly peopled and shows great enterprise and
wealth, but the quiet of the country was
especially restful, and the season gave almost
perfect touches to the beauty of the landscape
as we sped along. Here and there were towns
and villages, but what pleased us most was
the scenery, the soft graceful willows by the
quiet murmuring rivulets, the variety of colors
more perfect than the picture of an artist, on
the hills, the pine, walnuts, elms, hickory and
powerful oak trees, all luxurious in foliage and
variegated as Joseph’s coat of many colors.
The flaming sumach in the distance with its
royal purple berries in such heavy bunches,
and the elder berries in magnificent blue clus-
ters, added much to the glorious charm of the
miles upon miles of woodland. Then again
there would be acres of cornfields and of
sugarcane, fully ripe, richly glowing in the
sunshine. As we neared Atchison, the scenery
was more diversified with hills and woodland
and of course more beautiful to one accus-
tomed to mountainous districts; one tries to see
all and look on both sides. Atchison is beau-
tifully situated on the Missouri river and is a
great railroad centre where you can take trains
East, West, North or South. There is some-
thing over 17,000 inhabitants, and the city is
growing rapidly. Newspapers published there
are as brimful of news and politics as in Omaha,
Chicago or New York. Our time was occu-
pied in visiting relatives, and therefore we had
little chance to make observations on what we
saw; we went to the city reservoirs up on the
hill tops and near to the oak groves; also to
the Oak Hill cemetery among the graves.
It is pleasant to be in the woods, and we
thought were the dead conscious of their sur-
roundings, it would be most agreeable to lie
under the giant oaks, where sheltered from the
storm and wind, and away from the bustle of
the great busy town, rest passive and quiet
among the shrubbery and flowers of the hills.
But the dead are not there, only the mortal
part, but the immortal has gone to regions of
light and knowledge, but the spirit if permit-
ted to watch over the body it has left will re-
joice that the remains, the casket, lies so pleas-
antly and peacefully.
	One of the things of which Atchison boasts
is the bridge over the Missouri river, one
which you may ride or walk or sail under. It
took a whole year to build it and it is cer-
tainly a magnificent structure. It is of wrought
iron, rectangular truss, stone piers; the bridge
is used for highway and railway triffic and
sidewalk for travelers. It has a drawn span
328 feet long, giving 160 feet clear water.
There are four piers and two abutments. The
pivot pier circular 46 feet in diamater, and the
other three piers are 25x52 at the base 9x26
feet at the top. It is said to be the finest
bridge on the river. Churches, there are many.
The Catholic church and convent are magni-
ficent and the adjoining grounds most highly
cultivated are a great adornment to the city.
Many other elegant Churches, Academies and
residences, fine hotels and business houses.
	We were interviewed there by newspaper

[Column 2]
reporters who all thought it remarkably strange
to see a woman who believed in the practice
of plural marriage. However as the papers
were quite courteous and complimentary to
us personally and just on our question, we
are grateful to the editors and feel that they
are men who love justice and hate hypocrisy
and deceit. We were very sorry not to be
able to stay any longer in this beautiful city
but the best of friends must part, and go at
12.10 a.m., at the grand station at Atchison we
bade a sad adieu to our beloved friends, and
took the night train for Omaha; so as to lose
no time, arriving at 8 a.m., and at 12.15 took
the Union Pacific for Ogden, on our return trip.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS OF MRS. MAY WRIGHT
SEWALL.

	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, of Indianapolis,
chairman of the executive committee next de-
livered an address which for argument, wit
and eloquence would challenge comparison
with the best efforts of our public men. She
held the audience enchained for an hour and a
half, and we only regret that any report for
which we have space must be meagre and pro-
saic in comparison with the flood of proof, per-
suasion, sentiment, humor and pathos which by
turns characterized this masterly speach.
"Now, I say," she began, "that there is no
argument that can be found in Burke or Jeffer-
son (referring to what Mr. Poppleton had said)
which gives to the right hand of American
manhood the ballot, which does not logically
give it to woman—or, if it denies it to woman
would not exlude men therefrom. If these doc-
trines mean anything they mean as much for
me as for any man. I am a person—I was born
within the jurisdiction of the United States,
and subject to it and to that of the state in
which I reside. The tax-payer passes by my
property no more than any male citizen; I am
amenable to the criminal laws the same as any
male fellow citizen. The women of every state
and city are citizens on the street, at the police
station, in the jail, even on the scaffold—why
are they not citizens on election day at the
ballot-box? Logically and abstractly the
women of the United States have the abstract
right to be citizens at the polls. But gentle-
men tell me that we do not live in a world of
abstract principles; but that in this concrete
world it is not what is right, but what is ex-
pedient that must decide the fate of every
new measure. Now that which is right is, by
necessity of its righteousness, expedient; and
naught can be expedient which in itself is not
right. But I will meet you on the basis of ex-
pediency alone. I will consider such objec-
tions as I have encountered only in Nebraska.
Indiana men are much more prolific and in-
genious in objections than Nebraska men.
	Mrs. Gougar (interrupting): Mrs. Sewall,
I think, underrates the capacity of Nebraska
men, because she has been here only ten days;
I have found them quite as prolific in objec-
tions as Indiana men. (Laughter.)
	Mrs. Sewall: Well, be that as it may,
here are some of the arguments I have encoun-
tered. The first is, that a class not having the
physical strength to execute the laws should
not make them. Now it strikes me that the
gentlemen who produced this objection could
not with very good effect have carried a
musket. It must have been originally made
either by a boy who had just celebrated his 21st
birthday party (at his mother's expense) or by
a man who had passed his allotted three score
and ten. But this is a republic in which we
live, and what is the meaning of a republic?
It means a government which rests not on
physical strength alone, but purely and solely
on majority opinion. To make a republic
humanity must be developed sufficiently to re-
spect the right of opinion. The republic needs

[Column 2]
not the sword and the gun, except for its pre-
servation as a state. Three times, indeed, we
of America have fought it out by physical
strength. But, though that be so, is it still a
fact that fitness for war is the condition of the
exercise of citizenship? Even if that be so I
am still able to vindicate our right. The
physical statistics of the war—two of the eight
volumes of which are issued—show at the be-
ginning out of every 1,000 men called on to
bear arms 278 were exempted; while in the
later stages of the war, after the first enthusiasm
had passed, and the government proceeded by
draft, 385 out of every thousand were exempted
—a full one-third, from beginning to end—on
account of physical capacity. If this rule were
applied then it would disfranchise one male
elector in every three. But there is another
page in military service—that which records
the deeds of women who throughout the war
gave up their lives to their country. More
than 100,000 women actively participated in
the war in camp, hospital, and field, and the
majority of them faced the dangers of the field
unweaponed.
	But in Nebraska I have found a most touch-
ing fear in regard to the purity of the women
who shall vote. [Laughter.] When confronted
with this danger, I ask to see the statutes which
make purity and uprightness in men the con-
dition on which they shall vote. [Applause.]
Gentlemen, first apply this rule to yourselves
and then you may apply it to us. But is it
not always true that those who participate in
the first results of any great popular movement
are those who carried it on to consummation?
Was it the fallen women who first raised this
demand for the ballot? Nay; it was the
Lucretia Motts, and not the Magdalens of
Philadelphia who began the movement, and it
was not the Magdalens of New York and of
Boston who rallied about Lucretia Motts; but
whatever was at that time best in womanly cul-
ture and character, and later what was best in
social position—these it has been who have
taken up the work begun by those pure and
noble women; and to day, the learned, the wise
and the good of the nations of Europe rise up
only to prostrate themselves at the feet of the
woman (Elizabeth Cady Slanton) whose honors
everywhere abroad are those of a Queen. And
here in Nebraska, as I find, it is not the fallen
and degraded who have come forth to welcome
me. What excuse have the women to give
who come late to our meetings? They come
not from wicked orgies, but from gatherings of
the Christian temperance women, from meet-
ings of Sunday school teachers, from commit-
tees of local literary clubs—these are the women
who are doing the work for suffrage and for
equality before the law in Nebraska (great ap-
plause.) But granting that bad women come:
—I to-day have learned from one of our even-
ing papers that even bad women have a very
elevating effect upon public men. To-day was
"Ladies' Day" in our police court, and this re-
port informs me that the judge appeared on
this occasion with a clean dickey and collar!
(Laughter). Now if bad women have such an
effect on your judges what may we not expect
of them on community at large? But I have
heard a most profound reason why bad women
will alone come to the polls—because, I am told,
the good women won't! But what do the re-
cords show concerning those who ask for the
ballot? Among all the literary women in this
country there are just three who declare that
they will not vote; while in the long lists of
women engaged in works of philanthropy,
charity, and moral reform, not one name ap-
pears in protest; these are our suffragists—
everywhere, the women who were foremost in
every good work. But, says another, the
ignorant women will vote. Ah, this is distres-
sing! it is agonizing! But where, will you in-
form me, is the statute on Nebraska's books


[Column 1]
that makes intelligence in men the condition of
franchise? Were that condition made, the re-
sult, I am glad to say, would be less disastrous
in Nebraska than in any other state, for the
census shows that you have less ratio of illit-
eracy than any of your sister states. But, in-
sisted a noted clergyman, the illiterate women
and the unvirtuous women will "vititate the
polls." Here is an item of news, indeed,
worthy a place in your press reports!
	But, says another, it won't do to have woman
suffrage in Nebraska—not that it is not right
enough, but it involves such a waste of time;
the wives would merely duplicate the votes of
their husbands anyhow, daughters of their
fathers and sweethearts of their lovers. But it
naturally suggests itself that there is such a
state of harmony in Nebraska, let us have the
the vote by all means, if for no other reason
than to illustrate the harmony. [Laughter.]
But another said that not a Nebraska woman
would vote as her husband does. But if there
is so much intelligence, and so great intel-
lectual liberty in the homes of Nebraska as
this statement involves, no harm can surely
come from the ballot; it would then become a
safety-valve; the wife who votes against her
husband has simply neutralized the vote she
doesn't believe in, and there is no further
ground of quarrel over a mere difference of
opinion. [Laughter and applause.]
	But, objects another, it is not because the
women do think or do not think just like their
husband's that I oppose woman suffrage, but
because none of the women want to vote. This
certainly shows a remarkable deference in the
male voter to the opinion of those who have no
political influence. But perhaps the woman
who doesn't want the ballot has never been
frankly asked whether she does; perhaps the
husband's ridicule, scorn and contempt have
prevented a free declaration. When I hear
men saying that they are willing that women
should vote, but they do not wish it and there-
fore they (the men) will not vote for the amend-
ment, I say that I respect the ballot too much
to make plea; not on this gound, but because
you frankly do not believe in woman suffrage,
should you vote against it. For such an ex-
pression of individual conviction, and not for
the puerile plea urged, do I have respect.
[Applause.]
	Again, I hear it objected that your pure
wives and daughters must not be brought down
into the mire of politics. My father, and
brother, and husband, have always voted, and
they stand there in "the mire of politics" with
unsullied feet, and with a pure heart and clean
hands. But if politics be so base, who made
it so? Whatever their conditions are they are
conditions of manhood's making. But this is
the old argument of the ages—to keep woman
subordinate, not tyranically but in ignorance.
This argument, 'til within a few generations,
kept women from the table with men—kept
girls out of schools, and it kept women out of
the professions and trades. Why, then, did
God send boys and girls in the same family?
The struggle in Boston over the admission of
girls to the public schools was reounted; and
it is only within ten years that they have en-
tered the Latin schools with the boys, nor have
their morals been corrupted. And now, at
last, everywhere, women have entered the
schools, the professions and the trades, they
have become the queens of the social world,
and what has become of their purity and mod-
esty, what do American men who have traveled
abroad say? That nowhere in all the world are
there found such women as America's women
—[great applause]—nowhere such purity with
such freedom; nowhere is so high a price set on
virtue, and nowhere are the homes of the peo-
ple so well admired. What makes it so?
It is the air of freedom which we, women and
men of the new world have breathed in this

[Column 2]
home, in the school, in the working occupations
and in society—the only atmosphere compat-
ible with the highest virtue. Why fear for its
health should we go to the ballot-box with
you? [Great applause.] After referring to the
objections that the ballot would destroy dom-
estic felicity—that it could not help having a
bad effect on women—and others of the same
character, the speaker asked what is it that has
made the American citizen great? Is it our
great rivers, mountains, plains and forests?
Nay, it has been the consciousness of his indivi-
duality and of the right to his individuality.
The outward conditions are good; they do in-
deed help to develop the man, but not till the
institutions of freedom have given him capacity
to develop himself. If the franchise makes
man more self-helpful and self-respectful will
it not have the same effect on American
women ? Shall we not, like you, grow in dig-
nity and self-respect ? In reply to the objection
that woman has no real reason for voting, the
speaker said that man claimed the need of it to
protect his property and his occupation.
Woman, it is true, has less property than man;
but as I need it, the less I have the more need
that I be able to protect it. But women as
well as men have industrial interests. In place
of seven anti-domestic occupations thirty years
ago the women of Indiana now have fifty-eight,
and those of New England have 85; and in
Indiana 21,000 women make their living in
productive industries. If there were but 21,
000 men in Nebraska who thus made their liv-
ing, would they not need the ballot as much
as do the 90,000 now?" In conclusion the
speaker pictured the delight that would reign
in women's hearts when they could stay at
home and enjoy protection in their sphere by
enjoying their rights outside of it. We want
the ballot to protect us in that sphere, what-
ever it is. Ex.


80	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOMESPUN LETTER.

TO MRS. HANNAH T. KING.

	Do you know Sister King, my girls and I
thought we would run in and see you a few
moments, and tell you while we are here, how
much comfort, yes, real comfort, we have taken
in your contributions to the EXPONENT. We
are kind of plain home-bodies, and not very
good at giving expression to our joys or sor-
rows. You know how it is with us; we have
never used ourselves to giving praise. But,
dear sister, we would like to give you a hearty
hand-shake, along with our gratitude, for your
kind and helpful words. The girls were just
saying, before we came in, that they think, we
as a people, are too slow, or too careless, at giv-
ing praise aud encouragement to those who
have nobly earned it; meaning chiefly, in liter-
ary labors. As I replied to them, we could
never estimate the amount of good the soul-
inspiring lines from E. R. Snow, the cheering
sweet sentences of Aunt Em., and your own
pure ennobling words have done the women of
Utah. And so we came on a happy errand,
to voice our thanks to you, our Woman Friend.
Will you let us say, continue your labors, for
sure, sure is the reward, and while we know,
many will come with hearts full of sorrow, to
lay on your grave the immortal wreath of fame,
let us lay our simple flowers at your feet, that
you may, perchance, be cheered on your daily
road.
	And now good-by ! But before we quit your
home, let us leave with you one heartfelt God
bless you ! God bless you, Sister King!
	N. B. Just to see how many "girls" live in
Utah, who fully echo these sentiments, I wish
all who do, would forward their names on a slip
of paper to the Office of WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
to be given to Sister King as souvenir.
							HOMESPUN.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.
BY special request of MRS. E. R. SNOW SMITH,
Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence her class in Obstetrics, November 1st,
1882, in her office over Godbe & Pitts' Drug Store. Lec-
tures, three per week for five months. During the course,
Drs. Anderson and Benedict will each deliver six prac-
tical lectures. Fee for course, $30.00; former stu-
dents, $20,00; books (3), $12,00, Manikin, skeleton, in-
struments and plates for illustration. Please send or-
ders for books early, as they have to be ordered from
the East.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORC[-]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders fro[-]
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAP[-]
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1882.	NO. 11.


A RESPONSE.

BY HANNA T. KING.

I feel I must answer your beautiful lines
They come like the sunshine in winterly times
They come with a warmth, and a genuine ring,
That is sound—and such ever sweet music doth bring.
You only speak truth, I am all you portray,
And to you I spoke truth in the very same way;
I know you've a gift that no teacher has given
I know 'tis a gift from the Chancery of Heaven—
Oh! prize it! to you it will prove such a boon—
You'd not change for a gold mine—no not very soon;
Nor the wealth of a Rothschild, the Jew of the Kings!
By which you could purchase terrestrial things;
In extasy, No the fond poet exclaims,
No ermine—no di’monds, or jewel-linked chains
Could buy from my brain, nor indeed from my heart,
The jewel I hold of my soul a rich part—
My Lyre! my Lyre, gives oceans of wealth
I lave in its waters, abounding in health!
I drink of its streams fresh from Helicon's fount—
And into the regions of poesy mount
Parnassus I climb—from its glorious hight,
Earth recedes from my vision in mystical flight.
I'm away from the world, and its "Vanity Fair,"
Its tinsel, its emptiness—even its glare!
All these throw no charm o'er my heart or my brain,
On Pegasus mounted, with full scope of rein.
I pass into regions of gorgeous delight,
Where day is eternal, with sunshine all bright;
Is this not a boon no mortal can give?
Is this not a gift for the life we now live?
Yes, yes! 'tis a prism that gilds all we see,
A rainbow that arches the Heavens for me.

And will you not listen? and will you not say,
Friend give me thy hand—I am one in thy lay?
Yes poets are counterpart, twin in their soul,
And they passively bow to the mystic control;
And to Heaven they offer the prayer of the heart—
From Thy Lyre, Thy gift, may we two never part.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
THE PLEASURES OF MEMORY.

	Mental Philosophists describe memory as
that form of mental activity in which the
mind's former perceptions and sensations are
represented in thought. The external objects
are no longer present—the original sensations
and perceptions have vanished—but by the
mind's own power are reproduced in thought,
giving as it were, a representation or image of
the original.
	By memory's aid we may revel in the beau-
ties of the past; forgetting many of its shadows,
we see standing out in bold relief only the
bright pictures that were painted in the "sweet
long ago," and hung in the gallery of departed
years. As our mental eye glances down the
vista of years, we see ourselves in the Spring-
time of life and we think we are children
again, gamboling upon the common, playing
"hide-and seek" in the woods, feeding the
ducks, driving the cows, or traversing the
mountain dell, or scaling the hill-side in search
of modest and regal flowers; loving perhaps,
best of all, the fragrant wild-wood roses. One
by one we recall the vicissitudes of our
life, and the fairy haunts of those long lost
hours, are far more fresh and green than those
of the present, for they are mellowed by the
shades of time, the ruggedness is erased, and
only the beautiful remains.
	Memory is the source of some of the purest
pleasures of life. The present, however joyous,

[Column 2]
is fleeting and evanescent. Former hours are
past, apparently lost, but not gone for we live
them over again in memory; they are en-
shrouded in the beautiful sepulcher of the past,
from which we can draw aside the misty veil,
and rest us awhile from the burdens of the
present. Whatever shadows cross the pathway
of to-day; whatever storms assail our barque,
the wounded spirit exhibiting its concentric
power, recoils within its inner chambers, and
there under the mild magic of the reflected
light of other years, is soothed and strengthened
for the battle of life.
	Go view the captive slave who has been
crushed until his high heroic spirit bleeds—
even with him memory at times, "bursts the
twilight of the mind," and her sweet delusions
soothe his sinking soul. The bondsman dreams
of the hours when he was free—again he revels
in the cool breeze and musky evenings of an
Eastern home, and imagines he again "quaffs
the palms rich nectar." Lucile who had
learned the hard sad lessons of sacrifice and
resignation, found comfort in her dreams of the
splendid Orient where her earlier hours had
been spent, and where she had known nothing
of life's bitter teachings.
	In the aged and blind the pleasurers of mem-
ory reach their zenith. The aged matron as
she nods by the hearth, recalls the days of her
girlhood—the dance, the song, the silvery
sleigh-bells, the lively serenades, the old tryst-
ing places, and above all, that day of days when
as a blushing bride she was lead to the marriage
altar. The lonely old veteran looks back to
the time when bright children clustered around
his knee, and he dwells again in the sunshine
of a happy home.

"But not till time has calmed the rugged breast,
Are these fond dreams of happiness confessed
Not till the raging winds forget to rave
Is heaven's sweet smile reflected on the wave."

	Happy is the world blest with the ceaseless
sunshine of memory. By its aid we may
choose our pathway, and traverse again the
most pleasant walks of life. It is the triumph
over despair—the magic ring that connects and
holds fast all the noble records of a well spent
life.									ZOE.


[Column 1]﻿
LETTERS TO THE CONVENTION.

	The following, among a large number of
letters received, were read in convention.

LETTER FROM MRS. E. C. STANTON.

TOULOUSE, France, Sept. 1, 1882.

To the National Woman's Suffrage Association
	in convention assembled:

	DEAR FRIENDS—People never appreciate
the magnitude and importance of any step in
progress at the time it is taken, nor the full
moral worth of those characters who inspire it,
hence it will be in keeping with the whole his-
tory of reform from the beginning of woman's
enfranchisement if in Nebraska it should to
many minds seem puerile and premature, and
its advocates fanatical and unreasonable.
Nevertheless, the proposition speaks for itself.
A constitutional amendment to crown one half
the people of a great state with all their civil
and political rights, is the most vital question
the citizens of Nebraska have ever been called

[Column 2]
on to consider, and the fact cannot be gain-
sayed that some of the purest and ablest women
America can boast are now in the state advo-
cating the measure.
	For the last two months I have been assisting
my son in the compilation of a work soon to
be published in America, under the title of
"Woman in Europe," in which distinguished
women in different nations have each con-
tributed a sketch of the progress made in their
condition in the various counties. One inter-
esting and significant fact, as shown in this
work is that in the very years we began to
agitate the question of equal rights there was
a simultaneous movement by women for various
privileges, industrial, social, educational, civil
and political, throughout the civilized world.
And this without the slightest concert of action
or knowledge of each other's existence, show-
ing that the time had come in the natural evolu-
tion of the species, in the order of human devel-
opment, for woman to assert her rights and de-
mand the recognition of the feminine element
in all the vital interests of life.
	To battle against the palpable fact in philos-
ophy, and the accumulated facts in achievement
that can be seen on all sides in woman's work
for the last forty years, from slavery to equal-
ity, is as vain as to battle against the law of
gravitation.
	We shall as surely reach the goal we pro-
posed when we started, as that the rich prai-
ries of Nebraska will ere long feed and educate
millions of brave men and women, gathering
there from every nation on the globe.
	Every consideration for the improvement of
your home life, for the morality of your towns
and cities, for the elevation of your schools and
colleges and for the loftiest motives of patriot-
ism, should move you, men of Nebraska, to
vote for this amendment. Gutton in his great
work on Heredity says: "We are in crying
want to a greater fund of ability in all stations
in life, for neither the classes of statesmen,
philosophers, artisans nor laborers, are up to
the modern complexity of their several profes-
sions. An extended civilization like ours com-
prises more interests than the ordinary states-
men, or philosophers of our race are capable of
dealing with, and it exacts more intelligent
work than our ordinary artisans and laborers
are capable of performing. Our race is over-
weighted and appears likely to be drudged into
degeneracy by demands that exceed its powers.
If its average ability were raised a grade or
two, our new classes would conduct the complex
affairs of the state at home and abroad as easily
as our best business men now do their own
private trades and professions. The needs of
centralization communication and culture,
call for more brains and mental stamina than
the average of our race possess."
	Does it need a prophet to tell us where to
begin? Does not the physical and intellectual
condition of the women of a nation decide
capacity and power of the men? If we would
give our sons the help and inspiration of
women's thought and interest in the complex
questions of our generation, we must first give
her the power that political responsibility se-
cures. With the ballot in her own right hand,
she would feel a new sense of dignity, and com-
mand among men a respect they have never
felt before. Nebraska now has the opportunity
of making this grand experiement, of securing
justice, liberty, equality for the first time in
the world's history, to woman, and through her


education and enfranchisement, of lifting man
to that higher plane of thought, where he may
be able wisely to meet all the emergencies of
the period in which he is now called on to act.
Let every man in Nebraska now do his duty
that when the sun goes down on the 8th of No-
vember, the glad news may be sent round the
world, that at last one state in the American
Republic has fully accorded the sacred right of
self government to all her citizens, black and
white, men and women. With sincere hope
for this victory.
		Cordially yours,
			ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
“I have not got over the influenza yet. It
has injured my memory, but it is coming back
to me.  * * *  I seem to have favor in the
eyes of the people, and I hope before my
Father in heaven. It is my meat and my
drink to do his will. * * * *  I hope
soon to get through with the business on
hand.”
 From another letter dated “New York, Sept.
3d.” We learned that they reached there on
the 21st, where they had spent nearly two
weeks—Father had been very sick, and was
quite feeble, and had lost much flesh. He said,
“We intend to leave on the morrow, if the
Lord will, for Boston. Our Conference will
be held there on Saturday and Sunday—when
that is over, I shall make my way home as soon
possible. I shall go down through the state to
see our friends and kindred. I suppose this
will please you, my dear wife, but it will be no
pleasure for me to go through that country
without you; for you and my dear children
circumscribe all other things on earth. The
more I see of the world, the less I care for it.
It is now more than a month since I have had
a line from you. I have written once in eight
or ten days since I left you; but you have more
to press your dear body and mind, and I know
it is a task to get along with your work, and to
see to the children—how I would prize it to be
with you to help bear your burthens. I will
come as soon as possible, so keep up good cour-
age. * * * *
 “I received a letter from Wm. Murray since
I came here—said he should be in Buffalo on
the 1st, day of Sept; on his way to Nauvoo—
They desired me to meet them there, for they
had a seat reserved for me; but I expect they
will get there before I do. If so tell William
he may build on that lot by Sister Pitkins, if
he has a mind to and it will all be right."
	Mother received another letter from him,
written at Boston on the 23d, of Sept. He
wrote, “I have received your kind letter writ-
ten on the first of August. We left New York
on the 4th. On the 6th, Elder B. Young and
myself, went to Salem, and on the 18th re-
turned to Boston—held our Conference on the
9th. Eight of the Twelve were present. What
misery there is in this world; I think we are
the best off of any others that I have seen in
my travels, I long to see you and the children.
I hold you precious in the sight of God, but I
can leave you for the Gospel’s sake, for my
soul is bound up in the cause of Christ. I
wish to seek the kingdom of heaven and its
righteousness, for I want all things added to
me here in this world, so that I can be crowned
in the fulness of glory in the Celestial world.
These I know are your feelings, for you do not
wish me to come behind in any thing that will
exalt us in the kingdom of heaven. I feel as
though we should be united in whatever we
may be lead to do. You have been proven and
tested, for you have been through the fire. I
feel that we are one. I know of none who are
more be than Heber and Vilate.

[Column 2]
	"I hope Sarah is feeling well, and that I
shall find you all well in body and in spirit.
I did think that I would go and see your kin-
dred, but I have changed my mind, and shall
soon return to my family and my brethren and
sisters, whom I love with my whole heart.
“I have been blessed in temporal things
since I came here to Boston—have sold a piece
of land; have got some cash for the Nauvoo
House, and a little for the Temple. It is hard
times to do much. The Saints are coming up
themselves and will fetch their money. Elder
George A. Smith and myself intend to leave
here tomorrow for New York, if the Lord will,
on my way home, will have to stop there one
or two days, then a few days in Philadelphia
and Pittsburg, and also in Cincinnatti. I will
now bid you adieu for a little season.”
They arrived home in safety in the latter
part of October, finding us all well. In the
mean time my Uncle William Murray had ar-
rived, with his family at Nauvoo; which was a
great source of joy to both brother and sister,
whose happiness for a time seemed complete.
He was the only one that ever received the
Gospel on either side, and when the welcome
tidings came, that he had listened to the sound
of the Gospel and obeyed it, my mother could
hardly believe it, and was almost overcome
with joy. Like every true Saint, the moment
he received the true Gospel, he could not con-
tent himself to remain with unbelievers. The
people of God and those of the world are in
opposition to each other. Christ has no fellow-
ship with Belial.
How gross is the darkness that covers the
minds of the people who are fighting against
the principles of salvation. No one actuated
by the Spirit of God would do this or speak
against his servants, but would be attended by
the Holy Ghost, which would give them faith,
and reveal to them the power of God unto sal-
vation; but which without faith, is impossible.
We read that “the just shall live by faith,” and
that “faith without works is dead.” We can
understand the things of God only by the Spirit
and power of God. The revelations of Joseph
Smith can never save others, unless they re-
ceive revelation from heaven, of their truth,
and they must seek for it in order to obtain it.
Those who are too careless and slothful to read
or to “search and believe in me, not in man,”
as Jesus said for, “who leans on him leans on a
broken reed,” will be left as many others have
to stumble even at noon-day. The sorrows and
privations and all the persecutions endured by
the Saints of God are light, when compared
with the punishment of a guilty conscience and
this is the punishment that awaits, not only
those who persecute his people, but the ones
who are too indolent to make inquiries for them-
selves, or to forego the momentary and fleeting
pleasures of to-day, in the vain hope of gaining
a little worldly pomp and praise. Here, we
are as strangers in a strange land, and those
who are too proud or obstinate to look up and
read the directions so plainly written upon the
Guide Board, which has been set by a Father’s
loving hand, that his children may not miss
the track and be lost in the darkness; or refuse
to listen to his servants who are crying, “Come
out of her my people, and be not partakers of
her sins, that ye receive not of her plagues,”
because He in his wisdom has chosen the meek
of the earth who will do his bidding, being
poor and unpopular in the world, renounce
them as imposters, persecute and destroy them,
will see their mistake when too late to retrace
their steps and will have to pass through an-
other probation.
			To be Continued.


Ladies, be sure and attend the Mass Meeting
at the Theatre, Saturday evening, Nov. 4, and
don’t forget to vote on Tuesday, Nov. 7, for the
People's Delegate.


HOMESPUN TALKS TO MRS. SCOTT.

MRS. EMILY SCOTT:
	DEAR MADAM:—Although very little of the
wisdom of Phillip is in my humble pen, I want
to gratify myself by joining those "kind
friends" who have written to you through the
EXPONENT.
	Do you know, (I am going to commence
with a confession ) years ago my mental eyes
were just about as weak, and as easily blurred
as you confess yours to be, by these seeming
dark places in Mormonism.
	You allude to the second chapter of Jacob
in the Book of Mormon. How far did you
read before your feet fell into the mnd ? Just
stopped where I did in my first reading, I've
no doubt, before the closing words of the verse,
viz:
	"For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise
up seed unto me, I will command my people,
otherwise they shall hearken unto these things."
That's just it. Only to raise a righteous and
numerous seed for the fulfilling of his great
latter-day purposes has the Lord God com-
manded plurality of wives.
	Dear lady, your joyous spirits are right and
good to see. But, you must surely know, if
you are so well acquainted with the Scriptures,
that the God of Abraham, of Moses, and of the
Israelites, is a grave Judge dealing out venge-
ance to those,who would destroy his priesthood.
	You cannot quarrel with the great eternal
laws, by which this world is, was and will be.
Christ's passage to his Father's house was one
of cruel suffering.
	To be sure, our faith is a happy one. Shall
I tell you what my faith is to me?
	It is a bright lovely, constant presence.
When I awake, "Oh God," I say "help me to
sew,to sweep, to bake, to clean, to make my fam-
ily cheerful with my words and works; to fill
in and around about, every corner of my little
home with light and peace." When I go to
rest at night God receives my fervent gratitude
for all the joy we have felt.
	But have you not lived long enough to know
sickness, death, wrong, and wickedness are
seeking always to enter our homes, especially
our Mormon homes. What then ? Does not
joyous laughter and the song of birds turn to
pain and quiet woe ? And then it is, our God
gives peace, comfort, and spiritual consolation.
The flowers are not always blooming, the woods
are not always filled with glad melody. But
winter comes with heavy clouds and shrieking
storms. Is your shelter sure ?
	You will pardon me, I am sure if I say to
you frankly, I think you are trying to get the
time honored cart in front of the horse. There
is one thing everyone must do,to know whether
this work is true or false, of God or of man:
Go to God himself and with an earnest child-
like desire for a testimony of its truth. If this
testimony comes, I can not think your eyes
will ever again bedimmed. I asked God that
the testimony of its truth might come to me as
a gentle reasoning voice; That when these
dangerous mud-holes came before me, the light
of clearn reason might shine out, guiding me
safely to the dry land. It came!
	Your faith should not be fastened to texts.
But nailed to every truth, every lovely thought
or word and every happy joyous influence; for
"Mormonism" reaches out and embraces all
these, and in its rays you can bask with delight
as does a child on a bright summer's day.
	You can hardly receive the divine assurance
of the truth of plurality in your soul, although
you might perhaps, see its physiological reason-
ablness, until the preparatory light had flooded
you; and made you full of this Gospel.
	God and your own heart are the only means
by which you can learn the truth of this or any
other religion.
		Yours Sincerely.		HOMESPUN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 83


PATRIOT MOTHERS.

My mother's mother? 'round the hearth
	Gathered her children ten,
Three were fair young daughters,
	Seven were boys and men;
And lovelier than all the rest,
The baby boy upon her breast.

"I'm raising sons for my country."
	Thus answered she with pride,
The guest who smiling viewed
	The groups on either side,
Words filled with meaning, for in her
Martyr and patriot blended were.

Above the wide hearth hung the arms
	By honored grandsires borne,
Upon the great oak table
	The Bible old and worn;
Holding the records of their dead,
And words of God, they daily read.

Upon one side, her name she traced
	Back to that pilgrim band,
Who freedom's altar built,
	on Plymonth's barren sand;
Whence ev'ry creed's free prayer should rise
As mingled incense to the skits.

And on the other—God inspired
	A mighty chief to give
His one child to the faith
	Of Christ, therein to live,
And then in marriage, thus to prove
The Red man's friendship and his love.

Souls of the old world and the new!
	The disciplined, the wild,
Blended, gave to the world
	America's own child,
And an eternal title won
For every daughter, every son.

"Sons for her country." Aye her words
	Prophetic proved to be;
Four sons went forth, and two
	Fell, ere the slaves were free;
Her pride—no less than Spartan brave's—
Though weeping o'er her soliders' graves.

Her own loved country! Yet to-day,
	In Utah's valleys wide,
Her own descendants' claims
	Are (for their faith) denied;
But valid titles won by birth,
Are lasting as our mother earth.

And here are women just as grand,
	As pure, as sweet, and true,
Bearing on in faith a work
	For God and country too,
One to live through life, or die on,
And they'er raising sons for Zion.

Sons for Zion! In that kingdom
	None shall mourn its laws,
Nor the weak and lowly
	Plead in vain their cause;
Then, the mothers' pride will be,
Sons for God and Liberty.

				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHEZON.
S. L. City, Oct. 23d, 1882.


A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
			-----------
		       Continued.
	It is imposible in a sketch of this kind so
briefly written, to bring in all the points one
would like, and make them perfectly clear,
especially in the life of a woman who has in
connection with a large family, and many do-
mestic interests, also occupied public positions
that are rather uncommon for woman, and
would once have been considered incompatible
with domestic felicity. Mrs. Horne has four
sons and six daughters living, of their number
eight are married and have families of their
own; two daughters Mattie and Clara are still
at home; they are both superior girls in many
respects, though differing just enough to make
a wider sphere of usefulness in the home. Miss
Mattie the elder of the two, has a rather peculiar
history for so young a woman. Ever since the
first organization of the Y. L. M. I. A., she has
moved forward as a genuine helper in the work
of mutual improvement and has held several
positions of honor at different times. In June
1879, when a central organization was effected,
consolidating all these Associations, the Pres-
ident of the organization, Mrs. E. S. Taylor
chose Miss Horne for a Counselor, and she
certainly has magnified the office and calling
by diligent and successful labors in the interest
of the young ladies of Zion. She has attended
Conferences in several Stakes of Zion and
spoken before large assemblies, both in the
country towns and in the Conferences held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. There is no
other woman as young as Miss Mattie, who
has taken hold of the work and done so much
public duty, of a religious character; she is a
diligent worker in the Primary Association in
her own Ward and also in the Sunday School,
as well as the Y. L. M. I. A., filling places of
honor and trust.
 When the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was first
published Miss Mattie was the first girl to go
into the printing office and learn the type set-
ting, and as she excels in every pursuit she
undertakes, she has made a complete success of
this useful and suitable employment for girls.
 Miss Clara Horne the youngest of Mrs.
Horne's family is more domestic in her tastes,
and is really the housewife attending not only
to the supervision but the details of household
work, planning and executing systematically.
She is also an accomplished needle-woman and
very gifted spiritually; and an active worker in
the Improvement Associations.
	During the last five years Mrs. Horne has
devoted a large portion of her time, one might
say nearly all, to public service in the interest
of the several organizations, and therefore it is
a great blessing to have daughters so capable
of filling mother’s place in the home. In Pri-
mary meetings and in political conventions
and on committees Mrs. Horne is active and
efficient, so self-possessed that she can speak at
any time in public if called upon, without the
preparation that many women would require.
She was elected a delegate from Salt Lake Co.
to the Territorial Convention held in this City
commencing Oct. 9. And on Thursday even-
ing October 12 being called upou to make a
speech, made her first attempt before a conven-
tion, composed almost entirely of men ( only
one woman delegate besides herself) who were
in the habit of speaking publicly on all sub-
jects. But with her usual determination she
maintained the dignity of her position. We
give a synopsis here, as an item worthy to be
recorded in her history, and it has also a bear-
ing upon the advancement of the women of the
Territory.
		SPEECH OF MRS. HORNE.
	"Mr. President, this is the first time that I
have attempted to address a public assembly of
a political character, therefore you will please
pardon me if I feel a little timidity on this oc-
casion. I believe that women should become
acquainted with political questions as well as
men, because I think they should be intelligent
and acquire knowledge on all subjects that per-
tain to the welfare of the human family; they
are citizens and should learn the duties and
responsibilities of citizens. I am proud and
thankful that we have men in Utah who are so
liberal as to erect a platform high enough and
broad enough for woman to stand upon and
enjoy political privileges, and I do not think
any one is liberal who tries to deprive her of
them.  I am not a native born citizen, but have
been in this country over forty years. I was
driven from my  home with the Saints in Mis-
souri and Illinois. They were driven simply,
because they were Latter-day Saints, and it is
in the same spirit of religious bigotry that at-
tacks are made upon them in other ways at
the present time. Our enemies tell us that we
must not bring religion into our politics. But
I think if we brought more religion into our
politics it would be better for the people; and
if there had been more religion among con-
gressmen and their tenets had been better
cultivated they would not have passed a law
to oppress a religious body of people. I
believe in true liberty for men and women and
do not consider it should be infringed upon by
any one. I think women should be afforded
every opportunity to become intelligent. I am
glad that women are recognized in this con-
vention, and though unjust measures have been
taken to disfranchise many of them, they will
be found on the side of truth and righteousness
and will do all in their power to assist in the
work of freedom. I know the cause in which
we are engaged is right and that in the end it
will come off victorious.”
 Mrs. Horne was one of the Committee ap-
pointed to wait upon the delegate nominated
at the Convention,and inform him of the honor
conferred upon him. She was also chosen a
member of the Territorial Central Committee
of the People's Party.
				To be Continued.


A WORD TO GIRLS.

	All the hope for the dress question, and for
every other that affects the interest, happiness,
and future well being of the sex, lies in the
young women—the good, earnest, conscientious
and thoughtful girls who wish to do their whole
duty, who will do it when they know what it
is, whose feet tread the earth, but whose eyes
are lifted to the stars, hoping for a token of the
work they have to perform. Would that some
angel might appear and show them that hon-
esty, healthfulness, modesty, and suitability in
their dress is the first step in progressive woman-
hood, and that the rest can hardly be taken
without it. It is of little use appealing to older
women in this matter—they are too much en-
grossed, too much in the "swim," care too much
or too little about the subject-to lend themselves
to any determined effort. But the educated, re-
fined girls, who people our high schools and
colleges, who have obtained glimpses of a whole
arena of possibilities closed to their mothers,
and who know that the strength which is spent
in "making over" that which is good, in an-
ious fears regarding the length of sleeves, the
width of skirts, and the size of buttons, cannot
be put into that which will be permanently
healthful and beneficial.
	Wherever there is a community of girls, in
schools, colleges, orelsewhere, they should or-
ganize a Ruskin Society, the special object of
which should be to foster among them some well
defined ideas and sound principles on the sub-
ject of their dress; to discountenance any at-
tempt to revise long skirts for walking pur-
poses; to discharge the obnoxious wire bustle;
to frown down low necks; to get rid of what-
ever is false and artificial; to stimulate the use
of honest fabrics; and to encourage and assist
the development of a true and refined taste.
This is a good work for the bright girls of this
generation to begin upon. Will they do it?
—Jennie June.


A NICE WAY TO COOK CHICKENS.—Cut the
chicken up, and stew until done; make a thick-
ening of cream and flour, adding butter; salt
and pepper to taste; have made and baked a
pair of short cakes—rolled thin; cut in small
squares, and arrange on the dish, pouring
chicken and gravy over while both are hot.
This is much better than chicken pie, and more
simple to make.


84	﻿THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1882.


PLATFORM OF THE PEOPLE'S PARTY.

	The platform approved and adopted by the
Territorial Convention, as a declaration of the
principles of the People’s Party, is,"In our opin-
a very solid and excellent one. We publish it in
full, and advise all women to read and study it
carefully. There is a genuine ring in it, that sa-
vers of true liberty, to man and woman.
	The paragraph on citizenship deserves perhaps
some public expression of views and sentiments
from the women of the Territory. We most
emphatically believe in woman suffrage, and
that all attempts to debar woman from exercis-
ing the franchise are unjust and cruel. More-
over, that denying the suffrage to woman is not
only inconsistent with the institutions of the
country, but places her at a great disadvantage
individually and socially. Whatever robs woman
of endowments to which she might attain,
dwarfs her posterity and consequently deterior-
ates the race of mankind in their onward pro-
gress and advancement. The best education,
now very generally conceded, is a practical edu-
cation, and this will apply to politics as well as
chemistry or any of the sciences.
	The first step towards a political education for
woman is the ballot in her own hands. It is the
opinion of many people that women must first
be educated in the exercise of suffrage beforo
the ballot is given; but why? What education
do boys have, save in exceptional instances, be-
fore they cast their first vote? They hear men
talk politics, and perchance read the newspapers;
so do women hear men talk, and sometimes un-
derstand better than their sons and brothers do;
and they too read the newspapers. But boys
learn more about politics and the ballot when
they begin to exercise the franchise. So will
women.
	The women of this Territory have been re-
ceiving this sort of practical education for twelve
years, and one would naturally think that some
of them had become proficient enough to fill
positions of emolument or trust. Certainly the
women of Utah have been modest and moderate
in their demands for political recognition; but
perhaps a little persistent in asking that the
word male be removed from the statutes of the
Territory, and women thus made eligible to
office. This the “ Liberals” think too much, and
so far the Governor of Utah has refused to put
his signature to a bill-of this kind, though-it
passed both Houses of two successive legisla-
tures.
	This is not all. The “Liberal” Party have
used their utmost liberality to deprive the
women of the Territory of the right of suffrage,
already enjoyed, and in speaking of these attacks,
as “Illiberal and unmanly assaults upon vested
rights and upon justice, equality and the princi-
ple of popular sovereignity,” the People’s Party
have chosen the very mildest language for such
a flagrant act of injustice. The People’s Party
have manifested a desire to give the fulllest lib-
erty to woman, and it is woman’s duty, in our
opinion, to aid by her vote, by her influence,
and by her utmost ability to sustain and main-
tain the vital principles of free government for
“the protection of life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness," and to be able to give an intelligent
and practical interpretation of the word suffrage.
To learn something of the routine es well as the
principles of government. We believe it to be a
woman’s duty to attend local political meetings,
not only, to see how such meetings are conducted,
but to exercise on influence for good in all places
of this kind. Men will be more interested in
attending meetings of this sort if there are
ladies present, and such gatherings will be more
quiet and orderly when women citizens take an
active part in them.
	The principles set forth in the platform below
really recommend themselves to every high-
souled man or woman, and need no comment
whatever.	
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.
	The People's Party, struggling for supremacy
of constitutional law and the sacred privilege of
local self-government, submit the following dec-
laration of principles:
	First. We believe that the protection of life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness is the object
of frco government, and that the Constitution
of the United States was ordained and estab-
lished to secure the greatest possible liberty to
man, woman and child, consistent with the
public welfare.
	Second. We believe that free government
can only exist where the people governed par
ticlpate in the administration thereof.
	Third. We believe that any party or faction
of a political community that seeks to subvert
the institutions of local self-government, aims a
deadly thrust at the Constitution, and that such
party or inction is unworthy the suffrages of a
free people.
	Fourth. We believe that any official who at-
tempts to stifle the popular voice as expressed
at the ballot box is guilty of treason against the
sovereign people.
	Fifth. We believe that the right to frame
laws suited to the requirements of the Territory
having been vested by Congress in the Legisla-
ture elected by its citizens, to deprive them of
that right by substituting a commission, arbi-
trarily appointed, and thus to disfranchise a
hundred and fifty thousand people, and reduce
them to a condition of serfdom, would be un-
precedented in the history of the naticn—an act
that could not be justified by any actual neces-
sity, and that the attempt by a pretended politi-
cal party to create such a revolution in the gov-
ernment of this Territory is worthy only of
conspirators and political adventures.
	Sixth. We believe in the right of the people
of a Territory as well as a State to test, in the
courts established by the government, the con-
stitutionallly or construction of any enactment,
local or congressional, and express our astonish-
ment at the public declaration of a high federal
official of this Territory and the enunciation by
a so-called political party that the people have
no rights except such as Congress may grant to
them, and that to differ with the Territorial ex-
ecutive about the construction of a statue is
nullification. We utterly repudiate such a
monstrous doctrine as worthy alone of the most
absolute despotism, and claim that the United
States Constitution, in its benign provisions, ex-
tends alike over the States and Territories of the
American Union, and that it is the bounden
duty of the Governor as much as the humblest
citizen to yield obedience to the laws as they are
construed by the courts. We utterly repudiate
the unconstitutional attempt by any executive
to usurp Judicial or legislative functions, and to
hold the American citizen bound by the partial
prejudiced, unfair and illegal construction which
he may see fit to place upon any statute.
	Seventh. Citizenship is the basis of the right
of suffrage. While the elective franchise is a privi-
lege conferred by law, the qualifications for its
exercise grow out of the condition of citizenship,
and as citizenship is not dependent upon sex or
regulated thereby, whatever right of voting origi-
nates in the citizenship of men inheres also in
the citizenship of women. Female citizens,
equally with male citizens, are amenable to the
law, therefore they are entitled to an equal voice
with men in the framing of the law. As all
just powers of government are derived from the
consent of the governed, and that consent is
expressed by the suffrage, and as women as well
as men are made subject to the government of
this country, the denial of the suffrage to women
is inconsistent with the principles which under-
lie our national institutions. The moral and in-
tellectual as well as physical excellence of our
sons and daughters being largely dependent upon
the mothers who bear and train them, the
women of the nation should be endowed with
full political freedom, that, being made familiar
with political rights and principles, they may
be able to instill into the hearts of the rising
generation the spirit of patriotism, the love of
liberty and a reverence for republican institu
tions. For twelve years the women citizens of
Utah have enjoyed the right to vote at all elec-
tions in this Territory and have exercised it
with credit to themselves and to the benefit of
the community, and the People’s Party hereby
denounces the attempts which have been made
to deprive women voters of the right of suffrage,
as illiberal and unmanly assaults upon vested
rights and upon justice, equality and the princi-
ple of popular sovereignity.
	Eight. We believe in an honest, and eco-
nomical administration of government, and
point with pride to the economy and honesty
with which public affair have been administered
by officers elected from the ranks of the People's
Party, and also to the fact that the taxes in Utah
are lighter than any in Other Territory, and the
Territory is out of debt; the counties, with one or
two exceptions, are in the same satisfactory con-
dition. The records fail to furnish any instance
of embezzlement or misappropriation of public
funds by any official of that party. On the
other hand, when, by frauds committed at the
polls, Tooele County was wrested from the
popular control, the taxes of the county were
shamefully misappropriated and embezzled;
county scrip depreciated from par to less than
fifteen conts on the dollar, and even by the
economy and honesty of the People's officials,
who haye resumod control of its affairs, and al-
though its paper is now worth ninety per cent.,
Tooele County is not yet quite out of debt and
has not fully recovered from the evils of "Lib-
eral" rule.
	Ninth. We repudiate and deny the charges
of lawlessness which have been made against
the people of Utah, and as proof that these slan-
ders are without foundation, we point to the
records of the courts, the chief of which are
not in any way in the control of the people, and
which demonstrate the striking fact that the so-
called ‘ Liberal” class, constituting less than
twenty per cent. of the population of the Terri-
tory, furnishes over eighty per cent. of the
criminals.
	Tenth. We further repudiate and deny the
charges that in Utah a church dominates the
state; that priestly control is exercised in any
manner to infringe upon, the freedom of the in-
dividual, either at the polls, in convention, or in
any official capacity; that perjury and falsehood
of any kind is justified, whether for the protec-
tion of persons from the action of law or for any


other purpose whatever; that intolerance is ex-
hibited either for the discouragement of emigra-
tion, the settlement of the public domain or in-
vasion of the rights of any individual; that any
unequal taxation is either encouraged or permit-
ted; that public accounts are not given of the
expenditure of public moneys; that the tenets
of a church are taught in the district schools, or
that the people are influenced to disloyalty or
antagonism to the government of the United
States or any of its representatives.
	Eleventh. We affirm that it is the duty of
every American citizen to render obedience to
the Constitution of the United States and every
law enacted in pursuance thereof.
	Twelfth. We affirm with confidence that the
Territory of Utah, having the requisite popula-
tion and exhibiting all the qualifications neces-
sary to self-government, its people being excep-
tionally honest, thrifty, sober, frugal and peace-
able, is entitled to admission into the Union as a
sovereign State.
	Thirteenth. We pledge ourselves as a party
to the maintenance and defence of constitutional
principles and the inalienable rights of mankind
and proclaim ourselves the friends of true liberty
—civil, political and religious, to all people in
every part of the habitable globe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 85


[Column 1]
VISIT TO BYRON'S GRAVE.

	During Whitsuntide, while at Nottingham at-
tending a District meeting, I seized the oppor-
tunity, so long anticipated, of running down to
Hucknall and Newstead—the former the burial
place and the latter the former residence of Lord
Byron. The first is a quaint little village, very
antique in appearance, reminding one forcibly of
the picturesque representations so often seen in
steel engravings of the typical English village.
It was the forenoon of Whit-Monday when I
alighted from the cars, which touch at the sta-
tion on the outskirts of the village, and walked
up the little rustic lane, over the bridge, and
through a winding street into the main part of
the place. Bands wore playing, flags were fly-
ing, and the peasantry were indulging in a gen-
eral jollification. I was an object of curiosity of
course—a stranger in black always is in such
places—and as I walked up the narrow thorough-
fare toward the little church on the hill—"A
gentle hill, green and of mild declivity," I was
pointed at, joked at, laughed at, etc., until I had
fully run the gauntlet. Arriving at the church,
I was pelted with rice by a good-natured mob of
peasants around the doorway, who evidently
mistook me for one of several bridegrooms of as
many couples that were being married inside
the sacred edifice. Awaiting the completion of
the ceremonies, I entered the building and was
shown to the spot where Byron lies, with his
mother and daughter—his only child, Ada—re-
posing on either side. There is no monument
over the remains. It is simply a vault beneath
the surface of a raised flat at one extremity of
the church. Were it not for the single word
"Byron," in brazen letters upon a marble tablet
let into the floor—accompanied by the dates of
his birth and death—you would never know that
you were walking over the silent dust of one of
the most illustrious of poets. On the wall at
the right are beautiful white marble tablets, ap-
propriately inscribed in commemoration of the
dead poet and his daughter, which you have had
described before in the EXPONENT, by the pen
of Sister Hannah T. King. Above Byron's
tablet is a withered bay wreath, hung there
some years since by Joaquin Miller, the poet (by
courtesy called) of the Sierras! Lying near are
partially withered floral offerings from a number
of noble Lords and Ladies who have visited the
Byronic Mecca at various times.

[Column 2]
	The old church is in a half-ruined condition
externally, but the inside is kept in good repair.
Its general aspect would never suggest to the
mind unconscious of its trust the splendid genius
of the author of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage.
As the Mausoleum of a Gray or a Thompson, or
some other more pastoral poet, it would strike
the beholder as very fitting, but not for the final
resting place of a mind whose playthings were
wine cups, thunder storms and battle fields.
But after all, what difference! Death is no re-
spector of persons. He levels all ranks, mingles
the dust of the basest and the best, and "lays
the shepherd's crook beside the scepter."
	Outside the little church at Hucknall, in close
proximity to the Byron vault, grows a plant,
from which I plucked three leaves, one of which
I enclose; as you are poetical in your tastes, and
an admirer of the Byronic school, it may please
you as a book mark.
	At Newstead, which is a village two stations
beyond Hucknall, I was less fortunate in gratify-
ing my curiosity. It being Monday—a day
when, for what reason only an Englishman
could guess, the Abbey is always closed—I was
disappointed in my desire to visit the venerable
and celebrated pile. I could not even enter the
grounds, and as the Abbey is embosomed deeply
in a wooded vale, was obliged to return to Liver-
pool without even a glance at its walls. On
every other day besides Monday visitors are ad-
mitted by certain numbers at a time, free tickets
of admission being furnished by the proprietor
of the hotel recently built near the station.
	The Abbey is not now owned by any of the
Byron family. It is the property of an indi-
vidual who spends his summers on the continent
and gratifies his aristocratic instincts by leaving
orders behind with his even more officious
steward,	*	*	*	that the Abbey
is to be closed on Mondays. when neither love,
money, nor threats of violence are capable of
effecting an entrance. Let all tourists beware!
They say that those who visit the interior of
the place, among other things, are shown the
celebrated skull drinking cup and a plate out of
which the dead poet, in a fit of passion at being
interrupted in a poetical reverie, seized and bit a
piece, leaving the very marks of his teeth in the
solid earthen ware. The skull goblet is a reality,
and its existence an historical fact, but the mu-
tilated plate I am inclined to believe is a Harriet-
Beecher-Stoweism—in other words a libel on the
poet's memory. I have seen some men—they
were always literary men—irritable enough to
attempt such an act of rashness, but have never
met one whose dental formations, even if porce-
lain in nature, were capable of such surprising
results. There is more danger of the plate leav-
ing its mark upon the teeth than vice versa.
Don't you think so? However, they tell the
story, and society is correspondingly happy in
believing it. By the by, I heard some time ago
that the publication of Lady Byron's letters had
effectually put a quietus upon the H. B. Stowe
allegations so shamefully derogatory to the bad-
enough-as-it-is reputation of the immortal bard.
How much truth there was in it I know not.
Well, this is enough on Byron for the present.
								O. F. W.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE 13th Ward Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A.
were re organized Tuesday evening, Oct. 17, by
Bishop Attwood and his Counselors.

	IN company with Mrs. M. I. Horne, we at—
tended the Conference of the Relief Society and
P. A. of Davis Stake, held at East Bountiful Fri-
day, Oct. 20,Will give some details in our next
issue.


Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Z. D. H. Young
left the city Thursday, Oct. 19, and visited
through Juab Stake; attended Conferences in
Nephi, and held meeting attended in their tour
through the Stake by Prest. Teasdale, Elder L.
A. Bailey and Sister Amelia Goldsbrough.
   We had the pleasure of attending the Confer-
ence of the Primary Association of the 20th
Ward Thursday, Oct 19th, but have not space in
this issue to give items in detail. The 12th
Ward Primary had a Fair on he same day,
which was, we are informal, quite a success in
a small way..
 Ladies, vote for the delegate of the People's
Party, the Hon. John T. Caine, who will repre-
sent all the people of the Territory. Those who
have been permitted toregister will certainly
not forget to go to the polls and cast a ballot on
the first Tuesday in November. No one should
excuse herself from this important  duty on
election day. The vote will undoubtedly be the
heaviest one ever cast in Utah, and women will
be largely represented in it.
  Mrs. S. M. Kimball made quite a political
speech in the 14th Ward Assembly Room Sat-
urday, Oct. 21 She gave her opinion of the
duty of the women of Utah in regard to the
"Declaration of Principles" of the People’s
Party; felt something was due from them as a
response to the sentiments therein expressed
towards woman. Thought women thus privi-
ledged had a responsibility resting upon them
which should be taken into consideration.


LETTER FROM ESCALANTE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	We have now closed our subscription to assist
in emigration, aud thought we would mention
what we had accomplished. Our Primary Asso-
ciation donated $31,25. The Young Ladies, with
the assistance of the Young Man's Association,
donated $30.75; making a total of $62. Much
can be accomplished by perseverance, and it is
right for the young to take an active part to
carry on the work of God. Some little boys
twelve years old worked and earned their dona-
tion, and were proud they could assist to gather
the poor Saints. The Primaries are a great help
to the rising generation; through their agency
the principles of our holy religion will be im-
pressed upon the minds of the children, never
to be erased. Our Associations are in good con-
dition. The Primary Association held a Fair
during the summer, which was very creditable;
also a concert. President Mary A. P. Schow
takes great pains to train their voices to sing
their Primary Hymns.
	I often think it is good to have a medium like
the EXPONENT to exchange ideas and to stimu-
late to good works.		JANE S. COLEMAN.
	September 30, 1882.


OBITUARIES.

	Thurza Hatt, aged 56 years, 5 months, 27 days, died
of cholera morbus; after an illness of four days. She
was the daughter of George and Avies Hitchune, and
wife of John Hatt. Born in Auebury Wiltshire, February
13, 1826; died August 10th 1882. She was the mother of
fourteen children, and grandmother of fifteen. Was
baptized in the year 1848; and emigrated to Utah in
1881. She was a kind mother, and a good wife, and was
respected by all who knew her. She endured much trib-
ulation and suffering, and died as she had lived, in the
full faith of a glorious resurrection.
						JANE MILLER, Pres.
						MARGARET SHARP, Sec'y.
20th Ward, Salt Lake City.


Died: At Holden, Millard Co., Utah, Sept. 2d, 1882.
Sarah Hirst Beecroft, daughter of Gideon and Mary
Wolcott Hirst, and wife of Joseph Beecroft.
Deceased was born August 5th, 1813, In St.Gilesparish
Middesex, London England. Married Joseph Beecroft
Oct 14th 1832. Joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints Oct. 7th, 1843. Came with the Saints
to Des Moines, Iowa, in 1856; there her husband was
taken very sick, and they were compelled to remain un-
til 1859, when they came to the valley.
She was the mother of seven children three of whom
are now living, she has fifteen grandchildren, and six
great grandchildren.
 She died as she had lived a faithful and consistent
Latter-day Saint. She has been an energetic member of
the Relief Society since its organization in this Ward,
and was always on hand to respond to every call that
was made of her. She was a most devoted wife and
mother, and her aged husband greatly mourns her loss. 
							Pauline Larson. 
				------------
  Died: Sept. 18,1882, in Beaver Utah, of consumption. 
Mrs. Parinthia O. T. Oakden. She had been for some
years a widow, and had also buried seven children. One
son 18 years old lives to mourn her loss, also a host of
relatives and friends. During her illness which was lin-
gering and painful, she was often administered to
by the Elders, thus her sufferings alleviated and her
heart comforted. She was patient and fall of faith in
God and the prayers of his people. She fell asleep at
last without a struggle or a groan, and has gone behind
the vail to join her husband and children, to await the
resurrection of the just. Deceased was the daughter of
Daniel and Ruth W. Tyler, and was born June 4,1839,
after the expulsion of the Saints from Mo. and has
shared the persecutions, the joys and sorrows, of the
Saints ever since, never expressing a doubt or fear.
With her husband she received the ordinances and bless-
ings necessary to secure an eternal union of their family
hereafter. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord
henceforth. Yea, saith the spirit that they may rest from
their labors; and their works do follow them.
									COM.--
				  ---------
   DIED: At West Jordan Utah, Sept. 21st, 1882. Sister
Betsy Poulson Malstrom; Born May 23d. 1861. She was
the loved wife of John Malstrom, a faithful and devoted
wife and was the only child of her parents. Was a
member of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. Association,
and was faithful In the discharge of every duty. she
had been married about three years, she had but one
child, and It survived its mother but a few hours and its
body was lain in its mother’s arms for burial.
   Sister Malstrom has been taken from us in the midst
of a life of usefulness and will not soon be forgotten.
We deeply sympathize with her husband, and aged par-
ents in their great sorrow. “May she rest in peace” till
the morning of the resurrection, when she will again
join her loved ones where there will be no more sorrow
nor parting.	 DELILA GARDNER.
 Died: At Koosharem, Plute Co. Oct. 1st, 1882. Char-
lotta Enholm, born Sweeden Dec. 26th 1857. Wife of
John Enholm and only daughter of Gustave and Marie
Brandt.
   She embraced the Gosple in her youth in Sweden, left
her parents, and emigrated to Utah in 1872. She leaves
a husband and two children, the youngest just four weeks 
old, and father, mother, brother and many friends to 
mourn her loss, She was a noble and affectionate sister
and a useful member in the place. She filled the office 
of President of the Primary Association, and Treasurer
for the R.S., and she has faithfully preformed her duties
until our Heavenly father was pleased to call her to a 
higher sphere. May our Heavenly Father comfort the 
husband and parents, and those that mourn her loss. 
She was ill only 12 days, and the sisters of the Relief
Society during her sickness assisted her faithfully. The 
funeral services were well attended; the children of the 
Primary Association followed her to the grave, and 
sang a parting Hymn, as a token of farewell to their be-
loved President who had given them so many good in-
structions. 
MARGRETTE ANDERSEN, Pres. R. S. 
MATHILDA JARGENSEN, Coun., P. A.
					---------
   Died: In Payson, on Sunday morning, Oc. 8, 1882, of
scarletfever, Harry Butler, son of James and Jane But-
ler, aged 10 years.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,
Whereas, God in his all wise providence, has seen pro-
per to call from our midst, to a higher sphere, one of our 
members who was grealty beloved by us all, for his 
kind and gentle spirit, his faithfulness and diligence in
our society, and many other good qualities which he
possessed, and for the love and respect we have for him 
and for his parents and friends. 
Therefore, be it resolved, that we the members of the
 Primary Association do deeply mourn the loss of on
beloved brother, and we condole with his parents an
friends in their great loss. Yet intermingled with the 
joy of meeting him in a glorious resurrection. And, 
  Be it resolved, that we present a copy of these resolu-
tions to his parents, and publish the same in the WOM-
AN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on record.
HYRUM REESE, 
MATTIE SARGENT>. 
Committee.


86	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	Minutes of the Young Ladies’ Conference,
held in the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City,
Sept. 23, 1882. Singing. Prayer. Singing.
Minutes of previous Conference read and ap-
proved; also reports. Sister Freeze was pleased
with the reports, but would like to have more
of the country wards represented. Pleased to
hear the testimonies that were borne, for she
believed with Sister Snow, testimony to be the
foundation of spiritual, improvement.
	The following resolutions of respect to the
memory of Counselor Clara Conrad, were read
by Coun. Louie Felt, and were unanimously ad-
opted by the Conference.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

To the late Counselor Clara Young Conrad:
	Whereas, at the close of a short but beauti-
ful and exemplary life, devoted to the faithful
performance of her duties as wife, mother, friend
and Counselor to the President of the Salt
Lake Stake Association of Young Ladies, and
as a bright and shining star among her sex,
Clara Young Conrad has been removed from
our midst; and,
	Whereas, When such a life is ended, it be-
comes those who have been associated with,
and have enjoyed and profited by her labors,
to give expression to their sense of the great
loss they have sustained. Therefore,
	Resolved, That we the members of this As-
sociation, appreciating her noble and generous
character, her unselfish devotion and ever cheer-
ful willingness to contribute all in her power
to the elevation and redemption of her sex, and
believing that her best eulogy and most lasting
monument will be found in the record of her
life, here add our tribute to her memory, our
acceptance of the value of her example, and
our pride that her name and labors have a place
in the records of our Association, tendering to
her family and friends, our most heartfelt
sympathy in their grief.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be a part
of our minutes, and be placed on record for the
benefit of the present and future generations.
					LOUIE B. FELT.
					ROMANIA B. PRATT,
			Committee on Resolutions.
	Sarah M.Kimball was pleased with the resolu-
tions, and bore testimony to the purity of heart,
nobility of soul, and the exemplary and useful
life of Sister Conrad. Could testify that all
who came into her presence felt the sweet and
peaceful influence of the Spirit of God which
ever accompanied her. Had often heard her
say that the great desire of her heart was that
she might enjoy better health, so she could be
more useful, as that was her constant desire.
Did not feel that the occasion was a sorrowful
one, for Sister Conrad had long been a sufferer;
and when the noble and good pass away, hav-
ing finished the work assigned them in this
probation, there is little cause to mourn.
Urged the Young Ladies to imitate the good
and useful life of Sister Conrad, for her ex-
ample was worthy of imitation. Spoke of the

[Column 2]
comfort and hope the Gospel gave, and the nec-
essity of our living so as to gain the love, re-
spect and confidence of our fellow creatures,
that when we pass away our memory may live
forever in the hearts of our friends.
	Coun. Louie Felt was pleased to meet with
those who were trying to do good and keep the
commandments of God. Was sorrowful to part
with our beloved Sister Conrad, but she had
gone from suffering and all was well with her.
We should strive to follow her example, and
become useful members in the Church and
kingdom of God. Urged the sisters to be more
charitable and united in their feelings, that
they might enjoy a greater portion of the Spirit
of God. Made other instructive and interest-
ing remarks.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith having been out of
the city, had not attended Conference for some
time, was dissapointed to see so few present,
had attended eleven meetings while away and
the houses were filled to overflowing. Gave a
short account of the meetings, how they were
conducted, some holding conjoint meetings
which as a general thing she objected to but
under some circumstances it was perfectly right.
Was anxious our Young Ladies should realize
the responsibilities devolving upon them, hav-
ing a great work to accomplish by their in-
fluence in the society of to-day, the reformatien
they might accomplish in giving aid to those
having acquired injurious habits, setting their
heads on assisting in carrying on the purposes of
God. We are on the verge of a great change,
it is necessary for the young as well as the old
to be preparing for it and have a knowledge of
the Gospel. Seek first the kingdom of God
and all else shall be added, is promised; we
have been reserved to come forth to fulfill a
mission, and every day’s work is necessary for
us to fulfill it. Who needs the spirit and
education more than our young mothers, it
should be their prompter, they should be the
noblest women in the world, being prepared to
meet kings and queens, not on inferior grounds,
but seek inspiration and the spirit of God that
we may represent a pattern of heavenly things.
Felt anxiety for our young sisters, and a desire
to reach after them. It is the tried and faith-
ful that shall inherit all things.
	Sister Snow, of St. George, could say Amen
to the instructions given this afternoon, was
pleased to meet with the Saints, and desired to
be with us in the work of God. If we could
realize the mission our Father has sent us here
to do in assisting to build up his kingdom, we
would have no idle time to spare, but seek
to improve all our talents not being dilatory
in any duty required of us, it is by living for
blessings that we obtain them. Gave some ex-
cellent instructions to the young ladies and
mothers. If we had power to throw our arms
around our young and shield them from evil,
and by our influence draw them unto us, and
try to save souls, and discharge our duty faith-
fully the Lord will help us if our desire is from
the heart, living humbly and faithfully will be
a shield from the trials and persecutions.
Prayed God to unite us together that we may
live acceptable lives.
	President Freeze asked the sisters present to
teach to others the instructions given to-day.
	Many young ladies in our midst if we could
get them so as to have the Spirit of God work
on them, would become useful members, and
desired the sisters to invite all the young
ladies to attend their meetings and it would
reach that class. Had visited several wards
since last Conference; many were in a pros-
perous condition that were not reported. Felt
thankful for Sister Snow’s presence and in-
structions, hoped she would continue to warn
and instruct the young, as long as she had
strength.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction.


[Column 1]
UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 18th Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Societies of Utah County held in
Provo City, Sept. 1st, 1882. Present on the
stand, President Margaret T. Smoot, and Coun-
selors, Secy., &c., and Sister Elmina S. Taylor,
from Salt Lake City. A few brethren of the
Priesthood were also present. Conference
opened by the usual exercises.
	Sister Smoot said, my heart is filled with
gratitude that we are permitted to meet once
more in the house of the Lord. Our reports
are of great importance and magnitude and are
made by the handmaidens of the Lord. The
minutes of our last meeting are good, and
should stimulate us to renewed energy in good
works; let us confide in the Lord, and bid de-
fiance to all who are not of him. It is an oc-
casion of rejoicing with us to-day, for we have
Sister Margaret A. Cluff with us, after an
absence of over three years. And while we
rejoice let us pray for those that are still labor-
ing in the vineyard outside Zion's borders.
Sister Mary John spoke a few words, felt
thankful that Sister Cluff was with us again,
and said she would tell us something of her
mission.
	The several Presidents of the County were
called upon to give verbal reports of the Socie-
ties over which they presided, to which they
responded, speaking in terms of praise of the
unity, and good works of the sisters that
regularly attended their meetings, but all
agreed in speaking of the faithful few whose
familiar faces greeted them at each successive
meeting. Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
Prayer by Sister Elmina Taylor.
	This afternoon session, was taken up by
the Silk Association, in order to give the
sisters, that were obliged to go home on the
afternoon train, an opportunity to see the pro-
gress that was being made in reeling silk, and
also learn the steps that were being taken to-
wards weaving the same. There was quite a
display of reeled silk on exhibition.
	The Relief Society resuming their Con-
ference, Sister E. Taylor spoke at some length
in the interests of the Deseret Hospital, its ob-
jects and aims; giving the sisters instructions
concerning their donations, and on other im-
portant subjects, etc., etc.
	Sister Margaret A. Cluff followed with some
very interesting remarks, concerning her mis-
sion to the Sandwich Islands of over three years.
Spoke of her pleasure at being permitted to
meet again with the Saints, after such a lengthy
absence. Gave an interesting account of her
journey to the Islands, and her reception by
the natives, and others, many of them ac-
quaintances made while on a former mission,
of five years duration. While there she was
appointed to preside over the Relief Societies
in all the Islands, where they were organized.
Her position was an arduous one, traveling
from island to island; and her health never
very good. The people were a good people,
easily governed, and never tired of hearing of
Zion and the people of God. The speaker
could not help feeling attached to them. They
had contributed and sent two hundred dollars
to help build the Salt Lake Temple. Spoke
quite lengthy but, our space will not permit
giving more.
	The choir sang (in honor of the return of
Sister Cluff) the hymn beginning "Midst scenes
of confusion and creature complaints." Bishop
Johnson made a few very appropriate remarks,
followed by Mother Duke and others. Pres.
M. T. Smoot said, our time has been well spent,
but let us not leave any duty undone. I pray
that the Lord may spare our lives to meet again
and again. After singing and prayer, Confer-
ence adjourned for three months. The follow-
ing is our Statistical and Financial reports for
six months:

[Column 2]
	Members, 2091; teachers, 335; meetings held
261; average attendance, 883; church papers
taken, 399; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 156. Pro-
perty on hand at last report, $7,334. 15; re-
ceipts for six months, $1,018.03; disbursements,
$951.66; to poor, $584.39; Hospital, $39.00; sun-
dry disbursements, $49.95; buildings, $24.75;
missionary, $22.40; books, $6.35; home industries
$52.32; temple $62.00; emigration $112.50. Pro-
perty on hand $7095.24. Cash on hand $305.28.
Wheat on hand 2,623 bushels, 40 lbs,
				CAROLINE DANIELS. Sec'y,

PLEASANT VALLEY.

	Our little branch is progressing in the good
work. A little over a year ago there were no
religious meetings here, and drinking prevailed
extensively. Through the energy of a few
noble minded men, liquor has been almost
banished, and a branch organized which is
presided over by David Williams, a man of
firm principle and great energy. He with his
Counselors are doing all to advance the people.
Many quorums and societies have been organ-
ized, among which is the Relief Society, which
was organized August 6th 1882. President
Williams spoke of the necessity of having a
Relief Society; and said, he would like Sister
S. M. Kimball to give them some instructions
in regard to the organization of one.
	Sister Kimball made some excellent
remarks, giving the object of the Relief
Society. The sisters, suggested Sister Sarah
Williams as President, a motion was made
to that effect and Sister Williams was
unanimously sustained. She chose as her
First Counselor, Sister Lizzie Gillispie.
The choosing of the Second Counselor, was
defered until Sister Williams had time to con-
sider, Sister Tillie Bliss, was chosen as Secre-
tary; and Sister Martha Gillispie as Treasurer.
All were unanimously sustained. At a meet-
ing of the sisters afterwards, Sister Ann Thomas
was chosen as Second Counselor.
	We have held 4 regular meetings and 5 sew-
ing meetings. Have made and quilted one
quilt; and another one is ready to put on the
frames. A good spirit prevails in our meetings
and all are endeavoring to carry out the in-
structions of Sister Kimball.
					TILLIE BLISS, Sec'y.
	Sept. 26, 1882.

PLEASANT VALLEY PRIMARY.

	President David Williams assisted by his
Counselors, organized the children of this
branch into a Primary Association on the 3d,
of Sept. President Williams called upon Sis-
ter Tillie Bliss to give some instructions regard-
ing the object and character of Primary Asso-
ciations; which she did in a very interesting
and able manner. Counselor Robert Gillispie
proposed Sister Tillie Bliss as President of the
Association, who was unanimously sustained.
She chose as her Counselors, Sister Martha
Gillispie and Sister Mary Ann Lewis. Miss
Annie Eden as Treasurer, and Miss Martha
Reese Secretary. All of whom were unami-
mously sustained. President Williams then
made some very excellent remarks to the par-
ents, desiring them to take an interest in the
Association and send their children as he knew
they would be benefited by so doing. Counselor
Robert Gillispie followed urging the necessity
of education our little ones in the principles of
the Gospel. Thought the President had taken
a very wise step in organizing the children.
Thought they had made a very wise selection
in appointing Sister Bliss President, as she had
had considerable experience with children
understanding their different dispositions etc.
					MARTHA REESE, Sec'y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADY SPEAKERS AT OMAHA. 

	Miss Phebe Couzens, a St. Louis lawyer, hav-
ing been favorably spoken of as one of the
Utah Commissioners, perhaps it would not be
amiss to mention her first among the Suffrage
ladies. She may come to Utah yet, we should
certainly be very glad to see her; and we hold 
it would have been eminently proper to have
appointed at least two women on that commis-
sion, as the question is one involving the in-
terest and happiness of many thousands of
women, who would prefer to be represented by a
woman, to the general government. But that
is not considered by those in power; women
must abide the judgment of men in this matter,
in fact we have never yet heard of the Utah
Commissioners hearing directly from any
“Mormon” woman on what is most intensely
her own subject.
	Miss Couzens is tall and slender has dark
hair and eyes, and arched eyebrows a very
pleasant face and most amiable manner. She
is thoroughly in earnest in whatever she un-
dertakes and is one of the few young women
who have taken the platform to speak for
woman suffrage. She has been working in
that interest now ten years, and is not at all
discouraged. She is staying in Nebraska help-
ing in her vigorous way to carry on the cam-
paign, previous to the election there in Novem-
ber, when the people of that state are to vote
on the amendment giving woman political
equality. Miss Couzens has very good taste in
dress, but one never thinks of what she wears,
in conversation with her, or hearing her from
the platform. Two of her lectures are entitled
“Woman and her Country” and “Eve.” She
treats all her subjects in a masterly manner.
Her voice though not loud is clear, her pronun-
ciation distinct, her sentences all well rounded
and effectively enunciated, and her arguments
are strong and forcible. In short the lady is
very lovable as well as intelligent, educated,
interesting and womanly, none more so. She
is free from prejudice against the “Mormons,”
and believes in the rights of women, even
“Mormon” women.
	May Wright Sewall is another young lady,
though, unlike Phebe, has a husband. She has
been finely educated, and is at present princi-
pal of the young ladies’ department of her
husband’s Classical School in Indianapolis
Ind.
	She has a fine commanding presence, though
not tall, and makes an excellent Chairman of
Executive Committee. Her voice is musical
and very rich, and she is a natural orator. Her
command of language is good and she speaks
more eztempore than most of the lady lecturers.
She is a woman who impresses one as being
genuine and whole-souled; and who feels deeply
and strongly, and whose heart is keenly alive
to the sorrows of humanity. One to whom it
would be safe to go for sympathy in the hour
of trouble.
 We might go on enumerating these superior
women, who are leading the great movement
for  universal suffrage but it would take vol-
umes. Therefore we advise those who are de-
sirous of knowing concerning the women of
America, who have been engaged in this strug-
gle for equality of sex in public, to buy “The
History of Woman Suffrage” and they will get
it all. The best speakers were, in addition to
those mentioned, Mrs. E. L. Saxon, of Louis-
iana, Mrs. Eveleen Mason, Mrs. M. M. Bones Miss
Matilda Hindman of Penn. The last men-
tioned was one of the number who battled against
the suffrage boing taken from the women of
Utah, in the Congress of the United States a
few years ago, and is therefore entitled to the
gratitude of the people of this Territory.
Mrs. Clara Bewick Colby, of Beatrice, Neb.,
was Chairman of the local Committee at
Omaha, and had charge of all arrangements.


for the Convention, and through her excellent
and diligent management made it a grand and
positive success. Her duties were arduous and
she discharged them faithfully. Several of the
best speakers are still in the field assisting the-
ladies of Nebraska in carrying the state for
the Suffrage Amendment. Among these Susan
B. Anthony, Phebe Couzens, Matilda M. Hind-
man, Elizabeth Lisle Saxon, Virginia L. Minor,
Madame Clara Neyman, a German lady but
a resident of New York City for some years.
She is one of the brightest and one of the most
pleasing of the speakers, though her speeches
are all written ones, which always detracts a
little from the force and power of the speaker
over the audience. Mrs. Helen M. Gougar
editor of "Our Herald" is the great favorite
with a very large class; she is apt and witty, a
fine figure, and seems capable physically of do-
ing any amount of brain work; yet she is pale
and slender, but there is sometheng in her
manner and in her atmosphere that is exhilar-
ating. She dresses a little more stylish for the
platform than many of the other ladies. Miss
Rachel G. Foster of Philadelphia, Cor. Sec.,
for the N. W. S. A., is quite a remarkable
young lady. She is tall and delicate looking
exquisitily perfect in dress, and genteel in
manner, is a writer of some note, has written
a play or two as well as some other good whole-
some articles, and she is Miss Anthony’s right
hand woman in the present campaign, having
her head quarters at Omaha. Miss Anthony
is so well-known to the public, she needs no
comment here, except to say she looks and
appears as young as she did four years ago
and is doing as much work or even more if it
were possible. Mrs. Elizabeth L. Saxon of
Louisiana, expects to visit Utah as soon as the
election is over in Neb., and those who wish
will have an opportunity of hearing her for
themselves. She is an agreeable and powerful
lecturer and a most able worker in woman's
cause.						E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM SUNSET.

	SUNSET, Apache Co., Arizona,
				October 1st, 1882.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Socity of Sunset, Arizona, was
organized on the 2d of September, 1880, and 
since its organization has been the means of
doing  a great deal of good in helping the
needy, relieving the suffering, and comforting
and consoling the distressed; under the able
management of our esteemed president, Sister
Malinda Porter, who has truly been an exam-
ple to the members by her industry, energy
perserverance, charitable and forbearing dis-
position; we have been very successful in our
labors spiritually and partly temporally; al-
though, as you are no doubt aware, we are
endeavoring to live in the United Order, as a
settlement, and the means we may accumulate
from time to time, goes into the treasury of
the Order.  Our regular meetings which are
held the first Thursday in every month are
well attended, as also our work meetings, where
the sisters work up clothing for those who can-
not make it themselves; and the sisters are
enjoying a goodly portion of the spirit of their
religion.  Our society has teachers who visit
the members at their homes once a month.
	We are located in this far distant land
where, until within the last year, we have been,
comparatively speaking, free from the boasted
civilization of the 19th century, and as yet
through the organization we possess as a United
Order Company, and manner of living, those
who would teach our young folks to blaspheme
and speak lightly of sacred principles, have
found no place among us or introduced the
foolish fashions of the world.  I have lived in 
this place for nearly four years, and during
that time do not remember of having heard an
oath taken by one of our own community.
Strangers who visit us frequently use this foul
and unbecoming language, but they do not
seem to think the place a congenial one for
them, as they make their visits but brief.
	We have taken up with the old fashioned
mode of sending our wool after washing it to 
the carder, and getting it back in the shape of
rolls, which we spin and manufacture into
cloth by hand looms, and have been enabled
to clothe ourselves, husbands and children
partly in homespun. Indeed we have suffi-
cient labor to perform, in assisting our breth-
ren to reclaim the desert, make beautiful the
sterile soil, and make homes in this forsaken
land (I say forsaken, because many have been
here and left for other places. I presume that
not one twentieth of those who have been liv-
ing here remain to-day), to keep us very busy
if properly attended to, so that we would
hardly have time to do justice to the often
talked of subject among our sisters, that of
backbiting.
	We hope through the grace of our Lord and
Savior, to have power in due time to overcome
the weakness of the flesh, that we are so prone
to, and be one with the rest of our sisters of
Zion, in helping to promote the principles of
truth and righteousness in the land, and to
assist our brethren intheir work of the re-
demption of the human family from sin and
degredation.
	We as sisters, are not troubled in this land
with any commissioners or registration officers,
with their pious marriage relation oaths, as
woman's suffrage has not been extended to the
ladies of this Territory.
	Ever desiring that the daughters of Zion
may be firm and valiant in assisting to forward
the purposes of Jehovah, and that the EX-
PONENT may continue to be a faithful mon-
itor, in reminding them of their duties, and
that its publication may be crowned with suc-
cess,
	I am your devoted sister in the cause of
truth, 			EMMA W. NEILSON,
				Secretary.


PRETTY MOTHERS.

	When Lydia Newman's old Quaker uncle
saw that she had fastened her pretty little
Newport ties with poppy-red ribbons, he
frowned, and told her it was not seemly.
But Lydia laughed. "I don't care for them
myself," she said, "but I want my little boy to
remember that his mother wore red bows on
her shoes." Who does not remember the
pretty things that "mother" wore! Her dainty
laces, the pale lilac dresses, the rose tucked un-
der the lace on her breast, seem half divine
when they become but memories to us.
"Mother is "mother" be she gentle or rough,
but what a different ideal we have when we re-
call how proud we were when we brought our
friends home from school and rather surprised
them with her graceful, pretty ways. Her
hair was so soft, her eyes so tender, she talked
so well, and knew how to make a boy feel at
home. It was not necessary to make excuses
for her and say she was so busy. The other
boys themselves praised her, and we felt sorry
for them because we knew how much sweeter
and prettier she was than their mothers could
be. It is wise for a mother to take time to
dress and be fair in her children's eyes; to read
for their sake, to learn to talk well and to live
in to-day. The circle the mother draws around
her is more wholesome for the child than the one
he has to make for himself, and she is respon-
sible for his social surroundings. It is not easy
to be the child's most interesting companion,
to make home his strongest magnet, but the
mothers who have done this have been the
mothers of good men.—Our Continent.


KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks. Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms,
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

CLASS IN OBSTETRICS,
BY special request of MRS. E. R. SNOW SMITH,
Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence her class in Obstetrics, November 1st,
1882, in her office over Godbe & Pitts' Drug Store. Lec-
tures, three per week for five months. During the course,
Drs. Anderson and Benedict will each deliver six prac-
tical lectures. Fee for course, $30.00; former stu-
dents, $20.00; books (3), $12.00, Manikin, skeleton, in-
struments and plates for illustration. Please send or-
ders for books early, as they have to be ordered from
the East. Lectures Commence at 3 p. m.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Bating,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1882.									No. 12.


THE LADY PHYSICIAN.
			SENT TO DR. R. B. PRATT.

Oh, who is this, who casts her rose of youth

	Beneath the feet of pain, nor fancieth
The lily of her ladyhood, in sooth,
	Too white to bloom beside tha couch of death?

It is the woman healer here who stands
	With tender touch upon the cruel knife;
With thorough graven brows and skillful hands,
	And yearning heart to save the house of life.

Bless her, O women, for it was your call,
	It was the myriad cry of your distress,
That urged her outward from the cloistered hall
	To make the burden of your anguish less.

Shine on her, stars, while forth she goes alone
	Beneath the night, by angel pity led;
And shed such luster as your rays have thrown
	On bridal steps that chime with lover’s tread.

Her pathway scent, O flowers that fleck the field,
	As from her hurrying feet the dews are driven,
With no less fragrance than your clusters yield
	By dimpled hands to happy mothers given.

And ye, O men who watch her toilsome days
	With doubtful lip in half dernsion'curled,
Scant not her meed of courtesies and praise,
	The bloom and starlight of the spirit world.

For with a sense of loss too fine to own,
	The nestward longing of the carrier dove,
She turneth from her first, entitled throne,
	And all the household walks that women love.

The gracious ministers of little deeds
	And service for the few, by love made sweet;
From these she turneth unto wider needs,
	And pours her ointment on the stranger’s feet.

Perchance, amid the clash of busy days,
	She may lay by a trick or two of charms,
May miss of those caressing, dainty ways
	That women learn from babies in their arms.

But even while the battle scars her face,
	And makes her voice stern on the combat rude,
She but refines her best, peculiar grace,
	And proves her self-forgetful womanhood.
					KATHARINE LEE BATES.
From the Boston Transcript.


[COLUMN 1]
MEMORY THE CURSE OR BLESSING
			OF EXISTENCE.
			BY HANNAH T. KING.
	November the fourth, 1882. Evening—as
usual I am alone, and yet, not by any means
alone, or lonely; my brain is all alive with a
vision of the PAST, memory by her mystical
power draws back with soft and gentle hand
a curtain, and a marvelous panorama opens to
my view.  I behold a river, yes the classic
waters of the Cam roll at my feet; a group
of kind and watchful friends are around
me not the friends of my youth, not my
blood relations, no, they are away; afar
off in every sense of the word; they are not
cognizant of the step I am about to take.
'Twould have been vain to apprize them,
they would not have condescended even to
listen to me; so after mature reflection, I decide
to take the step that I feel will revolutionize
my life.
	Alone! Yet no, not all alone, one loving,
clinging spirit—“bone of my bone and flesh of
my flesh,” and far more still, twin spirit of
my soul, holds my hand and whispers, “let me
go with you, I desire with all my heart to go
[COLUMN 2]
with you ? I knew that request was not made
“lightly, or unadvisedly,” and at that awfully
grand moment of my life, when about to
pass into the womb of waters it felt so sweet to
have something of my own, on which to press
even a finger, that I assented and we two
entered the waters of baptism together.  This
is the scene that memory holds up to me this
night; and all is as vivid to my mind, as when
it actually took place.  Every word, every
look,the whole scene is as it were photographed
upon my heart and brain, never to be erased.
	An American Elder administered the rite of
baptism by immersion, we were verily buried
in the liquid grave, and came forth most cer-
tainly to a new life, temporally, spiritually and
eternally!  Then appeared the Holocaust,
but strength was given, the sacrifice was laid
upon the altar!  and the ordeal was passed!
Thirty-two years this day have revolved over
me since these scenes were enacted, during
which I have passed the “changes and chances”
that inevitably follow:  dark days, privations,
bereavements, sickness almost unto death, and
all the ordeals that a true Latter-day Saint has
to pass through.  Yet I have never seen the
first moment, that I regretted the step I then
took or wished that I could recall the act, or go
back to my former state or associations. My
former life had decidedly been a happy and a
prosperous one, yet through all there was a
vacuum, but through all the reverse of scenes
described above, I have never felt a vacuum!
even when I could not help suffering under
reverses, still there was no sigh, no groan of
regret, or the least desire to return.  The
language of my soul was on!  on!  there is sun-
shine behind this cloud.  I felt a power sus-
taining me, softening the rough path to me,
raising up friends to comfort and support me,
even to a romance; I met them on the ship, on
the steamer, in the encampments, crossing the
wild prairies, met them in the city, they walked
and talked with me, comforted and invigorated
my weakened system, and were to me as “An
angel in the way.” If one was taken, another
came to supply the vacant place, and so life
progressed till like a child learning to walk,—
I walked out of "“leading strings,” and felt I
could stand alone with my God!  Death took
some of the most efficient, but I grasped “the
rod of iron,” and found I was “coming up from
the wilderness leaning on the arm of the
Beloved.” Him, whose name I took upon me
at the waters of baptism, and hence all was
well—is well to-day.  The kind and loving
voices of other days are away in the eternities;
but still kind friends are around me; and I am
happy and contented.  I have grown out of
babyhood, childhood, and youth, and have at-
tained a degree of maturity, being thirty-
two years old at six o’clock this evening
in the Church of Jesus Christ, and the
embryo kingdom of God upon the earth.
I rejoice in this grand Latter-day work,
when “all things shall be gathered in
one.” “One Lord, one faith, one baptism.”
The Lord said, “gather me together a people
who have made a covenant with me,
by sacrifice.” Yes, sacrifice is the sign of the
covenant, but “the oil of gladness” is ever
round, and about the altar—and the Spirit of
the living God sustains and animates the votary
of Latter-days. There is through all, a peace,
joy, a satisfaction that the religions of the
world cannot give, or their recipients enjoy.
Many that have come into the Church poor, 
h
"ave become rich, but if they still retain their
"first love” of the Gospel of Christ, they would
lay all down as dust on the balance, if such
became an impediment in their path to the
eternal riches promised the faithful, faithful
even unto the end—even unto death.
	This is my testimony living or dying.  This
is the language of my heart, and brain.  I
have tried to be an apt pupil in the school of the
Lord, for verily “Mormonism” is the school
of the Lord, in which all are prepared for that
higher school, into which all will be received
who can present credentials that will procure
for them the higher forms of the House of
God, which is eternal in the Heavens.
	Let us as Latter-day Saints, walk cautiously,
quietly, calmly, with our eyes lifted up above
the riches of the earth, which perish even in
the using; that when the summons arrives for
our departure, we may feel ready, and the
voice of our heart exclaim Gloria in Excelsia
Dei.


ECONOMY IN THE HOME.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Perhaps some of the wives who read your
paper are sometimes puzzled to know what to
get to eat and will be glad to hear others tell
what their husbands like. My husband likes
pancakes, but would not get them often now,
when eggs are twenty-five cents per dozen, if
my neighbor had not given me the recipe for
what she calls the "Hard-time pancakes." I
tried her plan of beating up thoroughly to-
gether flour, salt, buttermilk and soda, into a
batter thin enough to pour, and fried quickly
with plenty of lard, it makes a delicious dish
for breakfast, and will answer occasionally as a
substitute for meat; By "plenty of lard" I
do not mean that one should use as much as is
used to fry crullers or fritters, especially now
when lard is seventeen cents per lb., but have
the griddle or skillet well greased.
	My husband is also very fond of Chili Sauce
which I make by chopping up fine, four large
onions, twelve large ripe tomatoes, three red
peppers; adding then salt, three teaspoonfuls
each of ginger, whole cloves and ground cinna-
mon, seven tablespoonfuls of sugar, and three
teacupfuls of vinegar, boiling all together for
an hour and seal up hot.
	I read in your paper, a very interesting ar-
tickle, some time ago, about saving small things.
The writer spoke of the value of the sunflower.
When gathering my sunflower seeds this fall, I
remembered the article and ask permission to
add that its stalk makes very good kindling
wood; and to suggest to some enterprising
person the possibility of using the seeds for
dying purposes, as they stain the hands a deep
purple color which will not rub off easily.
	Now before I close I will tell the young
ladies what my little girl is making; perhaps
some of them would be glad of the suggestion,
to make something for a Christmas gift to a
sister, cousin or aunt. It may be old to many.
She has taken a cow horn, after the butcher
cleaned the inside of it, and after scraping the
outside with glass until it was smooth, she
pasted small transfer pictures on it, and is
varnishing it now; after the varnish dries she
will make small holes through the top and
tip through which she will put a fancy cord or
a ribbon, and it will make a beautiful orna-
ment for the corner of the parlor to hold a
winter bouquet.		EMILY SCOTT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Among the many pleasing incidents within
my recollection, was the sight of a large Flat-
boat loaded with English Saints, who were
obliged to leave the steamer at Keokuck, in
consequence of low water. They were singing
the sweet songs of Zion, as they came up the
river at the close of the day, and landed near
the Prophet's house, where stood scores of the
Saints; also many outsiders had gathered there,
and Joseph too, who welcomed them to Zion.
	At another time the "Maid of Iowa," in com-
mand of Capt. Dan Jones, brought a company
of two hundred and fifty Saints from New
Orleans, who, after unlooked for circumstances,
causing a tedious journey of five weeks, arrived
safely at Nauvoo, where Joseph and hundreds
of the Saints were on the shore waiting to greet
them with a warm and hearty welcome. A
short but interesting account of their eventful
voyage was given by Sister Priscilla M.
Staines, in the "Women of Mormondom." She
was one of the passengers and happened to be
an instrument in the hands of Providence to
give the alarm of fire, or the boat would soon
have been in flames. This was at Memphis,
Tenn. Some villain placed a half consumed
cigar under a straw mattress, and other bed-
ding that had been laid out of the ladies cabin
to air.
	They were mobbed and insulted at nearly
every place where they stopped, by the citizens
along the river. They were not persecuted for
polygamy—it was not upon those grounds that
mobs collected and threw "stones through the
cabin windows, smashing the glass and sash,
and jeopardizing the lives of the passengers,"
for they had not heard of polygamy being
practiced by the "Mormons," but they were
treated more barbarously than foreign emi-
grants are treated to-day. So we know that
Polygamy is only an excuse, and a most flimsy
one too. This was their first experience in
America, our boasted land of liberty- a refuge
and home for the oppressed of all nations.
Mobbing peaceful emigrants for nothing else,
only that they were "Mormons.
	During the winter of 1843, there were plenty
of parties and balls, and many were held at
the Mansion. The last one that I attended
there that winter, was on Christmas Eve.
Some of the young gentlemen got up a series
of dancing parties, to be held at the Mansion
once a week. My brother William put his
name down before asking father’s permission,
and when questioned about it made him
believe that he must pay the money for himself
and lady, whether he went or not, and that he
could not honorably withdraw from it. He
carried the day, but I had to stay at home, as
my father had been warned by the Prophet to
keep his daughter away from there, because of
the blacklegs and certain ones of questionable
character who attended there. His wife Emma
had become the ruling spirit, and money had
become her God. I did not betray William,
but I felt quite sore over it, and thought it a
very unkind act in father to allow him to go
and enjoy the dance unrestrained with others
of my companions, and fetter me down, for no
girl loved dancing better than I did, and I
really felt that it was too much to bear. It
made the dull school still more dull, and like
a wild bird I longed for the freedom that was
denied me; and thought myself a much abused
child, and that it was pardonable if I did mur-
mur. I imagined that my happiness was all
over, and brooded over the sad memories of
sweet departed joys and all manner of future
woes, which (by the by) were of short dura-
tion, my bump of hope being too large to ad-
mit of my remaining long under the clouds;
besides my father was very kind and indulgen

[Column 2]
in other ways, and always took me with him,
when mother could not go, and it was not a
very long time before I became satisfied that I
was blessed in being under the control of so
good and wise a parent, who had taken coun-
sel and thus saved me from evils, which some
others in their youth and inexperience, were
exposed to, though they thought no evil. Yet
the busy tongue of scandal did not spare
them.
	A moral may be drawn from this truthful
story. "Children obey thy parents," etc. And
also, “Have regard to thy name; for that shall
continue with you above a thousand great
treasures of gold." "A good life hath but few
days; but a good name endureth forever.”
	The first New Year's eve after the Prophet
moved into the Mansion, our choir, under the
leadership of Stephen Goddard, to which I be-
came a member some time previous, gave them
a serenade.
	We met at our usual place of practice, on
the hill near the Temple, and although the
night was unfavorable, being dark and rainy,
we, nothing daunted, started out between
twelve and one o'clock, we struck up and sang
the New Year's hymn. The inmates were
highly gratified, and the Prophet came out
and invited us to come in; but being late we
declined. After singing one or two Anthems
he pronounced his blessing upon the orchestra
and choir, which repaid the brethren and sisters
for all their trouble.
	William Cahoon, John Pack, Stephen Hale
and wives, William Pitt, William Clayton,
Jacob Hutchinson, James Standing and many
more, too numerous to mention, were members
of the choir, and most of the brethren belonged
to William Pitt's Brass Band. We enjoyed
together many happy seasons, though of short
duration.
	Our Music Hall was built one block east of
the Temple, but was not finished till after the
death of the Prophet. Previous to that we
held an occasional concert in the Masonic Hall,
which, according to history, was considered
"the most substantial and best finished Masonic
Temple in the Western States."
	We were not wanting for amusements, even
in the midst of some of the most trying scenes;
the Latter-day Saints seldom drooped or pined
for their [insert symbol]"Leeks and Onions," but adapted
themselves to circumstances with an excellent
grace.
	Our first dramatic entertainments were given
in the Nauvoo Masonic Hall- in the spring of
1844, under the direction of Thomas A. Lyne
and George J. Adams- the latter claiming
Heber C. Kimball as his father in the Gospel,
took up his abode with us whenever he came
to our city; was there during the summer of
1843, at which time, my father being absent
upon a mission, made it rather hard for my
mother to get along, as I went to school and
she was obliged to hire a woman to do the
work, her own health being very poor and her
baby sick, which he did not seem to realize as
he never offered any recompense. In the
spring of 1844, during the dramatic season, he
with his wife and sister staid with us, but my
father was at home which made quite a dif-
ference. I was just at the age to enjoy such
amusements, which made time pass very agre-
ably. Miss Adams was a fine young lady and
very gifted as an actress, in fact was quite a
star, though a new beginner like all the rest,
with the exception of Lyne, he spent much of
his time at our house, as they were old friends,
and he was a "Mormon." Mrs. Adams was a
dignified and quite a distinguished looking
woman, and made a fine appearance upon the
stage, but she played only one night—took the
part of the Countess in the "Orphan of Geneva,"
and thought herself so disguised that no one
would recognise her, but when she found that
she was known she could not be prevailed upon

			[Column 3]
to go on again, and as the play was to be re-
peated the next night, they were in a terrible
dilemma, not knowing what to do as we had
returned home, and it was then near midnight.
One of them proposed my taking the part,
(Adams or Lyne), and the women and all set
in flattering and teasing me to take it. But I
was a timid girl of fifteen and frightfully bash-
ful, and the idea of taking so dignified a part
was to my mind utterly absurd; having only
been upon the stage in two plays, first as one
of the virgins in "Pizarro" and another simple
part, but all my excuses were useless and I was
fairly pressed into service. Adams said en-
couragingly, "I'll help you out," and as Lyne
was leaving he said, "Now study the part over
good to night, and then retire and sleep on it,
and you’ll nearly know it in the morning;"
which direction I followed, and having a quick
memory was able to repeat every word at the
rehearsal, but when before an audience I was so
frightened that I remembered very little; my
wits nearly deserted me, but Adams was true
to his promise and by his readiness assisted me
to recover from my confusion. Though he was
never up in his own part, he was never at a
loss for a substitute in every emergency, but
which was anything but pleasing to those who
depended upon him for their cue. He was a
very good actor; and J. Hatch, a young Law-
yer- uncle to Pres. Abram Hactch of Heber
city, was also good as well as Amasa Lyman
and W. H. Folsom, and others. But no part
in “Pizarro’ was better played than was the
Priest, by Brigham Young. there was some
good acting done- some so life-like, that at
times nearly the whole audience would be af
fected to tears. Joseph did not try to hide his
feelings, but was seen to weep a number of
times. Among our best comedians was Hiram
B. Clawson, who I think, was the youngest of
of the boys, that was forty years ago; and
the scenes have been changing till but few
are now left who took part in the first drama-
tic entertainments held in our beautiful city
in 1845.
	On the 11th of May following, my brother
Wm. H. and Mary Davenport, were joined in
wedlock, by father at the house of Winsor P.
Lyons, and on the 13th he brought her home
to live with us.
	On the 17th, a national convention was
held, Joseph being candidate for the Presi-
dency. A great deal of enthusiasm was mani-
fested by the people, which was not confined
to our cities, but according to history, twenty-
seven states were represented." My father and
others of the Apostles were appointed to go East
to electioneer for General Joseph Smith.
			To be Continued.


﻿WOMAN Suffrage is the great moral and pol-
itical question of the nineteenth century.

	RECIPE FOR A HAPPY HOME.—Six things,
says Hamilton, are requisite to a happy home.
Integrity must be the architect, and tidiness
the upolsterer.  It must be warmed by aflec-
tion, and lighted with cheerfulness; and indus-
try must be the ventilator, renewing the atmos-
phere and bringing in fresh salubrity every
day; while over all a protecting canopy of
glory, and nothing will suffice except the bless-
ing of God.
	ELIZABETH, Queen of Roumania, says; “Co-
quetry is not always a bait; it is sometimes a
shield.  Forgiveness is almost indifference
while love lasts forgiveness is impossible. A
woman is stoned for an action which may be
committed by a man with perfect honor.
Women are bad through the fault of men. In
matters of science women are so much ac-
customed to be treated as if of no account, that
they mistrust the savans when they treat them
civilly.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 91﻿


A SONG.

Free as the birds of the mountain,
Free as the rippling rill;
Free as the crystal fountain,
So free is the human will
Mighty and strong, for right or wrong,
To choose thagood or ill,
O, God above, send down thy love
To guide the human will. 

Dcar in the eight of heaven—
Of this vain world a part—
Great is the work that’s given,
To each poor human heart.
Nobly and true, its work to do,
Though good or ill betide,
O, God above, send down thy love,
The human heart to guide.

God's mercy, ever careth
For the immortal soul,
All its needs He knoweth,
It should his name extol.
Let songs arise to rend the skies
Let soul and heart and will
To God above give endless love,
Our mission here to fill.
E. S. D.


IN ANSWER.

	I should like to dispel the veil of darkness
from our sister's eyes, (Mrs. Scott,) and ask
questions in a kindly manner, in relation to
those passages of Scripture which I quoted, and
by the light of the Holy Spirit answer in
truth.
	Did Mr. Alexander Campbell preach the
same Gospel in every respect that the Apostle
did, that laid such an injunction on his words?
"Though an angel from heaven preach any
other Gospel than that we have preached let
him be accursed." Though Mr.  Campbell
quoted the same words he had no authority to
administer in the ordinances of that Gospel.
although he believed it was right to immerse
in water to wash away the sin of the believer
that they might be brought forth to newness
of life.  Yet he was not called of God as was
Aaron, and the Bible says, no man taketh this
honor to himself.  Then I ask how could a
person be cursed for not believing his message,
he made no profession to this effect of being
called by God, or set apart by one having
authority.  When ever God had a particular
work to do or dispensation to bring about, He
said, "I will do nothing except I reveal it to
my servants the prophets." The world deride
revelation, and prophets.  How then can they
enlighten the people, seeing they grope in the
dark.  The Holy Ghost will bring all things to
our remembrance, things past, present and to
come; then will we know of the doctrine
whether it be of God or man.  Now let us ex-
amine Scripture, and try to learn the true and
everlasting Gospel as preached by the Savior
and his Apostles.  Just before our Savior
ascended into heaven, after his resurrection
from the dead, He gave his Apostles this com-
mission, "Go ye into all the world and preach
the Gospel to every creature, he that believeth
and is baptized shall be saved, and he that
believeth not shall be damned," and these signs
shall  follow them that believe, in my name they
shall cast out devils, speak with new tongues,
lay hands on the sick and they shall recover."
This is positive language.  They had the power
and authority, and signs followed their preach-
ing.  "And they went forth, and preached
every where, the Lord working with them , and
confirming the word with signs following; St.
Mark, last chapter.  "God is the same yester-
day to-day and forever, God changes not, his
word neither his Gospel."
	Did these signs follow Campbell's preaching?
If not, the word he preached was to those who
heard, a dead letter, and not confirmed.  "For
our Gospel cam not unto you in word only
but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and
in much assurance."  First Epistle of Paul to
Thes. 1st, chapter 5th verse.  I will also quote
second E. 1st ch. 7th verse,"And to you who are
troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus
shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty 
angels, in flaming fire taking vengeance on
them that know not God, and that obey not
the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ."  Please
read all the Epistle through, these words are
referring to the last days of out time.  Then is
it not of the greatest importance that we obey
the true Gospel? Which says "there is but one
faith, one Lord, and one baptism." "We must
earnestly contend for the faith once delivered
to the saints."  And as soon as we admit two
or more different doctrines, we lay a foundation
for infidelity, for that would make God the
Author of confusion and discord.
	Please read 1st Cor. 12 chapter.  This gives
the true order of the Church; that there should
be gifts, apostles, pastors, teachers, perfectly 
governed, and established without fault and 
schism; all must be of the same heart, and
mind, in perfect harmony with the Savior's
teachings, and it is so plain that a wayfarring
man though a fool need not err therein.  Now
I do know this is the true Gospel, to be bap-
tized, by one having authority, for the remis-
sion of my sins, go down into the water with
him as the Eunuch did; when I have done
this, refrain from doing wrong, by that grace 
which I have received; have hands laid on my
head, that the Holy Ghost may be manifested
to lead me into all truth, according to the
pattern in holy writ.  "And when Paul had laid
his hands upon them the Holy Ghost came on
them, and they spake with tongues and pro-
phesied." Now Daniel saw a kingdom estab-
lished on the earth.  "Now I am come to make
thee understand what shall befall thy people
in the latter-days, for yet the vision is for many
days."  14th verse.
	Chapter 10, but before this two chapters of
Daniel when interpreting the King's dream
which portrayed the setting up, and tearing
down of earthly kingdoms.    "The God of
Heaven set up his kingdom, (44th verse,) which
shall never be destroyed, and the kingdom
shall not be left to other people, but it shall
break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms
and it shall stand forever."  "For the earth
shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory
of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea."
	Now I will ask has a kingdom ever been set

up by any people, that has brought all the
powers of the earth into subjection to its rule,
and government? 14th chapter 6th verse Rev.
"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of
heaven, having the everlasting  Gospel, were put to 
death, and destroyed.  Therefore the Gospel
has not been on the earth since the days of the
former-day Saints.  Joseph Smith, a young man
fourteen years of age, attended several meetings
of different belief, and being in doubt which
was right, he opened the Bible, and read James
1st chapter 5th verse.  Ïf any lack wisdom, let
him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally
and upbraideth not;  and it shall be given
him.   But let him ask in faith;  nothing
wavering."
	My dear Sister, is not this the right way for 
you and I to find the truth?  He immediately 
retired to a secret place, and asked the Lord 
to tell him which of all these different sects
was right; he though that perhaps one might
be right, and as he was praying a personage, a
halo of light surrounding him stood before him,
and told him that none of them were true, and
for him to join none of them.  But in the own
due time of the Lord He would make known 
to him the true and everlasting Gospel, he
also told him about the Book of Mormon, be-
ing a history of the American Indians, and
he was shown the place where it was buried;
he obtained and translated it, and one of the
witnesses that saw the plates on which it was
engraved in living.  David Whitmer; if you
will read his testimony in the preface of the
Book.  And now concerning the reading of
which you speak.  To read we must under-
stand, it was the higher law they were com-
manded to keep, that is the Celestial Marriage.
"What God put together let no man put 
asunder."  "And let them marry in the Lord."
Let us see if David, and Solomon kept this
law sacred.  David took Uriah's wife, and 
Nathan the Prophet reproved him but those he
took lawfully he gave to him, he sinned by not 
keeping the law.  How about Solomon? he took
wives of heathen parents and worshiped their
gods, in this he sinned.  He must have neg-
gected his own true and faithful wives or they
would not have cried to the Lord.
	For behold, thus saith the Lord. this people
begin to wax in iniquity, they understand not
the Scriptures for they seek to excuse them-
selves in committing whoredoms because of the
things which were written concerning David,
and Solomon his son.  They truly had many
wives, and concubines which was displeasing 
to the Lord.  It must have been the way they
acted, and transgresses by doing so.  Therefore
He forbade them to marry more than one.
For the Lord savs that whoredoms are abom-
inations and He delighteth in the chast-
ity of woman.  The fault is laid to the 
husband, and that they should not com-
mit whoredom like unto them of old, etc.
Now if the sin consisted in marrying plural
wives, why did Nathan give them in  marriage?
And the wives of these men were called the 
fair daughters, and God heard their prayers
against the wickedness of their husbands. He
said, "If I will command my people," He could
command them to have but one, or more if He
chose.  And they of this class were the men
that held the holy Priesthood, and the oracles
of God.  He has the greatest right to give his
law or commands for men to obey, and He
should be obeyed rather than man, and in all
ages of the world God's laws have come in con-
tact with the traditional man made law, the law
of the land.  The self righteous Jews could not
conform to the law of Christ.  And in our day
the over righteous cannot see the kingdom of
heaven which is established on the earth, for
the salvation of every person who will receive
it.  "Glad tidings of great joy which shall be
to all the people."  "Come unto mr all ye
ends of the earth, and be ye saved."
	The second coming of our Savior will be
over-looked by the Gentile nation, as was his
first by the Jews.
	From a well wisher,
			MARY ANN PRATT.


IT is a delightful help merely not to be
hindered.—Jean Ingelow.
THE sad consequence of defection in princi-
ple is corruption in practice.—Dickens
TO persevere in one's duty and to be silent,
is the first answer to calumny.—Washington.
AN ability and an opportunity to do good
ought to be considered as a call to do it.—
Cecil.
MRS. Livermore writes that "The newspapers
of Boston are greatly improved now that women
are employed as regular writers on the staff."


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  -	-   Editor.
Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$l.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Connell
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY.  NOVEMBER 15, 1882


GRAND RALLY OF THE PEOPLE’S.
PARTY.
	Saturday evening, November 4, there was a
ratification meeting of the People’s Party at
the Theatre in this city.  All day the stars and
stripes had been floating to the breeze from the
roof of the Theatre, the dome of the City Hall,
and from the public builidngs.  Saturday, 6
o’clock p. m., according to previous arrangement
a procession formed in front of the Theatre, and
marched through the principal streets of the
city, several bands of music playing patriotic
airs, enlivening the scene; carriages filled with
prominent members of the People’s Party, Com-
mittees etc.,and a host of citizens on foot bearing
torchlights made a glittering parade, cheers were
given at several points on the way for Hon.
John T. Caine, the people's nominee.
	At 7 o’clock the procession had returned to the
Theatre.  Crowds poured into the house and in
a few minutes there was scarcely standing room.
Outside a multitude was gathered unable to gain
admittance.  It was too cold to hold an out-door
meeting as had been anticipated.  The interior
of the building was tastefully draped with the
stars and stripes and brilliantly lighted.  On the
platform were many ladies and gentlemen,
editors reporters, etc., as well as Territorial and
County Central Committees and the Mayor and
city officers.  Hon. John Sharp, Chairman Ter.
Cm. C m., proposed Mayer Jennings as Chair
man of the meeting, the motion was carried
unanimously.
	Mayor Jennings was escorted to the front, and
stepping f rward said:  Ladies and gentlemen,
allow me to thank you for the honor conferred on
me in appointing me to occupy the chair this
evening.  I thank you and will try to fill the
position.  
	Hon. D O. Calder nominated Hon. James
Sharp as First-Vice President; the nomination
was unanimously sustained.
 A. M. Cannon, Esq , nominated Judge A.
Miner as Second Vice President of the meeting;
unanimously sustained.
 S. W. Darke, Esq., nominated H. M. Wells, as
Secretary; also sustained.
S. H, Hill, Esq., nominated R. W. Sloan as
Assistant Secretary of the meeting; sustained.
Mayor Jennings then stepped forward and
said:  I will now introduce to you our friend and
fellow-citizen, Hon. John T. Caine (loud ap-
plause)'the nominee for Delegate to Congress.
Mayor Jennings then Introduced to the audi-
ence Mr. H. M. Wells, who read the “Declara-
tion of Principles” of the People’s Party.  Hon
John T. Caine was the first speaker, followed by
S. R. Thurman of Lehi, F. S. Richards of Og-
den , Dr. J. M. Benedict of Salt Lake and Judge
Dusenburry, of Provo.
	J. F. Wells, Esq., then moved that the
declaration of principles that had been read, be
adopted, that the speakers be tendered a vote of
thanks and the nomination of John T. Caine be
ratified. The motion was carried unanimhusly
the audience simultaneously giving three hearty
rounds of applause.  When silence had been re-
stored, Hon. James Sharp called for three cheers,
for the People’s candidate and the “hip, hip,
hurrah! was enthusiastically given.
Mr. Caine having returned thanks to the
people for their confidence and sympathy, and
to the speakers for their presence that evening
to those who had accompanied him throughout
the campaign, the bands and all who had helped
to make the meeting a success, the immense
audience dispersed.
	We reproduce the speeches made by the
younger speakers, which we consider specially
apropos, and are sorry we have not space for all
as published in the dally papers.
S. R. THURMAN. 
	We are called upon in the name of the Great
Jehovah and the continental congress to sur-
render up Ticonderoga.  In the name of the
Great Jehovah and the Constitution of our coun-
try, we decline to surrender.  (Applause.)  They
say, “something has happened in the Territory,
the People’s Party are crying, ‘What shall we
do to be saved ?” They tell us to repent and
come out from them.  We will come out, on the
7th of November, and elect the Hon. John T.
Caine. These are reasons why we cannot sur-
render the fort.  (Applause.)
	Let us recur to  fundamental principles.  You
have heard that our forefarthers enunciated the
principles that all men are created free and
equal; they did not limit the application, no
matter who the man might be, whether Chris-
tian or Mohammedan, whether Jew or Gentile,
heathen or infidel, the principle was universal
in its application, no matter from what land he
comes; whether from the legioned castles of
Europe, the burning sands of Arabia, the king-
doms of the Orientals, or the wave-washed
islands of the sea, the principle was with them
as universal as the dominion of Jehovah. They
also enunciated the idea that liberty can only
exist where the people governed participate in
its administration of government.  (Applause.)
On this foundation they reared the temple of
liberty, the grandest and most glorious structure
the world has ever witnessed.  (Applause.)
The People’s Party are accused of disloyalty.
When did we have our last revolution?  When
did we rebel against the national government?
When did we unfurl to the breeze any other flag
than the stars and stripes? (Applause.) The
People’s Party were the first to unfurl the flag
of our country on the spot where we stand.
They were the first to unfarl it on the Pacific
Coast—they did to in the name of the govern-
ment of the United States.  (Applause.) I
maintain that any party who seeks to establish
in the heart of the United States any other than
a republican lorm of government, is disloyal to
American institutions.  The Liberal Party are
trying to-day to secure for the people of this Ter-
ritory a government that does not contain one
element of republicanism; a government similar
in every respect to the one against which our
forefathers contended.  Hence that party are
disloyal.  (Applause.)
	In converstaion with a prominent Liberal a
few days ago, I asked him upon what principle
he justified the executive of this Territory in
relation to the certificate business.  He said, on
the principle that the end justified the means.  
That is, the right of a man to trample upon
the law, and disregard it whenever he sees fit,
to accomplish his ends.  I repudiate such a doc-
trine as monstrous in a republican government.
(Applause.) Let this principle be perpetuated
and established, and what will be the result?
Crash after crash will be heard as the bulwarks
of freedom give way; anarchy would wave her
sceptre over the land, and despotism would shout
in hellish triumph amid the crumbling ruins.
(Loud applause.  It would be the end of free
government and the destruction of liberty, yet
these are the principles of the Liberal Party.  In
speaking of the Party, of course I do not mean
all.  Many of them are good and patriotic men,
friends whom I esteem, but I speak of the ring
that manipulates and controls the party.  You
have been no doubt told that if you voted the
Liberal ticket, you will get a State government
in sixty days.  In the language of Cassius: “In
the name of all the gods at once, upon what meat
doth this our Caesar feed, that he is grown so
great?” (Loud applause.)  I believe that the
object of the Liberal Party is and has been to
drive the majority of the people of Utah into re-
bellion and hostility. The very platform they
have adopted is intended to insu t and enrage
the people.  They exhausted their fund of abu-
sive expressions, and closed for want of vitupei-
ative language.  It reminds me of the boy build-
ing a playhouse of mud; a preacher asked him
what he was doing.  He said he was building a
church.  The preacher asked him why he didn’t
make a preacher and put in his church. The
boy replied that he didn’t have any more mud.
(Laughter.) The Liberals quit for want of mud.
(Renewed laughter.)
Let us vote for the man who stands on princi-
ple, regardless of who or what he is.  Thank you
ladits and gentlemen for your attention. (Ap-
plause.)
F. S. RICHARDS, ESQ.,
Upon stepping forward, was received with loud
applause. He commenced by referring to the
rights guaranteed to all citizens by the Constitu-
tion of this country.  He alluded to the right of
trial by jury; to the fact that no bill of attainder
or ex post facto law should be passed; that no
person should be obliged to testify against him-
self.  These were some of the bulwarks that
were thrown around the people who lived under
this free government.  He would ask, were the
citizens of the Territory of Utah enjoying these
privileges ? He was told that there existed here
in the Territory of Utah thousands of men and
women who had been illegally deprived of one of
the most sacred of privileges—the right to cast
their vote for the men of their choice.  (Ap-
plause.)  That grand tribunal, the Supreme
Court of the Republic, had said that an in-
dividual who is deprived of his civil lights is
punished by reason of that deprivation. Now,
how was it that, under this constitutional guar-
antee, the people of Utah are punished for some
supposed offence?  Had they been convicted of
that offence?  If not, then they had been pun-
ished without the sacred constitutional privilege
of appearing before a jury and having their guilt
or innocence determined. (Applause.) Further
than this, many of them were not only punished
upon mere suspicion, and without having been
proven guilty, but they were punished in cases
where It would be impossible for the Govern-
ment to convict.  The same legislative power
that had passed the law to which he was now
referring, had provided that unless a prosecution
was brought within three years after the offence,
no conviction could be had.  Indeed, there were
in the Territory of Utah thousands of men and
women who, if they were to go to the District
Attorney and furnish him proof of the commis-
sion of the offence he could not convict, and yet
they were punished.  Further than this, there
were many individuals who had never violated
this law, and still they were deprived of the
sacred privilege of the franchise.  Men and
women, before there was a law existing in this
country regarding polygamy, entered into that
marriage relation, and although there never had
been a day nor on hour when the hand of the


[Column 1]
﻿aw could seize upon them, yet they were
unpunished. There were women here who never
violated the law—because prior to March, 1882
there was no penalty attached to the violation
of this law by the woman—the penalty attached
the men only and they only were guilty—and
yet those women were punisehd. "Who is respon-
sible for the idea that this is the proper construc-
tion of the law? Who is it that says it is right
to tear down those bulwarks that have been
thrown up by the Constitution?" He answered,
"it is the "Liberal" party of the Territory of
Utah," (great applause); In proof of this he
would read the ninth and tenth planks in the
"Liberal" platform. These sections he con-
tended were endorsements of the construction
that had been put upon the law, and for this he
branded the 'Liberal' party as being disloyal
(Applause,) and as seeking to subvert the funda-
mental principles of the government under
which we live. (Renewed applause.) Mr. Rich-
ards then alluded to the rule of construction ap-
plied to laws and showed that the legislative
body must be supposed to intend to confine a
statute within constitutional limits, because in
that consists its vitality, and outside of these
limits it is dead, imbibing the antidote poison of
unconstitutionality that if a constitutional con-
struction can be placed upon it, it must be so
applied and contended that the law of March,
1882, as it had been construed, by the "Liberal"
party, not as enacted by Congress—disfranchised
men and women illegally and unconstitution-
ally, and therefore he branded that party as dis-
loyal by seeking to make it appear that Congress
had violated the Constitution. (Applause.) He
referred briefly to the pretended moral aspect of
the bill, and related an anecdote of an Indian
who, by mischance, cut his dog's tail off behind
the ears and exclaimed, ugh! heap a too short
to illustrate the point that the tail had come
short of what was designed by the "Liberal"
party, because it did not say "in the marriage
relation." (Laughter and applause.) At first it
reached the whole of the people in this Territory.
Any man cohabiting with more than one woman
was liable to lose his franchise and the right to
hold office. But the "Liberals" undertook to
lengthen it out by adding to it. However, the
longer they made it the shorter it became, but
when they got through with doctoring the legis-
lation it was entirely too short to reach the
"Liberal" party. (Laughter.) Now it covered
thoroughly the People's Party, but the "Liberal"
party was left out in the cold. In other words,
this great moral measure upon which they (the
"Liberal" party) prided themselves, and for
which they rendered up everlasting gratitude—
this great moral measure permitted men and
women who had descended to the lowest depths
of degradation to go to the ballot box and cast
their votes, while honest, virtuous men and
women of the People's Party were excluded
because of the "marriage relation." (Applause.)
He was glad they had extended the bill, he was
glad of the distinction they had made, because
it placed the People's Party on a plane so high,
that those other people (the "Liberal" party)
would never, by any ladder they could construct,
be able to reach it. (Applause.) "In the dis-
franchisement of this people we see to-day, one
of the most sublime instances of patriotism that
can be found in the American Republic. (Loud
applause.) Here are thousands of people un-
justly, illegally, unconstitutionally, deprived of
the dearest and most sacred rights of American
citizens, and yet they humbly, meekly and
peaceably submit to this indignity until, in the
due time of Almighty God, the supreme tribunal
of the Republic shall restore to them their sacred
rights." (Prolonged and vigorous applause,
Was there, he asked, in) the annals of history

[Column 2]
ancient or modern, frm the days of Adam until
now, a grander or more sublime exhibition of
patriotism than this? He answered, No. In
conclusion Mr. Richards denounced the "Lib-
erals" for the construction they had put upon
this act of Congress, and charged them with
tearing away the very corner stones of the tem-
ple of liberty that were cemented by the blood
of our ancestors. (Applause.) He briefly allud-
ed to the tactics of the "Liberal" party, especial-
ly to P. T. Van Zile's promise that if the people
would elect him he would secure statehood for
the Territory in sixty days, and if not elected,
that Utah would get a Legislative Commission,
and showed the inconcistency of these promises,
in view of the fact that the platform in which
the "Liberal" candidate stood was opposed to
Utah's statehood and was in favor of the Legis-
lative Commission. He asked whether, when
Utah needed a representative who would be as
firm as a pillar of adamant, to withstand the
storm of hatred raging against her, we should
send a man who would be swayed by every
breath of prejudice; when she now needed an
able defender, should we send a vindictive pros-
ecutor? When she needed a wise and sympa-
thetic friend, whose heart would beat with joy
at her success or sink with sadness at her sorrow,
should we send a cruel and relentless foe, who
would rejoice to see her deprived of the last ves-
tige of liberty? His vote on the 7th of Novem-
ber would answer "No," because in the Hon.
John T. Caine he saw the wise friend, the able
advocate and the pillar of adamant. Mr. Rich-
ards retired to his seat amid prolonged ap-
plaus.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 94


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	OMAHA 7. Telegraphic dispatches say, "The
constitutional amendment relative to woman
suffrage, has been defeated by a large majority."
We are very sorry for Nebraska, and had hoped
to see the amendment passed this year, but "If
at first you don't succeed, Try, Try, again."
	ON Thursday, accompanied by our daughter
Louie we left Salt Lake with Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, to visit Wasatch Stake, attend Women's
Conferences and go through the country. We
returned on Monday, having visited Heber City,
Midway, Charleston, Wallsburg and Timpanogas
and attended eight meetings; and enjoyed our
visit very much.
	THE Lecture Committee for the Y. L. M. I.
A. Salt Lake Stake, report that they are prepared
to furnish lecturers for the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations. This is the season when the evenings
are sufficiently long to devote an hour at least,
to the pursuit of knowledge. Inquire at this
office or by letter to the editor, and the answer
will be promptly given or sent.
	MRS. Elizabeth Lisle Saxon, of New Orleans is
in the City. She comes as a special correspond-
ent of the Times-Democrat New Orleans, and
also the Pelladelphia Times. The lady has been
widely and favorably known as a poet and
novelist, and more recently as a lecturer and
suffragist. She is a fluent and rapid speaker,
pleasing in her address and especially attractive
on the platform. She has made forty-seven
public addresses in the state of Nebraska, since
the 3d. of October, in the interest of the amend-
ment granting suffrage to women. The amend-
ment was lost, but the women of Nebraska are
not discouraged. Mrs. Saxon expects to give 
one or two public lectures during her sojourn
in our city. The time and place as well as the
subject of her lecture, will be announced through
the papers. We cordially welcome Mrs. Saxon
to our delightful valley, and trust she will have
a good opportunity of seeing the happy home

[Column 2]
of the "Mormons," and believe that she will have
the courage simply to tell the truth regardless of
public opinion.
	ON Saturday, Nov. 4, we had the pleasure of
visiting Sandy, in company with Sisters E. R.
S. Smith and M. I Horne. A Relief Society
was organized, by Counselor Andrew Olsen Gel-
tes, assisted by Mrs. E. R. S. Smith. Mrs. Wil.
helmina Olsen, President; Mrs. Harriet Wilson
and Catharine Lewis, Counselors; Mrs. Mary E.
Neff,Secretary; Matilda Christophoson Assistant
Secretary; Ingrea Geltea, Treasurer. Twenty
members enrolled.
	Same day, 2 o'clock p. m , meeting was held,
and a Primary Association was organized, Sister
E. R. S. Smith organizing. The children
were quiet and orderly, and their exercises
were well rendered. Miss Maria Lewis
was elected President, Annie Ostler and
Maggie Olsen, Counselors, Joseph Maginnis and
James Osterman, Secretaries; and Mary Jane
Lewis Treasurer. Fifty-five members enrolled.
The sisters gave much good instruction and all
felt edified.
	"PLURAL MARRIAGE' as Taught by the Pro
phet Joseph," is the significant title of a book
just out, from the pen of Helen Mar Whitney,
already favorably known as a writer through her
contributions to the EXPONENT. The lady is
the eldest daughter of Heber C. Kimball, so long
and closely associated with Brigham Young.
The book contains strong testimonies of libing
witnesses on the subject referred to, as well as
quotation from the sayings and writings of 
Joseph Smith himself, and Heber C. Kimball.
She tells how the revelation upon celestial mar-
riage came into the possession of Brigham
Young. Mrs. Whitney writes in a simple, un-
pretending style, but her language is chaste and
her statements cannot be denied. Facts are
stubborn things, and truth carries conviction to
the honest hearted and humble. We commend 
this little pamphlet to the Latter-day Saints,
and to the whole world. The book was
published at the Office of the "Juvenile In-
structor" and is for sale there, and at this office
at 10 cts. per copy. It contains 52 pages and
is printed in very clear type.
			---------------------------


OBITUARY.
			Resolutions of Respect.
	On the death of Mrs. Ellen Jackson Goldsbrough, who
departed this life five hours after the birth of a son, her
tenth child, at her residence in Nephi, Oct. 27, 1882.
	Whereas, God in his mercy and wisdom, has seen fit
to call from our midst our beloved sister, who has been
so faithful in the discharge of her duties as a Relief So-
ciety Teacher, and as a Counselor in the Primary Asso-
ciation, and who has been acknowledged as a devoted
wife in the plural order of marriage, who was a kind and
affectionate mother, a loving daughter and sister, and a
true and confiding friend; and who in her girlhood left
all that was near and dear to her, in her native land, to
cast her lot with the Latter-day Saints; crossed the plains
in a hand-cart company. Her aged father and mother
brother and two sisters, followed with joy she welcomed
them to her mountain home. She was truly the Pioneer
of her father's house, and now her pure spirit has gone
before to the spirit world, there to await and welcome
her kindred and all that she held dear in this life.
	We, as officers and members of the Nephi Relief So-
ciety unanimously adopt the following resolutions.
	We sincerely condole with the husband and partner
Amelia Goldsbrough, and her dear children, also her aged
father, and mother, brothers and sisters, and tender them
our heartfelt sympathies in this sad bereavement. May
her examples of purity and integrity be emulated by
every member of our Society, that her noble life may
inspire in us a renewed determination to honor our re-
ligion and our God.
	Resolved, That we adopt these resolutions as a token
of respect, that we present a copy of these resolutions to


her family, and publish the Woman's Ex-
ponent, and place a copy on our record.
	May angels welcome to their realms of light
	Our Sister dear, so lovely, pure and bright,
	In paradise, among the pure and good
	Who for the cause of truth have nobly stood.
					Mary Pitchporth, Pres.
					M. E. Teasdale, Sec'y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.
	Cohoes, N. Y. Oct. 24, 1882.
Editor Exponent:
	A year has passed since our Society was or-
ganized. How short the time has seemed; for
our meetings have been like milestones along
our way, guiding and encouraging us onward.
They are a great comfort and blessing to us,
and when we look back to the time before we
had these meetings we wonder how we could
have gotten along without them. The Presi-
dent of the Society makes the meetings inter-
esting as well as instructive, and the members
attend quite regularly.
	Tuesday, 17th inst., was the anniversary of
our organization. On that day we held a
meeting, the exercises being appropriate for
that occasion. We felt doubly blest and each
fully enjoyed herself.
	Being a very small Society, we have not a
very large amount in the Treasury, but it is
willingly given. Two dollars have been given
for missionary purposes, five dollars we shall
send to the Logan Temple, and have some
remaining in the Treasury.
	Hoping we shall soon be gathered to Zion
where we shall be with God's people. I remain
yours in the Gospel,
			Hattie F. Clough, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
	﻿PERSONAL EXPERIENCE, ETC.
DEAR MRS. SCOTT:
	Allow me to offer you a helping hand. I
am much interested in your wading about in
the mud.
	I may as well say to begin with, that when a
child, my first attempt to read the Book of
Mormon through met with a similar result to
that which you have lately experienced.
	When I came to the second chapter of Jacob,
I became somewhat confused. I thought I did
not understand it, or if I did, it told me that
the Lord condemned “Polygamy,” and that it
was an abomination in his sight.
	I did not go humbly before the Lord then,
and ask for an explanation of the matter, But
with the book open in my hand, I went to my
father and asked him if “Polygamy” was right,
and if the Lord did reveal the principles to
Joseph Smith, with the commandment that he
and some of his brethren should enter into it?
To these questions my father replied calmly
and solemnly in the affirmative.
	“Then,” I demanded, “What does this
mean?” And I read aloud those passages
which seemed to me to make the Lord appear
anything but an “unchangeable being," “the
same yesterday, to-day and forever.” If He
had actually said those things to Jacob for the
Nephites, and the exact opposite to Joseph for
the Latter-day Saints. My father heard me
through, and then took the book and read, and
endeavored to make clear to my understand-
ing, the fact that no inconsistencies existed be-
tween the teachings in that chapter, and the
teachings of our Latter-day prophets. He ad-
mitted that some men among our people were
foolish, and would do wrong, and that they
would be held accountable for their wrong do-
ing. The Lord would not justify sin and
wickedness among his people now, any more
than in former days, His daughters and their

			[Column 2]
purity were as precious in his sight to-day as
in any age of the world that had ever been.
And a great deal more was said, but I could
not comprehend it. I was sure that my father
knew what he told me was the truth; but he
could not know it for me. Every other prin-
ciple of our religion which I had heard or
thought anything about, seemed so plain and
also so good and beautiful, that I wondered
why I could not see the good and beauty of
“Polygamy,” if really there were any in it.
	My parents were Latter-day Saints, not only
in name but in deed and in truth, years before
my birth. So that—something like yourself,
Mrs. Scott, “I was conceived in faith, brought
forth in repentance and raised in baptism.”
But differing from you somewhat, I did not
“believe because my parents and relatives did;”
but had to understand things for myself in or-
der to believe them. I was baptized when six
years of age because I wanted to be. My father
thought best for me to wait two years, until I
should be eight years old. But our Bishop
said I had as good an understanding of things
as many children at the age of eight years; he
advised my father to baptize me, and it was
done. 
	When I was fifteen years old, I began to
realize the inconsistency of my being a staunch
advocate of “Mormonism” in the main, while
one of its vital principles, I could not say that
I understood or believed. One thing I ac-
knowledged to myself, I had not striven dili-
gently to find out for a certainty whether or
not “Polygamy” was right. Instead of study-
ing into it, I had simply looked at it, concluded
it was a doubtful problem, and inheroically
let it alone. I wanted to know about it for
myself now, and began to pray earnestly for
greater faith and light. (This, I think, you
might do with profit, my dear Mrs. Scott.)
The Lord was merciful unto me, He heard my
prayers, and the light came. Not suddenly,
as it comes to some; but gradually and unmis-
takably. Not without many efforts on my part
to grasp a ray when it was presented to me, to
hold and nourish a gleam of truth when I got it.
I learned to understand the principles of
“Polygamy,” very much as we learn to under-
stand principles m mathematics or chemistry;
and it seems as clear to me now as that two
and two make four, or that alkali and acid
compounded in liquid form will effervesce.
	In the second chapter of Jacob, before
alluded to, the word of the Lord to the people
of Nephi was, “There shall not any man among
you have save it be one wife; and concubines
he shall have none.” They were but a small
people, their men and women being about
equal in number. It was not the design of the
Lord that their seed should multiply very
rapidly, but that He might raise up unto him-
self a righteous branch, from the “fruit of the
loins of Joseph.” In the same chapter it is
written, “For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts,
raise up seed unto me, I will command my
people; otherwise they shall hearken unto these
things.”
	In these the latter-days, the Lord wills to
raise up seed unto himself, and He has com-
manded his people, through the medium of his
Prophet Joseph Smith, and they have heark-
ened, some of them, and obeyed the voice of
the Lord by entering into plural marriage, or
as it is styled, “Polygamy.” “Whoredoms,”
and all licentiousness are as abominable in the
sight of the Lord today as they ever were, and
such things have nothing to do with the “Poly-
gamy” of the Latter-day Saints. To the faith-
ful members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, whether political “polygam-
ists” or not, nothing is held so choice and sacred
as personal virtue and chastity: and nothing
is so dreadful as the loss of it;
	We consider that a man who marries two or
more wives, and remains faithful to them, is as

			[Column 3]
pure and good as the man who marries but one
and is true to her. And in like manner do
we view the women who are faithful to their
husbands, whether they live in “Polygamy” or
out of it.
	If you are still in doubt about the same Lord
giving one commandment to the Nephites, and
another to the Latter-day Saints, let me call
your attention to a single illustration of a simi-
lar occurrence, recorded in the old Testament.
	You know all about the storing of a very
great amount of grain in Egypt, because of the
sore famine that was coming upon the land and
how the blessings of the Lord rested upon the
world. You will also please call to mind, how
but a few generations later, when the Lord
fed his people with manna in the wilderness,
the word was that none of the manna should
be stored away, (to make their loads heavier as
they travelled,) except a little for the Sabbath.
And when this commandment was broken, the
result was evil instead of good for the people.
Many other examples might be cited, but let
this suffice to show that what suits one people
and their condition may not be applicable to
others in their time.
	One thing more. You say the “vexing of
the wicked” is what makes you bitter and un-
happy, for religiously the wicked includes all
who differ from the Church.” We do not view
it in that light at all. We believe that people
who are honest and virtuous, and who seek to
benefit others, will never be classed among the
wicked and the ungodly, though they make no
professions of religion. They receive better
rewards than thousands of professed religionists
who parade their piety, but whose inner lives
are vile and corrupt.
	“The wicked” are those who would stir up
strife and contention, who are dishonest, im-
moral, and who seek to abuse and discomfort
others. Is it not just, that such should be
punished? We would not allow one of our
young children to heap impositions on another
without interfering, and putting the bad one to
shame, if after being told repeatedly how he
ought to act, he still persisted in being bad.
Neither will our great Father suffer some of
his children to wrong others, and not bring
them to judgment for it.
	“Why not prevent the wickedness?” you
ask. Why not indeed! which of us would
not, if we had the power.
	Your ideas of happiness and religion re-
mind me of an expression made by a stranger
lady who attended a little birthday gathering,
given to one of our noble sisters a short time
since. She said of us, “You are indeed, a hap-
py people, whether you are right or not.” Our
answer was, “Our happiness is an evidence that
we are right. Did we not know that we are
right before our God, we could not be thus
happy.”
	True religious sentiments and lives will make
people happy and satisfied under very trying
circumstances. But a religion which requires
no self-denials, which offers no occasions for
the uprooting of native selfishness and the cul-
tivation of more generous fruits, would be too
cheap and too unlike the religion of Jesus to
be valued very highly.
	What a long letter, and I would say more
but that I fear, Mrs. Scott, you (or our mutual
friend the editor) will lose patience with me,
and I would not like to vex you. So goodbye.
				L. GREENE RICHARDS.


Lady Hannah Shepherd Havelock recently
died at her residence in Kensington Palace
Gardens, London. In recognition of the ser-
vices of her distinguished husband, the captor
of Lucknow, Parliament settled upon her a
pension of 1,000 a year, and raised her to
the rank of a baronet’s widow, with the baro-
netcy renewed to their son.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 95


[Column 1]
EXPLANATORY LETTER.

			Salt Lake City, Sept. 1882.
MY DEAR MRS. SCOTT:
	I have conceived an earnest desire to write
you a private letter, thinking I cannot do jus-
tice to my feelings publicly. Being deeply
interested in you, and believing you to be
"honest in heart," my anxiety is great that you
may know and comprehend our religion as it
really is, in all its fulness and beauty.  Being
born and reared under the auspices thereof, I
can assure you that I have never heard a word
uttered, by way of counsel or instruction,
neither in public or private, by any of our
Elders or ministers, but has been calculated to
elevate and purify mankind, and can also
assure you my dear Mrs. Scott, that "Mormon-
ism" is a sure stepping stone, there is no danger
in that path, should you once make up your
mind to forsake the world and walk therein.
It will not endanger your health in  any way,
but will lead you on to life, life everlasting.
The angel whom John the Revelator saw, has
indeed flown through the midst of heaven, with
the Everlasting Gospel, and has delivered the
same to Joseph Smith, the unbelief of the world
to the contrary notwithstanding; and thousands
upon thousands can and do bear testimony to
that fact, by the gift and power of the Holy
Ghost, which was conferred upon them by the
laying on of hands after their baptism, by
those holding authority to administer the same,
Do you remember Jesus asked Peter who he,
Jesus, was, when Peter answered, "Thou art
the Christ the Son of the living God,"  then
Jesus said, "Blessed art thou Simon Barjona,
flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto
thee, but my Father who art in heaven and on
this rock, (the rock of revelation) will I build
my church, and the gates of hell shall not pre-
vail against it."  We claim to have that same
Gospel which Jesus taught, founded on revela-
tion, and should not dare teach any other, for
fear of coming under the curse.  One of the
greatest proofs we have of its being the same,
is that the signs do follow believers as they
did anciently.  Paul says "One Lord, one faith
and one baptism."  The gospel he preached
was faith, repentance and baptism, the laying
on of hands for the conferring of the gift of
the Holy Ghost, with these signs following be-
lievers.  "In my name they shall cast out
devils, speak with new tongues, lay hands on
the sick, and they shall recover, etc. Now!
We positively know, we have that same Gospel
Paul preached, because the same effects are
made manifest that were realized by believers
anciently.  I have seen the sick healed, through
the administration of the Elders, when death
had laid hold upon them, have heard speaking
in tongues, and the interpretation thereof.
Now, there are none of the various sects of the
day who make such professions, therefore can-
not consistently lay claim to preaching the
Gospel taught by Jesus and his Apostles.  If
you will read the 3d chapter of 2nd Timothy,
you will find a perfect descripton of the state of
affairs, existing at the present day.  Should
you repent and be baptized and have hands
laid upon you for the reception of the Holy
Ghost, by those having authority, that Spirit
would reveal unto you, and make plain every
principle of our religion, Celestial marriage
included.  
	I am not surprised that the chapter you
mention, in the Book of Mormon, should puzzle
you.  Yet it seems to me that the clause.  "But 
if I will."  saith the Lord, "raise up seed unto
me, I will command my people," settles the
whole question, however, that is not the most
profitable subject for you to study.  The first
principles of the Gospel should engage your
whole attention at present.  If you can be con-
vinced that God has spoken from the heavens,

[Column 2]
all else will become plain and simple to your
understanding.
	From the account we have of Philip and
the Eunuch the first principles only were
taught.  Let us take up these and then go on
unto perfection.
	I wish to correct you on one point, wherein
you sadly misjudge us as a people, we do not
consider all wicked who are not members of
our church.  We know there are thousands,
not of us, who are honest, upright people,
doing as well as they know how, according
to the light which they possess.  Such are not
included, when we speak of the wicked being
vexed.  But we do expect that many will
flock to Zion (this people) when God's judg-
ments are stalking abroad in the earth, this be-
ing the only place of safety, and this the only
people who will not be at war one with another.
Understanding me as you did, you could not
think otherwise, than that we are an unjust,
illiberal people,when exactly the opposite is the
case. I would shudder at the thought of any
suffering, who did not justly, truly merit it,
even then my sympathies would be aroused,
although knowing it to be just.  You desire
that faith in God that your children have in
you. That is exactly the faith possessed by
the Latter-day Saints.  We fear no evil that
threatens us as a people, for we know that God
rules, that He holds the destinies of nations in
his hands, and He will take care of his Saints
lor He has declared that to be his business.
I for one can assure you, without a doubt,
that you will find that faith you seek, by yield-
ing obedience to this Gospel, for it really does
make us look up, and fills our hearts and lives
full of melody, thanksgiving and love. Why,
there are no other people who know how to
love as we do.
I will, tell you, as a proof of the power and
efficacy of this Gospel over the lives of the
people, that it is a rare thing to find a dis-
honest, wicked young person, among the child-
ren of the Saints, as our statistics will show. I
would not fear receiving an insult from a Lat-
ter-day Saint, should I meet him a thousand
miles from every other human being.  In fact
I never heard of such a thing happening unless
it was from an apostate in spirit.  No other
Church could say the earac of all its members.
Praying that God will inspiro you with his
Spirit, that you may comprehend the things of
bis kingdom, and that I shall one day meet
you in the “valleys of the mountains,” I
remain your true friend and well-wisher.
Mary A. Freeze.


NOTES FROM MORGAN.
 Since the storms subsided and fine weather
set in, the potato crop and the threshing of
grain has kept men women and children very
busy, but not so much so but we could attend
to our Relief Societies and Y. L. M. I. Con-
ferences and enjoy them. The sight of so many
persons leaving their daily labors, to meet to-
gether to express their gratitude to their
Maker, and unite their efforts  to benefit each
other and mankind at large, is one that ever
fills my soul with emotions easier understood
than expressed.
	Of course you know that it took some power-
ful argument and reasoning, to call the ladies
of Morgan, from the work-stoves, and work-
baskets, to the stage of political lore; our lords
of creation having carried on things in a man-
ner so straight-forward and conscientious, we
did not think it necessary for us to mix up with
politics. However we find to-day that we have
not awakened to our sense of need and duty
one hour too soon; as the opposing element
which has been smouldering for years in our
large cities, is now assuming a flare up, which
has sent its crackling sparks to adjoining settle-
ments. When I talk of opposing element, I
mean those discontented parties who are never
happy only in their endeavors to make others
miserable, and who would scarcely appreciate
wealth unless acquired at the detriment of
others. For a week past posters have been put
up in the neighborhood of our R. R. Station,
where all our commerce also lies, to notify the
public, that Judge Van Zile, and other gentle-
men, would visit this our country seat, for a
grand rally of the Liberal forces, and to lay
before the people the platform adopted by their 
Party. Thursday morning, the 25th inst. as
per announcement, Messrs. Van Zile, Hollister,
and others were met at Weber Station, on their
return from Coalville, by Registrars Peterson
and Shurtliff, and one or two other parties;
but the assemblage did not appear large
enough, and although invited to partake of a
breakfast prepared in their honor, the Liberal
visitors decided to proceed to Ogden for break-
fast, but the blame will not lie at their door.
The use of the school, house had been granted
them, in which to rally, and deliver their pat-
riotic (?) speeches; but after waiting in vain
for an audience, they adjourned to the R. R.
Station, where a few railway employers swelled
their numbers. Mr. Van Zile relieved himself
of some of his spleen, by the delivery of his
usual bosh, viz., accusing religious authority,
or the priesthood for everything that did not
suit him, especially the absence of an audience
to listen to his oratory (?). So much for the
consistency and liberality of the Liberal
Party, and the good hard common sense of the
Morganites for not choosing to hear themselves
abused.
	To-day, when as per announcement the
Hon. John T. Caine, S. R. Thurman, Judge
Dusenberry and James Sharp, arrived they
were met by many of our prominent ladies and
gentlemen, and were escorted to South Morgan
preceded by D. Bull’s Brass Band. After
partaking of dinner, those gentlemen repaired
to the school house, which was crowded to
suffocation. The people felt amply repaid for
leaving the potato fields and threshing ma-
chines, to hear the able, eloquent and patriotic
speeches delivered by the above named gentle-
men. Indeed it was a feast fit for intellectual
kings and queens, that exposition of good
sound arguments and noble principles, couched
in terms that displayed patriotic enthusiasm
and astounding oratorial ability. The Brass
Band discoursed lively music and the audience
demonstrated their appreciation by loud cheers
and applause.
	A light was beaming on the countenance of
all, the light of the fire which burned in the
bosoms of the heroic Fathers of 1776. May
that fire spread until it fills the universe is the
wish of your humble servant,
					E. C. E. Francis.
Oct. 26, 1882.


Gov. St. John says: Men say it will degrade
woman to vote, but they can see her wash all
day to support a vagabond husband who sells
his vote for a glass of whisky, and never think
of her degradation.—Ex.

	A SIXTEENTH amendment is pending in the
United States Congress, and will be acted upon
the coming session. The following gentlemen,
candidates for Congress, are favorable to it, and
should receive the support of every suffragist,
Hon. G. S. Orth, Hon. R. B. F. Pierce, Hon.
Stanton J. Peelle and Col. Mark L. DeMotte.
A correspondent says, "I am a Democrat, but
Col. DeMotte will get my ballot, because he is
a prohibitionist, a suffragist and a Christian
gentleman." Voters! break away from party
rings and send men to Congress who represent
the best principles.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. SCOTT ASKS MORE QUESTIONS.
Well what did the Commissioners do ? They
should have come around this way. If they
make polygamy the main issue, I could have
shown them several corners where polygamous
cobwebs are pretty thick even in Ohio. Oh,
this is a queer world: as the simple girl said,
“There be the most queer folks in this’ere world
that I ever saw any where.” Now sitting at
my open window of a summer Sunday evening
I can hear the songs and sermons in the Metho-
dist church near by. I smile to hear them
sing:
“Blest be the tie that binds
Our hearts in Christian love.”
And sometimes wonder what God thinks of that
Christian binding. The church is a fine one,
most of the members very wealthy, living in
palatial homes, and nearly all connected by
business or marriage relations. But oh! how
thin is that Christian binding—almost worn
through, but patched by policy and pride,
darned by dimes and dollars. One of their
prominent members—an old man—was dealt
with for improper conduct with a dressmaker,
a young sister in the Church, not long since.
Quite a stir was made just at the time, and
one of the Deacons became so excited that he
struck the erring brother, and would have
thrashed him soundly, but was prevented by
the bystanders. The matter was hushed up,
and they all went to church together. Now it
was a big affair, and aroused my religious scorn
to see it ,so [---]tly, nicely tucked into a hiding
place. I ha[-] no relish for such matters, but
do not like [---]e a dirty mess swept into a
corner and covered up, and have to say: “How
nice and clean your house is.” I rather ad-
mire[-] [-]he pluck of the Deacon, and one day
expressed my admiration saying: “He is al-
together upright so far as women are concerned
isn’t he?” “W-e-1-1” said my companion dryly,
“t-h-e-re is never v-er-y m-u-c-h said a-g-a-i-nst
h-i-m in that w-a-y.” The story was like a
snowball, the bigger it got, the faster it got
bigger; so, disgusted, I dropped it and smiled.
	I am sorry you did not clear up the questions
I broached in my last letter. I can not accept
any religion that will not bear sifting. Poly-
gamy does not trouble me. I really bellieve it
would make the world better and happier. *
*	*	 Please do not be displeased with
erratic talking, I am not so vicious as it may
appear. Shall I ask you to pardon mistakes,
or must I rewrite the letter and correct them ?
(perhaps multiply them) know that at my
elbow sits Alice (age eleven) studying, and its
“Ma, is this answer right.” Then Mr. D, on
the other side of the table, says, “Em, can you
listen a moment ?” He is reading, A. Willford
Hall’s “Problem of Human Life.” Sumner
and Charlie sandwich their boyish exploits in
between times, so that my pen is like the tele-
graph instrument—must click away while
messages are going over the wires, from ear to
ear, on various matters.
I remember with pleasure your picture of
home-life. Our home is very pleasant. I call
our house “The tramp’s retreat,', as preachers
of all denominations, doctors, teachers and
everybody calls in.	Emma S.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	GEN. Butler has been elected Governor of
Massachusetts on a woman suffrage platform.
This is a great gain for the women of the Old
Bay State, who have labored so assiduously in
the interest of equality before the law.

	THE sending of medical woman from Eng-
land to India is likely to be an established
custom. The Indian women are averse to
treatment by physicians not of their own sex.

[Column 2]
The statistics of the British medical service
in India show that the women have rarely
availed themselves of prescriptions or atten-
dance. A staff of trained women is proposed
as a part of the public service in India, a de-
partment co-ordinate and not subordinate to
the existing medical bureau.—Ex.

	THE foreign-born population of Kansas is
not nearly so great as it is in many other
States. Of the total inhabitants, over 954,-
000, only about 110,000, or fewer than one in
nine, are foreign-born, while nearly one in
three of the population of Massachusetts, and
one in four of the population of Illinois, are
foreign-born. The people are not only mainly
native-born, but are of the b[e]st elements of
the Northern States hence the progressive atti-
tude of Kansas on Woman suffrage and pro-
hibition.

	YEAR by year prejudice against the occupa-
tion of public place by women is steadily de-
creasing. This is especially noticeable in con-
nection with educational matters. Women are
now eligible as school officers in Illinois, Iowa,
Kansas, Virginia, Massachusetts, Michigan,
Minnesotta, New York, Pennsylvania, Ver-
mont, Wyoming, and to any office in Wisconsin
except that of State Superintendent. In Mis-
sissippi the law requires that at least one
woman shall be a member of the State Board
of Education. Other States are moving in the
same direction, and before ten years those that
fail to follow the same wise example of those
mentioned will be the exception.—Inter-Ocean.

	THE Association for the Advancement of
Women, otherwise known as the Woman's
Congress, held a series of successful meetings
in Portland, Me., on Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday of last week. Among the note-
worthy participants in the proceedings were
Julia Ward Howe, Mrs. Kate Gannett Wells,
Abby W. May, Mary F. Eastman, Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, Laura Clay (daughter of
Cassius M. Clay), Mrs. Henrietta L. T. Wol-
cott, Dr. Marie Zakrzewska, Mrs. Gen. Lander,
Dr. Lorenza Haynes, Miss Emily J. Leonard,
Mrs. Lita Barney Sayles, and many others
more or less known to the public as thinkers
and leaders. The topics discussed took a very
wide range. The rights of women; the rights
of children, Chinese emigration, religion art,
labor, finance, hygiene, astronomy, political
economy,—these were among the problems
considered by the Congress.

	An Artistic Restaurant.—Visitors to the
last Paris Exposition will remember the head
of the statue of Liberty which formed so promi-
nent a figure in the fair grounds, and was the
more interesting as being destined for America,
known to all the world as the Land of Liberty.
Even then and there Bartholdi, the sculptor of
the colossal figure, used to gather parties of
friends around a banqueting board beneath the
dome of the bronze caput. From time to time
the public has been apprised of the progress of
the work, the lower portion of which is now
well builded up. The latest report is of a ban-
quet in the thigh of the statue, which was "most
successful in every way." The guests walked
in by the right foot, and one of them laid him-
self down most comfortably inside one of the
toes; ladders coveyed them all the way up the
calf, and finally deposited them where a tem-
porary platform had been constructed, and the
festivities are allowed to go on. Liberty may
turn to Bacchus before she is ready to lift her
torch on Bedloe's Island. However, a sculptor
who devotes a hundred thousand dollars of his
own money to a gift-statue, as Bartholdi has to
this, is surely entitled to such pleasure as he
can improvise from it. He is a wealthy man,
alone in the world since the death of his mother
not long since.—Ex.


KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 21 and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's

Men's Socks, Ladies’ and Childrens' Stockings, Infant
	Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladles'and Children's Hoods,
		etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
	19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the 
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Comminication between Office and Residence 

AT TEASDEL'S 
SALT LAKE CITY
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.P.TEASDEL.

Z. C. M. I. 
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTUREAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. Your Orders are Stolicited 
GEO. DUNFORD. 

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store,
Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Dieases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C. 
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns, 		Cotton Batting, 
Flannels,		White Yarns, 		Wool Batting, 
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	 Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers, 		 Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			 Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
----HAVE----
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE 
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, AS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PIMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAI DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIBE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
--AND--
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1882.	No. 13.


THANKSGIVING.
	BY HANNAH T. KING.

Holy Father! we, thy people, bow
Before thy grand, Paternal throne, to pay
Our grateful trubute on "Thanksgiving Day,"
And with the nation bend before thee now.

Now, to-day, this hour, the nation's praise
Is rendered for thy rich, Paternal care,
Which thou to every grade alike doth share,
And every grateful heart its poeans raise.

Poeans of gratitude, that the passing year
Has seen Thine hand of mercy richly spread
O'er every rank, e'en to the nation's head--
Thy Godlike wisdom doth to all appear!

Health, wealth, and furthermore sweet peace,
In great abundance has been dealt to all;
Upon the just and unjust doth Thy bounty fall,
And by Thy mandate wars and rancor cease.

O Father!  breathe into the nation's car,
And into his who holds the keys of state,
That he may wisely read the scroll of fate
That Time unrolls, thro' each eventful year;

The nation rouse from its lethargic state,
With eyes wide open may it see the pit
Already yawning to sepulchre it--
May it be warned before it be "too late!"

Columbia! favored spot of earth,
May'st thou be wise in this, thy day of grace!
May'st thou remember, in thy "pride of place,"
God had a purpose in thy wondrous birth.

Seers, long past, beheld thy rising ray,
And named thee "Land of Promise," bright and fair,
That, if obedient, thou should'st be the heir
To herald forth the consummation day.

Do not the whisperings of thy Spirit tell
The great events all nations will behold?
Which soon the scroll of fate shall wide unfold,
And history's page with mighty doings swell.

And in the mountains, Utah's peaceful vale,
Thy people lift, as with one heart, to Thee,
A song of praise, thanksgiving, that they see
Thy hand protecting them when foes prevail;

We are Thy people, tho' weak and frail we be--
We hold the oracles of the latter days!
Sweet gratitude inflates our song of praise,
And heart, and brain, and knee we bow to Thee!
Salt Lake City, Thanksgiving Day.


[Column 1]
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Concluded.

	We have given only the outlines of the life
of the lady who forms the subject of this
sketch, but her domestic associations, her actual
self-sacrifices, her consecration to religious duty,
the inner life of the woman we cannot pretend
to portray. We simply give what we see from
the outside. The heart knoweth its own griev-
ances or joys.
	Mrs. Horne's family are certainly a great
credit to her training and example. The chil-
dren are following in wisdom's ways, and seek-
ing to obtain an exaltation hereafter. This is
the happiest result that a mother could desire.
	On the occasion of the demise of her
daughter-in-law (Lydia Weiler, daughter of
Bishop Weiler of the Third Ward of this

[Column 2]
city), Mrs. Horne, after attending her through
a very severe illness, took the babe six
weeks old to raise. She was at that time
sixty years of age, and her hands and heart
full of public work, yet her large motherly
heart opened to the little orphaned one,
and she took it to her maternal bosom,
and cherishes it as her very own. After hav-
ing reared a large family and seen them take
their places in the world's busy workshop,
to be able physically and mentally to go forth
into a wider field of action, and labor for hu-
manity, is something grand and high. That
there are women who can do this, and perform
their part well, we are proud to record. And
why should we not appreciate and honor those
who are willing to devote their lives, their hap-
piness, and their sacred honor to do good to
the human family? Mrs. Horne has been an
officer and active worker in the silk industry
ever since the culture was introduced into this
country. She is at the present time a member
of the board of directors of the Deseret Silk
Association. At the time of the organization
of the board of officers for the Deseret Hos-
pital in May, 1882, Mrs. Horne was elected
Chairman of the Executive Committee. This
institution has taken much executive ability to
establish, and Mrs. Horne has given efficient
aid in this labor, and still continues to do so.
	Mrs. Horne's large family have each been
called upon to fill positions of trust and useful-
ness at various times. Her eldest son, Henry,
was for eleven years Bishop in Paris, Idaho; in
1880 he moved to Arizona, to assist in coloniz-
ing there, and was appointed Counselor to
David P. Kimball. It takes men of energy
and determination to settle up new tracts
of country. Joseph, when about twenty
years of age, was called on a mission of three
years and a half to Switzerland, where he ob-
tained a thorough knowledge of the German
language; on his return he was called to be
Bishop of Gunnison, Sanpete Co., which posi-
tion he held for ten years, when he was again
called to Switzerland to preside over the Swiss
and German mission, and to edit the Stern,
published in Berne, being absent from home a
year and a half. In 1878 he was called to be
Bishop in Richfield, Sevier Co., which position
he still occupies; is also Mayor of that city.
Richard, who resides at present in this city, is
engaged as a teacher, a profession he is par-
ticularly well adapted to fill. While residing
in Beaver a few years since he was Superin-
tendent of the Sunday School, and has filled
several home missions. John, the youngest
son, was the first President of the Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Association in the Four-
teenth Ward in this city, and is a good, faith-
ful Elder in Israel.
	Mrs. Horne's daughters are not a whit be-
hind her sons in intellectual capacity and de-
velopment. Lizzie, the eldest daughter, and
wife of Edward Webb, lives at Deseret, Mil-
lard Co., and is a womanly woman, who might
grace any society. Like her mother, she has
borne a large family, fourteen children, and as
yet has had no spare time to devote to public
duties. Nora, the second daughter, wife of
George Spencer, son of Orson Spencer, some-
what famous in Church history for his valua-
ble writings as well as great missionary work
in America and Europe, resides in Paris,
Idaho; we have stated before in this biographi-
cal sketch, that Mrs. Spencer was a strong-
minded woman; no doubt some time in the fu-

[Column 3]
ture she will come before the public as an ac-
tive worker. At present she is Treasurer of
the Relief Society in the town where she re-
sides, and renders good service to those with
whom she is associated in the work. She has
had eight children, and is a most devoted wife
and mother. Julia married William S. Bur-
ton, and died in childbed in her first confine-
ment, leaving a baby girl that died at the age
of eleven months. She was a beautiful and
attractive woman. At the first organization of
the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Fourteenth Ward,
she was chosen President. At the re-organiza-
tion of that Association a few years later, Miss
Cornelia Horne was made President; she was
also for three or four years Business Manager
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and is a very
talented young lady. She has a magnificent
voice, and has sung considerably before the
public. She is the wife of James Clayton and
the mother of two little boys, and will doubt-
less have a large family, like her mother and
sisters. Minnie, her twin sister, was for several
years Secretary of the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion and the Sunday School in the ward. Since
her marriage to Wm. James she has been chosen
President of the Primary Association of the
Seventh Ward. She has one little daughter,
and the brightest prospects before her. The
two unmarried daughters are great helps and
blessings in the home, devoted to their parents
and their religion.
	Mrs. Horne has endured much hardship, and
encountered dangers and severe storms, in trav-
eling through the settlements. At one time
going from Mayfield, Sanpete Co., to Salina,
Sevier Co., in company with "Sister Eliza,"
the driver mistook the way, and they were
lost in the mountains for some hours, where
there was no road or track of man or beast,
and they were jostled and shaken about fear-
fully, besides not knowing whether they wonld
reach a human habitation before nightfall. At
another time, coming through the mountain
canons from Provo valley, the snow storm was
so severe that it was almost impossible to travel
at all; but Mrs. Horne and her traveling com-
panion, Mrs. Howard, were wrapped in quilts,
over all their own wraps, and had a wagon
cover fastened securely around them, to protect
them from the inclement weather, as they were
journeying in an open vehicle. To those who
may think it all pleasure so to travel among the
people and speak in public, these facts will be
educational, as we often hear of people saying,
"Oh, these women, they like that sort of thing;
it's from choice they tramp over the country
and speak on the platform." It is a stern
sense of duty, and not pleasure, that induces
our women to take up this heavy cross. And
indeed, what else should tempt them? They
have happy homes and pleasant surroundings,
they do not speak for money, they are not paid
for the service they render the people, and
therefore one may naturally conclude they are
working for Zion just as faithfully as the El-
ders who go out to preach the Gospel, only in
another department of the labor.
	In concluding this little historic review of
the life of one of the leading women of the
Church, we cannot refrain from saying it is a
satisfaction to present the incidents of such
lives to the public, that the young people grow-
ing up around us may know what kind of
women helped to lay the foundation of this
Latter-day work.
	November 20th was the anniversary of Mrs.


Horne’s birthday, and a few of her friends
spent a pleasant evening at her residence. She
was presented by the ladies with a very hand-
some photograph album, with the promise of a
picture from each one of them, to make the
group complete. Congratulatory remarks were
made by several of the ladies present, and
toasts given by Mayor Jennings and Judge
Miner, the lady herself responding in a very
happy and appreciative manner. Mr. and
Mrs. Horne have been married over forty-six
years, and there is every prospect that they
will be able to celebrate their “golden wed-
ding." May peace, prosperity, and domestic
felicity continue to be their lot in life, and
an eternal exaltation hereafter be the reward
of their faithful labors.	E.	B.	W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS INNAUVOO
				——
	       BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				——
   By some it may be thought an excess of sen-
timent in me to publish extracts from so many
of my parents’ letters, and I will here just say
that I have not done so for the mere pleasure
of rehearsing them, for I felt a delicacy in so
doing, and had it not been for the urgent re-
quest of others, who expressed their pleasure in
readiug them, I should have ceased long since.
   The correspondence from May 21st till June
30th, 1844, contains some interesting items,
which will no doubt be read with unusual in-
terest at this peculiar period of our history.
   It was understood before my father left for
the East, that my mother should accompany
George J. Adams to Philadelphia, where she
was to meet him, and that I should go, too, if
sufficient means could be procured. We were
to start by the 1st of July. My mother, Wil-
liam and myself accompanied father to the
steamer, and remained on board till it started.
When we parted he said to me, “Come with
your ma if you can, but I beg you not to stand
in the way of her coming but do all you can
to help her oft.” I had a great desire to go
back and make a visit; besides, I wanted to
see something of the world, and my feelings
were sorely tried, as well as my weak faith; in
fact, I was considerably disaffected, and like
many of our youth in these valleys, I imagined
that all was fair and beautiful without, and
that there my days would be one round of
pleasures; at all events, I was’ bound to go
whenever my mother went. She was feeble in
health and one or more of the little boys were
sick, and withal there seemed an unusual
gloom, or foreboding of something, they knew
not what. The following I extract from a let-
ter commenced at Legrand, Missouri. Father
writes:
   “ Although I bade you farewell this morning,
* * * no tongue could express my feelings.
What a pleasure it would have been if I could
have left you and the children well, and my
heaven on earth in less confusion—for my
home is my heaven here; but it was not so.
How my heart beats with sorrow and pain; I
feel as though it would melt within me. Every
thread and fibre in my body feel it so keenly.
It seems, sometimes, as though I could not en-
dure the things that lie before me; but God is
able to do all things for us, so hold on, my
dear Vilate, for my sake and those little chil-
dren that He has given us. O how I felt when
I left them! Before I began this letter I left
the boat and went on top of a mountain, and
offered up a prayer to the Lord, that peace
might be with us forever. 	*	*	*	
 “ 22d. We are at the mouth of the Mis-
souri river. I feel very unwell this morning—
did not get much sleep. I was conversing with
a lawyer from Pittsburg till near twelve o’clock,
and laid down on the table and took cold—the

[Column 2]
staterooms were all full when we got on. The
lawyer with whom I conversed said he was
confounded, and that I had knocked out all of
his props, and he was almost persuaded to be a
Christian—he should vote for Joseph Smith,
any how. He said I was one of the strangest
men that he had ever met. 	* *  *	 Elders
Wite, Miller and Dr. Young delivered speeches
on politics. It has been business times on
board this boat, but all good natured. This
morning we have taken the election, the difier-
ent candidates for President: For Joseph
Smith, four ladies and sixty-three gents; for
Clay, six ladies and twenty-seven gents; for
Van Buren, two ladies and thirteen gents; for
Cass, one; for Birny, two; Johnson. none;
Calhoun, none.
   There are one hundred and seventy passen-
gers, seventeen cabin passengers. Mormonism
is the topic this morning. I will be obliged to
stop writing for confusion.
   “ 23d. It was twelve o’clock when I got
into bed last night. William Smith came on
board before I was up. We have taken a boat
bound for Pittsburg—the best on the river. If
I could just look in and say good morning, and
see. that pleasant smile I so often get, and those
little children I so dearly love, what a comfort
it would be. I hope you will come with Elder
Adams; start by the 1st of July, lest the water
gets low. Remember me to Helen and Sarah
Ann Whitney, and tell them to be good girls
and cultivate union, and listen to counsel from
the proper source—then they will get the vic-
tory.”
   He wrote from Pittsburg, saying they ar-
rived May 30. They had had much peace and
good feeling, had preached four times between
there and St. Louis, and conversed most of the
time when awake upon religion and politics.
When he left us he had but fifty cents in
money, and he sent us things that cost nearly
twelve dollars, by Mr. Halliday, a merchant of
Nauvoo. He wrote in this letter: “ While at
Cincinnatti I had eleven dollars given me, with
which I bought the groceries, etc., which I sent
you, so you see how good the Lord is to us all
the day long. We held a meeting last night;
Elder Smith and myself spoke. We leave
here at two o’clock for Washington.”
   He wrote William a letter, dated Washing-
ton, June 3d, saying: “We arrived in this
city last evening just as the sun was setting.
We stopped one night in Cincinnatti. In the
morning at eight o’clock held a Conference,
and left at ten. Those who were on board at
Nauvoo came through with us to Pittsburg.
They were very hard on us when we went on
board, but after conversing with them became
very friendly, and said if that was the religion
we believed they would bid us God-speed, for it
was what they believed.
   “ We stopped one night at Pittsburg. Elder
William Smith and myself preached that night.
Next morning took steamer up the Monongo-
hela seventy-two miles, then took coach to this
place—were twelve days and a half coming.
We put up at the National Hotel—the best
house in the city. This is where the Prophet
stopped when here. Elder Wite and myself
went one "mile east of the Capitol, to one Mr.
Linsly’s, one of the richest men in Washing-
ton. His wife is a member of our church, and
also one of his servants. The old gentleman
took us through his vineyard and garden—has
all kinds of grapes and fruit trees. He has be-
tween two and three millions of silk worms; it
was a great sight. He is a friend to us and
likes our doctrine. When we left they invited
us to .come and make our home with them while
in the city.  *  *  *	 Judge Douglas
came in last evening and had a long chat with
us; says he will do anything for us that we
wish—will give us an introduction to several of
the Congressmen to-day. Says there is no
prejudice towards us in this place of any ac-

[Column 3]
count; all there is, is among the ignorant class.
Elder Pratt left here one week ago, Elder
Hyde has been gone some time. We feel well
in mind. 	* *  *  We went to see Judge
Douglas this morning; he was not well, so we
returned. The only time to get an interview
with these men is in the evening. *  *  *
   “ Now, my dear son, be tender with your
mother, for she is a kind mother; be patient
and mild, and use soft words. Also be kind
to Helen and the little boys; be a father to
them, and keep them out of the wet, and take
good care of your own health. Tell Mary to
do the same. I esteem her as my own daugh-
ter. Do not go hungry, nor in want, for I in-
tend that my family shall have what they need
for their comfort while I live. As wo have
only one life here, so let us do good and serve
the Lord with pure hearts, and speak evil of no
man. I have no fears but you will take good
care of things. I want you and Helen to
write me; Tell her I shall write to her when
I get time; I think much about her. It is
now twelve o’clock, and we are going up to the
Capitol.”
   The following is from another letter, dated
June 4th. Father says: " We went this morn-
ing to see Judge Sample—he is from Alton,
Illinois. He appeared friendly while with
him. There was another Judge came in; said
he, “Joe Smith has sent out fifty of his smart-
est men to preach his —— doctrine, and to
electioneer for him.” Said he had heard some
of them preach, and they were smart men.
Judge Sample asked him if he had ever seen
Joseph Smith. He answered he never had.
“ Judge, he is a Smart man,” said Sample; “ I
have one of his ' views,’ which is very good.”
Said he, “ These men are some of his (Smith’s)
society." “ Ah, indeed, are they ? Will Smith
get any votes in Illinois ?” Said Judge Sample,
“ They go strong in the West for him,”  *  *
It is all politics in the East, Congress has spent
three days on it; but it seems all stuff to me.
I cannot take any pleasure in these things any
more than I can in the religion of the sects-
   “ I feel humble and to cleave unto the Lord.
I can bear testimony that He is good to me all
the day long. I suffer less from fear than 
have hitherto done- I feel different, and as
though I had authority given me from God to
speak as though I had been sent of God, and
not as the scribes. After all, I suffer some be-
fore these great men; still they know nothing
of God, all they know is about the politics of
this world, and what is that ? Why, it is like
the sectarian religion, part true and part un-
true ; but a little more not true than true.”
			To be Continued.


SOME statistics that appear in the Figaro
show the extraordinary cost of a war to a Lon-
don daily paper. Outsiders consider that a
business of this kind is profitable to the owners
of journals; but it is in fact, for the most part,
ruinously expensive; nor can the increase
which may be presumed to take place in the
circulation of any possibility make up for the
cost of telegraphic despatches from the seat of
war. "Just now," says the Fiyaro, "by the
best available route, the London dailies have
to pay seven shillings and two pence for their
telegrams. The lowest average of the daily
paper is £1,000 per week; and the Standard
account is probably much higher." The Egyp-
tian campaign, too, has been more than usually
costly to the papers; for the correspondents
have been prevented from telegraphing their
messages in "skeleton" or condensed form;
whence it is not to be wondered at that "a col-
umn of leaded messages in a daily paper aver-
ages from £200 to £250," nor that "had the
Egyptian war lasted a year, the total sum
spent altogether, extra from ordinary expenses,
would have amounted to upwards of 50,000"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 99


TO ARCHIE AND LOUISE.

And so you have been to the Temple;
	'Tis years since I've seen you, dear boy,
But your mother's kind letters inform me;
	I wish you great pleasure and joy.

I know 'tis a hackneyed expression,
	With which careless lips often part,
But now, I repeat it in earnest.
	From the depths of a truth-loving heart.

I remember a shy little urchin,
	Whose affections were mine, all secure;
And now—he's a man—and is married—
	How time passes by, to be sure!

Please tell the young lady, the loved one,
	To whom you now fondly lay claim
You once had a favorite auntie,
	Called, then, by a similar name.

And tell her that aunt now expresses
	A tender regard for the twain,
So lately made one, and she wishes
	Their "honeymoon" never may wane.

It will not, if both can but cherish
	Sweet confidence, patience and trust
And guarding against selfish feelings,
	Be gen'rous as truly as just.

Of course you have married "an angel"—
	I believe young men always do this—
And to her, you're the "noblest of heroes,"
	Else, where is perfection in bliss?

Aut consider, when in the near future
	Some little misdoing occurs,
And you find she is only a woman,
	'Twas your mistake, surely, not hers.

Don't censure her, then, for not being
	What she never professed to have been;
Be as anxious to keep her affections
	As once you were eager to win.

If you're young, I suppose she is younger;
	Both, at times, will be certain to err;
But while you yourself are imperfect,
	Expect not perfection in her.

Don't think it is childish to praise her,
	Let whispers and actions both tell,
That ever, in your estimation,
	Her graces are sure to excel.

As honest with her as with others;
	Give credit for all that she earns;
Encourage her efforts to please you,
	By compliments, and—by returns.

Should you differ at times, yet be humble,
	And ready at once to forgive;
Set your wife an untarnished example,
	And live as you wish her to live.

Louise, keep on thinking, forever,
	You've married the very best man;
You have chosen to stand as his helpmate,
	So help him as much as you can.

Don't speak of his faults, but his virtues
	Be first to acknowledge and praise;
Help love to grow surer and stronger,
	By thousands of sweet, happy ways.

I had not a thought of advising,
	When seated to hastily write,
And now, both my babies are sleepy—
	Dear niece and dear nephew, goodnight!

Salt Lake City, February, 1882.				LULA.


[Column 1]
AN HONEST WOMAN'S VIEWS.

OHIO, Nov. 10, 1882.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Your little paper coming to us is a source of
great pleasure, and, I think we can truly say,
of much profit; for anything that breaks down
prejudice and bigotry does good, and benefits
not only those immediately concerned, but the
good will, eventually, leaven the whole lump.
Years ago the word "Mormonism" expressed
to me all that was wicked, low and revolting,

[Column 2]
and I would, like Joan of Arc, have led the
troops to destroy the Mormon church. To-day
I, though not fully persuaded in my own mind
that you are really. as you claim, God's chosen
people, am willing to calmly investigate your
claims, and to openly defend you when bitter
words are spoken, by persons who know you
only through the reports of your enemies. All
Christendom takes the Bible as the standard
measure for churches; applying it to the Mor-
mon church, we find,
	1st, You believe in God, the Creator of all
things, and in Jesus, His Son, who died to re-
deem the world.
	2d, You preach faith, repentance, and obe-
dience to divine commands as laid down in
God's Holy Word.
	3d, You have gone into all the world to
preach to every creature.
	4th, You have come out from the world to
be a "peculiar people."
	So far, at least, according to the measure-
ment, you are right. Now, according to scrip-
ture, we must judge a tree by its fruits—"men
do not gather grapes of thorns, nor figs of this-
tles." What are your fruits? Do you show
forth the fruits of the Spirit? (Gal. v.) A few
unprejudiced persons throughout the country
are willing to have the question fairly tested,
and as nearly every daily "News" we pick up
has some reference to the Mormons (something,
generally, against them), the public mind is
turned toward them, and many persons, with a
sense of fair judgment, do not believe the mere
say so of your enemies, but are led to inquire
if these things are so.
	The readers of to-day's Cincinnatti Gazette
will find an extract from the Salt Lake Tri-
bune; many will roll it as a sweet morsel under
the tongue, as proof that the Mormons are a I-
told-you-so-terrible set of people, forgetting,
meanwhile, that such bad things, just such bad
things are being done here, right here within
the grand old State of Ohio, all the time.
	Perhaps it was true that "a Mormon gave
the children of his first wife away to unkind
strangers, and cared not for their welfare," but
was it because he was a Mormon?
	One of my neighbors (being a widower)
married a second wife. The daughter of his
first wife was an innocent, simple-hearted girl,
and an annoyance to the second wife, so went
from home to earn her living, notwithstanding
her father was wealthy. A young man took
advantage of the girl's simplicity, and she be-
came a mother. The stepmother gave her no
care, forced her to go to work in a few days
after her child was born; she died, and was
buried without any funeral or attention.
	The whole family are strict Catholics, but
no one charged the crime to the Catholic
church. They were wickedly selfish, unfeeling
persons, and would have been so if they had
not belonged to any church, or if they had
chanced to belong to any one of the orthodox
churches.
	I used to hear a burlesque sermon preached
from the text, "A mon ish a mon if he ish no
pigger ish my thume." 'Tis true, if a man is,
by nature, bad, Christianity, Catholicism, Mor-
monism, or any other ism, will not make him
worse. He is an injury to religion, but the re-
ligion cannot injure him (unless he becomes a
bigot); neither should a religion be condemned
because of his badness.
	Right is right, and wrongs no man. The
Tribune may, by constantly drawing public at-
tention to the Mormon church, lead many
thinking minds to inquire closely into its work-
ings, and if it can bear the examination, well
and good—"If this counsel or this work be of
men, it will come to naught; but if it be of
God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be
found even to fight against God." Acts v.
		With good wishes,
							EMILY SCOTT.


ART.

RESURRECTION.

	A beautiful painting, said to be the first on
a sacred subject ever taken from the ruins of
the buried cities, has been discovered at Pom-
peii. A correspondent describing the picture,
says: "On a dais sits a king holding a sceptre,
and robed in white. On each side of him sits
a councillor, and behind them six soldiers un-
der arms. The king is leaning over the front
of the dais toward a woman in a green robe,
who kneels before him with dishevelled hair
and outstretched hands. In the centre is a
three-legged table, like a butcher’s block, upon
which lies an infant, who is held in a recum-
bent position, in spite of his struggles, by a
woman wearing a turban. A soldier in armor,
and wearing a helmet with a long red plume,
holds the legs of the infant, and is about to
cleave it in two with his falchion. The agony
of the kneeling mother, the attention of the
listening king, and the triumph of the second
woman, who gloats over the division of the
child, are all manifest."


KISSES ON INTEREST.

	A father, talking to his careless daughter,
said: "I want to speak to you for your mother.
It may be that you have noticed a care-worn
look upon her face lately. Of course it has not
been brought there by any act of yours; still it
is your duty to chase it away. I want you to
get up to-morrow morning and get breakfast:
and when your mother comes and begins to ex-
press her surprise, go right up to her and kiss
her on the mouth. You can't imagine how it
will brighten her dear face. Besides, you owe
her a kiss or two. Away back, when you were
a little girl, she kissed you when no one else
was tempted by your fever-tainted breath and
swollen face. You were not as attractive then
as you are now. And through those years of
childish sunshine and shadows she was always
ready to cure, by the magic of a mother's kiss,
the little, dirty, chubby hands whenever they
were injured in those first skirmishes with the
world. And then the midnight kiss with
which she routed so many bad dreams, as she
leaned above your restless pillow, have all been
on interest these long, long years. Of course
she is not so pretty and kissable as you are,
but if you had done your share of the work
during the last ten years the contrast would not
be so marked. Her face has more wrinkles
than yours, far more; and yet if you were sick
that face would appear more beautiful than an
angel's as it hovered over you, watching every
opportunity to minister to your comfort, and
every one of those wrinkles would seem to be
bright wavelets of sunshine chasing each other
over the dear face. She will leave you one of
these days. These burdens, if not lifted from
her shoulders, will break her down. Those
rough, hard hands that have done so many
necessary things for you, will be crossed upon
her lifeless breast. Those neglected lips that
gave you your first baby kiss, will be forever
closed, and those sad, tired eyes will have been
opened in eternity, and then you'll appreciate
your mother; but it will be too late.—Centre-
ville (Md.) Record.


﻿IT is the men who possess no real respect for
woman, no thought for her highest mental or
moral developement that have always prated
most about the necessity of "protecting woman"
by hindering her development through legisla-
tive enactment. It is the men who look upon
women with lustful eyes that fear her indepen-
dent existence, either socially or politically,
lest she be no longer a dependent upon their
unholy demands.—H. M. Gougar.


100	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	DECEMBER 1,1882


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S RIGHT OF DOWER.

	The right of dower in Utah has been the
theme of much discussion in private and public,
in the press of the country and among the offi-
cials of the Territory. They acknowledge they
are sore on this subject, and think it an outrage
to the people that the right of dower should have
been abolished by the Legislature of Utah. Any
rational person who examines the ground care-
fully, without prejudice, would say at once that
the statutes of Utah as regards married women
and widows, is far in advance of the right of
dower as existing in most of the States of the
Union.
	In Utah woman holds her own property—her
husband cannot touch it; in most of the States
the husband can not only squander his wife's
income, but he can collect her earnings and
squander it at the gaming table or in the grog-
shop, just as he pleases or chooses. Not long
since, a lady related to the writer a little incident
illustrative of the very deplorable condition of
woman's right to her own earnings. The lady
was traveling on the train. She was a student
of human nature, and had noticed a very pale,
delicate-looking girl, sensitive and shrinking,
with a book in her hand; the lady was interested
in the appearance of the child, and opened a
conversation with her by inquiring where she
was going? She answered to the next village;
her father was with her, going on to collect her
week's earnings. He was a dissipated, brutal-
looking man. The child was deformed, had a
hunch on her poor back, and she looked weary
of life. She said her mother earned a little
money towards supporting the family by taking
in washing, but her father was cruel, and there
was no law to prevent his taking her hard earn-
ings from the factory and using them for his
own gratification. Is it any wonder that the in-
telligent women of the world want the ballot,
in order to get the laws remodeled, and better
the condition of the industrious working-classes,
that they may not be the prey of the indolent,
the dissipated or cruel?
	This is only one instance of the thousands
that occur every day, and yet women whose
"lives are cast in pleasant places," sit at their
ease, in blissful ignorance of the laws and gov-
erments, because, forsooth, a strong arm shelters
them from care and hardship, and so they ex-
claim, "We have all the rights we want."
	The right of dower is no more nor less than a
sort of vassalage, and a relic of the old common
law of England, and through this came the ap-
pelation relict, as applied to the wife after her
husband's decease; a word which, from its as-
sociation in that sense, is specially distasteful to
independent women. In the statutes of Utah
woman is a person; she can hold and convey
property, and she has the same right to do so
that her husband has. We give below the sec-
tions as laid down in the Revised Statutes of
Utah, and let every woman consider and judge

[Column 2]
for herself whether this is not preferable to the
right of dower, which strictly speaking means
one-third of her husband's estate, for she has
none of her own in law, and that very estate
may have come as a legacy to her from her
father or other relative, or it may be much of it
her own accumulated hard earnings. Here is
the enactment:
	(1020.) SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor
and Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Utah: That all property owned by either spouse
before marriage, and that acquired after by gift,
bequest, devise or descent, with the rents, issues
and profits thereof, is the separate property of
that spouse by whom the same is so owned or
acquired, and separate property owned or ac-
quired as specified above, may be held, managed,
controlled, transferred and in any manner dis-
posed of by the spouse so owning or acquiring it
without any limitation or restriction by reason
of marriage.
	(1021.) SEC. 2. Either spouse may sue or be
sued, plead and be impleaded, or defend and be
defended at law.
	(1022.) SEC. 3. No right of dower shall exist
or be allowed in this Territory.—Compiled Laws,
page 342.
	In the laws governing the estates of decedents,
it is provided that:
	"Any married woman may dispose of all her
estate by will, and may alter or revoke the will
in like manner as a person under no disability
might do." (Ibid p. 271.)
	We have not time to enumerate all the points
involved, but, added to the law as it stands re-
corded, the women of Utah have the elective
franchise, and the privilege of voting at all elec-
tions in the Territory. If either of the late
Governors of the Territory had been as "liberal"
as the party title they have taken suggests,
women would have been ere this eligible to
offices of emolument and trust, and some might
for aught we know heve already been elected.
But even under the present conditions, the
women of Utah have more liberties and privi-
leges than those of other States and Territories.
In the "despised Mormon Church" women vote
on all questions the same as men do. This
scarcely accords with the current idea outside,
that Mormon women are oppressed and kept in
bondage.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A RELIEF Society was organized in Oakley,
Cassia Co., Idaho, in September, by Apostles F.
M. Lyman, J. H. Smith and H. J. Grant.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society, Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary Associations will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Fri-
day and Saturday, December 15 and 16.

	WE have received, per A. C., a summary, of
the doings of a party in honor of Mrs. Wilmirth
East's birthday, held at Smithville, Arizona
The affair was under the auspices of the Young
Ladies' Association. Mrs. East was for many
years an active worker in the benevolent socie-
ties and for woman's higher advancement in
this city. Almost four years ago she removed
to Arizona, and presides over the Relief Societies
of Eastern Arizona Stake of Zion.

	THANKSGIVING Day is past, and all the gay
festivities of that happy occasion are over. We
still remember the delights of the elegant din-
ners, served with such hospitality and freedom to
all. There is no people who can appreciate more
fully blessings from heaven than the Latter-day
Saints. They have received miraculous mani-
festations of God's goodness in marvelous ways,
and have ever acknowledged his divine interpo-

[Column 2]
sition in their behalf. Therefore do they praise
Him, and render gratitude and thanksgiving,
and while they are mindful of his mercy ex-
tended to all his creatures, and rejoice in his
munificent blessings, they do not forget that
"obedience is better than sacrifice."

	A SOCIETY of ladies, called the "Unity Club,"
has been organized recently in this city, to work
and to give entertainments for benevolent pur-
poses, notably the Deseret Hospital, two meet-
ings have already been held, and it is expected
an entertainment will be given by the society
sometime between Christmas and New Years,
probably Dec. 29, in the 12th Ward Hall. Presi-
dent of the Society, Mrs. Margaret G. Clawson;
Vice President, Clara J. Young; Secretary,
Emma Riggs; Treasurer, Annie W. Cannon.
There are several committees to arrange for en-
tertainments. The initiatory fee is one dollar
each, and the Club is limited to fifty members.

	ON Thanksgiving Day, in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, Mr. Evan Stephens' classes in
singing were on exhibition, going through their
exercises in an interesting manner, in presence
of the whole assembly. Bro. Stephens gave a
synopsis of his methods of imparting instruction.
The singing by the children was effectively ren-
dered. The writing was a new feature of a mu-
sical exhibition. There has been no pains spared
on the part of the teacher to make the little ones
proficient in this most pleasing and attractive
science. It is a rare opportunity for the children
of Zion to receive musical training, and the cul-
tivation of the voice in childhood is a desirable
attainment. Bro. Stephens deserves patronage
and aid in the arduous labor he has undertaken.

	ANOTHER new book, deserving marked notice,
is a small pamphlet by Elder John Jaques,
"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints—Its Priesthood, Organization, Doctrines,
Ordinances and History." This is given in the
most concise manner, yet clear and forcible, with
references to larger works. The last two pages
contain the testimony of the three witnesses to
the Book of Mormon. It covers more ground
than any other small work, and will be very
useful to give strangers correct ideas of our prin-
ciples and history in a few words. As a sort of
tract for distribution outside the Church, it will
do very great good in spreading the truth. Price
10 cents. For sale at "Deseret News'" Office.

	ON Tuesday morning Hon. George Q. Cannon
left this city for Washington. Hon. John T.
Caine, the Delegate for Utah, also started for
the Capitol, accompanied by F. S. Richards, of
the constitutional delegation. At Ogden they
were joined by D. H. Peery and wife. W. W.
Riter, James Sharp and W. D. Johnson will go
after the busy holidays are over. What Con-
gress will do for Utah, in the way of justice "no
man knoweth." Utah has rights that demand
recognition, though Congress has been exceed-
ingly slow in admitting any claims; it is a a long
road that never turns, and who can tell but In-
advertently something may be done to benefit
this flourishing, enterprising Territory.

	PRIMARY Speaker, No. 1, so long promised to
the smaller children, is now ready. It is particu-
larly well adapted for the use of the little folks
from four to ten years old. The selections are
all of the very best and choicest composition
both poetry and prose, many by home writers.
No pains has been spared by the editor and com-
piler in preparing and arranging this little work
for the press; the type is very large and clear,
and the book should meet with ready sale.
"Sister Eliza" has labored arduously and dili-
gently, early and late, untiringly, in preparing
books for the children, but it has been a labor of
love. This is the fifth of the collection of her


works for the Primary Associations. First the
Primary Hymn Book, then the Music Book,
Bible Questions and Answers, Primary Speaker
No. 2, and now the volume here noticed, No. 1.
The books are for sale at the "Deseret News"
Office and WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Price twenty-
five cents.

	MRS E. L. Saxon, whose visit to Utah we
mentioned in our last number, delivered her lec-
ture on "Women in all Reforms, Past, Present
and Future," on Monday evening, Nov. 27, in
the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms, in this city, to
an interested and appreciative audience. Mrs.
Saxon is a clear and rapid speaker, has a great
flow of language, and throws her whole soul into
her labor. She seems wholly forgetful of self,
but eulogizes her fellow-workers who have done
so much to elevate woman, and through her lift
up mankind. She believes woman's greatest
power for good lies in the ballot, because through
that she becomes a positive factor in law and
law-making, and consequently in education, as
well as in society. The lady is fully awakened
to the sense of the fact that the government
needs props, and believes that the best purifier
and renovator for the present state of things
will be women at the polls. Equality before the
law is what these noble workers are asking at
the hands of government; they have labored ar-
duously, struggled against prejudice, tradition
and various obstacles, but the future brightens
somewhat, for prejudice is giving way and ad-
vancement for the sex is hastening on. Mrs.
Saxon went to Provo on Thursday, with Mrs.
Zina D. Young, to make further observations.
Besides looking over the city, the two ladies at-
tended the Conference of the Primary Associa-
tions and Y. L. M. I. A. of Utah Stake. Mrs.
Saxon has a national reputation. She has trav-
eled and spoken in public in the various States
from Lousiana to Maine. She has had many
flattering newspaper notices from leading jour-
nals. Senator Blair, of New Hampshire, said,
"I consider Mrs. Saxon one of the most talented
ladies in the United States, and among the most
effective speakers I have ever heard."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 101


EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In my article entitled "Personal Experience
which appeared In your issue of Nov. 15, the
following typographical errors occur, which
please correct: Instead of "political polygamists,"
it should read "practical polygamists;" and In-
stead of "how the blessings of the Lord rested
upon the world," "how the blessings of the
Lord rested upon the work."
	Respectfully yours,
						L. G. RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
REFLECTIONS.

	There is a great field for reflection in these pe-
culiar times, and as I sit and meditate upon the
past, and the present, and look forward into the
future, and wonder what will come next, my
mind turns to that good old book, the Bible, that
tells us of these events that will come to pass,
prophesied of many hundred years ago. Are
they coming? Yes, verily, they are, just as the
prophets said they would. How do we look at
all these signs and wonders? Are they not a
great testimony to us that we are the true
Church? I think so. 
	Now, my mind wanders back to my childhood
in that dear old home in the far East, where
everything is beauty. Pen cannot describe nor
picture the grandeur of the scenery of that far-
off home—the orchard, the brook, and the well,
with its heavy bucket and sweep pole, that
raised the cool nectar in the moss-covered bucket
as it rose from the well; the nice, pleasant arbor,

[Column 2]
with the grape vines and honeysuckle twining
over it, the swent-scented lilac and the snow-
ball wafting their sweet perfume, as I sat in the
cool shade on the charming rustic seat, reading
and chatting with fond associates; and the
quaint old church, with its pews with cushioned
seats, its tall steeple with clock and bell, its
stained window glass, long aisles and high pulpit,
where the pastor read his sermon to the congre-
gation each Sabbath; not forgetting the low,
brick schoolhouse, where I first learned to pro-
nounce the a b abs, and progress along to read,
write and spell, and other lessons that are never
forgotten. I muse, what caused me to wander
from those scenes of beauty I loved so well? It
was the love of truth, the desire to be a follower
of Christ, and to obey the Gospel sound, which
was dear to me. The desire to rear my littie
ones away from the influence of the wicked and
of priestcraft in the valleys of the mountains,
amongst the servants of God. My home here
is far lovelier to me, although my thoughts will
wander and travel very rapidly at times. Do I
pine for those scenes? No; my home is with
the Saints of God, no matter where they are. 
	I love my country and I love liberty, that my
forefathers fought to gain. Do we have it? It
seems not. This boasted land of liberty, where
we who were born in America, in a free country,
are not allowed the freedom of the ballot! Our
enemies have wrung it from us. What for? Be-
cause we dare to worship the true and living
God, profess to be Latter-day Saints, obey the
commandments of our Heavenly Father, claim
that the Gospel is again restored to the earth,
believe in a prophet of the last days, and that
the light of truth is never more to be taken
from the earth. I rejoice to be numbered
amongst them, although my friends think I am
deluded and gone astray; but I know in whom
we trust, and at last we will gain the victory,
and then we will have freedom. Whose turn
will it be then? Ah, those who wish to crush us
now, will see when it is too late. 
	A word for this far off corner of Utah. The
health of the people is good, there being but lit-
tle sickness. Our elder brother, Joel H. John-
son, departed this life the 24th of September, at
the advanced age of eighty years, six months
and one day. He was a firm Latter-day Saint,
and has passed through many trials and perse-
cutions. He has fought the good fight, and gone
hence to rest with the just. He leaves a large
family to mourn his loss. 
	Our little Relief Society and Primary are in
a prosperous condition, and all have a desire to
help build up the kingdom of God in these last
days. The last number of the EXPONENT is be-
fore me. In glancing over its columns, many
reflections flit through my mind of former scenes
in the early history of the church, and what we
may have to pass through ere long. We have
no need to fear, our Heavenly Father hath prom-
ised; in Him we trust.
	Johnson, Utah.		JANE C. JOHNSON.


[Column 1]
PRAYER.

MY DEAR SISTERS:
	My heart is filled with gratitude and praise to
my Heavenly Father, for the great blessings He
has vouchsafed to me, and feeling a desire to
write a few lines, I pray that His Spirit may be
given, and dictate to my mind what I shall pen
at this time. There are so many subjects to
write upon, it is difficult to choose one. How-
ever, my mind has been much exercised on
the subject of prayer, and I will, by the aid of
that Spirit which leads and guides into all truth,
offer a few ideas on that subject.
	The words of the poet come forcibly to my
mind, "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire," etc.,

[Column 2]
and what would be the use of praying for what
we do not desire? The promise is our desires
shall be granted if we ask in faith, believing we
shall receive the things for which we ask. How
thankful and humble should we be that we have
a Father in Heaven, who is willing to hear and
answer our prayers, when offered in sincerity
and purity, in the name of Jesus, for He is the
Mediator between the Father and man, and
maketh intercession for us at the Throne of
Grace.
	I often think we should not be discouraged if
our prayers are not answered immediately—
sometimes this is the case, and for a wise pur-
pose. I think one reason is, the Lord desires to
see if we are in earnest; or we may have prayed
for what we ought not, and therefore have
"asked amiss" Again, there are certain times
when we should pray. We are told to pray to
our Father in secret, and the promise is, He will
reward us openly. Again, we are to pray with
our families. And now, dear sisters, I would
urge, if you have not yet begun, and your hus-
bands are not there to attend to this duty, gather
your family together; teach them it is as neces-
sary to ask the Lord for spiritual as bodily food;
teach them what is meant by spiritual food.
Also, inspire their young and tender minds with
faith to believe in receiving the things they ask.
O ye mothers of Israel! take time to instruct
your children in the principles of the Gospel.
What a responsible position we hold! and what
account will we give, if we neglect to instil into
their minds those truths which the Lord has
placed within our reach, and for the use or neg-
lect of the same we are held accountable. Our
children look up to us for counsel, and we should
live so they will see by our every act, in our
every day life, that we are sincere, and that we
practice the principles we desire to teach to
them.
	By restraining prayer we cease to fight, and
there are many opposing spirits abroad in the
earth; also we have our own weaknesses to
overcome. We are required to put on the whole
armor, including the Shield of Faith, etc., using
all dilligence in seeking for the Spirit of God,
which, if cherished in our hearts will grow and
increase in us, and we will become better quali-
fied, and have more strength, to overcome the
many obstacles that lie in our path onward and
upward. We should lay aside everything that
easily besets us, be diligent in business, fervent
in spirit, serving the Lord. There is something
for each to do, many duties to perform, and rais-
ing a large family is not the least; for when we
consider who gave those spirits, and what they
were sent for, it should incite us to train them
up in the fear of the Lord, that when they are
old they may not depart from it. Blessed, in
the morning of the resurrection, will that parent
be, and her children will rise up and call her
blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.
That this may be the happy lot of all the faith-
ful mothers in Zion, is the prayer of your sister
in the Gospel,					E. R. C.
	Lehi, Oct. 18, 1882.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

RICHMOND, NOV. 8, 1882.

DEAR EDITOR:
	As we always desire to aid, in our humble way
the work of the Lord, we feel to mingle our
voices with the valuable efforts of your corres-
pondents, who so ably strive for the truth.
Every number of the EXPONENT seems to out-
vie the preceding one in interest and worth;
truly our sisters are becoming noble defenders of
righteousness and virtue; and we can say, "God
moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to per-
form." Truth is mighty and it will prevail, and


woman is nobly performing her part in the great
arena.
	On June 24th I sent a communication on our
annual meeting of the Relief Society of June 4;
as it has not appeared in your columns I presume
it has been mislaid; we may be deemed negli-
gent, I thought a few lines would not be amiss.
Our meeting was held as usual, the Bishop and
his Counselors being present; had an excellent
time, and good instructions were given us. Our
reports were good; the Relief Society house not
being completed, they were not as concise as we
should have liked. Considering all things, we
are doing well; there not many poor among us,
and the sisters are ever ready and willing to aid
and assist, with few exceptions.
	Yesterday was election day; we had a pleasant
time, the weather being fine and the brass band
making times lively, while peace and cheerful-
ness reigned within our homes. We felt that
our Father in Heaven was at the helm, guiding
the good ship Zion to her noble destiny.
					A. J. MERRIL, Pres't.
					BETSY BROWER, Sec'y, R. S.


102	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Sister Jane P. Sharp, wife of Bishop John Sharp, de-
parted this life the 25th of August, 1882. She was born
June 26, 1819, in Blackmannanshire, Scotland. Emi-
grated to Utah In 1850. She was the mother of twelve
children, and grandmother of twenty-eight children.
She joined the Church in Scotland, her native country,
May 24, 1847.
	Mrs. Sharp was chosen First Counselor to Mrs. Mar-
garet Smoot at the first organization of the Relief So-
ciety of the Twentieth Ward. When Sister Smoot
moved to Provo, Mrs. Sharp was acting President for a
number of years, but on account of her poor health, she
resigned her office. She was a most devoted wife and a
kind, loving mother, and died in full faith of the Gospel
and of a glorious resurrection.
						JANE MILLER, President,
R. S. 20th Ward.			MARGARET SHARP, Sec'y.

	It is with feelings of sincere regret and affectionate
remembrance that we chronicle tha death of our es-
teemed friend and sister, Jane James, who passed away
from earth quietly and peacefully, surrounded by her
family and kind friends, on the afternoon of September
10, 1882, in the fifty-first year of her age, to join the
heavenly hosts and the loved ones gone before.
	Deceased was a native of Shrewsbury, Shropshire,
England; joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints when quite young, and emigrated to Utah
with her husband In 1853. They first settled in Draper
ville, but shortly after moved to Paradise, Cache Co.
where her husband, David James, held the office of
Bishop for several years. They were among the first
settlers of that place, and she patiently endured the
trials and hardships incident to the settling of a new
country, ever thanking her Heavenly Father that she
had the privilege of hearing and receiving the Gospel
and gathering with the Saints. At the organization of
the Relief Society of Paradise she was chosen President,
which position she held until she removed with her fam-
ily to Salt Lake City in 1873, where they located in the
Seventh Ward. When the Primary Association was or-
ganized in that ward, she was called to fill the position
of First Counselor, which office she held until her death
Sister James was a faithful wife, a true and loving
mother, a sincere and faithful friend, and a pure, hum-
ble, practical Latter-day Saint. Through her whole life
she was governed entirely by a conscientious regard or
principle and a love for all that ia pure, elevating and
ennobling. She leaves a husband, four children, one
grandchild and a host of relatives and friends to mourn
her loss.—COM.

	Died, at Richmond, Oct. 23,1882, of pneumonia, Ro-
sina Shepard Fyers, after eleven days' Illness, which she
bore with great fortitude; her faith in the Gospel of
Christ was firm to the end. Sister Fyers was President
of the teachers quorum in the Relief Society. Her ener-
gies were ever devoted to the good of the poor, filling
her office with honor as a Saint of God; she will come
forth at the resurrection of the just. She was born


January 21, 1829, in Denmark, Fur's Co., State of New
York; was the daughter of Isaac and Sarah Shepard, and
was baptized into the Church when quite a child.

RESOLUTIONS.

	Be it resolved, That we, as members of the Relief So-
ciety, deeply monrn the loss of our beloved sister and
co-laborer, and we sincerely sympathise with her hus-
band, children and relatives in their loss, intermingled
with the knowledge that it is her true gain, and rejoice
to know that if we follow in her footsteps, and are
faithful, we shall meet again where sorrow cannot
come.

She's gone, and our hearts feel the smart,
	Our friend from our bosom is torn;
The sweet ties that bound us are broke,
	And nature compels us to mourn.
But oh, transporting delight!
	To think of our meeting again,
When, clothed in our robes clean and white,
	We'll meet thee, Rosina, again.
						FRANCIS TRAVELLER,
						MARY ALLSOP,
						BETSY BROWER,
									Committee.


[Column 1]
﻿R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

Y. L. M. I. A. PROVO.

	Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Utah
Stake held in the Provo Meeting House, Aug.
31 1882. President Emily Cluff presiding.
Present on the stand Pres. Elmina S. Taylor,of
S. L. Pres. Emily G. Cluff, Counselors Zina
Y. Williams and Jennie Tanner, Sister M. T.
Smoot. After the opening exercises, the re-
ports of 13 societies were given which were
very satisfactory and showed marked improve-
ment. Counselor Zina Yi Williams said, she
did not see a face before her, but what she
knew, and through these associations had
learned to love. Now is one of the most trying
times we have ever had, and we know it is nec-
essary to attend to our duties. We hear
through all the counties, the same cry, that
not enough of the members come to meeting,
but we see those that do, have intelligent ideas
and desire io gain more experience by associat-
ing with others that do go. There is not a soul
in God's kingdom but what has something to
do, and we can accomplish more than any
other nation on earth, for we are, or ought to
be, one and all working for the same object.
	President E. S. Taylor said, she felt acquain-
ted with most of the faces, and felt proud of
Utah Stake for it was the only county in which
they had visited every place. We do not want
to have too much education of the world, but
to come to these meetings and learn of God.
Our old veterans are passing away and we want
these young ladies to take their place. Was
pleased to hear some of them say they had good
testimony meetings, but would not frighten the
young ladies away on account of their speak-
ing, but tell them they need not speak till they
feel like they want too. She spoke on the
Hospital business, and prayed for the Spirit of
God to rest down upon us.
	Sister M. T. Smoot was pleased and over-
joyed with meeting with them, and exhorted
her sisters to continue on in well doing, and if
she could be allowed the expression, that if all
hell was arrayed against us, if we trusted in
the Lord, they could not harm us; and if we
did right all our clouds would have a broad
silver lining. Pres. Emily G. Cluff said she
felt sorry to see so few present, and that they
were nearly all officers with us, and if we can-
not have them any other way, we will have to
make them all officers. Then gave the remain-
der of the meeting open to testimonies. Meet-
ing adjourned till 2 p. m., singing "We thank
thee O, God for a Prophet. Benediction by
Zina Y. Williams.
	Meeting held per adjournment singing "We
thank thee O, God for Prophet," 'prayer by

[Column 2]
Elder Robert Till, singing "I'll serve the Lord"
Miss Annie Smart recited a peice "Utah what
it was, what it is and what it shall be."
	Pres. E. S. Taylor said,she was pleased to meet
with them again in Conference, for it was so
pleasing to see the young sisters going on and
helping in the work of God. Nothing can be
more sad than to see our daughters taking the
downward course. but our joy cannot be told
when we see them going on and improving
in this way, and these young ladies must be on
the improvement so as to make them better
wives and better mothers in Israel, for these
daughters raise our future prophets, seers, rev-
elators and missionaries; girls, keep good com-
pany, have nothing to do with our enemies, if
they are sick administer to them, if they are
hungry feed them, but that is all. They pity
the down-trodden women of Israel. Now in
my heart I feel to pity them, be gentlemen and
ladies in every respect, but do not associate with
them. Look around you and see those who
have married [outside of the Church, see how
their happiness fades, go before the Lord my
dear sisters, and ask Him to find you the right
mate. There are some of us who associate with
folks who appear to be our warmest friends,
but when they leave this pure mountain air
and go back where there is so much said
against us, they turn away from us and help
misrepresent us; therefore my sisters be inde-
pendent, and if you think you cannot find good
company go by yourself and always keep in
remembrance that improvement is our motto
and perfection our aim.
	Encouraging remarks were then made by
Sisters Zina Y. Williams and Prest. Emily G.
Cluff, who urged the sisters to treasure up the
words which had been spoken, for it would
prove an untold blessing to them. Urged
them to keep in mind the Hospital and silk
business. Meeting adjourned for six months.
Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing." Benediction by Elder J. T. Arrowsmith.
				EMILY G. CLUFF, Prest.
				ANNIE L. JONES, Sec'y.
	Provo City, October 9.


SUGGESTIONS ABOUT TRAINING
BOYS.

	In the nature of almost every boy there are
four powerful infllittlees at work, which tend
if they are wisely used, to strengthen or weaken
his moral character, viz
	1. His restlessness, or desire to be doing
something, which is the cause of many of his
troubles (and of his mother's also).	
	2. His great craving for companionship, and
what he calls "fun," which seems to be a nec-
essity to most, healthy boys.
	3. His fear of ridicule, which in many boys
is so great that they can be induced to sin
against conscience and stomach in order to es-
cape it.
	4. The desire to be or to appear manly.
	The boy carries these four influences with
him always, and it is a contest between us and
Satan as to who shall control them, and the
boy’s fate depends much on the issue of this
contest. He is worth all the bravest efforts
that can be made in his behalf. He is worth
more than all the gold or honor or station you
can win.
	If you love him more than you love these
things, and even than you love yourself or
your own ease and comfort, you can, with the
Lord’s help, hold him safe against " the world,
the flesh, and the devil." But you must be
"wise as serpents." Too much restraint will
chafe and embitter. Too little is sure to end
in ruin.
	You must make your child happy, for it is
true " that discontent is the cause of the most
of the wickedness in the world." You must
let him see that you eagerly desire his happi-


[Column 1]
﻿ness, and that he has your warmest sympathies
in his efforts to find it. If he sees that you
put off his gratification to suit your own con-
venience, he will suspect your lack of sympa-
thy. If he sees you break your promise to
him, or grant him an indulgence that you have
said was improper for him, he will doubt your
sincerity. If he sees you guilty of "make-
believes," or false pretensions, or shams of any
sort whatever, you have lost his confidence
and respect, and may expect soon to lose his
affection and then to lose your hold of him.
	Children are very close and shrewd observ-
ers of human nature, and not easily deceived.
Your only hope is in dealing honestly and sin-
cerely with them. But how shall you make
them happy? I have asked this question a
thousand times in school, and my answer is, by
keeping them occupied in pleasurable employ-
ments.
	Boys love to play, and that is your great last
resort. But they also love to work, at things
they can do specially well. Then do you see
to it, when you give them work to do, or a les-
son to learn, that you show them how to do it
really well, and then accept it as well done. A
school becomes restive and unhappy whenever
there is not enough work to keep the pupils
busy, or when they do not know how to do it.
Let all your instructions and directions be
clearly stated, and do not cut out too much
work, but insist upon having every task that
has been assigned fully and thoroughly exe-
cuted.
	You must make them your companions. The
boy who is in love with his mother and sister,
and looks upon his father as the very king of
men, cannot easily be won away from them.
But he must be met half way, for if he feels
that he is only tolerated as a nuisance, and finds
himself charged with all the little offenses that
have been committed, he will be powerfully
tempted to meet your expectations and make
your bill of indictment a true one. Make him
feel, at home, he is more than the prince of the
blood, that his wants and wishes are always
worth considering, and that even his opinion
and good-will are of some worth. Knit him
to you by ties of a kind that Satan cannot
knit. You have possession of the citadel;
why should you be driven from it? It can
only be by your own fault. Loyalty to you is
deep-rooted in your boy's nature, and if you
are wise and alert he cannot be seduced from
his allegiance to you.
	Do you know what is the most common
weakness displayed by boys? It is a fear that
their manhood is questioned, accompanied by
an overwhelming desire to vindicate it. To be
ridiculed as a "muff," or sneered at as a "baby,"
or a "mamma boy," is often enough to make
him try tobacco, although he knows it will
make him deathly sick; or fight, or swear, or
other things equally repugnant to his nature,
and all because he feels that something of the
sort is necessary to establish his manliness.
Some people laugh at such things, and some,
rather more severe in their judgments, say that
such nousense shonld be thrashed out of them.
The fact is, the most spirited boys, under such
trials, deserve the profoundest sympathy; for in
most cases, they have not been properly trained
and fortified to resist such powerful tempta-
tions. I have known boys, when subjected to
them, to observe a calm and cool indifference
to sneer and laugh, but it was because they
were conscious of strength or skill which soon
made them recognized as leaders.
	Last, and most important of all, you must
give your boy sound religious instruction, for
nothing else is so essential to his safety and
usefulness amid the temptations and struggles
of life. But there is a wise and unwise way of
imparting it. Do not let Sunday be a dread
day to him, but make it bright by reason of

[Column 2]
your special and most loving attention to your
children, and your sweetest little ways of en-
tertaining them. It will be hard on you, but
God will love you for it, and your children will
remember it gratefully and lovingly, long years
after you rave crossed the river.—PROF. H. L.
HOOVER.						Ex.—


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 103


A STRANGER'S VIEWS.

	The following is from a private letter to a
friend in the East, from an intelligent mercan-
tile gentleman who has traveled much in the
Territories, and knows little about Mormons,
except as he reads of them in the newspapers.
We are indebted to the courtesy of a leading
man in one of the most popular States for the
paragraph we publish here. It is good to
know there are some high-minded, honorable
men who do not believe all the reports made of
Utah and its people.
	"In all my travels I have never seen any-
thing to compare with the Mormon towns.
Their homes are neat and clean, their houses
well built and attractive, their streets are broad
and full of trees, their people respectful, sober
and industrious. Wherever I find a Mormon
town, there do I see evidences of prosperity
and refinement far in advance of anything
west of the Missouri river. In fact, one would
have to go east of the Mississippi a long dis-
tance to find as beautiful towns or as lovely
homes as in Brigham City and Logan. At the
latter place yesterday I went all through, and
on top of the new Temple, that is almost com-
pleted at a cost of six hundred thousand dol-
ars. Built upon a hill, within the shadow of
snow-capped mountains, it stands a monument
of patient industry and beautiful workman-
ship. It is all made of native rock and lum-
ber.
	Nov. 12,1882."


ORATION OF SAMUEL PEABODY, Esq.,
ON THE QUESTION OF THE
HOUR.

	Neibours and Fellow citizens—You see be-
fore you to-day a heart-broken man. Our
wives are on the revolt. I've been afeared for
a long time we were gwine tu have a revuli-
tion, and now I'm sure ont. They're mighty
trung up too,and the worst is they're united wi'
one another, and we are left out. They've had
a big meeting, and good gracious! how they
did talk, in the absence of wife Patience!—
I feel brave. They will have it that ther
great grandmother, Eve, ruled the roost, an'
they're not gwine tu give up ther nat'ral
rights.
	The critters ses that fur a long time they've
been a nappin' tu give ther pardners time tu
shew themselves, but now ther wide awake, and
is a gwine to put us in our proper place. O ye
men of Amerike, where du you think that is?
Why, tu hum, tendin' babies and doin' the
smawl chores of the house. Why? Because
ther time 's tu precious.
	Yo should see our Patience! she's just had
a coat made with tew tails all buttoned down
afore—I mean the coat and not the tails—an'
a hat with a rooster's feather in it.
	Patience ses ther gwine to chuse a woman
fur the next President, and turn th' Congress
men into Congress wimmen, all but Senator
Vest and tew or three more. They're a gwine
tu give them the priveledge of discussing the
question of the hour. That Mormon problem
is so knotty, and its gettin' knottier all the
time. They're tired of the etarnal fuss about
it, fur they've kept that tempest in a teapot fur
forty years, and nothin' cum of it yet.
	They ses it's hereditary in the wimmin folks

[Column 2]
tu untie knots. Ther grandmother Eve untied
the fust, and they've kept in the same string
ever since, Ther a gwine tu enact a new law,
with no amendment tu it, and hav it stuck up
in all the churches, chapels, and in both houses
of Congress, that, if ennybody cotches some
body els a mindin' another body's business,
ther tu be tuk up an' tried afore them five
commishoners for Polygamy.
	You know, my constituents, feller citizens,
that we've done all we could tu keep up our
dignity, and yet pleas the wimmin folks, but
we can't do it.
	We can't write a letter to our old sweet-
hearts for fear they should find it, ther so curis.
We're obliged tu be hum by nine o'clock nights,
tu tend baby, while they go tu wimmen's meet-
ins to concoct measures to disturb our peace
and take away our liberty.
	They spend five-fourths of ther time shop-
ping, while we can't take time tu buy a cigar,
or we're reminded of our extravagance. Ther
so absent-minded, thinkin' up the affairs of the
nation, that insted of the bosoms of our shirts
bein' starched, it is sometimes another part,
and, as a gineral thing, about ten-ninths of the
buttons are off. They ses, "My dear, when I
married you." Now that rather looks tu me
like the cart afore the horse.
	We never can pleas 'em, we either walk tu
straight or tu crooked. They won't allow us
even one frill on our shirts, while they can frill
and bow all down the back and up afore.
	They must have a little sling nights to
brighten up ther idees, but won't give us none,
because it makes us stupid.
	They won't allow no one tu giv an interpre-
tation of the question of the hour but them-
selves, 'cause they say they understan mathe-
matics. They've limited us tu one cigar a day
an' no pipe, for fear of unstringing our narves.
When we du ennything they think wrong, they
sum us up in quick time without judge or jnry.
	Now, what I'm a gwine to say, shall we stan'
it? (Say, look aut thar and see if Patince is a
comin'. No!) Now Richard's himself again.
Shades of our fathers of '76, shall we stan' it?
I ses no, no; tu battle! tu battle! ye braves!
Don't give in a pint. O lor! here comes Pa-
tience. I must git.


PATIENCE PEABODY'S ANSWER.

	I'd been sufferin' with nuralgi nigh on tu
haf an hour, when ses I tu myself, ses I, Pa-
tience, you'd better be lookin'after Sam, or
he'll be inter mischief. So down I cum, and
hid behind the door, and heerd all his yarn.
	I listened with the patience of a Jobess and
the wisdom of a Shebe. I thought and thought
till I was tired o' thoughting, and now that
Sam's gone, I'll be obleeged to make this mat-
ter straight. I couldn't help laffin' to see how
scairt he was for fear I'd cum. Well, he seems
tu know pretty well our feelin' ginerally, but
he's rather mistaken on a few pints. The fact
is, the men folks seem to know mighty little
about our rights, nor ther own either, for the
matter of that.
	Our Mother Eve was a lady, and Father
Adam knowed his place, and follered her; and
I stick tu it, that it's nothin' but right fur his
great-grandsons to walk in the same lane, and
foller tu. The critter thought we was nappin'
Catch a woman asleep when she's taking items
No, sur, we were wide awake and have been so
disgusted with the critters that we're a gwine
to take our proper place, and let 'em help it if
they can. Sam ses we're a a gwine to chuse a
lady for our next President, and quite right,
tu. For the last forty years it has been one
long crow about them plaguey Mormons. Now,
what I want tu know is this- if they like tu do


as Solomon did, and hav a thousand wives,
whose business is it as long as they don't come
David on it, and run away with somebody
elses. I tell you what it is, I'll bet you a pun-
kin pie thar's more Davids in Congress than
Solomon's; and as fur them knots they're try-
in' tu untie, ther kind o' Indian rubber like—
abaut the time they think ther untied, they
roll right up agin, and the untiers become con-
flumxed.
	Sam was quite right about the new law we're
a gwine to enact, only he furgot one pint, that
is, not only them that's cotcht minding some-
bod'ys business, but them that believes its right
to think about ennybody's business, or look at
that businesses wife, shall be tuk up and tried
fur polygamy; an' if that don't make some of
them Congressmen squeal, then my name aint
Patience.
	As fur Senator Vest, an' a few others, we
have sum respect fur them, because they've
enuff sens left tu tell what belongs to the Con-
stitution and that's considerable mor'n I can
say fur the rest. 
	As furthat big bug that Edmunds has hatcht
out, it looks mighty big, as if it was a gwine
to swaller all them little polly-bugs up; but
these polly-bugs are curis critturs, and a good
deal like Mr. Paddy's flee—you cotch 'em, an'
lift your finger tu look 'em right square in the
face, and goodness gracious! they aint thar. 
	We're gwine to chuse five committees, of
three wimmen in each, to wait on the five com-,
missioners every morning before breakfast,
each woman to deliver a speech an hour long
on her own constitutional rights. I'll venture
a saucer of apple butter that, in three days,
these just men will deliver Edmunds and his
bug tu the keeping of Hamlet's gost. Wim-
men are growin' higher and bigger in this
world, but they don't intend to go so high that
they'll cum down cursquash like Parson New-
man.
	Sam made a leetle mistake about frills; we
are perfectly willin' fur 'em tu wear frills on
ther pantaloons, but we don't want 'em to have
a frill a quarter of a yard wide on the bosom
of ther shirts, or dickeys; it looks tu much
like a rooster's comb, and of all things we des-
pise is roosters—they are so etarnally a crow-
in'.
	We don't care one cent about looking in ther
letters, but we are so scairt they'll get into
trouble—the men are so unkimmen soft. 
	The reason we fix on nine o'clock fur 'em tu
cum in nights, is becaus they allers stay out all
night, and cum hum with the crows in the
morning. About haf a year agone thar was tu
be a big meeting, so we said we'd give till
'leven that night. But did they come? No,
sir; not till the roosters was callin' up the little
chickens. We ran to the door with open arms,
but oh, my fellur citizens! what a fall was
there? We brung 'em in, roosted ther little
feet, and put 'em in ther little bed, when we
drew ourselves up as tall as our manhood, and
was determined we'd stand it no longer.
	As fur them shirts bein' starcht wrong, you
remember what the scriptur ses about lookin'
inter a dark glass, and so forth; that's just
what it means—the critturs look through that
dark glass what's got that cool beverage in, and
gits ther shirts wrong side up.
	Well, gintlemen, I guess I've sed as much as
you can digest tu-day, so I'll go hum, put my
feet in hot water, and take a dose of asoefetida
and penerial, to compose my narves.
						AUNT JERUSHA.


104	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN AND MEDICAL SOCIETIES.

	EDITOR JOURNAL:—For several years, while
women have been so persistently knocking at
the door of the "Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety," I have been wondering, now that the

[Column 2]
number of women physicians is so large, and
constantly increasing, why they do not organize
a society themselves. Since women are capable
of fitting themselves to be either doctors, law-
yers, or ministers, they are capable of organizing
and carrying on a medical society of their own,
that shall be an honor to their profession, and
acknowledged as such by like societies through
out the country. We certainly feel that there
is intellect and talent combined with medical
knowledge and experience sufficient to carry on
such a society.
	I believe that the refusal of the "Massachu-
setts Medical Society" to open its doors to
women physicians, comes from a conscientious
conviction that it is not for the best interest of
physicians of both sexes, and though I may not
agree with that conviction, still I have no right
to say that it is from narrow-minded prejudice.
The majority of the members of that society are
broad-minded men of sterling integrity, who
believe in the good work women physicians
are doing, and would not put a stumbling block
in the way of their success. I am not willing
to admit that women are not capable of having
as good a society as the "Massachusetts Medi-
cal," and did I belong to the corps of women
physicians in our city, I should lend my influ-
ence to organizing a society, be it ever so small
in the beginning. Said society should hold
regular meetings as often as deemed advisable
by the very best talent of the physicians of both
sexes in the state and country.
	I say—both sexes, for I think we should not
separate them, or feel that simply because we
are women, all knowledge must be gained
through women. Let us accept, as helpers in
the good work, all experience and suggestions,
from whatever source they may come. In
time, such a society would become a help, and
a power in the community.
	This course seems to me much wiser than to
keep on seeking admission into the other so-
ciety; and no one would give a "Women's State
Medical Society" a more hearty Godspeed than
the "Massachusetts Medical Society." I
frequently read our Boston Medical and Surg-
ical Journal, as well as several others published
elsewhere, and am surprised seldom or never
to find an article from a woman physican. So
far as I know, there is no law forbidding wom-
en to write for the various medical journals,
There is no surer way of helping on the cause
of woman than by women expressing, through
the press, their opinions upon all matters of
general interest to the public, whether it be
upon medical or other subjects. Men will
gladly acknowledge their worth, and even those
who have no special interest in our cause, will
in time acknowledge that we are equal to dis-
cussing with them important questions pertain-
ing to state and country. Surely women are
interested in political affairs, (we should be,) in
civil service reform, and the many questions
daily brought before the country, upon the
right intrepretation of which the future well-
being of our country depends. Yet we seldom
see in our daily papers anything bearing upon
these public questions by a woman.
	There is no surer way of women obtaining
the ballot upon all questions, than by proving
their competency to vote intelligently, and in
no way can a woman prove it so well, as by
expressing publicly the views she holds upon
all matters pertaining to legislation.
	Let the women of Massachusetts put their
shoulders to the wheel in earnest, and they
will wield a powerful influence, not only for
the good of womankind, but for the uplifting
of humanity.						E. E. B.
	Woman's Journal, Boston.


[Column 1]
	Archimedes invented the slang phrase,
"Give us a rest," when he offered top move the
world with his lever.

[Column 2]
KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 21 and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Children's Hoods
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
10th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS, ROMANIA B. PRATT. M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence , Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Dlseases
ot Women, and Diseases, of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yams,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc, Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

 DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Adress, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations,

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1882.	No. 14.


OUR OWN WE MUST AID.

	Can you call creatures human—
	Who corner a woman
To quiz out her heart, at her husband's expense?
	Compassion and honor,
	Should pour down upon her,
Whose silent fidelity form'd her offense.

	Almost a mother!
	And could not another
Prison be found, than the convict's vile den?
	To banish or send her,
	This harmless offender!
Blush for such doings, all true-hearted men.

	Why turn to past pages,
	Of dark, dismal ages.
When the secrets of conscience, by torture were read!
	When judges and juries,
	Relentless as furies,
Wreak'd their sanctified wrath on the heretic's head.

	Progressive (?) condition,
	The grand (?) inquisition
Looms up, from the past, in this age we call tree.
	Oh! brave (?) generation,
	When incarceration
The fate of unorthodox people must be.

	What right has Jehovah,
	To topple things over.
Or ask folks to walk in His primitive ways?
	To slight the opinion
	Of those in dominion,
Or to set up His throne in republican days?

*		*		*		*		*

	Alas! how depraving,
	This "system enslaving"—
"What a pity," such women in Utah abound—
	Whose self-abnegation,
	So troubles the nation;
To help us they'd grind all our friends to the ground.

	'Tis certain we're humble,
	And ought not to grumble
At those who are lifting us out of the shade;
	While 'tis hard to resist them,
	We can't well assist them;
For, when hunted and hated, our own we must aid.

	The price of a ransom
	Was offered for Samson,
But it took false Delilah to give him away.
	We'll not emulate her,
	'Tis not in our nature;
"These strange" Mormon wives never stoop to betray.

	Success to our sister
	On the heroines list, her
Name is recorded, and long may it shine;
	May blessings attend her,
	And Angels defend her.
And her courage and firmness descend to her line.

	It shall flourish in story
	A permanent glory,
And th' fact shall be sensed and approved by the just—
	That the daughters of Zion,
	Will suffer and die, on
Their faith, ere they'll barter their friends or their trust;

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 30th, 1832.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS.

	O, the merry, joyous Christmas times! the
laughter, the music of the bells, the songs we
sing, the stories we tell! How sweet to have
one day so free from pain and care, so full of
joy and gladness. 'Tis a time when we would
forget all the past, save such bright scenes as

[Column 2]
may make this day still brighter by smiling
upon us like the pleasant sunbeams.
	How eagerly, longingly we look forward to
the happy day, and how happily on Christmas
eve we mingle together to herald in the dear
and holy day with bright and joyous thoughts.
Some cling around the lighted Christmas tree,
where hang the gifts we have so long antici-
pated, and there they dance and sing for very
glee. Others seek the dance, or some like
amusement, until the silver bells chime out the
hour of midnight, then a whispered "Merry
Christmas," or "Christmas Gift," flits from ear
to ear, joined with gay laughter, joyous music,
and the patter, clatter of the flying feet, all in
time and all in tune, making a most happy
chorus.
	There are various ways of spending Christ-
mas time, but all are gay, all are happy, and
our own way, which ever it may be, is always
best, for at such a time one would scorn the
thought of discontent, envy, or any unpleasant
thoughts, and each one vies with all others in
making his Christmas the merriest.
	How immeasurably sweet on Christmas eve
to gather round the glowing hearth, and listen
to the stories told of the Christmas times of
long ago. And as we listen, it seems as though
the days must have been colder, the snow
whiter, the frost on the window panes glistened
in prettier, brighter forms, the children laughed
louder, the choirs sang sweeter, the maidens
danced prettier, the fires glowed brighter and
the heart beat lighter then than now. Yes,
grandpa, to you these things seem so, but for us
are now the Christmas days of your long ago.
After the stories are told, after the songs are
sung, off to the downy beds the little ones go,
where kind sleep touches the pillow and winds
its mantle round the little souls. Sweet sleep
is there with its hallowed angel—dreams.
	Far out in the clear blue sky the silver moon
stands forth in all her loveliness, and the bright
stars sparkle and glow and see themselves re-
flected in the crystals of the pure white snow.
The scene gleams like some enchanted fairy-
land, and as we gaze into the depths of its
mystic beauty, we ourselves become a part of
the ideal scene. From afar off appears a mag-
nificent chariot, drawn by handsome, glossy
reindeers with graceful horns and flowing
manes gliding as it were in a subdued and
tranquil sea. As it approaches nearer, down
in the recess of this magic chariot sits the ideal
king. His long white beard sweeps the floor;
his face is so full of joy and light celestial that
we fancy he is immortal. Round him are
other beings bright and happy, but not so great
—they are his pages, and they bear in their
arms, burdens cf peace and love. Swiftly they
dash over the mountains, the meadows and
plains, over the treetops and housetops they
come, and now right above us the chariot stops,
and the old and venerable king, with one of
his little messengers, looks down upon our
sleeping faces and whispers "All is well;" then
quickly the messenger lays down his burden,
and empties its contents into the row of stock-
ings, from grandma's homespun, down to little
baby's dainty one. Back to the chariot they
fly, and out again into the frosty air they ride,
to another home where little ones wait as anx-
iously as we for the good Christmas king; then
to another and another, till every little soul is
satisfied.
	The mother carefully, softly glides from

[Column 3]
couch to couch, and fondly kisses each little
dreamer, then sweetly murmurs, "all is well."
Then from the safely locked closet she brings
forth the pretty and precious things each little
heart has wished for, and gently, happily fills
each little stocking by the chimney place,
smilingly thinking of the happy faces, the
beaming smiles, the rippling laughter that will
greet her on the morrow.
	Oh, that Christmas times came oftener! but
stay, would we love them then so much? Do
we not value the diamond more for its rareness
than its brightness? If common, like dust, it
would not seem so bright; and so with Christ-
mas, and so with everything. If every day
were a merry-making, feasting time, we would
tire of it and long for quiet and loneliness, and
never half appreciate our pleasure.
	But the wisdom of a higher Being has sprin-
kled and mingled the diamonds and dust, the
light and darkness, the joy and gladness, in
such a way that all must acknowledge the
happy light of every day and the sorrowed
gloom of every night.
	But if all the year round should, through
misfortune or sorrow, be dark and sad as night,
let Christmas day be the awakening of a beau-
tiful morn, when the clouds turn their silver
lining into your darkened sky and shame the
shadows away, and reflect their delicate beauty
on your hearts, till the hearts reflect back the
light, and brighten the countenance with such
smiles as would rival the sunbeams.
									ANNIE.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following is from a letter written me by
my father in fulfilment of promise:
			"WASHINGTON, June 9, 1844.
	"MY DEAR DAUGHTER—I told you of the
blessings that we have received from our
Father which is in Heaven, so be obedient to
the counsel you have given to you from your
dear father and mother, who seek your welfare
both for time and eternity. There is no one
that feels as we do for you. Prove yourself
approved of God and man, as a true, undeviat-
ing friend through evil report as well as good,
through poverty as well as riches. This has
been the spirit I have endeavored to maintain
since I have been a member in the Church of
Christ. I want my children to be true and
faithful in all things, and never swerve from
the truth in any case. If you should be
tempted, or have feelings in your heart, tell
them to no one but your father and mother;
if you do, you will be betrayed and exposed to
your hurt. Remember, my dear child, what I
tell you, for you will find that I tell you the
truth in Christ and lie not. You are blessed,
but you know it not. You have done that which
will be for your everlasting good for this world
and that which is to come. I will admit there
is not much pleasure in this world. Our cir-
cumstances are such that I see no way for it at
present. Congress will not do anything for us,
no nothing; neither do I care whether they do
or not; but we will tease them all the day long.
They think they have got a great deal of power,
and all of this World is theirs to give or retain.
The devil thought he had all at his command
when he wanted to hire Jesus to worship him,


[Column 1]
He had violated all rights or claims—so has
Congress. We will go where we can find a
home, and worship God in His own way, and
enjoy our rights as free citizens; and this will
not be long. Now, my daughter, I have spok-
en plainly to you, more so than I ever did be-
fore. Be wise, and you shall prosper in all
things, and you shall lack for nothing that is
good. Be true to the covenants that you have
made, keep the compant ef those who are
wise and keep close mouths. Solomon says,
"A wise head keeps a close mouths."	*	*	*
Do not slight your friends, be kind, be merci-
ful, be gentle, be sober, and show yourself ap-
proved of God and of your friends. Be kind
to your dear mother, take burthens off from
her shoulders; be mild and pleasant to all.
This is the way to get the good will even of a
dog, for every spirit will beget its own likeness.
	"Now, Helen, let me tell you one thing that
I want you to do; take one of my large blank
books and commence your life back as far as
you can, and when I write my general history
I can put yours in with it. I want William to
do the same. Do not forget this—then you
can put all the letters that I write you in their
proper places, to be handed down to our chil-
dren for them to read.	*	*	*
	"It will be three weeks to-morrow since I
left my sweet home. O sweet home! it is a
heaven to me.
	"The Capitol stands on an eminence, like
our Temple. This building is a great deal
larger than our Temple will be. The stone of
which it is built is a little whiter color than
that of the Temple. It is surrounded with a
large park, decorated with trees of all kinds
and flowers, with several pools of pure water,
with fish in them. It looks like a paradise in
point of decoration. O that we had such a
place! we will when we build up a sure place.
I want to see onr Prophet here in the chair of
state—then we would come to see him.
	Elder Hyde came here on Saturday, and we
held a meeting yesterday. Elder Wight and
myself preached, and it left a good impression
on their minds. I think we shall leave here
to-morrow for Delaware, and hold a Conference.
If you can get the means, come with your
mother, but do nothing to hinder her coming;
you shall have your chance in turn. Be wise,
and when you get this do not fail to write me
and direct to the city of New York. Be a
good girl; May the Lord bless you and your
dear mother and brethren. As ever your af-
fectionate father,
					HEBER C. KIMBALL.
	A letter commenced by my mother June 9,
(the same day that father wrote the above,)
describes the scenes that were transpiring in
Nauvoo. She says:
	"Nauvoo was never so lonesome since we
lived here as it is now. I went to meeting last
Sunday for the first time since Conference. I
should have turned and come home on foot if
I had not been afraid it would make me sick.
Neither Joseph, Hyrum, nor any of the Twelve
were there, and you may be assured that I was
glad when meeting was over. Brother Joseph
Nobles is very kind to me; knowing that I am
not able to walk, he has invited me to ride with
his folks several times. Yesterday he took his
wife and me down to Hibbard's after cherries.
He took us to see Sarah (my father's wife),
who has been quite sick. I urged her to come
home with me, but she said she would rather
wait till she felt better; I expect her this week.
	"The weather continues cold and wet.
Bishop Whitney called in to-day; said he'd
been talking with Dr. Bernhisel—he thought
the quorum had better meet and pray for the
rain to be stayed, or we would all be sick.
	"June 11th. Nauvoo was a scene of ex-
citement last night. Some hundreds of the
brethren turned out and burned the printing
press of the opposite party. This was done by

[Column 2]
order of the City Council. They had only
published one paper (Nauvoo Expositor) which
is considered a public nuisance. They have
sworn vengeance, and no doubt they will
have it.
							"June 24th.
	"My Dear Husband.—Since I commenced
this letter varied and exciting indeed have
been the scenes in this city. I would have
sent this to you before this time, but I have
been thrown into such confusion I know not
what to write. Nor is this all; the mails do
not come regularly, having been stopped by
high water or the flood of mobocracy which
pervades the country. I have received no let-
ter by mail from you since you left. I know
your anxiety to hear from us must be very
great, as you will no doubt hear of our trouble
by report. Nothing is to be heard of but
mobs collecting on every side. The Laws and
Fosters and most of the dissenting party, with
their families, left here a day or two since. They
are sworn to have Joseph and the City Coun-
cil, or to exterminate us all. Between three
and four thousand brethren have been under
arms here the past week, expecting every day
the mob would come upon us. The brethren
from the country are coming in to aid in the
defense of our city. Brother Joseph sent a
message to the Governor, signifying if he and
his staff would come into the city he would
abide their decision; but instead of the Gover-
nor coming here, he went to Carthage, and
there walked arm in arm with Law and Foster,
until we have reason to fear he has caught
their spirit. He sent thirty men here day be-
fore yesterday to arrest Brother Joseph, with
an abusive letter, saying, if thirty men cannot
do the business thousands can, ordering the
brethren who had been ordered out to defend
the city against the mob to deliver up their
arms to their men and then disperse. Yester-
day morning (although it was Sunday) was a
time of great excitement. Joseph had fled
and left word for the brethren to hang on to
their arms and defend themselves as best they
could. Some were dreadfully tried in their
faith to think Joseph should leave them in the
hour of danger. Hundreds have left the city,
most of the merchants on the hill have left.
I have not felt frightened, neither has my
heart sunk within me till yesterday, when I
heard Joseph had sent word back for his family
to follow him, and Brother Whitney's family
were packing up, not knowing but they would
have to go, as he is one of the City Council.
For a while I felt sad enough, but did not let
anybody know it, neither did I shed any tears.
I felt a confidence in the Lord that He would
preserve us from the ravages of our enemies.
We expected them here to-day by the thou-
sands, but before night yesterday things put on
a different aspect—Joseph returned and gave
himself up for trial. He sent a messenger to
Carthage to tell the Governor he would meet
him and his staff at the big mound at eight
o'clock this morning, with all that the writ de-
manded. They have just passed here to meet
the Governor for that purpose. My heart said,
Lord, bless those dear men and preserve them
from those that thirst for their blood. What
will be their fate the Lord only knows, but I
trust He'll spare them. The Governor wrote
that if they did not give themselves up, our city
was suspended upon so many kegs of powder,
and it needed only one spark to touch them off.
If you were here you would be sure to be in
their midst, which would increase my anxiety.
	"Now, I must tell you the fluctuation of my
mind about going to meet you. Brother
Adams told me a week ago that he, having
been detained so long here, had concluded to
take his wife with him; said if Helen and I
would go with them he would agree to take us
to you; he had no money, but he was ac-
quainted with the captains of the different

[Column 3]
boats, and could go to Cincinnatti without
money—there he could get what he wanted.
He calculated then to be here last Friday and
stay till to-morrow, when we were to start on
the Ospry. I saw no prospect of going unless
I took up with his ofier. I asked counsel of
Bishop Whitney and others; they all advised
me to go, so I went to making ready with all
possible speed. But it was only three days be-
fore I heard they were going to write for all
the Twelve to come immediately home: I saw
Joseph passing by, and went out and asked
him if it was so. He said, yes; there was a
prospect of trouble, and said you were wanted
here, and you would want to be here. He also
said you had promised to return immediately
and fetch him some money. I felt so disap-
pointed that I could not help shedding a few
tears over it. Brother Willard Richards soon
came along and told me to cheer up, that he
did not apprehend any danger; said, "hold on
a few days, we shall not write quite yet at any
rate." So I took courage again, only to meet
another disappointment. He called Friday
and told me he had just dispatched a messen-
ger with letters to all the Twelve to come im-
mediately and fetch all the force with them
that they could raise. This messenger was to
take the first boat and go to St. Louis before
he mailed them, as it is of no use to mail them
here. I knew nothing to the contrary till
Saturday evening, when Brother Adams told
me that all was counteracted and they had con-
cluded not to send for you, and said—"Perhaps
we shall go yet." That is the last that I've seen
of him. He preached here yesterday and
started for home last evening. I understand
he has been appointed for another mission. So
I see no prospect of going East at present.	*	*
I can only say, may the Lord God bless and
preserve us all to meet again. I believe He
will. The children all send love and good
wishes to their dear father. Justin Johnson
will take this over the river and mail it for me,
so I will bid you farewell.
						VILATE KIMBALL."
To be Continued.


106	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Miss Emma Worthington of El Paso, Cala.
has been appointed a notary public.

	Mrs. Emily J. Fifield has been nominated by
the Boston Democrats for School Committee.

	A National Society for the advocacy of
Woman Suffrage has been established in Paris.

	All the doors that lead inward to the secret
place of the Most High are doors outward—
out of self, out of smallness, out of wrong.—
George MacDonald.

	Old age is the night of life, as night is the
old age of the day. Still, night is full of
magnificence; and for many it is more brilliant
than the day.—Mme. Swetchine.

	Kind words produce their own image in 
men's souls, and a beautiful image it is. They
soothe and comfort the hearer. They shame
him out of his unkind feelings. We have not
yet begun to use them in such abundance as
they ought to be used.—Pascal.

	THE BEAUTIFUL.—Whatever is beautiful is
refining. Whether in nature or in art, the
presence of the beautiful softens and purifies.
But let no young lady fall into the blunder
of supposing that only that which is expensive
can ever be beautiful. It is labor, care, skill,
an artistic eye, and a refined taste that beauti-
fy. Whether in home or in dress, in speech or
in manners, money is not the main thing which
provides the beautiful. The dowdy apparel of
many a slattern has cost more money by far
than the neat and beautiful garb of her indi-
gent but orderly neighbor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 107


THE APPROACH OF WINTER.

	The flower has closed,
	As God proposed;
The wind blows o'er the heather,
	Its little seeds
	Beneath the weeds
To shield them from the weather.

	The birds of spring
	Have taken wing,
And flown with heaven's guidance;
	Each coming dove,
	Emblem of love,
Has left with sweet reliance.

	But as these go,
	The pure, white snow,
In wond'rous crystals falling,
	Covers the ground
	For miles around,
A sheet about us drawing.

	The rich man's slave,
	And peasant's grave,
Lie 'neath its modest mantle:
	Its loving care
	We all will share,
And learn from its example.

	Blossoms of spring
	In autumn bring
Food for us through cold weather;
	Each season throws
	Sweet as it goes,
Each one and all together.

	Think not, nor grieve,
	When th' roses leave;
Winter will bring you sadness;
	'Tis nature's sleep,
	To rest and keep
Her charms for future gladness.

	Each season's joy
	We can employ
To make our pathway brighter;
	Nearing the end,
	Their blessings blend
To make life's burdens lighter.
				STEPHE S. BONBRIGHT


[Column 1]
THE BELLEVUE TRAINING SCHOOL
FOR NURSES.

	Under the title of "A New Profession for
Women," the Century for November has an
excellent article on the "Bellevue training
School for Nurses." As the paper is too
lengthy for our space, and loses much force
without the illustrations, we compile a few
facts of interest to our readers:
	Bellevue Hospital of New York needed a
reform in its system of nursing. This truth,
brought to the attention of the "Local Visit-
ing Committee of New York State Charities'
Aid Association, a committee composed of six-
ty members, chiefly ladies of high social posi-
tion and intelligence," resulted in the convic-
tion "that no improvement could be hoped for
in the management of the hospital until a com-
plete reform of the nursing should be effected,
and, inspired by the example and success of
similar work in England by Florence Night-
ingale, the founder of the modern system of
nursing, they set themselves to this task with
resolution, tact and intelligence." The obsta-
cles were many, but the "managers were only
thereby the more firmly convinced of the ne-
cessity of patient and persistent effort." "The
first step was to learn how to organize the
school in the best way, and for this end Dr. W.
Gill Wylie, of New York, volunteered to go to
Europe, at his own expense, to study the for-
eign systems. Upon his return, he brought a
cordial letter from Miss Nightingale, in which
she set forth the principles upon which the
management of the school has been based."
	"Voluntary subscriptions were called for and
made to the amount of $23,000, and a house
was rented near the hospital, in which the

[Column 2]
nurses should lodge and board." "At first, but
six pupils were obtained." The applicants
were required to have: "Good education, strong
constitution, freedom from physical defects,
including those of sight and hearing, and un-
exceptionable references. The course of train-
ing consists in dressing wounds, applying fo-
mentations, bathing and care of helpless pa-
tients, making beds, and managing positions.
Then follow the preparation and application of
bandages, making rollers and linings of splints.
The nurse must also learn how to prepare,
cook and serve delicacies for the invalid. In-
struction is given in the best practical meth-
ods of supplying fresh air, and of warming
and ventilating the sick-room. In order to re-
main through the two years' course and obtain
a diploma, still more is required, viz.: Exem-
plary deportment, patience, industry and obe-
dience."
	"The Nurses' Home," the headquarters of
the school, a large and handsome building,was
erected for the purpose and given to the school
by Mrs. W. H. Osborne." "Besides studying
from text books and attending a systematic
course of lectures, the pupils are occupied in
the care of the patients in the hospital."
	"The nurses at the Bellevue school may be
divided into two classes: those who study the
art of nursing with a view to gaining a liveli-
hood or supporting their families, and those
who look forward to a life of usefulness among
the poor sick. All are lodged and boarded
free of charge during the two years' course."
"During the nine years of its existence, 149
pupils have received diplomas, 78 of whom
are now practicing in New York City."
	Graduates have been called to be superin-
tendents of many institutions, and the demand
for trained nurses in private families is now
greater than the supply.
	There is no computing the good done by
these noble women who devised this scheme,
nor the good now being accomplished by the
scores of trained nurses and teachers this
school has sent out. They are the allies of the
physician, and none the less important. As
prepared for earning their living, they com-
mand good wages. As devoting their lives to
the care of the poor, no missionary to foreign
lands finds his labor more needed, or blessed of
the Master.—Gleaner, in Woman at Work.


DUTIES OF SAINTS.

	Those who enter into the waters of baptism
in this day, take upon themselves covenants
and obligations, enter upon duties whose mag-
nitude is appalling when viewed by mortal
eyes alone, and from an earthly standpoint. In
taking upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ
we verily and truly enter His service, enlist in
His cause, and our obligations are binding
even unto the death. But in this conflict we
depend not on the sword; famine, pestilence
and destruction are not the results of the war-
fare of the followers of Christ. The armor to
be borne in His cause is Truth, with the host of
emissaries of which are Faith, Charity, In-
tegrity, Patience, Humility, etc., weapons that
can only be obtained by pure lives and honest
hearts, and to keep them and be able to use
them rightly, requires constant diligence and
watchfulness, with mighty prayer for strength
and wisdom. Jesus came to redeem the world
from the Fall, to atone for the sins of
mankind, and open the way for their return
back to the Father, and to establish on earth
the principles of the Gospel; yet, according to
His own words, "the foxes have holes, the birds
of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath
not where to lay His head;" so that His king-
dom had not then come.
	After His crucifixion, His followers carried
on the work He had begun, establishing


churches in various lands. and striving to per-
fect the Saints in the principles of Truth, in
the face of fearful persecution and opposition,
and their labors were great and their efforts
noble to preserve on earth the Gospel of their
Master. But its doctrines and ordinances were
changed and perverted by men, until the true
plan of salvation was lost on earth, and confu-
sion, doubt and uncertainty have reigned for
many hundred years.
	Now again the Father and the Son have
spoken, the word has gone forth for the fulfill-
ment of all prophecy that has been uttered
concerning this world. Not only is the true
Church to be established, but God's Kingdom
is to be built up and sustained, for it is no
more to be thrown down, nor taken from the
earth.
	The Gospel has to be preached to every na-
tion, kindred, tongue and people, and His
children to be gathered from whithersoever
they have been scattered. Think of it,Saints!
and ask yourselves if you have any time to
waste in folly and things that amount to
nought.
	The veterans who commenced this great
work of the latter days have labored nobly
and faithfully, but they are passing away from
earth, one by one, to rest for a season, and the
vacancies must be filled—the work must not
slacken nor cease, until it is completed, and
the Kingdom ready for its King, the Saints
gathered, perfected and prepared to meet Him.
										H.


HOW TO SPOIL YOUR CHILDREN.—Make
them'as much afraid of you as possible on all
occasions.
	Fly into a violent passion with them several
times a day.
	Whip them soundly if they break some
trifle by accident.
	If they smash it purposely, do not pretend
you see it.	
	Don't be foolish enough to enter into their
childish sports.
	When they ask for information, tell them to
shut up their mouths.
	Never take the least notice of their little
childish sorrows.
	Give them to understand that it is pretty to
say pert things.
	Always take their part against teachers,
governesses, etc.
	Try to forget as much as possible that you
were ever young yourself.
	When they amuse theemselves torturing ani-
mals, look on and laugh.
	Always tell them to hit back when annoyed
by neighboring children.
	Tell them all the lies you like, and half kill
them if they tell you one.
	When they tell you they won't do a thing,
laugh at it and let it go.
	When they fall and hurt themselves, scold
them for their awkwardness.
	Give them expensive trifles to play with, and
raise Cain if they break one.
	Dress them in such style that they will be
afraid to play for fear of spoiling their clothes.
	Make religion such a long-faced, poky thing
that they'll hate the name of it as long as they
live.
	Tell them it is a sin to be dishonest, but if
they bring you back too much change from the
grocer's, keep it, and tell them to say nothing
about it.
	Threaten to tell their father and get them,
punched for every blessed thing they do, so
that by degrees they will come to the conclu-
sion that a father is some sort of a whipping
machine.
	If you feel a little hand trying to nestle in
yours, or a little arm trying to twine itself
around your neck, give a growl and snarl but
something about wanting to be let alone.


108	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	DECEMBER 15, 1882.


CHRISTMAS IS COMING.

	ONE of the most satisfactory days in all the
year is Christmas, when everybody tries to bless
everybody else, and especially the poor or un-
fortunate, and to bring smiles and happiness in-
to every heart and home. A fitting tribute to
the memory of the blessed Redeemer is to do
some of the works He spent his life in doing;
blessing mankind, ministering to the suffering,
alleviating sorrow; promoting peace and follow-
ing his perfect example. Carrying out for one
day in the year at least the precept "Do unto others
as ye would they should do to you." And in
this way are treasures laid up in heaven; which
is another precept of the same great Teacher.
Many little children think of Christmas only as
a gala day, on which they are to have every-
thing that is good to eat (and lots of things that
are not good for them) and everything done for
their pleasure; and very often forget to do any
one good thing for any other person. Little
children should be taught that on that day par-
ticularly it is proper,and indeed a duty to minister
in some way to those who are not so highly
favored as themselves. To make some little
sacrifice for another's good. To divide something
with another child, or aged person. A very pro-
per thing to teach children to do is that of help-
ing to bring sunshine into the life of those who
have lived on into "the sere and yellow leaf,"
and need the warmth of young lives to quicken
their pulses temporarily. If more attention
was given to this matter it would be a source of
great happiness to the aged. Many of them
have not grandchildren of their own crowding
around their homes to wait upon and caress
them, and they need tenderness and loving care
for are they not feeble and weak, and many
years and much trial has made them weary.
	Encourage the children to show them favor as
well as respect, and see that some tangible kind-
ness is bestowed by the young and beautiful.
One of the most elevating traits of human char-
acter is the reverence for age; above all chil-
dren in the world the children of Zion should be
instructed in this pleasant duty. The associa-
tion of little children is specially delightful to
people far advanced in years, not to weary them
with noise and confusion, but a little gaiety and
mirthfulness is like an elixir to their drooping
spirits. Christmas is the very time to perform
noble deeds, and mingled with festivity and
song and the bounties of earth, will be the hap-
py feeling that comes from blessing others.
Keeping Christmas is a grand custom, and one
which should be continued, but it ought not to be
a strain upon the family for weeks before hand
to contrive how to economize sufficiently to
make expensive presents. This in the present
day seems to be carried to the extreme. Moder-
ation in all things is wiser than excess, and hap-
piness is not heightened so much by extrava-
gant luxuries and presents, as in that which pro-


motes peace and contentment. Solomon says,
"A contented mind is a continual feast." Peace
and good will were the tidings brought when
Christ was born, and these to all mankind. On
Christmas day reach out the olive branch, bury
all old grievances and feuds and begin anew,
ready to make a better record for another year.
	A merry Christmas and a happy one to alI
our friends, in every iand and clime, at home
and abroad, the Exponent bear the message
over land and sea, and into many sunny homes.


UTAH'S DELEGATE.

[From the Congressional Record, Dec. 5.]

	"The petition of the undersigned respectfully
shows: that he is the delegate elected for the
Territory of Utah for the Forty-eighth Con-
gress.

	"That at the last session of the present Con-
gress the seat of Delegate for said Territory to
the Forty-seventh Congress was declared vacant,
and the people of said Territory are now unrep-
resented.

	Prior to the election held on the first Monday
in November, 1882, the Governor of said Terri-
tory was requested to call an election, to elect a
Delegate for said Territory for the unexpired
term of the Forty-seventh Congress, but refused
on the ground that he had no power in that re-
spect.

	A like request was made to the commissioners
of elections for said Territory appointed by the
President of the United States, under what is
known as the Edmunds bill, and they refused
on the same ground.

	At the election held November 7,1882, to elect
a Delegate to the Forty-eighth Congress, your
petitioner received 15,490 votes for the office of
Delegate for the unexpired term of the Forty-
seventh Congress, and to fill the vacancy exist-
ing in said office.

	The commissioners of elections for said Terri-
tory, as will appear from a copy of their instruc-
tions annexed, refused to canvass or allow said
notes to be officially canvassed or an official re-
turn thereof made, on the ground that their
power did not extend to that subject.

	The number of votes so cast and the fact that
the voting for Delegate to fill that vacancy was
quite general throughout the Territory, will ap-
pear from the affidavits of precinct judges of
elections, and a summary thereof hereto an-
nexed.

	Inasmuch as the people of said Territory are
entitled to representation in your honorable
body, and under the construction of the law by
the governor and commissioners there seems to
be no way provided for calling such an election,
your petitioner submits that the voluntary and
general expression of the will of the people
through the ballot-box is the best and only ob-
tainable manner of filling said vacancy, and re-
quests that he may be declared entitled to a seat
as Delegate for said Territory for the unexpired
term of the Forty-seventh Congress."

	Washington. 13.—Members of ihe House elec-
tions committee, who have examined the me-
morial presented to Congress against the seating
of Caine, the delegate elected from Utah to suc-
ceed Cannon, say that it involves a nice legal
question, and one which will excite almost end-
less discussion when the matter comes before the
House. The election was held without any pre-
vious proclamation by the Governor of the Ter-
ritory, and the question involved is as to the
right of the people of the Territory to hold an
election under such circumstances.


DESERT HOSPITAL.

	This institution, which was established July
15, 1882, is now supplying a long-felt need of the
people, and is all that it claims to be, a home for
the sick and injured. It is centrally and pleas-
antly located, with plenty of fresh air and a
good water supply. The set of surgical and
gynceological instruments is a complete one, the
best that could be obtained, while a pharmaceu-
tical department connected with the hospital
furnishes the necessary drug supply.
	The head nurse is a woman of skill and ex-
perience, having served five years in two of the
largest hospitals in Stockholm. We also have
an efficient night nurse, who has served in one
of the same hospitals two years and a half.
These nurses speak the English as well as their
native language.

	The visiting surgeons' hours are between 11
o'clock a. m. and 1 o'clock p. m. Those wishing
to consult with Dr. W. F. Anderson should visit
th Hospital during the above hours.
	The average monthly attendance of patients
since the organization of the hospital has been
from twelve to twenty. Since November 1st
the medical rates have been reduced. In spe-
cially complicated cases additionol charges are
made. Specially low rates can be made with
Bishops for indigent parties residing in their
Wards, by consulting with Dr. Mattie Paul
Hughes, the house surgeon.
	The wards are substantially and comfortably
furnished with iron bedsteads and other suitable
conveniences, and the hospital will now accom
modate from thirty to thirty-five patients.
					E. R. S. SMITH, President.
					E. B. WELLS, Secretary.
				In behalf of the executive board.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A SPECIAL Conference palled by the Presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall Tuesday and Wednesday,
Dec. 12 and 13, meetings commencing at 10
o'clock a. m. and 2 and 7 p. m. each day. Much
excellent instruction has been given, especially
to the Priesthood and to Bishops and those who
preside in the several Wards, prest. John Tay-
lor, Prest. Joseph F. Smith, Prest A. M. Can-
non, Counselor D. H. Wells and other leading
men have addressed the people. Most of the
Bishops made verbal reports of their respective
Wards.

	TO-DAY the Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion, will be held in the Council House
in this city.

	THE ladies' "Unity Club" are busy preparing
for their entertainment which will be held soon,
although the date of the event has been changed
to January. It will consist of tableaux, music
and recitations, by members of the Club. Miss
Ada Dwyer, the talented elocutionist, will ap-
pear in the "role" Miss Priscilla Jennings, Miss
Agnes Olsen and Miss Louie Wells will sing;
Mrs. Cummings (Della Clawson), a great favor-
ite of the Salt Lake Theatre lovers, will take
part in the programme, and others, well known
as talented young ladies. As the entertainment
is known to be for a charitable purpose, we trust
it will receive the patronage which will make
it a financial success as we feel sure, from the ex-
ecutive ability of the committee of arrange-
ments, it certainly will be in point of merit.

	THE city presents quite a festive appearance
in anticipation of Christmas, and each shop
seems to vie with the neigboring ones in en-
ticing Santa Claus to purchase from their stock,
Christmas trees are coming in daily and already


some are being decorated for the little people.
Shop windows are making a fine display of staple
products for the joy and comfort of man, as well
as toys and all manner of gift articles for the
little people. The milliners’ shops have the
prettiest feathers and ribbons, the most elegant
bonnets and hats for ladies and children.

	SAVAGE'S Art Gallery has a large show win-
dow devoted entirely to dolls of all sizes and
kinds and prices, and there are also many other
handsome articles that are useful as well as or-
namental, too numerous to mention. Pictures
of every conceivable variety suitable for the
cottage or the palatial mansion. Toilet goods of
choice kinds and good quality, stationery in
abundance, and an excellent assortment of
books, writing desks, work boxes, plaques and
materials for painting of all kinds.

	THE book store of Mr. James Dwyer presents
a very fine appearance. It is almost impossible
to mention any article in his line of goods that
the store is not supplied with, of the best quali-
ty too. His illustrated books of poems, bound
in the newest style and of expensive material,
are elegant, and fit to adorn any drawing room
and interest and entertain the most fastidious
people. Single books and sets of books and his-
tories of all countries, the best books by the best
authors, can all be purchased at Dwyer’s. Work
boxes and writing desks, reticules and satchels,
money purses, and diaries, and in fact every-
thing of this kind that can be purchased in the
large cities. He keeps the largest assortment of
toys in the city. School books and stationery
add to his immense stock of holiday goods.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


IMPROMPTU.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	You asked me to write something for the Ex-
ponent, but I laconically said "I pass"—yet my
mind seems full, "pressed down, and running
over" with a heterogeneous mass—something re-
sembling that which we behold in the kalaide-
scope, needing a hand to turn it to that focus
that produces form and order, and hence beauty;
but an inertia, or will power, is wanting, or
something, I hardly know what name to give it,
to produce a palpable and beautiful figure, and
so I declined to write. But sitting alone with
my own thoughts this evening, and thinking
upon the refusal I had given you (not unkindly,
but simply, honestly), my mind ran out upon
the conviction of what a mysterious, marvelous
construction the human mind is! I can say
with Sterne, in his abrupt but beautiful way, "I
know that I have a soul! nor can any writer,
however metaphysical or ingenious he may be,
convince me to the contrary." Most true! there
is the voice of my spirit, with whom I hold an
eternal communion—yes, we two beings hold
marvelous spiritual intercourse! the spirit takes
the Rostrum, the earthly the Auditorium.
Hours pass, days and years have passed, but the
interviewing never "breaks up," except in sleep,
and even in the land of dreams it sometimes goes
on. It speaks in whisperings, not heard by the
natural ear, and in a language not of letters, and
of syllables, but as an intuition, a something
heard and comprehended without articulation or
palpable demonstration; in this way my mind is
at the present time full, but it needs to be SIM-
MERED down into a tangible form,and this process
takes away much that is beautiful.
	We poets know well that our most glorious
visions will not live again, even upon the most
gifted lyre, but some have the faculty to make
tangible much more than others; but it will re-
quire the harp of the Seraph to improvise the
heart songs and aspirations of the Saints of God!
This spirit of mine, whose Father is God, whis-


pers much to me that my understanding does
not grasp; it sheds a revivifying, elevating in-
fluence around and about me, but I cannot re-
duce it to a language, even for my own ear. But
at moments a valve seems opened, and through
it a lightning flash is emitted, an idea escapes,
and eagerly and lovingly I endeavor to enrobe it
in language, even for my own ear. But
at moments a valve seems opened, and through
it a lightning flash is emitted, an idea escapes,
and eagerly and lovingly I endeavor to enrobe it
in language suitable, but oh! how unworthy of
it! Well I know this capability must be for the
grand future, the great beyond; but all this gives
an assurance of the infinite nature which at
present, for the want of a more appropriate
name, we call human. As I write, my mind
seems to open upon the infinitude of the mighti-
ness of this immortal mind, which has been
often laid open to the world, and millions have
bent before the grand display, and been elevated
and invigorated by the same; and the whole
earth itself has been enlightened as with the
electric light of heaven, for it was all an emana-
tion from the eternal fountain, and an echo of
that breathing voice that said, "Let there be
light!" And these glorious minds, in their
transit over this earth, have left a train of light,
like the flashing meteor, leaving the eye as it
were dazzled with their lustre.
	Who dares to say mind and spirit die and are
extinct? Rather say their immortality began
on earth and gave ample assurance that it is
"eternal in the heavens."
	Good night, dear. May choirs of angels sing
you to your rest.
				Your friend,
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 11.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	I feel it my painful duty to announce through
the Exponent the departure of my dear and only
sister, Elizabeth P. Bentley, from this vale of
tears to a holier sphere. Her pure and gentle
spirit left its earthly tabernacle on the morning
of December 6, at 5 o’clock. The funeral took
place yesterday at 12 m. The stores and busi-
ness houses were closed and the Temple hands
were released at that hour so that all could at-
tend,she having been one of their number. Her
remains were borne to the Tabernacle by her
three sons, two sons-in-law and a grandson.
	Our family were sorely stricken with grief,
but the brethren, those men of God, Prest.
McAllister, Bishops, Bro. J. G. Bleak, and
others, poured in the balm of consolation. Af-
ter singing hymn on 144th page, "Weep not,"
Bro. Bleak offerred a very touching prayer.
Bishop Cannon then arose and stated, after ask-
ing the aid of the Spirit, that he had known
Sister Bentley as long as he could remember,
and that when her husband was sent on a mis
sion in the fall of 1860, and was absent four
years, leaving her in adverse circumstances with
a family of little children, she labored faithfully
in keeping school for their support, and never
faltered, although in delicate health. She was
a woman of integrity and worthy of emulation.
	Counselor Eyring made a few remarks. Said
he was unable to give satisfaction to his feelings,
but felt to endorse what had been said by Bro.
Cannon. Made some further remarks and spoke
of the good qualities of our departed sister, and
exhorted the Saints to diligence.
	Bro. Gates then arose, and said: We had come
together as a band of Brothers and Sisters to
bid farewell to Sister Bentley, and pay our last
respects to the dead. Spoke of the principles of
the Gospel. Said our departed Sister would be
long remembered by her many friends in this
place.
	Bro. McArthur had known Sister Bentley for
the last twenty years, and was acquainted with
her good works, and that she would come forth
in the morning of the first resurrection.

[Column 2]
	Prest. McAllister made the closing remarks.
In speaking of the departed one, said he wished
to speak of her virtues. He knew her before
she came here. She was honored at the first
calling of ordinance workers to officiate in the
St. George Temple by Prest. B. Young, who
called her with others to labor for the living and
the dead. She had ever been ready to come and
to go in the faithful discharge of her duties in
the Relief Societies in this Stake of Zion and
otherwise. Her example had been most ex-
emplary. She had been faithful and had re-
ceived the promise, benefit and blessing of every
ordinance which God has revealed for the salva-
tion and exaltation of the righteous. Said he
had talked to her and knew her feelings in rela-
tion to Celestial marriage by her own testimony
to him; he knew she accepted it in her feelings.
Then quoted an address given to the Church by
Joseph Smith, the Prophet, dated Nauvoo, Sept.
6, 1842, of glorious provisions made in the Gos-
pel of Christ for the salvation and exaltation of
the dead. Exhorted the Saints to emulate the
virtues of the deceased. Prayed that the Lord
might comfort the hearts of the bereaved hus-
band and kindred.
	Singing, "God of all consolation take"—
	Benediction by Bro H. W. Platt.
	We then proceeded to the graveyard, where
the mortal remains were deposited by the side of
seven of her grandchildren who had gone be-
fore. A dedicatory prayer was offered at the in-
terment, by Bro, J. G. Bleak. By request of
Bro. Bentley, Bishop Cannon returned thanks
to the brethren and sisters for their kindness to
himself and family.		M. A. P. HYDE.


FOREIGN LETTER.
				___
	CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand,
					November 1, 1882.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	At a Conference of the Australasian mission
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints held at Christchurch, on October 22d, a
Relief Society report was presented and a unan-
imous wish expressed that a copy thereof be for-
warded for publication in the EXPONENT.
	Permit me to add, I have met with several
numbers of the EXPONENT in this far off land,
and always note with pleasure the good results
in those who read its truthful pages.
	Wishing you continued success in your efforts
In the defence of religious liberty for all people
of either sex, I remain, respectfully, your co-
laborer in the good cause.
				WILLIAM M. BROMLEY,
		President of the Australasian Mission..


OBITUARIES.

	Died at Salt Lake City, in the Deseret Hospital,
November 2d, 1882, of dropsy and heart disease, Maria
Wilkinson Horton, wife of John Horton, of Rockport,
Summit Co. Aged 52 years and 3 months, was buried
at Rockport, Summit Co., her home. She was the
mother of eleven children, seven of whom are left with
her husband and many relatives and friends to mourn
her loss. She was born in South Lincolnshire, England;
was baptized February 18th, 1856, by Lorenza D. Rudd,
at Hull, Yorkshire, England; came to Utah in 1861 in
Captain Joseph Rawlins company; settled in Summit
Co., where she joined the Rockport Relief Society at its
organization, in March, 1873, filling the office of teacher,
which she honorably held the rest of her life. She was
much beloved by all who knew her, and died in hope of
a glorious resurrection. Her good deeds will live though
she has passed from our sight. Well may it be said of
her, "Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord."
	Weep not for me, my children dear,
		For grief it is in vain;
	Christ is our hope, we need not fear,
		We all shall meet again.
			ANN BRYANT, Prest.
			SARAH STAKER, Sec.


[Column 1]
	Margaret Morris Mathews, wife of Hopkin Mathews
of Providence, was born on the 26th of August, 1821, in
the town of Pontycats, Caermarthanshire, South Wales.
April 3d, 1844, she became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the first female in the
valley of Aberdare, Glanmorganshire, which principles
sustained her in life, and made her hopeful in death. She
emigrated in the year 1856 with her husband and five
little children; crossed the sea in the "Escurling;" over
the plains in Edward Buuker's handcart company; made
her home in Ogden City, in the spring of 1859, she
moved to Providence, in Cache Valley, with her husband
and family, being one of the first settlers in this place.
Whether we regard Sister Mathews as a wife, a mother,
a friend or a Latter-day Saint, we shall find her promi-
nent among her sex. As a wife, she was the helpmate
and couselor of her husband in sickness, poverty and
distress. Her advice was never disregarded, for it ema-
nated from a mind wise and thoughtful to a high degree.
As a mother, she was kind and solicitous to a fault; few
women have been so blessed in their children; she was
the mother of thirteen children, four sons and nine
daughters, and grandmother to thirty-one children, all
of whom gathered about her bed in her last sickness;
only three out of her family of children have gone be-
fore her. As a friend, she will be forever remembered by
those who have experienced her sympathy and kindness;
she had words of hope for the downcast, elevation for
the afflicted, and a benevolent heart that was always
seeking out objects of charity; her memory will live
long in Providence; she was, indeed, its mother. As a
Latter-day Saint, Sister Mathews was a shining exam-
ple of meekness, simplicity and virtue. In all of her
hours of trial, sickness and poverty, and she had many
such during the early years of her life, she was sustained
by an unfaltering trust that illuminated her spirit, even
in death ever ready to do good day and night, and al-
ways willing to be useful. It could be said of her as
was said of one of old, she touched nothing that she did
not adorn. The 4th of November, she was at Logan, in
Conference, when she was struck with paralysis in her
right side; she was taken home by Brother Mathews; her
family gathered around, also many of the sisters and
brethren to administer to her wants. She was quick and
sensitive to the very last. Twenty minutes to 11 o'clock
p.m., Nov. 14th, she breathed her last. She was Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Providence, which position
she held for nearly thirteen years, and which duty she
performed faithful and true. The corpse was carried to
the meetinghouse by her sons, grandsons and sons-in-
law; next, the relatives, and then the teachers of the
Relief Society, two and two. The speakers on this occa-
sion were Frederic Theurer, Wm. Smith, John F. Maddi-
son, Chas. B. Robbin and W. W. Low. They gave some
very instructive counsel on the occasion, and urged the
people to follow the example of the departed. From
the services to the cemetery followed thirty-one vehicles,
and she was iaid to rest from the toils and care of this
life, and indeed she rests for the first time in twenty-two
years of my acquaintance with her. "Peace to her
ashes."						EMILY MADDISON.

	DIED in Harrisville, Weber Co., Utah, October 5, 1882,
at 1.10 a. m., of small-pox, Lucy Ann, wife of Richard
D. Brown, Jr., aged 32 years and 10 months, leaving a
husband, four children, and a host of relatives and
friends to mourn her loss. The youngest child being
less than two years old. Sister Lucy was the daughter
of the present President of the Relief Society of Slater-
ville, Mother Field, and was born in the Church, at
Bloomington, Iowa, Nov. 30th, 1849, her father dying
three weeks prior to her birth, leaving the care of raising
a large family upon the mother; who brought them to
the Valley, and settled in Slaterville, Weber Co., thirty
years ago. Deceased was baptized a member of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight
years old, and in her maiden days taught school in
Slaterville. She was married to R. D. Brown, in the En-
dowment House, Salt Lake City, December 5th, 1870,
residing in Harrisville since that time. She was a social
friend, an affectionate daughter, a worthy mother and
loving wife. None knew her but to respect her, and her
departure is widely felt. She was a member and senior
teacher in the Ladies' Bible Class in our Sunday School,
and has been a member and acting Secretary of the
Relief Society since the first organization in the ward.
She passed off in peace in an apparent slumber, without
a struggle; she was buried on their own place the same
morning, the only mourners to follow her to her last
resting-place were her husband, her children, and a
number of her relatives standing a distance off, thus

[Column 2]
showing their regards to the respected dead. Elder Wm.
England, of Plain City, taking charge of the interment.
She was buried in full temple clothing. Brother England
remarked that she was being rather roughly laid away,
but she would arise in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion full of honor, as effulgent as the sun at noonday.
			MRS. MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF, Prest.
			MISS ANNIE E. SHURTLIFF, Sec.
[Utah papers please copy.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R S., Y. L. M. I. AAND PRIMARY
	REPORTS.
MESA CITY.
	A brief report of the quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society, which was held at Mesa,
Sept. 30, commencing at 10 a.m.
	Present on the stand: The officers of the
Mesa and Jonesville Relief Societies; also
President MacDonald and some others of the
brethren; President Phelps presiding.
	Meeting opened in the usual manner with
singing and prayer. After which the minutes
of the previous June Conference were read and
accepted.
	President Phelps requested Bro. MacDonald
to address the meeting. He excused himself
for the present, wishing to hear from the sis-
ters first, after which he would respond. The
following sisters arose and made encouring re-
marks and bore faithful testimonies: Susan-
nah Brady, Lizzie MacDonald, Biggs, Hibbard,
Jones, Savage, Harper, Longmore, Steele,
Elizabeth MacDonald, Fanny MacDonald,
and Hannah Peterson.
	President Phelps felt indignant when she
read in the papers of the course our enemies
were taking to bring trouble upon our people
in Utah, but said our trust is in God. All we
have to fear is ourselves; let us be faithful to
our duties and all will be right.
	Bro. David Savage then made some very en-
couraging and instructive remarks.
	President MacDonald gave some very good
instructions. The principles we have embraced
are dear to our hearts, and it is the duty of
mothers to instil these principles into the
minds of their children, that they may escape
the evil influences that are striving to over-
throw the work of God on the earth. Pray for
each other, be charitable and kind, overlook-
ing each other’s failings, and let us live above
the evil influence that surrounds us.
	Singing and benediction. Conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon meeting. Usual opening-exer-
cises.
	Bro. David  Savage occupied a portion of
the afternoon in a very interesting manner; re-
ferred to some of the prophecies of Isaiah;
thought that a great many of them were about
to be fulfilled. Said the first steps towards
apostacy consisted in finding fault with the
Priesthood. Said, sisters, if you see your hus-
bands giving way to this spirit, it is your duty
to rebuke them; avoid a fault-finding and
slanderous spirit, for it leads to great evil;
teach your children faith in God. Referred to
the great faith of the army of Helaman, who
were taught the principle of faith by their
mothers, that not one of them were slain in the
great battle with the Lamanites. Closed by
praying that the spirit and power of Elijah’s
God might rest upon the sisters.
	President MacDonald occupied the remain-
der of the afternoon in a very instructive dis-
course, on the many and varions duties per-
taining to our society. Spoke of the import-
ance of making covenants, and when we raise
our hands to sustain a person in any office in
the Church, said there is a power goes with it
more than we have any idea of. Visit the sis-
ters who are not with you, and encourage
them to come to meeting. Let the young sis-
ters join with you until they can be organized
in a society of their own. Spoke of the beau-
ties of union and co-operation, when carried
out to the fullest extent. Said some of the
prophecies were about to be fulfilled concern-
ing the test that was to come to this people,
when we have got to show our true colors and
show who and what we are, whether for God
or not. Exhorted us to seek the spirit of rev-
elation and use wisdom in all our acts. Said
some were poor in clothing, but rich in faith,
while others were rich in clothing but poor in
faith. Felt to invoke the blessing of God upon
all those who were striving to perform the du-
ties of their calling.
	It was moved and seconded that Sister Eliz-
abeth G. MacDonald be appointed to preside
over the Relief Societies in this district; car-
ried unanimously. The officers of the several
societies were also unanimously sustained by
the Conference.
	After some business was transacted, the
Conference adjourned sine die.
	Singing. Benediction.
		Sabah M. Pomeboy,
			Secretary pro tem,
[line break]
ORANGEVILLE, EMEBY COUNTY.
Dear Sister.—I am pleased to inform you
that we have a Relief Society here in the
Orangeville Ward, organized August 27th,
1882. Caroline Curtis, president; Sarah Ann
Fullmer and Ellen Robertson, counselors; Jo-
anna P. Curtis, secretary; Elizabeth Reid,
treasurer, and all the necessary officers be-
longing to the society. We are feeling well in
the good work, and hope to improve. We
pray for the welfare of Zion and all our sisters
in this glorious cause.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
				JOANNA P. CURTIS,
						Secretary.
				____
			NEW ZEALAND.
	Report of the Canterbury, New Zealand,
Relief Society of the Church-of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	The Relief Society was organized at Christ-
church, on the 26th of December, 1879, by
Elders Shreeve and P. J. Nordstrand; Sister
James set apart president and Sisters Larsen
and Doak first and second counselors. In
consequence of the President gathering home
to Zion, the society was reorganized, and now
consists of officers as follows: Johanna Larsen,
President; Olina Nordstrand first and Emma
Rogers second counselors; Louisa Porter, sec-
retary; Louise Rogers, treasurer. Total num-
ber of members, 13. The sisters here live in
a very scattered condition, and consequently
the attendance is not as regular as could be
desired, though tolerably good considering the
many disadvantages they have to contend
with. The meetings are held on the last Mon-
day of each month. Up to Sept. 5, 1881, the
meetings were held on the first Monday of the
month, but the change was made to suit the
convenience of one of the sisters who lives 18
miles from the place of holding meeting, who
could not otherwise attend.
	The sisters are united and attend to their
duties; they meet and encourage each other,
and advise for the best; each breathe a kind,
charitable feeling and manifest a desire to as-
sist in rolling on the work of God.
	There is a society fund, to which the mem-
bers contribute as their circumstances will al-
low; this enables us to assist those who are in
need of pecuniary aid.
	We desire to emulate our sisters at home in
their labors of love, and ask them to remember
us in their meetings and give us their faith and
prayers.
	The contributions to the society to date
amount to [english pound]2 5s., of this amount [english pound]1 13s. has
been appropriated to aid missionaries and the


needy in our midst, leaving a balance on hand
of 12s.
	We desire to express our appreciation of the
instructions given by the brethren who have
visited our meetings. Their timely counsels
and explanation of our duties has made plain
the road which leads to eternal bliss, and ena-
bled us at times by the eye of faith to obtain
a glimpse of woman's lot in the great plan of
salvation.
	THE EXPONENT has also assisted us greatly
in our studies, its welcome pages being always
replete with good instruction and wise sugges-
tions. We do cheerfully recommend it to all
and invite a careful perusal of its pages.
		LOUISA PORTER, Secretary.
		JOHANNA LARSEN, President.
	Christchurch, Oct. 22, 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ARE WIVES SUPPORTED?

	Among the amusing paragraphs lately cir-
culated in the variety column of newspapers is
one which contains a deeper lesson than they
can ordinarily boast of. "A husband adver-
tised in the Sheffield Daily Telegraph, England,
that he, Thomas A—, would no longer be
answerable for the debts incurred by his wife.
The wife retorted: 'This is to certify that I,
Elizabeth A—, am able to pay my own
debts, now that I have got shut of Tommy.'"
	This retort is a very pointed comment upon
the theory that has prevailed up to the present
day, namely, that the husband was the bread-
winner and stay of the household, and that the
subordinate members, including the wife and
children were supported by him; unprofitable
members of the community, consumers in-
stead of producers. To what degree is this
true, and to how great an extent are the wives
of all the great working classes, who form the
bone and sinew of English life, supported by
their husbands?
	The passing of the Married Women's Pro-
perty Act, which has so gloriously disting-
uished the Parliamentary session of this year,
has been the means of securing property to
the amount of many millions into the hands of
women, hitherto unjustly deprived of its con-
trol. The previous Act of 1870, now included
in the larger Act, had proclaimed the right of
a married woman to the wages which she had
earned by her own labor. No one doubts, the
justice of these two measures, or if a few speci-
mens of that nearly extinct species, the believ-
ers in the divine right of husbands, still exist,
they are dying away, and the next generation
will know them no more. But between the
women who possess inherited property, and the
women who, from the improvidence or incapa-
city of their husbands, are obliged to leave
their homes to earn wages for the support of
the family, there is the still larger class who
find occupation for their fullest energies in the
home itself, in cooking, scouring, making and
mending their husbands' and children's clothes,
and bearing, nursing, and sometimes teaching
the children. The question arises: Are these
women supported? Are they only consumers,
or a most important section of the producers
of the country's wealth? Do they do anything
to earn their own living, and, if so, how can it
be secured to them?
	A young man and woman agree to marry,
and they bring into the joint partnership, not
real or personal property, inherited or acquired,
but their heads and hands only. The man's
head and hands are occupied out of doors; he
is the visible wage-earner; he works ten or
twelve hours and brings home enough, if he
does not spend it at the public-house, to buy
necessaries for the family. Perhaps by extra
industry on his part, or extra good manage-
ment on hers, he saves and puts by money.
She, on her part, has kept a decent and com-

[Column 2]

fortable home for him, has laid out his earn-
ings for their mutual benefit, and has borne
and brought up their family of children, and,
as any one who has been in like circumstances
will acknowledge, has worked not only through
the day of twelve hours, but half the night
also. She has labored in her own vocation as
hard as he has; she has economised, contrived,
schemed, saved, giving the whole of her time
and brains to the common stock, and he has
done no more. And yet the ordinary theory is
that this woman is supported all her life, and
the law, even this law, which is incomparably
juster and more generous than any that has
hitherto been known in England, and which
we have no thought of undervaluing, gives her
no joint right to the income of the family; she
has only the right, which her husband recipro-
cally enjoys, of receiving a pauper's mainten-
ance from him.
	In many cases the unpaid partner of the do-
mestic firm does more than the household
work, though this seems a fair day's measure
for any individual's brain or hands. If they
keep a little shop, she looks after it; if a farm,
she makes the butter, fattens the fowls, or feeds
the calves. To quote again from the wisdom
of the newspaper corners: "A Western man
having lost his wife, a sympathizing friend re-
marked upon his woe-begone appearance.
'Well, I guess you would look thin, too," was
the melancholy rejoinder, 'if you had to get up
before daylight, make the fires, draw water,
split wood, and feed the cattle before breakfast.
I tell you what it is, if I don't get sombody
to fill poor, dear, sainted Maria's place, I
shall be resting by her side before many
weeks.'"
	It is notorious that in the agricultural
States of the Union, where labor is dear, the
farmers' wives take an extensive share in the 
farming operations, besides the house work.
We heard a few weeks ago of one of these
"supported" wives in Kentucky, who, after get-
ting breakfast for her husband and four chil-
dren, picked 135 pounds of cotton before
noon, came home and prepared the family din-
ner, returned to the field and picked 115
more pounds of cotton, and reached the house
again in time to cook supper. This instance
might be repeated a thousand times in Indi-
ana, Iowa, Kansas, etc. Hard as the farmer's
life is, that of the farmer's wife is confessedly
much harder. Besides her own work, she often
takes part in every agricultural operation car-
ried on at the farm. She is frequently killed
by the drudgery, and the statistics of the in-
sane asylums show that a majority of the fe-
male patients come from this overworked class,
and yet these women are "supported" and can-
not claim one shilling as their own out of the
family earnings.
	This seems to us incompatible with common
sense and common justice. During recent
years a good deal of attention has been directed
towards the injurious practice of women con-
tinuing their work in factories or workshops
after they are married. It is contended, and
with much truth, that the husband's wages are
calculated on a scale sufficient to support the
family, and that the physical and moral inter-
ests of the household will suffer if she gives her
time and strength to work which takes her
from home. There is much to be said from
this view, but there is this great difference to
the woman. She goes not only from one kind
of work to another, but from paid work to un-
paid work; from being a self-supporting laborer
she becomes "supported."
	If we could suppose, for the sake of argu-
ment, that all the married women in England
neglected or refused to fulfil their home du-
ties, as wives, mothers and mistresses of the
household, so that hired help must be engaged,
the wealthy man would be forced to supply the
place of his wife by a housekeeper and a gov-

[Column 3]

erness, the poor man to engage the insufficient
help of a charwoman to be cook, nurse, scrub-
ber, mender of clothes, etc., all in one. In
each case, wages must be paid, and the aggre-
gate sum of these wages would probably ex-
ceed not only all the earnings now gained by
married women away from their homes, but
even the earnings of the unmarried. The la-
bor of the household can only be performed
free of cost when it is performed by the wife.
Every one remembers Wilkie Collins' resume
of the question in the "Moonstone." The stew-
ard, whose cottage has been kept clean by a
working woman, marries her, and says:
	"I had another reason likewise of my own
discovering. Selina, being a single woman,
made me pay so much a week for her board
and services. Selina, being my wife, couldn't
charge for her board, and was bound to give
me her services for nothing. That was the
point of view I looked at it from. Economy—
with a dash of love. I put it to my mistress as
in duty bound, just as I had put it to myself.
'I have been turning Selina Goby over in my
mind!' I said, 'and I think, my lady, it will be
cheaper to marry her than to keep her!'"
	No one will deny that while Selina was
earning wages as housekeeper, she was a pro-
ductive member of the community; it is only
when she assumes the additional duties and re-
sponsibilities of a wife, that she becomes sup-
ported, and ceases to have a claim to remuner-
ation. Is there no method by which this in-
justice may be removed? Selina's case is of
frequent occurrence. The lady who has been
governess or school teacher, or post office clerk,
the working woman who has been a shop-hand
or domestic servant, the numerous class of
mill girls and female operatives, give up, when
they marry, a certain means of livelihood,
which, even if it has done no more than pro-
vide them with bare necessaries, was lawfully
their own, and they should have a legal claim
to some equivalent.
	As we have endeavored to point out, the
value of the work they do would be recognized
at once had it to be paid for. Some well-in-
tentioned but over-zealous reformers have sug-
gested that wives and mothers should receive
regular wages from the husbands for the work
they do. This, to our thinking, is manifestly
absurd and impossible. The work of caring
for her family, whether recognized as work or
not, is the duty which she has undertaken to
do when she married. She is morally bound
to perform it, as much as the husband is mor-
ally bound to provide her with the means of
doing it. The sacred duties of wife and mother
are such as can be measured by no debtor or
creditor account. She and her husband have
entered into a partnership, in which each con-
tributes his or her best for the good of the
firm; there can be no question of hire.
	We think, however, the law might recog-
nize the equality of the partnership more than
it does. The right of a widow to inherit after
her husband ought to be more carefully guard-
ed. If he die intestate, and there are uo chil-
dren, she should have the same right to be his
sole heir as he has to be hers. Her claim to
remain as a widow in her married home ought
to be established by law, not resting as it now
does upon family agreements, or the forbear-
ance of the eldest son. It should be impossi-
ble for a man to will the whole of his property
away from his wife. In some cases, as in the
transfer of real property, her signature should
be requisite to the document as well as his, as
is already the law in some countries; and
among the large wage-earning class, the em-
ployer should be bound to pay over to the
woman a proportion of the husband's earnings,
if it can be proved that he does not bring
home sufficient for the family support.
	Above all, the false theory that a married
woman is a hanger on, a supported member of


the commonwealth, as little children are, would
be abandoned, and the money she spends on
herself would be considered as lawfully
"earned" by herself as if it had been paid in-
to her hands by an employer who was not of
her own household.
	A few words from a thoughtful article on
"Treasurers," by Colonel Higginson, in the
Womans Journal are to the point here:
	"We are constantly told that the life-work
of a wife is as arduous and absorbing as that
of her husband. We are told that if she does
her whole duty to her family, she can have no
time to study metaphysics, or to put a slip of
paper into a ballot-box. I think it was the
conservative, Dr. Edward H. Clark, who de-
clared that the duties of the mother of a fam-
ily required as much toil of brain and body
as those of the captain of a ship. Grant it
all; grant that she work as hard as her hus-
band does. If so, the inference is irresistible
that she earns her share of the family income.
The fact that he receives the money and pays
the bills makes him the treasurer of the fami-
ly, that is all, aud he has no more right than
any other treasurer to take airs upon himself
and talk nonsense. When he pays ont money
to her, it is not as a gift, but as earnings.	*
*	*	'This was a present to me from my
wife,' said a rich man, showing an ornament.
'Bought with your money?' said a friend jo-
cosely. 'No,' he said, 'out of her own hard
earnings. She keeps house for this man of
your acquaintance.'"—Englishwoman's Review.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


﻿MEN AND WOMEN.
	“In every time and every nation the hearth
of home is in the care of the women. And if
ever a nation shall deserve to present to the
world a new and higher phase of home life, it
must be that people in which woman is treated
with the highest regard and true chivalry—
where she is permitted to become all that na-
ture intended her to be. We believe in Eu-
rope that this people is to be found in the
United States of America.”—So says Miss
Bremer.
	As far as exemption from the hard work of
“subduing the earth,” (which God has ex-
pressly laid on men) the women of America
are freed from all oppressive toils; and their
homes are made more comfortable and pleasant
than those of any other women. There is not
now, nor has there ever been, a nation where
the men were so careful to provide for their
families, and devoted such thought and skill
for domestic appliances intended to lighten the
tasks of women; and the love and liberality
of fathers and husbands are apparent in the
comforts and luxuries of home life, and in the
personal appearance of their wives and daugh-
ters. All this is well done; but is not some-
thing more needed before that shining phase
of home-life within our Republic should as-
sume, can be fully displayed?
	Greatness is most perfect when it acts with
the least reference to self; power is most effi-
cient when moving the will through the heart.
Let us American ladies cultivate the virtues,
the knowledge, the accomplishments, which will
influence, imbue and aid men to do the work
of the world to the glory of God; then the
woman will truly shine forth .as “the glory of
the man.”
	I would allude to the precepts of Christ as
the foundation rules of conduct and character,
when we seek to refine and dignify human na-
ture. And now, when the year has come full
circle, and we are at its close, this Gospel eti-
quette of love and duty comes before us as the
perfect pattern of that home life and social
improvement which the men and women of
America are, as we all hope, destined “to pre-
sent to the world.”


The real worth and glory of American in-
stitutions can never be understood nor appre-
ciated until we, as a people, teach, by our ex-
ample that Jesus Christ, in making men "free,"
subjected them to His truth.
							MRS. HALE.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	Thinking is the talking of the soul with it-
self.—Plato.

	Character is higher than intellect. A great
soul will be strong to live as well as strong to
think.—Emerson.

	Miss Jennie-Turner has been appointed no-
tary public, in New York, by Governor Cor-
nell. This is the first instance of the appoint-
ment of a woman in that State.

	Miss Lydia Becker was re-elected for the
fifth time to the Manchester (Eng.) School
Board. She was second on a poll counting
27,368 votes.

	Florence Nightingale, who may be called
the originator of trained nursing, says, "There
is no such thing as amateur art, there is no
such thing as amateur nursing."

	Lady Brassey, whose yachting experiences
have been told so charmingly, is to have a
yacht built at Cowes, which will be modelled
after a viking's ship now in the Christiana
Museum.

	Miss Mathilde Blind's "George Eliot" will
give for the first time a faithful account of
George Eliot's early life, and many details of
her unknown literary labor, with much new
and interesting correspondence,

	The summer house of Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps is on a point of the sea-shore a little
east of Gloucester. She lives there with her
companion and her pet dog during the warm
weather, as remote as possible from noise.

	Things which never could have made a man
happy develop a power to make him strong.
Strength and not happiness, or rather only that
happiness which comes by strength, is the end
of human living. And with that test and
standard the best order and beauty reappear.
—Phillips Brooks.

	Miss Rachel G. Foster, the efficient Secre-
tary of the N. W. S. A., has returned to her
home in Philadelphia. Miss Foster has won
hosts of friends during her sojourn in the
West, and is conceded to be a "graceful, lovely
young lady," notwithstanding the great execu-
tive ability displayed in her public work.
Would there were more such young women as
Miss Foster in the world.

	In a little red cottage on the shore of a
lake called the Bowl, near Lenox, Mass.,
Hawthorne wrote "The House of Seven Ga-
bles." Mr. J. T. Fields used to tell of carry-
ing out to him there one hundred dollars in ad-
vance of work, but after accepting, Haw-
thorne's sensitiveness found the obligation
irksome, and he handed it back. "Take it,
Fields," said he, "the house isn't big enough
to hold it."

	The New York Court of Appeals reversed
a decision of the Supreme Court which held
that a woman may have action against her hus-
band for beating her. It had before been the
recognized rule that a married woman might
sue any man for assault and battery except
her husband, but that to give her the right to
appeal to the courts against his brutality would
be "contrary to the policy of the law, and des-
tructive of that conjugal union and tranquility
which it had always been the object of the

[Column 2]
law to guard and protect." The Supreme
court of New York in general term refused to
hold to this inhuman and obsolete principle of
the old common law, but now the New York
Court of Appeals has overruled this humane
decision. We hope Vermont will adopt Sena-
tor Ide's bill, and release women from the old
feudal law of slavery to the husband.—Ex.


KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

A LARGE STOCK
Of HOME MADE TRANKS for sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS.

DAVID JAMES
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER LN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1883.	No. 15.


A NEW YEAR'S OFFERING.—1883.

	The way of this world is to praise and bless,
Extol and venerate the memory
Of dear and faithful friends when they are dead.
Too oft while they are with us, we forget, 
Or fail to realize their priceless worth;
We do not sense how much they are to us,
How much our happiness depends on them,
Till they are gone, and then it is “too late!"
Too late e’er to recall one needless pang,
One harsh expression, which we may have giv'n,
Or offer love long due, too long withheld.
	The Gospel light, restored in latter-days,
Corrects—with every other—this mistake;
And those who will accept it, in its strength,
Its beauty and its fulness, "need not err,"
In greater or in lesser things than these.
"The testimony of the Lord is sure,
And maketh wise the simple"—happy truth!
To those who will receive it, it is peace.
But doubts and bitterness will cling to those
Who shut their hearts against its kind approach.
	The year just closed is like a buried friend.
And if its gifts, its precious days and hours,
We've failed to value in their faultless course,
Failed to fill up with useful thoughts and deeds,
Then o’er its grave we may indeed lament,
With sad, unfeigned though unavailing tears.
But if, instead, we've wisely spent the wealth
Of opportunities for doing good,		
That crowded on us in the fleeting time;
Watchful that nothing worth a stroke should pass,
Which we might aid in doing, or might do,
Forming fair shrines for tender memories,
Then truly, we can find no cause to weep
For this kind friend, more than for the vast throng
Of cherished favorites, the sweet and pure,
The good, and wise, and staunch, among our own,
Who have been summoned in the year now past,
To higher spheres of action and of thought.
That they have triumphed, winning fadeless crowns,
We cannot doubt; therefore we will not mourn.
But with the gen'rous feelings, that should live
Within the heart of every Saint of God,
We'll praise and bless Him for His matchless love;
And ceaseless thanks we'll offer for His care, 
And kind protection which salvation wrought,
Anew for us throughout the vanished year,
And—through obedience—is promised still;
And with our thanks this humble prayer we'll raise:
	Our Father, God! Bless Thou Thy chosen one,
Thy servant whom Thou'st called to lead Thy Saints,
Whose head is silvered with the time and thought,
Which he hath spent to glorify Thy name 
In the salvation of his fellowmen.
Bless him with health and with Thy strength, and let
The light of revelation dwell with him,
That he may comprehend Thy mind and will 
Concerning Zion—yea, 'the pure in heart,' 
And with him bless his Counselors; the Twelve,
Their Counselors, and all whom Thou hast called
To bear Thy Holy Priesthood here on earth;
Make harmless every weapon that is hurled
'Gainst those who bear Thy truth into the world;
The young among Thy sons and daughters bless,
Surmount them with the shield of righteousness;
Let faith and union with Thy Saints increase, 
Throughout the Stakes of Zion spread Thy peace;
And through the year just op’ning, may we stand,
Or follow, as Thou wilt, Thy guiding hand.
We ask all things, and say Thy will be done,
In the dear name of Thy beloved Son;
Thine, be the glory, and, let once again,
All Israel say Amen! Amen!! Amen!!!'"
	LULA.


[Column 1]

JANE WELSH CARLYLE.

	The life of this good woman, in the hand of
a George Eliot, would make a soul-thrilling

[Column 2]

and most instructive homily to women of all
grades; many such have been written, and
read with tears, and heartfelt sympathy, and to
every thinking mind with edification. Yet
we often hear such works derided as trashy
fiction, when in truth they are always taken
more or less from living characters. Dickens,
and George Eliot invariably drew from life.
Sir Walter Scott was so pointed in this, that
his characters were read and recognized. I am
bold to say the writings of these authors, with
Bulwer and many others, cannot be read by
any mind of capability to comprehend, with-
out life instruction, especially to those whose
lives have been spent in comparative seclusion.
The young mind craves food as well as the body,
and is so imperative that it will have it. Then
let them read to their hearts content; if they
read such authors as I have named with ap-
preciation, they will have no taste for inferior
writers. The life of Jane Carlyle shows there
is often more romance in real life, than even
found in books. I have been drawn into this
train of thought by reading a very brief sketch
of this lady’s life, which would certainly make
a book, if taken in hand by a competent writer.
	I have already felt a repulsion to Thomas
Carlyle, great as he was, for which I can
scarcely account, as I have only read portions
of his "Latter-day Pamphlets," but in them he
has considerably developed himself:—on read-
ing this brief memoir of his wife, I felt there
must be some instinct in the feeling! now, at
last, is given to the world the sombre life. The
imprisoned soul of his beautiful, and most
exemplary wife, Jane Welsh; for fifty long
years this woman lived like one who had
"taken the veil." Carlyle, like most devotees
of the pen, was poor; and the life-struggle of
his wife was to economize a small income to
enable him to follow his vocation, his mission
on the earth as "a teacher of mankind"—in
this course she never faltered, but steadily,
daily, and yearly laid herself on the altar of
sacrifice that she might accumulate all good to
a being, who was hard, cold, and unapprecia-
tive; even through the long, weary years they
lived at Craigenputtoch (the very name gives
one the chills), the bleak Scotch hills, stretch-
ing in monotonous barrenness on all sides, yet,
through all she plodded on through her hard
and dreary warfare; without sympathy and
without appreciation, filling the most menial
offices; while far from being the companion of
her husband, she only saw him for a few
moments in his dressing room in the morning
acting as his valet, during the long seven
years of their residence there, for he could
only compose in solitude, and his nervousness
compelled him to occupy a room far away from
the domestic doings of the house. Through
her constant labors of love, she enabled him to
fulfill his great mission, freeing him from all
domestic care; but sometimes she would speak
of the travail that accompanied the production
of his great work, "Life of Frederick the
Great," and in her witty way she called it "the
valley of the shadow of Frederick!" So
Carlyle lived, and wrote in comparative ease,
and Jane, his wife, nourished the life-blood,
and fed the lamp with oil day by day, without
praise and without price.
	But I must retrograde somewhat, that I may
give a brief outline of this noble woman, for
without that, her picture would be entirely in-
complete, and her great merit depreciated, but
death has brought to life and light. I will

[Column 3]

not fail in my purpose—even though I may be
somewhat erratic in the recital.
	"Save the history of Charles and Mary
Lamb, there is no more pathetic history in
English literature, than that of Thomas
Carlyle, and his wife, Jane," and yet how
many have gone down to their graves with a
like history, none knowing and none appre-
ciating?
	Jane Welsh was the petted and only
daughter of a Scotch physician, who boasted
of the family, blue blood, and who had ample
means to live a life of ease and elegance; Jane
was a pretty, gay and lively child, and grew
up a very attractive woman; she received a
liberal education, was bright, and witty, and
possessed a beautiful face, and pleasing man-
ners; all this was a fortune in itself; of
course she had many admirers, but she re-
mained perfectly heart-whole till meeting
Edward Irving, she felt he was the only man
she had ever seen to whom she could commit
her life destiny- Irving had been her tutor,
and now solicited to be accepted as her lover,
but he had been affianced to another woman,
and this was a serious obstacle in the way of
accepting him; yet she candidly confessed she
loved him, but told him he must first win the
consent of his affianced to a severance of their
engagement; but a Scotch betrothal is as
sacred as a Jewish one, and means much more
than is ordinarily received by English or
American society. The young lady refused to
absolve her vacillating lover from his cove-
nant with her, even after she heard that he
loved another; and Jane was too proud to ac-
cept a lover with a broken troth, so ended her
first and only love!
	At this time her father died, she was devot-
edly attached to him, and the shock and sor-
row it caused her, seriously affected her health,
not being of a strong constitntion. To the
latest period of her life she rarely spoke of him,
and always in a sacred hushed way, which told
the reverential love with which she cherished 
his memory. This alone, if nothiug more,
shows a marked phase of the woman's chaarc-
ter—womanly love and devotion, was its most
distinctive features, and which her whole life
exemplified. Edward Irving was the only man
she ever loved—she confessed to a dear friend
in the later years of her life, that she married
Carlyle from ambition, and she added, "he has
far surpassed all that I ever hoped of him, yet
I am miserable!" Here was the grand mistake
of her life, they were the antipodes of each
other, both by nature and education. She was
of patrieian birth, fond of society, proud, sensi-
tive and accomplisded; he was of the yeoman-
ry of Scotland, accustomed to the hard life of
its bleak hills; he had no sympathy with fine
lady arts, was not social, was grim even in his
humor, was dictatorial, believing in himself
and scarcely anything else; but she found him
superior to all around him in intellect, and she
felt he would make his mark in the world, so
she married him. Had she remained single,
relying upon her own capabilities, she would
have become a literary character, of which
she was very fond, and her letters, and diary,
and occasional poems, all reveal the fact that
she composed with ease, and her rare conver-
sational powers would have drawn around her
a circle of admiring friends, instead of which,
she formed a loveless union, her own individu-
ality absorbed in that of her husband, a menial
in position, her home cares and daily struggles


to make a small income suffice, that her hus-
band might be free from the cares of poverty,
that he might devote himself to his mission,
which it seems she firmly believed in—all this
was the sad reverse of the life picture. Yet I
believe it is a very common one. Woman is
a proud being, her Creator formed her so most
wisely. I do not believe any high-souled
woman really loves a man she does not admire
evenmore, still I must have much love in
marriage, or it cannot be an immortal union.
Words may be spoken, deeds may be drawn
up, but if love is not there to seal and ratify,
there must be a scroll over all having some-
thing like such words as, “Held in bondage.”
I feel if Jane Welsh read my words she would
say in the words of Scripture, “True, O king!”
Much more might be told, but the time came
for this woman to enter her rest; she passed
away from all earthly trials, and then, strange
to tell, her husband woke from his apathy,
the vision of his mind seemed afraid and at
once might fancy a tableaux opened before
him of her life, sacrifice for him, and it was
given to him to realize all she had done and
endured for his sake, her loveless and unappre-
ciating husband, and then he mourned her
with all the tenderness that in life he had
denied her.
	“Like many another rare and great,
	Thou wer’t not treasured till too late.”
				HANNAH. T. KING.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following is from my father's last letter,
which was written at Willmington, Deleware,
June 12th:
	"I am at the house of Brother Sanders, who
is very kind, also his family, and I feel free
and at home here. We arrived yesterday at
two o'clock—left Washington at six in the
morning; stopped one hour at Baltimore. As
for Congress, they have not got it in their
hearts to do the first thing for us, because it is
not popular. * * * But the Lord
is our King, and He has all things in His
hands; as this is the case, it is for Him to give
us our inheritance, for Congress has violated
all rights and claims to the earth, or anything
that pertains to it. I must say I felt indig-
nant some of the time while in Washington,
to see their indifference towards us. There
are some three or four who seemed to be
friendly—I think merely to get our support; I
will give their names: General Sample, of
Alton, Judge Douglas and Mr. Wentworth, of
Chicago—these three men belong to Illinois,
we sent them. General Atchison and Hughes,
from Missouri seem to be kind. Oh, the de-
ception that we find in this world! Elder
Wight and myself have presented a petition to
get redress for our wrongs in Missouri, or for
them to give us some land somewhere in the
world, either in Texas, Arizona or Iowa. The
bill had gone before the committee of public
lands; it was thought by some of the members
that it would go favorable. Do not think that
they can restore what they have taken from us
—that cannot be done in this world. * * *
	"We shall leave here to-morrow for Phila-
delphia, from thence to Boston, as the Confer-
ence will be on the 29th and 30th of July;
then I shall return to New York. When you
get to Philadelphia I can get word from you
in one or two days and come to you. I spoke
to the Captain of the Osprey to see that you
got on to a good boat. You will be treated
kindly, for ladies are not insulted. If you
come, tell William to be careful of the chil-
dren, and keep them out of the wet, and see
that they have plenty to eat. Tell him and
Mary they must attend to prayers when you

[Column 2]

leave—they shall not lose anything by so do-
ing, but shall have health and peace and the
good things of this world. * * *	I
hope to dispose of my land, then I shall be
able to bring them some clothes. Tell him to
be prudent in all things, use those things that
will be for their comfort. I hope to get a line
from you soon, then I’ll know what your cal-
culations are' I shall write no more at present
—this I thought might reach there before you
started. I shall write to the children now and
then. Tell them to write often and direct to
the city of New York. As ever your affec-
tionate husband and father,
		HEBER C. KIMBALL."
	Preparations had been made, and we were to
start for the East on or about the 1st of July;
our kindred had been notified of our coming.
Sister Cobb, before returning East, had urged
my father to bring me to Boston to spend a
portion of the summer, and my expectations
and desires I thought were now to be gratified.
This was the second time that I had anticipated
a visit to the home of my birth, endeared by
the fondest recollections of my infant years. I
longed to see again those dear old meadows
and green woods, where my cousins and I had
strolled together with our playmates, climbing
up the high fences to be able to reach the
nicest autumn berries; and many instances and
scenes I remembered distinctly. There were
my father’s first potter shop and our dwelling
house, built by his own hands. There his first
four children were born—the first was a girl
and the fourth a boy, who were buried in the
little groveyard near by. And though last not
least was the old red schoolhouse, standing
upon the outskirts of the town, near a large
swamp, where I first learned my a, b, c. My
night and day dreams were filled with the
bright hope of future and unalloyed pleasures
which I imagined were in store for me. No
girl, I think, ever felt more animated, or
looked forward with a greater desire for the
happy day to come that would see us off. The
thought never entered my mind that the Pro-
phet could be murdered, causing a sudden
change in affairs that would call my father
home, and thereby all the airy castles that I
had been building be cruelly dashed to the
ground.
	The following hastily written lines tell of
the awful fate of the Prophet and his brother,
Hyrum, and describe the scene in Nauvoo,
aud the deep sorrow and lamentation that filled
the hearts of the people:
	"NAUVOO, June 30, 1844.
MY DEAR COMPANION:
	"Never before did I take up my pen to ad-
dress you under so trying circumstances as we
are now placed, but as Brother Adams, the
bearer of this, can tell you more than I can
write, I shall not attempt to describe the scene
through which we have passed. I saw the life-
less bodies of our beloved brethren, when they
were brought to their almost distracted fami-
lies. Yea, I witnessed their tears and groans,
which were enough to rend the heart of
adamant. Every brother and sister who wit-
nessed the scene felt deeply to sympathize with
them; yea, every heart is filled with sorrow, and
the very streets of Nauvoo seem to mourn.
Where it will end the Lord only knows. We
are kept awake night after night by the alarm
of mobs. These apostates say, "Their damna-
tion is sealed, their die is cast, their doom is
fixed," and that they are determined to do all
in their power to have revenge. William Law
says he wants nine more that were in his quo-
rum, sometimes I am afraid he will get them;
I have no doubt but you are one. * * *
	"There was a strange circnmstance took
place when the Legion was first called out to
defend the city. There were several drums
found with blood upon them. No one could
account for it; they examined to see how many

[Column 3]

there were; they found ten, and when they
were examining the eleventh, there came a
large drop on that one. William has seen
them, and says with all that the drums have
been used, the blood is still plain to be seen.
	"I try to submit all things into the hands of
God. I have felt opposed to their sending for
you to come home at present, and did not know
as they would, until Brother Adams called
here a few moments ago, and told me he should
start in about two hours; if I wanted to write
I must send it to the Mansion within that time.
I have not time to say much, neither is it nec-
essary, as he can tell you all. My health is
better, and the children are all well. I mailed
a letter to you last Monday, directed to Balti-
more. The letters you sent from Washington
all came together last Wednesday; the mail
had not been in before for four weeks. When
I read your pressing invitation for me to meet
you, I again took courage, that the way would
yet open for us to go, but alas! all our hopes
in that direction are blasted. My constant
prayer now is for the Lord to preserve us all
to meet again. I have no doubt but your life
will be sought, but may the Lord give you
wisdom to escape their hands. My time is up,
so now fare you well till we meet, which may
the Lord soon grant, for His Son's sake.
Amen.	VILATE KIMBALL."
	I well remember the morning that the news
came to our city of the murder of Joseph and
Hyrum. I had slept that night with Emily
Partridge at the house of Winsor P. Lyon.
The first sound that broke upon our ears was
the voice of Sister Lyon, as she opened the
door and told us that they were murdered.
	Many scenes in Nauvoo, some of which are
described by my mother, are still fresh in my
memory. I stood in the door as the procession
passed our house, which had increased to sev-
eral thousand, who followed the wagons bear-
ing the martyrs as they proceeded to the Man-
sion. I was an eye and car witness to the in-
sulting speech delivered by Governor Ford
upon the very frame of a building which stood
west of the Mansion, where a few days pre-
vious with thousands I had listened to Joseph's
last address to the Legion, never suspecting
treachery nor the awful tragedy that was being
enacted at Carthage, where this cowardly Gov-
ernor had pledged his honor and the faith of
the State that they should he protected. We
were promised that the laws should be magni-
fied and justice be meted out to their murder-
ers. It was the popularity of Joseph as can-
didate for the Presidency, and the power and
influence that the "Mormon" people were
gaining, that created a feeling of fear among
the apostates and corrupt politicians, and a
deeper hatred took possession of their hearts,
similar to that which was felt by the Jews
towards Jesus Christ, and like them they were
determined to put an end to his earthly career.
	It was the morning of June 24 when Jo-
seph and Hyrum, with the City Council, the
Marshal and a number of others, started on
horseback for Carthage. Joseph halted as
they reached the Temple, and looking with ad-
miration upon it and upon the beautiful city,
he remarked: "This is the loveliest place and
the best people under the heavens; little do
they know the trials that await them."
	Our history tells a tale of bitter woe—the
sufferings of the innocent, the robbings and
drivings from their homes, the wailings of the
widows and the orphans, the fathers and
mothers, brothers and sisters, for their dead
and dying, and the surrendering of their arms
and submitting to all the cruelties that could
be heaped upon them, rather than deny their
religion—but does it tell of any redress being
made for the wrongs done them by this nation?
No, nor do we look for any from them; but
our case will be taken to a higher court, whence
there is no appeal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 115﻿


THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

Pure and white a scroll unwritten
	The new year rises up to-night,
Must we enter it unbidden,
	Unwillingly our actions write?
The deeds of good or ill record,
	Marring its surface here and there,
Impious thought, or broken word,
	Resolves that never fruitage bear.

We gaze upon its open door,
	But dare not on its threshold tread,
Fain would we backward turn once more,
	Awhile to linger with the dead:
Our best intentions seem so frail,
	Our noblest plans a broken reed,
We would not raise the misty veil,
	The same old saddened tale to read.

Repenting, sinning—fold on fold,
	We wrap around of high resolves,
We start—but never reach the goal,
	Our strength in weakness all dissolves:
Our life is but a flying train,
	And wrecks are strown along the track,
We may not gather them again,
	We cannot if we would turn back.

In shiv'ring guise the old year stands,
	And mournful dirge sweeps o'er the way,
The ice winds speed along the lands,
	Unheeding both the grave and gay.
In gilded halls, on cushioned seat
	Their shrieks seem only wintry glee,
But when through wants' low walls they beat
	They wake the cry of misery.

The old year dies 'mid laugh and song,
	Where costly viands sparkle clear,
And through the mazy dance along,
	There traileth now dark pall and bier,
Yet pause they not, by corse or shroud,
	Still revelry and feast go on,
With boasting vain and thoughtless proud,
	Into the untried year move on.

Yet some between the old and new,
	Lay down their burdens at His feet.
And consecrate themselves anew,
	To life more perfect and complete—
There, countless millions kneel to-night,
	Low at the holy altars shrine
Apart from all that can allure,
	They seek for light and truth divine,
Some with generous hand hath staid,
	The widow's sigh, the orphan's moan,
And from the downward path of sin,
	Have brought some wandering children home.
Unholy gains thay have not stored,
	Nor turned the suff'ring poor away,
Have lived the teachings of their Lord,
	Walked humbly in His sight alway.

And in this solemn midnight dread,
	A white-robed army moves along,
And from the ashes of the dead,
	Rise peans of immortal song.
Jan. 1883.					L. M. HEWLINGS.


IN SCOTLAND.

HONORS TO PRESIDENT ELIZABETH CADY
	STANTON.
The North British Daily Mail, of Scotland,
Nov. 4, gives an extensive account of the great
demonstration in support of a memorial to her
Majesty’s government, praying for the exten-
sion of the parliamentary franchise to women
householders and rate payers, under the aus-
pices of the Scottish National Demonstration
of Women, at which Mrs. Stanton was ac-
corded the greatest honors. Of her address
the Mail reports;
“Mrs. Cady Stanton, an American lady”—I
can assure you I appreciate the honor that has
been conferred upon me in being permitted to
celebrate with you this grand event of the
crowning of thousands of Scottish women with
the great right of franchise. (Applause.) It
was here in Scotland where was fought, over
and over again, the  battle of freedom:


here where your own glorious poet, Robert
Burns, sang the glad songs of equality for hu-
manity that have gone around the world; here
where your grand novelist, Sir Walter Scott,
drew his heroines, grand, brave, self-asserting,
for I believe the pen of Scott never drew a
weak woman; here too, where your great
divine, Chalmers, so eloquently defended the
rights of individual conscience and judgment;
and it is fitting that here at last the right of
the franchise should be conferred on your
women. (Applause.) And what is this right
of suffrage—a right so laughed and scorned at
by those who do not appreciate its blessing and
its power. The right of suffrage gives you a
voice in the regulation of your homes, of your
streets, of your schools, of your religion, of
your politics. It is vain to talk of the home
being woman’s sphere so long as she has not a
word to say in regard to the laws that govern
that home. I was very much pleased with the
remarks of the speaker who preceded me in
her rebuke of your members of Parliament
and the House of Commons. But, remember,
my friends, behind every one of our legislators
there stands a woman. And what has been
the influence of the women in high places in
this great reform. They have whispered into
the ears of our legislators, our statesmen, our
philosophers that they had all the rights they
want. Our trouble has not been with the
men—they have been open to reason—our
trouble has been with the women themselves.
(Applause.) It is the saddest sight to me to
see a woman well clothed, fed and sheltered,
in the midst of most fortunate surroundings,
robed and mantled, all complacency about her-
self, and saying "I have, all the rights I want."
O, selfish one! I ask you to look over your
garden gate, where all is beauty, fragrance,
and peace, unto the wilderness beyond, where
the immortal flowers are fading fast, with
no kind hands to lift their drooping heads or
any kind hearts to speak them words of peace
and love. (Applause.) Remember, mothers
of Glasgow, our jails and prisons are regu-
lated by law, and what a power you have
in your hands in trying to build up higher
and better towns and cities in your midst.
Remember, man is the representative of jus-
tice, woman of mercy, and we need these two
grand elements everywhere, hand in hand,
walking up and down the highways of life.
(Applause.) It has sometimes been said that
this movement of ours is antagonistic to men.
My friends, how can that be? The women
on all our platforms have sons as well as
daughters, and think you a mother would do
aught to take from the dignity, the glory,
and the praise of her sons? (Applause.)"—Ex.


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	We have received an invitation to attend as a
delegate from Utah the National Woman Suf-
frage Association to be held in Washington,D. C.
January 23d, 24th and 25th. There will be
sessions daily at 10 a.m., and 8 p.m. The
afternoon will be devoted to the business of the
N. W. S. A., and its congressional work. It
is the wish of the officers of the Association
that delegates be present representing the wo-
men of every State and Territory in the
Union. Friends who cannot aid by their work
are solicited to contribute generously in money
to defray the necessary expenses of the Con-
vention. The call is issued by the Chairman
Executive Committtee and further signed by
Susan B. Anthony, Vice-President, and Ra-
chel G. Foster, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
MISCELLANEOUS.

	"WOMAN VS. MEN," is the alarming title of
a letter in to-day's Standard, but the terrors of
the title are nothing to the fearsome facts dis-

[Column 2]
closed. It appears that in the B. A. examina-
tions of the University of London only 42 per
cent of the men were successful, but of the
women 73 per cent.; and even of these only
one-third of the men succeeded in getting so
much as a secondclass, while only one-sixteenth
of the sweet girl-graduates failed to be placed
in the first division.
	The writer of the letter (Mr. A. P. Hens-
man) states that he took an active part in the
movement for the admission of women, and is
not a little proud of his female triumph; and
we think it must have been some prophetic
destiny that named him "Hensman." Stand-
ard, London.
	CETEVAYO'S ENGLISH PRESENTS. — The
Cape Times says:—"Cetevayo has brought
back from England many handsome and costly
souvenirs of his visit, including a stick with
silver head and silver ferule given to him by
the Prince of Wales, beautiful Cashmere shawls
from great ladies for his wife and female suite,
superb railway rugs and piles of prints and
other dress stuffs for the use of persons who
perfer the garb of Nora Creina. But of all
his mementoes that which he values most is a
great silver goblet presented to him by the
Queen and bearing the inscription—'Presented
to H. M. King Cetevayo by H. M. Queen
Victoria, August 14, 1882.' In addition to
the goblet the Queen gave him with her own
hands a photograph of herself, rather larger
than cabinet size."
	TITHES IN ENGLAND.—The origin of tithes
in England is curious enough. It would ap-
pear that Ethelbert, King of East Anglia,
made proposals of marriage to Althrida,
daughter of Ofia, King of Mercia. These
proposals were favorably received by Offa, who
had no sooner got the unfortunite suitor in his
power than he barbarously murdered him.
For this heinous sin Offa made his peace with
the church by granting it the tenth part of the
produce of his realm. All this happened in
the west of England about the year 786. In
the time of Edward VI. (1553) the church
tithes may be said to have been placed on the
basis on which they now rest. Since then land
has been continuously rising in value, and con-
sequently with it the amount of tithes. Until
the passing of the Commutation act, in 1836,
there used to be constant dissensions and law-
suites between the clergy and their parishion-
ers as to the collection of these dues. Some-
times a farmer would deliberately allow a crop
to be spoiled, and thereby leave the parson
without any remedy. Sometimes he would
prosecute the clergyman for not removing his
tithe in reasonable time, and he would stop up
roads and bar gates so as to give the clergyman,
his carts and teams a longer journey to and
back with his booty. The act of commutation
removed many of these petty grievances of
which both tithe-payer and tithe-owner com-
plained. The clergyman was by this act to re-
ceive every year the money equivalent of a
fixed and definite number of quarters of corn.
This constitutes the modern tithes which alone
bring into the church a revenue exceeding
twenty million dollars annually, though this
vast sum by no means exhausts the sources of
ecclesiastical wealth.
	A very great grievance at the present mo-
ment is a so-called "extra tithes." These are
levied exclusively on orchards, vegetable gar-
dens, and certain crops, such as hops. They
vary in most every county and parish, and
range from four to fifteen shillings an acre.
They form, therefore, a serious item in the ex-
pense of working such properties, and have
contributed not only a little to increase the im-
ports from abroad into England of hops, fruit
and vegetables. At the present moment they
are being strenuously resisted by farmers in
many parts, though as the law stands there is
but little hope of immediate redress.


116	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1883.


﻿THE YEAR 1883.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT sends a hearty
greeting of a happy new year to its many readers.
Whether here at home in the valleys of the
mountains, or afar off over the seas or in what-
ever land or clime the little messenger finds its
way. May it carry with it a blessing, truth,
light, a ray of sunshine, that all who read it may
be cheered, encouraged in the path of duty,
urged to persevere in doing good and assisting
others. Stronger in the faith and more earnest
in labors for the kingdom of God upon the
earth.
	The new year is a time for good resolves, a
desire to improve in all that will help one to
gain the sure road to happiness here and here-
after. A desire to gain light and intelligence
that will be to the soul like a fountain of pure
water to refresh invigorate and strengthen it.
The year has dawned suspiciously for the Saints,
peace prosperity and every needed blessing
abounds in Utah, and future prospects seem
propitions.
	It is good to have such days as Christmas and
New Year's when one is expected to greet
friends and acquaintances with kindly or affec-
tionate salutation. One might grow cold and
hard were it not for some of the pleasant re-
minders that swoop down now and then, and
enfold one in such a loving embrace that one is
glad to submit to all the extra responsibilities,
which ever attend upon new phases and condi-
tions, for the gladness and joy it brings to the
heart. To become indifferent to the happiness
of others and be swallowed up in one's own am-
bition pride or pleasure is a very common falling
among mortals, and sometimes creates such
selfishness as to exclude even politeness, where
affability and kindness should be extended.
Kind words, cheerfulness and smiles help
one wonderfully, to be sure this is not all,
but they are often more acceptable than gifts.
This is not a homily however upon kindness
love or charity but a new year's greeting, and
whatever short comings, faults or blunders, the
EXPONENT may have been answerable for in the
past, we trust that in the future it will be able
to correct them, and improve in its appearance
ere the year that has just dawned shall have
drawn to a close. And again "A Happy New
Year" to all our friends and patrons.


[Column 1]
MRS. SAXON'S LETTERS.

	WE have received from New Orleans two
copies of the "Times Democrat," Dec. 8 and 15,
containing the letters written by Mrs. Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon while in this city dated Nov. 29
and Dec. 7. She writes without fear and tells
what she has seen, and how she has been treat-
ed by the "Mormon" people. In her first letter

[Column 2]
she speaks thus of her visit to Capt. Hooper's
soon after her arrival in this city:
	"I brought with me a letter of introduction to
him (Mr. Hooper), and as he was ill, his wife
came down and met me very cordially. I was
glad of an interview with Mrs. Hooper, for she
is an only wife, the mother of seven children.
One of her daughters is the wife of Prof.
Young, a son of Brigham's, who is one of the
corps of teachers at West Point Academy.
Mrs. Hooper is a believer in the Mormon re-
ligion, and a stout defender of its tenets. She
spoke with contempt of the Salt Lake Tribune,
declaring that if it did speak well of any Mor-
mon the rest would think that something was
wrong, so bitter and coarse had been its lan-
gauge and expressions toward them. The
Tribune editor had told me: 'It paid Hooper to
be a Mormon, and he didn't care anything about
it as a religion.'"
	The next item in her first letter is her visit to
the President of the Church. We give it com-
plete in her own language:
	"I was accompanied by Mrs. E. B. Wells to
the Gardo House to see President Taylor. This
gentleman is now President of the Church, and
has been since the death of Brigham Young.
He was one of the men in Carthage jail with
Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum when
they were killed by the mob. Taylor was hit by
four balls. He is a stern, grave, stately and in-
telligent man, 74 or 75 years of age. He was in
the act of starting, in company with George Q.
Cannon, down to Manti, and our conversation
was very brief. 'Mrs. S. is a newspaper cor-
respondent,' said Mrs. Wells. He smiled
gravely and said, 'All we crave of Mrs. S. is
that she will tell the truth about us. Very few
do that in speaking of us.' 'Believe me, Presi-
dent Taylor,' I replied, 'I shall give your side as
fairly as I can; I look through no glasses colored
by bitter prejudice. I shall state the facts as I
see them.' A few pleasant words to Mrs. W.
and he left us."
	After this follows a good description of the
Gardo House, the Beehive and Lion Houses and
the office buildings occupied by the Church.
She speaks at some length of these places and
what she saw, and then says:
	"Nothing can be more entertaining than the
long talks with Mrs. Young, hearing her tell of
the varied experiences in her journeyings
through the Territory for near 15 years, as the
companion of her husband. She has become
familiar with the people, especially the Indian
tribes, that the Mormons call the 'Lamanites'
from the Book of Mormon."
	She speaks of our judicial affairs intelligently
and approvingly, of her visits in Mormon
homes, the people she met with, etc. A com-
plete description of the Assembly Hall and the
impressive services on the Sabbath and the ad-
ministering of the Sacrament. Here is another
extract from her letter which may be of some
interest, as it shows the true feeling "Mormon"
women have when the sacred and holy condi-
tions of celestial marriage are compared with
the vile practices which exist so extensively in
large cities:
	"I was told by a very good Mormon member
that one of the commissioners had stated 'that
he felt sorry he had seen so little of the Mormon
families during their stay here.' I am certain
that no people living could be much more
patient under all of the Federal meddling with
their affairs than the Mormons are. They hold
their religious tenets with a dogged resolve, and
they claim all as under revelation, plural mar-
riage as well. Looking at it or trying to discuss
it from a physiological standpoint is one thing
that nettles the women of the better class as
much as anything well can. I was talking

[Column 3]
with a very intelligent Scotchman to-day, and
he was citing some cases regarding our foundl-
ing hospitals and ohter Christian charities, re-
sulting from vices, and made a remark of a
nature calculated to arouse the ire of my lady
friends, and it was some little time before I
could induce them to try and consider how much
bearing this would be bound to have in dis-
cussing a subject of such nature. We held a
very earnest conversation on this subject, and
I learned from them many interesting items
in regard to the religious effect on the vices of
great cities as contrasted by the lives of Mor-
mon people, where a child is welcomed joyfully
as affording a tabernacle for a spirit to dwell in."
	In her second letter Mrs. Saxon comments
upon the political situation in reference to John
T. Caine, the Delegate of the People's Party,
and Judge Van Zile, the "Liberal" candidate,
then gives it as her opinion that the ultimate
"effect of the Edmunds bill will be hard to fore-
cast. It is impossible to convince even those
Gentiles who incline most favorably to the
Mormon people, owing to their honest, frugal,
temperate lives, that plural marriage is not still
carried on, as it is one of their revelations, and
most cherished and sacred ordinances. Com-
mon sense tells us that to legislate and enforce
law in this direction will constitute a police sys-
tem of such a nature as to place every house
under the espionage of paid individuals, and the
results growing from such a system be a more
terrible evil than the one against which we are
fighting."
	Mrs. Saxon speaks of the faith of the "Mor-
mons" in this wise:
	"Believing, as they do, in the prophecies of
the 'Latter-day Saints,' they have every reason
to anticipate great and marked changes for
themselves, under the new order and conditions
that a change of national politics will inevitably
bring about. Persecution they expect from
every quarter, and some of them glory in it, for
it more firmly unites the church and renews
the zeal of the lukewarm, binding them as a
people more closely together. This may be
fanatical and weak to the last degree, but what
can you do with a stubborn fact? Sensible,
practical, matter of fact business men will sit
down and give you the Bible, old and new, the
prophecies of Moses and Smith alike, the book
of Mormon, and Doctrines and Covenants, with
as much zeal as an old Scotch Covenanter would
the Bible; declare that he holds all true alike,
and is ready to be offered up for his loyalty to
Joseph Smith. In this day of changing faiths,
let us look upon this resolute willingness to 'die
for a cause,' with an eye of sober judgment and
put passion by. The prophecies of the past, the
signs of the times, the spirit of the people, all
seem to indicate some great and nationally im-
portant event in the near future; and to a Mor-
mon 'Zion' is paramount to all else. They be-
lieve, and so express themselves, that we are
living in the 'last days,' and this modern 'Zion'
is the promised refuge of Israel. I am glad to
say that not until to-day have I had the pleasure
of reading the letter written by Phil. Robinson
to the New York World during the summer.
He bears out my assertions made in my two let-
ters first written."
	Here is another mention of Sunday services
made in her second letter to The Times:
	"I was at church to-day and heard George Q.
Cannon speak. He is one of the twelve apostles
of the Church and had just returned from a
week's visiting with President Taylor in the
Territory. He spoke to about 3,000 people. Not
one left the church. He told of the prosperity
of the people; of the union of sentiment among
them; of the desire to be faithful to all trusts
and loyal in every way to the general govern-


ment. That this vast crowd of people are 'serfs'
is as false on the face of it as anything well can
be. The one great feature is their union and
religious zeal, and the slight line of demarcation
drawn between rich and poor. Every one is
'sister' and 'brother.' The mistress is called
'sister' by the maid who cooks her dinner, and
affection of the most brotherly character is in-
culcated in every meeting. Strife is denounced,
and arbitration is the prevailing rule. Going in-
to law courts is most severely condemned."
	There are several other items in the letters
we should be pleased to notice but have only
space for one more at this time:
	"I was invited, with my hostess, to a surprise
party given a Mormon lady on her sixty-fourth
blrthday; and truth compels me to say that for
genuine, enjoyable hospitality and good-fellow-
ship, memory holds not its equal for many years
past. The party coming brought the refresh-
ments; every relative was informed, and many
of the fifty-four grandchildren of this 'Mother
in Israel' were on hand. Mrs. M. I. Horne and
her husband sat together, when Mrs. Weils
came forward, and, in a neat address, presented
her a magnificent photographic album, with her
friends' pictures within. Her good and noble
life was referred to with genuine heartiness.
Mrs. Horne responded briefly. One of the
daughters sang, the children joining in the
chorus. Then a lovely little poem, 'To Mother,'
was read by the eldest son. Then an original
song by one of her charity co-workers was sung,
all joining in the chorus. Mayor Jennings and
his agreeable wife, with other leading Mormons,
were present. He gave a toast to the lady; a
thanksgiving prayer was offered. Then came a
variety of refreshing delicacies, all handed
around by the sons, sons-in-law, daughters and
daughters in-law of the jovial but young-look-
ing couple, who looked as if they might travel
some time on the declining hill of life, and en-
joy it too, before they slept the final sleep at its
foot, when the fever of living is over. The
evening was essentially cheerful, but its pre-
vailing feature was its religious character. The
Mormon lives his religion in his daily life. The
graces at table, the reverential deference to
Deity, the thankfulness on all occasions are
something that is too real to be anything save
sincere and heartfelt."
	This highly cultured lady who has traveled
from Maine to Texas with her eyes open, and
visited women of all classes and in all condi-
tions, has not one word to say detrimental to
the Latter-day Saints. She came here to see
and to write, to learn facts as they actually
exist, and every opportunity possible in so short
a time was afforded her, to see and hear for her-
self. If more of those who visit Utah would
take pains to gather facts of their own observa-
tions for material to write about, there would be
much less prejudice against this people outside.
Her description of the Woman's Meeting in
this city was truthful and certainly calculated
to impress all who read it with the earnestness
and zeal of the sisters old and young, and the
effectual exertions made to train up the young
in the ways of the Lord, and to understand
their mission upon the earth, instead of en-
couraging them in the vanities and frivolities of
the world. She speaks of the "Mormon" wo-
men as having ideas of their own and express-
ing them with as much readiness as other
women, and that if they were not honest and
zealous in their religion they would make things
pretty lively for the men who are engaged in it.
Mrs. Saxon knows perfectly well that the ladies
whom she met here are earnest, devout Chris-
tians, and that they are working for a better
condition for humanity, in fact for the redemp-
tion of the human family.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 117


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE Unity Club will give an entertainment
on Thursday evening, Jan. 4, for the benefit
of the Deseret Hospital in the 12th Ward School-
house; the performance will commence at 7:30
o'clock. The programme is an excellent one
consisting of music, vocal and instrumental,
recitations and tableaux, historical and myth-
ological. The committee, Mrs. Maggie Jen-
nings, Mrs. Annie W. Cannon, Mrs. Nett Snell,
Miss Prissie Jennings, and Miss Talulah Young,
have labored earnestly, ardently and continuous-
ly to make the affair pleasing and successful.

	THE Primary concert in the 11th Ward, New
Year's night, was a splendid affair. The
chorus by one hundred and twenty-five voices
was well rendered and the exercises were all in
keeping. The fairy play "The Sleeping Beauty"
was a complete success; the costumes were
pretty and the piece was well presented. Mrs.
Louie Felt deserves great credit as also her as-
sistants who aided her in giving so pleasing an
entertainment. The object is a worthy one, to
benefit an institution for the sick and injured.
The programme is to be repeated for the benefit
of the children of the Association, and we hope
the house will be again crowded to its utmost
capacity in favor of the Association.

	THE Thirteenth Ward Sunday School children
had a time of rejoicing on Thursday, Dec. 28th
Great preparations were made by the Superin-
tendent, Wm. Naylor and his assistants, Wm.
Hennefer and Joseph Morris, also the ladies of
the Sunday School of the Ward, Mrs. Elizabeth
H. Goddard, Mrs. Susan Stringam, Misses
Rumel, Reading, and others. Three Christmas
trees were loaded with presents of a very great
variety and beautiful to look upon. The after-
noon was spent in dancing and pleasant pas-
times, and at 4 o'clock the distribution of pres-
ents begun; the were all numbered and a cor-
responding number given to the child that drew
the gift, which was handed down immediately
from the tree, and the recipient made happy.
Three special prizes were awarded for punctuality,
diligence, deportment, attendance and aiding in
the work. The first was awarded to little Clara
Lawson, seven years of age; second, Anna
Stromberg, and third, Lydia Hanks. There
were some exercises in music, singing, and reci-
tation that deserve special notice. Supt. George
Goddard offered prayer, then the hymn "When
Jesus shall come in His glory," was sung; after-
wards recitations, "Elder Orson Pratt, the ven-
erable Apostle," by little Clara Lawson; "The
old Soldier," by Master Thomas Sloan; "Bingen
on the Rhine," Miss Louie Platte; singing,
Miss Annie Peterson, "They'll miss me when
I'm gone;" Miss Anna Stromberg, "Bye and
bye you will forget me." Elder C. R. Savage
came in a few moments and sang "The Merry
Mormons" in his happiest manner; he also pre-
sented a handsome Bible, Sunday School teach-
er's edition, to the Superintendent, Wm. Nay-
lor, who has filled that position nearly seven
years. Brother Goddard sang the "Hazel Dell,"
and six little girls sang together very sweetly.
It was a pleasant interchange of kindly feelings
between old and young as well as a time to be
specially remembered by the little people. There
were over 300 children present, and as gay and
merry as possible. It was certainly quite a suc-
cess.

	ON Thursday, Dec. 28, 1882, a meeting was
called by the Bishop of the 20th Ward, to con-
vene in the schoolhouse at 2 o'clock p.m. Mrs.
E. S. Taylor, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Central Board, her counselor, Miss Mattie
Horne, and Mrs. E. B. Wells were present by
invitation, Bishop John Sharp took charge of

[Column 2]
the meeting and effected the following organiza-
tion after some consultation with the ladies
present. Elder L. W. Richards acted as secre-
tary. The following officers were sustained by
unanimous vote: Mrs. Lula Greene Richards,
president; Mrs. Annie G. Sharp and Miss Clara
J. Romney, counselors; Miss Celia Sharp, sec-
retary; Miss Emma Phillips, assistant secre-
tary, and Miss Nettie Sharp, treasurer. The
Bishop gave some excellent advice to the young
sisters, and Mrs. Taylor, Mrs. Miller, Mrs. Wells,
Mrs. Richards and Miss Horne each made some
appropriate and suggestive remarks to the young
people on the subject of their organization.

	THE entertainment arranged for the orphan
children of the 15th Ward on Christmas day,
was appropriate and commendable. To do good
is always in keeping with the example of our
Savior, but to bless and make happy the hearts
of the fatherless is certainly in accordance with
divine precepts. The Christmas trees were
handsomely trimmed and many of the articles
were made by the fair hands of the good sisters
who assisted Mrs. S. M. Kimball, as well as by
herself; she is very ingenious in making arti-
ficial birds, elephants, rabbits, camels, etc. The
trees were lighted up splendidly with petite
wax tapers, and the hall was like a fairy picture.
Presents, useful and ornamental, were distribut-
ed to the little folks and every heart made hap-
py. There were about thirty children present.
They will undoubtedly remember Sister Kim-
ball in after years as a sort of fairy godmother.
She has indeed proved herself a mother in
Israel.


IN MEMORIAM.

ARTEMISIA BEAMAN SNOW.

	It becomes a sad and painful duty to record
the demise of our dearly beloved Sister Arte-
misia, wife of Apostle Erastus Snow, who de-
parted this life at 12:30 a.m., just past midnight,
of the 21st of December, after a lingering illness
through which she evinced a spirit of fortitude
and resignation to the will of heaven, although
she dreaded the pang of death.
	She was the eighth and youngest child of Alva
Beaman and Sarah Burits Beaman, and was
born March 3, 1810, at Livonia, Livingston Co.,
New York, and was the mother of eleven chil-
dren, eight sons and three daughters, all of
whom are living except three. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints at an early date, and with her
father's family removed to Kirtland, Ohio,
where her father died in 1837, a much esteemed
and highly respected member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With her
mother and two sisters, Mary and Louisa, she
removed to Missouri, where she was married to
Elder Erastus Snow, at Far West, Dec. 18th,
1838, by the late Heber C. Kimball. Soon after
she, with her husband. moved to Nauvoo,
Illinois, at the time of the expulsion of Saints
from Missouri through the exterminating order
of the notorious and vindictive Governor, Lil-
burn W. Boggs.
	Sister Artemisia was one of those who
officiated in the Nauvoo Temple. She might
truly be termed a wanderer in early life,
being in the persecutions and expulsions of
the Saints from Ohio, Missouri and Illinois.
She was in the first company that left Nauvoo
in February, 1846, crossing the Mississippi on
the ice. She drove a team across the plains in
1818, and came to St. George in 1861. She was
a faithful member of the Relief Society from
its first organization here, and also President of
the Y. L. M. I. Association when first organized
and was much beloved by all with whom she
associated.


Her sister Louisa was the first woman mar-
ried in the Patriarchal order of marriage, being
the second wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Her sister, Mary Adeline Noble, bore the first
child in this order of marriage. Sister Arte-
misia was a firm believer in this order of mar-
riage from its first institution, and freely gave
her consent for her husband to take other wives,
which law he obeyed and she lived and associat-
ed with them through life, and was ever a
mother, a comforter and companion to them;
each one of them bearing testimony to her
merit and worth, and I would refer the readers
of the EXPONENT to an address of her's pub-
lished in the issue of the 15th October last,
which more fully declares her sentiments.
	Thus has another noble spirit departed, one
whom we would gladly have retained in our
midst, and we truly feel the loss of her society,
and while we mourn her loss we testify of her
worth as a true Latter-day Saint. She was ever
genial and kind, a loving mother and generous
friend, kind to the poor and needy, a comforter
to the weary and oppressed. Sisters, be com-
forted; we shall meet her again, if we remain
faithful, in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion.
				FRANCES C. BROWN,
					Stake Secretary R. S.
	ST. GEORGE, Dec. 26, 1882.


118	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having, in company with Janie Loveland,
Counselor, and Lydia S. Pierce, Secretary, re-
cently returned from a highly interesting tour
through the northern portion of Box Elder
Stake, in the interests of our Y. L. M. I. A's.
I trust that a brief review of our journey and
labors may prove of interest to some of your
numerous readers.
	Bro. Chas. Kelley, Stake President of the Y.
M. M. I. A.'s, with his Counselor, N. Madsen,
also, R. Jones, Secretary, arranged to travel
with us, visiting, at the same time, their asso-
ciations in the settlements lying in the district
above mentioned. Accordingly, appoint-
ments were sent forward some days previous
to our starting.
	The morning fixed for leaving could scarcely
have been more unpropritious; a heavy, furious
snow and wind storm had set in, also, at inter-
vals, accompanied by pelting sleet, the
weather having turned severely cold. Several
of our friends advised us to abandon this un-
dertaking, an idea we could not foster for a
moment, that of allowing our appointments to
fail, while the gentlemen's were being ful-
filled. Therefore, we bundled up, stepped into
our vehicle, placed our feet on warm bricks,
improvised for the occasion, and gathering
more closely our wraps around us, indicated to
our symyathizing coachman that we were
quite ready.
	Having made a run of twenty miles, speak-
ing in railroad parlance, through snow, mud
and driving sleet, we arrived at Bear River
Crossing, stopped at Brother Standings, and
partook of refreshments generously prepared
by his estimable wife.
	We had now another twenty miles before us
ere we reached Portage, where we had an ap-
pointment at seven in the evening, and the
storm, the severe cold, and fierce wind not
abated. Here again was suggested by some of
the gentlemen the propriety of our returning,
but quite failed of eliciting any signs of weak-
ness. When within five miles of our destina-
tion, darkness overtook us, which, together
with the disagreeable circumstances already
mentioned, failed in adding much enchantment

[Column 2]
to the scene connected with this part of our
tour. We reached Portage, however, just in
season to dispel the cold chills, warm up, and
be on time to fill our appointment. We had a
very interesting and profitable meeting, the
Spirit of the Lord being abundantly poured
out both upon speakers and hearers. At the
close of the addresses, we attended to some
matters relating to the more complete organi-
zation of the Young Ladies Association.
	Having been very hospitably entertained,
we proceeded next morning on our way, and
after a drive of about twenty miles, arrived at
Malad City, Idaho, where we held a very in-
teresting meeting with the Y. L. A., number-
ing about seventy-five members, and in a very
prosperous condition. The day following, we
held a conjoint meeting of the members of the
Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. Associations, filled
several vacancies, and effected three new or-
ganizations. Having here finished our inter-
esting labors; we took leave of the hospitable
Bishop and family, together with numerous
warm-hearted friends, and proceeded on to
Samaria, some ten miles distant, still in Idaho.
Here the meetinghouse was filled to overflow-
ing and the Good Spirit prevailed, and all re-
joiced together, visitors and visited, a time
never to be forgotten. Having attended to the
business required, we left this interesting
locality, and turned our faces homeward.
	Our next appointment was looked forward
to with unusual and extraordinary interest, at
the little city of Washikee, a Lamanite settle-
ment of about two hundred inhabitants, located
some three miles south of West Portage, in
Box Elder Co., presided over by Bishop Zun-
del, assisted by Brothers Ward and Hunsaker.
We were informed they had over two thousand
acres enclosed, six or seven hundred under
cultivation, had harvested upwards of three
thousand bushels of grain this season, had
quite a number of cows, a large herd of sheep,
many horses, and were well supplied with
wagons, farming implements, etc. We noticed
several fine brick houses, and were told they
burned their lime, made their brick, and
hauled all their building material themselves.
They have a large commodious frame building
which serves for their schools and meetings; a
very excellent school is now in progress, con-
sisting of thirty-five or forty young Lamanite
girls and boys, under the superintendency of
Brother Chandler, a very efficient and ex-
perienced teacher, who rejoices in this labor
and mission. We were informed that his dusky
pupils compared favorably with our white
children as regards their intellect, aptness and
readiness to acquire book knowledge, etc. We
were joyfully received on our arrival at this
curious and unique gathering, and warmly
greeted by hearty hand shaking, in which all
gladly participated. We gazed with wonder,
with feelings impossible to describe, upon these
Indian Saints as they were gathered and
seated in their assembly hall. The women,
neatly attired in hats, bonnets and shawls,
carrying their babes in their arms instead of
upon their backs, according to their former
custom. The men dressed the same as our
white brethren, with hair cut short, neatly
combed, etc.; and to crown all, making this
scene so impressive and solemn, was the sacred
and earnest devotion impressed upon every
feature of their countenances, while their choir
chanted praises to the Lord in their native
tongue, and one of their number opened the
meeting by prayer in the same language. When
the time was announced for commencing meet-
ing, the Indian Deacon, with becoming gravity,
and a reasonable amount of official importance
and dignity, drew from his breast pocket a
large brass key, with which he ceremoniously
locked the door; then taking the key and re-
placing it, he resumed his seat; arising there-

[Column 3]
after only to quietly admit some tardy member,
or reluctantly allow egress to an anxious appli-
cant. The order and attention observed
throughout the entire services were highly ex-
emplary.
	There was not a sufficient number of young
Lamanite sisters to form an independent or-
ganization, so we concluded to unite them, for
the time being, with the Young Men's Associa-
tion, and appointed a young lady to act as sec-
retary. The good Spirit manifested here,
warmed our hearts, giving utterance to our
thoughts as freely as at any of our previous
meetings, and its sweet and holy influences
were equally felt by the listeners.
	Leaving this singular community of Indian
Saints, formerly known only as savages, we
proceeded to fill our next appointment at Bear
River City, about thirty miles distant, where
we were very kindly received, and addressed a
large and appreciative audience. We were
pleased to find our association here in good con-
dition, spirited, and wide awake to their re-
sponsibilities.
	About three miles from this place we filled
our last engagement at the thriving little town
called Honeyville. We then drove home, ar-
riving in safety, our hearts overflowing with
gratitude to the Giver of All Good, for His
blessings, preserving care, and the aid of His
Holy Spirit accompanying and inspiring our
labors.
				MINNIE J. SNOW,
					Supt. Y. L. M. I. A.
	Brigham City, Dec. 27, 1882.

LOGAN CITY, Nov. 9, 1882.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I send you these few lines to put in your
paper, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, as I thought
you would like to know how our Primary As-
sociation of the First Ward of Logan is get-
ting along. I am only twelve years old and
am a teacher in the Association, and can tell
you with truth that I do all I can to help my
President, Sister Lundburg, with the Primary.
I sometimes sing and dismiss meeting and bear
my testimony, and with my sister teacher,
Maud Lamoreaux, gather money or calico for
the benefit of our Primary. I think God is
very good to give us health and strength, that
we may perform all the duties that are required
of us; and I know God is good to His chil-
dren, if we obey our parents, say our prayers
and do what is right. And if we read the
Bible and other good books, we will find God's
word is true, what He has said about His com-
ing on the earth to reign with His people.
	Hoping yon will find space in your good
paper, I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					SELINA P. BURTON.

PLAIN CITY. Dec. 18, 1882.

	On Friday, Nov. 24, at ten o'clock a. m.,
our little folks comprising the Plain City Pri-
mary Association assembled at the School
House to hold their Quarterly Conference and
to go through their exercises in singing, recit-
ing, etc. They number one hundred and
thirty.nine members. The meetings are inter-
esting and well attended. The children ac-
quitted themselves during the Conference to
the satisfaction of their parents, teachers and
friends. The pieces in the programme were
well chosen, and of that character that tends
to the elevation and ennobling of the minds of
those who partake of them. The exercises
were brought to a close with some short yet
excellent advice by Bishop L. W. Shurtliff and
Sisters Raymond and Shoemaker; they spoke
very encouragingly, and exhorted the children
to keep on in the good work in which they are
engaged. The little folks then partook of a
picnic, in which they enjoyed themselves ex-


[Column 1]
ceedingly well, after which they spent a few
hours in dancing, retiring to their homes at a
reasonable hour.
			JOSEPHINE CHRISTENSEN, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Fair on the 24th of September,
and although it was pretty good for such a
small settlement, still it did not quite come up
to our expectations. In our display might be
named, a box of charcoal, burned in the moun-
tains by a very little boy, some very nice
brackets, cornucopias, tidies, a very nice wind
mill by one of the little boys, a very nice
watch pocket done in wool, wool flowers, draw-
ings, lots of things too numerous to mention.
We had a visit from some of the sisters of
Payson and Santaquin, who gave us good in-
struction.
	We also held our annual meeting on the
21st of October, when the little folks were
treated to refreshments. They had some good
instructions from the sisters, after which they
joined in the dance for a short time, when all
went home in the best of humor.
	Wishing the EXPONENT every success, we
remain your sisters in the Gospel,
			SARAH ROBERTS, President.
			CHRISTINA HIGGINSON, Secretary.
	Goshen, Nov. 14, 1882.

WASATCH STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake was held in Heber City Hall, Nov. 16,
1882, Mrs. Emma Brown presiding. On the
platform were the second counselor, Mrs. Mary
Daybell and the presidents of the different
branches in the Stake. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
and Mrs. E. B. Wells from Salt Lake City,
Bishop Rasband and other brethren. After
usual exercises and reading of minutes Mrs.
Young made a few encouraging remarks, felt
glad to see the sisters coming together to learn
the ways of the Lord. The Wards were then
represented, East Heber by Mrs. Rasband;
West Heber by Mrs. Foreman, Midway, Mrs.
Charlotte Gurney; Charleston, Mrs. Melissa
Murdock; Centre, Mrs. Cluff. Mrs. Wells
made some remarks in regard to the improve-
ment of the sisters who attend their meetings,
spoke of the Deseret Hospital, and made some
explanations in regard to the donations from
the Societies, said there had been a great deal
expended in fitting up the institution to make
it convenient and comfortable for the patients.
She urged the sisters to dovote a potion of time,
if it was only one hour or half hour in a day
to reading good books and cultivating their
minds, and also to read the papers and become
conversant with what was transpiring in the
world, instead of working so hard as she felt
sure many of them did. Knowledge we can
take with us when we go home but not our
worldy goods. Bishop Rasband said he felt
pleased with the meeting and asked the Lord
to bless the sisters who had come to counsel
and instruct the sisters in their duties in this
Stake of Zion. Singing, benediction by Bro.
Todd.
	Afternoon Session: Singing. Prayer by Bro.
Todd, singing. Mrs. Wells made some remarks
upon faith and the peculiar significance of the
hour, and expressed her pleasure at seeing
so many of the brethren attend the Confer-
ence. Mrs. Young spoke of the training
of the children, urged the mothers to keep
them around them and teach them prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and enjoined upon
them to know where their children were at
night. Advised the sisters to read the Book
of Mormon, the book of Doctrine and Coven-
ants, and they would receive spiritual life and
strength therefrom and increase in faith and
be better qualified to rear their children.

[Column 2]
	President Hatch made some interesting re-
marks and suggested that Sister Watson act
temporarily in the place of Sister Muir as the
latter was living at present in Salt Lake City.
President Hatch felt pleased to have the sisters
from Salt Lake come to visit us. Mother
Duke bore a testimony to the truth of the
Gospel. President Brown felt pleased with
the counsel that had been given, and thought
we had enjoyed a good time together. Con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing
and benediction.
			MARY BRONSON, Sec.
			AVIS M. BRONSON, Ass't Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 119


MARRIED.

	Mr. Samuel G. Spencer, of Pleasant Green,
son of the late Daniel and Mary Jane C. Spen-
cer, and Miss Emma Gedge, of Brighton Ward,
eldest daughter of William and Rachel Gedge,
were joined in. holy wedlock, by counselor
Daniel H. Wells, Thursday, December 21,
1882. They are a very handsome and prom-
ising young couple; and are starting out on
life’s journey very young, with every indication
of a bright and happy future before them. They
celebrated the occassion by giving a party and
supper at the bridegroom’s residence. We join
with their many friends in wishing them long
life, happiness and prosperity.		A. S. H.
	The EXPONENT congratulates the newly
wedded pair Mr. and Mrs. Spencer, and wishes
for them every blessing and experience that
will help them to secure the highest exaltation.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

SAN JUAN RIVER, New Mexico,
				Dec. 20, 1882.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I had fondly hoped to have seen you, with
many of my dear sisters and friends in Utah
ere this, but fate has decided otherwise. I
burried another precious baby boy the eighth
of September last, and on the nineteenth of
the same month I started on a visit to the
North, thinking that the society of friends and
relatives might help to soothe the grief that
seemed to make the future look so dark. My one
little girl was with me, and in company with
some other acquaintances we reached Moab,
Emery Co., where I concluded to remain a few
weeks with a brother. While there the sad
news came to me of the death of Mrs. Matilda
Burnham, who died the 13th of October, six
hours after giving birth to a son, her eleventh
child. She was in the 33d year of her age,
was the wife of Luther C. Burnham and
daughter of John and Eliza Barnett. For
the last five years she, with the rest of the
family, has been laboring as missionaries to
the Navajoes, and by them she was much be-
loved. Previous to her moving to this coun-
try, she resided at Hyde Park, Cache Co., and
was an active and devoted member of the
Relief Society. Her sudden death cast a
gloom over all her friends and especially to
her own family was it sad, to whom she was
a loving wife, a kind mother and sister, and
a pleasant companion and is deeply mourned
for by all who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance. After receiving this sad message,
I returned home at once and with the help of
the Lord will do all I am capable of for the
bereaved family.
	There are only eight sisters in this place,
making it very lonely at times. Sister Aba-
gail Stevens is a faithful nurse and a great
help in times of sickness and trouble. Oh!
how often we think of the great and good
times you have at your meetings in Salt Lake,
and so wish for the time to come when we may

[Column 2]
enjoy the blessed influence that ever attends
such gatherings. The sweet spirit there en-
joyed would help to lift us above the cares of
this life. We trust we are not forgotten by
these same dear sisters whom we regard as the
greatest and best women that live upon the
earth. How thankful we should all feel for
the light of the Gospel that all may enjoy if
humble and prayerful, and how can they live
who are not prayerful? I fear we are too care-
less in regard to this. There is no comfort
like the Spirit of God, that will ever abide
with us if we seek faithfully for it. How
much we have to be grateful for that the world
knows nothing of. We have pure and upright
men for husbands and fathers, and we have
perfect confidence in them knowing that the
secret acts of their lives would bring no dis-
grace on us, or our innocent children. Have
the women of the world this confidence in their
"Leige Lords," would to heaven they had;
there would be many an aching heart lighter,
many desolate homes happier, many innocent
girls saved from the terrible fate that awaits
them through the evils of the present genera-
tion. Do we need the pity of the world? For
my part I think it would be better if they
would pity the condition of their own souls,
and try to save them and not worry so much
about the women of the Latter-day Saints,
who are many times better off than they them-
selves are. In conversation not long since
with a Gentile gentleman, he told me that he
had understood that all the wives who entered
a family after the first wife, did so as servants
to the first family. I assured him that the
people called "Mormons," were too intelligent
and independent to be slaves that all wives
were equal, the marriage ceremony being ex-
actly the same for each wife.
	I have been much interested in Mrs. Scott's
letters and pleased that so many of our sisters
reply to them, have often wished I Mas capable
of so doing, but I trust that she with every
honest hearted person may become convinced
of the Truth, for that will bring more peace
and satisfaction than any amount of wealth
and grandeur could do. We are having love-
ly weather now almost like summer. The
merry holidays will soon be here. God grant
that the New Year may be a happy one for
the Saints; and for all who love to do right.
Success to the EXPONENT always. It comes
like a dear old friend and cheers many a lone-
ly home.	MARY STEWART BURNIIAN.

FILLMORE CITY,
	Dec. 12th, 1882.

DEAR MRS. SCOTT:
	As I am a reader of the EXPONENT, have
become very much interested in you also in
your questions and the answers by the Sisters,
on our religious principles I bear my testimony
to you, that they are every word true and em-
anate from the holy laws of God the Eternal
Father.
	I obeyed the Gospel in the Far South at the
early age of 13 years, have never doubted for
one moment since of the truth of this work,
it being 31 years last August since I became a
member of the Chnrch of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints; my husband entered into
the order of Celestial Marriage with my full
and free consent, and I have lived 21 years
in that order of Marriage and I bear my tes-
timony to you that it is true and emanates
from a Superior Power than that of man.
	I do not deny the petty trials of life, those
who are most tried are most triumphant, do
we wish to live here without a trial? then
we would wish to die but half prepared for an
exaltation. We must taste the bitter to appre-
ciate the sweet. Our blessed Lord and Sav-
ior passed through the severest of trials with-
out a murmur, and we must not not expect a


salvation without striving for it, stars shine
brightest in the darkest night, difficulties are
things that show what we are, God has pitted
us against rough antagonists, for what end?
that we may prove Olympic conquerors; and
this cannot be without toil. You say you can-
not accept any religion that will not bear sift-
ing. Our religion will bear sifting, shaking,
turning inside out, there is not one principle
but that can stand the test. Investigate with
pure and honest motives and your harvest will
be rich.
	I believe you to be a woman of true integ-
rity, and will say, Dear Lady, please listen to
and obey the still small voice that whispers to
you from day to day, that the religion so called
"Mormonism" is true; and have a testimony
for yourself and gather to Zion where you can
hear the good word of God proclaimed from
time to time, that will comfort and strengthen
you, and enable you to bear all things patient-
ly. Those who are filled with the love of God
and his laws take no note of petty trials, but
pass them by and say all tend to purify and
sanctify. I bear this my testimony to you with
a loud voice although my body is frail; I have
been an invalid for five years, these are the
sentiments of my heart in, reading your corres-
pondence a great desire came over me to bear
my testimony to you, and hope it will be of
worth. I remain an ernest watcher of your
conversion to the truth.	THE UNKNOWN.


120	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISCELLANEOUS.

	The sword is but a hideous flash in the
darkness—right is an eternal ray.—Victor
Hugo.

	A good conscience is the palace of Christ;
the temple of the Holy Ghost; the paradise
delight; the standing Sabbath of the saints.—
Augustine.

	In Washington, D. C., Dec. 8, 1882, Mr.
Bingham, of Pennsylvania, chairman of the
committee on postoffices and postcards, report-
ed a bill in the House reducing letter postage
to two cents, and it was referred to the com-
mittee of the whole.

	Dr. Marie Zakrzewska, at the recent Wo-
man's Congess in Portland, spoke first of con-
vent life and its effect upon the health. Nuns
live the quietest and most retired life, all their
time engaged in occupations entirely feminine.
But they fade and grow sick and old sooner
than if they were more actively engaged. Di-
ametrically opposed to these are the fashiona-
ble women whose existence is one round of
gaiety and excitement. They fade and wear
away almost as soon as the religious devotees.
The women who are engaged in industrial oc-
cupations do not have a long lease of life and
health. The settled and unvarying hours of
labor, the close confinement, the noise and con-
fusion of the machinery to which they are con-
stantly subjected, the continued absorption of
interest in one direction—all combine to sap
their bloom and strength. In professional life,
Dr. Zakrzewska placed all women engaged in
any kind of active work which calls for the
exercise of all the faculties. She would have
it include not only physicians, ministers, law-
yers, and all who are usually classed as profes-
sionals, but also nurses, housekeepers, book-
keepers, all who have a definite occupation re-
quiring knowledge and skill and calling into
play more than one set of faculties. These, she
said,are the healthiest women. They stay young
and fresh longer than any other class, and as
they grow old are better preserved, both men-
tally and physically. The health of women
generally is much better now than in former
days, but there is still much that needs to be
remedied,—Ex.

[Column 2]
	O flattery, how potent is thy sway; how wide
the bounds of thy pleasing jurisdiction !—Cer-
vantes.

	Books, are the true levellers. They give to
all who faithfully use them the society, the
spiritual presence of the greatest and best of
our race.—Channing.

	A Boston paper is in "favor of women
voting if they want to." A Western paper
"would like to see the man who would make
them vote if they did'nt want to."

	Helen M. Gougar, editor of Our Herald, has
sued Harry Mandler, chief of police, and Chas.
Pook, for libel, and claims damages in $10,000.
This is a straightforward and eminently proper
course to be taken by an injured party.

	It is only a step from the sublime to the ri-
diculous. We read that "Madam Adelina
Patti was invested with the Order of Kapiola-
ni, recently, by the Chamberlain of King
Kalakaua. The order is a star on a red and
white striped ribbon, and was accompanied by
a letter on parchment from His Majesty."
What an honor.

	The rights of woman are obtaining recogni-
tion in Norway. The parliament has just
passed a law, which the King has signed, giv-
ing women the privilege of attending the uni-
versities and applying for degrees in all the
arts and sciences; but the right to hold office
in the service of the state and of participating
in the competitive examinations for such posi-
tions is not yet accorded them.

	A meeting of the executive committee of the
fair for aged and friendless women was held
recently at the house of the president, Mrs. Dr.
Carelton, who presided. Accounts were ren-
dered in from the various tables and other
connections of the fair, sufficient to make it
evident that the net receipts will exceed $2,-
000. A vote of thanks to the president was
enthusiastically passed.

	MADAME SARAH BERNHARDT'S engagement
for South America, the preliminary details of
which the Figaro was the first to announce two
months ago, is, I understand, not yet quite a
fait accompli. Certain details have yet to be
settled. Still the contract, onerous as it is, is
more workable than the first proposition by
which Madame Bernhardt wished to be paid
£300 a night even while she was traveling
from place to place. The new contract is, it is
understood, for £33,000 for fifty performances,
the services of M. Damala being included. This
is at rate of £660 a night, certainly a larger
sum than has ever before been paid to any
dramatic artist. Should Madame Bernhardt
go to South America, she will be absent from
April to September, and will compensate Mr.
Mayer for the loss of his London season at the
Gaiety.—Ex.

	An old Quaker lady of Nantucket, in a
private letter to Dr. Sarah J. McNutt, of New
York, gives a number of curious items from
the genealogy of the island. One of these we
are permitted to quote: "Rachel Bunker, wi-
dow of Dan (?) Bunker, and previously widow
of Barnabas Coleman, and daughter of Sylva-
nus and Abiel Hussey, died 11th mo., 9th,
1796, after an illness of 48 hours; aged 80
years, 6 mo., 23 days. During her time she
discovered much Christian fortitude and resig-
nation, and closed a life of usefulness with
calmness and serenity. She has been for 33
years eminent and successful in her profession,
having in that time assisted at the birth of
2,992 children (30 pairs of twins). She had 12
children, 113 grandchildren and 94 great-
grandchildren." We commend this case to the
attention of those who think professional life
incompatible with maternity.—Ex.

[Column 3]
	The Utah Commission, in a report to the
Secretary of the Interior, recommends that the
women of Utah be deprived of the ballot as a
means of suppressing polygamy. The most in-
telligent women of the civilized world will re-
commend that the present commission to Utah
be supplanted by men of common sense and
ordinary honesty.—Denver Queen Bee.


﻿KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH.
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75,77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1883.	No. 16


HELEN AND VIRGINIA. 

My friend, when once you asked of me
My reason for the truth I bear,
I answered briefly, for my gift
Is not in language as with men
Accustomed through their lives to share
Conflicts in pulpit or by pen. 

And so unsatisfied, I turn
To answer further one who seems
Inclined impartially to hear
The weaker side, and to receive
Such truth therein she may discern
As by our Church taught and believed.

It has been argued, theories,
However plausible to view,
Fail when brought into daily life,
And our's requirements and restraints
Are, while its precepts we pursue,
Beyond the strength of even Saints.

And that 'tis better far to keep
The "golden rule" on every hand,
Leaving the rest to our dear Lord,
Avoiding thus all cause of strife,
Attaining so through all our land
An onward march of peaceful life.

For us who know we have been called
To rise and work, not sit and wait,
Such well meant counsel does not fit
Our cause and time on this world's stage;
The field is wide, the hour is late,
And none must loiter who engage.

For in the kingdom there's a place,
A name and work for every one,
According to the talent lent
By the great Master over all,
Who notes the humblest service done
In answer to His holy call.

So if I answer you by way
Of narrative culled from the lives
Of those whom I have known for years,
Accept the picture, you will see
Of "Mormon" maidens, mothers, wives,
In proof of what we claim to be.

Not seed of promise, bud or bloom,
Taken with hopes and anxious fears,
Lest it prove thorned and barren tree,
And life's long labor spent in vain;
This is the fruit, after long years,
The fruit we've wrought in faith to gain.

Not that we lacked the "corner stone,"
Whereby to build, or rule to guide;
Each spirit knew by inward sight
The system's truth, its course and goal;
And gathered close or scattered wide.
Labored as one harmonious whole.

If in this garden you should find
Fruit all unworthy of its name,
Remember, e'en in Eden grew
A thing of evil, bringing sin,
Where all was pure; nor choose to blame
All, for the few tares found therein.

This is our work: to root from earth
Evils that have for ages spread;
And not by words alone, by works
That shall be felt the whole world through,
Till vanquished sin with bending head
Yields unto Truth the honor due.

And who will do this mighty work?
Not men of war in war's array,
But gentler ones who armor bear
Against all selfishness of heart;
Of these I weave my rhyme to-day—
Women who bear an honored part.

				AUGUSTA JOYCE C[-]OC[-]ERON.


[Column 1]
﻿DESULTORY MEMORIES.

	Every reflective person has times of medita-
tion. These may occur from some event that
transpires, or peculiar frame of mind in part
unaccountable, or from certain surroundings.
Floods of remembrances rush in as it were un-
bidden, and burst asunder the barriers time
has thrown up between us and the scenes of
earlier life; all at once rivers of thought flow
over the soul and almost bury the present for
the time being, so absorbing, is the emotion,
carrying us back to other days. Vividly the
galleries in memory's hall stand out in bold re-
lief, and we recognise here and there the
familiar faces and forms of those we loved,
and recall the associations connected with them
which had been almost forgotten, in the whirl-
pool of busy everyday life, that swallows up
so completely our thoughts and energies, while
actively engaged in the occpations that bring
us in close contact with the people among whom
we live. It is right to a certain extent to be
thus engaged in the present, and in looking
forward to the future; and yet it is well to
pause now and then in retrospective reverie
for the mind needs rest and recreation.
	The present demands attention, the future
is calling for action. These are facts with
which we are all acquainted, but to revel occa-
sionally in the realms of the past, is oft-times
like sweet music heard in dreams, that thrills
the senses when we awaken, and imparts pleas-
urable sensations, that word scan never express.
There is a pathos in memory hallowed and
sanctified, that is always elevating; and to be
able to call up from within, pictures
taken from incidents that actually transpired,
is better than to create air castles for the fu-
ture, that are not possible of fulfillment. If
you ask me why? I answer because it cultivates
the heart. Only those who are capable of in-
tense affection, the highest enjoyment, or the
keenest suffering, can fully appreciate what it
is to traverse memory's halls and search out
the beauty of that which has departed.
	To cultivate the graces of human life and
bring into exercise the finest faculties we pos-
sess, is to breathe a higher atmosphere, which
will develop the broadest phase of character,
that will search out the truth and the light,
and find a mantle of charity to cover the weak-
nesses of those less favored with conditions to
promote advancement. It is from women more
especially that this refinement of culture is ex-
pected. Her gentleness, her amiability, her
intuition are all aids and helps in softening,
subduing and polishing the manners, the cus-
toms and the hearts of the masses of the peo-
ple in the world we inhabit.
	No festival or entertainment is ever perfect
without woman's help; it is her prerogative to
embellish, adorn and beautify, and in all the
pictures memory portrays, she is ever a promi-
nent feature. The mother, the sister, the
friend, the one who could enter into all the
griefs of our childhood, was a woman. Yet
she is not perfect in and of herself, but associa-
ted with man, the two forming one perfect
whole, how complete do wo find the arrange-
ment of the divine Creator.
	The departure of the old year and the usher-
ing in of the new, is apt to awaken some of
those tender phases of feeling that are spoken
of as sentimentality, often in a careless manner;
but there is always a lesson in these recur-
rences, and there are those who mark such

[Column 2]
days as epochs in their lives. It matters not
what calls forth tenderness, it is always a bless-
ing. To be indifferent and callous to all things,
is to mar instead of make character; not that
we should always be carried away by our
excess of sysmpathy, or deceive ourselves with
superabundance of fine feeling without judg-
ment, or principle; but to be kind, gentle, ten-
der and considerate, and educate the heart and
affections epually with the head and hands.
	It is well to reason and to be practical, it is
commendable to dig deep for scientific know-
ledge, but there must be a balance of spiritual
force and human affection or we should have a
race of sages and savantes,without that love and
reverence that purifies and sanctifies joys and
sorrows, and draws mankind closer together in
bonds of universal brotherhood. Then let us
keep up the old-time customs that encourage
coming together and exchanging courtesies and
kindnesses, that our children may look back to
the holidays and annual festivities with as
much pleasure and satisfaction, as we do now
to the good old times when we were young and
all things seemed gilded with brightest hopes
in rainbow hues. How fondly we recall child-
hood's memories; the old homestead, the mea-
dows and groves, the singing birds, the swal-
low's twitter, the lark's high note, the mourn-
ful whippoorwill; the speckled trout in the
little brook near the old home, that sailed
along the babbling water. Was anything ever
so tasty as these little fish? the berries with
which our fingers were often stained, and the
autumn nuts, gathered in the dear old woods
and stowed away in the attics and garrets, to
be brought out in the winter evenings when
the work was all put aside and we ate apples,
cracked nuts, and, sometimes, though perhaps
we ought not to tell it, the old folks drank sweet
cider. Can we ever forget these creature com-
forts? No! Neither should we, they help
make up the sum of human happiness, and we
are better, if not wiser, for such pastimes and
enjoyments around the fireside with those, who
love us and can appreciate our feelings. To
eat together cements friendship—and the cus-
tom of inviting our friends to partake our
hospitality in the good old-fashioned way,
without too much style and ceremony, should
not be cast aside for new-fangled notions of
formal calls and fashionable dinner parties.
								AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I have taken much interest in questions
asked by Mrs. Scott, and she seems to me a
dear friend, although I have never seen her
face or heard her voice. I see from her letters
that her mind has been exercised in many
instances the same as my own was once.
I have been waiting to learn what the sisters
who answer would say to her, for they some-
times express my feelings better than I can do
myself. She asks what the Commissioners did?
Well, I consider they did well. They did what
the Lord permitted, and as his hand is over all
his works, we have nothing to fear, but trust
implicitly in Him. Those men and women that
were not allowed to vote because they had ac-
cepted the doctrine of plural marriage, know,
that they are excused because of having ac-
cepted a higher law. Yet we had four thous-
and votes more than the previous year. They
were more honorable than the Governor, be-


cause they gave the certificate to the person
who had the largest number of votes. Was
not this honorable? Should we not praise the
bridge which carries us safe over? They would
have done more had they known that this was
the work of God our Father. They shall have
my prayers that they may at some future day
know this to be a fact. I fancy I see Mrs.
Scott and her family, sitting around the table
seeking intelligence; one of them reading the
problem of life. How important, because this
is a duty we owe to ourselves and our Maker.
I wish Mrs. Scott could read Mr. Charles W.
Penrose's remarks upon this subject. I thought
of her last evening while listening to the re-
marks of Prof. T. B. Lewis, the able Superin-
tendent of all the schools in this county. He
was speaking of the importance of informing
our minds upon subjects pertaining to this
earth, because the Creator of heaven and earth
was the Father of all our spirits. He thought
a son was not dutiful if he neglected to make
himself acquainted with the works of his
father. Yet said, our education would not pro-
cure salvation, but our characters would. He
related a conversation with the brother of a
young man who had been on a mission, who said
his brother when in England, wrote very en-
thusiastic letters, full of light and intelligence,
but since he returned home, became darkened
in his mind and "now has no religion in him."
To illustrate this, Prof. Lewis likened it to a
man who went up stream to visit a person who
lived five miles at the head of the stream.
Said the man rowed the boat until he came
just near the house, when he became tired and
threw down his oars, saying, "I am so near I
will rest, I shall soon be there." But the cur-
rent took him back even beyond the starting
point. He then showed that application was
necessary to success. He also compared it to
the study of music. What great attainments
are made by application to that study? To
prepare for a concert, how often it is necessary
to practice in order to become proficient.
Argueing that those who had recieved the gift
of the good Spirit, had obtained it by seeking
diligently and applying their whole soul to the
rules that our Savior has given us to live by.
When we do this, great are the results. Yes,
the Scripture says, they who keep those laws
as he the Savior kept them, shall be heirs and
joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Not only so,
but possess a joy and peace the world can
neither give or take from them. Those who
adhere to the principles he taught, have the light
which St. John speaks of as being the true
light, which lighteth every man who cometh
into the world. With this light, how clear, how
plainly we can see and comprehend all that we
touch and handle. We will not fail to be suc-
cessful, for we are constantly improving. The
Savior said it would be like a well of water
springing up into everlasting life. This is our
experience. If Mrs. Scott will try it in the
sincerity of her heart, her experience will be
the same. The Savior was called faithful and
true. If we attain to perfection, we must be
like Him.			M. E. KIMBALL.


122	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUR TRIALS.

	The Lord says He will have a tried people,
and if it is his desire, and he permits us to be
tried, it proves it is for our good. We are to
be tried to see if we are able to stand the temp-
tations of the evil one; our Savior was temp-
ted, but he said, "get thee behind me, Satan,"
and if we are in the line of our duty, we also
will have power given us to rebuke the evil
one in the name of Jesus, that name which,
when uttered, will cause, as the poet exclaims,
"the devils to fear and flee away." But as we
must he tried in order to be God's children we
must pass through perhaps bodily affliction,
and how many of us under such circumstances

[Column 2]
have felt to exclaim, "It has been good for me
to be afflicted;" then is the time we more es-
pecially are free from the cares of life, and
although our bodies perhaps are suffering great
pain and weakness, our minds are strong, our
spirits buoyant, and we hold sweet communion
with our Father, his spirit whispers comfort
and peace, and fills our hearts with joy unutter-
able, and full of glory, so that we have cause
for gratitude, and praise God that we have
been afflicted; we realize that some of the dross
has been consumed and we are enabled to go
on our way rejoicing. But some persons will
say, I am so tried, I cannot, and will sometimes
go so far as to say they will not bear it. Stop,
my dear sisters, before you utter these words,
and reflect for one moment where these thoughts
come from, and from what source they spring.
	We are told the heart is deceitful, and des-
perately wicked, and so long as we feel in that
state of mind, we dare venture to say there is
something of that kind burning within. What
is it you cannot bear? May be it is the very
thing the Lord intends to purify and bless you
with, perhaps it may be the principle of plural
marriage, which, when practised in purity and
righteousness, will ennoble woman in this life,
and eventually exalt her in the Celestial King-
dom of our Father and God.
	Shall we, as women of Zion, we who have
embraced the everlasting Gospel, and have
tested of the good things of the kingdom,
perhaps enjoyed some of the gifts therein, shall
we lift our puny arm against the Almighty,
or any of the principles which have been re-
vealed! nay verily! Let us not be guilty of
such an act, but let us rather rejoice to have
husbands worthy of more than one wife, and if
we will do so, our Father in heaven will be well
pleased with us, and we will have more joy
than our hearts had ever conceived of.
	Again, some who have come to Zion have
left good homes and every worldly comfort.
What induced them to do so? was it for the
Gospel's sake, or had they any other motive in
view? If the former, they will be satisfied
when they arrive here. They may be tried in
many, various ways, but they are blest, and
their way is opened. On the contrary, if we
come with other motives than to serve God,
keep his commandments, and help build up
Zion, we shall get discouraged and dissatisfied,
and say things are not what they were repre-
sented to be, then commence to be dissatisfied
with everything, and everybody, and especially
with those who preside over the Church, which,
by the bye, is the first step to apostacy; then
our minds become dark, and eventually such
persons will leave the Church. Such are they
who cannot stand the trials, and are neces-
sarily not of those whom the Lord will have;
and inasmuch as they are not willing to be sub-
ject to his laws, will have to be subject to him
whom they list to obey, who will verily prove
to be a hard master and give poor pay. Then
in consideration of these things, let us endeavor
each day, to "prove all things, and hold fast
that which is good," and patiently endure all
the Lord sees fit we should pass through. Let
us pray for strength to enable us to do God's
righteous will, and all his laws obey; Seek
him with all our might, we then will know,
and prove what is true. We must our trials all
pass through to gain celestial glory, and we
will then realize 'twas good we had "Our
Trials."
	LEHI, 1883.				E. R, C.


﻿PRIMARY FAIR.

	A Primary Fair was held in Snowflake, Dec.
20th, 1882, under the auspices of the President,
Sister Emma S. Smith and Counselors, and
the President of the Relief Society, Sister M.
J. West.
	The fair was opened at 10 a. m. by


singing and prayer. There was a general
attendance of the people from Snowflake
and Taylor. The children showed con-
siderable energy and skill in preparing
articles for the occasion. One little boy
eight years old, made and painted a garden
rake, a little boy, nine, made a harrow, a little
girl, four, made a quilt block, a little girl, five,
a sweetcake, a little boy, seven, an ox yoke, a
little girl, nine, a basket covered with beads,
a little boy, eleven, made and painted an
armed rocking chair, he also made the paint
brush that he used; a little girl, five, covered a
cross with shells, and made a wreath of flowers,
a little boy, eleven, made a spring wagon with
cover and spring seat, a girl, eleven, braided
straw for a hat, a girl, fourteen, cut and made
her father a coat; nine pairs of stockings were
made by girls from eight to twelve years old.
	The Primary girls also pieced blocks for
both sides of a quilt, set it together, carded the
wool, and quilted most of it. They had bread
and a variety of cakes and pies; ornaments of
cardboard, wool flowers, cushions, crochet work
and embroidery, besides many other articles
that were very creditable. The boys also had
many articles very creditable,
	The afternoon was spent in recitations from
cards of our faith, speaking pieces and singing
songs. Closed by complimentary speeches
from President Jesse N. Smith and Bishop
Hunt.
			ELLEN J. LARSON, Secretary.


﻿THE GRANDEUR OF WOMAN.

	When you want to get the grandest idea of
a queen, you do not think of Catherine of
Russia, or of Anne of England, or of Marie
Theresa of Germany; but when you want to
get your grandest idea of a queen, you think
of the plain woman who sat opposite your
father at the table, or walked with him arm-in-
arm down life's pathway; sometimes to the
thanksgiving banquet, sometimes to the grave,
but always together, soothing your petty griefs,
correcting your childish waywardness, joining
in your infantile sports, listening to your even-
ing prayers, toiling for you at needle or at the
spinning wheel, and on cold nights, wrapping
you up snug and warm. And then, at last, on
that day when she lay in the back room dying,
and you saw her take those thin hands, with
which she had toiled for you so long, and put
them together in a dying prayer that commend-
ed you to the God whom she had taught you to
trust—oh she was the queen! The chariots of
God went down to fetch her; and as she went
in, all heaven rose up. You cannot think of
her now without a rush of tenderness that stirs
the deep foundation of your soul, and you feel
as much a child again as when you cried on
her lap; and if you could bring her back again
to speak just once more your name as tenderly
as she used to speak it, you would be willing to
throw yourself on the ground and kiss the sod
that covers her, crying: "Mother! mother!"
Ah, she was the queen! To make one such
woman as I have described, how many thous-
ands would you want of those people who go
in the round of fashion and dissipation, dis-
tressing their body until in their monstrosities
they seem to outdo the dromedary and hippo-
potamus; going as far toward disgraceful ap-
parel as they dare go, so as not to be arrested
by the police, their behavior a sorrow to the
good and a caricature to the vicious, and an
insult to that God who made them women and
not gorgons; and tramping on down through a
frivolous, dissipated life to temporal and
eternal damnation.—Frank Leslie's Sunday
Magazine.


"One soweth and another reapeth," is a ver-
ity that applies to evil as well as good.—
George Eliot.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 123


A SERMON IN RHYME.

SELECTED.

If you have a friend worth loving,
	Love him. Yes, and let him know
That you love him, ere life’s evening
	Tinge his brow with sunset glow.
Why should good words ne'er be said 
Of a friend—till he is dead.

If you hear a song that thrills you,
	Sung by any child of song,
Praise it. Do not let the singer
	Wait deserved praises long.
Why should one who thrills your heart
Lack the joy you may impart?

If you hear a prayer that moves you
	By its humble, pleading tone,
[---] Do not let the seeker
	Bow before his God alone.
Why should not your brother share
The strength of "two or three" in prayer?

If you see the hot tears falling
From a sorrowing brother's eyes,
Share them. And, by sharing,
Own your kindship with the skies.
Why should any one be glad
When a brother's heart is sad?

If a silvery laugh is rippling
Through the sunshine on his face,
Share it. 'Tis te wise man's saying--
For both grief and joy a place.
There's health and goodness in the mirth
In which an honest laugh has birth.

If your work is made more easy
By a friendly helping hand,
Say so. Speak out brave and truly,
Ere the darkness veil the land. 
Should a brother workman dear
Falter for a word of cheer.

Scatter thus your seeds of kindness 
All enriching as you go;
Leave them. Trust the Harvest Giver,
He will make each seed to grow;
So until its happy end,
Your life shall never lack a friend.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

	It is a singular fact, and one that any
thoughtful person cannot avoid noticing, that
many of the men and women who first em-
braced the Gospel in this dispensation, were the
direct descendants of those who fled from per-
secution in the old world, to find an asylum in
the new, where they could worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their own consciences.
And how similar has been the history of this
people to that of the Pilgrim fathers and
mothers. Among this number is the lady who
forms the subject of this sketch. Her gene-
ological record on the father's side (Huntington
was her family name), has been traced to
Simon Huntington, the Puritan immigrant
who sailed from England in 1833, but died at
sea, leaving a widow,Margaret Huntington and
cthree sons. Of Mrs. Kimball's illustrious and
estors was Samuel Huntington, one of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence,
Governor of Connecticut, and President of
the Continental Congress. Wm. Hunting-
ton, grandfather of Mrs. Kimball, and
nephew of Samuel Huntington, was born
in Tolland, Connecticut, and served in the
army through the Revolutionary war. He
moved to New Hampshire in 1784, and
there Mrs. Kimball's father, Wm. Hunt-
ington, was born; he also served in the war
with Great Britain in 1812. In 1804, the
Huntington's removed to Watertown, New
York, and there Presendia Lathrop was born,
also her sister Zina D., whose biography we
published last year in the EXPONENT. These

[Column 2]
two women are descended from a race of patri-
ots, and it is not strange that a generous share
of heroism has descended to them, and that it
very strongly marks the character of the fami-
ly. The Huntington families are intermarried
with the Lathrops, from whom Presendia was
named, and this family was also among
the early New England settlers, one of
whom was the Reverend Samuel Lathrop,
who, for non-conformity, being a preacher
in the First Congregational Church in
London, was imprisoned for two years, and
on being released in 1634, came to America
and was the first minister of Scituate,
Massachusetts.
	Mrs. Kimball's mother was Zina Baker
whose father was one of the first physicians in
New Hampshire, and whose mother descended
from the Dymock's of Sir Edward Dymock,
Queen Elizabeth's champion. Presendia was
the fourth child of her parents, and was born
in Watertown, Jefferson Co., N. Y., September
10, 1810. Mrs. Kimball is said to be the exact
counterpart of the Eliza Huntington whose
likeness is in the book, the record of the Hunt-
ington's, as a type of the race. Sister Presendia
is a woman to see once is to remember always.
She reminds one of the dames of the olden
times, large, tall, grand and majestic in figure,
dignified in manner, yet withal, so womanly
and sympathetic that she seems the embodi-
ment of the motherly element to a degree that
would embrace all who come under her influ-
ence. Truly she may, in every sense of the
word, be termed a mother in Israel in very
deed. Her life has been exceptionally event-
ful. It is impossible to give in a brief sketch
like this even a tithe of her wonderful experi-
ences, but a few items will convey to the reader
something of the life of this good woman, so
rich in faith, so full of integrity to the Gospel,
and will perhaps be beneficial to others, and show
of what material have been the women who
have been foremost in helping to establish the
principles that have called forth so much com-
ment throughout the civilized world. It takes
women of more than ordinary stamina to en-
dure all the stigma, reproach and calumny
that is sure to follow the introduction of any
new ideas, even though they may be for the
progression and advancement of the human
race here and hereafter. The father and
mother of Sister Presendia both became mem-
bers of the Church at a very early date, they
had been Presbyterians of the strictest kind.
	The Huntington's with their family, contrary
to the wishes of their relatives and friends,
shortly after embracing the Gospel as taught
by the Prophet Jeseph, removed to Kirtland,
Ohio, where the saints were gathering together
and assisted in building the Temple in that
place, which is still standing as a testimony to
all the faithful labors of the people of God,
in erecting Temples to the Most High in the
face of the bitterest persecutions. At the time
of the gathering to Missouri, Father and
Mother Hnntington went up to Jackson
County, and shared in the hardships and perils
of that eventful epoch in the history of the
Church. The hardships endured there by
these veterans are too dreadful to contemplate,
and eventually both of them laid down their
lives in consequence of the privations and per-
secutions to which they had been so cruelly
subjected. Faithful and true to the very last
hour of their lives, were these noble saints of
the Most High; descended from those who had
battled for freedom from oppression and nobly
earned the title of freemen for themselves and
their posterity; yet for the self-same reason,
their religious faith compelled them to pass
through the same series of trying ordeals, un-
til death came to their relief. Who shall an-
swer for the noble lives thus sacrificed? Is
there not an avenger of the innocent and suf-
fering of the Saints? Yet these things trans-

[Column 3]
pired under the broad spread folds of the flag
of liberty, freedom to all, religious liberty to
every creed and color. Consider too this was
not on account of the practice of plural mar-
riage, there could be no such excuse then, for
the principle had not yet been revealed.

To be Continued.


N. W. S. A., WASHINGTON, D. C.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
true to the principles they profess, have re-
solved to use their influence to defeat Cassidy's
Bill introduced into the Congress of the United
States, with the object of annulling the act of
the Utah Legislature of 1870, in passing the
bill granting suffrage to the women of this
Territory. At a preliminary meeting held in
the Riggs House Parlors, Washington, D. C.,
Saturday evening, Dec. 30, the following reso-
lution was adopted:
	"Resolved, That the bill introduced into the
House of Representatives by the Hon. G. W.
Cassidy, of Nevada, to deprive the women of
Utah of the ballot is a retrograde movement,
and aimed at the perpetual disfranchisement
of all women, notwithstanding his assertions
to the contrary, as women who are polygamists
cannot vote there now; and that we will
use whatever power we possess to defeat that
measure."
	Another resolution was adopted at the same
meeting in reference to the cruel and wicked
persecution of Mrs. Helen M, Gougar, editor
of "Our Herald," a woman's paper published
and very ably conducted by that estimable
lady, who on account of her bold and fearless
speaking and writing against wickedness and
crime has been most cruelly slandered. Mrs.
Gougar has brought suit for slander against
the men who so basely traduced her character.
The following is the resolution:
	"Resolved, That the Washington branch of the
National Woman's Suffrage Association extend
to Mrs. Helen M. Gougar their moral support
in her suit, now pending against calumny and
detraction, the weapons only of cowards; and
that we consider her cause the cause of all
women."
	We heartily endorse the sentiment expressed
in the resolution, and hope Mrs. Gougar may
come off triumphant in the suit now pending.
Mrs. G. says in her paper of Dec. 9:
	"The slanderer and his attorney have raked
around among our former servant girls and
sewing women; have searched hotel registers to
find our "character" but they have studiously
avoided calling in the hundreds of Christian
homes where we have been hospitably enter-
tained from time to time."
	With all the wicked and vile things that
have been circulated about the suffrage work-
ers, this is the first instance we have heard of
when suit has been brought, and the ladies who
believe in "equality of women before the law,"
will watch the proceedings of the court in this
matter with anxiety and intense interest. Mrs.
G. is a handsome woman, a fine figure, most
pleasing address, brilliant writer and a great
favorite on the platform. A woman to be
loved and respected.


On the whole, it is good, it is absolutely
needful, for one to be humbled and prostrated,
and thrown among the pots from time to time.
Life is a school; we are perverse scholars to
the last, and require the rod.—Thomas Carlyle.

	At the last meeting of the "Woman's Liter-
ary Club" of Indianapolis, an exceedingly
well-prepared paper upon the life and charac-
ter of Margaret Fuller was read by Mrs. May
Wright Sewall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $3.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 15, 1883.


[Column 1]

EDITOR'S CHAT.

	THE prejudice which set in so heavily against
Utah and the Mormons, about four years ago,
seems to be giving way a little. Perhaps it has
nearly spent its fury. A spirit of inquiry or
partly curiosity as well, has been incited through
the dreadful extravaganzas that Dame Rumor
has circulated to help overthrow "Mormonism."
There are many intelligent people asking ques-
tions by letters "of the Mormons" themselves,
concerning the practical workings of plura
marriage, its effect upon society, its domestic
embarassments, its physiological and hygeinic
value. Religion—some of these querists do not
care for, they have no faith in it as an abstract
idea, but the sanctity of marriage as a divine
right, belonging as much to woman as to man
to regulate, many believe and claim. It is a
question which is bound to excite special atten-
tion in the world of mankind ere many years
have elapsed—and one which women well know,
cannot be adjusted until the ballot is in their
own hands. But a truce to all this, it is a sub-
ject so complicated, that volumes might be
written upon it without elucidating all its points,
but at present, we have not time or space to
elaborate upon this matter. The anomalous
condition of women, under the peculiar circum-
stances with which this people are environed
round, when one takes into consideration the
Edmunds law in its full force upon men as well
as women, must of itself be an interesting study
to those looking on and disinterested. And it is
not a matter of astonishment after all, that the
question should come from various quarters,
"What will be the action of the Mormons to-
wards the Commissioners?" "How will the
Mormon people regard the Edmunds law?" and
a long list of similar interrogations.
	Notwithstanding the disfranchisement of all
men and women who were even suspected of
having been at any time, living in plural mar-
riage relations, the majority of votes for the can-
didate of the People's Party was very large; and
forsooth to correct this great mistake, which has
been made in allowing men and women to vote
for a candidate who was in every way worthy
the confidence of his constituents—it is found
absolutely necessary now to make another still
more desperate attempt to wrest the ballot from
the hands of the women of Utah. This time,
by urging Congress to annul the act of the Utah
Legislature of 1870, granting suffrage to women.
In doing this, men feel they are perfectly justi-
fied, as Congress has never conferred upon
woman, anywhere, the right to vote. But even
this should they accomplish their design, will
not give the Liberals the balance of power they 
desire, in order to control the public treasuries of
the Territory, and place the People's Party at
the mercy of these mercenary, plotting, schem-
ing federal officials and carpet-baggers. Even
could this fest be accomplished, there will still

[Column 2]
be men enough to outvote the Liberals; for
another year will give Utah more voters—
young men, who will have just attained their
majority, and each succeeding year will add new
recruits of these mountain boys to the list.
	It may not be so easy a matter after all to get
Congress to pass the Cassidy bill—for there are 
leading women in the nation, who feel this in-
volves a point of law, which may work disas-
trously against all women, should Congress thus
decide against women of Utah. It does seem
strange, after all that has been published con-
cerning the election, and the discrimination
against those who were even suspected of ever
having lived in the plural order of marriage,
that there should be an impression that these
plural wives were allowed to vote; making this
one of the pleas for the passage of the Cassidy
bill. The annuling of that act of the Utah
Legislature would bring upon Congress the in-
dignation of all suffrage workers in America and
across the water. Not that members of Congress
who favor it would fear or care, but it would be
a blow that would tell far and near.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. Zina D. H. Young has been invited to
attend the N. W. S. A. Convention to be held
in Lincoln Hall, Washington, D. C., the 23d,
24th and 25th of the present month.

	The Salt Lake Stake Conference was held in
the Assembly Hall, Jan. 6 and 7, and was very
numerously attended. Very impressive dis-
courses were delivered by Prest. John Taylor,
Counselor Joseph F. Smith, and the Presidency
of this Stake of Zion, and it was a time of spirit-
ual refreshing to the Saints.

	IT will be seen by Dr. Ferguson's advertise-
ment that she has removed to the Twelfth
Ward, where she has an office adjoining her
dwelling, and will be glad to receive those who
may be desirous of securing her services as a
physician or surgeon. She has a class in obstet-
rics now well advanced, and would be glad to
teach more in the much needed profession, or in
the art of nursing.

	WE are informed by letter from Mrs. Sarah
M. Dell, Beaver, Utah, that Mrs. Lucy Smith
Milliken, youngest sister of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and widow of Arthur Milliken, died on
the 9th of December last, her husband died
about eight months previous to her decease.
Lucy Smith, afterwards Milliken, was well-
known to the Saints in the early days of the
Church, and she was also greatly beloved for her
many excellent womanly qualities and graces of
character.

	THE Eighteenth Ward Chapel was dedicated
on Sunday evening, Jan. 14th. The services
were conducted by Elder Robert Patrick, First
Counselor to Bishop Orson F. Whitney, who is
absent upon a mission in Europe. President
John Taylor and President Joseph F. Smith
each addressed the assembly. Counselors D.
O. Calder and Joseph E. Taylor of the Presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion were also present.
President Joe. F. Smith offered the dedicatory
prayer. Elder H. G. Whitney had charge of the
singing. The benediction was pronounced by
President Joseph E. Taylor. The building was
crowded with people. The chapel is a credit to
the people of the ward; it is beautiful in design
and handsomely finished.

	THE entertainment given New Year's night
by the Primary Association of the Eleventh
Ward of this city, under the able management
of Mrs. Louie Felt, was a very creditable affair.
The singing by a hundred and twenty-five
children was well done, and evinced skill and

[Column 2]
perseverance on the part of those who trained
them for the occasion. The selection of songs,
recitations aad dialogues were choice and well
rendered, many of the little ones being quite
young. "The "Sleeping Beauty" was finely
presented, the children being well up in their
parts, and their costumes tasteful and pretty.
The entertainment cleared $41.00, which was
donated to the Deseret Hospital Fund, for the
benefit of that institution.

	ON Sunday evening, December 31, we were
agreeably surprised by receiving a call from Mr.
and Mrs. Henry Marion Howe, of Boston. We
regretted exceedingly that urgent business com-
pelled them to leave the city Monday morning,
so that there was very little opportunity for them
to ascertain facts from observation. Mr. Howe
is the son of the celebrated Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe, poet, lecturer and journalist, belongs to
the staff of editors of the Woman's Journal, pub-
lished in Boston. She is very popular as a
speaker, in America and Europe, and is an
ardent suffragist and strong supporter of the en-
franchisement of all women.

	ON the 21st of January, the venerable pioneer
lady, Eliza R. S. Smith, poetess of Zion, and
widow of the Prophet Joseph, will reach the
great age of seventy-nine years, with faculties
bright and active, physical health excellent, still
wielding her pen ably in defense of the truth,
visiting the sick, comforting the sorrowing, and
ministering in holy places: she has nobly earned
the title "Mother in Israel." Side by side with
Sister Eliza is another pioneer woman in the
glorious work, Sister Zina; for years these two
women have been closely associated, and their
names are linked together tenderly among the
Saints. Sister Zina D. H. Young will be sixty-
two years old on the 31st day of the present
month. Sister Eliza and Sister Zina, are house-
hold words in Utah, and long may they be asso-
ciated together and work for the elevation of
woman and the establishment of Christ's king-
dom upon the earth.

	ON Friday, Jan. 12, there was a special meet-
ing of the Relief Society of Mill Creek Ward
in the Meeting House, commencing at 10 a.m.
There was an excellent attendance of the peo-
ple in that vicinity, and several sisters from the
city, were present by invitation. Sisters Eliza
R. S. Smith, Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella
Horne, Helen Mar. Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball
and Maria W. Wilcox, also Sister Elizabeth
Howard from Big Cottonwood. At intermission,
a sumptuous repast was served in the vestry,
and the time was spent in social enjoyment.
There was an afternoon session at 2 p.m., which
gave ample time for the transaction of business
and for all who desired, to have an opportunity
of speaking. Addresses were made by each of
the ladies mentioned, also by several of the local
sisters, and a goodly time of refreshing was en-
joyed. Such meetings promote good feelings
and encourage those who labor in benevolent
work to persevere in well doing.

	THE Unity Club, recently organized in this
city for improvement and charitable purposes,
has given two evening entertainments in the
Twelfth Ward Assembly Rooms, each time to
crowded and appreciative audiences. The first
was given the evening of Jan.4, and was an un-
qualified success. The demand for its repetition
was so great that the Club finally decided to re-
produce it, with some few changes in the pro-
gramme. Those who figured on the boards in
the several parts, deserve praise for the credit-
able manner in which they acquitted themselves.
Miss Ada Dwyer, in her rendering of Lady
Macbeth in the sleep walking scene, surpassed
the expectations of her most ardent admirers, and
showed her[-]elf quite at home in the character.


Miss Adams as Isabel at the deathbed of her
boy, evinced thorough training and adaptability.
The singing of Mesdemoiselles Agnes Olsen,
Prissie Jennings and Louie Wells, was charm-
ing, and the piano accompaniments by Daynes,
as well as his opening piece, were, of course, per-
fect. Mesdames Wells and Thatcher delighted
the lovers of music with the fine execution of
choice pieces, and the tableaux gave the finish-
ing touch to the artistic programme. The best
among these was "Cornelia, the mother of the
Gracchi," which was beautifully represented; and
"Lady Jane Grey," which was also well taken;
"The Good Old days of Yore" was very character-
istic, and was well presented. The committee
of young ladies have shown good taste as well as
executive ability, and their success is indeed
well earned, for they worked earnestly and with
untiring energy, and they certainly deserve
great credit. Bishop H. B. Clawson, who is
perfectly at home in matters pertaining to the
stage, both on the platform and behind the
scenes, rendered the committee the most
efficient aid, and the benefit of his advice and
skill, helped much to make the affair not only a
success, but a pleasure to all who attended.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 125


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

BERN, Switzerland,
		Dec. 26, 1882.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	The Swiss and German mission yesterday
evening concluded a well attended and instruc-
tive conference, during which, among statistical
and financial reports from all parts of the mis-
sion respecting the branches, the work of preach-
ing the Gospel, the emigration of the Saints, the
Sunday schools, etc., a very creditable report
was given concerning the Women's Relief So-
ciety existing in the city of Bern. The sisters
had their meeting yesterday at 2 o'clock, the
hall being densely crowded with brethren and
sisters from various parts of Switzerland, and it
was really a most excellent gathering, the ladies
presiding, speaking, bearing powerful and im-
pressive testimonies, and conducting the whole
business of the meeting in a manner instructive
and edifying to all who enjoy the Spirit of God
and who are able to appreciate its presence, Ac-
cording to the report there read, it appears that
the society was organized by Prest. P. F. Goss,
on the 30th of June, 1882, with a president, two
counselors, a secretary, nine visiting teachers
and twenty-three members, a total member-
ship of thirty-six. Since the organization four-
teen meetings had been held, all visits in the
various circuits had been industriously and regu-
larly made, and, one may be sure, great good
had been done in the way of instructing and en-
couraging those who perhaps were in need or in
sorrow. It had been decided that the Sunday
School children give a Christmas entertainment,
and this took place Saturday evening, the 23d.
The matter of preparation was given into the
hands of the sisters, in connection with the
Sunday School officers, and they had nicely
decorated the room with evergreens, flowers,
wreaths, ribbons, and all the little attractions
which women alone know how to create, while
in one corner of the room was a Christmas tree,
brilliantly lighted. At the conclusion of the
exercises, suitable presents were distributed to
the youthful performers, the sisters' contribution
to this fund being to the value of 49.85 francs.
The many visitors to the conference have been
apportioned among the resident members of the
Church by the sisters of this society, and have
been provided with all that was necessary to
make them feel comfortable and at home—in a
word, much of the success of the conference is
due to the exertions of these sisters. It is


thought that the society is entitled to credit for
its labors, and ought to be recognized and re-
ported at home; therefore to the EXPONENT, as
the organ of such organizations in all the world,
the foregoing is respectfully submitted.
	The officers, as they now exist, are: Sister
Magdalena Rohrer, President; Sister Elizabeth
Hachen and Magdalena Rothlisberger, Counsel-
ors; and Sister Rosa Muller, Secretary. In be-
half of the latter, as she cannot write English,
I have prepared, by request of Prest. Goss, the
above items, which were selected from her
report.			Respectfully,
						JNO. Q. CANNON.


LECTURE ON TEMPERANCE.

	At Morgan City, on the evening of January
9th, Mr. William O. Clark, of California, de-
livered one of his pathetic lectures on temper-
ance, in this place to an attentive audience,
holding them spellbound, as it were, by his elo-
quent and touching address. After occupying
an hour and a half, the speaker asked all who
would make a resolve not to take any strong
drink for one year, to raise the right hand, when
all, or nearly all hands were raised. It being
a free lecture, a hearty vote of thanks was ten-
dered Mr. Clark for his interesting entertain-
ment of the evening. Doubtless much good
will be the result of his sincere labors.
								C. A. N.


[Column 1]
MISSIONARY LETTER.

VALLEY VIEW, Smythe Co.,
		Virginia, Jan. 2, 1883.

DEAR SISTER HELEN:

	According to promise, I will endeavor to give
you a short history of my travels and experi-
ence since I left home. I had quite a lonesome
journey, traveling all the way alone, 2,400
miles. I arrived in Chattanooga about 11 p.m.,
and I assure you I felt like one of the lost sheep,
but I managed to find a hotel. The next morn-
ing, I started out to find some one that I knew,
but it was similar to hunting for a needle in a
hay stack, but, nevertheless, I found the needle
in the shape of Bro. A. H. Snow, son of
Apostle Lorenzo Snow. I don't know when I
ever was as pleased to see any one aaJ was him;
he was there attending to Elder John Morgan's
business. We started out the next merning to
see the sights; we went to the top of Cameron
Hill on the west side of the city, from this
point you can get a view of the whole country
around. The city water works were beneath us,
the water is forced from the Tennessee River up
to the top of this hill, by a steam pump, into a
reservoir, and then is carried throughout the
city in mains. East of the city is Missionary
Ridge, where one of the bloodiest battles of the
late war was fought, also, to the south is Look-
out Mountain, where another great battle was
fought; the timber was literally cut to pieces on
this mountain; it is a very high point, there is at
present on the top, a hotel for the accomodotion
of visitors. We next visited the National Ceme-
tery, east of the city; this is a beautiful place;
there are 14,000 soldiers buried there; it is
sodded down to lawn grass all over; the graves
are laid out in sections in circles, so many graves
to a section, the graves of those that are un-
known surrounded by those that are known; each
grave being surmounted with a marble slab.
The entrance to these grounds is through an iron
gate, the gate being hung to two large stone
pillars, about 16 feet high, surmounted by a
beautiful HEAD PIECE, inscribed with the date
of its erection. There is also an acadamized
road leading to this city. It is quite a large city

[Column 2]
some 30,000 inhabitants, but there are about two-
thirds of them negroes. So much for Chat-
tanooga. I stopped at that place four days,
when Brother Morgan arrived from Mississippi;
he then set me apart to travel in Virginia, I left
on the night of the 8th of November for my
destination. I was here alone for a month,
before my traveling companion came, he had
been to Pennsylvania visiting his folks, I think
you and Uncle Horace are acquainted with him,
Brother Howard Coray, he often speaks of you;
we were together some time when another Elder,
Brother Soule came, so I am to travel with him,
leaving Brother Coray to move around as he sees
fit, being too old to do much walking this winter.
It is a very hard country to travel in, it being
very mountainous. I have done considerable
traveling and fireside talk since I have been
here. I have spoken in public twice; my desire
is to fill a good and honorable mission, and I
feel to put my trust in God, knowing that he is
able to accomplish all things, and I know if a
man is honorable and contrite in his spirit, he
will be able to overcome all obstacles, and that
friends will be raised up to him on the right and
on the left. I have verified this wherever I
have met friends. Brother Coray and I have
been able to get into society where no other
Elder had been; among men that were most
bitter in their prejudices six months ago. They
are very wealthy people, and they have given
us standing invitations to stop with them, I ap-
preciate this, and acknowledge the hand of God
in it. Brother Smith, in bleasing me, told me
that I should follow in the footsteps of my father,
and that I should never lack for friends, and
should be able to accomplish a good mission, pro-
viding I would keep the word of wisdom, and
keep unspotted from the world, which counsel I
have faith enough to follow with the help of my
Heavenly Father. Well, dear sister, I will
close for the present, with love to your family,
Uncle Horace and Aunt Mary and family, not
forgetting yourself.
		From your affectionate Brother,
					NEWEL W. KIMBALL.

	P. S.—I have seen a notice in the EXPONENT
sent me by Aunt Em, of a pamphlet written by
you, which I would like to have if you would
send it to me. Give me your faith and prayers.
God bless you all, is the prayer of your brother,
								N. W. K.


MILLENNIAL STAR.

	THE Christmas number of "The Latter-day
Saints Millennial Star" closed the forty-fourth
volume of that valuable journal. It is the old-
est paper except one published in Liverpool.
This paper is edited and published at the present
time by Apostle John Henry Smith, now Presi-
dent of the European mission, though the
practical work of preparing it for the press, is in
the hands of Elder O. F. Whitney, and his
poetical ability is apparent even in his editorials.
He closes a most interesting editorial on Christ-
mas in this poetic strain:
	"Let smiles wrethe every face with gladness.
Let happiness, like a well, rise up from every
honest heart, and rippling laughter, like a sunny
stream, flow merrily forth from the lip that
speaks no evil. Let pleasure wait on purity,
and festivity go hand in hand with temperance.
Let faith, hope and charity—the white-winged
graces of the Christian gospel—encircle each
festive board, and hover over every family
hearth. Let kindness and brotherly love be
mutual mediator and monarch over all. Let
poverty praise generous wealth, and generous
wealth remember poverty. Let the song of the
jubilant be tuned by chastity and the laughter
of innocence be tempered by the inward prayer


of thanksgiving. And while Joy and gladness
abound, and thanksgiving and melody resound
from every heart and home, let every tongue
tacitly utter and every soul silently respond,"
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth,
peace, good will toward men!"
	The value of this paper to the Saints In
Europe, cannot be estimated, and as a record of
the British mission, it has been very essential
indeed. May it continue to increase in popu-
larity and prosperity, until all the honest in
heart from all nations are gathered under the
Gospel banner, and there will be no more need
of the Elders In foreign fields of labor.


126	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died, in Hooper City, Weber County, Utah, November
19, 1882, Adelaide Johnson, daughter of Theodore and
Sarah P. Cook Johnson.
Deceased was born in Salt Lake City, March 30, 1866,
and was in her 17th year at the time of her demise. She
was a faithful member of the Y. L. M. I.A., and loved
and respected by all who knew her. She leaves a de-
voted mother and brother, with many relatives and dear
friends, to mourn her loss. She was a kind and obedi-
ent daughter, and her last words were to comfort her
mother.
	Hooper.			JESSIE MANNING,
								Sec. Y. L. M. I. A.

Addie now is sweetly sleeping;
	In the tomb she's laid to rest,
But her spirit watch is keeping,
	For she dwells among the blest.

Though her body now is resting
	Free from weary pain and care,
She rejoices in bright mansions
	With the just and righteous there.

Then cheer up and cease your weeping,
	She has reached that "happy shore,"
Where no grief or sickness enters,
	And there's rest forevermore.

Hooper,							JULIA BAKER.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the seventeenth Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Societies of Utah Co.,
held in Provo City, December, 1882.
	Present on the stand. President Margaret
T. Smoot, Counselor M. A. Cluff, Secretary,
etc., visitors from Salt Lake City—Sisters
M. I Horne and E. Howard; a few brethren
of the Priesthood also present. Meeting
opened by singing, prayer and singing.
Minutes of former conference read and ap-
proved.
	President M. I. Smoot said our prayers have
been answered, and we are permitted to meet
again beneath this consecrated roof, while
many who have been wont to meet with us
have been called away to another state of ex-
istence. We have sisters with us to-day from
Salt Lake City, and we will dispatch our busi-
ness so as to hear from them, and give way this
afternoon for the funeral of Mother Needham,
who has gone from our midst; a faithful Lat-
ter-day Saint, and a faithful worker in the
Relief Society. I feel to ask the Lord to bless
and pour out his Spirit upon us all.
	Sister Horne said, the time has come that our
prophets have foretold that would try men's
souls. The Lord is working with the nations
and the adversary is stirring them up to destroy
us. I would say to my sisters, live your re-
ligion, draw nigh unto your God, and He will
help us, let us use the weapon of prayer, let us
fast and pray and hold sweet communion with
the Lord. One of our sisters has been sent to
the penitentiary because she would not testify
against herself and husband. I honor her for
it; our enemies are trying to overthrow us,

[Column 2]
but I know that God rules and will fight our
battles for us if we are faithful and trust Him.
The teachers of the Relief Societies should
pray for the Spirit of God, and never go out
without askiug for his help, that they may en-
courage those they visit. I pray that we may
not be weary in well doing, but gain a seat in
the Celestial Kingdom.
	Sister Howard said, the Lord requires im-
plicit obedience, and if we live our religion, we
will be right. We know what we shall have to
pass through; let us so live that we shall be able
to stand the tests; we must be more on an equal-
ity. Let us not spend so much in dress and
trimmings; let us improve our minds. We
want to come up in the morning of the resur-
rection; we do not want our bodies to lay for
years in the grouud. Let us love one another
till our hearts are full of love.
	Sister Smoot said, we all appreciate Sister
Anna Gallifant for her integrity and courage,
and feel to give her a vote of thanks, which
was responded to unanimously.
	Brother H. H. Cluff said: Sisters, this is
my first meeting with you in conference since
my return from the Sandwich Islands. I have
been pleased at what I have heard in relation
to the teachers of the Relief Societies visiting
in their districts; they can accomplish a great
deal of good in that way, more so than those
that preside over them; they can talk plainer
to the sisters than in the public meetings. The
sisters that live humbly before the Lord, can-
not help doing good, but let not your right
hand know what your left hand doeth.
	Sister Smoot said, we will adjourn and meet
together again this evening. Singing. Bene-
diction.

	Evening Session.—Conference convened at
half-past six; after singing and prayer, the
time was occupied by Sisters Horne and How-
ard instructing the sisters on a variety of sub-
jects all pertaining to our eternal welfaire; ex-
horted the mothers to train their children early
in all good works, teach them to pray, to be
upright and honest, teach them faith in God,
and also to remember the Sabbath day to keep
it holy. Said, we want to become intelligent,
and we must cultivate the talents God has
given us.
	President Smoot followed the sisters with a
few remarks, saying I have been called upon to
make a few remarks to the matrons in Zion.
The teachings you have had are sound, especi-
ally in regard to the training of our children
by the mothers. Among our getting, get wis-
dom, learn to govern your children, the great
secret is union in families; we must learn how
to obtain eternal lives; spoke of the lack of
confidence in God. We must live for eternal
life if we ever gain it. The Kingdom of God
is onward and upward, and we will receive
what we earn. Spoke against Sabbath break-
ing and various other subjects of interest.
	Sister Cluff endorsed what had been said,
and exhorted the sisters to faithfulness and
diligence in their religion.
	Singing. Conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

TOOELE STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. of Tooele
Stake was held at Grantsville, Saturday and
Sunday, December 9th and 10, commencing at
10 a.m. on Saturday, Mrs. Mary A. Hunter
presiding, Counselor Jane Eastham being
present also. From Salt Lake City, Mrs. M.
I. Horne and H. M. Whitney. There were
also in attendance Apostles F. M. Lyman
and H. J. Grant, and Elder B. S. Young. The
meeting opened with the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, minutes of previous con-

[Column 3]
ference were read and accepted, and Sisters
Hunter, Horne and Whitney each addressed
the people a few minutes, giving good instruc-
tion and counsel to the sisters. Afternoon was
occupied by the Primary Associations, most of
the time being spent in exercises by the chil-
dren. The songs, dialogues and recitations
were well chosen and creditably rendered, and
after the programme was completed, Sisters
Horne and Whitney gave some good advice to
the little folks.
	Evening session was the Young Ladies Con-
ference, and much good counsel and encourage-
ment was given by the sisters to the young
people. Apostle F. M. Lyman exhorted the
parents to be kind to the children, make home
desirable, and not cast off their children, but
try to make their home the best place on earth,
for if even one is lost, there will be a vacant
place, and bring sorrow and trouble into our
family.
	Sunday morning the Sabbath School con-
vened, and the sisters from Salt Lake attended,
made some remarks and questioned the chil-
dren, the little ones replying promptly and sat-
isfactorily. Afternoon meeting, after the sac-
rament was administered, Apostle H. J. Grant
was the first speaker, he spoke considerable
upon the training of children, the necessity of
keeping a promise made to them, in order to
set a good example and preserve their confi-
dence, etc. Apostle F. M. Lyman spoke upon
duties of parents and of children to each other,
and upon celestial marriage and the word of
wisdom, and when closing his remarks, im-
plored the blessings of God upon all who were
trying to do right.
	Conference adjourned until March, to be held
in Tooele.
							ANN TATE,
				Cor. Sec. R. S., Tooele Stake.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Primary Association of Ephraim City,
held a fair in the Relief Society Hall on the
2d and 3d of November, 1882. representing
the taste and talent of the little ones from
four years of age to fourteen years. The hall
was lined with bed quilts, rugs, embroidered
and crochet tablecovers, framed pictures of
hair flowers, also of flowers of Berlin wool on
velvet, and a variety of handsome wall pockets.
One table was covered with such things as
breakfast shawls, hoods, stockings, baby shoes,
pillow lace, edging, embroidery, mats, cushions,
shell box, etc. Another table, some pastry and
good bread. On the boys' side was one sailing
vessel, the word WELCOME carved on wood,
rakes, rollers, wagon and harrows; also some
fine beets and other vegetables. No prizes
were given, but we hope the favor of this re-
port in the EXPONENT will help to encourage
the little ones. In the evening, a meeting was
held in the meetinghouse; after the children
had filled the programme, Prest. H. Madsen,
of Gunnison, and her Counselor, addressed the
meetimg, also Sister Greer, President of Manti
P. A. The leading authorities were all pres-
ent. Much satisfaction was given, and much
praise is due to the officers of each ward for
their earnest perseverance, and also to the
children.
				EMMA J. WILLIAMS,
				AUGUSTA STEVENS,
							Presidents,
				C. THORPE, Secretary.

ROCKVILLE, KANE CO.

	We are situated in the tops of the mountains,
as it were, where the Lord has called us to labor;
but notwithstanding our isolation, we can claim
the blessings of our Father in heaven, and he
is just as willing to own us, as he is our more
favored sisters who live near the great lights
that our Father has placed on the earth to
guide his people.


We hold our meetings semi-monthly, and in
our testimony meetings the spirit of the Lord
is poured out abundantly upon the sisters in
the gift of tongues, prophecy, and interpreta-
tion; they are a source of great pleasure to us.
We are called to part with our president,
who is preparing to start for Arizona. The
teachers of the society resolved to give her a
party to express our appreciation of her labors
as president. The schoolhouse was tastefully
decorated for the occasion, under the auspices
of the teachers.
	The society met on the evening of Jan. 3d,
1883, and as the husbands and brothers of the
members were present also, for we desire to
share our joys and sorrows with them, four
large tables were provided, on which was a
most luxurious feast, and even these would not
contain it all Owing to the adroit manage-
ment of our energetic teachers, and the unity
which exists among our sisters, our president
was entirely unconscious of the whole pro-
ceeding, until she, with her husband arrived
at the door, where Bishop C. N. Smith and
his wife "Aunt Lizzie" had escorted them.
After order was restored, Sister Kezia Hall,
manager of the proceedings, addressed Presi-
dent Eleanor C. Morris in a few chosen words,
stating the object of the meeting. After sup-
per, the company was entertained with music,
songs, recitations and remarks from the sisters
and brethren. Sister Amy T. Draper, in be-
half of the teachers, presented a beautiful
album to the president, whose heart was too
full to allow her sentiments to be expressed in
words. Counselor Lizzie C. Smith and
Margaret Brundage, expressed their regret at
losing so faithful a president, also followed by
our esteemed and faithful nurse, Mary Stocks;
after which, the following named teachers
spoke: Marilla T. Allred, Amanda M. Stout,
Sarah Farnes, Clerinda Langston, Henrietta
Stout, Ast. Sec., also Harriet Millet, President
of Shonesburg Society, and Ursulla Gifford,
President of Springdale Society, also Sister
Kezia Hall, of Rockville. Remarks were
made by the following brethren: H. B. Mor-
ris, Bishop C. N. Smith, Counselors James P.
Terry and Wm. Brundage, also C. M. Jen-
nings, Supt. Sunday School. Our worthy
Bishop presented our president with a beauti-
fully bound book of Doctrine and Covenants
as a token of his sincere regard, when she
responded in her quiet way. Sister Kezia
Hall announced that our programme was ex-
hausted, and gave the meeting into the hands
of the Bishop with a request that he or any-
one else could suggest something in which all
could be interested or instructed he expressed
his inability to do so, except a hearty hand-
shaking and God bless you to be given the de-
parting ones. After spending a most enjoyable
evening, in which a spirit of peace and union
prevailed, all felt satisfied and benefitted
with the evening's enjoyment.
		HENRIETTA STOUT, Ast. Sec. R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 127


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS REFLECTIONS.

	This morning as I sit in my warm and cozy
parlor thinking over our numerous blessings
and the goodness of our Heavenly Father in all
the years that have passed and wishing that
every one was equally favored with myself;
though not possessing the treasures of Mammon
or any worldly grandeur, I am truly thankful,
and that I have learned the worthlessness of
these things when not put to the right use,
and for the experience which has taught me
what true riches consist of. Among the
greatest of my blessings is in having gained
this knowledge, and how those greater and
lasting riches are to he obtained. "Better is a
handful with quietness than both the hands full
with travail and vexation of spirit." I have

[Column 2]
many earthly comforts and even luxuries which
I have sorely known the want of in days that
are past, but now in my declining years, I
have many things to cheer me—dwelling
within the bosom of my family and surrounded
by many tried and true friends.
	I was just feeling a little sad at the thought,
of my absent son and thinking if he with wife
and little ones could be with us to-day, our
cup would be overflowing, when who should
open the door but my husband’s oldest
daughter of the other branch, saying with a
bright smile, "Aunt Helen, I did not forget
you," and at the same time, handing me the
tokens of her remembrance aecompanied with
a kiss and the following note: "To Aunt
Helen, with love and best wishes for a happy
Christmas, from Ella," which be assured, were
more highly appreciated for being of her own
skilful handiwork. Other tokens of remem-
brance have been interchanged, but the above
incident will serve our purpose as a text from
which to preach a short Christmas sermon.
This has been her practice from the time that
I ceased dressing dolls and assisting "Santa
Claus" in preparing packages to fill the
numerous pairs of big and little stockings after
the owners had retired, that all might feel joy-
ous together on the long anxiously and looked
for Christmas morning. A delightful means
is this, when attainable, of conveying to one
another our love and kindly feelings, which
upon this day of all others should predomi-
nate, being the anniversary of the morning
that gave birth to Christ the Savior of all
mankind, who, history tells us, was born in a
manger and never had any home. "Foxes have
holes and birds of the air have nests, said
Jesus, but the Son of Man hath not where to
lay his head." We read that "wealth maketh
friends, but the poor is separated from his
neighbor." But it is the poor who can lay claim
to the promise of our Savior. We have no
paupers among us, which seemed to be a sur-
prise to the Commissioners, one of them asking
if we had hidden them away.
	We have the comfort of knowing that the
poor in our diflerent wards are looked after by
the Bishops and our Ladies Relief Societies,
and that they are never forgotten upon the
holidays. All who are able have donated
to make their hearts glad upon this Christmas
day. Not our people alone, but they have
been, remembered by merchants and other
charitable disposed persons outside of our
Church. But do we mothers realize the re-
sponsibilities that are devolving upon us, and
the solemn charge which our Father has com-
mitted into our care and management?

"For the hand that rocks the cradle,
Is the hand that rules the world."

	And oh! what a responsibility and what a
warfare with the various and conflicting pow-
ers that come in opposition to the good—influ-
ences which seem almost unavoidable, are
thrown around our children, and like a whirl-
pool, seem ready to swallow them up. We
have seen the efiects of it and the sorrows of
the disobedient, who have refused, to take
counsel, and have gone their own way, thereby
bringing irreparable ruin upon themselves and
the most heartrending anguish to the hearts of
their loving parents and friends, whose wise
counsel and reproofs they have wilfully disre-
garded. Among the most grievous sins is the
disrespect and irreverence paid to the authority
of the Supreme Being. Little consideration
is paid to the Sabbath day by scores who pro-
fess, or wish to he considered Latter-day Saints,
and how many of the children of Zion are
guilty of this sin ageinst God our Heavenly
Father, upon whom we are dependent; for all
that we enjoy, even for the smallest breath of
life, which He, in an instant, could extinguish
if He saw fit. Is it not a little strange that

[Column 3]
we can not afford to stop and devote one day
to Him out of seven, which He has com-
manded and said that we should keep Holy.
He left open no loop holes for us to find ex-
cuses for our indulgence in vain amusements,
or working to make preparations for them in
the coming week, as we see frequently done in
our midst. Those of more mature years, who
lead out, should set a different example to the
younger, instead of making a wrong use of the
Sabbath day; which many appear to think, un-
avoidable, but I protest against this idea, for
He makes no requirements that are impossible
for His children to fulfil. On this day we
should go to the house of worship, not with
long faces, but with a glad heart and a cheerful
countenance. All our vain thoughts and fool-
ish desires should give way to duty upon that
day, and if we can not restrain ourselves, but
will continue to diregard His wishes, then He
will surely disregard ours in a day to come, for
"As ye have sown, so shall ye reap " But to
the willing and obedient, He will say:

"Ye blessed of my Father, come, ye just,
Enter the joy eternal of your Lord;
Receive yonr crowns, ascend, and sit with Me,
At God’s right hand, in glory evermore."

	Our children should be examples instead of
stumbling blocks to the weak, and we should
all be united in working for the good and ele-
vation of mankind.
	Those modern scribes and pharisees whose
blindness has led them to believe the "Mor-
mons" and especially the ones who have ac-
cepted and obeyed the higher laws of God to be
only the ignorant dupes of a few cunning and
scheming men, devoid of all refinement in their
homes and surroundings, and all those sweet
and holy emotions which are so necessary to
true happiness are ill prepared to pass judg-
ment upon a whole people. For the Latter-
day Saints are trying in their every day walks
to become Saints and useful citizens, minding
their own business, exercising their faculties,
and improving and bringing into use, all the
talents which the Lord has lent them, for this
He requires at the hands of all, to fit and pre-
pare us for those higher walks of life in that
celestial and exalted state, where freed from
the pains and infirmities, which all flesh is heir
to here, we can continue on in our labors of
love, enjoying an eternity of unmolested and
unbroken happiness, in the midst of that glory
which we (in obedience to revelation, having
acted as saviors to the living as well as the
dead, to meet those promises made by our elder
brother Jesus Christ, to our Father, before the
foundation of this world, for the salvation and
exaltation of man) have helped to increase—
for He has promised that we shall become
heirs to God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ,
and as the Prophet Joseph said, "when he
(Jesus) gets his kingdom he will present it to
his Father, so that God may obtain kingdom
upon kingdom, and it will exalt him in glory.
He will then take a higher exaltation, and the
Savior will take his place and thereby become
exalted himself, so that Jesus treads in the
ways of his Father, and inherits what God
did before, and God is thus glorified and ex-
alted in the salvation and exaltation of all His
children." These are some of God’s simple
but grand and eternal truths,which come down
to the understanding even of a little child.
"Every way of a man is right in his own eyes;
but the Lord pondereth the heart." If the
honest portion of the world could, but know
the desires and aims of this people, called
Mormons, and comprehend, even in a small
degree, the high and holy calling to which we
have been called, and have a taste of that
Spirit which illuminates our whole being when
walking in obedience to the commandments of
the Almighty, they would never entertain such
erroneous ideas, and there would be no such


[Column 1]
wicked and foolish accusations raised against
so innocent and law abiding a people.
	Polygamy has been called the "Mormons'
pet theory." If such is the case, it has only
become so by the immense interest which the
world appear to take in it, and the unmerciful
attacks made upon it by those who are entirely
ignorant of the principle, and of the motives
which prompted us to accept it. The unprin-
cipled course which they are pursuing towards
us, compels us to stand in its defence, and they
have taken the wrong step to cool our zeal; we
refer them to the history of past ages for proofs
whether or no we speak truly. There was far
more danger of its dying a natural death,
when all went smoothly. But supposing this
part of our religion was done away with, would
it meet the ends aimed at by these pretended
reformers? No. The ones who are living in
polygamy have been excluded from the polls
by the Commissioners, but it seems to have
brought them no nearer to the solution of the
"problem" than they were before. There is
certainly no mystery in this patriarchal order
of marriage, being Bible doctrine. We are
more than willing that our record should be
placed side by side with theirs. Nothing could
please us better than to have this opportunity
of drawing comparisons, between our lives and
those of the pious souls who seem so pained
over the marriage relations of a few "Mor-
mons" in Utah. But the facts, when simmered
down, are contained in this little sentence:
They cannot handle the "Mormon" funds. The
signs and awful judgments which we see are
being poured out upon the proud and wicked
nations, show that their cup is full and running
over, and it is for us to see that we are not
found upon their side. For they trust in their
own strength, Goliath like, "But our confidence
is in the Almighty God, who, at a beck, can
cast down both them that come against us, and
also all the world."
	Let the mothers and the daughters of Zion
who have entered into this high and holy
order of marriage, be true to themselves and
to their covenants, for if they have done it
with pure motives, they will surely experience
the divine interposition of the of the Almighty in
their behalf, and he will avert the blow; for
hath he not many times delivered us out of
great troubles?
	Let us remember that the prayers of the
righteous availeth much. We read of the
faith of women anciently. There was Susan-
nah, who cried with a loud voice, and the Lord
heard her and raised up the spirit of Daniel,
who stood up in the midst of the people, who
had condemned her to die, and said, "Are ye
such fools, ye sons of Israel, that without ex-
amination or knowledge of the truth ye have
condemned a daughter of Israel? To those
who are planning against us and "have
prounced false judgment and condemned the
innocent and let the guilty go free," it will be
said, "Thou hast also lied against thine own
head, for the angel of God waiteth with the
sword that he may destroy you."
	Let us beware of the tongue of slander, and
that we do not bear false witness against our
neighbor. "Though I have the gift of prophecy,
and understand all mysteries, and all knowl-
edge, and though I have all faith, so that I
could remove mountains and have not charity,
I am nothing;"
	The Latter-day Saints need not look for
peace, for have we not been told that we were
to be tried in the furnace; and the extent of it,
I think we have scarcely begun yet to feel,
and those who have entered into the sacred
and holy order of matrimony thoughtlessly or
treated it as a trifling matter, would do well to
repent and seek unto the Lord until they ob-
tain a testimony for themselves, and not pro-
rastinate the day, for "slothfulness casteth into
deep sleep, and an idle soul shall suffer hun-

[Column 2]
ger." "To do justice and judgment is more
acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice."
	Now as the old year is dying out, and we
are about to commence a new one, let us turn
over another leaf, and begin by forming some
new resolutions, and instead of continuing in the
narrow gauge; step out upon a grander and a
broader scale where the Lord has designed to
place us, and we will be better able to meet
the repeated attacks from our enemies who
are striving to make inroads among us, and
are making their unrighteous and unlawful as-
saults upon our rights and our religion. We
who have been called the weaker vessels are
now being brought to the front and let us show
by our earnest works whether or no we are
made of the right material, that can stand
the burning, thereby proving ourselves an
honor to our Maker.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


128	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The tricycle is rapidly becoming popular
among English ladies, and is considered an ex-
hilerating, healthy and fashionable pastime.

	The Crown Princess of Germany has be-
come patroness of a new institution in Berlin
for the training of married women and girls
as nurses in private families.

	Happy is the man who can bring the very
atmosphere of heaven with him whenever he
approaches us!—who acts upon our spirits as
the May breezes act upon the first shoots of
the tulip and the violet! He is a bountiful
giver. He confers on us light; he beams good-
ness into our souls; he teaches us patience; he
showers on us brotherly kindness; he illustrates
for us faith; he exhibits the true beauty of
meekness; he sheds hope by his very presence;
and his unflinching bravery has often been an
inspiration of valor to our failing hearts.
Next to Christ Himself, there is no blessing to
the community like a Christ-like Christian.—
Dr. T. L. Cuyler.

	JUDGE BIDDLE'S OPINION.—Judge Horace
P. Biddle, of the Indiana Supreme Bench,
says: "In a perfect government every human
being that belongs to it should be represented
without distinction of age, sex, nationality,
color, or condition. The legal status of every
member of the state should be the same, leav-
ing each individual to establish his own mental,
moral, social, religious, pecuniary, or any other
personal status, according to his desire, ability
and merit under the law. Whenever any per-
son is mentally too weak from infancy, age,
idiocy, lunacy, or any other cause, to exercise
the right of suffrage, it should be done for him
by his parents, guardian or whoever has the
legal right over his person and property. Such
a government may not be practicable now, per-
haps never can be, but the tendency of all the
free governments of the earth at the present
time is in that direction; and it is the duty of
every government to approximate such a
standard, and as rapidly as the condition of
its people will safely allow."

	Not a thousand years ago, an enormously
wealthy banker of the Hebrew persuasion,
travelling from Munich to Vienna by rail, at
length condescended to enter into conversation
with a carriage companion, and finally went so
far as to say, "You seem to be a good sort of a
fellow and a gentleman. Look here, I am go-
ing to Vienna to see my daughter, who is mar-
ried there, is awfully rich, and keeps a tip-top
house. I will introduce you to her." The
pleasant stranger thanked him and mentioned
that by a curious coincidence he, too, was trav-
elling to Vienna to see his daughter. "Your
daughter, indeed!" said the Jew banker, with


considerable arrogance, "and pray who may
she be?" "The Empress of Austria," was the
calm reply. The stranger was the Duke M[--]
imilian of Bavaria, father of the present E[-]
press of Austria and the ex-Queen of Naple[--]
accompanied by his aide-de-camp. The utter
collapse of the millionaire can be imagined.-
Ex.


KNITTING FACTORY
On 1st W. St., Bet. 21 and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infan[-]
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twel[-]
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Reside[--]

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIE[-]
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEAS[-]
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS,
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yams,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc, [--]

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 12[-]
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITT[--]

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and [---]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞Address, David James, Box 306, Salt lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER[--]
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


Pres. John Taylor

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1. 1883.	No. 17.


ADDRESS
TO SISTERS ELIZA R. SNOW AND ZINA D.
.H. YOUNG, JANUARY 25, 1883.

I ne'er had counted till to-night
	The precious years since first we met;
They've flown so quickly, and each one
	Has grown in value richer yet.

My life at that time had not known
	Aught worth the name of sober care,
Though premonitions sometimes came
	(As night winds far-off sounds may bear).

And nearer coming also found
	These, rich in wisdom, near my side,
True friends, who lent their helping hands,
	And gave their loving words beside.

O, may I never lose the joy
	That I have met and won such friends,
But keep it also through the life
	That through eternity extends.

Go thou, my page, gently for me,
	And from my heart this message bear;
To-night, when friends in love surround,
	My spirit shall be also there.

And still for many year to come
	May truest friends their greetings bring,
And in unbroken circle join
	Their praises of thy lives to sing.

					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
THE SPHERE OF WOMAN.

BY C. R. SAVAGE.

	There are very few subjects upon which
opinions vary as much, as upon the sphere of
the gentler sex, and the ideas concerning her
true position are different in every clime and
amongst all people. It is left to the negroes of
central Africa to give us the picture of woman
in the lowest state of existence socially and
morally, for nowhere else can she be found in
a more sunken or degraded condition; and if
the horrors connected with her capture and
sale into slavery are added to her previous con-
dition, her state of being presents the most in-
tensified degree of human misery.
	It has been stated that as fast as a nation
increases in intelligence so does the social
position of the female rise to a higher plane;
the question therefore arises, admitting this
proposition, why should not our mothers, who
bear the brunt of the social tie, enjoy every
right and privilege that the sterner sex claim?
Who can say just what she should do, or what
she should not do? On the continent of
Europe, in Germany, Switzerland, France, and
other countries, she can be seen working in the
fields, gathering manure on the high roads,
helping bricklayers, cleaning streets, unloading
steamers, and performing every other kind of
dreary, deadening occupations, until in form
and feature she loses the gracefulness which
constitutes the prominent charm of the sex we
love, and yet in spite of these facts the inhab-
itants of these countries consider themselves
the most enlightened nations of the earth, and
easily get rid of the disgrace by assuming that
some persons are necessarily born to be the
servants and slaves of others born under more
favorable auspices. With all such conclusions
I most emphatically differ; for nowhere in any
sacred writing do we find that she was ever al-
lotted any inferior or degraded position; but
on the contrary she was given as a helpmate

[Column 2]
for man in the first chronicles of her advent
upon our earth, to be his companion and aid,
that by the greater beauty and charms of her
person she could modify the coarseness of the
sterner sex, that while he, strong and sturdy,
should battle with the rough scenes of life, in
the struggle for existence, she could by the
gentleness of her manner and the feminine
graces that all true women possess, render his
life perfect. The sacred writ declares that
man is not perfect without the woman, and
vice versa. In what part of our earth where
there is a semblance of a house do we not find
woman the prominent figure, and who shall
say that as empress of the social circle of a
happy home she is not the equal of man; and
is this not pre-eminently her true sphere of
usefulness? Who that has watched the loving
mother, sitting by the bed of sickness and has
seen her patient, untiring power to wait upon
the unfortunate; her loving tenderness towards
renegade children; her patient endurance in
the trials of maternity; her self-denial in times
of adversity, and other evidences of the great-
ness of the feminine heart can deny her sex
whatever right will contribute to her happi-
ness? Who that has felt the magic tenderness
of the soothing hand of our wives or mothers
on our troubled brows during sickness, can for-
get its influence, and what touch of man's can
equal it in intensity of expression?
	It may therefore be briefly summed up that
man is greatest abroad, and woman at home;
thus are they equal. How many instances are
there in the experience of thousands of suc-
cessful men where the quick perceptions of the
softer sex have aided and guided the states-
man, patriot, warrior and pioneer to success?
History is full of such instances. The op-
posite sex are always ready to share in the toils
and struggles of man, whether battling for
freedom or as pioneers seeking homes in new
countries; who therefore dare say that she is
a born drudge? Who is woman? If I were
asked what kind of employment is best suited
to the other sex, I should say that any kind
that needs nimble fingers more than main
strength, in other words that labor that does
not tax the back more than the hands. Women
excel in telegraphy, photography, needle work,
music, medicine, surgery, as clerks in stores, as
teachers, as artists, but I do not detract from
the previous proposition that she should excel
in the art of house management. It should be
a definitely established maxim that competency
in house government should stand first in the
minds of mothers, when teaching their daughters
the duties of life. A knowledge of some
avocation always proves available when ad-
versity overtakes a woman, and when a lady
settles down to learn any of the above spheres
of usefulness, let it be one she loves to work at,
and she will sure to be successful; if she learn
one thing well it will come into use when
thrown upon her own resources.
	The question arises, what is the position of
woman under the influence of the "Mormon"
faith? Is there any part of the principles
given to us through the instrumentality of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, that assigns to our
ladies a degraded position? Are there any
rights enjoyed in the so-called enlightened
countries that the ladies of Utah do not enjoy?
Has she been denied any right, socially, com-
mercially or politically under the social in-
fluences existing in Utah? I say no! Our
ladies are showing the effects of the true

[Column 3]
enlightenment springing from faith in the
great latter-day work, and are to-day making
their mark as physicians, editors, writers, as
presidents of Relief and Improvement societies
to as great an extent (all things considered) as
are the ladies in older and more highly favored
countries.
	We may thus conclude that the sphere of
woman extends into any vocation to which she
can give her sole attention, and also that she is
as much of a success in what she tries to do as
are her fathers and brothers. If a community
can be measured as to her intellectual status
by the right enjoyed by woman, I claim for our
social system the highest position as being em-
phatically that one which, if fostered and sus-
tained, will give to our wives and daughters
whatever blessing their heart desires and all
the rights they can enjoy.—From "The Index,"
Vol. V., No. 5, Twentieth Ward Institute.


DIVINITY OF THE BIBLE.

	A short time ago I was asked by a lady if
I really believed the Bible to be a divinely in-
spired book, and not merely the writings and
wisdom of men alone. I was somewhat sur-
prised at the question coming from the source
it did, for though I had heard men ridicule and
mock the idea of its being of sacred origin it
was the first time I had ever heard it doubted
by a woman. To me it bears on its pages the
seal of its divinity, is its own strong witness,
and viewed in connection with the signs of the
times as they are transpiring daily before our
eyes, it seems to me there is no possible room
for doubt, that the blindest of the blind might
see if they would, but there are none so blind and
hopeless as those who will not look, who reso-
lutely close their eyes for fear they might per-
chance see and have to believe.
	In thinking on this subject events recorded
in the Bible, scenes therein portrayed pass be-
fore me as a grand panorama, and for me to
doubt would be unpardonable sacrilege. The
account of the creation, the council of Gods,
their decision and the accomplishment of their
designs and labors goes far beyond anything
man, by his wisdom alone, has ever produced.
Although somewhat changed and marred by
the handling of uninspired men, there is enough
of the beauty and perfection of the design, of
the plan of salvation, and a wisdom so far
superior to anything we can fiud in man, that
we must look beyond him for its origin, and
the light of the spirit of its great Author will
enable us to read and understand aright, to
partially see its magnificence, but all its glory
is beyond the conception of mortal sight.
	The leading down into Egypt of Joseph and
his father's house, the building up from them
of a great nation, their bondage, deliverance,
and travels in the wilderness is marvelous
work and a wonder, beyond the powers of man
to even imitate. The book of Psalms, Proverbs,
etc., bear too plainly on their pages the stamp
of inspiration to be doubted by any honest
heart, and when we turn to the Revelations
therein contained, to the prophecies of the
Prophets, and see how they have been and are
being fulfilled the blindness of the world is a
marvel, and seemingly their ignorance unpar-
donable, because willful and unnecessary; but
"they love darkness rather than light, be-
cause their deeds are evil." And when we
turn to the record of Jesus, his teachings and
works on earth, his crucifixion and resurre


tion, words fail. Well might Josephus doubt
"if it were lawful to call him a man." Take
that one great sermon on the Mount, plain,
simple, yet containing more in a few sentences
than volumes of the writings of the most
learned of men, principles that if lived up to
would enable us to become saints of God in
deed; but I fear that a life time of earnest
study and endeavor will not be enough to en-
able us to reach the standard of perfection
pointed out by Jesus to his followers that day
on the Mount.					HOPE.


130	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
AND PATRIARCH.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	There seemed an overruling providence in
the Apostles being away at the time of the
martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, for the
time had come for them to seal their testimony
with their blood. If the Twelve had been
there they would never have permitted them
to recross the river into Illinois, much less to
be given up, as they were, quietly and without
a struggle into the hands of a bloodthirsty
mob. The news of their death fell like a
thunderbolt upon the Saints and sped like wild-
fire throughout the land, and a terrible fear
took possession of the people. Believing that
the "Mormons" would seek revenge, many of
them fled from the county.
	President Brigham Young and Orson Pratt
were at Salem, N. H., when the rumor first
met them. They went to Peterboro, where
they heard it confirmed by a letter from
Nauvoo, written by a Mr. Powers, giving par-
ticulars of their assassination. They started im-
mediately for Boston to meet my father and
Wilford Woodruff, who had also heard the
dreadful news. A council was then held
relative to their return to Nauvoo. They felt
that the Saints were as sheep without a shep-
herd. Brigham and father waited there one
week for Apostle Lyman Wight. As soon as
he arrived they started for home. Brothers
Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt and Wilford Wood-
ruff joining them at Albany. They arrived at
Nauvoo on the 6th day of August, 1844.
	As is well known, Sidney Rigdon, who had
shirked his duties and moved with his family
to Pittsburg some time previous to Joseph’s
death, took advantage of the absence of the
majority of the Twelve, to hasten to Nauvoo
to lay claim to the guardianship of the
Church, claiming to have had a vision from
the Lord concerning them, which he related
at his first appearance before a congregation
of the Saints, saying that he was the identical
man whom the Prophets had sung about,
wrote about, and rejoiced over in every pre-
ceding generation, etc.
	Elder Parley P. Pratt remarked, "I am the
identical man the Prophets never sung nor
wrote a word about." I was one of the listen-
ers, and I think that very few of the Saints
felt that Sidney Rigdon, who had deserted his
post when Joseph stood most in need of him,
was "the man whom the Lord had called" for
a shepherd to lead His sheep, in this the sad-
dest and darkest hour of their experience.
	A day was appointed by Marks, the pres-
ident of the stake, for a special conference to
choose a guardian. Bros. Willard Richards,
Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor and George
A. Smith were opposed to this hasty step, and
the former counseled the Saints not to be in
a hurry, but to wait till the Twelve Apostles
returned, and "ask wisdom of God." Elder
Rigdon evaded these men, as if unwilling to
come in contact with them, until he was forced
to meet them in council. He was a very ex-
citable man, and upon this occasion he paced
the room as he gave utterance to the

[Column 2]
following: "Gentlemen, you are used up;
gentlemen, you are divided, the anti-Mor-
mons have got you; the brethren are voting
every way, some for James, some for Deming,
some for Coulson, and some for Bedill. The
anti-Mormons have got you; you can’t stay in
the country; every thing is in confusion; you
can do nothing. You lack a great leader; you
want a head; and unless you unite upon that
head, you’re blown to the four winds." The
anti-Mormons will carry the election;, a guar-
dian must be appointed."
	There was no division among the brethren,
as Bro. George A. Smith there assured them,
and that Elder Rigdon was entirely mistaken,
saying, "the election would be unanimous, and
the friends of law and order will be elected
by a thousand majority. There is no occasion
to be alarmed. Brother Rigdon is inspiring
fears there are no grounds for."
	The second day after the Apostle’s return
to Nauvoo, President Brigham Young called a
special conference, to give Elder Rigdon the
opportunity to lay his claims before the Church.
Meetings were then held in a grove some
little distance east of the Temple, where a
great multitude gathered together; for this day
—was to decide who was to "lead Israel,"
Sidney Rigdon, or the Twelve Apostles. That
was a day never to be forgotten. I was
among the number that was obliged to stand,
it being impossible for half of the congrega-
tion to be seated. Mr. Hatch, a young lawyer,
whom I had formed acquaintance with at our
theatre the Spring previous, stood by me.
We had been on pleasant terms, but lately he
had turned Rigdonite, and frequently, during
that long harangue, he spoke in defence and
praise of the speaker, and tried to convince
me that he was the right man to lead the
Church. He very quickly learned my feel-
ings, and how offensive he had made himself.
My father was seated there with Brigham
and the rest of the Apostles, and I became
very indignant, and quite a war of words en-
sued, neither of us (of course) yielding the
point. N long after this he married one of
Rigdon’s daughters, which proved to be the only
loadstone that attracted him in that direction.
	At 2 p. m. the congregation again con-
vened to hear President Brigham Young.
He asked them the following questions in be-
half of the Twelve and the people:	*	*	*
"Inasmuch as our Prophet and Patriarch are
taken from our midst, do you want some one
to guard, to guide, and lead you through this
world into the kingdom of God, or not? All
who want some person to be a guardian, or a
prophet, a spokesman, or something, else, sig-
nify it by raising the right hand." (No votes.)
He said, "If any man thinks he has influence
among this people, to lead away a party, let
him try it, and he will find out that there is
power with the Apostles, which will carry them
off victorious through all the world, and
build up and defend the Church and kingdom
of God.	*	*	*	*	Brother Rigdon has
come 1,600 miles to tell you what he wants
to do for you. If the people want Brother
Rigdon to lead them, they may have him, but
I say unto you, the Twelve have the keys of
the kingdom of God in all the world."
	"The Twelve are pointed out by the finger
of God. Here is Brigham, have his knees
ever faltered? Have his lips ever quivered?
Here is Heber and the rest of the Twelve; an
independent body, who have the keys of the
Priesthood, the keys of the kingdom of God
to deliver to all the world. This is true, so
help me God! They stand next to Joseph,
and are as the first presidency of the Church.
I do not know whether my enemies will take
my life or not, and I do not care, for I want
to be with the man I love."	*	*	*	*
	"Brother Joseph, the prophet, has laid the
foundation of a great work and we will build

[Column 3]
upon it.	*	*	There is an Almighty foundation
laid, and we can build a kingdom such as there
never was in the world; we can build a kingdom
faster than Satan can kill the Saints off."
	I merely copy these few paragraphs to show
whether the keys of the kingdom were held
by the Twelve Apostles or by Sidney Rigdon.
The latter, sorely feeling his discomfiture, re-
turned immediately to Pittsburg; and the
work that he accomplished is a matter of
history, but unworthy of further notice here.
	It was thought by anti-Mormons that with
Joseph Smith’s death "Mormonism" would
cease to have a being. Those apostates said,
"Their damnation is sealed; their die is cast;
their doom is fixed." But Brigham said:
"There is an Almighty foundation laid, and
*	*	we can build a kingdom faster than
Satan can kill the Saints off." We are able to
testify that his words have not failed—no one
can deny their fulfilment. Our enemies were
blinded and did not see that "the blood of the
Prophet was the seed of the Church;" nor that
their predictions were so soon to be answered
upon their own heads instead of upon those
of the Saints, who that day recognized in
Brigham Young the voice of the true shepherd.
	For proofs that retribution has been meted
out to many who had a hand in our persecu-
tions, and the shedding of innocent blood
which cried to heaven for vengance, we refer
to a chapter of testimonies which, long since,
were given by the guilty, and have been lately
published in a little book entitled, "The Mar-
tyrs, by Lyman O. Littlefield; showing also
how "the sins of the fathers are visited upon
the children. These things are terrible to re-
flect upon, and how awful to think that it
should be so, adding to their own sufferings,
which they were doomed to endure here, be-
sides the terrible punishment hereafter.
	I can bear witness, with hundreds of others
who stood that day under the sound of Brig-
ham’s voice, of the wonderful and startling
effect that it had upon us. If Joseph had
risen from the dead and stood before them,
it could hardly have made a deeper or more
lasting impression. It was the very voice of
Joseph himself. This was repeatedly spoken
of by the Latter-day Saints. And surely
it was a most powerful and convincing tes-
timony to them that he was the man, instead
of Sidney Rigdon, that was destined to be-
come the "great leader," and upon whose
shoulders the mantle of Joseph had fallen.
	I will here mention a little circumstance to
show that there was still a warm place in the
heart of Prest. Brigham Young towards Elder
Rigdon. It is now more than twenty years
since his two eldest sons, Sidney and Wickliffe,
came out West in search of gold, the latter hop-
ing also to find health, which he lost while
studying law, and had been for some time a
sufferer from dyspepsia. Being old school-
mates, my husband invited them to share our
hospitality while they staid. They accom-
panied him to the office to see President B.
Young, who gave them a kindly welcome, and
the first opportunity that presented itself of
speaking alone to my husband, he said:
"Horace, you give those boys a home with you,
and you shall lose nothing by it." Horace in-
formed him that he had already done so.
Everything that laid in our power was done to
make them feel comfortable and at home.
Wickliffe remained here through the summer,
and Sidney stopped with us whenever he came
in from the mines. Wickliffe was more re-
ligiously inclined than the other, and he ex-
pressed himself to Mother Whitney and to
Sister E. R. Snow, that he would give all that
he had if he could know of the truth of "Mor-
monism." He wrote after returning home and
and expressed his appreciation of the hospital-
ity that they met with, while wanderers in this
far off land.				(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 131


﻿IF IT BE TRUE.

If it be true, and who shall dare deny
The universal voice of prophecy?
If it be true, that just beyond the river,
Which we call death, the soul shall live forever
In a fair country bathed in morning light.
If we are soon to range that realm of bliss,
Should my proud soul be wedded into this?

If it be true that we are children all
Of one kind Father, at whose gracious call
We come to livo in peace with one another,
That every child of sorrow is my brother—
If it be true that virtue has no guise,
Nor gold the power to purchase paradise.
If the dear Father loves the weak and poor,
Nor turns aside from any humble doer,
If he would seek his children’s happiness,
Why in my labor should I venture less?

If soon beneath the very turf I tread
This mortal form shall slumber with the dead,
And, resting on its cold and crumbling pillow,
Shall no more feel the toss of passion's billow;
If head and hand no more have power to move,
To thoughts of mercy or to deeds of love,
Should I this lingering moment consecrate
To thoughts unkind or deeds of scorn or hate?
If it be true—and this I surely know,
That I shall reap the very kind I sow,
That I must stand alone—not for another,
And answer for myself—not for my brother;
Then should I waste my life in fruitless care,
For what another’s conscience has to bear,
Save, if I may, to bear some humble part,
To lift the burden from an aching heart?
					—Buffalo Sunday Courier.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

	The youth of Sister Presendia was passed
in comparative seclusion, in the quiet country
town where she was born. The advantages of
education enjoyed at that early period were
few, and in remote districts such as Watertown,
the people were only taught to read, write and
spell and a little arithmetic and geography.
This was considered quite sufficient, especially
for girls. Presendia Huntington had a mind
deep enough to have grappled with the most
abstruse studies, but such was not the order of
the day when she was young, therefore she was
compelled to submit to the existing conditions
of the times, while her whole soul thirsted af-
ter knowledge and intelligence. Girls were
taught housewifery in all its details and de-
partments. They were also taught to spin and
weave, to knit and sew. The amusements
were mostly dancing and riding on horseback.
Everything was very primitive and simple and
done in the most economical manner. In those
days the habits of life were such as promoted
health, activity and full physical development.
Sister Presendia merged from childhood into a
very large well-proportioned and handsome
young woman. In mind she was inclined to
be spiritual and reverential, though not pro-
nounced, as to a declaration of her religious
sentiments. She became acquainted with
Norman Buell, a young man of considerable
ability and enterprise, and after a formal
courtship subsequently married him at the age
of seventeen. The first years of the married
life of Mr. and Mrs. Buell were passed in
Mansville, New York. Mr. Buell was a manu-
facturer, and his business was so different to
anything his wife had been accustomed to in
her own home on a farm, that she was inclined
to be unhappy on account of it, though in a
worldly point of view they were well off.
There first child was born in Mansville, Dec.
12, 1828, and was called George. Shortly af-
ter, on account of Mrs. Buell's predilections in
favor of farm life, her husband sold his ma-

[Column 2]
chinery and business and returned to his
father's in Redmond, Jefferson Co., N. Y.
The estate of Mr. Buell's father being settled
soon after, he received his portion and bought
a hundred acres of land in an adjoining coun-
ty township of Pinbury, Lewis Co. There he
built a nice comfortable house and a commo-
dious barn, set out an orchard of valuable
fruit trees, and stocked his farm well with
cattle and sheep. There was also a maple
orchard on the farm, so they manufactured
their own molasses and sugar as well as some
to sell. They kept geese too, and as Mrs.
Buell was a farmer's daughter and accustomed
to all the details of farm life, she soon had her
house well supplied with downy feather beds.
They raised flax too, and Mrs. Buell worked
up for domestic use large quantities of both
wool and flax. Her husband made a loom in
which she did the weaving, so you can readily
understand her hands were never idle; and in
the language of the Scripture it might be said
of her, "she layeth her hands to the spindle
and her hands hold the distaff;" "she maketh
fine linen and selleth it," and so on. Here
upon the farm in the new bouse her second
son was born, Dec. 25, 1831. The young
couple cleared seventy acres of the new land
and made a splendid farm. They made up
their minds to acquire wealth by dint of hard
labor, industry and perseverance. They were
united in the endeavor to make their home
comfortable and pleasant, and the young wife
performed her part well, assisting her husband
as much as possible. Sister Presendia says, "I
primed all the sash for our house, made the
putty, set the glass and painted the whole
house inside and as far outside as I could
reach, Mr. Buell finishing where I could not
reach." In the fall of 1833, she repainted the
parlor floor; her little boy Silas run in while
the paint was still wet and left the prints of his
little feet; she had good cause to remember
this circumstance, and it imprinted itself firm-
ly upon her heart after, for on the 13th of
November a terrible accident occurred by
which the little one lost his life. The mother
had been boiling down cider in a very large
brass kettle, and this having been removed to
another room, the little boy went in and acci-
dentally fell so that he was burned and died
thirteen hours after the injury. Sister Presen-
dia says, "no one but a mother can realize the
sorrow of an accidental death." This was the
end of happiness at the farm. The mother's
health gradually failed; she was unable to ful-
fill the daily duties devolving upon her, and
it was considered advisable to get the counsel
of some physician. Mr. Buell was going from
home on business to Adams village, and it was
decided to take Mrs. B. with him to see a doc-
tor. Mrs. B. was so ill that they could not re-
turn home, and at the house of Dr. Baggs, at
Lorain, on the return route, she was obliged to
remain. Here she was so low that her father
and mother were sent for. Mrs. B. was con-
fined with a son, who died the same day it was
born, March 8, 1834; it was named Thomas
Dymick. Her parents, as was previously
stated, were strict Presbyterians, believing much
in the efficacy of prayer. She says, "when my
father left me he said, in a feeling and tender
manner, 'may the Son of Righteousness arise
with healing in his wings,' and I felt he never
expected to see me again." However, through
good nursing and medical treatment she was
restored to health, but she did not wish to re-
turn to the farm, there were too many sad re-
collections connected with it. Mr. Buell sold
his farm and rented a woolen factory in Lorain,
resuming his favorite employment.
	About this time, Sister Presendia says, the
ministers of the different denominations in that
vicinity tried to persuade them to unite with
the church, each one presenting his particular
views, desirous to have them receive and be-

[Column 3]
lieve as he did. But Mr. and Mrs. Buell be-
lieved they were all wrong, and stood aloof
from all. About the same time a rumor
reached them of a "golden Bible" being found
in the "Hill Cumorah" in their own native
State. They looked upon it as another re-
ligious speculation, for they had seen much
deception and wickedness among professors of
religion, and therefore took very little notice
of the report.
	In the summer of 1835, while residing in
Lorain, Sister Presendia says, "my mother
came to visit me and brought the 'Word of
Wisdom' in writing, it had not yet been print-
ed, and she gave me the first intelligence of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and the record taken
from the Hill Cumorah. I felt it was true,
and thought I would keep the Word of Wis-
dom and obtain the blessings promised."

[To be continued.]


WHICH IS MOST VALUABLE.

	I am sadly conscious that thousands of
mothers are so over burdened that the actual
demands of life, from day to day, consume all
their time and strength. But "of two evils
choose the least;" and which would you call
the least, an unpolished stove, or an untaught
boy? Dirty windows, or a child whose confi-
dence you have failed to gain? Cobwebs in
the corner, or a son over whose soul a crust
has formed so strong that you despair of melt-
ing it with your hot tears and your fervent
prayers?
	I have seen a woman who was absolutely
ignorant of her children’s habit of thought,
who never felt that she could spare a half
hour to read or talk with them—I have seen
this woman spend ten minutes in ironing a
a sheet—there were six in the washing—one
hour in fluting the ruffles and arranging the
puffs of her little girl’s "sweet white suit;"
thirty minutes in polishing tins which were
already bright and clean; forty minutes in
frosting and decorating a cake for tea, because
"company" was expected.
	When that mother—a good orthodox Chris-
tian—shall appear before the Great White
Throne, to be judged for "the deeds done in
the body," and to give in her report of the
Master’s treasures placed in her care—there
will be questions and answers like these:
	"Where are the boys and girls I gave thee?"
	"Lord, I was busy in keeping my house
clean and in order, and my children wandered
away!"
	"Where wert thou while thy sons and thy
daughters were learning lessons of dishonesty,
malice, and impurity?"
	"Lord, I was polishing furniture and ruffling
dresses, and making beautiful rugs!"
	"What hast thou to show for thy life-work?"
	"The tidiest house, Lord, and the best
starching and ironing in all our neighborhood!"
	Oh! these children! these children! The
restless, eager boys and girls whom we love
more than our own lives! Shall we devote
our time and strength to that which perisheth,
while the rich garden of our child’s soul lies
neglected, with foul weeds choking out all
worthy and beautiful growths? Shall we ex-
alt the incidentals of life to the rank of a
purpose, to the shutting out of that work
whose results reach beyond the stars?
	Fleeting oh! mother, are the days of child-
hood; and speckless windows, snowy linen,
the consciousness that everything about the
house is faultlessly bright and clean, will be
poor comfort in that day wherein we shall dis-
cover that our boy’s feet have chosen the path
that shall' take him out of the way to all
eternity.—Marriet M. Morris in Woman’s
Journal.


132	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	*	*	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	FEBRUARY 1, 1883.


[Column 1]
UTAH'S CLAIMS TO STATEHOOD.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON STATISTICS,
APPOINTED AT THE CONSTITU-
TIONAL CONVENTION.

	The Declaration of Independence, which
enunciates some of the fundamental principles
of popular government, specifies liberty as one
of the inalienable rights of man. This undoubt-
edly includes, if it does not directly refer to,
political liberty. Governments are instituted to
secure this as well as other rights, and the just
powers of governments are derived from the
consent of the governed. Under the system of
territorial governments—which does not appear
to have been contemplated in the Constitution
of the United States, an instrument framed in
accordance with the spirit of the Declaration of
Independence, political liberty in its true sense
is not secured and cannot be enjoyed. The peo-
ple are governed without their consent. They
have no voice in the selection of the executive
judicial or administrative officers sent to man-
age their affairs, nor in the election of the na-
tional officers who appoint them. Laws are
framed for their obedience, in the enactment of
which they take no part, proper congressional
representation being denied them, their one
Delegate having no vote in the National Legis-
lature. And their own local enactments are
subject to arbitrary annulment or repeal.
	According to the same instrument which de-
fines human rights and points out the way by
which they should be secured, it is the right of
the people when the government under which
they exist does not answer the purpose for
which it was designed, to institute a new gov-
ernment; and not only to alter but abolish it
when it becomes destructive of those ends. The
change from a Territory to a State government
is therefore a rightful alteration, if in the forma-
tion of the State the principles of equal freedom
and popular government are established and
maintained.
	Utah has additional reasons for a change of
government to those which have justified other
Territories in throwing off the yoke which
weighed them down and asserting and acquir-
ing political liberty. Besides the ordinary disad-
vantages already named, she is so much in bon-
dage as to be placed under a "one man power"
of the most irksome character. The Governor
appointed by authority over which the people
have no control or influence, has the power of
absolute veto, by which the legislative acts of
their own elected representatives can be ren-
dered void at will; and against such autocratic
dominion there is no remedy. This is despotism
pure and simple. The citizens of Utah are thus
not freemen but vassals. The colonial bondage
against which the fathers rebelled was liberty
compared to this imperailism. No people im-
bued with a republican spirit would endure it

[Column 2]
any longer than they are compelled to. It is
their inalienable right to cast it off as soon as
they gain the needful strength.
	But the citizens of Utah have never contem-
plated rebellion against the authority of the
United States, however arbitrarily the power of
that Government may have been exercised.
They revere the Constitution, they owe and ac-
knowledge allegiance to the Federal Union, and
have always been anxious to occupy that posi-
tion connected therewith to which a free peo-
ple are entitled. They have therefore repeated-
ly sought admission into the Union as a State.
Having failed heretofore, they are now making
another application. The propriety and right-
fulness of this course must certainly be con-
ceded by all resonable minds.
	The power to admit new States into the Fed-
eral Union rests with the Congress of United
States. The only general constitutional rule to
govern such admission is that a republican form
of government shall be provided for and secured
to the new State. But other things are usually
required, the right to demand which is not dis-
puted, such as a sufficient population to bear the
burden of a State government; an area of terri-
tory large enough for growth and expansion;
property of sufficient value to yield a reasonable
revenue; the material elements necessary to the
support of a growing commonwealth; intelli-
gence adequate to self-government; due regard
for republican principles, by which liberty shall
be extended within the limits of wholesome
law to all classes, parties and creeds without dis-
tinction. Utah possesses all the qualifications
which may be reasonably demanded and which
have ever been required of any other commun-
ity seeking the rights and privileges of a free
State.
	The population of this Territory, according to
the census of 1880, was 14,963, of whom 99,969
are native born. With the natural increase and
the influx by immigration, the present popula-
tion may be safely placed at 160,000. The census
of 1870 gave Utah a population of 86,786. The
increase from 1870 to 1880 was 65 per cent., or
5,315 per cent. per annum. At the same ratio
Utah by June 1882 will have a population of
167,301. This is considerably above the figure
ever required heretofore as a condition to State-
hood.
	The land area of the Territory is 84,970 square
miles, its water area 2,780 miles. It stretches
325 miles north and south and 300 miles
east and west, and over 10,000,000 acres of
the public domain therein have been surveyed.
Wherever a stream of water flows down from
the mountain heights, settlements have been
farmed, which grow in numbers and wealth as
larger areas are brought under cultivation
through the increase of the water supply, the
volume of which enlarges remarkably, and as
various industries in addition to agriculture are
established. There are at least 350,000 acres of
land under fence, and the grain crop is not less
than 3,000,000 bushels per annum. The foot-
hills and benches afford ample grazing grounds
for stock, herds of cattle and bands of horses
fatten upon them for home use and extensive
export, and sheep raising has assumed large
proportions, the present number being in the
neighborhood of three quarters of a million,
shearing annually about 2,700,000 pounds of
wool. Factories are established for the manu-
facture of yarn, cloth, blankets, shawls, etc.,
in various parts of the Territory, and over a mil-
lion and a half pounds of wool is exported. All
kinds of fruit grown in the States flourish in
Utah and are of superior quality, dried apricots,
peaches, apples, plums and small fruit being
among her most profitable exports.
	According to the census of 1880, Utah had

[Column 3]
1,966 manufacturing establishments, employing
3,221 persons, with invested capital to the
amount of $2,839,463, producing goods to the
value of $4,217,434. These have materially in-
creased during the past two years, and it is safe
to put the manufactures of Utah at $6,000,000
per annum. This is exclusive of smelting and
reduction works. The principle manufactures
are flour, meal, cheese, salt, molasses, leather,
boots and shoes, harness, saddles, woolen goods,
hosiery, lumber, sash, doors, mouldings, brick,
lime, charcoal, machinery, furniture, paper,
soap, glue, candles, earthenware, brooms,
brushes, hats, basketware, candy, crackers,
matches, etc. There are several foundries and
machine shops, many saw mills, planing mills,
etc.
	The principal mineral products of Utah are
gold, silver, lead, copper, iron, coal, sulphur,
antimony, mica, rock salt, arsenic, alum, cinna-
bar, colbalt, bismuth, gypsum, marble, granite,
sandstone, limestone, slate, ochres, mineral wax,
kaolin, clays of various kinds, etc. The bullion
product of the year 1882, as gleaned from the
annual report of Wells, Fargo & Co., is as fol-
lows: Gold, 9,039 ounces; silver, 5,435,444
ounces; copper, 605,880 pounds; refined lead,
8,213,798 pounds; unrefined lead, 52,349,850
pounds. The total value of these products,
computing the gold and silver at mint valuation
and the other metals at their seaboard value, is
$10,312,902.
	Since the opening of her mines Utah has pro-
duced over $60,000,000 in the "precious" metals.
New mines are constantly being discovered and
many of the old ones are both permanent and
profitable. The stability which statehood would
give to the institutuions of Utah would impart
confidence to investors, and capital would flow
in by which the still hidden treasures of the
hills could be unlocked and brought forth to
enrich the State and benefit the nation.
	Among the undeveloped resources of the
Territory are the iron deposits, which exist in
many localities and are declared by noted ex-
perts to be unexcelled in intrinsic value by any
in the world. The ores are magnetite and he-
matite, and yield from 50 to 65 per cent. of iron
and both in quality and quantity the deposits
are remarkable. In close proximity are valuable
and extensive deposits of coal, also of limestone,
which will render the manufacture of iron easy
and cheap, when larger capital imparts vitality
to labor and a solid political basis is laid to give
stability to important enterprises. Coal fields
of vast extent are being opened in other parts of
the Territory. There is salt enough to pickle
the world, sulphur enough to suffocate it, coal
enough to cremate it. There is lead, iron, mica,
antimony, and other minerals enough to supply
the country for centuries, and the capabilities of
this important section of the public domain are
only just conmencing to be understood.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]


ONE WOMAN'S OPINION.

	Another attempt is being made in the Con-
gress of the United States to disfranchise the
women of Utah. The Woman's Convention
recently held in Washington, passed resolutions
denouncing these attempts and have been be-
fore the House proclaiming against it as an evil
display of power. While these and thousands
of other noble women throughout the land, and
hundreds of liberal minded men are laboring in
the interest of securing the franchise to all
women, here are a few narrow-minded politi-
cians trying to deprive a handful of women,
away in the far west, of that privilege which
they had exercised already twelve years, and no
one has ever been able to say, the least evil re-


[Column 1]
﻿sult had followed. These liberal minded per-
sons who are so anxious to better the condition
of the women of Utah, and who made such
boasts of what they would do for them, during
the late campaign, when electioneering for Dale-
gate to Congress, are now urging the lawmakers
of the nation to annul the act of the Utah Leg-
islature confering upon women the right to vote.
It is plain as possible that it is a little game of
subtraction they are trying to play, and at the
expense of women; they have scarcely the
courage yet to say, take the ballot from men
because they believe in a certain religion, but
women are "weak creatures," and it will be an
easy matter to make Congress believe women
ought not to have the privilege of voting, and
that will take away from the People's Party a
few thousand votes weakening their ranks a
little, and equalizing the two parties somewhat.
	Plural marriage does not enter into the ques-
tion at all, for no woman on whom a suspicion
has fallen of entering into such relations, is
allowed to vote under the Edmunds law as in-
terpreted by the Commissioners. Consequently
that settles that matter decidedly. It is not
because they vote for men to hold office who
have more than one wife, for such men cannot
hold any office, well why is it? Simply because
they want to obtain a balance of power, by
working away at the rule of subtraction. They
would take away every right and privilege that
the men and women enjoy who settled this
desert land without the least conscientious
scruple Mormon women are entitled to some
privileges for the part they took in opening up
this new country. Many of them drove cattle
over the plains, yoking and unyoking the team
themselves, cooked for their children, made
their own fires, etc., while the husband and
father was in the United States service. This
people, driven from their homes in Nauvoo, and
compelled to go out into the wilderness, and
afterwards called upon to furnish five-hundred
able-bodied men to go to Mexico, a most un-
common request, yet cheerfully complied with;
undergoing numberless privations and hard-
ships, in which women bore their share uncom-
plainingly, have had comparative peace and
prosperity for a number of years here in the
mountain fastnesses.
	The toil and labor consequent upon such long
and tedious journeyings, and the many difficul-
ties and trials which are incidental to pioneer
life have been shared by the mothers and
daughters equally with the fathers and sons.
Realizing this fact and having the utmost con-
fidenee in the integrity and capacity of women
for the public good, the Legislature of Utah
gave woman the suffrage. Believing it
would be for the best interests of all, and that
woman's intelligence would thus be brought in-
to exercise for the benefit of all. Again and
again have the liberal party sought to wrest the
ballot from the women of this Territory, but
their repeated attempts have each time signally
failed. No doubt this last will be as futile as the
others. It is strange considering how anxious
the liberal party were, previous to the last elec-
tion, to obtain the votes of "Mormon" women
that they should so soon seek to deprive them
of the ballot. Had they cast their votes for the
"Liberal" candidate he might have proved him-
self more "Liberal." Alas for the frailty of the
liberal party, who promised so much for woman
in her "down-trodden condition," and now seek
to deprive her of that which gives her political
independence and prestige. What a pity it is
to be sure that all the democratic candidates
who have been beaten by republican votes can-
not appeal to Congress to disfranchise republi-
cans! It would be quite as just, as for the lib-
erals to cheat the women of Utah out of their

[Column 2]
political privileges; but possession is nine points
of the law, the old adage saith, and the women
of Utah have the suffrage and it will be a hard
matter to persuade Congress that any particular
benefit to the Territory can be derived by the
annuling of the act which granted woman the
right to vote, when even those Governors, who
have been most opposed to woman suffrage on
general principles could see no evil result arising
from its exercise in this Territory.
	However, if the liberal party push women to
the wall in the political struggle as they seem
determined to do, they will not achieve the ob-
ject of their ambition, and will most assuredly
get the ill will of all women everywhere who
are demanding political recognition. In these
mountain vales there are hosts of young men,
as well as old, who are by every right of birth
and intelligence entitled to citizenship, who will
uphold the Constitution of the United States
and stand by the flag even under difficulties, and
they will always out vote such men as are now
trying to get Congress to take from the women
of Utah that privilege which they hold most
sacred; and have exercised for twelve years con-
tinuously with the most satisfactory results to
all parties concerned, except a few dissatisfied
office seekers, who are striving to build them-
selves up at the expense of the territorial treas-
ury, and not by the will of the whole people,
but the desire to rule by right of might, taking
advantage of the prejudices of the people
against the "Mormons," and resorting to all
sorts of trickery to carry on the campaign. But
this move to disfranchise women is in keep-
ing with the entire proceedings of the "liberals,"
and is only one more outrage perpetrated in the
interest of a few who desire to arrogate to them-
selves the control of this little portion of terri-
tory, and to oppress the rightful owners of the
soil and the pioneers of the desert, who have
done the hard work of searching out settlements
have built the roads and bridges, made peace
with the red man and destroyed the wild
beasts and reptiles, until it was easy for others
to come here and acquire wealth and position.
The fortitude and endurance of the early set-
tlers of these valleys is deserving the recollec-
tion and gratitude of posterity. Those who par-
ticipated in the hardships and endured the pri-
vations incident to settling this country, know
well how to appreciate the blessings of prosper-
ity that have followed their untiring exertions;
and are certainly the best guardians of their
own freedom and the public welfare, and will not
surrender the fort for any political whim or in-
trigue, not while they have God and right on
their side.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 133


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTERS PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL and Zina
D. H. Young attended the Conference of the
Relief Societies of Davis Stake, held at Centre-
ville, Friday, January 19th. Mrs. Nancy A.
Clark, presiding.

	IN the notice of the death of Sister Artemisia
Snow published Dec. 1, issue of our paper, a ty-
pographical error occurs, which we feel it a duty
to correct. The mistake is in her age. Sister
Snow was born in 1819, and not in 1810, as be-
fore published.

	WE have received, by courtesy of friends in
Washington, several copies of the "Evening
Critic" and "Washington Post," containing full
accounts of the N. W. S. A. Convention recent-
ly held in that city, and the resolutions adopted
during its session, from which we expect to
make some selections for our next paper, as they
came too late for this issue.

	THE entertainment in the Twentieth Ward


Schoolhouse on Thursday evening, January 25,
was, we understand, a most enjoyable affair.
The Institute finished, on that day, the first de-
cade. Speeches were made, songs, recitations
and brief lectures given; some sweet music was
rendered and a manuscript paper, "The Index,"
was read. After the exercises the guests par-
took of refreshments and the whole was followed
with dancing. The house was crowded, invita-
tions having been given to many outside the
Ward. We acknowledge with pleasure the in-
vitation extended to us, but were not able to at-
tend on account of a previous engagement.

	ON Friday, January 19th, the first annual
meeting of the Seventh Ward Primary Associa-
tion, of this city, was held in the Ward Meeting
House, Mrs. Minnie H. James, presiding. Bishop
Thorne and Counselor McLachlan were pres-
ent, Mrs. M. A. Needham, President of the
Relief Society, and other members of the Ward.
The annual report and treasurer's report were
read by the secretary, which showed the Asso-
ciation to be in a prosperous condition. The in-
crease in numbers during the year had been 41;
decrease, 14. The exercises were excellently
well rendered, and the selections were in good
taste. The first was a song by Miss Minnie
Funk; next, "Nearer my God to Thee," by six
little girls; recitiation, Master Samuel Andrews;
dialogue by seven little girls, about a bonnet;
recitation by Master Leo Foster; dialogue by
three little boys and one girl, on smoking; song,
Miss Mary Alice Woodbury; recitation, Miss
Lizzie James; organ solo by Miss Alice Lambert
finished the programme. During the year past,
one of the Counselors, Mrs. Jane James, had
been removed by death, and the Primary has
increased in numbers so that it was thought ad-
visable to appoint two more Counselors to assist
the President in her labor of love. Two Sisters
had been selected and Sister Eliza R. S. Smith
officiated in the nominating and Mrs. Maggie W.
Young and Mrs. Louie Woodbury were unani-
mously sustained as Counselors to aid Sisters
James and Broadbent in the work in which they
have been so efficiently laboring the past year.
Brief addresses were made by Sisters Eliza R. S.
Smith, Louie Felt, Ellen C. Clawson, and E. B.
Wells. Bishop Thorne made a few remarks ex-
pressing his pleasure, and Counselor McLach-
lan pronounced the benediction. This Primary
is one of the best conducted we have ever
visited.


A HAPPY EVENT.

	A very pleasant party was given in the Lion
House parlor on Thursday evening, January
25th, in honor of Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith and
Zina D. H. Young. Sister Eliza, as she is af-
fectionately entitled, was seventy-nine on Sun-
day, January 21, and Sister Zina, whose name is
also a household word, was sixty-two on Wednes-
day, January 31st. The committee arranged to
make the party a conjoint affair as the ladies
have been so closely associated in their labors
among the people, and also in family relation-
ships. There were about eighty persons as-
sembled and all seemed to enjoy themselves in
conversation with each other and congratula-
tions of the honored ladies were in order. One
of the committee read some letters from friends
who were unavoidably absent, and a poem which
had been written for the occasion by Augusta
Joyce Crocheron.
	Mrs. Zina Y. Williams, in a most graceful
manner, in behalf of the ladies, presented Sister
Eliza with a handsome silk cloak, accompanied
by a pretty little speech in which she included
the remarks made when the woman of Sa-
maria poured the precious ointment upon the


head of the Savior, and the people remonstrated
saying, this ointment might have been sold and
the money given to the poor, but Jesus reproved
them, and said, "the poor ye have always with
you, but me ye have not always"—Zina said,
"the poor we have always, but Sister Eliza we
may not have always." Dr. Romania B. Pratt
next presented, with a few brief and well chosen
words, a writing desk and gold pen to Sister
Zina, in behalf of the ladies. Refreshments
were then served to all and conversation again
became general. About eight o'clock the com-
mittee called upon Elder F. D. Richards to
speak; he was followed by President Taylor who
in the course of his remarks, related a conversa-
tion he had just had with a member of the
British Parliament in regard to Utah. The
other speakers were Counselor D. H. Wells,
Bishop L. W. Hardy, Sisters Eliza R. and Zina
D., Sister Jane S. Richards, of Ogden, Sisters
Presendia L. Kimball and M. Isabella Horne.
Elder George Goddard sang, "Who's on the
Lord's side," and Elder C. W. Penrose dismissed
with prayer. The sentiments of those who
spoke were in accordance with the spirit of love
and good feeling engendered by the pure prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and the congratulations
were sincere and fervent. Long may these
mothers in Israel live to do good and minister to
the daughters of Zion.


134	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with deep regret and feelings of sorrow that we
record the death of one of our most esteemed sisters,
Mary Katerina Barker, who departed this life on Janu-
ary 6th, 1883, at her home in Mound's Fort, near Ogden,
after a long and painful sickness, caused by an inward
tumor.
	The deceased was the daughter of John D. and Pauline
Malan, and was born in the valley of Luzerna, Province
of Pinerolo, Piedmont, Italy, July 10th, 1829. She was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, in her native town, in 1853, by George D. Kea-
ton. In 1855, she left her native land, crossed the Alps,
and from Liverpool set sail for America on the "Juven-
ta," with seven hundred Saints on board; landed in Phil-
adelphia, May 5th, travelled by way of Pittsburg and
Atchison, arrived at Mormon Grove on the 25th of May,
and on October 28th of the same year arrived at Salt
Lake City, whence she immediately removed to Ogden,
where she has since resided. She was the wife of James
Barker, who died last June.
	Shortly before reaching Mormon Grove, cholera broke
out among the traveling Saints. Hundreds fell by the
way. Young and old alike yielded to its remorseless
grasp. Sister Barker, with heroic fortitude, like an an-
gel of mercy, ministered to the sick and the dying,
and cared for the dead, while she comforted those that
mourned. In fulfilment of a promise pronounced upon
their heads, at Liverpool, by Apostle F. D. Richards, not
one of the family of which the deceased was a member
was attacked with the disease.
	Sister Barker was treasurer of the Mound Fort Relief
Society from 1874 to the time of her demise. Her house
was ever open for meetings and other duties of the So-
ciety. She was an earnest and indefatigable laborer in
the cause of woman; and has, since its first issue, sub-
scribed for the EXPONENT, the reading of which gave
her much pleasure and comfort during her sickness.
	Diligent and faithful in all her duties, kind and ben-
evolent to the poor, charitable to the erring, meek and
humble in spirit, exemplary in all the relations of life,
with an unfaltering faith in God and her religion, she
was beloved by all who knew her, and died in hope of a
glorious resurrection, to inherit eternal life in the man-
sions of the just.
	She leaves a family of two boys and four girls, and a
large circle of relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
					ANNIE TAYLOR, Prest. R. S.
					ANNIE D. TAYLOR, Secretary.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

BEAR LAKE.

	The Ninth Semi-Annual Conference of the

[Column 2]
Relief Societies of Bear Lake Stake was held
on Saturday and Sunday, January 13th and
14th, 1883, commencing Saturday, 10 a. m.
Sister Julia Lindsay, presiding.
	Singing. Prayer by President William
Budge. Singing.
	Minutes of last conference read by the sec-
retary, and approved. The different societies
were represented as follows: Paris, 1st Ward,.
by Counselor H. Rich; Paris, 2nd Ward, by
Prest. M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Prest. Carleson;
Montpelier, Prest. P. Hogenson; Bennington,
Prest. VanOrman; Bloomington, Prest. Green-
halgh; St. Charles, Prest. Jacobs; Fish Haven,
Prest. F. Howell; Liberty, George Town, Soda
Springs, Garden City, Meadowville, Lake Town
Randolph, Woodruff, and Saleratus Creek,
were not represented. A number of subjects
were treated upon by the different presidents,
and among the most important ones were those
of storing grain, building temples, and assisting
the Deseret Hospital. The reports were very
encouraging and showed that much good was
being done by the sisters.
	President Lindsay felt pleased with the re-
marks of the sisters. Alluded to the remarks
of President Carleson, who said she never called
upon the association for anything but that
she received it, and thought if we all could say
that we would soon become perfect.
	We should economize our time and spend it
in a way that will help others as well as our-
selves. Exhorted the sisters to attend their
meetings regularly that they might get the
spirit of the times, for they could not get it
without. We should not stay away because we
are afraid we will have to speak, we must
make a beginning, commence at the foot of
the ladder as it were, and ascend.
	As the Logan Temple was nearly completed,
would like to send what means could be brought
together to be donated to the Deseret Hospital.
	Showed the necessity of storing grain and of
building granaries so that it could be taken
care of. We are called upon by our Heavenly
Father to renew our energies, let us all try to
do so to the best of our abilities.
	Counselor Maria Rich felt to rejoice in the
things the Lord had blessed us with. Had been
quite ill for the past year, but had prayed
earnestly for health and her desires had been
granted. Spoke of some of her experience in
the early settlement of this country and of the
many trials she had passed through, but knew
that the Lord would help those who tried to do
good. We should speak cheering words to our
sisters, comfort the distressed and do the will of
our Heavenly Father and keep his command-
ments.
	Counselor E. Collings felt thankful that
we could meet together in peace and worship
the Lord according to the dictates of our con-
sciences. He had blessed us exceedingly since
we had been here. Compare our condition
with what it was a few years ago and then ask
ourselves if we ought not to comply with the re-
quirements of our Heavenly Father? I think we
should, but some of us are neglectful of our du-
ties. If we have done anything wrong we
must repent now and serve God more faithfully
in the future.
	The afternoon was occupied by the Y. L. M.
I. A.
	Sunday, 10 a. m. Sister J. P. Lindsay pre-
siding. Singing. Prayer by Bishop Price.
Singing.
	President M. Innis then represented Paris,
1st Ward, she not being present on Saturday
morning.
	Counselor E. Collings encouraged the sisters
to attend the meetings. We must watch our-
selves and reform in all our evil ways. There
is plenty of room for improvement, and there is
no time for us to look at the imperfections
of others. It is not pleasing in he sight of
our Heavenly Father that we spend so much

[Column 3]
time in dress when we can use it to so much
better advantage.
	The statistical and financial report and the
reports from the diffrent societies were then
read by the secretary.
	Prest. Lindsay was pleased to see so many at
meeting, and glad to see that the brethren had
confidence in their labors, and knew that they
had by their attendance at the meetings, and
by their encouraging remarks. It was right to
have written as well as verbal reports at our con-
ferences, and hoped the people would exercise a
little patience.
	We believe in revelation and should feel
thankful that the Lord has condescended to
speak to us at this time and in such a kindly
manner.
	Had felt somewhat uneasy on account of the
pride that was creeping in among the Latter-day
Saints, and said we must be wise in the way we
use our time and spend it to the glory of God.
We should not let our minds be taken up so
much with the things of this world. The
Lord looks at the heart, not at the clothes. We
must get rid of classification and distinction
and lay up treasures for the next world.
Don't send your means to the States for
cheap literature and give it to our children to
read. We must have the Spirit of the Lord
in our hearts at all times, and be very watch-
ful, as it takes but very little to grieve that
Spirit. Alluded to the revelation that had
lately been given to President Taylor and ex-
horted the sisters to assist their husbands to set
their families in order, as they could do much
in that direction. We should be determined
by the help of our Heavenly Father to do bet-
ter this year than we have ever done before.
	Keep your small children in the house in
the evening where you can look after them and
see that your daughters keep good company.
	Advised the young ladies to attend their
meetings, gain all the instructions they could
that they might be able to train their children
in an acceptable way before God.
	President Budge made a few remarks about
sustaining the officers of the Relief Societies,
and said it wss the privilege of any who did
not feel willing to sustain them with their faith
and prayers to make their objections.
	The Stake Presidency, secretaries and treas-
urers and presidents and counselors of the var-
ious associations were then sustained by the
vote of the people.
	President Budge trusted that the faith and
prayers of the Saints would be exercised in his
behalf, that what he might say might be bene-
ficial to all. Had been pleased and edified by
the remarks of the sisters, they were calcu-
lated to make us think, and to be profitable to
us after we leave this assembly. Alluded to
the remarks of Sister Lindsay about partak-
ing of the influences of the Gentiles. The
Lord said "Come out of her (Babylon), O my
people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and
that ye receive not of her plagues." What
benefit would our gathering be if we brought
with us the spirit and habits of the Gentiles?
Evils exist among us and it is necessary that
they should be corrected. We should give
our thoughts to better things, the instructions
we receive will strengthen us in our endeavors.
We say we thank God for these instructions
and for Apostles and Prophets, and should we
not be prepared to receive their words. Let
us endeavor to turn aside from all that is
not right, and serve God more closely in the
future. I believe that this feeling exists
among the people. Some of us indulge in the
use of tobacco, strong drink, tea and coffee,
and we ought to leave off these habits, as God
says they are not good. Besides the immediate
evils that directly effect us, as the results of
such practices, we become slaves to our appe-
tites. This is not right, Latter-day Saints
should be free in every respect to serve God.


We must be free, and a man who drinks is not
free but is enslaved by that power. Spoke of
the influence cheap literature had upon the
mind. We want to live by the light, power
and knowledge of God. His work will grow
and increase until it fills the whole world.
There is no prospect for the wicked, or hope
of them ever being able to overcome this work.
Singing. Benediction by Prest. James H.
Hart.
 The afternoon was occupied by the Primary
Associations.
 Statistical and Financial Report of the
Relief Societies of the Bear Lake Stake of
Zion, for the six months ending December 31,
1882.
 Statistical:	Teachers,	133;	members, 481;
total offlcers and members, 637; meetings held,
94; average attendance, 236; Church papers,
198; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 35.
Financial: On hand at date of last report,
cash, $88.75;  property, $646.81; wheat, 342
bushels, 55 pounds. Receipts: Cash, $286.94;
property, $68.89; wheat, 24 bushels, 55 pounds.
Dispursements: To the needy, cash, $43.48;
property, $31,94; to the Temple, cash, $281.57;
property, $13.15. To home industries, cash,
$54.55; property, $6,82; to books, cash, $4.50;
missionary, cash, $13.00; building, cash, $21.65;
property, $4.00.
 On hand: Cash, $161,70; property, $1257,70;
wheat, 759 bushels, 3 pounds.
ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Secretary.
JULIA BUDGE, Assistant Secretary, R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS.

FROM MRS. SARAH JOSEPHA HALE’S RECORD
OF ILLUSTRIOUS WOMEN. PUBLISHED, 1853.
	Victoria, Queen of England, was crowned
oix the 28th of June, 1838. From that time
onward, there has been no diminution in her
zeal; every duty devolving on her, every form
prescribed, every custom held important in the
old and cumbrous British government she has
performed, observed, and cherished. She has
been the model of female royalty. But this
is a trifling matter, compared with the salutary
influence her high principles, refined taste, and
graceful propriety of manners have wielded over
those who give tone to fashionable society in
England. Vice and folly retire abashed from
her presence.
      Great Britain is governed by laws, but the
ruler is not amenable to the laws. Hence
the importance that the sovereign should show
obedience to the laws of God, from which the
morality of all Christian codes is educed.
With wickedness on the throne, pollution in
the palace, infidelity at the head of the church,
how can the nation increase in piety, virtue
and goodness? The great blessing of a female
reign is in its purity of court morals and its
decorum of manners. These strengthen the
religious elements of human nature and give
soul the supremacy over sense.
	This example of strict virtue on the British
throne was imperatively needed; hence the
great blessing conferred by the reign of
Victoria, who is, in her private life a model
for her people. (Just here, in a footnote, Mrs.
Hale says: “Queens have excelled kings in ad-
ministration of civil government, not from
superior powers of reason, but from a clearer
moral sense. Isabella I, was the greatest
and noblest ruler who has governed Spain be-
cause she faithfully sought to do right.
Theresa Maria, with a very limited education,
was the wisest and best ruler who has held
sway over the Germanic Empire, because she
labored for the good of those she governed,
not for her own personal indulgences. Eliza-
beth was the most able ruler of men and the
most watchful for the welfare of her subjects
who had ever filled the British throne, because
she governed as the mother, not as the op-
pressor of her people. Compare the glories
and  prosperity of her reign with that which
preceded and that which followed. No won-
der the British people rejoice when the sceptre
passes into the hands of a woman,”)
	Now to return to her description of Victoria:
She finds time for all she wishes to do, and the
means from her allowed income. She is never
in debt. She is liberal in her charities, and,
from her own private purse has pensioned
many deserving persons, including many
literary ladies  of England.
	Compare Victoria’s character and conduct
since she came to the throne with the best
sovereign of her royal line. The Georges I
and II were hardly above the brutes; we would
not bring this excellent queen into comparison
with such men. Nor with George IV, the
profligate sensualist, who disgraced the title of
“gentleman;” nor with William IV.
	But we will take him who has been vaunted
as the good king, George III. He was narrow
minded, cruel and selfish. It is notorious that
he delighted in signing death warrants, and
never would grant a pardon to the condemned
unless driven by the greatest importunities.
Victoria pardons even against the remon-
strances of her advisers; and so painful to her
is the signature of her name to the death
penalty that she has been relieved from the
duty, though the delight of the pardoning
power she holds firmly.
	Of the manner in which their respective sen-
timents of honor and honesty contrast, the
following, from the pen of an English gentle-
man, will, testify: “Frederick, Prince of Wales,
father of George III, died considerably in debt,
of which his son, such as he was, never paid a
farthing. So much for George III, as a son;
let us look at him as a father. No sooner was
George, Prince of Wales, (afterwards George
IV) born, than his father laid hands on the
Duchy of Cornwall and all other property
to which his son was entitled, appropriated
the rents and profits thereof to his own use,
and never accounted to the latter for any part
of them whatever (as he was bound to do on
hiss son’s coming of age), but sent the son to
Parliament for the payment of his debts!”
	How different the conduct of Victoria!
With an income of not more than half the
amount of that possessed by her grandfather,
George III, her almost first act on coming to
the throne was to pay her father’s (the Duke
of Kent’s) debts out of her own privy purse;
and on the birth of her son, (the Prince of
Wales) she had his Duchy and other property
put into the hands of responsible commission-
ers to be protected and made the most of for
him till he was of age. It is impossible to
study carefully the manifestations of character
in the sexes, without seeing on every side
proofs of the superior moral endowments of
the female. Woman is the conservator of
truth and purity; the first teacher and best
example of the Christian virtues. When
God, by whom "kings reign,” exalts woman to
the government of a great kingdom, we are
led to believe it is for the purpose of promot-
-ing the best interests of virtue, religion, and
social happiness. There was never a time when
moral power might be so effectively and glorious-
ly employed as at the present.  The emtire phsy-
ical force is crumbling into ruins. It is fitting
that, the reign of feeling and intellect, of in-
dustry and peace, should be ushered in by
woman!
[Copied for the EXPONENT by E. S. D.]


The universities of Norway are now open to
women, and any Norwegian girl may strive for
the highest degrees that her country has to
offer as a reward for scholarship.


SCHOOL-ROOM CROWDING.

DIRECTOR BROWN'S DREAM.

	At the close of a March day, Dr. Toby was
returning from his round of visits. His pa-
tients that day were mostly children. Scarlet
fever, measles, diphtheria, ophthalmia in var-
ious forms, had taxed his skill and touched
his sympathies. His way lay past Brown's,
and he determined to call. He hoped to hear
Brown's lively comments on the events of the
day, and so succeed in driving away the re-
collections of the scenes of suffering he had
witnessed—scenes doubly distressing to him
because he believed them to be in a great
measure preventable.
	Contrary to expectation, he found Brown
taciturn, sober, blue. He rallied him on his
gloominess, when Brown exclaimed: "Now,
doctor, I know you'll laugh, and tell me to
avoid late suppers; but the fact is, I have had
a dream, and cannot shake off the impression
it has made. It has set me thinking," and
Brown thrust his hands in his pockets, dropped
his chin upon his chest and gazed steadily at
the fire in the grate.
	"It wants an hour to dinner, and I have no
engagement, so let me hear the wonderful
dream," said the doctor.
	Brown seized the poker, stirred the fire un-
til it glowed, and thus began:
	"It seemed that I stood before the gates of
the Golden City and knocked for admission.
A voice cried out, 'Who's there?' 'Brown,'
said I. 'Too indefinite and the form of St.
Peter appeared above the gate with a large
book in his hand, in which he seemed to
search. 'Occupation?' he asked. 'Merchant,'
I replied. 'Brown—merchant,' said the good
saint, running his finger down the page; 'Not
here;' and he seemed about to close the book.
'School trustee,' I added, in a hesitating tone.
He turned again to the book. Running his
finger down the page, he said, 'Brown, trustee
of P.S. No. 505.' 'That's it,' said I, sudden-
ly brightening up, for if my name was there,
I thought I had only to walk to the cashier's
desk and draw my dividend. 'Well! what
good have you done down there?' said the
saint, nodding in the direction of the world.
This dampened my ardor. I remembered that
I had received, on one occasion, three votes for
deacon of onr church; that I was a director in
a horse railroad; that I put my name on to all
subscription papers presented; but none of
these seemed to suit the atmosphere of the
country in which I was, and so I ventured to
say that I had a school-house built in my
ward.
	"The good saint, who had been gazing in-
tently upon a group of children playing on the
sunny bank, suddenly turned to me and said :
'What kind of one ?' I wished that I had had
with me some of the plans we have in our
board. They look so fine upon paper, and so
much like a rope-walk, or tenement house,
when put into brick and mortar. I described
P. S. No. 505 to the best of my ability.
'Nothing like it in these parts,' said he; 'how
many do you put in a school?' 'That depends,'
said I. 'Depends on what?' said he, in a tone
of voice that made my knees tremble. 'Upon
how many want to come,' I replied. 'What
do you do when the rooms are full?' he then
asked. 'Make additional ones out of the play
rooms,' I answered. 'Where do the children
then play?' he inquired, in a tone I did'nt like;
but I plucked up courage and answered, 'They
don't come to school to play but to learn.' I
said this all the bolder because it wasn't
original with me.
	" 'When these are full, what do you do then?'
he asked, in a tone that indicated that he
thought he had me cornered. 'Put them in
wardrobes, and under the stairs,' I said quite


[Column 1]
﻿readily. ‘What then?’ said he, with a stern-
ness that made me wish I hadn’t been quite so
fluent with my answers. ‘Put them in church
basements;' and I emphasized the word church,
hoping to turn his thoughts from school houses,
that are used five days in the week, to churches
that are used but one day in the week. But I
didn’t succeed. ‘What then?’ said he, impa-
tiently. ‘We promote and fill up again.’ The
good saint made a gesture of despair. ‘What
kind of teachers do you give these little ones,
crowded into dark basements, huddled into
wardrobes, stifled under stairways? Good
ones, I hope; those with judgment and exper-
ience, and full of love for them.’
	“I was sorry that he touched on this subject,
for I thought he would pardon my sins in the
school-houses, as I was but one out of many;
but in the matter of teachers I feared that I
had not so much to plead in excuse, so I an-
swered: 'Your reverence, when I go to Boston
and am asked this question, I say yes; but as
your city doesn’t lie in that latitude, I might
as well confess that I do no such thing. I put
in young girls sixteen years of age, who can’t
define judgment, much less possess it; with no
experience; pupils themselves yesterday, teach-
ers to-day, with the destinies of eighty or a
hundred little children in their hands; heads
so filled with balls, parties, and novels, that
there is little room for love of children—these
are they to whom I commit the children in
dark basements, crowded wardrobes, and stifled
closets!” and, doctor, I dared not look the
good saint in the face, but stood with bowed
head before him. Presently he said, ‘Look!’
I looked, and beheld a great multitude of
children whom no man could number, sporting
on the plains of the Golden City. ‘There are
they whom scarlet fever, diphtheria, pneumonia,
have taken from your ill-ventilated, fever-
breeding school-rooms, under the charge of
children themselves. Think of how many
desolated homes, blighted hopes, those children
represent. There was a crash, the golden gate
vanished, and in letters of fire I read these
words: ‘Inasmuch as ye did it not unto the
the least of these, ye did it not unto me.’
	There was silence for some moments, broken
at last by the doctor, who said: “You have
seen the children released from their bodily
sufferings; I to-day have seen them writhing
under their pains. Ill-ventilated and over-
crowded school-rooms are the remote causes of
a large amount of this suffering. Both public
and private schools are equally guilty. We [--]
wonder at the stupidity of our fathers, who
provided seats without backs for their children,
but gave them plenty of fresh air and of room.
Posterity will condemn us, who provide com-
fortable seats, and deprive our children of air
and of room. Your plan of putting six or
eight children on a bench, so closely seated
that they can hardly move, is horrible. Itch,
lice, and sore eyes travel along the whole line.”
	“No such children are allowed in my school,”
said Brown.
	“Nothing but a minute daily examination
can determine that,” continued the doctor.
	“And have your young and inexperienced
teachers, who, with a fatal blindness, are
placed over them, the time, tact, and judgment
to make this examination?” Brown did not
reply, and the doctor went on. “As a citizen
of this commonwealth, each child has a right
to his individuality; to a separate and distinct
seat, to at.least six square feet of space, over
which he is master and for which he is respon-
sible. Citizens of a republic can be made in
no other way. All this abominable arrange-
ment of settees, galleries and extra seats, must
be relegated to the dark ages.”
“Doctor, you are crazy. On this plan P. S.
505, with its two thousand pupils, would be-
come a one horse affair of about five hundred,”
said Brown; "and from being chairman of the

[Column 2]
first school in the city, I should come down to
the level of Jones, who is chairman of a little
primary in the suburbs. I never would con-
sent to that. A Frenchman, in my presence,
boasted of his famous schools, with a beggarly
two or three hundred. When I told him mine
had over two thousand, you should have seen
him open his eyes. Think of the cost. Four
schools to do the work of P. S. No. 505.
	“Not all the work, Brown,” replied the doc-
tor; “they couldn’t fill the cemetery so fast.
There is money for jails, almshouses, and pri-
sons, when over crowded—why not for schools?”
	“We don’t get half of the money now for
which we ask,” objected Brown.
	“If the class is full, refuse them,” answered
the doctor; “refuse them in justice to those
already there, in justice to themselves.”
	“But is not a half a loaf better than no
bread?” queried Brown.
	“Not if the half offered contain the seeds of
ill-health and premature decay,” said the doc-
tor.
	Brown said nothing, and the doctor con-
tinued: “Medical men have written volumes
upon the evils of over-crowding the schools.
Again and again have they demonstrated the
least space a child should have; the lasting
evils of foul-air, the eye-destroying power of
ill-arranged barracks are continually repeated.
We cannot hold our own with the schools of
other nations, unless there be great improve-
ment, both in their physical and mental con-
ditions. The editors did not go through the
great Exposition with their eyer shut. With
our wonderful physical and mechanical pros-
perity our schools have not been keeping pace.
In the next ten years the press will hold every
school trustee to a strict account of his steward-
ship. Brown take a step in advance to better
the physical condition of P. S. No. 505. Re-
duce your grammar classes to forty pupils,
your primary classes to fifty, give each pupil
a separate desk, put over him a man or a
woman for a teacher, not a girl who still ought
to be in the academic class or normal school;
and then, when you approach, in reality, the
gate of the Golden City, no pupil of P. S. No.
505 will be there to accuse you of crowding
him out of life.”
 “Toby, there’s my hand; I’ll do it!” said
Brown; and the good doctor went home with
the happy consciousnes that the resolve meant
life and wealth to many a child, for Brown
was a man of his word.
 Gentlemen of the Education Boards in the
cities of our fair land, will you not follow
Brown’s example?—Sanitarian.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE DELEGATE.

	Hon. John T. Caine, Delegate from Utah,
took his seat in the House of Representatives,
Jan. 17, 1883, for the unexpired term of the
Forty-seventh Congress. Following are the
particulars as published in the Congressional
Record of the 18th January:

	Mr. Pettibone.—"Mr. Speaker: I rise to
make a privileged motion. I am authorized
by the Committee on Elections to report to the
House in the matter of the application of Mr.
John T. Caine to be admitted to a seat for the
unexpired term of the present Congress as a
Delegate from the Territory of Utah, that the
committee, having had the same under consid-
eration, have unanimously adopted the resolu-
tion with which their report concludes, and
which resolution I ask the Clerk to read."
	The Speaker.—"The resolution will be read."
	The Clerk read as follows:
	Resolved, That John T. Caine was duly elect-
ed as a Delegate to Congress from the Terri-
tory of Utah for the unexpired term of the
Forty-seventh Congress, and is entitled to the
seat as such Delegate.


The Speaker.—“The question is upon agree-
ing to the resolution.”
	The resolution was agreed to.
	Mr. Pettibone.—“If there is no objection, I
now ask consent that Mr. Caine be sworn in.”
There was no objection.
Mr. Caine, then appearing before the bar of
the House, was duly qualified, taking the oath
prescribed by Section 1756 of the Revised
Statutes.


KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper’s.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc.  Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D,
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence
AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent’s Clothing and . ’
Carpets, Ladies’ and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSAS WANTED
			S. P. TEASDEL.
Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linsoys,	Cassimers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc., Etc.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
---HAVE---
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STOHE. Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.
DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
H. DENWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND BET AIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
-AND-
BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


[handwritten] Pratt

WOMEN'S ﻿EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1883.	No. 18.


THERE’S NO RETREATING.

	“What shall one then answer the messesgers of the
Nation? That the Lord hath founded Zion, and the
poor of His people shall trust in it.”—ISAIAH.

What shall the slander’d and scorn’d, reply—
	To th’ messengers sent by th’ Nation?
To straiten the Saints of the Lord most high—
To hamper the honest, they know not why—
Except to quiet their hue and cry
	Who deem us a sore vexation.

Not ours the right, ’gainst the Lord to fight,
	To censure His vast (?) assurance—
For founding a Kingdom in these last days—
For building it up by peculiar ways 
Drawing the nations ireful gaze
And testing the Saints endurance.

In His judgment just, we needs must trust
	Who is surely a friend to the lowly;
Patience! is needful as Faith and Love,
"How long?” is echo’d in courts above;
The Lord is waiting His own to prove— 
To see if we’ll trust Him wholly.

“As the hungry and thirsty, of feasting, dream,
	And to weakness and want, awaken”—
So the foes of truth! though they powerful seem,
Shall wake to confusion; for One, Supreme—
In His own due time, will the pure redeem—
	Tho’ heaven and earth be shaken.

Kingdoms will totter, and thrones decay—
	Like crumbling seeds, so rotten;
And Zion's oppressors (a dread array)
Shall dwindle to nothing, or pass away;
Wherefore, should Zion be sad, or say—
	God hath his own forgotten?

Forth to the rescue! “The Lord of Hosts”
	From His covert will come, like the lion!
Fiercer by far, in His anger, grand!
Woe to the powers, who His will withstand;
Ye shall know, Oh Chiefs! of this chosen land—
	“That the Lord hath founded Zion.”

And this Is the answer, that far and wide—
	Wo send to the nations, greeting;
Zion! "The pure of heart” must’bide—
The law of the Highest, her King, her Guide;
Tho’ even as gold, she may still be tried,
	For the true, there’s no retreating.
			EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, February, 1883.


[Column 1]
PLEASANT REMINISCENCES.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	I intended the following little episode for a
New Year's greeting, but before finished I fell
ill, and have since had no energy for anything
but to nurse and take care of No. 1, which in-
deed is a duty we owe, not only to ourselves,
but to Him who has blest us with that most
inestimable blessing, good health. But to-day
I find myself, as it were, mechanically seated
at my writing table, and so, dear Editor, with
your assent I proceed to put this little article
into a tangible form for the columns of
the EXPONENT.
	1882 has passed away, another year added
to the Eternal Pile! Christmas has come and
gone; it brought with it its thousand whisper-
ings of the past; when young life was around
and about us, and all were so really happy and
joyous; Christmas has over produced wonderful
times and seasons—both in religious observ-
ances and in hilarious rejoicings, wonderful
re-union of families long separated, again

[Column 2]
they meet in one unbroken chain, probably
never so to meet again on earth; but the
present is before them, and they ignore all
clouds that would presume to throw over
them the least shadow of gloom. It is a sea-
son of delights. Parents, grand-parents and
children, are one in love of the holiest and the
brightest, there is scarcely a difference in feel-
ing and enjoyment, all are young for that day
at any rate; they are awakened in the morning
by the bells "ringing in" the day on which,

Hark! the herald angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King,

Who came to redeem the beautiful crea-
tion of His Father! This thought gives
a sacred limit, beyond which no one passes
in their joyous hilarity! I am writing
no fiction, but an actual experience! The
festivities of Christmas was to be my subject,
and 'tis to me a pleasing one, and after three
decades of time, the very influence of those
happy times is around and about me; I es-
pecially see one, when a happy party had
filled the house from basement to attic from
Christmas to New Year; and at last it seemed
there came a lull—I saw eyes fixed on me,
enquiringly as the mental purveyor, and a
thought rushed impromtu into my mind, and
I exclaimed, "Suppose we all write to Mr.
Warren and get our characters?" Oh! it was
the richest thought of the season! Received
with clapping of hands, and a host of compli-
ments to dear mamma and aunt, what should
we do without her, etc. All sat down and
the matter was talked over in council, "How
shall we write? What shall we say?" etc.
I said, write freely, as if you were going to
write to me; either your own thoughts, or a
selection from your favorite author or poet.
(I would say in a parenthesis, Mr. Warren
was a gentleman who advertised to delineate
the character by the handwriting, and was
creating quite a sensation by the same.)
Soon each one was seated at desk or folio,
their whole soul absorbed in Mr. Warren and
what they were going to hear from him
through his prophetic proclivities. In due
time, and after an interregnum spent in pleas-
ing anticipation, a heavy mail arrived, and
O! the opening and the reading of these
wonderful letters! and O! the "characters!"
Certainly they were most interesting and
artistic, evidently written by a gentleman of
culture; all were pleased, and most were satis-
fied. I enclose two specimens of the bulk.
The lady to whom he first alluded was for a
time fairly posed, "Can it be true? Is it pos-
sible my hand indicates such a character?"
and such like exclamations, but I fearleesly
came to the rescue; for a sweeter, more woman-
ly character could not be; she was loving,
lovable, and ever beloved. I said, ‘No, Mary
dear, it has no likeness to your present charac-
ter, but I look back to you as a child, and I see
in you then the germs that might have ex-
panded into some such a character had you
unfortunately been a boy; I then playfully,
but truthfully drew a picture of her gay, joy-
ous, wild, almost reckless spirit in childhood,
recalling some of her juvenile exhibitions, etc.
She mused awhile, and then with the sweetest
candor she looked up at me and in the words
of Agrippa she said, "almost thou persuadest
me" that there may be truth in it! Now fol-
lows Mr. Warren's portrayal:
	"We wonder if nature eyer makes mistakes?

[Column 3]
If she does, we should feel inclined to move
for a writ of error in the present instance.
We must own ourselves fairly posed. One
who signs herself by the prettiest and most
euphonious of English female names, might
be expected to enlist some of the delicate
sensibility of Cowper's, or Burn's Mary; but
the applicant, whose writing is before us, ex-
hibits more of the heroic characteristics of
the celebrated "Maid of the Mill," than of
any other Mary we ever read of in history,
poetry, or romance; we repeat there must be a
mistake somewhere. Our judgment refuses to
ascribe, and our pen to assign any very
feminine qualities to Mary Smith. In th
name of all the Smiths at once (which is a
comprehensive an oath as can well be con-
ceived), what can we say to a lady the salient
points of whose character are all manly?
How shall we mention the headstrong cour-
age, bordering upon temerity, which we so
plainly discover? In what term shall we hint
at the strong dash of combativeness which
reveals itself to our critical inspection? Shall
we breathe our suspicions of her penchant for
horse-flesh? And her largely developed fox-
huntiveness? Mary Smith in a "pink" and
unexceptionable "tops," riding after the
hounds? Mary Smith on the 12th of August,
knee deep in heather, armed with a double-
barrel? Horace Smith, or Harry Smith we
could have understood, but the martial and
masculine Mary Smith is beyond our compre-
hensive senses, the most incongruous crowd
upon our mental vision; for the third time
therefore, we declare there must be some mis-
take about it. Our mysterious applicant must
pardon us, if she feels we have been shaken
from our propriety in the attempt to delineate
her autograph.					WARREN."
	One more character: "Let us at once pro-
ceed, without any preface or preliminary, to
chronicle our opinion of the fair and amiable
applicant who does us the honor of awaiting
our critical decree. We should be acting
most unjustifiably, if we either disparaged
by faint praise, or offended by a too flattering
portraiture, one who is, at the same time, so
candid and so deserving.The character we are
about to depict possesses in a high degree the
qualities of grace, wit, tact and tenderness.
Our applicant possesses very considerable
talent; it is under the control of sound judg-
ment, and is associated with much knowledge
and varied accomplishments. Liberality in
her case is exemplified, not only in acts of for-
mal charity, but in little quiet offices of kind-
ness, in efforts of zealous friendship, and in
her eagerness to put the best possible construc-
tion on the words and deeds of others. In
her cheerful moods the scintillations of her vi-
vacity are sometimes felt as well as seen; no-
thing, however, can be more unpremeditated
than such an effect, and if an occasional gust
of impatience ruffle the usually serene sur-
face of her mind, none are, at all events, more
free than she is from the sirrocco gales of an-
ger and malice; her tastes are elegant, and her
manners fascinating, and we scarcely know
what to wish amended in her character, except
it is a slight tendency to procrastination.

"To wish her kindlier is no need,
	More prudent, or more sprightly,
Or more ingenuous, or more freed
	From temper flaws unsightly."		WARREN.

Mr. Warren and his characters, of which


there were a lapful, and the comments they
called forth, made a very pleasing finale to
that most happy Christmas, and I will throw
no moralizing cloud over it, nor shall memory
do so either; and in looking back to that youth-
ful circle, I feel each one that comprised it
recalls it with the same pleasure as I do, and
realizes the blessed truth, that happiness once
given is “a joy forever.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
	MARTYDOM OF THE PROPHET
			AND PATRIARCH.
		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	On the 27th of the following September, five
hundred troops were marched into our city by
Governor Ford, pretending that they came for
the purpose of bringing the murderers of the
Prophet and Patriarch to justice. Having
previously plighted the faith of the state
that they, as prisoners, should be protected, he
could hardly do less, but the people looked
upon this as a vain and needless display; they
could read his heart and knew full well that
he was only feigning and that this was but
another exhibition of his hipocrisy. The same
day President Brigham Young recieved his
commission as Lieut.-General of the Nauvoo
Legion previously held by Joseph Smith. It
will be remembered that previous to his death
Governor Ford had disarmed the Nauvoo Le-
gion, which fact he was reminded of on
this day, while witnessing the review of the
Legion, as several of General Young's staff
appeared in uniform but without arms. Bro.
John Taylor was still lying very low from the
wounds received in Carthage jail.
	The private instructions to Lieut.-General 
Brigham Young accompanying the order is-
sued at Springfield, Oct. 9th, 1844, were not
calculated to allay, but on the contrary, to
excite the former suspicions of our people.
	The anti-Mormons were aware of the right-
eousness of our cause, having witnessed the
patient forbearance of a poor and persecuted
people under all their accumulated wrongs-a
little handful who had managed, through the
kindness of an all-merciful Father, to outlive
the dark and terrible scenes caused by their
cruel and barbarous treatment and drivings
in Missouri and then into Illinois. But they,
like our former persecutors, saw the advantage
that the "Mormons" had gained over them,
and they dreaded the power that we would
hold in that State if allowed to remain there
and enjoy our constitutional rights. And by
Jan. 1845, the vile plans concocted by those
sectarian demagogues and scheming politicians,
were carried into effect. Our city charter
and the charter of the Legion were repealed
by the Legislature--thus making outlaws of
a whole community of peaceable, law-loving
citizens of the United States of America--the
land of our birth. Yes, and a boasted land
of liberty and freedom, for the oppressed of
all nations. But the work of God still pro-
gressed. His Saints became more united, and
the work on the Temple went ahead with
greater speed than ever before, which caused
Satan to rage with  fury. The follow-
ing incident occurred in our family on the
29th of the same month, January, 1845. My
mother gave birth to her sixth son, Brigham
Willard; her health had greatly suffered in
consequence of the troubles. The great ex-
citement and anxiety of her mind, during the
scenes through which she had passed, being
too much for her feeble frame, she and her
babe were often times brought near to the
grave; but through mighty faith and the ad-
ministrations of the holy ordinances, their
lives were preserved.
	The trial of the men indicted by the

[Column 2]
grand jury for the murder of Joseph and
Hyrum Smith began at Carthage on the 7th
of May. The names of those men are familiar
to the Saints who were then living in that
part of the country. They were: Thomas C.
Sharp, editor of the Warsaw Signal; Col. Levi
Williams, a Baptist preacher; Jacob E. Davis,
Senator; Mark Aldrich and William N.
Grover.
	It is not my purpose to go into particulars
of their sham trial, as it has been published.
Suffice it to say that those assassins were
"honorably acquitted." But if they had been
"Mormon" criminals, there would have been
no mercy shown them, but would have met a
similar fate to Joseph and Hyrum. One of
the lawyers employed in defence of the mur-
derers said: "If the prisoners were guilty of
murder, then he himself was guilty. It was
the public opinion that the Smiths ought to
be killed, and public opinion made the laws;
consequently it was not murder to kill them!"
The following letter, written to Brigham
Young by the Attorney General of that State,
Josiah Lamborn, shows how intelligent and
honorable men viewed the course taken by the
members of that Legislature, and it will hit
not a few in this vicinity, as well as those at
a distance, who, through falsehood of the
blackest die, have instituted the present mode
of crusade only for the vile purpose of demoral-
izing and plundering their more virtuous,
honorable and industrious neighbors.
	He wrote: "I have always considered that
your enemies have been prompted by religious
and political prejudices and by a desire for
plnnder and blood, more than for the common
good. By the repeal of your charter, and by
refusing all amendments and modifications,
our Legislature has given a kind of sanction
to the barbarous manner in which you have
been treated. Your two representatives exert-
ed themselves to the extent of their ability
in your behalf, but the tide of popular passion
and frenzy was too strong to be resisted. It is
truly a melancholy spectacle to witness the
lawmakers of a sovereign State condescending
to pander to the vices, ignorance and malevo-
lence of a class of people who are at all times
ready for a riot, murder and rebellion. Your
Senator, Jacob E. Davis (one of the murder-
ers of Joseph and Hyrum), has done much to
poison the minds of members against anything
in your favor. He walks at large, in defiance
of law, an indicted murderer. If a Mormon
was in his position, the Senate would afford no
protection, but he would be dragged forth to
the jail or the gallows, or to be shot down by
a cowardly and brutal mob."
	Many (we admit) were the blind instruments
of apostates and a lawless, unprincipled clique,
and the same is true to-day; but they will shut
their eyes and their ears to the truth, little
realizing that they are striving against God
when trying to compel us to forsake His laws
and conform to theirs. Laws made by men
who are doubly dyed in the darkest pools of
corruption, and would profane and defile our
temples, that are being reared to His great
and Holy name, if they could, with all man-
ner of riot and revelling. This has been their
calculation, and to break us up, but they will
find, as have the rest, that this work was not
dependent upon Joseph Smith nor Brigham
Young, but that it is established no more to
be thrown down. Though many, through
various causes, have slackened in their faith
and fallen away, and some among us have
become puffed up in the pride of their hearts,
gold having become their God, duties and
covenants are set aside. But there are those,
and women too, who are as true as the Jewish
mother was who exhorted her seven sons to
be courageous, willing to suffer and to die if
needful, rather than deny or depart from
the laws of God, neither will they “submit to

[Column 3]
the tyranny to which Senator Edmunds pro-
poses to subject them," and we will say,
"Though the Lord be angry with us for a
little while, for our chastening and correction,
yet think not that our nation is forsaken of
God. But abide awhile, and behold His great
power, how He will torment thee and thy seed.”
	As James Arlington Bennett predicted of
the "Mormons" in 1842, in a letter to the New
York Herald: "They may kill one Prophet
and confine in chains half his followers, but
another will take his place, and the Mor-
mons will still go ahead. * * * Perse-
cute them, and you are sure to multiply them.
This is fully proved since the Missouri per-
secutions, as since that affair they have in-
creased one hundred fold. It is the best policy,
both for Missouri and Illinois, to let them
alone.” And we will say as he did, "Let
not the history of Daniel be forgotten."
	Though heavy clouds seemed to be lower-
ing over the devoted heads of the Saints,
looking at times very dark and threatening,
yet they could not prevent them from enjoying
the sunshine of peace, nor the bright hope
which rested down upon a loyal and God-fear-
ing people (whose consciences were void of
offence before Him and all the world) with
a brighter glow than they had ever before ex-
perienced. A material change was wrought
in society by the cleansing process which had
been going on, as much of the filth and scum
had passed off, giving still greater enjoyment
at our social gatherings. We had our con-
certs, assisted by the finest orchestra in the
west, and other innocent amusements, in
which the youth mingled with those of mature
years, and I can look back to them as some of
the happiest hours of my life.
	The dedication of the Seventies' Hall was
one of the most pleasant incidents in my recol-
lection. Commencing on the 25th of Septem-
ber, 1844, it was kept up for eight days--every
quorum meeting in regular order, accompan-
ied by members of their families, who pre-
pared "a feast of fat things," which was par-
taken of by all, including some of the Apostles,
the members of the Choir, and William Pitt's
band of music, who were in attendance each
day to sing the sweet songs of Zion, some of
which were composed for the occasion. For a
copy of several songs, composed and
sung on various occasions in our Nauvoo Con-
cert Hall, I am indebted to the kindness of
Sister Maria Burton, who, with her husband
R. T. Burton, were participaters in those
pleasant scenes, she being thoughtful enough
to preserve them, and which I think are well
worthy of a place in history.
	I here present the Hymn composed by
Parley P. Pratt for the dedication of the
Nauvoo Concert Hall, which came off Dec.
20, 1844.
		Truth is our theme, our joy, our song,
			How sweet Its numbers flow,
		All music's charms to truth belong,
			To truth ourselves we owe.

		'Twas truth that brought us from afar;
			'Twas truth that placed us here;
		Union and truth without a jar,
			Our Halls and Temples rear.

		'Twas truth first formed our band and choir
			On Zion's western plains;
		'Twas truth that tuned our earliest lyre
			In sweet harmonious strains.

		Sacred to truth this Hall shall be,
			While earth and time remains;
		Where the band and choir in harmony
			Shall sound their sweetest strains.

		By truth our union is complete,
			Our songs in concert rise,
		And by the power of truth we'll meet
			To sing amid the skies.

		Hosanah to the Prince of Peace,
			His truth has made us free;
		All hall the day of full release,
			The earths grand jubilee.
					[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 139﻿


FLOWERS.

The theme is old—yet what is new?
Millions have trod the path that you
And I to-day are struggling through.

Millions have lived through Spring's bright hours
Have gathered, too, its choicest flowers,
And dreamed beneath its fairy bowers.

Have toiled beneath the burning sun,
Have fallen ere the course was run,
Which with light hearts they had begun.

And sweet-toned voices borne the song
From age to age, from throng to throng,
Which millions more will still prolong.

And yet the song is just as dear,
As bright the dream, as sad the tear,
That meet us in our pathway here.

So I would sing of God's loved dower,
That cheers the heart with magic power,
The sweet, the lovely, smiling flower.

We might have lived without their light,
But would existence be as bright
Did they not beam upon the sight?

They smile amid the darkest doom,
They chase the shadows from the tomb,
And teach as hope amid its gloom.

In them the resurrection trace,
We see the dead to life give place,
In beauty and in matchless grace.

And to those flowers of the heart,
Kind words of love that ne'er depart,
And many a heavenly action start,

To you I sing; oh, never die,
But live as on the moments fly,
'Til in a song is lost the sigh.
									HOPE.


[Column 1]
A SHORT CHAT WITH MRS. SCOTT.

	"If ye were of the world the world would love
its own; but because you are not of the world, but
I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the
world hateth you."—Gospel of St. John, xv, 16.

	The above passage of Scripture will explain
the mystery why all eyes are turning with hor-
ror toward Utah. Now, this horror and scared
feeling is all imaginary, and only seen at a dis-
tance, for the Latter-day Saints are at peace
with each other and all the world. The "Mor-
mon creed" is to "Mind your own business,"
but because they are called out of the world,
therefore the world hate them and say all
manner of evil against them falsely, for the
Gospel's sake.
	You say you would like to know how the
Mormon women do feel. I will tell you, They
all know that they are honored wives and
mothers acknowledged in society, with their
children, and are happy in knowing their hus-
bands are true to their marriage covenant,
whether they have one wife or more. The
Lord, seeing the wickedness and corruption on
the earth, in his wisdom has revealed the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage, to purify society and
elevate woman from the degradation in which
man has placed her; and woe will be unto the
man that degrades woman, for she is a gift
from God. And I can positively assert that in
no place on the earth are chastity and virtue
in woman more honored and protected than
among the people called "Mormons."
	Now, we might be selfish and make a fuss
about our husbands taking other wives, if we
were of the world; but we are not of the
world, neither have we the spirit of the world,
but rejoice in the spirit of the Gospel, which
has made known unto us that these things are
true. I am honest to confess that nothing but
a sense of my duty to God, and a desire to
keep His command, could ever have induced
me to consent to my husband's taking more
wives, I have made the sacrifice willingly,

[Column 2]
and the Lord has blessed me abundantly with
joy and peace, which man can neither give nor
take away.
	I believe all you say with regard to the infi-
delity of husbands to their wives. There are
several cases of that kind in Salt Lake City; I
will mention one, my nearest neighbor, a Gen-
tile. He could strut around with his gold-
headed cane, drinking brandy, visiting houses
of prostitution, and moving in good society as
a gentleman, while his poor wife and children
were suffering for food and clothing, the "Mor-
mon" women administering to their wants.
Yet he would look with horror on his neighbor
who had more wives, and who provided for and
was true to them. Shame on such inconsis-
tencies! Oh, women of the world, can you be
happy under such treatment? I assure you
that the "Mormon" women need no sympathy
from Christendom, for they are happier in the
spirit of their religion than the women of the
world know how to be. Understanding the
noble mission of woman on the earth is to bear
the souls of men, and to obey the first com-
mand given to our first parents, to multiply
and replenish the earth, therefore they appre-
ciate their children, knowing, as Solomon, the
wise man has said, that they are "an heritage
from the Lord." The great promise made to
Abraham was, that to his posterity there should
be no end.
	Now, I will tell you some of our family se-
crets. The Lord has given to the Latter-day
Saints the sealing ordinance, whereby they are
married for time and eternity, husbands and
wives being united in the resurrection of the
just, to continue their family relations through-
out all eternity. How happifying the thought
that death will not separate us from our dear
one! Have the women of the world any such
assurance, when they are only married till
death doth them part? I am sincere in saying
I would not exchange places with any woman
in the world, nor give my knowledge and ex-
perience in Mormonism for all the wealth of
Christendom. While Congress is passing laws
against this people for imaginary evils, and
foster wickedness and crime in their own midst,
the "Mormons" will keep on in the even tenor
of their ways, realizing they are fighting
against God and His laws, and this nation will
have to pay the bill; for the Lord will protect
His people. Our Savior has said, "Blessed are
ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you, and say all manner of evil against you
falsely, for my sake; rejoice and be exceeding
glad, for great is your reward in heaven.
					M. ISABELLA HORNE.


[Column 1]

LIFE IS WHAT WE MAKE IT.

	To some this may appear to be a very singu-
lar, if not an extravagant statement.
	You look upon this life, and upon this world,
and you derive from them, it may be, a very
different impression. You see the earth, per-
haps, only as a collection of blind, obdurate,
inexorable elements and powers; you look upon
the mountains, that stand fast forever; you look
upon the seas, that roll upon every shore their
ceaseless tides; you walk through the the annual
round of the seasons; all things seem to be fixed
—Summer and Winter, seedtime and harvest,
growth and decay. And so they are.
	But does not the mind spread its own hue
over all these scenes? Does not the cheerful
person make a cheerful world? Does not the
sorrowing person make a gloomy world? Does
not every mind make its own world? Does it
not appear as if indeed a portion of the divin-
ity were imparted to it, almost creating the
scene around it? Its powers, in fact, scarcely
fall short of the peculiar theory of those phi-
losophers, who have supposed that the world
had no existence but in their own minds.

[Column2]

	So, again, with regard to human life. It
seems to many, probably, unconscious as they
are of the mental and moral powers which con-
trol it, as if it were made up of fixed condi-
tions and of immense and impassable distinc-
tions. But upon all conditions presses down
one impartial law—to all situations, to all for-
tunes, high or low, the mind gives their char-
acter; they are in effect not what they are in
themselves, but what they are to the feelings
of their possessors. The king upon his throne,
and amidst his court, may be a mean, degraded,
miserable man, a slave to ambition, to voluptu-
ousness, to fear, to every low passion. The
peasant in his cottage may be the real monarch
—the moral master of his fate, the free and
lofty being, more than a prince in happiness,
more than a king in honor. And shall the
mere names which these men bear blind us to
actual position which they occupy amidst God's
creation? No; beneath that all powerful law
of the heart, the master is often the slave, and
the slave the master.
	It is the same creation upon which the eyes
of the cheerful and the melancholy look, yet
how different are the aspects which it bears to
them. To the one it is all beauty and glad-
ness; the waves of the ocean roll in light, and
the mountains are covered with day. It seems
as if life went forth rejoicing upon every
bright wave and every shining bough shaken
in the breeze. It seems that there were more
than the eye seeth—a presence of deep joy
among the hills and valleys, and upon the
bright waters. But the gloomy one, stricken
and sad at heart, stands mournfully gazing at
the same scenes, and what is it to him? The
very light seems a leaden pall thrown over the
face of nature; all things wear a dull dim and
sickly aspect. The great train of the seasons
are passing before them, but they sigh and
turn away as though it was the train of a fu-
neral procession; and they wonder at the poetic
representations and sentimental rhapsodies that
are lavished upon a world so utterly misera-
ble.
	Here, then, are two different worlds in which
these two classes of beings live; yet they are
formed and made what they are out of the
very same material, only by different states of
mind in the beholders. The eye maketh that
which it looks upon, the ear maketh its own
melodies or discords, and the world without re-
flects the world within. Every disposition
and all behavior has a kind of magnetic attrac-
tion by which it draws to itself its like. Self-
ishness will hardly be a centre round which
the benevolent affections cling. The cold-
hearted may expect to be treated with coldness;
the proud with haughtiness; the passionate
with anger, and the violent with rudeness.
Those who forget the rights of others, need not
be surprised if their own are forgotten; and
those who forget their dignity, and who stoop
to the lowest embraces of sense, must not won-
der if others are not concerned to find their
prostrate honor and lift it up to the remem-
brances and respect of the world. To the gen-
tle, how many will be gentle; to the kind, how
many will be kind; how many does a loving
example win to goodness, how many does
meekness subdue to a like-manner, when they
come into its presence; how many does sanctity
purify, how many does it command to put away
all earthly defilements, when they step into its
presence. Yes, the good will find goodness in
the world, the person of honor will find honor,
and the person of principle will find princi-
ple af religious integrity in the hearts of
others. There are no blessings which the mind
may not convert into the bitterest evils, and
there are no trials which it may not transform
into the most noble and divine of blessings;
there are no temptations from which the
virtue they assail may not gain strength.
	H. C. NORTON, M. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, . . Editor.
Published semi-monthly. In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terns: One copy one year, S2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15, 1883.


[Column 1]
UTAH'S CLAIMS TO STATEHOOD.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON STATISTICS,
APPOINTED AT THE CONSTITU-
TIONAL CONVENTION.

[CONCLUDED.]

	There are 3, 000 miles of common roadways
in Utah; 1,006 miles of railroads, 205 miles of
which were constructed during the past year;
2,647 miles of telegraph wires, 600 miles of tele-
phone wires, with 560 instruments; the means
of swift communication are rapidly increasing,
and trade with surrounding States and Terri-
tories is promoted by the extension of rail-
roads through their domain or to the line of
their borders.
	The amount of business transacted in Utah
may be estimated from the following report of
freights received and forwarded over the Utah
Central Railroad for eleven and a half months,
in 1882: At Ogden Station—Received: Ore,
1,969,707 pounds; Bullion, 50,482,633 pounds;
Lead, 7,140,256 pounds; Copper Matte, 881,-
629 pounds; Grain, 3,325,615 pounds; Green
Fruit and Vegetables, 4,660,996 pounds; Dried
Fruit, 818,753 pounds; Wool and Hides, 2,275,-
341 pounds; Salt, 10,219,310 pounds; Merchan-
dise, 8,530,901. Forwarded: Merchandise, 37,-
264,449; Grain, 4,429,276 pounds: Coal, 105,113,-
650 pounds; Charcoal, 2,122,000 pounds; Coke,
49,251,135 pounds; Lumber, 29,707,705 pounds,
Building Material, 1,310,755 pounds; Fire Brick
and Clay, 933,595 pounds; Machinery, 1,089.
614 pounds; Agricultural Implements 1,693,
290 pounds; Wagons, 3,828,440 pounds;
Live Stock, 344,000 pounds; Railway Materi-
al, 23,109,990; Ore, 10,172,298 pounds; Iron,
Nails and Stoves, 5,613,715 pounds; Iron Ore,
2,154,870 pounds; Spelter, 80,120 pounds; Sand-
stone, 508,150 pounds; Sundries, 7,592,078.
At Salt Lake Station—Received: Coal, 115,-
356,385; Coke 41,314,005; Charcoal, 331,800;
Iron Ore, 30,587,000; Lumber 30,419,470; Build-
ing Material, 1,898,275; Granite Rock 10,817,-
465; Machinery, 1,200,873; Agricultural Imple-
ments, 1,525,573; Wagons, 3,242,515; Live Stock
477,950; Flour and Mill Stuff, 1,472,950; Grain
8,022,946; Hay, 542,957; Green Fruit and Veg-
etables, 2,351,122; Wool and Hides, 385,250;
Railway Material, 22,745,905; Iron, Nails and
Stoves, 5,768,892; Fire Clay and Brick, 1,775,164;
Merchandise, 35,339,939; Sundries, 6,760,940.
Forwarded: Flour and Mill Stuff, 170,260; Grain,
657,018; Green Fruit and Vegetables, 2,739,60[-];
Dried Fruit, 819,986; Wool and Hides, 2,032,-
062; Fire Clay and Brick, 1,803,795; Merchan-
dise, 21,051,601; Sundries, 1,302,643; Limestone,
59,908,005; Salt, 10,011,442.
	The educational status of Utah is much higher
than is generally supposed. Her ratio of illiter-
acy, according to the latest census, is much below
the average of the nation; the percentage of
children over ten years of age unable to read

[Column 2]
3.27, and to write 6.13, while the percentage of
the whole country is 9.82 unable to read, and
12.44 unable to write. In this educational re-
spect Utah is ahead of thirty-four States and
Territories of the Union. A system of district
schools, partly supported from the territorial trea-
rry, has been established for many years and is
improving annually. The taxes assessed by the
Territory amount to three mills on the dollar for
general public purposes, and three mills on the
dollar for the payment of teachers in the district
schools. In addition to this a local option law
leaves it discretionary with the resident taxpay-
ers in each organized district to assess a property
tax for general school purposes not to exceed two
per cent. in one year. Thus, if the people choose,
schools may be supported entirely by taxation or
partly by tuition fees. Three trustees elected by
the registered voters in each district manage the
school affairs, while there is a superintendent in
each county and a general superintendent for
the Territory to take the oversight thereof. Ac-
cording to the official report of the last named
functionary to the Legislature of 1882, the number
of district schools was 395; the school popula-
tion—between 6 and 18 years of age—was 42,353,
of whom 62.3 per cent. were enrolled, and 44
per cent. of the whole number in actual attend-
ance. The average number of day schools
taught in the year was 140; the total amount
paid to teachers for the year, $117,948.92, and the
total value of school property, $115,185.77. Be-
sides the district schools there are several high
schools, a number of private academies, about
60 denominational schools supported by the dif-
ferent sects, and the University of Deseret, part-
ly supported from the territorial treasury. All
the principal religious bodies are represented
and have substantial church edifices.
	Literature finds a wide field in Utah. The
leading journals and the best magazines of the
country are well patronized, and there are pub-
lished in the Territory eight daily papers, nine
semi-weeklies, five weeklies, three semi-month-
lies, three magazines, and a number of manu-
script papers, besides occasional books and
pamphlets.
	Utah is one of the most lightly taxed portions
of this great country. The territorial and school
taxes are together but six mills on the dollar;
the maximum county tax allowed is only the
the same amount; municipalities can at the ut-
most levy a tax of five mills for general purposes
and five mills for road construction and repairs,
and their charters restrict them from running
into extensive debts. (Special act allowed Salt
Lake City to contract a debt of $250,000 for a
large irrigating canal, but a sinking fund is pro-
vided for its gradual extinction.) The taxable
property is assessed at near $30,000,000, mines
and Lullion being exempt. A high liquor
license regulates the traffic in intoxicants in
these localities where prohibition is not main-
tained, and this assists the public revenue,
which is expended economically for the pnblic
benefit, of which the substantial roads,
bridges, public buildings and other improv-
ments in the different counties and cities give
indisputable evidence.
	The capacity of Utah for self government has
been demonstrated during the period of her ter-
ritoral condition by the laws which have been en-
acted in her Legislative Assembly, and which
Congress has almost invariably approved, by the
fact that the Territory is out of debt and that
with the above named exception, there is no
bonded debt in any county or municipality;
by the peace which prevails within her borders;
by the security to life and property enjoyed, far
greater than in any western State or Territo-
ry; by the temperance, industry, frugality
and steady habits and progress of the masse'

[Column 3]
of the people, which have become proverbial; by
the honesty of her public officials, no case of
embezzlement of public funds having yet dis-
graced her.
	The regard of Utah for republican principles
has been exhibited in all her history. Equal
rights have been extended to citizens of every
class, color, party and creed. Liberty of speech
and of the press has been fully accorded. The
popular voice has ruled in such affairs as the an-
omalous territorial system has left to the people,
and a free and secret ballot expresses the popu-
lar will foreshadowed in caucus and convention.
No demand made upon Utah by the general
government has ever been denied. While the
right to criticize the acts of national officials
is claimed by the people, they are ardent and
zealous believers in the fundamental principles
of American institutions and firm supporters of
the Government of the United States. When the
Territory was first settled by them It was part of
the domain of Mexico, but they unfurled the
national flag, under which five hundred of their
able bodied men were then serving, forming
a provisional government after the pattern
of the States of the Union, and at once sought
recognition as an integral part of the United
States. They have remained loyal to their
country under every circumstance and have re-
peatedly appealed to Congress for admission to
Statehood, that they might bear their share of
the expenses of government and become really
and truly a part of this great nation, obeying its
general laws with fidelity while managing their
own domestic affairs according to the genius of
constitutional liberty, compatible with constitu-
tional responsibility.
	The constitution which has been adopted and
under which Utah seeks admission into the
Union would secure to the State the constitu-
tional requirement of " a republican form of gov-
ernment." It is a liberal, just and equal in its
provisions as any in the land. It embodies the
improvements which, in old established States,
have been found by experience needful to the
best good of the people. There is nothing in it
to which reasonable objections can be successful-
ly advanced. It is plain proof that the people,
who present it appreciate and are devoted to the
principles of genuine republicanism, and that
they are prepared to maintain those principles as
an organized common-wealth and a recognized
partner in the federal compact.
	With a large and growing population, a vast
and productive region of country, valuable in-
dustries, an enlightened and progressive people,
the convenience and facilities of civilization, a
solvent and honestly handled exchequer, unex-
celled thrift, sobriety, order, frugality and union,
experience in the management of local affairs, an
unexceptionable constitution, ambition to be-
come a truly republican commonwealth, and
prospects and capacities for immense develop-
ment, material wealth and political enlargement
and influence, Utah can reasonably claim candid
consideration as an applicant for Statehood
on an equal footing with existing States, and
does earnestly ask that prejudice and misjudg-
ment may be disregarded, in view of the unmis-
takeable evidences afforded of her fitness for the
responsibilities and privileges of a free State in
the grand and glorious American Federal Union.


THE PRESENT TIME.
	The condition of this people at the present
time is fraught with as great interest to those
who are watching the signs of the times, the
evidences of God's power, and who are actually,
and actively engaged in helping to establish
Zion, as at any period in the history of the Church.
To say we live in a momentous age, is but a feeble


[Column 1]

way of expressing the great and sublime events
that are transpiring all around us. We are apt
to look back and admire the great men and
women of the past and their heroic deeds,
and forget that we have in our midst men simi-
larly endowed with the holy Priesthood of God,
and women whose lives of heroism and self
sacrifice equal if they do not surpass any of
those we read about in the Scriptures, and
reverence be sublimely. That this is a brighter
age and one in which greater events is to
transpire than in any other period of the
world, the Latter-day Saints are taught to
believe. Joseph the Prophet and Seer so In-
structed the people, as he was taught of God
through direct revelation; and the Scriptures
abundantly testify of the truth of his words.
	Isaiah, in his most glowing and emphatic lan-
guage, prophetic in his utterances, has graphical-
ly described the latter-day dispensation. David
the sweet psalmist of Israel, speaks in his beauti,
ful way of the wonderful events of the
latter times, and the poet inspired of God
wrote, "Which kings and prophets waited
for and sought, but never found."
	It is not strange that the very people and
nations among whom these great events are
transpiring are almost regardless cf anything
beyond the ordinary, and yet all around them
the great programme of the Almighty is being
carried out in its several acts and various details,
and will eventually conclude with the re-
demption of Zion, end all the glories of the
kingdom Daniel saw in vision that should
break in pieces all other kingdoms and stand
forever.
	"He who runs may read;" it is as plain
to the understanding of those who are walking
in the light of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that
the events that are new on the tapis with
this people and the government of the
United States, are part and parcel, and a
most important part, too, of the great latter-
day drama. Can any one doubt what the re-
sult will be to this people of the agitation
on the subject of Mormonism, now so gen-
eral all over the land? Not those certainly
who have carefully observed the denouement
of each of the particular events termed epochs
in Church History since 1830. Those things
that seemed hardest to bear, that have been
considered, and in fact were, in one sense of the
word, the severest struggles of the saints
have in the outcome proved to be the great-
est blessings. It is not possible in a brief
sketch to mention them separately as they
have occurred, but certainly those who have
passed over the ground have seen for them-
selves. Thousands of instances might be
brought forward to prove the manifestations of
God's power among his saints; this people
called "Mormons," so despised of the world, so
hated, so persecuted. The Lord has in every
age provided, as it were, a ram in the thicket,
when He has brought his saints the house;
of Israel into strait places. Can we not be-
lieve He will do so now? Notwithstanding
the malice and bitterness of the world against
"Mormons," and their intercessions with Con-
gress to have oppressive laws passed against
them, and burdensome restrictions placed
upon them, depriving them of the rights accord-
ed by the Constitution to all freeborn men,
yet will the Lord In the future, as He has
in the past provide a ransom, but He will do
it in his own, way and time, and according to
his good pleasure. Men are simply the Instru-
ments in his hands and Legislatures, Cabinets
and Congresses, with all their wisdom, their
wealth and power, are his to mould and to
work with as seemeth Him good.
	The prophets in ancient times, as well as these

[Column 2]

in the present days, have spoken much against
being at ease in Zion; many think there is little
need of their help in the kingdom, as God will
perform the great labor of rolling forth his work.
But does not our Heavenly Father expect each
one to act nobly a part; to develop all the talents
committed to his keeping, and to acquire wis-
dom and strength to labor in the great vine-
yard? He most certainly does! It has been
through the united efforts of the whole people
led and guided by his servants that the work
has so far progressed, and let no one think his
help insignificant, for each has an important
part, be it ever so humble or obscure. The
prayers and faithful labors of the humblest of
the Saints may be as effectual in calling down
the blessing of God upon Israel, in its greatest
need, as that,which to those who are looking on,
seems the highest endeavor of the ablest man,
or woman who steps forward to assist in the
time of danger or difficulty. What could the
captain of a ship do without the sailors? and
yet he controls their labors, assisted by his
mates and pilot, and unless they obey his orders
all would be confusion, and the ship could not
reach the point they sailed for, and accomplish
the will of the owner who had sent them out
upon the ocean. And unless the captain listen-
ed to the pilot and was guided by the true com-
pass, the ship would be sure to go wrong. So
the Latter-day Saints must listen to the one
whom the Lord has appointed to direct the af-
fairs of the great ship Zion, and while he is
guided by the Holy Spirit which is ever the true
compass, for the prophets of God, the ship
will not be stranded, or cast upon the rocks
though heavy and perilous storms may arise,
and peradventure many of those on board may
become restless and uneasy and fearful; yet
if they will stick to the good and staunch
old ship they will at last reach a safe port; and
they need not sail blindly either, for each one on
board Zion’s ship has the privilege of carrying
with him a compass, the Holy Spirit in his own
heart. But to Jump overboard would be fatal.
How many have thought when trials come
along, well "I'll stand for myself, I am tired
of trusting to others, I see no way cut of
this difficulty, and I believe the leaders and
those who preside and direct the affairs of the
Church are all wrong, and I'll just give it all up."
Thus have such departed from the true light,
lost the faith once so dear to them and have
"sold their birthright for a mess of pottage!"
Nothing pays so well as to be a saint. How
many instances of the kind spoken of can one
recall, where those who have remained faithful
and true, have after years of endurance grown
doubtful, and finally fallen into darkness, and
wrecked the hopes once so strongly entertained
of salvation and exaltation hereafter. Humility
and prayers are necessities for the Latter-day
Saint. But in this busy world amid its every
day cares and perplexities, it is easy to forget to
seek diligently unto the Lord for testimony and
instead of doing so, may look around to see what
kind of lives the people are living among whom
their lot is cast, judging and condeming them
and taking their weaknesses and short comings
as testimony against the principles of the Gos-
pel, although perhaps wofully neglectful them-
selves of duties and careless of keeping the com-
mandments of God.
	There is no occasion for fear, if one will go to
with his might to do hls part, and where there
is union there will be power and the Lord will
withhold no good thing from his people. He
will raise them up friends on the right hand and
on the left, and carry them off victorious though
all the powers of earth combine against them,
for as the Scripture says "He will make the
wrath of the wicked to praise him."

[Column 3]

	Therefore it behooves the Saints to maintain
their integrity at the present time, to that which
has been revealed from heaven, be not fearful
but strong in the Lord; knowing that He holds
the nations in his grasp, and He can cast down
or raise up at His will. Never was there a time
when Zion had more need of intelligent workers
in the field than at present; and those too who
will work with wisdom and skill, and an eye sin-
gle to building up Zion instead of seeking their
own aggrandizement.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
		   ---------
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Y. L. M. I. A.
are respectfully solicited to prepare and forward
semi-annual reports in good time for the Secre-
tary of the Central Board to make a complete
report for the annual Conference in April. This
report is required at the office of President Tay-
lor ten days before the Conference. Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, President of the Y. L. M. I. A., is
anxious there should be a report from each of
the organizaitons. Send reports to the Secretary
Miss Loui Wells, care WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Salt Lake City.
	SISTERS M. I. Horne and E. Howard vistited
Summit County in the interest of the Deseret
Hospital, leaving this City Saturday morning,
Jan 27. and returning Feb. 3. On account of
the severe cold and stormy weather they did not
accomplish all they anticipated. They held two
meetings with the sisters, one at Coalville and
another at Grass Creek; several other appoint-
ments were given out for them, but the weather
would not admit of their traveling to keep them.
Every attention possible was shown to aid them
in the work they had in view; and at some
future time the ladies, who went as a committee,
will likely visit again on the same errand.
	THE Deseret Hospital, though still in its in-
fancy, is nevertheless filling a long felt need by
the people. Some changes have been made
since the institution first opened; but these
were deemed necessary by the managers for the
best good of all interested. Unforseen circum-
stances and requirements demand such changes
from time to time in all public institutions. The
people have donated liberally to furnish and
establish the Hospital, but all benevolent enter-
prises require extra exertions of this kind unless
they are liberally endowed, and it would take
years to procure the needful appurtenances and
conveniences for such an establishment if de-
pending upon fees alone. Much charity work
has been done; but good judgment and wise dis-
criminationa are necessary in the management
to know how to adjust all these matters. The
institution commenced very small, comparative-
ly speaking. The ladies who have charge des
affaires as an Executive Committee are well
known in the community, and their ability and
experience is unquestioned; under their able
management there is no doubt that everything
will be done in the best manner possible to pro-
mote the highest interest of the institution and
its permanent success.
	The young lady installed as house surgeon is
very competent, skillful and energetic, kind and
solicitious for the good of all under her care and
the prospertiy of the institution. Dr. Anderson
is the regular visiting surgeon, and his success-
ful career as a practitioner in Utah is too well
established to need comment. There have been
some very particular and interesting operations
performed since the Hospital was opened; and
there is every reason to believe that from this
small beginning a flourshing, praiseworthy and
benevolent institution will grow, that will be a
blessing and comfort to the afflicted and injured
among the Latter-day Saints. A full report will


be given of the condition of the Hospital, and
the work done there at the annual Conference
in April.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


﻿A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS AND RE-
			FLECTIONS.

   My mind has teen reflecting back to the days
of my youth. My parents never belonged to any
religious sect, but ever taught me good morals,
virtue and a sacredness of keeping the Sab-
bath. On one side of us the Methodists held
their meetings, on the other side the Quakers.
I had the privilege of going to either. When
I was twelve years old, I well remember there
was a Methodist revival which I attended,
Sunday after Sunday. They told us if we did
not repent and get religion, we would go to hell.
   It so wrought upon my feelings, I resolved
to get religion, but how to get it I did not
know, for they did not tell me. I spent sleepless
nights, and agonizing days, trying to get religion.
   I would retire to my chamber and try to pray,
but all I could say was, Father, l am a sinner, for-
give me. Farther than this I knew not what to
do. I dared not fell my mother the condition of
my mind; weeks passed by, and I still continued
in this frame of mind. Finally I resolved I
would quit the Methodists and go to the
Quakers, who always eat in silence, and
told me nothing bad; so, like all children, it
soon wore away; only at times I did feel I would
like to get religion, as I thought it made peo-
ple very good.  When I was eighteen years old,
there came to our town four Mormon Elders.
I begged of my mother to let me go and
hear them preach, to which she gave her con-
sent.  Every word that fell from their lips,
sank deep into my heart.  I said, that is truth.
   They taught me how to get religion; to
repent, believe and be immersed in water,
by those holding authority from God and I
should receive the gift of the Holy Ghost,
by the laying on of hands, as in the days of the
Savior. I obeyed and I bear my testimony
to the world, I did receive that living tes-
timony, not from mortal being, but from God
my Father, revealed from the heavens; and
that testimony assured me that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet, sent from God to bring forth the
Gospel in this last dispensation.  When I was
twenty-two, I obeyed the law of Celestial Mar-
riage.  My companion was just, virtuous, noble
in principle, a man, fearing God.  His first wife
whom he married three years before, was
kind, and noble principles dwelt in her heart;
she freely gave her consent to the marriage, and
we mutully agreed to travel the journey of
life together, because we sincerely believed it
was a commandment given from our Heavenly
Father. We have passed through many trials
together, in connection with our companion, but
those trials endeared us together.  I have lived
with and beside her for forty years; we loved
each other as dearly as earthly sisters could.
   A short time since she left us; Father called
her noble spirit home; I mourn her loss,
but death cannot sever the chords that bound
our hearts together, and I expect if faithful to
meet her in the spirit world and rejoice with
her.  When I think of the women of the out-
side world and consider how they look at the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and think we are impure
corrupt, and say all manner of evil against us, I
am led to exclaim Oh! that I could speak to
the nations of the earth, and bear my testimony
of the truth of the everlasting Gospel, that God
has revealed, the noble principles of integrity
and virtue that prevade the hearts of the
Saints of God who dwell in Utah; if they
could understand there things how changed
would be their feelings!  I pray the honest in
heart may be gathered out from the nations of
the earth, and be prepared to meet the Son
of Man, who is soon to come upon the earth, and
then all those who fight against Zion will perish
					MINERVA W. SNOW


OBITUARY.

	Died, in Evanston, Wyoming Territory, Jan. 17, 1883,
Eliza Martin, daughter of Hugh and Jane Watterson
Martin.
	Deceased was born in Motherwell, Lanark, Scotland,
June 17, 1866, and was in her 17th year at the time of
her demise. She was a faithful member of the Young
Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, also of the
Sunday School. She was kind and dutiful and beloved
by all who knew her. She leaves a loving father and
mother, four brothers and four sisters and many dear
friends to mourn her loss.
	NETTIE A. JONES.
Brighton, Salt Lake County, Jan. 21, 1883.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORT. 

	AMITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel it my duty to give a brief report of
the organization of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Amity, Arizona, which was organized Nov. 2,
1882, choosing Sister Julia A. Jenson presi-
dent. Our meetings are well attended, and a
great deal of good has been done since the or-
ganization. The young ladies show a desire to
press forward in this great work of the latter
days.	JULIA A. JENSON, Secretary.
		M. E. BIGELOW, Secretary.

	HOLDEN. Y. L. M. I. A.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Improvement and Primary Associations
are in a flourishing condition. The officers are
alive to their duties and are doing all they can
to instruct the youth of Zion.
	On the 5th of Nov. last, the Young Ladies'
Association of this ward was reorganized by
Bp. D. R. Stevens and counselors, with the
following officers: Emma J. Bennett, president;
Mary A. Stephenson and Annie R. Harmon,
counselors; Pauline Larson, secretary; Sarah
J. Gyles. assistant secretary, and Emma
Stringam, treasurer. We have about forty
members enrolled, and an average attendance
of thirty. Though our numbers are small, we
are striving to prepare ourselves to become
useful members in the kingdom of God. We
realize that we have a great work to perform,
and unless we are diligent we cannot expect to
gain the reward which our Father has promised
to His faithful children. Our worthy president
is a faithful and energetic woman, who is doing
all she can to help build up the kingdom.
	Our exercises consist of Bible and Book of
Mormon lectures, select readings, songs, recita-
tions, essays and testimonies. Our meetings
are very interesting, and we are all doing our
part to help them along, meanwhile remember-
ing that practice makes perfect.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, and
the success of the EXPONENT,
	We remain, your sisters in the Gospel,	
		EMMA J. BENNETT, President.
		PAULINE LARSON, Secretary.
	Holden, U. T., Feb. 1st, 1883.

BOUNTIFUL PRIMARY.
	East Bountiful Primary Association had a
Christmas tree in the Tabernacle, loaded down
with presents; many little hearts were made
glad that day. We had songs and recitiations
by the children; one piece, entitled, "The
Christmas Tree," by George Garrett," gave

[Column 2]

great satisfaction, and the children were not
the only ones that were made happy, for
through the kindness of Bro. W. W. Willey
and his kind-hearted wife, Sister Nancy Wil-
ley, president of the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion, and her first counselor, Sister Mary Call,
went to a few friends and collected $8.70; a
ton of coal was purchased and taken to the
house of Sister Ann Dustin, president of the
Primary, while she was busy with the children;
and the rest of the money was handed to her
at the Tabernacle, and it was a great surprise
to her. Many thanks to our Heavenly Father
for finding in the hearts of our kind friends
such good deeds that will ever be remembered.
	ANN DUSTIN, President.
	OLIVE SESSIONS, Sec. P. A. 

CENTER WARD PRIMARY. 
	Dear Sister Wells: Our Conference was held
about Christmas time. Two trees were filled
with books and a center table filled with flow-
ers, which the children made. We wanted the
motto, Primary Association, to hang over them,
but did not get it.
	We held our Conference on the 27th of Dec.
There were present on the stand: Bishop B.
Cluff, Supt. W. Blake, Sister Blake, first coun-
selor, Sister Richardson, second counselor.
The children went through their exercises,
which were appropriate for the occasion. All
felt well paid for coming. Our Association
numbers four officers and 24 members. We
have meetings every two weeks, the excer-
cises being Questions and Answers, recitations,
songs, etc. We are much pleased with the
Primary Speakers.
	Our Society has paid to Salt Lake Temple,
$15; to Deseret Hospital, quilt and tidy,
$6.10; for prizes, wool and work; $5.65; total,
$26.75. In treasury, one quilt and a few arti-
cles.
	The children, with Sister Cluff and Sister
Brown, all join in sending our love to you and
Sister Zina D. H. Young, hoping you may
have fine weather next time you come to 
Wasatch.
	Your respectfully,
		ANN HARVEY.

	PRIMARY FAIR AT SALINA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Primary Association of Salina, Sevier
County, held a fair in the school-house, on the
18th day of January, 1883, representing the
handiwork of the little ones, from 4 years old to
14. The room was decorated very tastefully;
the walls with quilts and other articles. One
large table was spread with the children's arti-
cles, such as wool flowers, tidies, picture-
frames, scarfs, little cupboards, tables, garden
ladders, clay horses, stockings, cakes and pies,
cushions, and a great many more things that I
will not mention. The forenoon was spent
with recitations, songs, dialogues, and some very
good instructions by different ones. Prizes were
given according to merit. The children's din-
ner was brought there, which they partook of
with great appreciation, on account of being
together. After dinner, the children danced
until 5 o'clock, and then returned home very
cheerful and happy. The Association donated
$5 to the emigration fund. Much satisfaction
was given.
	MARY J. CRANE, President.
	ANGELINE MARTIN, Secretary.


FIFTEENTH ANNUAL CONVENTION.

	The proceedings of the fifteenth annual
convention of the National Woman Suffrage
Association were inaugurated at Lincoln Hall,
Monday evening, by a novel lecture, entitled
"Zekle's Wife."
	The lecturer was Mrs. Amy T. Dunn, of


[Column 1]
Indianapolis, but the personality of Mrs.
Dunn is so entirely lost in that of Zekle's
wife that it is hard to realize that the old lady
of so many and so varied experiences is the
handsome and happy young wife. As a char-
acter sketch, Mrs. Dunn's "Zekle's Wife"
stands on an equality with Denman Thomp-
son's "Joshua Whitcomb," and with Joe
Jefferson's "Rip Van Winkle," and is as
unique in its way as either of these characters.
To sustain a conception so foreign to the
natural charateristics of the actor without once
allowing the interest of the audience to flag
requires something more than ordinary talent
or a mere aptitude for recitation; it requires
originality of thought, independence of idea,
and genius for action. It requires also a
thorough sympathy with each and every sen-
timent expressed by that character. Mrs.
Dunn, herself the author of her sketch,
possesses to a remarkable degree the power to
impress upon her audience the feeling that the
old lady from "Kentuck" is before them, not
only to say things for their amusement, but
also to impress upon them those great truths
which have presented themselves to her mind
during the fifty years of her married life.
	"Zekle's Wife" is a keen, shrewd, warm-
hearted, lovable old woman, without education
or culture, yet with an innate sense of refine-
ment and touching undercurrent of desire
"not to be too hard on Zekle." As she tells
her story, which she informs us is a true one
from real life, she engages the attention and
wins the sympathy of all her hearers, and
frequent bursts of applause evidenced the
satisfaction of the audience on Monday even-
ing.
	The regular convention opened on Tuesday
morning, when a business meeting was held at
Lincoln Hall, at which various committees
were appointed, the most important of them
being the committee on resolutions, composed
of Lillie Devereux Blake, of New York City;
Virginia L. Minor, of St. Louis; Harriet B.
Shattuck, of Boston; May Wright Sewall,
of Indianapolis; and Ellen H. Sheldon, of the
District of Columbia.
	At the afternoon session Miss Susan B.
Anthony, who is always cordially welcomed in
Washington, addressed the convention, giving
a succinct, terse, and logical statement of the
reasons why she demanded a sixteenth amend-
ment to the Federal Constitution; or, "Why
we come to Congress."
	The special committee appointed to attend
to the work before the Senate committee, re-
ported that two hearings were given the officers
of the convention, and that of the reports of
the Senate committee with regard to a six-
teenth constitutional amendment the majority
report in its favor was presented to the Senate
by Senators Lapham, Ferry, Blair, and An-
thony, Republicans. The minority report
against the amendment was presented by Sen-
ators George, Jackson, and Fair, Democrats.
	Mrs. Spofford, the treasurer, reported that
$5,000 were spent in Nebraska in the endeavor
to carry the amendment in that State.
	May Wright Sewall, of Indiana, then spoke
on "The Lesson of the Nebraska Campaign."
Mrs. Sewall said: "Women must learn that
power gives power; that intelligence alone can
appreciate or be influenced by intelligence;
that justice alone is moved by appeals based
on justice. More than anything in the course
of suffrage labor does the Nebraska campaign
justify the primary method of this national
association. We have a right to expect that
each State Legislature will be composed of
the picked men of all the States. We have a
right to believe that as the intelligence, wis-
dom, and justice of the picked men of the na-
tion are to the same qualities in the mass of
men, so is the fitness of national and State
legislators to consider the demands for the

[Column 2]
ballot, to the fitness of the means to consider
this question. The lesson is, let not the work
in the States he abandoned, but let all the
States unite in the national method, and let
the women of all sections, as equal citizens of
the nation, demand the nation's protection in
the fundamental rights of citizens of the re-
public, the right indeed upon which a republic
is built—the right of franchise." Mrs. Sewall
was frequently interrupted with applause, and
at the close of her address was warmly
approved,
	Mrs. Mills, of this city, sang, as a solo,
"Barbara Fritchie," in excellent style. At
the evening session the time was divided be-
tween Lillie Devereux Blake and Phoebe W.
Couzins. Mrs. Blake spoke on the question:
"Is it a Crime to be a Woman?" She showed
in a clear, logical manner that wherever a
woman was apprehended for crime the dis-
crimination against her was not because of the
crime she had committed, but because the
crime had been committed by a woman. Mrs.
Blake further said that every woman in this
country was treated by the law as if she were
to blame for being a woman. In New York
an honorable married woman has no right to
her children. A man may beat his wife all
he pleases, but if he beats another man the
law immediately interferes, showing that the
woman is not protected simply because she is
indiscreet enough to be a woman. If it is not
a crime to be a woman, why are women sub-
jected to unequal payment with men for the
same service? Why are they forced at times
to don men's clothes in order to obtain employ-
ment that will keep them from starvation?
Miss Couzins began by saying that the Ameri-
can-born woman was "a woman without a
country;" but before she had closed she had
proved that this country belonged exclusively
to the women. It was a woman, Queen
Isabella, who enabled a man to discover this
country, and in the old flag the initials were
"I" and "F," representing Isabella and
Ferdinand, showing that it was acknowledged
that the woman's initial was the most import-
ant in this matter and to be first considered.
It was a woman, Mary Chilton, whose feet
first landed on Plymouth rock. It was a
woman, Betsy Ross, who designed our beauti-
ful flag, the original eagle on our silver dollars,
and the seal of the United States, without
which no money is legal. All the way down
in our national history woman has been hand
in hand with man, has assisted, supported, and
encouraged him, and now there are women
ready to help reform the life of the body poli-
tic, and side by side with man work to purify,
refine, and ennoble the world. Miss Couzins
seemed inspired with her own thoughts and
carried the audience along with her in her
flights of eloquence.

RESOLUTIONS.

	Resolved, That the women citizens of the
United States demand the right to vote, in or-
der that they may be able directly to influence
legislation for the promotion of morality and
good government, and the protection of the
best interests of their sex; that woman suffrage
means stable institutions, happy homes, equal
wages, aud equal purity for men and women.
	Whereas, In larger numbers than ever be-
fore, the women of the United States are de-
manding the repeal of arbitrary restrictions
which now debar them from the use of the bal-
lot; and,
	Whereas, The recent defeat in Nebraska of
a constitutional amendment, giving the women
of the State the right to vote, proves that in-
comprehension and consequent failure is the
natural result of an appeal to the masses on a
question which is best understood and approved
by the more intelligent citizens; therefore,
	Resolved, That we call upon this Congress

[Column 3]
to pass, without delay, the Sixteenth Amend-
ment to the Federal Constitution now pending
in the Senate, which prohibits the several
States from disfranchising United States citi-
ens on account of sex.
	Resolved, That the thanks of the National
Association are due to the members of the Sen-
ate and House committees on the claims of
women citizens for their favorable considera-
tion of the women suffrage measures now be-
fore them, and their unfailing courtesy to those
who have urged these measures upon their at-
tention.
	Resolved, That all competitive examinations
for places in the civil service of the United
States should be open on equal terms to citi-
zens of both sexes, and that any so-called civil
service reform that does not correct the existing
unjust discrimination against women employees
and grade all salaries on merit and not by sex,
is a dishonest pretence at reform.
	Whereas, The Constitution of the United
States declares that no State shall be admitted
to the Union unless it have a republican form
of government; and whereas, no true republic
can exist unless all the inhabitants are given
equal, civil and political rights; therefore,
	Resolved, That we earnestly protest against
the admission of Dakota as a State, unless the
right of suffrage is secured on equal terms to
all her citizens, women as well as men.
	Resolved, That the proposition to disfran-
chise the women of Utah, for no cause
whatever, is a cruel display of the power
which lies in might alone, and that this
Congress has no more right to disfrancise
the women of Utah than the men of Wyo-
ming.
	Whereas, The foreign emigration to our coun-
try is constantly increasing, having during
the past year reached the enormous sum of a
half a million of people; and whereas, two
thirds of these foreigners are men; therefore,
	Resolved, That it is of growing importance
to give the ballot to the women of the coun-
try for the maintenance of American in-
stitutions.
	Whereas, Disfranchisement is a punishment
which a republic ought not to inflict upon its
citizens unless they have been guilty of crime;
and whereas all men regard the denial
of political rights as a humiliation, Judge
Black having, in his opinion on the Ed-
munds bill, accurately spoken of "an in-
famous and degrading penalties of disfran-
chisement;" therefore,
	Resolved, That the law-abiding, taxpaying
women citizens of these United States have
not deserved the infliction of this punishment,
and do most earnestly demand that they be
relieved from the cruelties it imposes upon
them by disfranchisement.
	Whereas, during the war, hundreds of
women throughout our land entered the ser-
vice of the nation as hospital nurses; and
	Whereas, many of these women were disabled
by wounds and disease, while many were re-
duced to permanent invalidism by the hard-
ships they endured; therefore,
	Resolved, That these women should be
placed on the pension list and receive suitable
means in consideration of their services.
	After the reading of the resolutions an
animated discussion followed, Miss Anthony
showing in scathing terms the injustice of the
employment of women to do equal work with
men at half the salaries in the Departments at
Washington and elsewhere.
	A resolution was added and adopted declar-
ing that paying Dr. Susan A. Edson for her
services as attendant physician to President
Garfield $1,000 less than was paid for the
same service rendered by Dr. Boynton, a more
recent graduate of the same college from
which she received her diploma, is an unjust
discrimination on account of sex.


During the discussion of the resolution
Mrs. Sewall said that men clerks in the De
partments were given extra leave of absence
each year to go home to vote. She suggested
that women clerks be given (until the time
comes for them to vote) extra leave to medi-
tate upon the ballot.—Washington Chronicle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	MRS. W. East writes from Smithville, Arizo-
na, enclosing subscriptions to the EXPONENT,
that she hopes soon to be able to increase her
list for it, as they find the paper invaluable in
that far-off land, as the representative of our
organizations, and they feel to assist in the de-
velopment of the eternal truths contained in
its pages. She adds: "Success to our little pa-
per, which will soon be in its teens. May it
grow in power and influence with its years."
It is very gratifying to those who labor in the
interest of the EXPONENT, to know it is appre-
ciated, in the different settlements even outside
Utah. It shall be our constant aim to make it
interesting to its many readers.


LITTLE LETTER.

		RICHMOND, Jan. 24th, 1883.
	Dear Sister Wells.—It is with pleasure I sit
down to write a few lines to put in the Wo-
MAN'S EXPONENT, as I thought you would
like to know how our Primary in Richmond is
getting along. I am a member of the Prim-
ary Association here and have been ever since
it commenced. I am now eleven years old, and
feel very thankful to have the privilege of go-
ing to those little meetings. I always try to do
what my president and counselors tell me to
do. And I am happy to say that our meetings
are improving very rapidly; and we have re-
ceived a pretty little card with those beautiful
words, "Children, love each other." Yes, that
is our motto, and we should love each other,
and above all our Heavenly Father. Our
meetings are very interesting, and I would
counsel my young brothers and sisters to at-
tend to their meetings, because I know the
Lord blesses us in so doing; and be obedient to
our parents and attend to our prayers, that the
Spirit of the Lord may rest upon us, to guide
us through life, that we may grow up to be
honorable men and women in the Kingdom of
God. We should read good books and attend
to our Sunday Schools and every meeting that
we possibly can. And we should keep the
commandments of God, and we will be sure of
our salvation. May this be our happy lot, is
my prayer.
	I remain, your sister in the Gospel,
		MARINDA MONSON.


RESPECT TO THE AGED.
	BLOOMINGTON, Idaho, Jan. 28, 1883.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister.--At the request of President
Greenhalgh, I send you an account of a party
given to the aged brethren and sisters of
Bloomington, under the direction of our much
respected Bishop, Wm. Hulme. We were hon-
ored by the presence of Bros. J. H. Hart and
Geo. Osmond, of the Presidency of the Stake,
and Sisters J. P. Lindsay and E. Collins, of
the Stake Presidency of R. S. There were
present on the occasion between 95 and 100,
who all seemed to enjoy the entertainment.
	After dinner was over, the time was occu-
pied by the brethren and sisters in singing,
dancing, speechifying and select reading. Pro-
gramme, as carried out: Opening prayer, Bro.
JohnWither; address by the secretary; song,
Bro. and Sister Greenhalgh; speech, Father
Pattern, 84 years of age; hornpipe, Father
Ward, 64 years of age; do., J. Haddock.


After which, we received some very excellent
instructions from President Lindsay. Song,
Father Jarvis. Counselor Collins made some
interesting remarks, and gave good and neces-
sary advice to young mothers. Father Nelson,
80 years old, led his granddaughter out for a
waltz, which was permitted out of respect to
the Scandinavians present. Sister Womsley
made a few remarks, and said she had been. 46
years in the church. Select reading, Sister E.
Long; dance, H. Roberts; song, Sister M. Rob-
erts; dancing; recitation, Bro. James E. Hart;
song, Bro. Greenhalgh; song, Bp. Hulme; do,
Bro. Long; do., Bro. Hart. President Osmond
expressed his pleasure at meeting on such an
occasion as this, and thought it would be long
remembered; spoke at some length of the early
settlement of the valley. President Hart ex-
pressed himself as being pleased with the en-
tertainment, and gave us instructions on vari-
ous subjects, which were appreciated by all
present. Benediction by Bro. Collins.
	Yours respectfully,
		E. E. C. PIGGOTT.


﻿A JOYFUL TIME.
	In honor of Sister Margaret Randall, a no-
ble and much beloved mother in Israel, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Centreville, Da-
vis County, a party was given on her birthday,
Jan. 13th ult., by the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety. About forty persons assembled at her
residence. A bountiful repast had been pre-
pared, tables were spread and all sat down to a
luxurious feast. After supper, Sister Whitta-
ker, in behalf of the sisters, presented Sister 
Randall with a handsome dress pattern and
trimmings. Her eldest daughter presented
her a shawl from her children. The secretary
of the Society read an address, entitled, “Our
Worthy President,” expressive of the love and
esteem cherished by the sisters of the Society
for their President and their appreciation of
her kindness and good works. Sister Randall,
although much overcome with these expres-
sions of kind feelings, thanked and blessed the
sisters for their manifestations of respect. The
afternoon was occupied in speeches and songs.
It was an occasion never to be forgotten.
			S. A. Reeves, Sec. R. S.


You never know how much water an
umbrella is capable of containing, until you
accidentally stand it against the wall and on
the pearl-covered carpet that cost $5 per yard.

	The researches which the Archeological
Institute of America is carrying forward at
Assos, in Asia Minor, the site of an old
Greek town, have led to the recovery of one of
the most interesting of ancient Doric temples,
and to the discovery of sufficient details to al-
low of its complete restoration. Some frag-
ments of relics from this temple have long been
counted among the most precious treasures of
the Louvre. Many additional fragments have
now been found by the American expedition
besides other works of value, such as floor mo-
saics, vases, sarcophagi, etc.—Ex.

	For tables about which children may gather
without any warning off, whether in nursery,
dining-room or sitting-room, covers of linen
crash are used, and made handsome by outline
embroidery. Such a one has a border in scroll-
work ten inches wide, about three-eighths of a
yard from the edge, and crossing at the corners.
The whole body of the cloth is worked in a
large floral design, so as to leave large
spaces of the cloth untouched. The colors
used are shades of red, from dark brown red or
light red. At the edge small linen tassels tea
set on about ten inches apart, and hanging from
a stout linen thread an inch and a half long.
This cloth is washable as well as durable. --Ex.


MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON

Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks cast
of the Deseret National Bank, and half a
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper’s.
Men's Socks, Ladies’ and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies’ and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS  CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent’s Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.P.TEASDEL.
Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting
Flannels, White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Brushes, Etc. Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
---HAVE---
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.
DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND---
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 11.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1883.			No. 19


MISUNDERSTOOD

		A REMONSTRANCE.

"The heart knoweth its own bitter and a stranger
		comprehendeth it not."

How can a stranger in their griefs take part,—
	Whose greatest trouble can be least explained?
How can a stranger soothe the aching heart,—
	Whose sorrows must be silently sustained?

How can the sensitive, the fond, the true—
	To whom the waves of woe full often come—
Strip, their loved idols for the public view,
	Or tell the griefs, whose weight doth make them
		dumb?

Oh! who can understand their keenest woe,—
Whose love or pride must needs withhold the key?
The links of life are complicated so,
	That truest lives oft seem a mystery.

Uncomprehended, often disapproved,—
	Brave, sterling souls such weighty crosses bear;
Alike by censure or by praise unmoved—
	Upward they climb beneath their load of care.

Not deigning e’en to cast their burdens down,
	Lest, on more helpless ones the load should fall;
Thus they endure the censure or the frown
	Of those at ease who claim to know it all.

Hail! Dauntless hearts, too pr[--]d to e’en disclose
	Your griefs to those who comprehend  [-]hem not;
Stlll struggle upward, for your Father, [---] ws
	The bitterness of each appointed lot.

Still struggle upward, for the gates of heaven
	To suffering souls are near, and open wide;
Through pain made perfect, are the noblest, even
	As was our Captain, Christ the Crucified!
				EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
﻿THE ART GALLERIES AND MU-
	SEUMS OP VIENNA.
			______
	Vienna is in itself a storehouse filled
with the treasures gathered by the patience
and industry of many generations. The
Upper Belvedere contains one of the finest galler-
ies of pictures in Europe. The arrangement is
excellent. The saloons in which the differ-
ent schools of painting, are placed are
readily found. Each picture is distinctly
marked with  the artist's name and the
date of its execution. This simple, yet
definite, disposition of the paintings is a
great satisfaction to the tourist, whether his
time be limited or not. The ease with
which the particular object sought can be
found, enhances very much one's enjoyment
of it. These large galleries are always fa-
tiguing. The greater our  interest, the
greater our weariness. The pictures, if
carefully examined, tax the mental powers,
and the eyes, more than all things else.
The effort to follow  out the details of
his thought, as it stands on the canvas
before one, glowing in the colors placed
there by the hand of genius, must always
be exhaustive to the mind of ordinary
mortal.
	When the colors grow dim to our mor-
tal eyes, and the stories they are intended
to tell seem incomprehensible or confused,
we leave them for a time, and go away
to the more quiet colorless marble, and find
relief for the eyes and a partial rest for
the brain. The statue generally tells its

[Column 2]
story in more simple fashion than the canvas
or the ceiling.
	The Italian painters have ample room ac-
corded them at the Belvedere, the Venetians
holding the largest place. Tintoretto and
Titian seem like cordial friends as you
meet them just beyond the threshold.
Palma Vecchio's "Madonna" would suffice
one for an entire day's pleasure, if one
were only at liberty to take these wonderful
things in some homoepathic way, instead of
crowding one grand thing upon another,
and then packing the day's experience into
our minds after the manner that we put
all we can into our trunks for transportation.
Rubens holds a large place in this large
gallery. His "Ignatius Loyolo" and the
preaching of St. Francis Xavier are thought
by critics to be among the finest of his
works.
	The Lower Belvedere is a separate build-
ing standing quite a little distance from
the picture gallery. In the lower building
are gathered antiques - the Egyptian antiqui-
ties and the famous Ambras collection. The
treasures found here were originally collected
by Archduke Ferdinand of the Tyrol, and
placed by him in Schloss Ambras, the old
castle on the Mittelgeberge, near Innsbruck,
made memorable as the home of Philippina,
the beautiful daughter of a banker of
Augsburg, whom the Count of Tyrol married
for love, much to the displeasure of the
aristocratic old Emperor.
	The valuable relics of the grand battles
and knights of the days which are very
far gone into the past, were taken to
Vienna in 1856, much to the indignation
of the people of Innsbruck and the Tyrol,
who felt they were the rightful custodians
of these treasures. The equestrian portion
is particularly valuable, and of great inter-
est to the student of history. Some of it
belonged to the Hapsburg family; a part of
it antedates their reign, while many of the
articles are trophies of their prowess in
battle. Fire-arms, sabres and swords are
gathered in one department. Valuable speci-
mens of embroidery on sacerdotal robes fill
quite a space. The old heroes of the past
do not seem so very far away when you
may stretch out your hand and touch their
garments or their weapons. The battle-axe of
Montezuma, and the quiver of Kara Mustaph,
would quicken the blood of the most stolid.
Ancient vases, bronzes, metallic vessels and
curiosities found in the Tyrol, go to make
up the sum of this most interesting and valu-
able collection. Portraits of the notables of
old, including the beautiful Philippina and
the Archduke Ferdinand, adorn the walls.
	Austrians and Germans have no lack of ma-
terial wherewith to stock a museum of weap-
ons. We of a younger country, which as
yet has had no time for avoidable disputes
and battles, are being continually surprised by
these warlike chroniclers of the fighting past
of Europe. We find page after page of his-
tory in simple contemplation of these articles.
The Waffen Museum, one of the finest build-
ings in the city, is a rich combination of the
Moorish and Romanesque styles. The vesti-
bule and staircase are more than ordinarily
fine. This structure is set aside for the im-
perial collection of weapons, a large and in-
teresting assortment of armor and arms be-

[Column 3]
longing to emperors and knights, kings and
counts, whose lives have been in some way
identified with the history of Austria.
	The Imperial Arsenal in the old part of
the city contains a splendid armory. Several
thousand men are constantly employed here.
Many of them are engaged in manufacturing
arms, with which the Austrian soldiers of
to-day hope to make their names as famous
as their ancestors did in the days which are
gone. The walls of the great court of the
armory are festooned with the huge chain
which Solyman the Magnificent caused the
Turks who fought under him to throw across
the Danube at Buda. Among the treasures of
this arsenal may be seen the armor of Sobieski,
and a coat worn by Gustavus Adolphus at the
battle of Lutzen. A standard captured from
Mohammed IV, by Sobieski, during the de-
fence of Vienna, is one of the curiosities.
	Never did a city so stimulate one to active
efforts to secure its sights and shows, and in no
place has the weather been a greater detriment
to the desires of our heart than here. If one
could imbibe through the pores anything but
colds, rheumatism or malaria, here would seem
to be the place for such an accomplishment.
Eyes and ears do not take in enough at a time
of what we find here to satisfy our thirst for
what we know is in this city. The value of
its collections is a constant matter of surprise
to us. Its educational institutions are well
endowed, and number among them a universi-
ty, an academy of fine arts, a polytechnic in-
stitution, a school of astronomy, and a con-
servatory of music. In hospitals, asylums,
and benevolent institutions, few, if any, cities
can outrank this Austrian capital. Its libra-
ries are well filled with valuable books, its
schools are full, and beggars are seldom if ever
seen in its streets. Its population seems cheer-
ful and happy. Its coffee-houses and club
rooms find abundant customers. Its theatres
are never without patronage nor its promenades
without pedestrians, when the weather will
admit of out-of-door exercise. - RUTH RANDOM,
in American Sentry.


UNIVERSITY EDUCATION FOR WOMEN.--
The examiners of the Royal University of
Ireland have recommended the names of nine
women candidates for the first university ex-
amination in arts.  Forty-one ladies passed
the matriculation examination:—A very im-
portant step has been taken recently at Queen’s
College, Belfast, Ireland.  A memorial was-
presented lately by the Belfast Ladies, Institute-
to the President and Council of the Queen’s
College, asking that certain of the advanced
or "honor classes should be opened to those
young ladies who have passed the matri-
culation examination of the Royal University,
pnder such conditions as may seem best to-
them. The following resolution was passed
at the meeting of the Council afterwards.
“That the Council is disposed to sanction the
admission of women to certain classes in the
college, if arrangements of a satisfactory
character can be made, and if it is found
that a sufficient number of women are
desirous of availing themselves of the privi-
lege.” There is little doubt that this change
is due to the altered position of the Queen's
College, which is now connected with ther
Royal University, which admits women, instead
of with the old Queen’s University, which ex-
cluded them.—Ex


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
AND PATRIARCH.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
For years our most charming and popular
singer was Brother John Kay, whose name,
it will be remembered, became almost a house-
hold word. His voice, deep and mellow, need-
ed no accompanaiment to fill our halls, and
the powerful and thrilling effect upon the au-
dience when he sang “The Children of Judah”
or “The Sea, the sea, the open sea,” and others
equally charming and melodious, (as well as
some original songs) was such that once heard
could not easily be forgotten. I shall again
have occasion to speak of him as he was one
of the prominent actors in those scenes, and
also after we became wanderers in search of
homes in this far off wilderness, where we had
cause to believe that we should dwell un-
molested to enjoy the privilege of worshiping
the Almighty after' the dictates of our own
consciences.
I must now revert to other scenes, and gath-
er up some broken threads to my narrative
which have been left to give place to other his-
torical incidents. My acquaintance with
Sarah Ann Whitney, eldest daughter of
Bishop N. K. and Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
whose name is mentioned in one of my father's
letters, I began to make in the Spring of 1842.
Though our parents had long been associated,
and we had known each other since the school-
days of Kirtland, but as she was some four years
older than myself, who had entered my teens
but a few months previous, I had never
thought of becoming a companion to her.
I had grown up very fast and my father
often took me out with him and for this reason
was taken to be older than I was. I really
thought it curious that Sarah Ann should take
such a fancy to me. My first introduction
into her circle was at a party given in honor
of her seventeenth birthday, in March, 1842,
in the Masonic room above Joseph Smith’s
store. The latter her father had charge of,
and his family occupied a small house adjoin-
ing it. This was quite a select party. Among
them were the daughters of Elder Rigdon,
Bishop Higbee’s sons, the Miss Pierces, (Mar-
garet Pierce Young being one of them) and
Rachel, Mary and Mary Ann Ivins, the for-
mer, now Rachel Grant, were cousins, with
some of their brothers and many others too
numerous to mention, were among the guests.
The Prophet spent a little time with them, but
took no part. I believe that I was the young-
est and I know that I was the most bashful, so
much so that I declined nearly every invita.
tion to take part in their various games. If
there had been dancing I might have passed
through with a better grace, but dancing was
not so much approved at that time, at least
was not so commonly practiced among the
Saints. Sarah Ann’s brother Horace, who was
twenty months her senior, made one of the
party but had never dreamed of such a thing
as matrimony with me, whom he only remem-
bered in the earliest school days in Kirtland
as occupying one of the lowest seats. He be-
coming enough advanced, soon left the one
taught in the red schoolhouse on the flat
and attended a higher one on the hill, and
through our moving to Missouri and Illinois
we lost sight of each other. After the party
was over I stopped the rest of the night with
Sarah, and as her room and his were adjoin-
ing, being only separated by a partition, our
talk seemed to disturb him, and he was impo-
lite enough to tell us of it, and request us to
stop and let him go to sleep, which was proof
enough that he had never thought of me only
as the green school girl that I was, or he would
certainly have submitted gracefully (as lovers
always should) to be made a martyr of. No
brother and sister could be more affectionately
devoted to each other than were Horace and
Sarah Ann. He had always been to her like
a guardian. This I heard from her mother
previous to our intimacy, and it made an im-
pression upon my mind as being admirable
and praiseworthy in an elder brother. Soon
after this event he was engaged to accompany
Amasa Lyman and others, as clerk, to the
Southern States, where they went to preach
and transact some business for Joseph, and
after a short absence they returned. He was
a printer by trade, and was employed by Don
Carlos Smith until the death of the latter,
whom he loved as dearly as an own brother.
The next Autumn after his return from the
South the Bishop moved his family into a
house on Parley Street, nearer to us. About
a year after her birthday party she invited my
brother and I to attend another small party
which, to me, was very pleasant and far more
enjoyable than the other, there being present
only a few select friends. The Prophet was 
there during the early part of the evening,
and some peculiar remarks which he made, I
remember, gave food for talk and no little
amount of wit which passed from one to the
other after he had left; and William and I
talked it over after we returned home, of the
enjoyable time and the peculiarities of Joseph.
Soon after this, on the 12th of May, 1843,
Horace left for the East to visit his mother’s
parents, who were then living in North
Canaan Co., Connecticut, and other of his con-
nections in Ohio, remaining away over a year.
He and Joseph Kingsbury were in Kirtland
when they heard of Joseph’s and Hyrum’s
death, and they returned to Nauvoo as quickly,
as possible. It was not till the summer after
he had gone East that I learned of the exist-
ence of the plural order of marriage, and that
the Spring of 1842 had seen his sister Sarah
Ann the wife of Joseph Smith. My father
was the first to introduce it to me; which had a
similar effect to a sudden shock of a small
earthquake. When he found (after the first
outburst of displeasure for supposed injury)
that I received it meekly, he took the first op-
portunity to introduce Sarah Ann to me as
Joseph’s wife. This astonished me beyond
measure; but I could then understand a few
things which had previously been to me a
puzzle, and among the rest, the meaning of his
words at her party. I saw, or could imagine,
in some degree, the great trial that she must
have passed through, and that it had required
a mighty struggle to take a'step of that kind,
and had called for a sacrifice, such as few can
realize but those who first rendered obedience
to this law. It was a strange doctrine, and
very dangerous too, to be introduced at such 
a time, when in the midst of the greatest trou-
ble Joseph had ever encountered. The Mis-
sourians and Illinoisians were ready and deter-
mined to destroy him. They could but take
his life, and that he considered a small thing
when compared with the eternal punishment
which he was doomed to suffer if he did not
teach and obey this principle. No earthly in-
ducement could be held forth to the women
who entered this order. It was to be a life-
sacrifice for the sake of an everlasting glory
and exaltation. Sarah Ann took this step of
her own free will, but had to do it unbeknown
to her brother, which greived her most, and
also her mother, that they could not open their
hearts to him. But Joseph feared to disclose it,
believing that the Higbee boys would embitter
Horace against him, as they had already
caused serious trouble, and for this reason he
favored his going East, which Horace was not
slow to accept. He had had some slight sus-
picions that the stories about Joseph were not
all without foundation, but had never told
them, nor did he know the facts till after his
return to Nauvoo, when Sarah hastened to tell
him all. It was no small stumbling-block to
him when learning of the course which had
been taken towards him, which was hard for
him to overlook. But Joseph had always
treated him with the greatest kindness from 
the time that he came to live in his father’s 
house in Kirtland, in fact they had attended 
the same school and studied Hebrew together, I
and had pitched quoits and played ball togeth-
er many a time there and in Nauvoo, and he
could hold nothing against him now he was
dead. Joseph was noted for his child-like love
and familiarity with children, and he never
seemed to feel that he was losing any of his
honor or dignity in doing so. And if he
heard the cry of a child he would rush out of 
the house to see if it was harmed. Sarah
felt when she took this step that it would be
the means of severing her from the happy cir- :
cle in which she had moved as one of their
guiding stars. She was called proud and
somewhat eccentric; but the influence that she
seemed to hold over one was almost magnetic.
I found her incapable of professing anything
which she did not feel, and that she was a most
pure-minded, conscientious and God-fearing
girl. Our friendship dated from that period,
and we became, as much as is possible, like
“the two halves of one soul.”
Bishop Whitney was not a man that readily
accepted of every doctrine, and would ques-
tion the Prophet very closely, upon principles
if not made clear to his understanding. When
Joseph saw that he was doubtful concerning the
righteousness of this celestial order he told
him to go and enquire of the Lord concerning
it, and he should receive a testimony for himself.
The Bishop, with his wife, who had for years
been called Mother Whitney, retired together 
and unitedly besought the Lord for a testi-
mony whether or not this principle was from
Him; and they ever after bore testimony that
they received a manifestation and that it was
so powerful they could not mistake it. The
Bishop never afterwards doubted, and they
willingly gave to him their daughter, which
was the strongest proof that they could possibly
give of their faith and confidence in him as a
true Prophet of God.
The following verses, written about the time
of the death of the Prophet and the gloom
that shrouded the city, are not published be-
cause of their literary merit, but they indicate
a pathos and warm hearted tenderness, and al-
though simple in language, express the love
and good feeling entertained by the members
of the choir and band foreach other, the
reverence in which they held the Prophet, and
their intense love for the City of Nauvoo.
They will be likely to remind many of the
older Latter-day Saints of the scenes in which
they took an active part.


A SONG FOR THE CHOIR.
How cheering to meet with so many true friends,
Companions in sorrow and joy, without end;
We spend a few moments in happy delight,
But 'tis time to go home, so, my dear friends, good night
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
We’ll return to our friends and companions at home.
But alas! we have lost Brother Joseph! He’s gone
To rest for a season from sorrow and pain—
He's gone to prepare us (then let us not mourn)
In a mansion of bliss, an eternal sweet home.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
How cheering the thought of our endless sweet home.
Let praises to God In the highest be given,
Let angels above shout His praises in heaven;
Shout, ye Saints on the earth, for the time will
come
When we’ll meet Brother Joseph In an endless
home.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
Hallelujah to God an eternal sweet home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


O GOD! SAVE THE BAND.

O God! save the Band whose hearts are all one
To sound forth thy praises with music and song—
To sound forth thy praises in marches so grand,
And play the sweet tunes of, God save the Band!

O God! save the Band from affliction and woe.
From sorrow and death, and all of their foes;
In concert to live while on earth they shall stand,
And join in the chorus of, God save the Band!

Let the trumpets sound lond and clari'netts as one,
And the piccolos keep time to the beat of the drum;
Let the trombone’s deep tones echo wild through the
	land
To the spirit of love of, God save the Band!

Let cornopean’s soft notes in unison be heard,
And bugles add strength to the praise of the Lord,
Let the Saints in splendor with colors so grand,
March forth to the tune of, God save the Band!

We ask that the Twelve may regard us in love,
And lead us to play with the Band that’s above,
Where Joseph and Hyrum forever will stand
And join the rich strains of, God save the Band!

O God! save the Band, in full chorus we’ll join,
And pray that our spirits with Thine may combine;
And all that is evil we’ll ever withstand
And pray without ceasing, O God! save the Band!


OH GOD SAVE NAUVOO.
When we pray for all blessings to equally flow,
For the gathering and kingdom of Christ here below,
For the good of all people, the Mormon and Jew,
For a more perfect union we’ll pray without
ceasing—
O God save Nauvoo.
When you pray for old Israel, now scattered afar.
For the nations and kingdoms degraded by war,
For the world in its blindness and wickedness too.
For redemption as promised, then pray without doubt-
ing—
	O God save Nauvoo.
When you pray for your foes, both without and within
For the captive in prison, the exile in sin,
When you enter your closet as Christ told you to,
And ask of the Father, then pray in the Spirit—
	O God save Nauvoo.
To be Continued.


A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
[Continued.]
 It is true of women as well as men that
wo reverence greatness in those who lived in
former ages, while we pass by the virtues and
heroism of those around us without notice.
The past is hallowed, to be sure, and we
do well, to revere the great and good who have
lived and labored in former times, but it is
also right and proper to render honor and
praise where ever it is due to merit; and this the
Latter-day Saints should be able to do in a
way that need not be offensive.  It is good to
feel that one’s labors are appreciated, although
the glory of all efforts made to build  up
Zion belongs to the Lord, and should be given
to Him.
 Sister Presendia has been a woman of great
integrity of character and capable of intense
spiritual force, from her first connection with
the Church, consequently manifestations of
power to her through the gifts of tongues, inter-
pretation of tongues and visions has been quite
remarkable.  These blessings have been
scattered over the interval of time from her
coming to Kirtland up to the present and have
helped her to bear with exemplary patience
and heroic fortitude the many trials, deep and
dark, as well as persecutions through which
she has had to pass in this eventful half cen-
tury, for it is now nearly fifty years since she
first believed in the true Gospel.  It is not
possible, nor would it be wise to dwell or
elaborate upon incidents of this kind; those
we have given are sufficient to show that such
gifts are a part of the religion which we have
embraced, and not a myth.
The Huntingtons removed to Missouri, and
Mr. and Mrs. Buell also went up with the
Saints and settled in Washington township.
Clay Co., me. They were living at that place
when Joseph and the brethren were im-
prisoned in Liberty jail, when Sister Presendia
visited them on two different occasions. Wm.
Huntington, the brother of Presendia, was one
who was with the Prophet in that dreadful
prison.  Sister Presendia gives the following
account of her visits, which have only once
been published in the “Women of Mormon-
dom:” “In the month of February, 1839, my
father, with Heber C. Kimball and Alanson
Ripley, came and stayed over night with us, on
their way to visit the Prophet and brethren
in Liberty jail.  I was invited to go with
them.”
“When we arrived at the jail we found a
heavy guard outside and inside the door.  We
were watched very closely, lest we should leave
tools to help the prisoners escape.”
“I took dinner with the brethren in prison;
they were much pleased to see the faces of
true friends; but I cannot describe my feelings
on seeing that man of God there confined in
such a trying time for the Saints, when his
counsel was so much needed.  And we were
obliged to leave them in that horrid,prison,
surrounded by a wicked mob.”
“While in prison, the brethren were present-
ed. with human flesh to eat.  My brother Wm.
Huntington tasted before the word could be
passed from Joseph to him.  It was the flesh
of a colored man.”
“After my second visit to the prison with
Frederick G. Williams, the prophet addressed
to me the following letter.”
“This letter I have preserved as a precious
memento dearer far than gold. It was pub-
lished for the first time in the “Women of
Mormondom.”
“Liberty Jail, March 15th, 1839.
Dear Sister:
“My heart rejoiced at the friendship you
manifested in requesting to have conversation
with us; but the jailer is a very jealous man,
for fear some one will have tools for us to get
out with He is under the eye of the mob
continually and his life is at stake if he grants
us any privilege.  He will not let us converse
with any one alone.
“O! what a joy it would be for us to to see
our friends.  It would have gladdened my heart
to have had the privilege of coming with you;
but the hand of tyranny is upon us; but thanks
be to God it cannot last always; and He that
sitteth in the heavens will laugh at their
calamity and mock when their fear cometh.
	"We feel, dear sister, that our bondage is
not of long duration.  I trust that I shall have
the chance to give such instructions as have
been communicated to us before long; and as
you wanted some instruction from us and also
to give us some information, and administer
some consolation to us, and to find out what is
best for you to do, I think that many of the
brethren, if they will be pretty still, can stay
in this country until the indignation is over
and passed.  But I think it will be better for
Bro. Buell to leave and go with the rest of
the brethren, if he keeps the faith, and at any
rate, for thus speaketh the Spirit concerning
him.  I want him and you to know that I am
your true friend.
“I was glad to see you.  No tongue can tell
what inexpressible joy it gives a man to see
the face of one who has been a friend, after
having been inclosed in the walls of a prison
for five months.  It seems to me my heart
will always be more tender after this than it
was before.
“My heart bleeds continually when I contem-
plate, the distress of the Church.  O that I
could be with them!  I would not shrink at
toil and hardship to render them comfort and
consolation.  I want the blessing once more to
lift my voice in the midst of the Saints, I
would pour out my soul to God for their
instruction.  It has been the plan of the devil
to hamper and distress me from the beginning,
to keep me from explaining myself to them,
and I never have had the opportunity to give
them the plan that God has revealed to me.
Many have run without being sent, crying,
“Tidings, my Lord,” and have caused injury to
the Church, giving the adversary more power
over them that walk by sight and not by faith.
Our trouble will only give us that knowledge to
understand the mind of the ancients.  For my
part I think I never could have felt as I now
do if I had not suffered the wrongs which I
have suffered.  All things shall work together
for good to them that love God.
“Beloved sister, we see that perilous times
have truly come and the things which we
have so long expected have at last began to
usher in; but when you see the fig tree begin
to put forth its leaves, you may know that the
summer is nigh at hand.
“There will be a short work on the earth; it
has now commenced.  I suppose there will
soon be perplexity all over the earth.  Do not
let our hearts faint when these things come
upon us, for they must come or the word can-
not be fulfilled.  I know that something will
soon take place to stir up this generation to
see what they have been doing, and that their
fathers have inherited lies, and they have, been
led captive by the devil to no profit.  But
they know not what they do.  Do not have
any feeling of enmity towards any son or
daughter of Adam.  I believe I shall be let
out of their hands some way or other, and
shall see good days. We cannot do anything,
only stand still and see the salvation of God.
He must do his own work or it must fall to the
ground.  We must not take it in our hands to
avenge our wrongs. “Vengance is mine, saith
the Lord:  I will repay.” I have no fears; I
shall stand unto death, God being ray helper.
“I wanted to communicate something and I
wrote this.  Write to us if you can.
			&c., 			J. SMITH, JR."
	This letter to Sister Presendia will be read
with great interest by the Saints, and all
people must admire the simplicity of expres-
sion and humility so perfectly in harmony
with the character of a true prophet of God,
and so unlike a false prophet or teacher.  A
prisoner in the hands or at the mercy of a
mob who hungered for the blood of the Saints,
his people that he loved better than his own
life, deprived of his counsel under the most
trying circumstances, persecutions on every
hand, yet how nobly he speaks in his letter,
how grand and lofty the sentiments therein set
forth!
To be Continued


If you wish success in life make persever-
ance your bosom friend, experience your
wise counselor, caution your elder brother.
and hope your guardion.
	A young lawyer lately approached David
Davis with a question as formidable as that
Senator's physique—nothing less than might
he pay attention to a young lady of wealth,
Mr. Davis' ward. The decision was reserved
for a day; when rendered as follows it con-
tained a formidable hint: "I cannot give my con-
sent, not because you are poor and depend-
ent upon your profession, but because you
are in the habit of incurring needless debts,
without knowing or caring how you are to
pay them."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	-	Editor.
Published semi-monthly. In Salt Late City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher Woman's Exponent,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1883.


SWEET IS LIBERTY.
"Sweet to us is Liberty, and Bondage odious."

	How appropriate are these words to the peo-
ple of Utah.  How significant at the present
time.  Every one who has in his veins the
blood of freedom must feel keenly the thraldom
and oppression of the enforcement of the Ed-
munds law as interpreted by the Commision-
ers.  The very men and women whose ances-
tors helped to found this great government
and establish republican institutions, to be de-
prived of the franchise without judge or jury,
or any opportunity of defence whatever; such a
policy pursued by those who profess to be ad-
ministrators of law and justice, is sufficient to
make men feel the utmost indignation in their
hearts and to protest strongly against such in-
justice, and exclaim "free we were born," and
there is no power to subdue the free-born soul,
though they may disfranchise and thus punish
men and women for something unknown and
unsubstantiated.  "Kings themselves hold no
dominion over the free will.”
 The people of Utah have rights that ought
to be respected by the general government,
but how has it been?  What aid has been
given to them in settling the great American
Desert?  This is what has been done, to cry out
against them, to beseech Congress to stop their
proselyting, to hinder them from gathering peo-
ple from other nations, seeking to make it an
international question; to take from them every
local position of trust or emolument, so that
they shall have no voice in the disposal of their
own taxes, or any revenue from their own in-
dustries; to put the men who settled this
country and opened up its agriculture and
manufactures under the feet of these who
would despoil them of their worldly possessions
break down their institutions, and deprive them
of every right that a free people are entitled to
enjoy.
	The clamor has been so great and so general,
that without inquiring into the facts, newspa-
pers will publish and republish the most auda-
cious falsehoods against the "Mormons," and if
any are bold enough in the face of public opinion
to defend their cause and tell the truth, they are
immediately assailed and upbraided as having
joined the "Mormon" Church or been bought
over, etc.  Every scheme and cunning plan has
been resorted to, it would seem, to deprive this
people of liberty of conscience, and yet they are
not conquered, much as their enemies have
have conspired against them; though many of
them were not permitted to vote at the last
election.  And because it happened there were
a few women who could take the registration
oath (bad as it was made) and cast a vote for
the man of the people's choice, these would-be-
friends and protectors of women, great in
their own esteem, and loud in their demonstra-
tions of freedom to womankind, set to work to
petition Congress to annul the woman's suf-
frage act passed by the Legislature of Utah.
What nobility of purpose!  How magnanimous! 
How anxious to protect women they must have
been! They excuse themselves by saying,
"these women vote just as their husbands do!"
Well, what of that, if they vote as they wish to?
It sometimes happens that whole families vote
for one man in Massachusetts and in other
States.  Is that a crime?  Not there! In con-
tradiction of the assertions made that wemen
are compelled to vote as the husband does,
we can positively assert that no man ever
asked us a question of this kind, nor have we
ever heard any lady of our acquaintance say
her husband or any other man ever sought to
influence her vote.  Women have their own
free agency in Utah and are quite as indepen-
dent in their opinions as any women on the
face of the earth.  The officials sent here
by the United States government know this
is true.  Moreover, they know that woman
suffrage has worked no evil whatever, and not
one of them can truthfully make an assertion
to that effect.  Yes, women are influenced
to vote by their own ideas of right and justice.
They want men to fill public offices that they
know to be honorable and upright, and not those
who would take from them every vestige of
liberty.  A woman who goes to the polls and
deposits a ballot, feels her political indepen-
dence and that she is virtually part and parcel
of the great body politic, not through her father
or husband, but in her own vested right.  It is
better to represent yourself than to be repre-
sented by another, is most true in this particu-
lar, and applies with quite as much force to the
ballot as upon any other question.  If anything
will give woman a desire to think for herself
and form opinions of her own, and make her
feel the need of informing herself on subjects
connected with the laws and government of her
country and interested in the general welfare,
it will be the practical exercise of the ballot.
	The mother, it is very generally conceded;
forms most essentially the character of her sons
as well as her daughters, and according to her
superiority of endowments, she imparts strength
and force to their capabilities; the im-
portant responsibilities of the ballot will most
certainly add to her attainments and give tone
and balance to her femininity of character, and
thus will she be able to impart to her offspring
thoss requisites and that higher home education
that will help them to reach a higher standard,
and who knows but through the advancement
of women, and their political emancipation,
the laws may be better adjusted and a broader
plane may be reached for all humanity.  At
any rate the experiment is worth trying.
	So far Senator Edmunds has not succeeded in
debarring the women of Utah of their franchise,
although he and others sought to deprive them
of this inestimable privilege.  One would think
Judge Black's logical and magnificent argument
for Utah ought to have put an end to this ever
recurring quibble, whether "Mormons" should
be tolerated or not, on account of their religious
belief; but although the Judge is a most learn-
ed and able lawyer, yet many people will not
listen even to the soundest argument, because
their prejudice is so great.  They do not com-
prehend liberty for all people of whatever creed
or nation, vouchsafed by the Constitution, nor
that Congress shall make no law abridging re-
ligious liberty.  Judge Black's argument com-
mends itself and will certainly be read with
great interest by the honest and intelligent
who are not blinded by bigotry and a desire to
crush the "Mormons."  Those who voted for
the passage of the Edmund's bill perhaps were
not aware that they were striking a deadly
blow to religious liberty in the United
States, To pursue the policy towards this peo-
ple that the anti-Mormons recommend would
be to change the laws and ordinances of the
local government, and overrule and tread under
foot law and order as maintained heretofore,
once the pride and boast of this beautiful and
quiet city, and arrogate to themselves every
vestige of the power of office and make the peo-
ple of Utah a set of serfs and vassals.
 But there is still some power vested in the
people of Utah, they are not all disfranchised
and they appreciate the meaning of the word
liberty, and they are undoubtedly capable of
maintaining the rights of freemen.  They know
they have the right on their side, and God and
the right are a great majority.  Honor to Judge
Black and all such noble minded men, who
dare stand up boldly and plead the cause of the
weak and down-trodden.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Women’s Conference of this Stake of
Zion will be held in the 14th, Ward in this
City, on Friday and Saturday, 9th and 10th inst.
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. each day.
The Relief Society will convene on Friday and
a full attendance is particularly requested.
On Saturday morning the Primary Conference
will be held probably in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall. Saturday Afternoon will be
the Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. It is
expected the officers of these several organiza-
tions will interest themselves in circulating
notice of the Conference, that every society
and association may be well represented by
its members. Secretaries should be prompt in
sending in their reports.

	WE have received, by courtesy of the author,
a copy of "The Life of Nephi," recently
issued from the office of the JUVENILE IN-
STRUCTOR. It is the ninth book of the Faith
Promoting series, and is quite as good, if not
the best of them all; it is written in the
peculiarly original style of the author, Bro.
George Q. Cannon. It will give the young
reader most excellent ideas of the character
and life of the great and good prophet Nephi.
His example is one worthy of emulation by
the young of this generation. This book will
be a most important one in the libraries of
the young people. To read such books will
enrich the mind, and strengthen all the
faculties that are calculated to make the
character noble and exalted. Good reading is
one of the delicate luxuries our young people
should indulge in, but they cannot be too
careful in the choice of books; parents can-
not be too particular in selecting reading
matter, there is great danger to the young
in reading as well as in association, and to
allow a child to read everything is to allow
the mind to grow up to weeds of the rankest
character that are likely to choke out all the
beautiful germs that always require care in
their training. "The Life of Nephi" contains
100 pages and is for sale at the office of the
JUVENILE, price 25 cts. It ought to have a
wide circulation, the merits of the book de-
mand it. Such sketches written will be likely
to encourage the reading of the Book of
Mormon which is sadly neglected by many.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints is expected to re-
port semi-annually to the General Confer-
ences in this city, held in April and October, its


complete statistical and financial condition.
In order to make this report properly, it is
necesary to receive particulars of all organiza-
tions of the Relief Society in our own and for-
eign countries. Therefore, when such organiza-
tions exist that are not included in the several
Stakes of Zion here at home (that report
through the Stake Secretary) they should be re-
ported separately in branches to the Secretary
of the Central board, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
Salt Lake City, Utah, Box 785, as soon as prac-
ticable, now and hereafter twice a year, in time
for the general reports. As we are aware there
are many of these branches of the Relief Society
that have never reported at all, we would sug-
gest that in the first report made they give
date of organization and what Elders officiated
in organizing; names of officers and such other
data as relate thereto; that all may be recorded
in perfect order, and in a thorough business-
like manner. Hoping that this request may
meet with a ready response, and ever pray-
ing for those engaged in this great and good
work, we are your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH, Pres.,
			SARAH M. KIMBALL, Sec.,
	Central Board Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]
		A SERMON ON CANVAS.
	One of the most eloquent sermons we have
ever experienced, and certainly one of the most
marvelous ever preached through the medium
of the painter's art, is on exhibition at the Dore
Gallery, 35, New Bond Street, London. We refer
to the mammoth painting by M. Gustave Dore,
entitled "Christ leaving the Praetorium," al-
ready celebrated in Europe and America, and
pronounced by competent critics to be the  most
wonderful production of palette and brush
which the present age can boast. It was exe
cuted in Paris, fron 1867 to 1872, but as the work
was not uninterrupted, it can scarcely be said
to have occupied that period in painting. As
a matter of fact, the time expended on it was
less than three years. It was in a forward but
unfinished state at the beginning of the Franco-
German war, and during the siege of Paris lay
carefully folded up and hidden away in the
earth, to preserve it from injury by shot and
shell or other impending casualties. At the
close of the bloody and ruinous strife it was
resurrected and brought forth from its fiery bap-
tism and burial, and, as if still further a figure
and type of the Divine character it portrays,
perfected and placed on high to elicit the won-
der and admiration of the world.
	The first, though far from most important
feature which strikes the beholder of this beau-
tiful and sublime specimen of art, is its immen-
sity. The canvas containing it is no less than
twenty feet in height by thirty in width, and
takes up one entire side of the Gallery. The 
figures covering it, of which there is a veritable 
multitude, are life size, and so strikingly life-
like, that at first sight they seem to be actually
moving about upon the canvas, thus investing
the picture with an inexpressible charm while
clothing it in all its fearful reality. The subject
is explained by the title—“Christ leaving the
Praetorium," the artist having chosen for the
theme of his masterpiece that thrilling episode
in the history of our blessed Redeemer, where
He, after being tried and condemned before
Pilate, is descending the steep stairway leading
from the Praetorium or Hall of Judgment on
His way to Golgotha, the scene of the cruci-
fixion.
	The figure of Christ, to use the language of
the writer of an excellent critique on this cele-
brated picture, "is nothing short of an inspira-

[COLUMN 2]
tion." We have never before seen a portrait of
the Savior—and we have seen many styles,
both ancient and modern—which came any 
where near suggesting, in our opinion, a correct
or consistent idea of Him who died that man
might live. All other artists, whose ideals we
have examined, in their over anxiety to make
him appear beautiful, have simply rendered
him effeminate, and in nearly all paintings
descriptive of his Passion, in order to depict the
intensity of his sufferings, have imparted to
the countenance an expression of despair and
pain as undignified as it is ordinary and repul-
sive. The e fe tures, together with the stereo-
typed corons, blazing halo or moonlight back-
ground for the head, as unsightly and unnatural
as the feathered wings given to this day by
Christian limners to their angels and immortals,
have invariably spoiled, for our taste, every
pictorial representation containing them. But
Do e, with the characteristic daring of true
genius, has departed entirely from these tradi-
tional customs and given us in this sublime
creation—the spirit of a God in the body of a
mortal man—something that we can truly feel
approaches the inimitable likeness of One who
was indeed fairer and gentler, but at the same
time mightier and more powerful than all the
sons of men. Even the time-honored scarlet
robe is dispensed with, and in its stead the god-
like form of the noble Sufferer, full of grace, of
gentleness and unassuming dignity, is arrayed
in a garment as white as the purity of Him
who wears it. The head is crowned with thorns,
from every barb of which, buried deeply in the
brow it encircles, trickles a tiny rivulet of blood,
not far enough to disfigure the heavenly beauty
of the face beneath, but enhancing its calm and
patient expression, and imparting to it such a
vivid phase of reality that instinctively our
hands go up to our own foreheads as if to re-
lieve by counter pressure the cruel anguish of
the uncomplaining Martyr whose sublime suf-
fering we behold. The hair and beard of the
Savior are of a sunny auburn, and interweaving
the tresses that fall gracefully upon his shoul-
ders, course streams of deeper scarlet from the
wounded brow above. The eye has a wonder-
ful expression. Full of anguish softened by pa-
tience, and of holy indignation kept down by a 
compassion more divine. There is no weakness
in that look. It is the face of manhood, of
Godhood in distress. No petty anger gleams
in that celestial eye, but from its wondrous
depths the soft rays of pity shed their lustre
like the stars. It is the look of a martyr going
willingly to his grave, the aspect of a King, all-
conscious of the power he could wield, but un-
willing to exercise it for his own preservation or
the punishment of his persecutors. Around
the head plays a delicate halo, so soft and sub-
dued as to be all but unnoticeable, not as if put
there by the painter's hand, but as if emanat-
ing from the face itself, or as if the cloud-
hung skies, already dark with the impending
shadows of Divine displeasure, had rifted 
sufficiently to send forth a single ray of light
on the sorrow-bowed head of the mighty Suffer-
er, and while the dove-like sign of the Holy 
Ghost descended upon him, the voice of the
Eternal Father was again heard whispering:
"This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well 
pleased."
	The Savior, for the moment, is standing
alone, freed by the repellant force of his own
majesty, from the desecrating touch of those
who are thirsting and clamoring for his blood
The broad flight of steps down which He is
slowly wending his way, is besieged on both
sides by the excited populace, frantically eager
to catch a glance at or gloat insultingly over the 
downfall of the despised Nazarene, and only 
restrained from offering violence to his person

[COLUMN 3]
by the protended spears of the Roman soldiery,
engaged in clearing the path towards Calvary.
The balconies and high places on either hand
are also filled with excited faces and swaying
forms, bent forward in attitudes of the in-
tensest interest. At the foot of the stairs are
the huge forms of the malefactors lifting up the
heavy wooden cross which is about to be placed
upon the delicate shoulders of Him who in
that shameful burden bore the sins of a fallen
world. To the left of the picture, a little way
from the bottom of the steps, pressed back by
the spear shafts of the unfeeling soldiers, and
hemmed in by the [------] crowd, appear two
female forms, one of them pale and delicate,
though very beautiful, arrayed in blue and
white, whose sad face, sinking frame, downcast
eyes and sweet and silent expression of sorrow,
touching enough to melt the heart even of a
stone and to fill the eyes of all who behold her
with tears, contrast strangely with the wild
and vehement grief of her companion, who,
throwing up her hands and uttering a despair
ing cry, sinks down upon the ground where
she is in momentary danger of being trodden
under food by the heedless and howling multi-
tude. The first is Mary, the Virgin Mother,
through whose tender soul the prophetic sword
is even now piercing, but who has braved the
agony of the ordeal and dared the danger of
the occasion, to obtain a passing farewell
glimpse of Him who is her soul's idol, the be-
loved Being to whom, but three and thirty years
before, she had given mortal birth. Her com-
panion is Mary Magdalene.
	On all sides gleam the distorted visages of the
rabble, their eyes glistening with hatred and 
their tongues uttering execrations. One can
almost hear the shouts of "Crucify him! Cruci-
fy him!" swelling up from their maddened
throats. Here and there amid the throng may
be picked out faces that suggest for their
owners members of the Apostolic Twelve, sad,
silent and non-committal, the trembling victims
of human hope and fear. More than half way
up the steps, a little in the rear and to the left of
the Savior, stands a group of three persons,
richly appareled in sacerdotal robes, with
haughtiness of mien and malignant triumph
stamped on every feature. In the foremost of 
these we recognize Caiaphas the High Priest,
and in the others, one bent with age and the
other more youthful, his no less cruel and envi-
ous kinsmen and associates-Annas and Alex-
ander.
	But there is one face, in all that motley
throng, upon which it is fearful to gaze.
Second only to that of Christ in power of attrac-
tion, though for a far different reason, and so
hideous of aspect as to send a shudder through
the soul of the spectator, what shall we say,
what can we say of the countenance of Judas,
the accursed! Half hidden by the crowd, yet
plainly conspicuous from the position he holds,
not daring to see or be seen by Him whom his
polluting kiss betrayed, wistful to fly yet power-
less to move, and feeling, notwithstanding his
concealment, that the all-searching eye of the
Master is even now reading the secret thoughts
of his heart, he stands as if riveted to the spot
by the conscious horror of his crime, glaring
gloomily askance from behind the green'sh cowl
which lends additional repulsiveness to his
features, and quailing like a coward at some in-
visible fo[-], endeavoring in vain to quiet the
pangs of conscience which are darting like poi-
soned arrows through his soul. It is indeed a 
fearful sight. The quintessence of horror and
remorse! Perdition personified! Hell in one
human countenance! Awful even to gaze at,
what must it have been to endure! As we
stand spell-bound before that terrible picture of
misery and guilt, our sympathy for the con-


demned Savior is turned into pity for the
wretch who betrayed Him. And well may he
be pitied. No man need suffer hell who looks
and feels as that man does. No wonder the
Son of God could commiserate his murderers,
and invoke the clemency of heaven upon the
ignorant, unthinking rabble who clamored for
his sacrifice. “Father forgive them, for they
know not what they do!" But for Judas the
apostate, the betrayer of his brethren, the shed-
der of innocent blood, the wi ful sinner against
light and knowledge, what remaineth for him?
Alas! nothing, nothing but that “certain fear-
ful looking for of judgment and fiery indigna-
tion” that shall devour the adversary and his
dupes. Go thy way, thou doomed and desolate
soul! Hide thy vi[-]age in the tomb where
sleep forever all hopes of thy redemption.
Thou hast betrayed the innocent blood, thou
hast sold the Lord of life unto death, and writ-
ten in a hand of fire damnation upon every 
lineament of thy existence. Go thy way, thou
scorched and blasted being, but think not to
escape thy visitation, for though thy body turn
to dust, and earth that shall curse thy name
would fain repudiate thy memory, yet thy
spirit shall live on, live on in endless torment,
where the worm that dieth not and the fire
that cannot be quenched shall inflict upon thee
the terrors of that dreadful, but for thee merit-
ed punishment, the end of which no man
knoweth.
 In the dim perspective, near the portals of
the Hall of Judgment, having the statue of
C[-]sar and an in erior view of Jerusalem in the
background, are outlined the forms of Pilate,
the Roman governor, and Herod, the tetrach
of Galilee, who “were made friends together”
that same day, the former, distinguished
through the gathering darkness by his long
red toga, appearing by his attitude and g[-]sture
to disclaim all responsibility for the tragedy
then being enacted—the “judicial murder” of
the sinle[-]s Son of God. There are various
other features, though we have mentioned the
main ones, of this remarkable creation,
which lack of time and limited space pre-
clude from notice, and which, like all the rest,
are only to b[-] appreciated by being seen.
“Christ leaving the Pr[-]torium” is a master-
piece, both of conception and execution, a ser-
mon to whose silent eloquence the dullest ear
could not listen in va[-]n. M. Dor[-] has numer-
ous paintings, all of them excellent, and many
magnificent, but the one we have attempted
to describe is undoubtedly the crowning effort
of his life, eclipsing by its sunlike splendor
the brightest of its rivals, and compelling
them to shine with the subdued radiance of
its [-]atellites.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1
AN OPEN LETTER.

ADDRSSED TO "HOMESPUN" AND ALL THOSE
DEAR SISTERS WHO HAVE SO KINDLY AND
SO SWEETLY SENT IN THEIR NAMES
AGREEABLY TO HER SUGGES-
TION, IN APPRECIATION
OF MY WRITINGS.

MY DEAR SISTERS:
	I hope you have not thought me tardy
and unappreciative in not having ere this
acknowledged the compliment you have all
so kindly and so sweetly paid me. At first
I wanted to give time for the sisters to re-
spond, and then I became very ill through
a severe fall that confined me to the
house for six weeks, and deprived me of
vital energy; but never, no never, did
your kind letters and that beautiful column
of names, become dim on the tablets of

[Column 2]
my heart and brain; but I spent much
time in considering how I could suitably
acknowledge it. At last I have come to
the conclusion, that as it was mooted through
the columns of the EXPONENT that would
be the fittest receptacle for the expression
of my feelings in regard to the sweet
compliments paid to me; and hence for that
purpose I now take pen in hand.
	It was something so entirely unexpected,
and so unique in the design, that for a long
time I stood, as it were, with my finger on my
lips, musing on so rare an event in my hitherto
"sequestered vale of life." My writings will
tell that the thought of what is called fame
is not in my private lexicon. Like the bird
upon the tree, I sing my song, or tell my tale,
and these have often made for me a sunshine
in the shade, and brought to my heart its own
reward; it peoples solitude with beings con-
genial to me, and keeps the heart and brain
from rusting; nay, it polishes both with a
brightness that defies time and age. So you
will see there is considerable self in it after all;
but at last sweet voices break in upon my soli-
tude and words of loving commendations fall
upon mine ear—what do I hear? Listen! I am
told that I have blest—that I have comfort-
ed—that I have elevated and called forth a de-
sire to emulate and do likewise, etcetera.—and
most especially the etcetera! This has caused me
to rejoice, has fanned the dying flame of inspira-
tion and caused me to rise and shake off the
dust that might by illness have gathered on
my brain and the first effort is a few lines to
express my thanks to those who have thrown
over me this genial infllittlee. Again I look
at the host of tributes lying before me and I
read prayers for my health and strength long
to continue, for length of days to continue my
loving work,and then—but no, I must not
repeat more of those sweet words, that I hug
to my heart, for praise from such pure, noble,
generous, unsophisticated spirits, make dia-
monds and rubies and priceless gems ot earth,
appear as dust on the balance to my enrap-
tured, grateful and appreciative soul! I entreat
each dear loving sister to take my words and
apply them especially to herself and in return,
I pray and believe that your sweet prayers
will be heard in the Court of Heaven, and
answered upon my head; and I ask for you, my
sisters, similar blessings upon each one of
those dear names that form a halo of love
around my brow. May we meet, if not on
earth, in the glorious eternities that lie before
us, for I feel there is the tie of love and
congeniality around us, that is not of the earth,
earthy. Again accept my grateful thanks and
more, my rich appreciation of the medal of
honor you have so elegantly presented to me
and believe that living or dying I shall "turn
the leaf to read" your sweet appreciation and
loving words.
	Accept the heart and hand of your apprecia-
tive friend and sister,
				HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 19, 1883.


IN MEMORIAM.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 14, 1883.
Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sarah Haigh,
who departed this life Jan. 29, 1883, aged 56 years.
Whereas an all-wise providence has called from
us by the hand of death, our beloved und respected
sister who was present with us at our last meeting;
therefore
 Resolved That we recognize in the death of our
sister Sarah Haigh the loss of an able, efficient and
worthy teacher and co-laborer in the 4th Ward Re-
lief Society.
 Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors
and devotion to duty us worthy the fellowship and
highest respect of he all.
Reaolved, That we condolo and deeply sympathize


with the bereaved family and friends in the loss of a
kind wife, affectionate mother, worthy teacher, and a
good and respected citizen.
Resolved, That these resolutions be Epread upon our
records, and that ft copy be furnished the bereaved
family, also the Woman’s Exponent for publication!
Yours respectfully,
Susan Sperry.
M. E. Taylor, Secretary.
“Dearest Sister, thou hast left us,”
Gone to meet the friends of yore;
Where your kindred and your loved ones
Have preceded you before.
Weep not for your wife, dear Brother,
You will meet her if you’re true
To the cause of truth and virtue,
And your onward course pursue.
And her children all will miss her,
That dear face they loved so well,
And her kindness they’ll remember.
While upon the earth they dwell.
Cecelia Kirk.


R S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
WILLARD CITY PRIMARY.
Proceedings of our last Primary Quarterly
Conference, at Willard, Feb. 10th, 1883.
We had a programme arranged previously,
consisting of songs, recitations and dialogues.
The children, with willing hearts, performed
'the parts assigned them. We held meeting in
the morning, commencing at 10 o’clock by
singing and prayer; and dismissed at 12
o’clock. Some of our little folks reciting
pieces reminded us of the ancient prophecy,
“Out of the mouths of babes shall praises be
uttered unto the Lord.”
We held a party in the afternoon, commenc-
ing at 1 o’clock. Our boys numbered up to
sixty-five, and girls seventy-five, Bishop
George Facer and counselors made the
children a surprise, consisting of plenty of
candy and nuts, which pleased the children
very much. We closed our party at 6 o’clock.
We also held a concert the 17th of
January. The singers were members of the
Primary, and under the direction of Bro.
Lewis D. Edwards, who takes a great delight
in teaching our Primary in the art of singing.
From your co-workers in the Gospel,
Jane Owens, President-
James S. Perry,
David A. Harding,
Secretaries.
TAYLOR, APACHE CO., ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Our Primary held a Fair, Dec. 13th, under
the auspices of the officers of the Association.
The Fair was opened at 10 a.m. by singing
and prayer. There was a general attendance
of the people of Taylor and Snowflake. The
children showed considerable interest in pre-
paring articles for the occasion. There were
two wreaths of wool flowers made by girls of
seven and eleven years old. A nice case and
cross neatly ornamented with wax flowers by
a girl nine years old. One boy seven years
old made and painted a garden rake, two boys
made and painted two baby cradles; their ages
were nine and ten. One boy fourteen years
old made an axe handle, window sash and
broom. There were four pairs of stockings
knit by girls from six to eight years old. One
girl nine years old neatly ornamented a cross
with shells and wool flowers; there was one
wagon neatly made and painted by a boy
twelve years old; a girl twelve years old pieced
and quilted and carded the wool for a quilt,
one girl thirteen years old crocheted a tidy;
There was a great variety of other things;
such as mottoes, comb-cases, ornaments of card
board, Btraw braid, hair and wool wristlets;
crochet and knit lace, four pictures paitned


and framed by a boy thirteen years old, be-
sides many other articles which were very
creditable. There was a great variety of cakes
and pies nicely made by the little girls, and
sold at auction for the benefit of the Associa-
tion. The exercises that were rendered by
the children were worthy of praise. A pleas-
ing feature in the programme was the reading
of the manuscript paper, "Banner of Truth"
edited by a boy thirteen years of age, and it
was very creditable to the children of the As.
sociation. Closed by singing and prayer. Of-
ficers at present are as follows. Emma E.
McCleve, President. Rhoda E. Perkins and
Cornelia Woods, Counselors. Anna Standifird
Sec., Jane Perkins, Treasurer.
					ANNA STANDFIELD,
								Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 151


PRIMARY PARTY AND FAIR.

	On the evening of the 15th of Dec., 1882,
the Primary Association of the 2nd Ward of
Richfield gave their President a delightful
surprise. It was planned entirely by the little
folks, to whom great credit is due for the man-
ner in which it was conducted.
	At the hour appointed every-thing was in
readiness, and a conveyance was sent for the
President and her Counselors, who were great-
ly surprised and pleased.
	After dancing awhile, a bounteous repast
was partaken of, and heartily enjoyed, after
which the President and her Counselors were
each presented with a beautiful shell box by
Bp. Joseph L. Horne, in behalf of the com-
mittee. Dancing was then continued until
12 o'clock, when the company separated, all
feeling amply repaid for their trouble.
	New Year's Day was celebrated by a Fair,
given by the Primary Associations of both
wards, under the management of the Presi-
dents and Counselors of the Associations. It
was held in the Society Hall, doors opened
at 9 o'clock a. m. and closed at 4 o'clock
p.m. A programme was arranged and
songs and recitations were delivered at in-
tervals during the day, by the members of
the Associations. The articles were useful
and ornamental, reflecting great credit on
the little folks, for their industry and in-
genuity. We mention a few: quilts, tidies, em-
broidery, pillow shams and slips, wool and
paper flowers, stockings, a framed picture
of French embroidery, a braided rug, mats
and pin cushions, a straw hat, card board
work and pastry, done by the little girls,
a street car, spinning wheel, roller, nutmeg-
grater, ladders, hay racks, drawings, whips,
halter, nose sack, hammer, a jumping jack,
corn; potatoes and beets, these last made
and raised by the boys.
	CELIA E. BEAN, President,
	MINNIE A. FARNSWORTH, Counselor.
Richfield, Feb. 12th, 1883.


PLEASANT PARTY AT LEHI.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We had a very enjoyable time on the 15th
of Feb., it being the monthly meeting of the
Relief Society. The teachers and members of
the same got up a party in our new meeting
house for President Standring, to welcome her
home; she, with her husband, was called to
St. George to work in the Temple, and they
had been absent five months. She was es-
corted to the Hall by her Counselors, Mrs. M.
P. Thomas and M. J. Powell; arriving there,
what was her surprise to see about seventy-five
of the sisters assembled and the tables set
with the bounties of the earth. When they
were all seated, Bishop T. R. Cutler said he
wished in behalf of the sisters of the Relief


Society to present President Standring with
a black silk dress pattern and trimmings, as
a token of love and respect which they felt
towards her and appreciation of her labors
amongst them. After dinner President Stand-
ring spoke a short time, expressing her sur-
prise and returning thanks for the good will
which had been manifested towards her by the
sisters, also gave a short account of her labors
in the Temple, and how she had enjoyed them.
Bros. Winn, Anderson, Yates, Bishop T. R.
Cutler and Mrs. M. P. Thomas made some ex-
cellent remarks. Meeting was dismissed by
Bro. Anderson, and all went home feeling that
it had indeed been a feast of fat things, both
spiritually and socially, and one that will not
soon be forgotten by those who attended.
	M. A. STANDRING, Secretary, R. S., Lehi.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS.
LETTER TO MRS. H. M. WHITNEY.
			Kirtland, Ohio, Jan. 28th, 1883.
	My dear Helen: *  *  *  It is not likely
you have heard of the great change that
has come to our household. For the first time
“the mystic gate” has opened for one of our
number to enter the unknown realm, and my
dear mother* has passed on ’before us. How
can I tell you of the glorious change? We
had not expected it for months yet; I saw for
some three or four days that she was sicker
than usual.  *  *  I say it was a “glorious”
change! She had been up and we were just lay-
ing her down, and she said, “lay my head this
way,” while the pillows were being arranged
we saw the expression of pain and suffering
and unrest, she had worn for so many years,
changed to one of sweet calmness and repose.
There was simply a cessation of breathing, 
without a gasp or motion. Oh, in that mo-
ment, when I saw her dear life going out!
*  *  How I wish you could have seen here.
She looked more like the mother of long ago
than she had for years; she longed, oh, so 
much, for this release; and we can not wish
her back, for we believe she is “better now,”
as I feel is true of all the countless dead.
It was her 79th birthday and it was Sabbath
evening—the hour of retiring to rest. We
kept her till Thursday.  *  * * She always
expressed a fear of being buried alive. I
have felt as though her death should be pub-
lished in the papers there, as there are so
many scattered through Utah who once knew
her here. I do not know where to address
Adelia and many others. There were three
of her six children here at the burial, but I
was the only child who had the privilege
of witnessing her last moments. Oh, I am so
glad and grateful that I was here! It was a
beautiful death-scene, that would have to be
seen to be realized. But, alas, my dear Helen,
the thought is with me that of her present
condition we may know nothing; I feel the
poverty of the situation, and could wish my-
self as rich in faith as you are. *  *  Will
I ever attain to it?  *  *  You are too kind
and thoughtful of me to send papers so often.
*  *  I  thank you and appreciate your
kindness. Was glad to see you were going to
put in pamphlet form what you know of the
introduction of Polygamy. I would like one
of them. * * Had you heard that the
April Conference of the Re-organized Church
was to be held in the Temple here? They
have commenced to repair and restore it; but
where are those who once thronged its courts?
	Father is past 85, but is very well for one
of his age. Eveline lives in Iowa, thinks of
coming to see us, but her health is very poor.
Her husband is President of the Bank at
Mapleton. Eber is in Florida, Milton in
	*Charlotte E. Bond.

[Column 2]
Michigan, and Myron in Boston.  *  * Did
you know that a son and grandson of Brigham
Young called on us last summer? The grand-
son had just graduated at West Point.  * *
Don't you think Brigham's son looks ever so
much like his father? I wish I could see him
again; I "fell (woman like) in love" with
him. You were with me when mother was
baptised by Brigham Young at the back of 
your house in Mendon. Do you remember it?
How is Bates Nobles? Do you ever see him?
Are you ever coming East? When is your
son Orson coming home? I hope you will
write me when you can and as oft. I am
very poorly much of the time, but yet do a
great deal of work.
				Yours with love,
							M. E. BOND.


A FEW OF MY VIEWS.

	I believe that every kind and charitable act
that is wrought by the spirit and influence of
divine grace, or through love and respect
to the word of God, the same will be recognized
and approbated of God in calls where suffering
humanity required those acts, whether the sup-
plicant be saint or sinner, although I think the
latter has sometimes been vainly snbstituted as
a foundation for objection and excuses for neg-
lect even in circumstances of special need; but
this I consider is no model for us who profess
to be the disciples and followers of Jesus
Christ, for we do not acquire our virtue or
system of practice, precepts and rules through
the wicked influence where there is no founda-
tion; but we have better rules which teach us
to love our enemies, and I believe that gospel
charity, whether it be of words or deeds, being
administered in the spirit of loving kindness,
will, with God's help, result in much good, and
if the effect does not immediately appear, the
administration may, after many days, be
brought to remembrance; but let faith and
works be combined in all our acts of kindness,
that they may be approved of God and attend-
ed with divine blessing; then we shall see the
afflicted rejoice, and if we labor for righteous-
ness sake, our reward is sure. Then finally,
let us strive with all diligence and pray ear-
nestly, that our hearts become sanctified to God,
pure and holy, that all we do may be done
with an eye to His glory, for by our works we
shall be judged. I believe that in this great
and last dispensation of the fullness of times,
there will be much required of the people of
God, both to do and endure, and without the
whole armor of godliness, we shall be found
wanting. I feel for one that I have much to
do and much to learn before I shall be able to
accomplish, altogether, a good purpose in this
point of view, but by the grace of God I do
not feel at all discouraged, for the gospel truly
grows brighter to me, and I am resolved to
press toward the mark of the high calling,
closely adhering to my abiding motto, Faith,
Hope and Perseverance. I believe there is no
opposite power that will be able to stay our
onward progress unto victory, that we may en-
joy an eternal exaltation in the kingdom of our
Father, is my ardent hope and prayer,
					SARAH ANN REEVES.
	Centreville.


THE FASHIONS OF THIS WORLD
WILL PASS AWAY.

	There has been nothing of late said upon
this subject, although the extreme of fashion
is carried out by this people called the Latter-
day Saints; and in my way of thinking, death
is in its path. Mothers in Israel, I will make
an appeal to your reason: Do you not know
that you are sowing the seeds of dissolution in


[Column 1]
your little daughters by making their dresses
too short and narrow to keep them warm, and
exposing them to the cold? Would you rather
follow in the vortex of fashion than have a
healthy, rosy-cheeked child, full of life and
glee? Shall we be ever learning and never be
able to come to a knowledge of the truth?
	Where should the spirit of discernment and
wisdom be found if not in the mothers of Lat-
ter-day Saint children? Why are we blind
and ignorant? And why will we follow in the
world's path to fashion? Do we not compre-
hend truth enough to lead to common sense
practices, and dress our children according to
what is for their good, and what is right? But
no, corsets must be put on our little girls to
teach them to lace their bodies to grow un-
natural. If we expect to have the spirit taber-
nacled in the body, we ought to take a course
to make its house of clay warm and tenantable,
and also comfortable, to prepare it for future
usefulness and longevity; and take a course to
better the condition of the generation in which
we live. Mothers, wives of men who hold the
keys to unlock the mysteries of eternity, why
do we not comprehend the purposes of God
concerning us, that our posterity should grow
up as calves of the stall, perfectly developed,
fit subjects to carry out the great designs of
our Heavenly Father, to bring forth those
noble spirits reserved to hold the holy Priest-
hood. In consideration of these things should
we be carried away by the fashions of a
wicked world? It seems as though every thing
that is made to put on the body is made for
its destruction; shoes have to be made to the
fashion, the heel not set where it should be,
nor wide enough to stand on; the ankle is
twisted around, and sometimes almost dislocat-
ed; then another folly is invented, making
shoe tops so high, and lacing up the feet so
tight there is no chance for circulation or the
air to get to the feet, which is quite necessary
for health; this is Chinese fashion, to bind
up the feet, do we want to be stunted like
them? I will change the old maxim; give the
feet plently of air and keep them dry, and the
head from cold, a cold generally commences
in the head first, and then goes to the lungs.
	Teething children take cold from too much
cold air passing into their ears, causing many
serious complaints. Mothers, put a thin cap
on their heads until their heads are covered
with sufficient hair, and line their bibs with
flannel when they drool; and change often that
their vitals do not get chilled; do not put shoes
on them but socks with soles; by observing
these rules in dress you may save your child
pain and suffering. Dress your little girls
with waists, and let the weight be upon their
shoulders and not on the hips, which is injuri-
ous; dress your bodies for comfort, and to
promote health.
	Let us reason a little on the way we dress
our feet; boots for men, and high shoes for
women are very unhealthy; they confine stag-
nated air and dampness; slippers are best for
the house, with a thick, warm stocking, but as
men and boys have to be in the wet it shrinks
the leather; there should be elastic on the
top of the instep, to give more room to the
foot, and make it easier to pull on and get off.
	And you shoemakers, do, I beseech you,
put an inside sole in boots and shoes to cover
up those persecutors, nails and pegs. In win-
ter they are cold, and in summer, hot and very
uncomfortable to walk on all day. My little
grandson told me to look at his foot as he
held it up, his boot hurt him so bad he had ot
take it off, there was quite a sore place on the
bottom of his foot where a nail had run into
it. He said "it hurt him," I did not wonder
that it did when I felt into his boot, for such
a rough made thing to put on those little
tender feet, made me feel sorry, and I almost
wished that I were a shoemaker. I thought I

[Column 2]
would put some leather between the nails
and the foot, instead of on the top where it
did no good. The highest recommendation
for any trade, is to make an article well for
looks, ease, and comfort. If we support trade,
why not say how things should be made, in-
dependent of fashion?		M. A. M. P.


152	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE FIRST FEMALE NOVELIST.—We hard-
ly read of a single authoress during the
Middle Ages. In those days female educa-
tion was almost entirely neglected, except
in rare instances. If women possessed talent,
they were compelled to hide it. No
female novelist worthy of the name ap-
peared in England until the reign of George
III. The lady who first had the courage
to brave public opinion was Frances Burney,
the friend of Garrick and Dr. Johnson.
Miss Burney remained unmarried until she
was nearly forty years of age. Romance is
then supposed to exercise a less dominant
power, but she, nevertheless, had the impru-
dence to espouse Monsieur d’Arblay, a
French refugee, whose income consisted only
of a precarious annuity of £100. The
marriage however, proved a very happy one.
Macaulay describes Monsieur as an "honorable
and amiable man, with a handsome person,
frank, soldier-like manners, and some taste for
letters." The pair did not suffer from pov-
erty; the wife became the bread winner; and
not very long after her marriage her third
novel, "Camilla," was published, by which
she is said to have realized over 3,000
guineas.—Home Journal.


TRUE MANLINESS.—Every young man con-
siders it high praise to be called a "manly
fellow;" and yet how many false ideas
there are of manliness?
	Physical strength is not the test. Samson
was endowed with tremendous bodily powers.
He was a grand specimen of humanity. See
him rending the lion as he would a kid,
or carrying away the gates of Gaza! But
he was a weak creature after all, unable
to resist the wiles of an artful woman.
	Great intellect is not the test of true
manhood. Some of the most intellectual
men who have ever lived were not manly.
Lord Francis Bacon was a prodigy of in-
tellect. The sciences sat at his feet, extolling
him as their benefactor; yet we see him led
down Tower Hill, a prisoner, for swindling.
	Fast living is not true manliness. Some
men think that to strut, and puff, and
swear is to be manly. To some the es-
sentials of manliness are to "toss off their
glass like a man," "spend money freely
like a man," "smoke like a man," "drive
a fast horse like a man," forgetting that
virtue is true manliness. Temperance,
chastity truthfulness, fortitude, and benevo-
lence are the characteristics and essential,
of manliness.
	To be manly is to be honest, generous,
brave, noble and pure in speech and life.
The highest form of manliness is godliness.
Some one has said, "an honest man is the
noblest work of God," but the man who is
honest toward God and toward his fellow-
man—in short a Christian man—is the
noblest work of God.—John B. Gough


"So you are going to keep a school?” said
a young lady to her maid aunt. “Well, for
my part, sooner than do that I would marry a
widower with nine children.” “I would prefer
that myself,” was  the quiet reply, “but where
is the widower?”


MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and half a
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND 'THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Limeys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE !
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN's EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 11.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1883.			No. 20.


ADDRESSED
To Mrs. E.R. Snow Smith:
	In a quiet spot ’neath a cedar tree,
	Is a little grave very dear to me;
	A darling, my baby, lies buried there,
	Safe from temptation, and free from care.
	To-day is his birthday and yours, dear friend,
	And tenderest greeting to you I send;
	A sweet, sacred tie it seemeth to be,—
	That grave, this birthday, 'tween you and me.
	
	In his life’s early dawn he passed away,—
	Your life has been one long busy day;
	Why, wherefore, no mortal tongue can tell;
	God willed it so, He doth all things well.
	Time hath chastened my grief for the absent one
	In submission I say, Thy will be done.
	Dear friend upon this day,
	This milestone on thy way
	I've stopped awhile, ’midst work and care;
	Your history to read. Its pages fair
	Abound in noble deeds,
	From morn, through noon, still busy sowing seeds
	Of good, which will, and do bring forth 
	A harvest rich of love and faith.
	Methinks I hear recording angels say:
	"Another year of noble work to-day;”
	
	Could I but near you stand,
	See your face, clasp your hand,
	And say: “God bless her,—bless this, her birthday,
	And may it bring her happiness alway:”
	My heart would thrill with joy
	God grant we meet where bliss hath no alloy.
	A crown awaits you there, angels will sing
	Their sweetest song for your glad welcoming;
	For many souls can now more hopeful be
	Of heaven, for your faithful ministry.
	
	And I, in daily life
	As woman, mother, wife,
	Will set my standard high, as you have done,
	And nobly, truly work, till victory's won
	You have not lived in vain,
	Your life hath given joy, and lessened sin and pain.
	Your light doth shine brightly afar,
	Leading Jesus, as did the star
	Of Bethlehem. Faithful work, and noble aim!
	All womankind may love and bless your name.

	Accept this tribute of respect and love;
	We may not meet on earth, we'll meet above,
	That little grave shall as an altar be
	For prayer, and incense to your memory.
	When flowers bloom thereon, their fragrant breath
	Will tell of joy and heaven–after death;
	That winter's cold, like worldly strife,
	Is but the preface of a brighter life.
	And when the year goes round and brings this day,
	Beside that grave I'll think of you alway
						EMILY SCOTT.
Ohio, Jan. 21, 1883.


ANSWERED.

DEAR MRS. EMILY SCOTT:
	The grave—where'er that grave may be,
	Which forms a link 'twixt you and me,
	Will burst asunder and resign
	Its trust.
	Whose arms will then entwine
	The precious darling baby who
	Has been, and is, so dear to you?

		All things above and all below,
	Are bound by law; it being so,
	A law of God requires of you
	An act performed—a work to do,
	By which, for true affections aim,
	You may secure a legal claim,
	That you may clasp that baby dear,
	And into perfect stature rear


Its little form, in purity,
And glorious immortality,
Stern death will sever every tie
That is not based above the sky.

	Dear lady, I now testify
God has revealed a law whereby
The dearest of all earthly ties,
We may securely legalize;
To have—to hold—to enjoy forever,
Beyond the power of death to sever.

	Sec to it lady—'tis of more
Intrinsic wealth than golden ore—
Comprising more true, real worth
Than all the precious things of earth
Which perish with their use—'tis more
Of value than all worldly lore.

	Thanks for the kindly feelings you express:
My heart reciprocates with friendliness.
Methinks I see you sitting by that grave,
Absorbed in thought as deep as ocean's wave.
While there alone enrapt'd in reverie,
How strange that you, a stranger, thought of me!
Yet, if the curtains of the past were drawn,
And we our pre-existence gazed upon,
Perhaps life's contest fully might explain
We once were friends, and now are friends again.

	Important movements have head quarters where
The greater gifts and privileges are.
Here are the Temples of the living God—
From here His mighty work goes forth abroad.
Then leave that grave: angels will guard its sleep
While you secure the right that ba[--] to keep:
Prepare 'neath holy Temple roofs to tread,
And labor for the living, and the dead.
	Changes rush on—unique events appear—
We may clasp hands, and bless each other here.
						E. R. SNOW SMITH.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 1883.


THE CULTIVATION OF MIND.

	The thought that our actions here will either
enhance or retard our happiness in the next
world should be ever present with us. As
we progress in any branch of learning, our
preceptions are quickened or cultivated in re-
gard to it, as for instance in music; any triv-
ial mistake that would pass unnoticed by
others would excite our notice and offend the
ear, so with our moral preceptions. Quarrel-
ing and bloodshed, which seemingly delight
some gross natures, would make exceedingly
unhappy more feeling and sensitive beings.
	Virtuous actions are not always rewarded in
this life, as may be seen by reading the lives of
Phocion and Socrates; such lives serve to
remind base, despicable persons of their own
shortcomings, and appeal too strongly to their
better feelings, but instead of standing as
guides to a better life, often rekindle envy
and jealousy and the desire to pull down every
thing to their own mean standard, and these
are only two noble lives among the many
which have been taken or made miserable
through constantly walking in the narrow
path.
	Because the higher qualities often prove dis-
advantageous in this world, probably most
affecting the amassing of riches, it is no reason
why they will not, with knowledge, lead to
eternal bliss in the next, and as we are there
sure to meet sooner or later, those we have
benefited or wronged here, it is easy to perceive
that our heaven there will be in accordance
with our deeds done here.
	What happiness would we have in this life
without friends, and how is the tie of friend-


ship made but by kindred feelings based on
confidence, and as that could not exist between
conniving unscrupulous parties there could be
no friendship.
	From all the instructions given us relating
to our preparing for the next world, the cul-
tivation of the mind certainly takes the first
place, as through its enlightenment we are
prepared to receive or reject baptism and
other doctrines, and it is also certainly that
which prompts us to pure or vicious actions.
It can be cultivated in any direction.
	Prejudice is a "noxious weed" which should
not be allowed to grow, as it often overrules
our reason in the face of facts; this is often
the case in relation to the Book of Mormon,
for though no fault can be found with its
contents, many are prejudiced too much
against it to even read it.
	The following from the Millennial Star I
have often read with pleasure.
	"The Mind.—The Almighty gives mind,
man can only give example and education.
The natural minds in men are like the natural
fields in agriculture. There is every degree of
fertility, but they will all grow noxious weeds
unless cultivated and cared for."
							ANN FELLOWS.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER, THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
AND PATRIARCH.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	When Horace returned to Nauvoo he found
that a year or more had wrought great changes,
not only by the death of Joseph and Hyrum,
but other dear friends had passed away—num-
bers were married and others had grown up
till he could hardly recognize them, and
among the most noticeable was myself, which
fact his looks and words expressed the first
morning after his return, as he called to give
us, among other old neighbors, a friendly shake
of the hand. I was not yet sixteen, and
though the feeling between us then could not
rationally be called love, it was something
akin to it, admiration—which only needed
time and acquaintance to mature. I was con-
siderably tinctured with romance and enter-
tained the bright hope that I had already ex-
perienced my most bitter portion of the reali-
ties of life. His mother and sister were
pleased with the idea of our union, and the
latter had early expressed herself to that ef-
fect. Not very long after this Sarah and I
accompanied him and my brother William
across the prairie to Carthage, to see the jail
where Joseph and Hyrum had been murdered.
William and I had often passed through that
little town on the way to Ramus, to visit at
the brothers Perkins; but never before under
like circumstances or with such peculiar sen-
sations. The wife of the jailor very kindly
showed us up stairs. The walls of the room
had been whitewashed and the floor had been
scoured many times, but the stains of blood
were still quite visible, and we saw a number
of bullet holes in the door. We looked into
the cell, into which Willard Richards had
dragged Elder John Taylor after he was
wounded and covered him up, hoping that he
would be overlooked and his life spared to tell
the tale; not expecting that he himself would
ever escape alive.


[Column 1]
	﻿As we stood by the well-curb where Joseph
fell, Horace picked up a small chip covered
with blood, and which he still has in his pos-
session, though the blood is hardly discerni-
ble—nearly thirty-nine years having elapsed
since that awful tragedy was enacted, and
seemingly sanctioned by our nation, under
this grand Constitution which we had learned
from our earliest childhood to love and revere.
And no heed was paid to the wailing cries of
the bereaved, nor the solemn prayers of an
oppressed, weak and defenceless people, but
they were driven out with the supposition and
the hope that they would perish from destitu-
tion, cold and hunger.
	I copy the following incidents from my
father's journal. "May 28th, 1845. This
day the timbers were raising in the attic story
of the Temple, on the dome or steeple.
	"May 29th. Spent a short time at Bishop
Whitney's—had a good time talking of the
order of salvation.	*	*	In the evening met
with my brethren at Willard Richard's office.
*	*	We called on the Lord for rain, and for
the brethren upon the islands of the sea, for
those who had gone west, for the sick, and for
union. Great union prevailed.
	"May 30th. Sister Sarah M. Kimball came
and took myself and wife in her buggy.	*	*
I got out at Warsaw street. Went to General
Charles C. Rich's.	*	*	Then to Elder
John Taylor's, where I found the Twelve.
*	*	William Smith was dissatisfied, other-
wise the Twelve were one. Took dinner with
Elder Taylor. Mother Smith came into our
council at 2 o'clock to express her feelings be-
fore the Twelve—called us her children. The
feelings of the Twelve were expressed by our
President towards the families of the Smiths—
that we would do all that we could for them.
	"Sunday, June 1st. I went to the stand
*	*	Meeting was opened. I was called
upon to speak.	*	*	Spoke one half hour.
John Taylor followed, then President Brigham
Young spoke for some time. There was much
joy among the Saints, as we had not been on
the stand before for three weeks—had been
obliged to hide up. In the evening met at
Elder Richard's for prayer—prayed for rain,
had a good time and broke up at half past
one in the morning."
	That day was my mother's 39th birthday,
which my father mentions in his journal. The
2nd day of June he speaks of five of the
Seventies coming to dig his cellar, and says:
"We had a fine shower in answer to prayer.
We praised the Lord for His great goodness.
2nd day. Began to lay stone in my cellar.
*	*	The day pleasant—all peace and har-
mony in our city."
	About two years previous to this, a brick
addition was made to our log house. The log
part was now torn down and a two story one
of brick built in its place. Father had pur-
chased a good house and lot adjoining ours of
Brother John Tibbits, and presented it to my
brother William. The chamber of it we oc-
cupied until the upper part of ours was fin-
ished and painted, containing a parlor, two
bedrooms and a clothes-press to each, with
hall. The largest room, with exception of the
parlor, was mine, with two large windows, one
opened to the south and the other east,
towards the Temple. The rooms on the base-
ment were very similar. The hall passed east
and west, front, door opening towards the river,
and over it was a large stone on which my
father had his name engraven. This was the
first nice house that he had been able to build
us, his time having been previously engaged in
the Father's vineyard with his brethren, the
Apostles, and then, much of the time they
were obliged to keep themselves hidden or
disguised to escape writs being served on them.
They had to adopt different disguises,
which were sometimes very droll and ludicrous,

[Column 2]
and which afforded us no little amount of fun
and amusement. The last year spent in Nau-
voo, though it was not all gladness and delight,
was the liveliest, and I took more real pleasure,
and can look back to it and my associations
there as the brightest and happiest that I ever
experienced in that city. "Pleasures are bright-
est as they take their flight."
	I was a passionate lover of music, and had
so longed for the privilege of learning to play
the piano, and this I enjoyed during the sum-
mer of 1845. I had an accomplished lady
teacher who had received the Gospel in Lon-
don. My first lessons were given me on a
small piano standing in a milliner shop, which
was owned by the Miss Grays, then living on
Main Street. One of them is now Mrs. Rumel,
who has a large millinery establishment on
Main Street in this city. My teacher would
often praise my aptness in learning, and say
to me, "You will go ahead of me, Miss Helen,
for you have a voice to sing, which I never
had." President Brigham Young had a small
piano and invited me to come to his house
and practice with his daughter Vilate, who,
though younger than myself, had had previous
advantages, but was rather indifferent, and he
thought if I practiced with her she would take
a greater interest. Their piano stood in Sis-
ter Young's room, and her health being very
poor he proposed to have it brought to our
house when the upper part was done. This
pleased us both immensely. I never became
weary of practicing until after I heard it was
decided that we were to be broken up and
move to the Rocky Mountains. Though the
piano remained there through the winter I
felt no encouragement to continue taking les-
sons, though father tried to stimnlate me to go
on, and said, to encourage me, that they should
have the necessary material taken to manufac-
ture pianos and I should have one, but I knew
that I would forget it all; and we little
thought of its being so long before we got to
our destination.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
COTTAGE HOSPITALS.
FROM “WOMEN AT WORK."
	England is far in advance of this country
in her provision for her care of the sick in
small cities and towns, and the system of Cot-
tage Hospitals there in operation, is one which
we may study with advantage and adopt with
great benefit to the sick.
	Our large cities are, in general, well sup-
plied with hospital accommodations, but the
smaller cities and larger towns are lamentably
deficient in this respect.  Concerning the de-
sirability of providing these places with small
hospitals, there can be no question.  Especial-
ly are they needed in the larger manufactur-
ing towns, in which many of the employees,
are without a home, living in boarding places
and in case of accident or disease are but poor-
ly provided for, and many lives are lost in
consequence of improper care.  Any physi-
cian practicing in these towns well knows how
unsuitable are these boarding places for the
care of the sick, and often finds his labors
will be of no avail in face of the improper
conditions which surround his patient. How
diffierent would be the result, if the sick or in-
jured could be removed at once to a quiet
home-like cottage hospital, where, with a
trained nurse in charge, and attended by the
physician of his choice, he would also have all
the resources of the hospital at his command!
	The value of these small hospitals has
been well tested in England, during the past
twenty years, and their simplicity, the home-
like surroundings, and ready adaptability to
the needs of country life, have won for them a

[Column 2]
warm place in the regard of the English peo-
ple.  Two hundred and fifty cottage hospitals
are now in successful operation in that country,
relieving about 50,000 patients annually, who
contribute at least one-sixth the cost of their
maintenance to the hospital.  If this system
could be generally introduced into this coun-
try, its value would be  provided with hospital ac-
comodations, who are now deprived of their
advantages, many of whom would be willing
to pay a small sum weekly for the medical
care and nursing thus provided.
	A large outlay is not required, for the neces-
sary building need not be expensive.  In Eng-
land, the average cost of cottage hospitals,
having a capacity of about eight beds, is from
$4,000 to $6,000 each.  In my own experience,
with a capacity of twenty-five beds for child-
ren, $5,000 will about cover the expense of
land and building, of course, the cost of con-
struction will vary with the location, but there
is surely no town of 10,000 inhabitants, and
upwards, too poor to establish and maintain
one of these small institutions.
	A small hospital managed by ladies has
been in successful operation at Pittsfield,
Mass., for several years, another is contem-
plated at Newton, while a third, intended es-
pecially for children, has just been established
at Baldwinville, in the same State.  This is a
work for which ladies are well adapted, and
much of the energy now lying idle, or exerted
in wrong directions, might be profitably ex-
pended in the establishment and support of
cottage hospitals in every town of 10,000 in-
habitants in this country.
	The plan of operation may be very simple,
a small building, in a good location, can be
rented until desirable to build, and a nurse
placed in charge, with a woman in the kitchen,
and such other help as may be needed.  The
physicians of the vicinity will, I have no
doubt, be ready and willing to co-operate, and
can arrange their attendance so as not to inter-
fere with other engagements.  Each physician
is expected to take charge of the patients sent
by him to the hospital, and in England it is
customary to appoint one or more of the medi-
cal staff, in rotation, whose duty it is to look
after all the cases in the hospital requiring
especial attention in the absence of their
physician.  The medical director, as he is
called, is not to prescribe, except in an emer-
gency, for any but his own patients, but is to
carry out the wishes of his colleague, who is to
visit the patients under his care daily, and
order any alterations he may deem desirable.
L. W. Baker, M. D.


ELIZABETH MANNING HAWTHORNE.—Miss
Elizabeth Manning Hawthorne, the eldest
sister of Nathaniel Hawthorne, died recently,
at the residence of Mr. Appleton, at Mount
Serrat, Beverly, Mass;, at the age of eighty
years. She has lived a retired life for the
past thirty years in the old homestead where
she died. She was the eldest child of Nathan-
iel and Elizabeth Manning Hawthorne, whose
children were Elizabeth Manning, Nathaniel
the poet, and Maria Louise Hawthorne. The
youngest sister was lost on the steamer Henry
Clay, several years ago. Elizabeth was a lady
of pronounced literary tastes and liberal
culture. She was a writer, and was given
to much study, but so far as is known has
never given any of the fruits of her genius
to the world. She was two years older
than her gifted brother, who often said of
her that she could attain greater fame than
he had done, if she wonld apply herself to
literary pursuits. An ardent admirer of
nature, she was content to retire among the
woods and flowers which she loved.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 155


SILENT VOICES.

The voice of the heart, and the voice of the brain,
Their language is silent, but thrilling the strain!
What volumes they write! and what volumes they tell,
And the soul stores them all in its innermost cell.

At midnight, when sleep has forsaken the eye,
These voices come thronging, and sleep they defy;
And memory rising, obeying their call
Draws aside her sweet veil, or throws back her sad pall!

Alone on the mountains, these voices we hear,
Breaking sweet on the heart, on the brain, on the ear;
Transporting the soul to a land of its own,
And binding it round by a mystical zone!

In a voice without sound, they converse with the soul,
Defying restraint, and defying control;
'Tis a carnival sweet, that the spirit then holds,
And wraps the corporeal in magical folds!

'Tis a foretaste of that which in future will be,
A mirror upheld in which visions we see!
A picture presented—a realm of the soul,
Releasing the spirit from mortal control!

How we hunger, and listen to voices like these,
That come in the flowers, that come in the trees,
That come in the cataract, roaring and wild,
That has often our soul of its sorrow beguiled!

Let us often be silent, and watch for the time,
When such voices ring out in their mystical chime!
Such are often in mercy sent down from above,
Infused by the spirit of God!—who is love!

Oh life! earthly life! thy ENIGMA is grand!
Thy mystical units of elysian land !—
Thy whisp’rings bring balm to a sorrowing soul,
And it seeks not the magical charm to control.

'Tis like manna descending each day, as of old, 
And the same loving shepherd is watching His fold;
And His children are fed in a mystical way,
For the voice of the shepbord they love and obey.
								HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 21st, 1883.


﻿PATCHWORK.

'Tis not genteel, they tell me now,
	To make a patchwork quilt,
'Tis sign of poverty they vow
	And poverty is guilt

In worldly eyes—well let it be,
But you and I should clearer see,
I think it is a branch of art
That forms a good, important part
In home economy and joy,
And pleasant hours without alloy,
May thus be spent in social chat,
While fingers fly this way and that,
Forming designs of light and shade
Until a perfect piece is made;
And then the quilting, Oh how nice!
To meet in friendship and rejoice,
When work is done the circle spreads.
Mingling the white and golden heads
Of father, mother, sister, brother—
[If not your own, why then, some other,]
In pleasant play or may-be dance.
While jest and song the hours enhance;
From many a patchwork quilt I trace
Some well known name, some dear, dear face,
And from one star will spring anew,
Some time of love and friendship true.
Our parents loved those simple joys,
Shall we forget—their girls and boys,
And in the new-scenes scorn the old?
Ah no! there lies the purest gold,
And is not life all patchwork too,
Our thoughts and actions, false or true,
Pieces that go to form the whole
Great plan divine the Gods control;
Then be our station high or low
Let’s cut and fit the pieces so
That perfect shape and colors blend,
Praying that One above to lend
His wisdom where our own would fall,
Courage when our weak hearts would quail.
Then may our life work be replete
In all things perfect and complete.
									HOPE.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

	Many incidents worthy of record and evinc-
ing the dauntless courage of Sister Presendia
occurred while the Buells were living on Fish-
ing River, Clay Co., Missouri. Mr. Buell
was employed as carder, at a mill some dis-
tance from home, and his wife and family were
consequently very lonely, as the log house
they occupied was some distance from neigh-
bors, situated in the woods. Here in this se-
questered spot Sister Presendia lived with only
a young girl for her companion. And even
the girl who had come there on purpose to
teach in that district, of course left Mrs. Buell
entirely alone during the day, as her little son
George was old enough to attend school and
went with his teacher. She writes, "I used to
stay alone all day in the woods, my company,
the wild birds, and my music the cooing of the
turtle doves in the forest." In this very hum-
ble home, on the 24th of April, 1838, her first
daughter was born, but lived only four hours,
she called her Adeline Elizabeth. It is won-
derful how much hardship Mormon women
have borne; and under what peculiarly trying
circumstances many of the children of the
Latter-day Saints have been born.
	As an example of heroic courage, we are
proud to give the following. One day while
Mrs. B. was living in this secluded place, she
had occasion to go to the mill four miles dis-
tant; she drove her own team and took her
little son George with her. As she came out
upon the prairie she had to pass through a large
company of armed men going up to Far
West. She well knew their purpose. Their
horses were loaded down with bedding, spades,
shovels and cooking utensils, and there was a
terrible clatter of tin dishes. There were two
men who knew Mrs. Buell and spoke to her.
She says, as the horsemen rose to go up the
hill, she, with her team and little child, was
only a little to the left of them. The horse-
men called a halt—and dismounted, facing
the company towards Mrs. B. and the child,
holding their horses by the bits. Sister
Presendia says, "I thought of Mr. Carey, who
had a short time before been killed on the
prairie as he was returning home from the
mill. Then, for the first time in my life, I
expected to be shot. I asked the Lord in
silent prayer to let my only child go with me
if I should be killed, as my husband had en-
tirely lost his faith in the Gospel. I did not
hurry or urge my team forward, but went
steadily on over the hill, and the horsemen
stood looking at me, but the shock nearly
overcame me." Think of the trial of that
moment; and also of the brutality of men who
style themselves "protectors" of women and
children, to thus intimidate a defenceless
woman and her little child on an open prairie,
where there was no possibility of obtaining help!
It is too inhuman to bear thinking of. Those
who read this account will doubtless look with
still greater reverence on the white hairs of
this aged veteran in the faith. The same Fall
Mrs. B., while living on the river bank, had
another dreadful fright from these Missouri
mobocrats, who were anxious to drive and des-
troy the Mormons. One day six men rode up
to her door on horseback, all well armed.
They inquired if she had seen two men pass
by there on foot. She said, No, she had not;
then they crossed the river in search of them.
They had but just gone when two brethren,
Bro. Rust and Bro. Cleveland, came in; they
were in search of work. Mrs. B. imformed
them of the danger that awaited them if they
proceeded. She gave them something to eat
and to carry with them in their pockets, and
told them they had better go up the river and

[Column2]
back to Far West and travel all night as they
had certainly been watched for evil. The
brethren were often whipped and sometimes
killed if they could be caught outside of the
"Mormon" settlements.
	Later on in the season when the carding
was over where Mr. Buell had been employed,
he rented a grist mill and two carding ma-
chines, built a comfortable house for his fami-
ly, out of the woods, and commenced business
again on his own account, and run the mill
through the following winter. The persecutions
against the Saints grew stronger and stronger.
Mr. Buell having apostatized from the Church,
was possessed of a very opposite spirit to that
of his wife, who was strong in faith and fervent
in spirit. Sister Presendia prayed earnestly to
the Lord for her companion, that he might re-
turn to the faith, but his mind had grown very
dark and it was useless to reason with, or en-
treat him to see the error and doubt which
had misled and confused him. The Hunting-
tons were obliged to leave Far West at the
time of the driving of the Saints from Mis-
souri in the Spring of 1839, and Sister Pres-
endia felt entirely alone and forsaken. She
expresses it thus, "I never saw my mother
again. I felt alone on the earth, with no one
to comfort me, excepting my little son George,
for my husband had become a bitter apostate,
and I could not speak in favor of the Church
in his presence. There was by this time not
one true Saint in the State of Missouri to
knowledge."
	Sister Huntington (the mother of Sister
Presendia) died on the 8th of July following,
from hardship and fatigue brought on by the
merciless men, "who persecuted the Saints
unto death;" many were killed and many died
of hardships, others deprived of health, which
they were never able to regain.
	From that time on Sister Presendia suffered
greatly in her feelings, and was overburdened
with sorrow, and her mind saddened with the
griefs of the people she so loved, and she
obliged to remain away from them all, with no
one to whom she could open her heart. Mr.
Buell prospered in business and in a temporal
point of view, the family had an abundance of
everything necessary to make them in every
way comfortable.
	About this time another son was born to the
house of Buell, Norman Oliver, on the 31st
of January, 1840, which one can readily per-
ceive was directly after the dreadful outrage
perpetrated against the Saints in Mo. These
two boys, George and Oliver, both to grew man-
hood, married and had families of their own.
The next few years after the Saints left the
State of Missouri, some of the greatest events
transpired in the history of the Church.

To be Continued.


TO PUBLISHERS AND EDITORS.—Many
newspapers and magazines have been estab-
lished in the United States and Canada within
the last two years, the names of which do not
appear in any newspaper directory or cata-
logue. The publishers and editors of such are
invited to send copies and a full description of
their respective publications to the editor of
Hubbard's Newspaper and Bank Directory of
the World, New Haven, Conn., U. S. A.,
that they may be properly catalogued and des-
cribed in the forthcoming edition of that work
for 1883. Editors who kindly give this notice
an insertion in their columns will confer a
favor upon the Press of America.


It is hard to personate and act a part long
for where truth is not at the bottom, nature
will always be endeavoring to return, and will
peep out and betray herself one time or
other.—Tillotson.


156	WOMAN'S EXPONENT

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1883.


[Column 1]
THE DESERET HOSPITAL.

DESULTORY NOTES.

	We are often asked why there is not more in
the EXPONENT. concerning the Deseret Hos-
pital. To give definite particulars that the
public might like to know would occupy consid-
erable space, and would scarcely be of sufficient
importance to give so large a share of a very
small paper, which is published in the interest
of women generally, both young and old, and
not one particular organization or department
of either charity, industry, or politics. We
may say, however, with all safety at the pres-
ent time, that thus far the Deseret Hospital has
prospered. With the many difficulties to sur-
mount that ever attend the establishing of an
institution of this character, and, taking the
whole matter into consideration, it cannot but
be said the ladies so far have done well. To
be sure they were most of them inexperienced
in hospital work, but time, patience and per-
severance accomplish wonders when the heart
is interested, and certainly the ladies of this
city and adjacent cities and counties have mani-
fested a true spirit of benevolence and liberality
in bestowing of their means, and a desire to
help carry on this enterprise, which is most
praise-worthy and admirable. There has been
obstacles to encounter and emergencies to meet
which were not anticipated in the beginning,
but such things are incidental in all depart-
ments of life and work, and therefore, scarcely
need commenting upon. The people were ap-
pealed to for free donations to assist in furnish-
ing and fitting up the building, and the res-
ponse was general from both men and women,
as well as prompt and generous.
	A great many have feit very anxious to help
forward the institution by giving public enter-
tainments; perhaps, because they knew more
of the needs of such an institution, and it is
customary to aid in this way, and certainly
it has been a great blessing and help to the
Hospital. The proceeds of the concert given in
the large Tabernacle last July, under the direc-
tion of a very able Committee, Elder George
Goddard, Chairman and general manager of the
affair, did considerable towards helping this in-
stitution in its incipiency. Since then a Pri-
mary Concert has been given in the Elevnth
Ward in this city, and the proceeds handed over
to the Hospital, $41, from the children, exceed-
ingly good indeed for the little folks; of course,
a great deal was due to the excellent manage-
ment of Mr. Louie Felt and her associates in
getting up the entertainment.
	The Unity Club, which waa organized in
November, 1882, have made a donation of $500
(five hundred dollars) to the Deseret Hospital
for the benefit of that institution. It is certain-
ly most commendable in these ladies to work
and aid with material help, a place for the sick

[Column 2]
and injured to be cared for and made comforta-
ble as they could not be in their own homes.
Tne money given was the proceeds of entertain-
ments and parties, for which the members of
the club worked with all diligence and enthu-
siasm, realizing they were laboring in a charita-
ble cause for an institution just in its infancy,
struggling for permanent establishment.
	For years the sisters actively interested in
the Relief Society in this Church have seen and
felt deeply the need of a place of this kind.
But where to obtain the means to found a hos-
pital seemed to be the difficulty in the way of
its accomplishment. There did not appear
beforehand, at least in the minds of many, so
much apprehension about maintaining it were
it once practically started. However, having
undertaken this benevolent enterprise, the
ladies of the Executive Board find that it will
require continuous application to meet the
monthly expenses, as there are necessarily more
patients that can only pay a small sum towards
their care and treatment, than those who can
pay in full the expenses for board and medical
attention.
	Every person must know what it is to go into
an empty house and furnish it with everything
for comfort and convenience, and besides the
furnishings such as are necessary for family use
in a home, a hospital must have a dispensary
supplied with medicines, and also instruments
for operations of all kinds. In this respect the
Deseret Hospital is well fitted up. The instru-
ments were purchased in New York City, and
are of the very best material and manufacture.
	All the apartments and wards are neatly and
suitably furnished, and the accomodations are
such as the patient might enjoy in a home,
more than like an ordinary hospital. All the
people employed there strive to make the
house home-like and its inmates happy. Ser-
vices of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints are held in the reception room every
Sunday afternoon, and the sacrament is admin-
istered under the direction of the Bishop of
the Ward and his Counselors. The sick have
the privilege of the administration of the Elders
of the Church, which is certainly an advantage
and blessing to the suffering, which the Latter-
day Saints can appreciate.
	The medical board is ample for all emergen-
cies. Dr. W. F. Anderson, the regular visiting
surgeon, has an established reputation as a
physician, of more than a quarter of a century’s
standing in this community. Several lady
physicians are on the visiting and consulting
board who are well and favorably known as suc-
cessful practitioners and a house surgeon, who,
though a young lady, has already won laurels
in the profession, and made hosts of friends in
the calling she has chosen.


NO ADVERSE LEGISLATION.

	Congress has adjourned and comparatively
little has been accomplished, at lsast according
to the statements and dispatches received. This
people can congratulate themselves upon the
fact that the adverse legislation proposed by
anti-Mormons has all failed. None of the bills
proposing harsh or arbitrary measures having
passed this session, notwithstanding all the elo-
quence of famous senators wasted upon the
matter. One point has certainly been gained,
the seat has been given to the delegate of the
people's party from this Territory. The bill pre-
sented by the Utah delegate, which we publish
in this issue, was certainly more favorably re-
ceived than the opponents of "Mormons" would
like. The memorial of the committee was also
candidly considered and both the bill and the
memorial are such as can be recommended by


the people, in whose interest they were present
ed.
	The work of the Constitutional Committee
having been finished for the present session
they have returned home, and we shall proba-
bly hear more definitely what has been done
when the Committee meets in this City on the
10th of April next. However as it is we feel
satisfied all has been done that could be during
so short a time and with the bitter prejudices
that have been aroused and the antagonism that
has grown up in consequence of the falsehoods
and misrepresentations of those who are de-
sirous of making political capital out of the
Utah question.


MR. CAINE'S BILL.

	Hon. John T. Caine, on the 26th of last
month, introduced the following bill into the
House of Representatives:
	"A bill providing for the election of certain
officers in the Territory of Utah.
	"Be it enacted, by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Amer-
ica in Congress assembled, that at the election
to be held in the Territory of Utah on the first
Monday in August, 1883, the qualified electors
of said Territory may vote, not only for mem-
bers of the legislative assembly and other offi-
cers whose election falls upon that day, but
for all territorial, county, and percinct officers
in the same way and with the same effect as
they might have done on the first Monday in
August last, if the commissioners appointed
under the act of March 22nd, 1882, had not
failed to appoint registration and election offi-
cers: Provided, that their terms of office shall
expire at the same time they would have done
had they been elected on said first Monday in
August, 1882; and in the meantime the duties
of the said offices shall continue to be performed
by persons now holding said offices agreeably
to existing laws."
	The bill was read twice and referred to the
committee on the judiciary and ordered printed.


THE VOICE OF ONE OF THE POOR FE-
MALES OF UTAH.

	No man has the right to prescribe to another
what shall be his religious belief, and the
Latter-day Saints, who have added more to the
wealth of this nation than any other class or
colonists—by reclaiming and populating these
barren wastes, being the majority in this Terri-
tory claim the right of self-government, and as
Judge Black said, at the close of his argument
for Utah, (whose name we shall honor in con-
nection with others who have nobly plead the
cause of the oppressed,) "You have no author-
ity to legislate about marriage in a Territory; the
people of Utah have as good a right to their
religion as you have to yours." But if you, who
profess to have gained so much greater light
and wisdom, could show us a better way, or any
better fruits of true civilization, from your own
domestic relations, we would be willing to yield
the point. But when a people assume claims
and power which are unconstitutional and try
to force them upon us "by means flatly pro-
hibited" and "The right to say that the women
of Utah, or the men of Utah, shall not exercise
their religion as they may think it right and
proper, and that they shall be deprived of all
political power in this country because of their
entertainment of opinions upon this subject dif-
ferent from their own," and "that women who
are not found to be bigamists or polygamists," or
to have contracted this tie are to be disfran-
chised, and though we "Mormons" have never
infringed or violated the rights or claims of any


[Column 1]
﻿man or set of men, yet we are not to be allotted
even the claims of the robber or murderer or
criminals in general, but are to be convicted
and punished without judge or jury, we have
neither inclination nor intention to submit to
such an outrage quietly, without even a struggle.
And were we allowed to act upon our constitu-
tional political rights we would first expel from
our midst the characters who "openly and
notoriously" practice their immoralities and
also those who publish the lowest of slanders
against an innocent people, and it would in my
mind not "require the judgment of a court" to
remove such institutions. Let them cut out
their own cancer, which is the foulest blot that
could ever come upon civilization, and if the
feeders and supporters of these wicked and low
lived establishments were treated as they
should be they would not be permitted to vote
or to hold office. These criminal practices were
never countenanced in any "Mormon" com-
munity, while they were allowed to hold the
reins of government, but "where the carrion is
there will the eagles be gathered." This nation
is indebted not only to the "Mormon" men, but
to the "Mormon" women, and though we have
been wronged and borne our wrongs in silence
for many years and were willing to forgive and
"bury the hatchet," when we see that the very
worst enemies" to our Constitution are being
allowed to harass and afflict us, whom they
know to be the most peacably inclined, indus-
trious and enterprising class of people, and who
first colonized and made these once dreary and
barren deserts inhabitable, leaving no stone
unturned to rob and strip us again of our rights
as American citizens, and of every lawful
means of defence against the meanness and
violence the most corrupt set of lawless aggress-
ors that ever disgraced a nation, we do not
intend to yield quietly again, to be driven from
our happy homes, which are far dearer to us
now than were those which they robbed us of
in an early day and drove us into the wilder-
ness. We will publish our history and also
theirs, and expose to the world the abominable
schemos and hypocrisy of some of the wise and
learned of their "Scribes and Pharisees;" who are
trying to disfranchise the "Mormon" women
because, forsooth, we vote for the men of our
choice, being to our own interest to do so,
instead of for those who have openly acknowl-
edged themselves to be our most bitter enemies.
What an enormous "sacrifice" for the few Gen-
tile ladies who vote in Utah to deny themselves
this privilege long enough "to destroy the power
of the Mormon Church," expecting, as many do,
to share in the booty.
	We would call their attention to a time when
some were so very humaue as to propose the
right of suffrage to be conferred upon the "Mor-
mon" women that they might free themselves
from the awful bondage of the "Mormon"
Priesthood or hierarchy. This right having been
given us by the "Mormon" Legislature, over
twelve years ago, with the full consent of the
United States. We were not slow to avail
ourselves of it, and if we were in bondage and
felt our chains to be very galling we could most
assuredly have refused to live in, or sustain
plural marriage, and we are at perfect liberty, at
all times, to free ourselves if so disposed, and if
there was the least danger or necessity we
could call on this army—stationed here upon
the bench to protect us. This fact was proven
in an early day, when a few weak minded sisters
sought protection under the wing of Colonel
Steptoe's army, but which, I think, proved a
warning to others to beware of "wolves in
sheep's clothing." "Mormon" women are not
so ignorant as might be supposed, of the power
that they hold to declare polygamy illegal.

[Column 2]
But before Senator Edmunds and others allow
themselves to be convicted by overstepping their
authority in taking away our rights without
due process of law, they would do well to come
and visit some of "these poor females," for
whom they profess so much sympathy and'
wish to emancipate "from the slavery of voting.
(I wonder these words did not choke him)
Instead of trusting to the tales of those who are
using them as "cat's paws," and we warrant that
they "could get at the real opinion of the
"Mormon women," who are at liberty to speak
for themselves and are more than willing to
"give them the free exercise of those opinions,"
and they might possibly blush at their own
ignorance and bigotry, and return wi er if not
better judges of the human heart, and of the
superior blessings and privileges enjoyed by the
"Mormon" wives who have honored this Celes-
tial order. I believe that they would find more
advocates and those who would sustain this
order among the women than among the men.
Women are generally inspired by the strongest
religious motives; and they have the greatest
faith and courage to endure pain and the various
crosses in life. This has been demonstrated in
all ages. There are of course, exceptions to
every rule, but in the life of Christ, see the devo-
tion that was shown by woman. She was last
to linger at the Cross, and was first at the Sep-
ulchre. We read "when it was yet dark" and
"when the disciples went away again to their
own home" Mary still "stood without the Sep-
ulchre weeping," and she was the first to hear
the Savior's voice, who gave to her the message
to take to His brethren.
	I know of no plural wife who has felt fright-
ened enough to propose being divorced from her
husband, but I did hear of one man who, at the
first sound of the news that these commisioners
were to be sent here, gave to his second wife a
bill of divorcement. And I remember (not
many years ago) of a few dissatisfied men who
murmured against the authority of the Priest-
hood and when in darkness they sought revela-
tion from peepers and other spurious sources
and withdrew from the Church—and to gain
favor and popularity in the world they had to
put away their plural wives, though some had
become mothers and were devotedly attached to
their husbands and the parting between some
of them was enough to melt the hardest heart.
They had never given it a thought, when leav-
ing this Church that they would ever repudiate
any of their wives. But some of the first wives
gave their lords to understand that they had
no right to live with a plurality of wives out-
side of the Church, which they had withdrawn
from. So the virtuous portion sorrowfully sub-
mited to their fate with martyr-like fortitude
and the majority, losing what little light they
had fell into the worst darkness, spiritualism
and infidelity, and how much higher are they
now in the estimation of the world than are the
ones who held on to "Mormonism" and stood
out in defence of this Celestial principle of mar-
riage? I fail to see that they have gained any
thing; but they have lost every thing that was
essential to true happiness in this world and
all hope in the world to come. And as for the
demon jealousy, it flourishes more outside of
plural marriage than it does among the ones who
practice it whatever may be said to the contrary.
We all know and expect that our husbands will
acknowledge their wives before the world, there-
fore there is no deception nor necessity for prac-
ticing the system of hypocrisy and the awful,
vices of intrigue and lying which our most
zealous and over righteous accusers are addicted
to—encouraging secret transgressions; they
steal away from the only woman, whom they
honor with the name of wife, and indulge pro-

[Column 3]
miscuously without any regard to honor or mo-
rality, and many of them without the least
restraint, indulge in open profligacy, and then
adding insult to injury such characters set them-
selves up to judge us—denouncing the men and
the women who are "in the marriage relation"
as criminals, doomed to suffer any penalty which
they see fit to place upon us. But "people living
in glass houses should not throw stones." If it
is crime they wish to repress, let them begin at
home and first honor "that most sacred tie
which lies at the foundation of the home and
of society," (which we not only preach, but
paactice,) instead of saying, "I am more holy
than thou," because a new faith happens to
come in contact with the old rules and prejudices
and long established views of society, and their
opinions of "social order." "He that is without
sin among you let him cast a stone at us." But
we truly rejoice that we stand in our own posi-
tion to-day instead of theirs; for "he that is of
God heareth God's words," and the Latter-day
Saints have long been prepared for the scourges
and judgments which were to "commence at
the house of the Lord," and we see the calami-
ties already coming which were pronounced,
(through the Prophet Joseph Smith) upon
this favored nation, if they would not repent
and cease their persecuting God's people. The
things once viewed in the far future are now at
our doors, and do we rejoice at the sufferings of
these our fellow beings—even though some may
have sanctioned and had a hand in making these
wicked and inhuman laws to destroy and break
us up—rending assunder the dearest ties of con-
sanguinity, to rob and drive us again? No! there
is not one in possession of a Christian spirit, but
would be glad to save them if it were possible,
from the suffering which their own deeds are
bringing upon them. But when they not only
refuse to accept salvation when it is offered
them by God's chosen servants, and scorn the
warning voice, but continue to persecute them
to the death; they cannot eacape, for He has
long since decreed these things. We read in our
papers from day to day of the awful suffering
from disasters causing untold misery and an-
guish, such as no language has power to de-
cribe—sweeping thousands of God's creatures in-
to eternity without the least preparation or
warning, and to think that we have no power
to prevent it, and the only thing we can do is
to plead with that God of mercy, whose hand
has ever been over us for good, that he will show
mercy unto those who are innocent. But the
wicked of this nation have got a heavy debt to
pay. There are a few of God's predictions
which we see are being fulfilled. "Behold,
saith the Lord, I will bring plagues upon the
world, the sword, famine, death and destruction
I will hold my tongue no more. The innocent
and righteous blood crieth unto me and the
souls of the just complain continually. There-
fore, saith the Lord, I will surely avenge them,
and receive unto me all the innocent blood from
among them. Behold my people are led as a
flock to the slaughter. I will bring them with
a mighty hand and a stretched out arm.
	Woe to them that sin and keep not my com-
mandments! saith the Lord: Behold clouds from
the east and from the north unto the south,
and they are very horrible to look upon, full of
wrath and storm, and there shall be great fear-
fulness and trembling upon earth: and they
that see the wrath shall be afraid and trembling
shall come upon them. Fire and hail, and
many waters, that all fields may be full, and all
rivers, with the abundance of great waters, and
they shall break down the cities and walls—and
grass of the meadows, and their corn. Like as
thou hast done unto my chosen, saith the Lord,
even so shall God do unto thee, and shall deliver


thee into mischief—Thy children shall die of
hunger, and thou shalt fall through the sword,
thy cities shall be broken down, and all thine
shall perish with the sword in the field.” Our
God seeth all things, and He is surely avenging
the wrongs of an innocent oppressed people,
and our enemies will have no power to escape
the fierce judgments of the Almighty.
						H. M. Whitney.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 157


158	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Classes for instruction in midwifery and
obstetrics are being formed in the city in order
to meet the requirements of competent help in
this department of science.

	DR. R. B. Pratt, who has been teaching
for some years past, advertises her class will
commence in April. Terms thirty dollars for
the course, and twelve dollars for the books
used by the students. See advertisment.

	For sale at this office, Two Poems, by Bishop
O. F. Whitney, now on a mission in England.
The book is in pamphlet form, 10cts. per copy.
The proceeds of the sales are to be given as
a donation to the Deseret Hospital.

	IN the last issue of the EXPONENT we re-
published "A Sermon on Canvas" by O. F.
Whitney, but forgot to give him or the Millen-
nial Star credit for the article. We beg
pardon for the neglect and recommend the
article to our readers as a sublime and touch-
ing pen picture; those who read the descrip-
tion will feel as if they had actually seen the
artist's masterpiece.

	THE Conference of the women's organiza-
tions of Weber Stake was held in the Taberna-
cle, Ogden City, March 8, 9 and 10. Sisters
E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. H. Young went
up to the Conference on Thursday, but re-
turned the same evening, as the woman's
Conference in this Stake convened on Friday
and Saturday. Reports of these Conferences
will be published in the next number of
this paper.

	ON Wednesday, March 9, in company with
Mrs. M. I. Horne, we went to Coalville in
the interest of the Deseret Hospital. A meet-
ing had been previously appointed for half
past seven in the evening and a crowded house
was the result. The subject of the benefits of
hospital treatment for the sick and injured
was dwelt upon, and some committees were
appointed to make further arrangements for
the benefit of the institution.

	ON Saturday, March 3, an annual meeting
of the Primary Association of Farmington
was held at that place. Sisters E. R. S.
Smith, M. I. Horne and E. C. Clawson of
this city, went up on the morning train to
attend the meeting. Arriving at the depot,
they were serenaded by the Primary band,
who escorted them to the meeting house, play-
ing some enlivening music. The meeting was
well attended and the exercises ably conducted
by Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, who has been
untiring in her efforts to help the children
forward in their organizations. The pro-
gramme was interesting, the selections appro-
priate and very creditably rendered.

	ELIZA R. SNOW'S POEMS. The first volume
of Sister Eliza's Poems, which were published
several years ago in England, has been re-
bound and will soon be ready for sale. This
book contains many sublime effusions
which strike a harmonious chord in the heart
of every Latter-day Saint. "The Invocation
or the Eternal Father and Mother," a poem
entitled "Two Chapters of the Life of Presi-
dent Joseph Smith," "The Assassination of
the Prophet and Patriarch" and many other

[Column 2]
grand and touching pieces are contained in
this work. The Young People's Libraries
should be supplied with this work.

	Dr. E. S. Barney who has spent the last
five years in medical studies, most of that
time in some of the best medical colleges in
the East, makes quite an advantageous offer
to those wishing some obtain a knowledge of the
science of medicine and anatomy. Dr.
Barney offers for the specified sum of $2 per
week to take twenty-five students and provide
furnished rooms, bed, fuel, light, cook and
washwoman, making it something of a club ar-
rangement, as they will bring with them or
furnish their own provisions. The doctor will
give them free medical instruction, lectures on
anatomy, physiology, materia medica, surgery
and practice. This is certainly an economical
plan to work upon; particulars can be obtained
on making application by letter to Dr. E. S.
Barney, Box 555, Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs.
Barney was a very successful school teacher
for many years in this city, and has, by patient
application and her own efforts, risen to the
ranks of the medical profession. The offer
she has made should meet with a ready res-
ponse from the several parts of the country,
for it has certainly been made in good faith
and with an earnest desire to benefit human-
ity. A more extended knowledge of nursing
and obstetrics, and the laws of life and health
cannot fail to be beneficial to all.


RESOLUTIONS.

	Resolutions of respect to our President, Margaret A.
Lambert, who departed this life January 6th, 1883,
aged twenty three years, ten months and eighteen days.
	Through the providence of God we are again called
to mourn, the loss of one of our members by death, two
others having died within the year, and this time our
beloved and respected President, whose loss we deeply
mourn for we loved her for her kind and gentle man-
ners, her faithfulness and integrity in the cause of
Christ, her prompt and punctual attendance to the
duties of her office, and the exemplary life she led
worthy of imitation in both her public and private
career.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we condole with her hus-
band in his irreparable bereavement of a faithful and
loving wife and companion, and with her parents and
relatives and friends.
	May we long remember her saintly life, and emulate
her virtues, and her moral, religious and domestic life,
and may her infant daughter never know the want of a
mother's care, but live to fill up a life of usefulness.
	Resolved, that we present a copy of the foregoing reso-
lutions to the parents and husband of the deceased.
	Resolved, that we send a copy to the EXPONENT for
publication.
							ANNA LAMBERT,
							ELVA WOOLSTENHULME,
							EDITH ATWOOD,
											Councelors.
					ELIZA ATWOOD, Assistant Secretary.
Kamas, January 22nd, 1883.
	P. S. Since writing the above her infant daughter
has passed away.


﻿RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Ellen
Condie, who departed this life Febuary 21st, 1883, aged
seventy years.
	The following preamble and resolutions were unani-
mously adopted by the members of the Fourth Ward
Relief Society.
	Whereas, an Allwise Providence has called from us,
by the hand of death, our beloved and respected sister;
	Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our Sister
Ellen Condie, the loss of an able, efficient and worthy
teacher and co-laborer in the Fourth Ward Relief Society.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and highest
respect of us all.
	Resolved, that we condole and deeply sympathize


with the bereaved family and friends In the loss of &
hind wife, affectionate mother, worthy teacher and a
good and respected citizen.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon our
record, and that a copy be furnished the bereaved
family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for publication.
							MRS. SUSAN SPERRY.
							M. E. TAYLOR, Secretary.
	Salt Lake City, March 4th, 1883.


PRIMARY REPORT.

CHESTER PRIMARY.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I am happy to say that our little meetings
are well attended, considering our scattered
condition. We have had one Primary fair.
A large table was covered with children's arti-
cles, such as wool flowers and fancy card work,
hoods, stockings, and many other things that
I will not mention. We have had a visit from
Sister Helena Madson and her Counselors.
She is our Stake President. She is a very
kind lady. Our much beloved President is
not at home at present; when she is away we
miss her kind voice and wise counsel. I am
but thirteen years old and this is my first at-
tempt to write to you. I send a New Year’s
greeting to all my Primary friends. Praying
that our Heavenly Father will bless us all,
that His Spirit will rest upon us is my prayer.
	I remain, your sister in the Gospel,
						MINNIE ALLRED.
	P. S. Sister Wells, I am one of the little
girls that helped make the hair wreath that
was sent to you from Chester three years ago.
I thank you for the little Primary Hymn
book you sent me.			M. A.


LETTER FROM ARIZONA.

ERASTUS, APACHE CO. ARIZONA,
				January, 30th, 1883.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps a few lines from this out
of the way place might find a corner in your
delightful little paper. Last Friday, the 26th
of the month, was the birthday of one of our
good mothers in Israel, Sister M. P. Killian.
She is President of the Reief Society of this
place. Having recently lost her husband she
was feeling quite low spirited and cast down.
The brethren and sisters turned out en masse
and made things lively in the shape of a sur-
prise dinner, Sister Killian not being aware
of their intentions until they came into her
house well laden with baskets, etcetera. Soon
the tables were fairly groaning under their
weight of good things and all sat down to par-
take of the delicious repast. After dinner the
Choir sung several hymns, Bishop S. E. John-
son, made a few remarks and spoke in praise
of Sister Killian, who was completely over-
come by this unexpected demonstration. Bro-
ther Johnson presented her a beautiful card
bearing a quotation from Psalms, 27th chapter,
17th verse. "Wait on the Lord; be of good
courage, and He shall strenghen thine heart:
wait, I say, on the Lord."
	the evening passed away, each one enjoying
themselves to the utmost.
				BY ONE OF THE MEMBERS.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EDITOR:
	As it is the contributions that in part com-
prise your valuable paper, I thought I would
throw in my little mite, hoping it will be ac-
ceptable. The EXPONENT has proved a great
blessing to the ladies in this vicinity, fo[-] as
yet we are in an out-of-the-way place, and can-
not get information of what is going on except
by what we glean from reading. What a great


blessing it is to be able to read! It proves in
this, as in all other things, that God in his in-
finite goodness' has provided for his children!
When I stop to meditate on the many good
books—some of them written by inspiration—
for the benefit of the human family, I cannot
bat have a greater reverence for my Heavenly
Father for the gifts he has blessed us with.
And do we appreciate it as we should? I fear
there are a great many of us who do not!
What are we placed on this earth for? Is it
to work; toil and eke out a miserable exis-
tence? I think not, and I think that the Lord
will hold us accountable for letting our talent
lie dormant; our minds need food as well as
our bodies. I believe the Lord intends that
his children shall enjoy the blessings and gifts
that he has blessed them with. We should avail
ourselves of every opportunity that comes in our
way, to improve our minds. What class of wo-
men is there on the face of the earth that
should be more noble, great and good than
those of the Latter-day Saints—with the spirit
of their religion to help them? Then let us,
dear sisters, seek for improvement, and prove
to our Heavenly Father that we are not uncon-
scious of the many blessings He has given on
this earth for us to enjoy. And let us place
such books before our children as will instil
in their little minds principles true and exalt-
ing, that when the Lord comes to make up his
jewels, we will not be so low and ignorant that
He will pass us by.		JOSIE E. CHILDS.
	Castle Dale, Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 159


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

	WAYNESVILLE, OHIO, Feb. 19th, 1883.
Mrs. A. Agatha Pratt—

		DEAR MOTHER:
	I have been to see the floods of Cincinnati
and will give you a few items. The papers
give a pretty fair description of things as they
are in the flooded district.
	I will not attempt to tell how many houses
are under water, how many floating down the
Ohio, how many families homeless and desti-
tute, how many people thrown out of employ-
ment, nor can I tell how many deaths will oc-
cur from the effects of damp and filthy holes
that people call home. If the destruction is at
the same ratio all down the Ohio valley as at
and near Cincinnati I will simply say it will
do much towards the fulfilment of prophecy.
Elder Marks and I took train Friday, a.m. for
Cincinnati, on the only Railroad that runs into
the city, all others being stopped by water.
	We arrived in the city about noon, and put
in good time traveling the flooded districts.
The streets were full of boats of all kinds and
sizes, full of people of all kinds and colors, on,
all kinds of business, some on pleasure bent
some taking food, water and fuel to those im-
prisoned in the upper stories by the floods,
some moving goods to higher ground; some
taking the sufferers to places of safety. This
will describe life in all the flooded towns. We
took boat for the bridge between Cincinnati
and Covington, Ky. The boats that carried the
passengers to the bridge were run by the city,
fare, three cents. We were taken around
several corners pretty well up in the world, at
least we could look in at second and third
story windows. We were landed safely on the
Mammoth Suspension Bridge, high and dry
over all. It is a grand sight to see and a
master piece of art. The water was sixty-six
feet four inches above its regular level, ye
some of the steamers could go under the bridge
by lowering the upper extension of the smoke
stack. We got a splendid view from the bridge
of these large cities, Cincinnatti on the north
side of the Ohio, Covington on the south side.
This place is on high ground and but little of

[Column 2]
it was under water. Newport is on a low point
of land between Licking River and the Ohio.
We stood some time on the bridge taking a
view of the world afloat. We could see the
heights of Cincinnati and the flooded portion.
Old out-houses, dwelling houses of various
dimensions, stores, warehouses,. R. R. depots,
distilleries, coal barges, R. R. cars, engines,
steamboats, tug boats and all kinds of wrecks
seemed to mingle freely together. The only
apparent difference was, the houses, factories,
etc, seemed like a demolished fort and the
tugs and steamers seemed like the triumphant
army that defied the elements and stood guard
over the vanquished forts, riding proudly over
all, sometimes pushing coal flats defiantly
against the stream, or retiring gracefuly with
the current to their place of mooring. Piles
of lumber, frame buildings, hay stacks, boxes,
barrels, etc, were kept in constant motion
by the raging waters, while the whole scene
was dotted by boats of every kind paddling
or pushing with poles, some on the lookout for
plunder, some for fun, some trying to save,
some laden with baskets of food, etc.
Took a look around Covington, crossed to
Newport, the windows all along each side of
the streets had much the appearance of the
show window of a Photo gallery, with this
difference the pictures were all life size and in
their every day dress or undress. We walked
around the high part of the city a little, then
went back to Cincinnati via Newport Bridge.
It was a very warm day, the waters were
receding and the air seemed filled with stench
from the unhoused filth and rubbish.
	We arrived in Cincinnati about dark. The
city was in darkness, the gasworks being
under water. In walking round the city we
saw some of the houseless urchins minus coat,
shoes and hat, curled up in the recesses of the
doors and the streetsteps; that was the most
heart-rending scene of all. To see the little
fellows curled up on the cold stones to shiver
till morning, then go in search of breakfast.
	We walked the streets for one hour,
saw all kinds of people in all kinds of styles,
sharpers, drummers, news boys, boot-blacks,
business men, shop men, women and children
of every kind and color, factory girls, waiter
girls, and bad girls, Irish, Dutch and Yankee.
We took a room facing Fountain Square, went
to the opera saw Haverly's Minstrels pre-
form very good. Next morning took another
look around, boot-blacks thick as fleas, news
boys with the early morning papers yelling
out "Morning Journal, penny post, all about
the floods for one cent." All kinds of ped-
dlers vending their different wares. Went
through the markets saw meats, fishes, fruits
and vegetables of every concievable kind and
flavor. We followed the lower winding alley
as close to the water as possible; sometimes we
would see a crowd of Irish trying to keep
warm by a fire fed by the ruins of boxes and
other peices of timber raked out of the water.
We saw nearly everything afloat that would
float, pig pens, out-houses and dwelling houses,
some just coming in sight by the falling waters,
some turned cross wise, some over and some on
end. We found our way to the place where
the southern depot used to be, but is now a sea
of muddy water. The main buildings were
gone, some were in sight badly wrecked,
some places the tops of the box cars were in
sight, sometimes a road engine with the smoke
stack out of water. We visited the "Early
Breakfast" stove works. It had shut down,
but Mr. Burton showed us through his sample
room and workshop. They make nine hun-
dred and fifty stoves per week. We did not
visit any other factories as they were all
stopped. Many houses are falling down as the
water leaves.
						M. W. PRATT.


THE CROWN JEWELS OF AUSTRIA.

					VIENNA, Oct. 3rd, 1882.
	No one leaves Vienna without a visit to the
treasury, which is full of rich and remarkable
curiosities. On the long walls of the entrance
room hangs many a page of Austrian history.
The standard of the nation catches your eye
as you enter the hall. Just beyond this comes
a delightful assortment of herald's robes—robes
embroidered by fingers which forgot their cun-
ning in the centuries that drifted into the
great past long before the more modern heroes
were born. The shield of the Grand Marshal
calls up a thought of gorgeous pageants and
imperial shows. The ebony casket containing
the keys of the coffins of the ancestors of the
imperial family is equally suggestive. A large
crystal goblet set with rich jewels takes us
back to the times of Charles the Bold. We
sit beside him at some grand feast, watching
the old courtiers as they pledge themselves
and their arms to the fair ladies whose knights
they bound themselves to be. The bright eyes
and rosy lips that graced the court of the
brave old monarch lives only in song and
story, but the old goblet flashes back the light
of the present century as clearly as though
just fresh from the lapidary. The appoint-
ments for the tables of royalty were neither
simple nor inexpensive in the times before
our own. Francis I., of France, counted
among his valued articles a salt-cellar, the de-
sign wrought from the fertile brain of Ben-
venuto Cellini.
	We go on through these wonderful rooms
till we come to the jewels of the imperial
family. We find that our republican educa-
tion is no bar to our enjoyment of crown
jewels. We confess to a positive satisfaction
in the contemplation of all these regal appoint-
ments. This Austrian regalia dates back to
the time of Rudolph II, and includes the
crown sceptre and imperial globe. They tell
their own story of individual power and force, 
differing widely from any our own continent
has ever known. The crown of the Empress
looks fresh and modern, having been re-set
within a few years. Diamonds of fabulous
value flash out their glittering rays as we go
on from case to case of these rich jewels. A
beautiful hat-clasp contains the wonderful
Florentine diamond, valued at about three
hundred thousand dollars. This belonged to
Charles the Bold, of Burgundy; it was found
by a peasant after the battle of Granson and
sold by him for less than a dollar. It is
probably that the merchant of Berne who
bought this royal gem was as well satisfied
with his share of the spoil as any of the actors
in the famous battle. A scarf contains the
grand cross of the Maria Theresa order, com-
posed of hundreds of diamonds clustering
around a large pink one. Rubies and eme-
ralds of the choicest kind are used in all sorts
of devices in these magnificent ornaments be-
longing to the imperial families. Many articles
are the decorations of different orders. One of
the Golden Fleece is made up with at least a
hundred and fifty brillians, the Frankfort dia-
mond with coronation robes which have playes
a grand part in the historical days of the past.
	The little silver cradle of the King of Rome.
still bright with its golden coating, is the most
pathetic thing we find in all this grand dis-
play. It stands empty and neglected in the
same oom where we saw the insignia of Napo-
leaon as King of Italy.
	Historical curiosities greet us at each step.
We sigh for longer days and fewer limitations
to our time. As we come upon the old horo-
scope of Wallenstein, we wonder if the talis-
man may not be able yet to work its spell. If
we could lay hold of one of those astrologers of


old, how persistently we would besiege him
till he should give us length of days and the
ability to comprehend the things about us.
	The storehouses of our memory are all in-
adequate to hold the wares offered by these
old empires for our consideration. The sabre
of Haroun al Raschid savors of romance and
daring deeds. In another small room, without
even a guard to keep watch over its treasures,
we find another case of relics that might well
make us stop and look down the ages. Charle-
magne rises out of the events of the past
which come crowding down upon our bewilder-
ed senses- This great, ambitious king strides
grandly before us. Here is his crown—iron-
faced and firm as when it rested upon his im-
perial brow after the siege at Pavia in 773.
Here is his stole, his girdle, his sword. Here
are his coronation robes and his sceptre; the
imperial globe which was never held by a
firmer grasp than when the mighty king put
his strong hand upon it. The present century
seems the one that is dim and far away as we
stand in a dazed condition. These famous
relics of the "Emperor of the West" were
found in his tomb at Aix La Chapelle. When
the vault was opened he was found sitting in
most regal state on a throne. A mightier des-
pot sat side by side with the imperial body.
Death alone had curbed the spirit of this
mighty warrior king. France had cause to
take great pride in this wonderful sovereign,
Lombardy to hate him, Italy, Spain, Germany
to fear him. Learning, art and science owe
much to his patronage. He was as extra-
ordinary as despotic. We seem to come almost
into his visible presence as we stand gazing at
the old crown.
	We are quite content, however, with our
own day as we shake off the illusions which
gather around us. There is another great
country beyond the sea where trade and
industry find a home, where art and science
are encouraged, where there is free thought
and free speech, liberty of conscience and room
for all who crave it. There are no old coro-
nation robes hanging on the walls of its
treasury; no crowns whose wearers have put
their iron heels on the hearts of its children.
Charlemagne's hour is over. A grander na-
tion has risen—a West which he never
dreamed of.
	The Prater is the grand park of the city,
where all visitors delight to drive. Grand
carriages of the nobility are daily the admira-
tion of the walking public. We hunt up the
old buildings frescoed on the outside, admire
the fountains and statues, roam through the
quaint sections of the place, and wish we had
weeks to spend within its walls. We could be
busy all the time; hunting up new sights and
old curiosities. When we turn from here it
will be with regret; but everywhere we leave
much unseen which we shall hunger and thirst
for in the days to come. We generally coax
ourselves off with the promise that "next time"
we shall do all these wonderful things which
we leave undone now. If the promise is never
to be quite fulfilled, we go away rather more
cheerful for our little delusion. If we had all
our lives to live over, we half suspect we might
after all leave out some things we would be
loth to do without. In the morning Vienna
will be a long way behind us. We have had
a royal feast within her gates. The banquet
has been both rich and rare. We are more
fortunate than the Romans of old; we turn
away before our appetite is wholly appeased.
	Ex.						RUTH RANDOM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HAVE you ever thought of it? The memory
of an eye is the most deathless of memories,
because there, if anywhere, you catch a 
glimpse of the visible soul as it sits by the
window.—D. G. Mitchell.


SECRET prayer must be the root for nourish-
ing all public prayer and service. "Apostasy
begins at the closet door," says Philip Henry.

	A conscience so lazy as to be prone to fears
of extra duty is certainly in itself very differ-
ent from the real, old, saintly kind which used
to be always inclined to overburden its owner
with duties.

	THERE is no danger that man will not ulti-
mately do man's work and woman woman's
work. But it will yet take the experience of many
emancipated generations to determine the
maximum limits of both; and after all, the
best part of all the work will be that which
both sexes do in common.—T. W. Higginson.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
                     ________
                     Z. C. M. I. 
        SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
  HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
      GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
                       	MENTS,
         CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
   PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL TAPERS, ALL 
  GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
     We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
            WW. JENNINGS, Supt. 

      HENRY DINWOODEY.
           FURNITURE,
          WALL PAPER,
            CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LlNOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUNS
      AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
     SALT LAKE CITY.
         DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
     Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
     Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

       MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D. 
PHYSICIAN   and  SURGEON 
   Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of thd Deseret National Bank, and half a
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHIDREN
		KNITTING FACTORY,
Ca 1st W. St., Eet. 21 and 3d W. Next Door South of W.H. Hooper's.
Men’s Socks, Ladies’ and Childrens’ Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies and Childrens Hoods,
ete. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CARLINE C. RALEIIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
________________________________________
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IS GODBE, PITTS & COS BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Resident
_____________________________________________
                    Special to the Ladies.
                            __________
                        AT TEASDEL’S
Will he found the latest styles and productions
                                   in
       LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODER1ES, 
            FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
            RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
            And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
      PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
                 and 4th East Streets.
                           _______
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
            OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
                NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
    Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.
_______________________________________
                      A LARGE STOCK 
     Of Home Made Trunks for Bale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent tor the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yams,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,	Cassimers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc, Etc.

CLASSES in MIDWIFERY
               DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT
     COMMENCES ANOTHER CLASS IN MID-
WIFERY, April 9th, in Office over Godbe,
Pitts & Co’s Drug Store, at 1 p.m. Lectures
three per week, for five months. Practial in-
struction and examinations by Drs. Anderson
and Benedict. Introductory lectures on general
anatomy and physiology of the whole system.
Manikin, plates and Instruments for Instruction.
		TUITION  $30.
            BOOKS  3       12. 
N.B.—Those desiring to join the class will
please send names in early, that books may be
ordered in time.
         For further particulars please write.
___________________________________
          F. AUERBACH & BRO.
                       --HAVE--
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos.124 & 126
            CALL AND EXAMINE
         Spring and Summer Goods.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 11.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1883.
No. 21.


﻿A LOVING TRIBUTE.
[Suggested by those kind Sisters who gave me a "Sur-
prise" party on my birthday, March 16th, 1883.]

Of friends!—What know I not of friends?
The blessed boon that Heaven sends!
How dear to me they've ever been
Throughout my life's meandering scene!
How dear to me have been their faces—
Their presence charmed, and hallowed places;
Like ancients in the olden time,
In every place I had a shrine!
An altar, where I often paid
Devotion at the shrine I made!

Of friends!—What know I not of friends?
Through them, a Heaven on me descends!
How rich they've made me all my life—
They've banished care—thay've banished strife,
They've made me feel each sorrow lighter,
Yes! made the sun himself look brighter!
No place to me was desert ground
If they were hovering around;
And when I heard the well known voice
It made my thrilling sould rejoice; 
And when I met the loving eye
All sorrow I could then defy!
And when I grasp'd the faithful hand
The living touch I could command,
Wherever they might chance to be
The gate of Heaven was to me!

What know I not of friendship's care,
When sickness I'd to take a share?
And e'en when death appeared to claim
The life I struggled to retain!
Though sad bereavement steeped my soul
In all its bitterest control!
But friendship's hand in PRIESTLY power,
Dispelled the darkness of that hour,
And I was healed, and I was blest,
And all my woes and wants redressed;
And garnered in my heart's recess
These names remain to cheer and bless.

And e'en to-day, my grateful eyes
Run over with a sweet "surprise!"
A host of friends have met to bless
Their Sister with a fond caress;
I see around a loving tribe,
And each with honey from their hive!
And viands sweet and rich—in fine
For epicures to sit and dine;
A "feast of reason, flow of soul,"
Shed o'er the scene a sweet control;
And every heart was full of love,
And every lip this truth did prove;
And each one rose, and every heart
Its prayers and wishes did impart;
And called for blessings on the head
Of her they had so richly fed.

But O! the dress! Ah! yes, the dress!
A fabric rich they brought to bless,
Presenting it with words of cheer,
Sweet words I know, but did not hear.
Surprise had stunned my listening ear!
Of friends!—What know I not of friends?
That blessed boon that Heaven sends,
And all these tributes they did bring
To shew their love for H. T. King.
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, March 16th, 1883.


﻿ONE WHO KNOWS.
   “The very nature of every virtuous  woman
revolts against polygamy and all its influ-
ences.” Senator Edmunds.
   I would like to ask the wise statesman, the
Hon. Mr. Edmunds, if he ever knew a black-
smith to regulate a watch just by seeing a
man look at it and put it in his pocket. That
would be just as consistent as this remark.
The ladies of Utah are free to judge, think,
choose and act, and would to God that every
woman understood the meaning of the word
virtue and was protected, as we are!  We
have perfect confidence in our husbands, and
they in us. If every senator and representa-
tive man in Washington, that had not kept
his marriage vows, were turned into statuary,
as Lot’s wife was into a pillar of salt,
for disobedience, would the halls of Con-
gress lack decoration? Gentlemen, if purity
of motives and deeds worthy the approbation of
the Gods is revolting, then are we to be judged
thus? If true and faithful, loving our sisters
as ourselves, and having untainted blood in
our veins for our children, knowing we are to
inherit the society of our husbands through
all eternity, if we are true women, and not
without, and vice versa, with our companions,
is this immoral? to hold sacred our mar-
riage relations, through slander, misrepre-
sented at home and abroad, but not forsaken
by God, or our husbands, remain faithful and
true; yes, true, happy, confiding wives. And
right here I entreat congressmen, all men and
women on earth to be virtuous, true to them-
selves, not double dealers, true to the laws of
good order and the Constitution, which all
Mormon men and women consider inspired of
God to protect, not hung on a swivel to face
policy and money at the sacrifice of justice.
Gentlemen and ladies, we ask no mercy, but
give us justice.
   The Jews said, we will not, and so say this
nation; as Mr. Edmunds was once told, he was
not fighting a little handful of people in the
mountains, but measuring arms with the
Almighty; perhaps he wishes the honor of a
Pharaoh, we are content to abide our time, for
all must receive the reward from whom they
serve.
   In referring to the very nature of woman
revolting against polygamy and its influence,
we would inquire, what does Mr. Edmunds
know of its influence, where it is understood
and practiced in the fear of God? Was not
David a man after God’s own  heart, and in
nothing did he displease the Lord except in
taking away the wife of Uriah.
   Gentlemen, learn what true happiness is by
honoring the laws of nature, and be honored
through all eternity because of obedience to
the celestial law of marriage. Act upon prin-
ciple, and make  duty a pleasure, and gather
around you a family of thirty or forty like a
patriarch, that your life may not be spent in
vain.
   I have heard more contention and quarrel-
ing in a family consisting of husband, wife
and two children, than I ever heard in the
family of Brigham Young in thirty years,
with fourteen wives and forty children.
   If purity, fidelity, honesty and integrity,
with hard labor and a clear conscience, is not
valuable, then tell me what is? This govern-
ment has listened to and acted from hearsay
and falsehood. Look at our Tabernacles, our
Temples and our homes, listen to our devo-
tions, search where you will for a “poor
house,” not one will you find; there are still
many counties in the Territory of Utah with
not a dramshop or a brothel; is this a disgrace
to a nation?
   We have been accused of not being a law-
abiding people; we will compare notes at any
time with our grand government.
   Mr. Black knows what is white and so do
we; God bless men that have stamina and ster-
ling integrity to open their eyes to the sun-
shine of truth, and all women who dare to be
truly virtuous, and heaven’s best blessing is a
true husband and good children; this is the in-
fluence of polygamy and what the God of
heaven has provided to protect virtue, ennoble
women, to elevate mankind. This is our
standard, Justice to all. Though Mr. Ed-
munds holds up his hands in holy horror at
the very thought of this condition of things,
we are sorry for him,— but we leave him and
all those who seek to oppress us, in the hands
of that God whose laws we have enlisted to
obey. 			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
		AND PATRIARCH.
			_______
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
			_______
	I here produce a copy of the letter received
by President Brigham Young from Governor
Ford - dated April 8th, 1845, containing a
proof, indisputable, that the Prophet Joseph
Smith was the first to propose moving to this
western country, instead of Brigham Young,
as has been stated by Joseph Smith, Editor of
the Lamoni Herald and reputed by others, who
are equally in the dark in this, as well as in all
other matters pertaining to this Latter-day
work.
	“If you can get off by yourselves you may
enjoy peace, but surrounded by such neighbors,
I confess that I do not see the time when you
will be permitted to enjoy quiet. I was in-
formed by General Joseph Smith, last summer,
that he contemplated a removal west; and from
what I learned from him and others at that
time, I think if he had lived, he would have be-
gan to move in the matter before this time. I
would be willing to exert all my feeble abilities
and influence to further your views in this re-
spect if it was the wish of your people. I
would suggest a matter in confidence. Califor-
nia now offers a field for the prettiest enter-
prise that has been undertaken in modern
times. It is but sparsely inhabited, and by
none but the Indians, or imbecile Mexican
Spaniards. I have not inquired enough to
know how strong it is in men and means. But
this we know, that if conquered from Mexico,
that country is so physically weak and morally
distracted that she could never send a force
there to reconquer it. Why should it not be a
pretty operation for your people to go out there,
take possession of and conquer a portion of the
vacant country and establish an independent
government of your own, subject only to the
laws of nations?
	“You would remain there a long time before
you would be disturbed by the proximity of
other settlements.
	“If you conclude to do this, your design ought
not to be known, or  otherwise it would
become the duty of the United States to pre-
vent your emigration. If once you cross the
line of the United States territory, you
would be in no danger of being interfered
with.”
	The Twelve Apostles had then nearly ma-
tured their plans for the move (not only of the


Saints in North America but also those in
Great Britain) to these Rocky Mountains, and
the Governor's advice was therefore quite un-
necessary. They had received similar advice
from Senator Douglas, James Arlington Ben-
nett and others. About this time they ad-
dressed a petition to President James K. Polk,
laying before him the true condition of a poor
oppressed and long suffering people. But his
heart was as an adamant--he did not deign an
answer.
	I find many things mentioned in my father’s
journal which I remember as I read them, and
they bring to my mind other incidents which
had it not been for his record, would probably
have been buried in oblivion. I will copy a
few as they were written by his own hand in
1845. He says, "On the morning of the 18th
of June, I went to John Taylor's to read his-
tory. President Brigham Young, George A.
Smith, John Taylor and myself—Brother Ezra
Benson read for us. The same morning Phineas
Young and Charles Shumway returned home
from their Western mission. At four o'clock
they came in where the brethren were reading,
and we stopped to listen to a letter from
Brother Dunham, and they gave to us a his-
tory of their travels." "They have had some
difficulties, but all will work right in the end."
Next day he writes, "I and others of the Twelve
were sent for by Sister Jennetta Richards,
(Brother Willard's wife,) to meet there and
pray for her, as she felt that she could not live
long. We also prayed for my wife, who is
very sick--and offered up prayer for Bishop
Whitney, who has gone to St. Louis--that he
may be prospered. "The same day he writes,
"Brigham Young, George A. Smith and myself
went to the Temple to see how things were pro-
gressing." "The rafters were mostly on, all
things going well." "Returned home and
found Sister Whitney. She anointed my wife
and sang in tongues; I also sang and the Lord
blessed us.” “June the 20th, I again met with
my brethren to read history--were in that part
which describes the persecutions ﻿in Jackson Co.
Missouri." "We stopped reading at two o'clock
in the afternoon. I found my wife worse--sent
for Sister Whitney. We clothed ourselves ac-
cording to the order of the holy priesthood and
anointed and prayed for her. The Lord heard
us, for she was better and had a good night’s
rest. The Lord shall have the glory." "All is
quiet in our city."
	He speaks of feelings having arisen from
what William Smith had said on the stand the
previous Sabbath, that he and his connections
had been neglected, etc., which was false, and
he says, "This gives me sorrow, but the Lord
will cause all things to go right."
	"June 22nd, Bishop Whitney got home from
St. Louis." At four o'clock the same day,
William Smith was married by Brigham
Young.” “On the 25th, met with the police,
the Bishops and many others at the Masonic
Hall. William Smith was present and said he
was afraid of his life. He received a rebuke
from Brigham." We read that, "the wicked
flee when no man puruueth," which words ap-
plied to William Smith, and he justly deserved
that rebuke. In Joseph's life he was quarrel-
some and frequently had to be dealt with before
his brethren for unchristian-like conduct. He
became very wicked and unprincipled, and his
conduct towards Joseph was at times unbear-
able, but he exercised towards him all the
kindness and forbearance that was possible.
He was very deceitful and tried by his allure-
ments to lead away some of Joseph's young
wives by picturing to them the grand sights
to be seen, and the more pleasant and agreable
life that they could lead if they would accom-
pnay him to the Eastern cities. He had a
plurality of wives, but his first wife was an in-
valid and was then living in Philadelphia with
her little children. Bishop Whitney was in-
formed of his wicked course taken against
Joseph, but his counsel was to keep it from him,
as he had trouble enough already upon his
shoulders. He(William) was certainly an odd
one in that family--was very genteel, good
looking and capable of appearing in the most
refined modern society, like some others of the
kid-gloved gentility of these days, but if all
of his conduct had been exposed to Joseph, the
consequences might have been more serious.
He came from the East when hearing of his
brother's martyrdom, and the next day after
his arrival at Nauvoo, instead of coming to the
meeting, which was held by the road-side east
of the Temple, he rode flauntingly by in a fine
carriage dressed in deep mourning with none
but himself and driver. He could have taken
any other road as well, but it looked as though
he did it just for the purpose of creating a
sensation. He aspired to stand as the leader
and fully expected to take some of his brother’s
wives if not all. He afterward professed or
feigned repentance and humility before the
Twelve Apostles and the people. I had the
honor of the perusal of a long and eloquently
worded epistle written by him to one of Joseph’s
oung wives, telling not only his devotion to
her, but of a wonderful vision, or revelation
that he had received, concerning her and him-
self, picturing out her future state in glorious
colors. But I suppose her mind had not suffi-
ciently expanded or else she possessed too little
of the spiritual to appreciate such visions, es-
pecially from that quarter, even to deign a
reply, but cast his letter to the flames. His
poor suffering wife had passed away previous
to this and he thought it a flattering induce-
ment to offer a young lady the privilege of
standing first. But she knew his former his-
tory, being one of the number that he tried to
fascinate and lead away from his brother, the
Prophet, while he was  living. After al-
lowing her sufficient time to answer his epistle,
he called one morning, and I happened to be
present and heard him ask her for "that letter,"
when she coolly informed him that it had been
destroyed. His countenance, which had al-
ready become a shade or two darker with the
pent up wrath, (which he did not try to con-
ceal) grew darker still and the look he gave
her as he turned to leave resembled anything
but that of a Saint. What made his sins still
greater was that he tried to hide them under the
cloak- of religion, and in such there is no such
thing as repentance or remission of sins. He
soon after married a very pretty young girl,
and though the character she bore was not of
the best, she was good enough for him. I met
them both at a dinner given on the 6th of the
following August, at Brother John Benbow's,
who owned a large farm on the prairie. My
parents, with about fifty persons, were present.
William Smith's countenance that day plainly
bespoke the bitterness that was raging within.
It was said that he only married the girl for
spite, at all events they were not happy, and it
was only a short time before they separated.
His brethren labored with him and tried to do
him all the good they could, and my father
spoke truly, for William Smith was always
dissatisfied, otherwise the Twelve were one.
	June 27th, being one year from the day that
Joseph and Hyrum were killed in Carthage
jail, was set apart for fasting and prayer.
Father writes in his journal. "O Lord, I thank
Thy holy name, that Thou dost hear thy ser-
vants and have brought trouble upon those who
have spilt the blood of thy servants and per-
secuted thy Saints. Even now they are
dumb--that they can not do business, and are
thrown into confusion in answer to prayer, as
we have felt to plead with Thee, with uplifted
hands in token of our regard to Thee. I thank
Thee, O our Father, for Thou dost hear us in
all things when we are agreed, and this Thou
hast granted to Thy servants this day, and I
pray that Thy blessing and peace and prosper-
ity my rest upon all Thy Saints; even so
amen."
	Saturday June 28th, father wrote, “The old
stand in the grove west of the Temple was pre-
pared for holding meetings. The Twelve were
present. We spent most of the day at the
Temple.
“Sunday, 29th, meeting was held at the old
stand. The congregation was very large. It
seemed like old times when we used to hear
from Joseph and Hyrum. * * The day
passed off well and heaven's blessings were
with us. In the evening went and baptized
fifty-one persons.” He mentions the fourth of
July, and says, "Many of the Saints spent the
day riding and had bands of music, and amused
themselves in different ways. The steamer Di
Vernnon came up from St. Louis, some from
Quincy and other places for pleasure. There
were near one hundred and fifty who stopped
in our city and went all over it—were very
civil. All things passed off well. General
Demming and Sheriff Backenstos came to my
house and spent the evening."
			To be Continued.


W O M A N ’ S  E X P O N E N T .


WOMEN IN JOURNALISM.—The first daily
newspaper printed in the world was estab-
lished and edited by a woman—Elizabeth
Mallet, in London, 1702,-almost 200 years
ago. In her salutatory, she said she had
established a newspaper to "spare the public
half the impertinences which the ordinary
newspapers contain." Woman like, her paper
was reformatory.
   The first newspaper published in America,
of which we have any record, was in Massa-
chusetts. It was called the Massachusetts
Gazette and News-Letter. After the death of
the editor, the widow edited it in the most
spirited manner for two or three years. It
was the only paper that did not suspend
publication when Boston was besieged by the
British. The widow's name was Margaret
Craper.
   In 1772 Rhode Island issued its first news-
paper. It was owned and edited by Anna
Franklin. She and her two daughters did
the printing, and their servants worked the
printing press. History tells us that for her
quickness and correctness she was appointed
printer to the colony, supplying pamphlets,
etc., to the colonial officers. She also printed
an edition of the colonial laws of 340 pages.
   In 1776 Sarah Goddard printed a paper in
Newport, R. I., ably conducting it, afterward
associating with her John Carter. The firm was
announced Sarah Goddard & Co., taking the
partnership precedence, as was proper and
right.
   In 1772 Clementine Reid published a paper
in Virginia, favoring the colonial cause and
greatly offending the royalists; and two years
after another paper was started in the in-
terest of the crown, by Mrs. H. Boyle, borrow-
ing the name of Mrs. Reid's paper, which
was the Virginia Gazette, but which was
short lived. Both of the papers were pub-
lished in the town of Williamsburg. The
colonial paper was the first newspaper in
which the Declaration of Independence was
printed.
   In 1773 Elizabeth Timothy published and
edited a paper in Charleston, S. C. After the
revolution Annie Timothy became its editor,
and was appointed State printer, which posi-
tion she held for seventeen years. Mary
Crouch published a paper in Charleston about
the same time, in special opposition to the
stamp act. She afterward removed her paper
to Salem, Mass., and continued its publication
there for years after.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿DEDICATED TO SISTER ALDER

ON THE DEATH OF HER BELOVED DAUGHTER
				HELEN.

Yes!
In gazing on that form of wondrous charms
As in the casket it so peaceful lay,
So calm and chaste in the embrace of death,
Words most expressive leapt from out my lips
As though a voice within my heart endorsed
The beauty that lay passive there.—Beauty
In its highest, holiest, most unearthly sense,
In silent eloquence, was stamped thereon!
That girl so young, in unassuming youth,
Became at once transfigured as it were,
And all approached as with a silent awe!
How eloquent that silent, beauteous form
Spoke to each awe-struck gazer as they passed,
Telling the brevity of earthly life!
How frail the aspirations all are wont to feel!
Beauty was there that death alone can give;
It clothed with sanctity the sleeping form,
And all approached as they would bend before
A royal presence, in its robes of state!

Oh! mourning mother! stay thy falling tears!
Oh! sorrowing father, hush thy choking sobs!
Would’st thou recall her from the realms of bliss?
Would’st thou strip off the robe of Heaven?
Or tear the starry chaplet from her brow? 
And once more clothe her in habiliments of earth?
No, No! I hear you say, No, no, we would not.
Then, dear friends, stem now the tide of grief,
Oh! mourn no more for her who wears the robe,
The immaculate robe of the redeemed—
The starry crown of an immortal soul!
Think of her dwelling in eternal light,
Within the ineffable presence of her God,
And the divine association of her Savior’s love!
Of beings great and noble while on earth,
Who having nobly filled the mission given
Are now beatified within the smile of God!
Imagination fails to paint the scene,
But He, who viewed the ransomed throng,
And saw the glory of the Firstborn’s Church,
Has left by his inspired pen a vision
Michael Angelo would have loved to paint!
On meditations, such as these, let us dilate
Till we become with all their glory rife.
Feeling our spirit chastened and subdued,
And bending low respire, “Thy will be done.”
						Hannah T. King.
Salt Lake City, March 15th, 1883.


A VENERABLE WOMAN.
		PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
				[Continued.]
	In the fall of 1840, Mrs. Buell moved from
her home in Missouri to Illinois and settled be-
tween Quincy and Nauvoo. During the time
she lived there, a period of between five and
six years, she made frequent journeys to
Nauvoo and visited among the Saints, being
particularly aquainted with Joseph and Hyrum,
with Mother Smith and family. Sister Pres-
endia, as we shall hereafter call her, became
more familiarly associated with the Prophet
and his teachings, which were attracting much
attention among the Saints and all sorts of
slanders imaginable were being circulated.
Truth is always counterfeited and every true
principle of science or religion introduced into
the world has been met by strong opposition
from the masses, generally the ignorant and
bigoted. In Nauvoo the teaching of the prin-
ciple of celestial marriage by Joseph spread
like wildfire, and all sorts of improbable and
impossible misrepresentations were noised
abroad. It is so strange that the Gospel having
been restored to the earth and the holy Priest-
hood bestowed upon the servants of God ac-
cording to the prophecies of Scripture, for in-
stance, Isaiah, Jeremiah and Malachi, that
the Lord should command his servants to fol-
low in the footsteps of Abraham, the father of
the faithful, and other ancient worthies with
whom He condescended to hold converse? To
me it seems only consistent with the dealings
of the Lord with his people from the com-
mencement of the world. The Lord's ways
are not as our ways, and man cannot judge the
Almighty.
	Joseph himself taught the principle of plural
marriage to Sister Presendia, and her heart was
humble, and her mind open to receive the
revelations of heaven. She knew Joseph to be
a man of God, and she had received many
manifestations in proof of this, and consequent-
ly when he explained to her clearly the knowl-
edge which he had obtained from the Lord,
she accepted the sealing ordinance with Joseph
as a sacred and holy confirmation. The trou-
bles and difficulties that arose afterwards, that
eventually resulted in the death of Joseph and
Hyrum, kept the Saints in a constant state of
anxiety. The sisters who had entered into
these covenants were in one sense separate and
apart from all others. Their minds were more
expanded, new light had burst in upon them,
and they were buoyed up by a spirit which
they scarcely understood, otherwise they could
never have borne the calumny and reproach
cast upon them, because of their having taken
upon themselves these solemn vows. No
tongue can describe, or pen portray the pecu-
liar situation that environed about these noble
self-sacrificing women, who through the provi-
dence of God helped to establish the principle
of plural celestial marriage. Those who speak
of the principle of a plurality of wives as de-
basing, or degrading, know nothing whatever
of the practice of it as it exists among the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and those who condemn these
sainted women who have taken upon them-
selves this cross, in all purity of heart and
motive of purpose, are as ignorant of their
lives and the reverence in which they hold
these sacred relations, as they are of what ex-
ists upon another planet, or they would never
dare upbraid and sneer as they do at those
whom God has called to take such an impor-
tant part in his great Latter-day work.
	The crisis came, when the Prophet and Pa-
triarch were foully murdered. How did if af-
fect the people, the Saints? They were plunged
into the depths of grief for the man of God they
had so loved, and the wives and the children of
these noble men, were sorrow stricken beyond
measure. Sister Presendia heard the dreadful
tidings and could not believe it true, but when
it was confirmed and she comprehended the
situation, she called upon the Lord in her
loneliness, and asked that the Holy Spirit
might comfort her in her extreme need. To
attempt the recital of the suffering and an-
guish of those who mourned for the Propht
and Patriarch, is impossible.
	The time came for the performance of
ceremonies and ordinances in the Nauvoo
Temple. Sister Presendia was some distance
away, but she was notified by her friends that
it would be her privilege to go into the Temple,
and in the language of Scripture straightway
she came, and availed herself of the opportuni-
ty.
	Hereafter we recognize her as the wife of the
renowned Apostle Heber C. Kimball. The
next great event in the history of this people
was the exodus from Nauvoo; and with this we
take up the thread of the narrative of this
distinguished woman, of whose life we are only
giving a brief sketch.
			To be Continued.


[Column 1]
	﻿THE CHARACTER OF LADY
			MACBETH.
			     _____
	In the character of Lady Macbeth, we find
the commingling of two sets of elements; one

[Column 2]
the combination of superior intellect, refine-
ment, high courage, womanly love and affec-
tion, indomitable will, power, and fidelity-
Contrasted with, antagonized, and finally over-
powered, by a baser set; foremost among
which, and predominating over all the others,
is mad ambition, in fact, the others are but
outgrowths of this one ruling power. Let us
examine this passion, and see under what
peculiar guise it is presented in the character
before us. The word ambition we generally
associate with an innate desire on the part of
its possessor to accomplish its own aggrandize-
ment, self, being the great central motive
power, or pivot, around which all other issues
revolve, and to which they are subservient.
But in Lady Macbeth we find that self is not
the basis or foundation of that vaulting ambi-
tion which transformed her into a thing of
evil, and caused her to violate not only the
most sacred claims of kindred and hospitality,
but also to lead Macbeth on to his destruction,
the one being on earth whom she had sought
to exalt. It was for him and not herself that
caused her to steep her heart in guilt, and
bathe her hand in blood, that little hand, that
"all the perfumes of Arabia could not after-
wards sweeten." It was for him that she be-
came the impersonation of evil passion; to
place within his hand the sceptre, and upon
his brow the imperial crown, she had sold her-
self to hell. Among the nobler qualities of
her mind and heart, we find high courage,
womanly love and sympathy, filial and paren-
tal affection; the two latter traits strikingly
exhibited where she says: "I have given suck
and know how tender it is to love the babe
that milks me," and the sentence, "Had he not
resembled my father as he slept," etc., occur-
ring as it does in the midst of a tumultuous
throng of evils, has been likened to the unex-
pected tender minor chord occurring in one of
Weber's or Beethoven's symphonies, and steal-
ing over the ear is heard amid the magnificent
crash of harmony, making the blood pause,
and filling the eyes with unbidden tears.
	We cannot look upon Lady Macbeth as a
monster of depravity, or a "masculine virago,"
but as a proud, noble, brilliant, intellectual
woman, who fell from her high pinnacle of
virtue through mistaken love, and the lack of
Christian influences. Had the circumstances
of her life been other than they were, she pos-
sessed elements of mind and heart which, pro-
perly directed, would have made her stand out
prominently among the noblest of woman-
kind.
	Black as is the crime which she ushers on
to a successful issue, we find by way of pal-
liation that she is not the sole originator of the
dreadful conception, for it springs within Mac-
beth's mind, before his lady is introduced; 'tis
true she takes a more active part in the crime
afterwards, but commentators on the play say
that it is due to her superiority of intellect,
rather than her love of blood, and her more
thorough executive ability, as compared with
that of her more timid husband, and had it
not been for her self-possession and courage,
they would have been discovered at the mur-
der of Duncan, and identified with it. It was
not altogether the pangs of conscience that
made Macbeth oblivious to the danger of his
situation, and the necessity of concealment, as
he stood with the bloody hands and dripping dag-
ger, in the open court, but a lack of that self
poise and dauntlessness that marked the supe-
rior mind of Lady Macbeth.
	After the commission of her first great
crime, we find her not a willing agent in other
deeds of blood, but devotedly engaged in sup-
porting the nervous weakness of her husband,
until that greatest of all  wrecks, aberration
of the mind, made her oblivious to all earthly
woes. In her sad life we read the story of "a
proud heart broken."			ZOE.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -		Editor.
Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SAIT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1883.


ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

TO THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE
	CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER
	DAY SAINTS:
	Meetings will be held in the Large Tabernacle
in this city, on Thursday, April 5th, 1883, at 10
o'clock in the morning and 2 o'clock in the after-
noon, preparatory to the Annual Conference,
which will conmence on Friday, April 6th, at
10 o'clock in the morning, as per previous ad-
journment.
					JOHN TAYLOR,
					GEORGE Q. CANNON,
					JOSEPH F. SMITH,
	First Presidence of the Church of Jesus
		Crist of Latter-Day Saints.
	Salt Lake City,
			March 20th, 1883.


HOW LITTLE IS KNOW OF 
"MORMONS"

	It is truly surprising, when we consider the
boasted intelligence of the nineteenth century,
to find how little is really know of the "Mor-
mons."  People actually engage in what they
term studying the Mormon question, and solv-
ing the Mormon problem, without becoming
acquainted with it, except through hearsay.  In
conversing with strangers who pass through the
city, and spend a few hours, or perhaps a day at
most, one can readily comprehend the fact,
that, as far as the people, the institutions, and
the condition of the Territory is concerned, they
are as ignorant as of a foreign country and its
interests.
	The circumstances under which the "Mor-
mons" came into the Wilderness are misrepre-
sented, the desolate state in which the pioneers
found this valley, and the government they
sought to establish here, all these things, and
others of a similar nature, are told in various
ways, and elaborately colored.
	Considering this people belong to the civil-
ized races, and have been educated in the same
habits and customs, as well as schools, of those
who live on the other side the Rocky Moun-
tains, one cannot help wondering at these ab-
surdities.  The only thing that these anti-Mor-
mons are quite sure they do know, is that Mor-
mons have more than one wife, and consequent-
ly they are to them a race of men and women,
separate and apart from the rest of the world of
mankind.  It seems to be a settled fact with
them too, that the women cannot possibly have
minds of their own, or free agency, or they
would never submit to the social domestic rela-
tion signified by the unmeritorious term "poly-
gamy."
	This is all because they do not know, and will
not, or do not care to investigate.  There are no
women who have physically, mentally, morally,
and spiritually greater freedom to develop, than
the "Mormon" women.  The very genius of
"Mormonism" itself, gives women privileges
not acknowledged, and not yet granted in the
outside world.  It gives to every woman the op-
portunity of marriage;  does any other Church
in Christendom do this?  As a natural conse-
quence, no!  Women are in the majority in all
the Churches according to the statistics; then if
they marry, they must of necessity, a large
number of them at all events, marry out of
the Church, and that is undesirable for many
reasons; there cannot be perfect harmony, it
could not be a complete union, or blending to-
gether of heart and soul, which is the true
meaning of marriage.  In this respect then
Mormonism is far in advance.  Woman, too,
may have a choice, she is not obliged to accept
the first offer of marriage, lest there should
never be another opportunity, as thousands of
women do in the world, where according to
some of those self styled protectors of the
weaker sex, women have so much freedom and
attention. To enumerate all the superior advan-
tages given to women here, would take too
much time; but one thing we may say with all
propriety, and that is, that in the matter of pro-
gress, women have greater liberty, because they
are not, and need not be, tied down or restricted
to any of those strait-laces, iron bedstead rules,
that environ about on every hand the women of
the world. To be sure the suffragists have
opened the way considerably and made this
matter much easier for women than before, but
they have not yet attained, in the Church or in
the State, to the liberty enjoyed by these "Mor-
mon" wives and daughters for whom the out-
side world entertain such an abhorrence.
	Many of the chains worn by women are of
gold, to be sure, linked with jewels, and the bri-
dles with which they are so securely fastened
are of fine spun silk, yet they are oft times
galling in the extreme, yet these self-same
ladies scorn the women whose strength of char-
acter has helped them to rise superior to the
environments the world has for centuries past
held necessary for women, and declare them-
sleves free to think, to act, and to advance in
the scale of being, fearless of the ridicule and
opprobrium of fashion worshippers.
	There is no other Church that has such a per-
fect organization, including all within its fold.
And the organization of the women of the
Church is in itself a study.  The world has
nothing that compares with it in its harmony
and consistency throughout.  What is termed
the woman's rights movement is becoming
now a thorough system of organization, but it is
a long way behind in many particulars the or-
ganization of women in the "Mormon" Church.
That it is so little understood outside is due
mostly to the bitter prejudice against “Mor-
mon” women.  They cannot believe they have
any good in them, and look upon them as low,
degraded and unworthy of notice.  Were it
otherwise they might learn many truths that
would help them in the good work now being
carried on in the various societies founded for
advancement and support.  It is a great pity
that when strangers come to this city they do
not make the acquaintance of "Mormons" and
learn of matters from their stand-point; they
would then be much better able to judge and
to lecture or write, on "Mormon" topics.  If
there is nothing in Mormonism it certainly is
not worth so much talk and comment from the
newspapers, the platform and the pulpit.
	The principles advocated and practiced by
this people are of such a nature that they will
endure and gain ground notwithstanding preju-
dice, slander and misrepresentation, when those
who oppose them and seek to destroy and break
down their power will sink into insignificance
and oblivion.  They are the theories which, if
properly carried out in the lives of men and
women, will promote health and long life upon
the earth, strength of character and of intellect,
and produce a race endowed with higher attri-
butes and purer aspirations than any that exists
at the present time.


HOME AFFAIRS.
			_____
	WE have perused with much satisfaction the
pamphlet entitled “The Farmer's and Miner's
Manual,” recently published by Messers. Stay-
ner and Simmons, edited by Chas. W. Stayner.
It is clearly and forcibly written in a style that
cannot fail to be beneficial to those who are in-
terested in the laws pertaining to land matters
and mining claims. It will be to the interest of
those who are not well posted in the laws that
govern these matters to purchase this little
comprehensive work, for it is, multum in parvo.
The book is for sale at the office of Stayner and
Simmons. Price 25cts.

	ANOTHER lady graduate in medicine and sur-
gery. Mrs. Margaret C. Shipp had her diploma
awarded her at the Woman's Medical College in
Philadelphia, on the 15th of March ult. The
lady has been studying the science for the last
eight years, and during that time has given
lectures on these subjects in different parts of the
Territory. She has now returned home, full-
fledged with the title M. D. well-earned, and
prepared to enter upon the practice of her pro-
fession. Mrs. Shipp is a lady of culture, pleasing
and attractive in manner, and will no doubt
achieve success in a medical career. Utah has
now several talented woman physicians, and
others preparing themselves for this important
sphere of work.

	The Woman's Conference of this Stake of
Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-
bly Rooms Friday and Saturday, March 9 and
0. The first day was devoted to the Relief
Society, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Her Counselors, Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor and
Helen Mar Whitney were both present. Presi-
dent Eliza R. S. Smith and Counselor Zina D.
H. Young were also upon the platform, with
several other of the officers of the Relief Socie-
ty. The usual exercises were given, minutes
of the previous Conference read and reports
from the several branches in the Stake. Sister
Home and Sistereliza occupied the remainder
of the morning in practical instruction to the
Sisters, encouraging them in the performance of
the various duties of the organization. The
afternoon meeting was very interesting, the
speakers were spirited and touched upon mat-
ters of general interest. Sisters Z. D. H. Young,
S. M. Kimball, E. S. Taylor, H. M. Whitney,
P. Woodruff, E. R. S. Smith and M. I. Horne
occupied the time. The Deseret Hospital was
discussed, the silk interest, Dr. Barney's propo-
sition to give free instruction to the sisters who
are desirous of learning how to care for the sick,
and many other matters spiritual and temporal.
	Saturday morning, Conference of the Primary
Associations, Mrs. E. C. Clawson presiding.
The meeting was specially interesting, and
great improvement was manifested in the
several branches, through the reports of the
Presidents. Some very good singing from the
little folks.
	Afternoon, Y. L. M. I. A. Conference, Mrs.
Mary A. Freeze presiding. The reports were
very good. The speakers were Sisters M. A.
Freeze, Mattie Home, Sistereliza and M. I.,


Horne. These sisters exhorted the young
ladies to renewed diligence in the path of im-
provement, commended their labors in the past,
and blessed them for the efforts they had put
forth to bring others into the work. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months. Sung Doxolo-
gy. Prayer by L. G. Richards.
	We hope ere this that the ladies of Utah
have read Dr. E. S. Barney’s advertisement and
proposition to them, which was published in the
Deseret News.
	This being an exceptional opportunity, and
such a liberal offer, we trust an effort will be
made in this direction. It is something we
have long needed. We have visited the Dr’s.,
residence, and find she is making all preparation
to be ready, having faith that her proposition
will be accepted.
	Her rooms are neatly furnished, light and
pleasant, and well suited to the needs of the
student. She says she is anxious to distribute
the knowledge she has gained among the Saints,
and we doubt not she will make the instruction
useful and interesting.
	We hope that Presidents of Relief Societies will
take it upon themselves to make selections, and
wake up an interest, and if necessary aid those
that could not otherwise effect the desired object,
and in sickness they may have some one with
knowledge and skill, while at present many
wards and settlements have no one to refer
to in an emergency who has the requisite skill.
Sisters, consider the great need there is of
assisting in preserving and prolonging life. In
addition to the offer made in her advertisement,
Dr. Barney intends to have lectures from other
lady physicians, of acknowledged ability and ex-
perience. The Dr. says it will require ten days to
get the necessary books, and she hopes to be able
to commence the class in April.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL OF UTAH DELEGATES.
			   ______
	In the Senate of the United States, on Fri-
day, February 23rd, Senator Call presented a
memorial of Delegates from the Constitutional
Convention of Utah, which was referred to the
Committee on Territories and ordered to be
printed in the Congressional Record.
“To the Honorable Senators and Representa-
tives of the United States:
The undersigned respectfully and humbly
present this their petition and memorial as
follows, to wit:
We are citizens of Utah, authorized and
instructed by the people of that Territory to do
what is proper and possible for the preservation
of their rights and liberties.
	In their name we pray you to consider the
situation in which your legislation may place
them. We feel sure that you will at least hear
us, since our worst enemies do not pretend
that we have lost the right to petition for the
redress of our grievances.
	For certain reasons, elsewhere given, and
which need not now be repeated, we are entire-
ly satisfied that the act of March 22, 1882, was
an assumption of power not granted even to
Congress by the Constitution. We admit, how-
ever, that we are not the ultimate Judges of
that question. If you shall be convinced that
you, and not the Territorial government, have
jurisdiction to legislate on the subject of mar-
riage, divorce, and other matters of purely
private and local concern, and if you think it
proper to exercise that power without regard to
the nearly unanimous opinions of the people
affected by it, then we beseech you to modify
your law so that its penalties will be visited
upon those only who commit the prohibited
offense and are legally found guilty by a jury
impartially selected.

[Column 2]
	We pray you to repeal so much of the act of
March 22 as authorizes, or seems to authorize,
the disfranchisement of persons who are not
convicted, because it is a cruel punishment In-
flicted upon persons conclusively presumed to
be innocent.
	It is also hoped that the retroactive feature of
your law will be eliminated. No grosser viola-
tion of common justice could be committed
than a criminal law operating ex post facto.
	Respectfully but earnestly we protest against
the commission appointed under the act of
March 22. The people of the Territory had a
clear and unquestionable right to choose their
own local officers according to their own estab-
lished laws. Congress decreed that this right
should not be exercised except under the super-
vision of five persons to ba appointed by the
President. The commissioners, being appoint-
ed, undertook the duty but did not perform it
In consequence there could be no election with-
out a conflict with Congress, which we were
unwilling to bring on, however certain we were
of being in the right. There was no election,
and as a legal consequence, the incumbents of
the local offices held ovor agreeably to the stat-
ute in such case made and provided.
	But an attempt was made to punish the
people of the Territory for the default of the
commissioners by seizing the local offices and
putting the public money into the hands of the
Governor and his retainers. And this, we are
sorry to say, is asserted to be in accordance
with what is called the Hoar amendment, hast-
ily and inconsiderately stuck into the appro-
priation bill at the close of the last session. It
is clear to us, and must be to you upon reflec-
tion, that this amendment has not and was
not intended to have the effect claimed for It;
but if the courts of the Territory should give It
that construction all control of their own affairs
would be taken out of the people’s hands and
free government in the Territory would be at
an end. We submit to your candid judgment
whether the repeal of this amendment is not
duo to the character of Congress as well as to
the Territory of Utah. So, and so only, may
all pretence be taken away for the perpetration
of a huge political robbery.
The people of that Territory would be un-
faithful not only to their own rights and the
rights of their children, but to the cause of
liberty and justice everywhere, if they did not
remonstrate as earnestly as possibla against the
bill of pains and penalties reported by the Sen-
ate Judiciary committee. In open defiance of
the Constitution, it authorizes the capture and
imprisonment- of citizens, male and female,
known and admitted to be perfectly guiltless of
any offense. It violates the sanctities of the
family by compelling husband and wife lawful-
ly married and living together in conjugal har-
mony, to testify against one another. By a
legislative decree purely arbitrary, It disfran-
chises all female citizens, though their right to
the ballot is vested as clearly as that of the
men, and though it is not pretended that they
have done anything to forfeit it; the injustice
wopid be no greater to extend this disfranchise-
ment to the whole population, and probably is
expected to follow, either directly or indirectly.
The pending bill abolishes the election dis-
tricts for members of the Legislature, and if It
passes no election can be held unless a commis-
sion of Federal officers, known to be the bitter
enemies of popular government, .fahall rediatrlct
the Territory. This bill passed in its present
shape, and added to the hostile measures of the
last session, must almost necessarily result in
the destruction of the Territorial Legislature,
the seizure of the local offices, and the subjuga-
tion of the people to a state of ignomlnous
slavery,
Whatever may be the extent of the Juris-
diction over our local affairs which yon may
think It right to claim, we are safe in assuming
that no honorable man in or out of Congress
will stand up to defend measures forbidden, as
they are, by the express words of the Constllu-
tiou.
Nor can any excuse be found for them in the
antipathy which is professed by many, and
by some sincerely felt, for the doctrine of plu-
ral marriages. These penalties fall on the
whole population without reference to the per-
sonal guilt or innocence of individual.'. They
are stabs which roach the vitals of civil liberty
and do not touch polygamy at all.
We bring no railing accusations against our
enemies at home, who have labored to excite
animosity against us to break down our Terri-
torial government, and to rob us of the right to
manage our own affairs by agents of our own
choice. But we cannot conceal from you the
dread and terror with which v.e contemplate
the bare possibility of being placed under their
domination.
Possessed of despotic authority, with law In
their voice, with unrestrained power in their
hands, and a helpless people under their feet,
they would act after their kind and plunder us
without remorse. What chance of justice will
we have if we submit to their exactions? What
safety for our lives if we resist? With what
reason can we hope to escapo the fate of all
other communities placed in that unhappy
situation? Our case is even more forlorn in its
outlook than any that modern history records.
The men who are striving to become our mas-
ters claim the offices and funds of the Territory,
which are our undoubted property, In defiance
of law, justice, and the rights of self-govern-
ment secured to us by the Constitution. If
they succeed it would be mere madness to ex-
pect the smallest regard for our rights of private
property or personal liberty.
The undersigned were specially entrusted by
the convention which framedfor the people the
constitution under which they hope to be ad-
mitted as a State, to lay that instrument before
Congress and ask that proper action be taken
thereon. Inasmuch as our constitution Is fault-
leas and our population much larger than
that of some States already in the Union, we
venture to hope that our admission will not be
unreasonably delayed.
We implore you to take our case into your
consideration, and save us, as far as your sense
of justice will permit, from the great calamities
with which we are threatened.
And we will ever pray, etc.,
JOHN T. CAINE,
F. S. RICHARDS,
D. H. PEERY,
W. D. JOHNSON, JR.


.	" OBITUARY.
Death has made sad havoc in the little town of
Kanab; in the past three months. Many homes have
felt its icy touch, and many hearts have been left
desolate. The aged, the youth, the babe and the
young mother, have been ruthlessly torn from our
midst. It is peculiarly touching to see the fondly
expectant mother clasp her infant to her breast and
yield up her young life for that of her offspring.
	It is with regret that we record the death of two of
these young mothers.
	Nov. 5th, 1882, Elsie, wife of Joseph Hamblin and
daughter of Nephi and C. A. Johnson, departed this
life, three days after the birth of a son.
	She was born Nov. 5th, 1861, and consequently was
twenty-one the day she died. Although she was
young, she was a good Saint, a dutiful daughter, and
a loving wife and mother.
	From a child she was proverbial for her truthfulness,
she was a member of the Rollef Society; but having


two small children she could not attend as often as she
wished.
	During her sickness she repeatedly said, she wished
to go home, and told the nurse to have her babe
ready, for she would come for it in a few days.
Singular to say, the babe died three days after the
mother.
	A few hours before her departure, she said to her
husband, “Joseph, I am going home, you cannot come
with me now, but if you are a good boy you shall
come after.” With a smile, she gently fell asleep.
 Also, Dec. 21st, 1882, Fanny M., wife of W. T.
Stewart, and daughter of James A. and Mary J. Little,
died of puerperal fever. She was born in Salt Lake
City, May 3rd, 1862.
	Like her friend before her, she was anxious to go
home, and said to her mother, who was weeping.
Mother, why do you weep? I am not afraid to die; I
would rather live in eternity than here.” She was
good and beautiful, and loved by all who knew her.
She has left two sweet babes, as well as husband and
friends, to mourn her loss.
	Blessed consolation, to those who are left behind,
that these pure daughters and young mothers in Zion,
have gone to an eternal rest.
“Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord, for they
rest from their labors.”
						M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.
Kanab, March 2nd, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	Died, in this city, March 6th, 1883, of inflammation of
the lungs, Helen E., beloved daughter of George A. and
Lydia L. Alder, aged eighteen years, one month, and
seventeen days.
	A pure spirit has left us, one well prepared to dwell
in a holler sphere and among purer intelligences.
	Having been intimate with the family and being her
Sabbath School teacher for many years, I feel I can
speak advisedly in saying she was exemplary in all her
walks of life, also a member of the Young People’s As-
sociation (which was held at my house for more than
three years) I always found her prompt and willing to
perform anything she was requested to do. She was
modest in her manners and conversation, chaste in her
tastes, sensitive and delicate in her temperament, full
of filial affection to her parents, brothers and sisters,
and also most affectionate to her friends, myself in-
cluded. Ever willing and ready to make personal sac-
rifices to oblige others, especially those in advanced
life, to whom she was ever respectful. Always
thoughtful of her mother, and desiring to assist her in
her domestic duties. Not long ago she said to me, “I
should so love to attend Sabbath School, but I cannot
now, when I think how long mamma has done the
work, that all of us might attend Sabbath School.
Now I feel it is my turn.” She was very sensitive in
regard to her friends, and the way they felt towards
her. She ever reminded me of a delicate tea rose just
burst forth, and, oh! so sweet and fragrant, but open
the door and let the frost touch it, or expose it to the
too fierce rays of the sun, and it will droop, fall, and
die. The extremes of the chilling blast of winter, and
the burning heat of summer, affected her earthly taber-
nable; and so was her spirit chilled or brightened as the
breath of love and friendship rose or fell upon it. Her
natural disposition was cheerful, and she had implicit
confidence in the ordinances of our Church. She wished
to live, but her Father in Heaven desired her presence
in the serried ranks of the seraphic hosts, where she
now shines among the jewels of that glorious court.
	Shall we be so selfish as to mourn her exaltation by
which we lose her sweet society? No, we have dropt
tears of love upon her youthful bier, it was right and
just to do so. But now let us all, with heart and voice,
congratulate her, and say,
		“Joy, joy forever! thy task is done,
		The gates are passed and Heaven is won."
						JULIA CRUSE HOWE.
arch 10th, 1883.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
				______
	At our last choir practice the following preamble and
resolutions were unanimously adopted.
	Whereas, It has pleased an All-wise Providence to
call from our midst, by the hand of death, our beloved
friend and Sister, Therefore,.
Resolved, that we do recognize in the death of our


Sister, Mary Williams Dorlus, the loss of an able, effi-
cient and faithful member of the Ephraim Sabbath
Choir.
  Resolved, That we esteem her past, faithful labors
and devotion to duty, as worthy the fellowship and
emulation of us all.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband, father, mother, relatives
and friends, in the loss of a loving wife, kind and affec-
tionate daughter, and true friend.
Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
records of the T. L. M. I. A. of Ephraim, Deseret News
and Woman’s Exponent.
			Yours Respectfully,	
				JAMES STEVENSON,
				HELEN E. ARMSTRONG,
				GEORGE JENSEN,
				J. E. CHRISTIANSEN.
		In behalf of the Ephraim Sabbath Choir.
March 17th, 1883.


﻿Died, at Ephraim, March 16th, 1883, of palsy, after
five days hard sickness, Mary Williams, wife of C. C. N.
Dorious, and daughter of Steven and Emma Williams.
	Deceased was born January 2nd, 1860, at Ephraim.
She died as she lived, a true and faithful Latter-day
Saint, and her early departure from us cast a gloom
over the people.						COM.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
HYRUM.	
	The Primary Association of Hyrum held
their annual meeting, March l6th. The meet-
ing house was well filled. Quite a number of
visitors were present. On the stand were Presi-
dent Lucy Wilson, Jane E. Molen, President
of Stake, Christena Johnson and Frances
Stephens, Counselors of the Relief Society. Of
the brethren, Bishop Simpson Molen, David
Osborne and Alma Benson. Sister Lucy Wil-
son presiding. Prayer by Brother D. Osborne,
Singing. Roll called. Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved. Reports were then read
and accepted.
	Exercises. Lecture from Parley P. Pratt,
Milia Corbett; Recitation, Hannah Iverson;
Song, Joseph Wintle; Recitation, Clara Fellef-
son, entitled, “The Purest Pearl;” Dialogue
by Ella Stephens and Harriet Shaw, “Primary
Meeting;” Song, Sarah Hanson; Recitation,
“Cold Water,” by three little girls; Recitation,
Thomas Fellefson; Song, Emma Hanson and
Eva Unswortk.
	President Wilson made a  few remarks,
wished to do her duty at all times, and teach
the children the ways of life and salvation.
Sister Johnson was the next speaker; she spoke
encouragingly to the children, said there was a
great improvement in the Association. Sister
Stephens spoke a few words on the good that
was being done in teaching the children the
principles of truth, and preparing their young
minds for usefulness in the Kingdom. Sister
Molen spoke very interestingly to the children.
Bishop Molen said, “I regret there are not
more boys belonging to the Association; “said
the boys who attend the Primary are the best
boys, we ought not to drink liquors nor use to-
bacco,but should keep the “Word of Wisdom.”
	The Primary Association also gave an enter-
tainment in February. The exercises consisted
of songs and recitations, selected from the
Primary Speaker. We had a good time; all
present were pleased with the entertainment.
The proceeds were $15. We gave $7.20 to the
missionaries, and the remainder was used for
the Primary.
	Our meetings are interesting, and much
credit is due to the President and those asso-
ciated with her. Ever praying for the welfare
of Zion, and the success of the Exponent.
Alice TJnsworth,
Corresponding Secretary.

[column 2]
OGDEN, WEBER STAKE.
	The Relief Societies of Weber Stake of Zion
held their Quarterly Conference on Thursday,
March 8th, 1883, in the Ogden Tabernacle.
On the stand were President Jane S. Richards,
Counselors Hattie Brown and Sarah I. Her-
rick, and Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina
D. H. Young, Eliza Hall, also Presidents of
branch Societies, several Bishops and leading
Elders. After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, the reading of the minutes and re-
ports, etc., President Jane S. Richards made a
few opening remarks, felt pleased to see so
many of the brothers and sisters out to meet-
ing. Felt sure the Lord would bless and pour
his Spirit upon them; was grateful and thank-
ful to our Father in Heaven, for his goodness
unto us as a people. Prayed that all would
strive to keep faithful and true to their reli-
gion, remember the poor and needy, comfort
those whom we see who are in trouble or dis-
tress, for that is what these societies are organ-
ized for, and in blessing or helping others
wo certainly bless ourselves. Asked God to
be with each and every one of us.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith addressed the
meeting. She spoke first on the subject of
baptism, and how a real Saint of God felt
when this holy ordinance was performed; re-
fered briefly to the paying of tithing; thought
all should attend to this duty, even little chil-
dren should be taught this principle, no matter
whether we have much or little. The Lord is
very particular in small things; we know this
by reading the Bible. Let us also strive to be
particular in all little matters pertaining to
this life; by so doing we are preparing for our
future existence, which is something well worth
living for here. Spoke on the Sacrament of
the Lord's Supper, and the necessity of partak
ing of it with a pure heart before the Lord.
She dwelt some time on the subject of training
and educating the young and rising genera-
- tion, especially the girls; thought they should
have a good kitchen education, and that they
would then be good housewives, be good for
something, besides simply to drum a few tunes
on an organ or piano; the education of our
girls must be in everything that is ennobling to
womankind. Hoped all would be diligent in
attending to their duties, no matter how small
they might appear.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young hoped our minds
would be illuminated, to quicken our under-
standing, that we might prepare here for the
life to come. Advised the sisters to read good
books, to gain light and intelligence. Thought
that all we learned here, and every victory we
attain in the flesh, would promote our advance-,
ment hereafter, when we leave these frail
tabernacles, and go home to Father and Mother.
She spoke also on the subject of physiology
and health; thought the mothers of the day
should try and educate a race who might have
room to breathe. Let us promise even in their
cradle, that their hearts shall not be pinioned.
as in a vice, nor their spines bent like a bow,
nor their ribs bent into the liver. We must
teach in the nursery that the body is the tem-
ple of the Holy Ghost. We must leave no,
place in the minds of our little ones for lunatic
sentiment, that the minds healthful action and
the integrity of the organs on which it operates
are secondary to the vanities of external decora-
tion. If they have received from their cradle
a sound mind and a sound body, convince the
child that it is accountable for both. How shall,
the mother answer for it, in whose hand the soul
of her child is laid, if she suffers fashion to
cover it, melting the lines that wisdom penciled
there, till what heaven would have polished for
itself, loses the fair impression, and becomes
like common earth? Thought we should study
deeply, that we need not through ignorance in-
terfere with those laws on which the organiza-
tion of our children depends, rendered precious


by being the shrine of an undying spirit.  We
must not only pray for the welfare of the souls
of our children, but seek the good of its com-
panion, who walks with it to the gate of the 
grave, and rushes again to its embrace on the
morning of the resurrection.  Both Sisters
Snow and Zina dwelt long on the above sub-
ject.  I cannot begin to describe in language
as heart felt as they spoke.  It is hoped that
all who heard them will remember their words.
They gave much valuable instruction on a
variety of subjects.
	Sisters Brown and Herrick, and Bishops
McQuarrie and Critchlow,  also made some
timely and interesting remarks,  after which
the meeting was adjourned for three months,
with singing and benediction.
				MONTA HARRIS,
					Secretary Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SLANDER AND BACKBITING.

	You may think that I have chosen an odd
subject for my essay, but I think it is one that
is almost exhaustless, at least the evil results of
it are.
	We all, as you know, have our failings,  or
weak points, as they may be called; and slander
is a failing that is common to almost every one
of us.  Slang is a habit that injures us, but
slander not only injures us but those of whom
we are speaking. If any person has injured us,
let us not speak evil of that person, for the
purpose of making enemies for her, for in this
we may fail and only make enemies for our-
selves.  I never injured a person in my life but
what I was sorry for it afterwards, and would
gladly have recalled that injury; so it must be
with those who injure me; their consciences
will reprove them, which is punishment enough,
without being slandered by me,  which only
makes the breach between us wider, and mak-
ing enemies for her, but gain no friends for my-
self
	We should try to guard our conversation and
if we have any thing to say about a friend or
even a stranger, let it be good and not evil.
We should avoid speaking evil reports of an-
other; we cannot gain friends by talking evil,
therefore, as friendship is essential to happiness,
we must guard our conversation, and not forget
this saying of our Savior: “Blessed are the
peacemakers for they shall be called the chil-
dren of God."
	Social conversation is largely made up of
what is called scandal; it would be difficult to
find a talkative group of either sex, who could
spend an hour together without evil speech of
somebody.  It is far better to sit dumb than to
open our lips to speak evil of any one. We
should practice the golden rule, “Do unto
others as you would have others do unto you.”
When we have anything but a good word to
say of a person let us say it to the person con-
cerned, that he or she may have a chance to
defend him or herself.
	Happy are the few who avoid slander,  tale-
bearing,  and spreading evil reports. They
merit the approbation of the wise and good;
and happy would it be for the community at
large if this number could be increased.
We have it in our power to encourage or
discourage altogether this propensity to slander;
and as we are often the sufferer by the indul-
gence of this unprincipled conduct it is our duty
to discourage it.
	Do not therefore let our lips unclose to utter
anything that will injure another, nor do not
let us listen to any one who would fill our ears
with the failings or follies of another; and thus
we can do our part toward banishing from so-
ciety this pest of social life, slander.
	I have no doubt that while I have been
reading this, many of you have thought that
I preach what I do not practice. I do not


doubt but that I do, but we can take advice
from a fool, if that advice is good, without
partaking of his foolishness.
					ELLA DALLAS.


WOMAN’S VOICE.
	I noticed in the Exponent, a letter from
Ohio, by Mrs. Scott, which has caused me to
reflect considerable.  I have watched with
interest the papers, for the lady’s letters, as
also the answers by our sisters, and feel deeply
impressed to add my testimony.  That perad-
venture, out of the many, something may be
gleaned that will strike conviction sufficient to
inspire faith in her heart, and cause her to
implicitly believe that our Heavenly Father
is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever;
that He will hear and answer our humble
prayers, if we ask in faith, believing, but it is
by obedience to the commandments of God,
that we gain the “all abiding faith.” Dear
lady, you say you would give anything to
possess the abiding faith that so many of the
older professing Christians have.  I gather
from reading your letters, that you believe
there is a God; and that you have faith in
Him, or you would not have cried unto him in
your distress.  But you lack the all abiding
faith which only comes through obedience to
the law of God; then our faith merges into a
certainty. When we look around and view
the mighty works of Nature, the heavens
above, with its millions of stars, the sun, the
moon, and behold the revolutions of the same,
we are obliged to acknowledge a supreme
power.
	Then what is our duty?  It is, to find out
what our Heavenly Father requires of his
children, in order to bring them into a near-
ness with Him, that we may gain a knowledge
of Him.
	You will find, by reading the Scriptures,
what God requires of his children, in order
that they may come to a knowledge of Him.
He says: “Repent and be baptized and wash
away your sins.” The Lord, in giving his
commission to his disciples, says, “Go ye into
all the world, and preach the Gospel; he that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved.”
Mark xvi, 15, 16.  Also Peter, on the day
of Pentecost, called on the people, “to repent,
and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ,
for the remission of sins, and then they should
receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.” Hence
you see, that our Heavenly Father has provid-
ed a way, by which we can gain a knowledge
of Him.  He also says, you shall know of the
doctrine, whether it be of God or man.  By
obedience to these laws you have the promise,
of not only a knowledge of the doctrine, but a
knowledge of God, and the things of God;
and by the spirit of inspiration, given through
the gift of the Holy Ghost, the power to see
into the future, and to understand the work-
ings of our Heavenly Father with the child-
ren of men.
	By obedience to these first laws, or princi-
ples, you will be entitled to all the blessings of
the Gospel; to see visions; to dream dreams; to
have your sick healed by the power of God;
and “eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither
hath it entered the heart of any man, the
things which God hath prepared for them that
love him.”
	And our Father says: “He that loveth me,
will keep my commandments.”
	The Lord has greatly blessed you, in pre-
serving the lives of your children, and you
felt to call upon the unknown God in your
hour of trial.  I will bear testimony to you,
in the name of Jesus Christ, that if you will
obey the commandments of your Heavenly
Father, with an honest heart, that you will
not feel to say an “unknown God,” but that
you will gain a knowledge of God, and of his
Son, Jesus Christ; that you will be enabled to
go to Him, as you would to your earthly
father, in confidence and faith, knowing that
He would hear and answer your prayers; and
your mind will be enlightened; your under-
standing quickened; you will be drawn into a
nearness with God, and your soul will find
rest.  And you will not “get into the mud,”
but you will find “safe footing,” and true hap-
piness and satisfaction in this life.  Let me,
as a friend, beg that you will not procrastinate,
when your soul's salvation is at stake: if you
feel that the principles of Mormonism are
true, let no earthly consideration deter you
from obeying the same, as it is written, “that
the Spirit of God will not always strive with
the children of men.” And our Saviour says,
“he that will not forsake all, for His sake, is
not worthy of Him.” He also says, “if ye
love me ye will keep my commandments.”
	Praying the Lord will enlighten your mind,
strengthen your understanding,  and cause
you to see the light revealed in these last days,
for the salvation of this generation,  I sub-
scribe myself,	
		Your friend and sister,
				S. A. FULLMER.
Castle Dale, Emery Co., Utah, March 8th, 1883


RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL.
			________
Dear Mrs. Scott:
	I am as pleased to hear from you as though
I had met an old friend. I had been wonder-
ing what had become of you, and if you had
forgotten where we lived. I perceive by your
letter that the hand of affliction has been upon
your children, and that in answer to your
prayers they have been healed. The Lord
may have an object in this; He knows that
your heart is turned towards His people, but
preadventure your name is dearer to you than
the approbation of your Heavenly Father.
Weigh this matter over, my sister. He hath
shown kindness to you in the hour of trial, He
may expect something in return; He is a good
paymaster, be not afraid to serve Him, He will
not turn you away empty. You say in your
letter that you would give anything for the
faith the ancient children possessed. Faith
comes by hearing the word of God. Now my
dear sister, you have had a great many testi-
monies borne to you by the handmaidens of the
Lord, and that in humility and , sincerity;
these may stand against you in the day of
judgment. It is said that the Spirit of God
shall not always strive with man. And inas-
much as the Lord himself has condescended to
come down in our day and bring His Son with
Him and introduce Him to the Prophet Joseph
Smith, then an unlearned youth in his early
teens, you and I, and all who have heard the
sound of the Everlasting Gospel, must
stand accountable before heaven. When
Joseph went into the Woods and asked the
Father to show him which of the sects of the
day was right, the powers of darkness came
upon him in so much that he could not speak
or move, and he supposed he would be destroyed.
Then he saw a light descending gradually until
it reached the tops of the trees and supposed
they would be consumed; but instead thereof
two personages appeared, whose glory was
brighter than the noon-day sun. And one,
pointing to the other, said “This is my beloved
Son, hear Him.” The Lord told Joseph that
none of the churches of the day were His, and
that they had a form of godliness but denied
the power thereof. Joseph received visits from
many heavenly beings, he received all the keys
and powers of the Gospel of the Son of God,
and that from the hands of those who held
them in the days of the Savior, but were killed


for the testimony they bore of Him. Who was
so fit to deliver the keys of baptism for the re-
mission of sins, as John the Baptist, who ad-
ministered that ordinance to the Son of God?
Who was so fit to deliver the keys of the
gathering dispensation as Moses, who gath-
ered ancient Israel.
	If God could walk and talk with Abraham,
and if Sarai his wife could hasten to make un-
leavened bread, and Abraham commanded his
servants to kill a calf and hasten to dress it
that his friends might partake of it, for you
will remember that God declared Abraham his
friend, is there anything unreasonable in His
coming down in our day? is the world not
wicked enough to need a reform? does He love
us less than when He sent his beloved Son to
die for us? On one occasion after his resurec-
tion He appeared to his disciples as they were
fishing by the water side; at first they did not
know him, but when they had recognized him
He tenderly asked, “Children, have ye any
meat?” then turning they beheld a fire kindled,
and fish prepared for them. It would seem
that although his home was in the courts of
glory, yet the love that burned in his bosom
for his brethren caused him still to linger near
them. If He could eclipse his glory and
minister to his disciples in former days, has He
not the same will and power to-day? has not
the world been fed on husks long enough? Are
we not a blessed people, having received the
truth fresh from the courts of heaven; not the
old musty opinions of men, but the “living
truth,” brought by messengers sent from the
presence of God.
	The work we are engaged in is of God; can
man overthrow it? no! a thousand times, no!
Do we fear the machinations of man? no! we
scorn the very name of fear! Men may oppress
and afflict us, and take our lives; but we are in
the hands of God, and He will cause all things
to work for our good. That He will give us
strength to serve him all our days is the most
that we ask.
		Yours most respectfully,
							M. L. M.
	Salt Lake City, March 11th, 1883.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The woman who invented the submarine
telegraph received but $10,000 for that which
brings Europe within speaking distance.

THE Unity Club will give one of their artis-
tic and brilliant entertainments at the theatre
on Monday evening, April 9th, in favor of the
Deseret Hospital. The object is entirely be-
venolent. An able committee of ladies are
busily engaged in the preparations assisted by
Bishop H. B. Clawson.

 THE lectures given in this city by Phil
Robinson, Esq., on his experience as a special
war correspondent were very entertaining.
His letters, telegrams and writings are bril-
liant and shrewd. His articles upon the
Mormon question have been exceedingly fair
though humorously written. Undoubtly he
is a genius, at any rate he is genial and spark-
ling.
 MISS Julia Thomas who came to this city
recently from New York City for her health,
has decided to remain during the spring.
She has quite a large class in elocution at the
Octagon and intends giving a series of lectures
on Physical Elocution and kindred topics.
Miss Thomas is a highly cultured lady, pleas-
ing in her address and will doubtless win many
friends during her sojourn here. The lady is
also a newspaper correspondent, traveling with
passes from the press.
 THERE is nothing in God’s word that
teaches us the inferiority of woman, and she
is the equal of man. I do not see why it is
more inappropriate for a woman to leave the


kitchen and needle to apply her talents to
higher planes, than for man to abandon the
labor of sawing wood and drawing water and
engage in more dignified employment. The
useful life is the healthy life, and any useful
employment is elevating. Life is serious, and
it ought to be industrious; idleness is a re-
proach to any one. That which makes indus-
try useful must be sought for; and industry, to
he useful, must be systematic.—Rev. Howard
Crosby.

	Men in Ireland often get elected to Parlia-
ment while they are in prison, while in this
country, if one half of the reports are true,
men are elected to Congress who ought to be
in prison.


[Column 1]
	ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

			Z. C. M. I.﻿
		SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
		WW. JENNINGS, Supt.

(Picture of building.)

		HENRY DINWOODEY.
			FURNITURE,
			WALL PAPER,
			CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
		AND WINDOW CORNICES.
	1238
238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
			SALT LAKE CITY.

			DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

			[Column 2]
		MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
	of the Deseret National Bank, and half a
		block north, west side of the street.
		SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

			KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W.H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
	Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
		ete. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
			CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
		19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

		MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
	OFFICE ON GOBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
		Special Attention given to Diseases of the
		EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

			Special to the Ladies.

			AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
	LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
		FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
			RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assorment of
			DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
			fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

			ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
		PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
			and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
		OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the the
		NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
	Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

			A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Buildings; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linsoys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

		CLASSES in MIDWIFERY

		DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT
COMMENCES ANOTHER CLASS IN MID-
	WIFERY, April 9th, in Office over Godbe,
Pitts & Co's Drug Store, at 1 p.m. Lectures
three per week, for five months. Practial in-
struction and examinations by Drs. Anderson
and Benedict. Introductory lectures on general
anatomy and physiology of the whole system.
Manikin, plates and instruments for instruction.

	TUITION,			$30.
	BOOKS, 3			12.

	N.B.— Those desiring to join the class will
please send names in early, that books may be
ordered in time.
	For further particulars please write.

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
				HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, HOS. 124 & 126
		CALL AND EXAMINE
		Spring and Summer Goods.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Eights of the Women of Zion, and the Eights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 11.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1883.	No.	22.


A GIFT.
		______
Sweet souled and faithful one,
To-day I have no other
Dear gift, thee to bestow upon,
Than this—God bless my mother!

And with it, these fair flowers,
Emblems of peace and beauty,
Hoping they’ll cheer some lonely hours,
Of waiting and of duty.

A year ago—O how
Are earthly pleasures riven !
Father was with us then, but now, 
He sings God’s praise in heaven.

Never will be complete
Our peace and joys—O never !
Till in that holy, safe retreat,	
No kindred tics will sever.

But there, O. blissful hours !
When perfoct family chains,
Unite through Jesus’ love and powers,
And joy eternal reigns !
April 3rd, 1883. 					Lula.


LIFE’S LESSON.
Wouldst thou learn from Life a lesson,
	Learn’d but slowly and by few?
Wouldst thou know from Death’s dominion,
	How to win the Ever-new?
Then thy soul prepare for trial,
	Bare thy shoulder to the rod,
School thy mind for self-denial,
	Learn to love the Lord thy God.

Build no shrine to earthly idol,
	Lest there  come a shattering day,
Leveling to the dust thine altars,
	Driving all thy hopes away.
Pleasure's tree may tempt thee sorely,
	Golden apples grace the sod,
Touch them not!--they turn to ashes--
	Thou shalt love the Lord thy God.

I have gazed on beauteous woman,
	With a fond, adoring eye;
I have stood where Mammon's altars
	Rolled their incense toward the sky;
I have quaff'd the wine of Pleasure,
	Heard the winsome notes of Fame,
Armed with nature's gift and heaven's,
	Fought and toiled for honored name.

I have seen proud Mammon's towers
	Dashed to atoms by a breath;
I have lived to see the setting
	Of the sun of Love in death;
I have drank the dregs of sorrow,
	I have kissed the chastening rod,
I have learned, if Name be lasting,
	I must love the Lord my God.

What is wealth, that man should worship
	Dust from when his vileness came?
More than help-meet, lovely woman--
	Source and destiny the same?
What is earth, with all its glory?
	Earth shall answer: "Ichabod!"
Seek that kingdom all-including,
	Worship One--the Lord thy God.
London, March, 1883				O.F. Whitney.


[For the Woman’s Exponent.]
	WILD FLOWERS OF DESERET,

Tired of Winter’s chilling breath,
Wishing for Summer, thinking of death;
For I was weary, the sick-room dreary,
	O, so lonely and sad,
I longed for Spring flowers and sun-lit hours.
	And song-birds to make me glad.
I turned from the window’s busy scene,
The earth cold sheeted in icy sheen,


And the falling snow, to the warmth and glow
	Of the blazing firelight,
And at random took from the shelf a book-;
	My gloom soon changed to delight.

The words seemed traced by a magic wand,
The pen been held by a fairy hand;
Else how could they banish my gloom, how vanish
	So quickly the pain and regret?
The air in the room seemed filled with perfume
	Of “Wild Flowers of Deseret.”	

“Leonardo Da Vinci” first I read,
Sighing to think of the lovers—dead,
Then laughed right out at “A Lost Thought,”—
	And the laughing did me good;
For by the time I had finished the rhyme
	I felt in a happy mood.

“Grandfather,” “Grandmother,” and then
“My Heart and I,” and “Thoughts Within,”
Like sacred music rang, till “Polito Slang”
	Again woke the merry mood,
I cannot attest which pleased me the best,
	Each and all were so very good.

Ah, nothing is better in lonely hours,
Than this sweet cluster of Deseret Flowers;
Culled from the mountains, gathered near fountains.
	Fragrant with faith and love;
Giving cheer to this life of wearisome strife.
And pointing to heaven above.
Ohio, March 20th, 1833.              EMILY SCOTT.


THE YOUTH OF ZION.
				____
	It is evening, and while quietly thinking of 
the past, present, and the future, my mind es-
pecially dwells on the youth of Zion, male and
female, and wonder what they are doing at the
present time. Some may say, what buisness is it
of yours? Well, I know how mine are engaged,
and I think it would be well if all mothers
knew how their sons and daughters were em-
ployed; for verily this is a time for us to ear-
nestly watch our young people, and preserve
them from being enticed and overcome by the
evil one, and the temptations that exist, not
only in this city, but so far as I can learn, in
the various settlements. O! my young brethren
and sisters, flee from the evil as you would
from the poison of a snake; yea avoid the very
appearance of evil; take the advice and coun-
sel of those who have had more experience in
the world than you; think of the many privi-
leges you enjoy by being in this Church and
Kingdom, and the opportunities and induce-
ments held out to you, for gaining knowledge
which will fit and prepare you to fill honorable
positions in this life, and enjoy endless lives in
the worlds to come. O! ye daughters of Zion,
why will ye spend the precious time given to
you in frivolity, which I am sorry to say so
many do? Remember you are wasting the
moments that you should be spending in gain-
ing knowledge as to how you can best prepare
yourself for that high and noble purpose for
which you were created even to bring forth sons
and daughters, whose spirits were created by
our Father in Heaven, and have been reserved
to come forth in this dispensation, and you will
be held accountable for the manner in which
you train them.
	Can an impure spring bring forth pure water?
Nay, verily, and it is just as impossible for a
mother to teach her children the principles of
truth, unless she practices the same herself.
But some may say, I don’t know that Mormon-
ism is true, I have not had a testimony that
the work called the Gospel of Jesus Christ has
been restored upon the earth; if these be your
feelings, then rest no longer in this uncertain
state of mind; ask the Lord in humility of
heart, by earnest prayer, to open the eyes of your
mind to see and understand, and know for
yourself; and if you will do so, you will not be
long without a testimony of its truth, and that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Again,
there are many who possess a knowledge of its
truth, and are in the enjoyment of the blessings
of the Gospel. "They are those who take every
opportunity which they have to attend meet-
ings, read good books, and in every possible
way gain knowledge for the position of wife
and mother. These will be among the wise
virgins, who when the Bridegroom cometh, will
have their lamps trimmed and burning, whilst
on the contrary, those who have neglected to
improve their present opportunities, will find
themselves unprepared, it will be to late to get
oil, and they cannot borrow, therefore they will
not be permitted to enter into the Marriage
Supper of the Lamb.” These things, my
young sisters, are not to be trifled with. Then
seek while young for that wisdom which is of
far more worth than all the splendor or fleeting
vanities of this life; be virtuous and retiring
in your demeanor, let your daily walk and
conduct be circumspect, that you may not give
cause to any one to think lightly of you, for
verily a wise man will certainly look for and
admire a woman who is discreet and modest in
all her movements, and who is endeavoring to
improve in all that is good and praiseworthy.
That this may be the aim of all the daughters
of Zion, is the prayer of your humble servant.
	February 19th, 1883.			E.R.C.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
	MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
		AND PATRIARCH.
			---------------
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
			_____
	In justice to the wives who were sealed to
William Smith I will here say, that they were
pure and noble women, and they had supposed
him to be a righteous man. The Lord took
the first one, and the others, finding out his
true character, soon left him. After the young
wife left he married again. I understood her
to be a sister of his first wife’s. But she, like
him, was void of the spirit of this Gospel; and
she must also have been blind to his faults, or
to put the most charitable construction, it
might have been for the sake of her sister’s
children. None of us are capable of passing
judgment upon one another. That, we should
leave to Him who will soon come to judge
both the living and the dead.
	One of the most interesting incidents within
my recollection was the laying of the capstone
on the south-east corner of the Temple. This
was on Saturday morning, May 24th, 1845.
The description of it is accurately given by
one of the Apostles, who, with the rest, came
out from their secret retreat long enough to
perform this ceremony, when they again re-
turned to their hiding places.
	The Apostle wrote:  "The singers sang their
sweetest notes, and their voices thrilled the
hearts of the assemblage; the music of the
band, which played on the occasion, never
sounded so charming; and when President
Young placed the stone in position, and said:
The last stone is now laid upon the Temple,
and I pray the Almighty, in the name of
Jesus, to defend us in this place, and sustain
us until the Temple is finished and we have all


[Column 1]
﻿got our endowments.’ And all the congrega-
tion shouted, Hosanna! Hosanna! Hosanna,
to God and the Lamb, amen! amen! and amen,
and repeated these words the second and third
time, the spirit of God descended upon the peo-
ple, gladness filled every heart, and tears
of joy coursed down many cheeks. The words
of praise were uttered in earnestness and fervor;
it was a relief to many to be able to give ex-
pression to the feelings with which their hearts
were overcharged. Altogether the scene was a
very impressive one, and we doubt not that
the angels looked upon it and rejoiced.”
	“So let it be,” said President Young, con-
cluding the ceremonies, “this is the seventh
day of the week, or the Jewish Sabbath. It is
the day on which the Almighty finished his
work and rested from his labors. We have
finished the walls of the Temple, and may rest
to-day from our labors.”
	A great amount of sickness prevailed dur-
ing the summer months. The Apostles and
their brethren were in the habit of meeting
together every evening, and sometimes oftener,
at Brother  Willard Richard's house, to unite
their faith in the holy order of the Priesthood
in behalf of Israel.
	They also had to labor with their hands.
My father worked at his house all the time
that he could possibly get. July 7th he wrote,
“Twelve men came to work on my house, six of
them were masons. Much work was done.
*	*	I went to W. Richard’s to read history
in company with Brigham Young and George
A. Smith. An Italian brother Joseph Toronto
(now of this city), came there and gave up
all he had, which was $2,600.
	“Tuesday, 8th. Fourteen men came to work
on my house. 	*	*	Went with Brigham
Young and Willard Richards to the Temple.
Had council with the trustees. Gave the $2,600
to the Bishop. Visited some sick in the evening.”
	My mother’s babe was very sick at this time,
which fact father mentions in his journal as
being a source of anxiety and sorrow to wit-
ness his suffering. Two successive days some
of his brethren came in to join him in prayer
for him in the holy order. “Sister Jane
(Uncle Joseph Young’s wife) and Sister Whit-
ney were present and spent much’ time with us
to minister to our babe.”
	“On the morning of the 9th of July,” he
says, “I was sent for by Brother Willard Rich-
ards to administer to his wife who appeared to
be dying. About ten o’clock I went again.
Brother George A. Smith and his father,
(John Smith) Levi Richards and John Taylor
were present. We anointed and prayed for
her alter the holy order and she died in about
half an hour. She (as is well known) was one
of my father’s earliest converts in England.
I will here mention one or two incidents,
though this and much more has been published
in his history, concerning her. She was
the daughter of a Mr. Richards, a Presby-
terian minister; and when father first met her
she was visiting a family in Preston with
whom he was acquainted. As soon as they
were introduced she entered into a conversa-
tion with him on the subject of the Gospel.
He found her a very intelligent lady and very
anxious to hear and understand the doctrines
of the true Gospel. She went to hear him
preach that evening and the following, and
then she was fully convinced of the truth and
sent for him and expressed her desire to be
baptized, which request he cheerfully complied
with, and confirmed her at the water’s edge.
And as an illustration of his prophetic charac-
ter, the first time he met Brother Willard
Richards he exclaimed, “Willard, I have bap-
tized your wife to-day.” He writes in his jour-
nal, that Sister Jeannette Richards was buried
at six in the afternoon of the 11th.
	“On the evening of the 9th,” he says, “the
Bishops made a feast at the mansion." Broth-

[Column 2]
er John Pack had charge of the house.
Joseph’s family having moved back into the
White House, nearer the river. Father says,
“I went to John Pack’s to wait upon the
Smith family as the Bishops made a feast.
About one hundred persons present. All
things passed off well.
	“Thursday, July 10th. The Saints met at
the stand at ten o’clock in the morning and
gave alms to the poor. I spoke, also Brigham
Young, George A. Smith, John E. Page and
Orson Pratt. Adjourned at two in the after-
noon, as the heat was so intense. A great
many are sick.”
	After the meeting of fasting and prayer,
father says, “I met with my brethren in the
evening and prayed for rain.” And on the
13th he wrote, “On Sunday morning it began
to rain very hard—have had a beautiful
shower. This was in answer to our prayers.
The Lord be praised for His goodness.” He
wrote the day previous that his wife, Sarah
Peeke, was very sick at Brother Stephen Win-
chester’s, and he sat up with her most of the
night. The evening of the 16th, after witness-
ing the death of Brother William Gheen, who
died at 7 o’clock in the evening, father took
Sarah and Sister Winchester to the river and
baptized them for their health. He was pay-
ing them for the board of his wife and two
daughters, whom he had adopted. Brother
and Sister Winchester and their family, if they
had been our nearest kin, could not have
thought more of one another than we had done
from the time that we were neighbors in Kirt-
land, Ohio and in Missouri.
	“Brother William Gheen,” father says, “was
buried on the evening of the 17th, at 6 o’clock.
Most of the Twelve were present.” Brother
Gheen and family were among the Saints who
came from Pennsylvania. He had given two
of his daughters (Anna and Amanda) to my
father as wives, and did not consider it a
dishonor to be thus connected with him, but
quite the reverse. They have each borne him
a numerous family. And though Anna has
left us to join him and thousands of loved ones
beyond “this vale of tears,” her name will
ever live in the hearts of countless numbers
besides the many who are connected with her
by family ties.
	For five successive days father wrote in his
journal that his time was spent working on his
house, visiting the sick, in council, and a va-
riety of other duties. “Saturday, 26th,” he
says, “I visited many sick and attended coun-
cil. We nominated several officers for our
August election. All goes well, and the Lord
is on our side.” Sunday he mentions going to
meeting with his wife and daughter Helen.
“Brothers George Miller and Amasa Lyman
spoke a few words upon the Nauvoo House,
then Brigham Young spoke.” Most of his
time on the following Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday was spent visiting the sick; and he
speaks of a funeral that he attended with Brig-
ham Young, and speaks of them reading his-
tory and going on the Temple. The house
of the Lord was well on towards its completion,
And they could truly say that this was one of
the results of faith with works. These things may
look strangely to those who are unacquainted
with the principles of our faith and the great
work which we have been engaged in for over
fifty years, and especially that our people should
continue working at the Nauvoo House and
Temple, and at the same time preparing to
leave them to the mercy of a set of sacrile-
gious mobocrats to demolish. I think that this
should be a convincing proof (at least) of the
sincerity and honesty of their motives.
Nothing could daunt their spirits; but if they
had not enjoyed something superior to any
man-made religion they could never have
been supported under all those sorrowful and
trying scenes, It was through the united faith

(Column 3)
and prayers of the faithful few that we were
permitted to remain there long enough to finish
that Temple, that they might be endowed with
the blessings which the Lord had promised
them, and for which they cheerfully gave their
mite and labored faithfully to finish the house
which the Lord had commanded to be built.
Words cannot express the gratitude that I feel.
for being counted worthy to have place among
the ones of whom the Lord has made a “pecu-
liar people,” which is the only Church ever es-
tablished upon the earth since the one we read
of in the days of Christ, who believe and ac-
cept the whole of the Gospel as taught in the
ancient Scriptures, instead of choosing that
portion only which agrees with our peculiar
ideas and notions. The ones who do this are
blind indeed.
	If Christ is truly our pattern, and He had to
submit to bear all manner of crosses and sink
below all things, that He might rise above all
things, how are we to become joint heirs with
Him unless we have a similar experience in
this life? This people have proven their wil-
lingness to submit to be persecuted and hated
of all men for righteousness’ sake; and where
is there another people who have manifested
such true Christian patience, and faith enough
to trust in an unseen hand under all circum-
stances and still believe in and rely upon those
promises made by our Savior, who also com-
manded that we should become one in all
things, and said, “Unless ye are one ye are not
mine.” And because we are striving to obey
this command and every other Christian and
God-like principle, that we may be saved and
have part with Him in that Celestial glory
prepared for the faithful and pure in heart of
all nations, and that they may hear the same
glad tidings of great joy and be gathered with
us into the fold of Christ, making sacrifice of
our idols and rejoicing even in the midst of
our sorrows, when we part with our beloved
brethren, husbands, fathers and sons, who are
going forth in the service of our Master to
save the souls of men, that they may also be
partakers of this joy which is unspeakable and
that life-giving power which has ever brought
comfort and cheer to the humble heart and is
free to all who will seek for it; and because we
have sought to become of one heart and one
mind, we have ever been looked upon with a
jealous eye, and hated by the world, who refuse
to hear and understand the truth, but will mis-
judge us and all our motives. Union is power;
and this is the great bug-bear, and because they
cannot break up and destroy it, they consider
us a dangerous rival, and in their madness cry
polygamy as the only plausible excuse for break-
ing up and destroying this power;
	They do not understand the character and
the unwavering integrity of an honest Latter-
day Saint; but we can well afford to be chari-
table, for we know what is in store for them,
and many of us have drank deep enough of
the bitter cup of adversity to know how to feel
for our fellow creatures, and I fervently pray
for those who are deceived in consequence of
the great prejudice which is in the world, be-
cause of the awful lies which have been manu-
factured and set afloat, for effect, by the wicked
in our midst; and our foes are more to be pitied
than we are. They certainly have met with
poor success so far, and feel rather chagrined
at the present time. And Longfellow says, “If
we could read the secret history of our enemies
we should find in each man’s life sorrow and
suffering enough to disarm all hostility.”
	Supposing they should oblige us to leave
here, it would be doing for themselves a more
sorry job than when they drove us from the
United States, and if they were wise they
would leave us alone; for it has long since
been proven that we are like a mustard stalk,
which, if disturbed, will only multiply the
more.		To be Continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WO﻿MAN'S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO PARENTS.

"Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be
long in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee."

If thou with angry words would strike,
Or striking wound another;
O never let such venomed dart
Descend upon thy mother.

Remember all the days gone by,
When thou wert in her keeping,
When gazing on her love-lit eye,
Or on her bosom sleeping.

She gave thee of her life and heart,
And blessed the day that bore thee;
In love she ever bore her part,
And softly guarded o’er thee.

When helpless to her hand you clung,
Her warm heart fondly beating,
Upon your gentlest accents hung,
Its tenderness repeating.

But now to stalwart manhood grown,
Such scenes no more reverting,
Beware of words like arrows flown,
For who can tell their hurting.

When feeble stops yet bear her on,	
Toward life’s other border,
Still let the love she bears her son,
some balm in life afford her.

Let not thy tongue speak idle words,
Or thoughts to grieve or pain her;
But cheer her heart if lone or sad,
While you may yet retain her.

For soon her weary steps will pass
Beyond life’s busy portal,
And earth will hold one spirit less,
And heaven hold one immortal.

And then in all the coming years
That	hold	thy manhood’s glory,
You’ll see no more her smiles or tears,
Or listen to her story.
						MARY.


CLIMBING UP.
I am trying to climb up higher;
	The ladder of truth and light
Is pointing to God and heaven,
	And reaching beyond my sight.

Trying to climb up the ladder;
	Only one step at a time,
With Self climbing closer than ever;
	The ladder steeper to climb.

I tried to leave Self at the bottom.
	And take only Truth for a guide;
But then when I make my best efforts,
	I often find Self by my side.

If I could see over the ladder,	
	Or how many steps to the top;
If I knew that I never should falter,
	Or lose my foothold and drop,

I should be more sure of my climbing,
	But this I never can know;
I must go on trying and striving,
	Be my progress ever so slow.

I think I can see bending over,
	The face of the Father above;
He beckons, and whispers “Come hither,
	I’ll save thee by infinite love."

How gracious, how precious His promise,
	I trust Him, he never will fail;
If I only have strength to continue,
	I think I will surely prevail.

So many are climbing up with me,
	We’ll lend each other a hand
When we come to the steepest places,
	And do the best that we can.

We will lead the young and the tender,
	Put out a hand to the old,
As we climb up the shining ladder,
	The ladder brighter than gold.
					ESTHER H. BENNION
February 17th, 1883.


A TRIBUTE
		TO HANNAH T. KING.
Once more, dear muse, I pray thee, come to me,
And tune thy lyre, and let thy music flow,
In praise of her, whose soothing melody
Hath lightened many a heavy load of woe.

Her themes are not the deeds of mighty men—
The heroes of the crimson battle-fields— 
She sings of those whose lowly lives have been
Crowned with the glory that all goodness yields.

She sings of those whom poverty and care,
And all the changing evils of their lot,
Have sought in vain their weary feet to tear
From that sweet rest they have so dearly bought.

She sings of those whose gentle lives are given
To deeds of mercy and to words of peace;
O, may she sing, when life’s frail bands are riven,
With those whose songs of joy shall never cease.
							SILAS SELLER.


“A BEAUTIFUL REFLECTION.”

   It cannot be that earth is man’s only abiding
place. It cannot be that our life is a bubble,
cast up by the ocean of eternity, to float a few
moments on its waves, and then sink into
nothingness. Else why is it that the high and
glorious aspirations, which leap like angels
from the temple of our heart, are forever wan-
dering about unsatisfied? Why is it that the
rainbow and the cloud come over us with a
beauty that is not of earth, and then pass off
and leave us to muse upon their faded loveli-
ness? Why is it that the stars hold “their festi-
val around the midnight throne,” and set
above the grasp of our limited faculties, forever
mocking us with their unapproachable glory?
And finally, why is it that the bright forms of
human beauty are presented to our view, and
then taken from us—leaving the thousand
streams of our affections to flow back in Alpine
torrents upon our hearts? We are born for a
higher destiny than that of earth. There is a
realm where the rainbow never fades, where
the stars will spread out before us like islands
that slumber on the ocean, and where the
beautiful beings, which here pass before us like
shadows, will stay in our presence forever.
							TRUTH.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.

Laurel, Franklin Co., Indiana,
March 28th, 1883.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Having read your paper, sent me by an
Elder of your Church, who happened to be in
this section of country preaching, whom my
husband invited home with him to stay over
night, from a meeting held in this place in
October last, viz., S. R. Marks, I admit my
mind has been much enlightened and I must
say that I admire the tone of your paper, and
confess that it has done me much good. I
have always heard so much evil of your peo-
ple, that I was like many others, rather preju-
auced against your religion, but I am happy to
say through the preaching of Elder Marks and
reading of your paper, that prejudice is entirely
removed from my mind.
	I was always taught to believe that our sex
were very much abused, and kept in abject
slavery among the “Mormons,” but I am
pleased to learn from Elder Marks, and by
reading your paper, that it is the reverse; for I
find that your people are now fighting with the
arm of the law, and the word of truth, for the
rights of women; while those who have been
crying slavery, are the ones who are trying to
enslave you.
	I am not of your faith, but I must confess
it is Scriptural, and it must triumph over the
false systems of to-day, and I hope that all


those who fight against the liberty of your peo-
ple will come to shame and dismay; for liberty
is guaranteed to all by our glorious Constitu-
tion, and belongs to Utah’s people as much as
any in this, or any other section of our common
country, and should be enjoyed by its citizens
in common with ours.
	Wishing the greatest success for your valu-
able paper, and your triumph over the enemies
of liberty,
		I remain	respectfully yours,	
MRS. JOHN LEWIS JOHNSON.


NOTES AND NEWS.
The graduating class of the Chicago
Woman’s Medical College numbered eighteen
this year.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony reached England
safely on March 3rd. Her address is “Ameri-
can Exchange, 449 Strand, London, England."

	One hundred and seventy colleges in the
United States practically believe in co-educa-
tion.

	After grave deliberation Columbia College
decides to adopt the next thing to, opening her
doors to women students—an annex.

	Mrs. Lorreta Brownlow, of East Paw Paw,
Ills., has patented, a simple and convenient
machine for crushing and straining fruit for
making jellies.

	Anna K. Hawley, of Delhi, Louisiana, has
patented a button that can be readily attached
to garments without sewing and readily re-
moved without injury.

	The invention of the cotton gin, which
revolutionized the industries of the world was
due to a woman, though the patent was taken
out by a man.

	The woman's department of the coming in-
stitute fair at Boston has organized, with Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe, president, Mrs. S. E. B. Chan-
ning, secretary. and Abby W. May, treasurer.

	A co-operative store and woman’s labor
exchange has been organized for the benefit of
the working women of Washington City.
They keep on hand all kinds of fancy goods
and bric-a-brac; all kinds of sewing and fancy
work is made to order at short notice; and help
supplied for all kinds of labor, such as sewing,
sales-ladies, clerks, copying, and good domestic
help for housework. It is in charge of Mrs.
M. A. Butler, 516 Eleventh street, N. W.
Washington, D. C.


SISTER POLLY STEIN GAM.

   Sister Stringam is well known to the Latter-
day Saints as one of its oldest members and
her many friends will be glad to know of her
health and prosperity. Her birthday was cele-
brated at her home in Holden, Millard Co., on
Tuesday, April 3rd, when she completed her
80th year. A number of her family connec-
tions, of whom there were four of her children,
twenty-one grand children and eight great
grand children, called to see her. Besides
these a large number of personal friends were
in the company. The venerable lady was the
recipient of many loving congratulations, ac-
companied by tokens of affection in the shape
of presents. In the morning she had been
feeling somewhat feeble, but tno troupe of lov-
ing ones with their pleasant greetings quite
revived her aged heart and made her feel
much stronger. Sister Stringam was associa-
ted with the Church in the days of Kirtland,
and has remained steadfast and true.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	.	.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
				   Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,		
							Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1883.


FIFTY-THIRD ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Church, held
in this city, commencing with preliminary
meetings on Thursday, April 5th, and the regu-
lar Conference commencing April 6th, and con-
tinuing over Sunday, was in our opinion the
largest and grandest assembly of the Latter-day
Saints that ever convened at any time in the
history of the Church. The weather, part of
the time, was not warm enough to admit of
opening the large Tabernacle, and the meetings
were necessarily held in the Assembly Hall, and
thousands of people could not gain admittance,
but most of the time the immense Tabernacle
was open and well filled. On Sunday it was
crowded to its utmost capacity, and many hun-
dreds could not get in at all.
	There has been a general feeling of satisfaction
with the people, an appreciation of the great
blessings enjoyed through the providences of
God, and a desire manifested by the Saints to
persevere in the path of duty, to grow rich in
faith and excel in good works, keeping the com-
mandments of God and rendering obedience to
his laws, and trusting in Him for deliverance
from those who oppose his work upon the 
earth.
	The brethren who addressed the people
seemed filled with the spirit of their calling in
the priesthood and the power of God rested upon
them, and the immense congregations heard-and
felt the influence. The preaching was by the
Twelve Apostles and First Presidency of the
Church, and certainly was impressive and power-
ful. On the last afternoon of the Conference
President Taylor spoke of business matters and
gave his reasons why financial statements were
not submitted to the Conference, which was
satisfactory, and a vote was taken on the matter,
that proved unanimous. President Taylor oc-
cupied the remainder of the afternoon, speaking
with great power and grandeur. He referred
the people to the fact of their almost marvelous
deliverance, and called on the congregation for
an audible acknowledgement of the hand of
God, in delivering his people from the hands of
their enemies. When all that grand congrega-
tion responded to the "Amen" feelingly uttered by
the President; the impression was thrilling and
touched every heart, for every Latter-day Saint
could feel that this weak expression of gratitude
was only a feeble recognition of the manifes-
tation of the mighty power that can turn and
overturn nations and kingdoms at his will.
   To those who have eyes to see and hearts to
understand, it must be apparent that there is a
power with this people that the world cannot
understand or comprehend. Who would have
thought, except a Latter-day Saint, that so little
harm would have been effected, by the passage
of the Edmunds bill? And yet the facts are be-
fore the people, Zion continues to grow and in-


crease, the Gospel is being preached in every
land, and the honest-hearted gathered home to
the mountains. Temples are being erected to
the Most High, where the Saints can perform a
work for the living and the dead, that Israel may
be redeemed and all things prepared for the time
when the lamb and the lion shall lie down to-
gether, when Satan shall no longer have power
to afflict those who serve the living and true
God, and peace shall reign in the hearts of all
men and over all the earth.


﻿CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.

	The Constitutional Convention met pursuant
to adjournment at 2 p.m. April 10th in the City
Hall, Hon. Joseph F. Smith in the chair. The
roll was called and it was found there was a
quorum present. The chaplain offered prayer.
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
	Hon. D. H. Wells, chairman of the committee
on statistics and other essential matter, reported
that a document had been prepared, which he
submitted for the approval of the convention.
It was read by the secretary, received and adopt-
ed by the convention, and 1,000 copies ordered to
be printed for distribution.
	Hon. John T. Caine then presented a report
of the delegates, accompanied by the memorial
which had been presented in both houses of
Congress, and published in the Congressional
Record; these documents were also read by the
secretary, and a motion made and carried to
have them printed and published with the re-
port of the committee on statistics.
	A vote of thanks was given to the Washing-
ton delegation, and they were highly compli-
mented on the able paper preparod as a memo-
rial or a petition to Congress.
	Hon. F. S. Richards, in behalf of the delega-
tion, made a very happy and appropriate res-
ponse to the compliment tendered the delegates,
and recounted a few of the difficulties under
which they labored to bring the matter before
Congress at its last session.
	In the report of the progress of the committee
by the Hon. John T. Caine, the fact of the
death of Hon. Wm. H. Hooper, chairman of
the delegation, was alluded to. This reminded
the president of the vacancy and he made a
suggestion to the convention, that they take
the matter into consideration. One or two
members offered motions and others amend-
ments to the motions; but it was finally decided
that as the committee on nominations previous-
ly appointed in convention assembled, had not
been discharged, this committee should be pre-
pared with a nomination to fill the vacancy re-
ferred to at the next meeting of the conven-
tion. Carried.
	A motion made by Hon. Hosea Stout, that
when the convention adjourn it be until the
9th of October next at 10 o’clock in the morn-
ing, prevailed.
	Hon. D. H. Wells made some very sensible
remarks upon the political situation of Utah,
the constitutional rights of the people, their
heritage of religious liberty guaranteed by the
constitution, and the attempts of some of the
members of Congress to pass unconstitutional
and aggressive laws to oppress a free people
and bring them into bondage; he spoke of the
attempt to annul the woman’s suffrage act;
to disfranchise every class of citizens they pos-
sibly could in order to further the schemes of
some men who desire to obtain possession of
the offices of the Territory.
	Hon. John T. Caine made a few explanations
of matters of public interest that had not been
quite understood in regard to men and measures,
and which it was necessary should be made
clear in connection with what had been spoken.


﻿Hon F, S. Richards added a few words and
made some positive statements on the subjects
before the convention. Minutes were called for,
read, and ordered to be printed.
   The convention then adjourned until October
9th, at 10 a.m.


ARTISTIC ENTERTAINMENT.

   The Unity Club entertainment given in the
Theatre Monday evening, April 9th, was an
unqualified success. The programme had been
arranged with great care, and the members of
the club and other performers were diligent in
their preparations beforehand and they were well
repaid for their labor in the appreciation of their
efforts by the general public. The ladies of the
Unity Club are possessed of artistic, dramatic and
musical talent, taste, tact and executive ability
which enables them to carry out an entertain-
ment with but very little outside help. Bishop
H. B. Clawson has been specially interested in
helping the club, partly from a genuine love and
taste for the drama and stage, and also from the
goodness of his heart and a desire to aid the
sick and unfortunate. On the last occasion of
the benefit of the Deseret Hospital he was ma-
terially aided by Henry McEwan, Esq., who has
in days gone by been much accustomed to the
theatre and familiar with all details of the
mechanical work. The programme of the Unity
Club was one which could scarcely fail to draw
and certainly evinced taste of a high order.
The music was the best that the city affords,
and the singing was from some of the sweetest
songsters in these mountain vales, Miss Agnes
Olsen, Miss Nellie Druce, Mrs. S. E. Langford,
Mrs. Maggie Hull and Mrs. Edith Clawson
Knowlton. The piano solo by Master Joseph
McIntyre deserves special mention on his own
account and that of his teacher. Messrs. Care-
less, Carrington and Clive rendered their music
in the most approved and pleasing style. The
tableaux were all attractive and beautiful, fore-
most among them being four seasons, represent-
ed by Lutie Thatcher, Spring; Louie Wells,
Summer; Dalla Cummings, Autumn; and Clara
Felt, Winter. Their costumes were exquisite.
   The costumes for representation of character
in the tableaux were exquisitely arranged and
everything denoted cultivation of a high order.
Among the tableaux of a historical character
were Amy Robsart, groups of Statuary, Boadicea,
Evangeline and Joan of Arc, Cornelia, mother
of the Gracchi, Children, Early at the Cross,
Niobe and children, The Tomb Revisited, Othel-
lo and Desdemona, Faust’s vision of Margue-
rite, Execution of Lady Jane Grey. Besides
these were the Good old days of Yore, Love and
Duty, Tableau from Patience.
   In the comic, Lord Ullin's Daughter, The
Old Woman who lived in a Shoe, and Oft in the
Stilly Night. These were so exceedingly funny
as to provoke the entire audience to laughter
and loud and continuous applause. The reading
by Miss Julia Thomas was much better than at
her first appearance. Her selections were such
as showed to more advantage, her culture in the
beautiful art of elocution. She has a clear and
expansive voice, and is perfectly at ease on the
platform.
   Miss Ada Dwyer, one of our home artists, is
a great favorite on the Salt Lake platform.
Her voice is fresh and sweet and her style is
very pleasing and attractive. She impresses her
audience powerfully. She recited Jamie so
effectively that it seemed real. There is no
doubt that she will attain to marked distinction
in the profession of elocution.
   The Unity Club has certainly made a success
in this last entertainment, and the members
have every encouragement for future efforts in


the direction of culture and benevolent enler-
prise.
   Bishop H. B. Clawson and Henry McEwan
rendered the most valuable assistance, otherwise
the ladles would have never been able to man-
age all the stage arrangements so admirably.
   Success to the Unity Club, and may it con-
tinue to prosper and accomplish good results.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿DESERET HOSPITAL.

 REPORT TO APRIL CONFERENCE, 1883.

   Financial report of the Deseret Hospital from
October 6th, 1882, to April 6th, 1883, inclusive.
October 6th, 1882, to balance: cash, $1,858.00; or
ders, $103.20. Receipts during the six months,
cash,1,815.25; orders, $37.25; groceries, $47.50.
Received in fees per patients, cash, $483.10; or-
ders, $270.35; produce, $33.62 1/2; on a cow, $33.00.
Total, $825.07. Total cash to date, $4,101.85.
Total cash expense, $3,143.63; cash on hand, $1,
017.72. Total expense in orders, produce and
groceries, $129.68 1/2; orders on hand, $62.34. Total
expense, cash, orders, etc., $3,573.31 1/2; average
expense per month, $593.55 1/2. Fees to physi-
cians, $490.00; matron and helps,$734.00. Rent
for building, $360.00.
   In addition to the amounts donated in cash,
orders, etc., there have been donations of coal,
five tons, three stoves, a liberal quantity of wines
and brandy, towels, blankets, quilts, pillow-
slips and bedding of all kinds. One cow and
calf, one pig and quite a number of chickens.
One quarter of beef and one of venison and
many other useful articles. The names of the
donors would fill a pamphlet. Of the money
given, the Unity Club gave the largest amount
during the past six months. The Primary As-
sociation of the Eleventh Ward gave $41.00.
From party in the Fourteenth Ward by the
Relief Society and Young Ladies Association,
$20.00. Donation by Joab Lawrence, $100, at
New Year’s.
   The people have been liberal and the Execu-
tive Board feel encouraged in their labors. It is
expected that an annual meeting of the officers
and members of the Deseret Hospital Associa-
tion will be held on the 12th of May next in the
Council House in this city at 2 p.m, to transact
business pertaining to the Association. Re-
spectfully submitted.
						E.	B.	Wells,
								Secretary.
Apil 6th, 1883.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A VENERABLE WOMAN will be continued in
our next number.

	SEVERAL articles have been left out on ac-
count of tbe real name of the writer not being
given.

	Some reports of Societies and of meetings
and other matters which are not published will
be printed in process of time.

	THE Annual meeting of the Primary Aasscio-
tion of the Thirteenth Ward will be held in the
Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Friday,
April 19th, at 3 o’clock p.m, Brothren and Sis-
ters interested in these meetings are invited to
attend.
 AMONG other ways in which the Auerbach
Bros, celebrated the wedding of their niece, Miss
Meyer, to Mr. Barnett, on Monday, was by
presenting to the Deseret Hospital a check for
$50, and wishing the long continued usefulness
of that benevolent institution.


Evan Stephens’ Concert in the Salt Lake
Theatre, March 17th, which was repeated in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, April 5th, was a
grand success. The most beautiful sight one
could imagine was two hundred little choristers
on the platform, their sweet, fresh young voices
making harmonious melody in the most appro-
priate pieces. Mr. Stephens richly deserves the
congratulations that are showered upon him
from all sides. He has done a wonderful work,
in training the little ones in the beautiful science
of music, and he never wearies of his continuous
labors in that direction. Mr. Stephens is, with-
out doubt, a genius, and he composes music
with the greatest ease. He has ability and per-
severance, and with these he ought to excel in
the rank of composers.


﻿A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.

	How thankful we should be, as Latter-day
Saints, that we are permitted to live on the
earth in this our day, when the words of the
prophets of old are being fulfilled every day be_
fore our eyes, and that the power of Jehovah is
felt on the earth; for are we not the favored of
the Lord? Is He not stretching out his mighty
arm for our deliverance? Should we not be
proud of our name and station? What should
be our bearing before the world? We should
not give way to pride and folly, but seek to
serve the Lord our God with full purpose of
heart; a prayer should be ever on our lips.
Righteousness and truth should be our motto;
seek ever to draw unto Him who has said, “I
am the Lord thy God.” The earth is His and
the fulness thereof, the cattle on a thousand
hills; and wo are His Saints; and has He not
promised, in his own due time He would give
all to His people, but we must live faithful
before Him, Saints in very deed; shall we deny
any principle He has revealed for our exalta-
tion? No, verily, no! for have we not a testi-
mony within our hearts, that every principle is
heaven born; for many years have I lived in
plural marriage; as well might you tell me that
the sun would stand still at my bidding as tell
me Celestial marriage is not true, it is the grand
high school to exaltation in our Father’s King-
dom, where we shall meet with our Elder
Brother, even Jeses Christ, who sitteth on the
right hand of God, who has said, “Fear not,
little flock, for I have overcome the world.”
There is no happier lot than that of a true Lat-
ter-day Saint. Let us do the part assigned unto
us well, that it may be said unto us, “Well
done, good and faithful servant, enter thou into
the joy of thy Lord.” God bless you, dear Edi-
tor, and all your co-workers who write so good
for our dear little paper.			B. M. B.
	Richmond, April 4th, 1883.


﻿CORRECTION.
Dear Editor;
	I sent you an obituary of Sister Rozina Fyers, which
was inserted December 1st, please correct. For Rosina
Fyers, born in Denmark, Furs County, please insert
Rozina Shepperd Hyers, born January 21st, 1829, in the
town of Denmark, Lewis County, State of New York;
and oblige your sister in the Gospel,	 B. BROWNER.


[Column 1]
﻿OBITUARIES.
Died, at Fillmore, Febuary 7th, 1883, Sister Elizabeth
Richmond, daughter of William and Mary Green. Born
October 2nd, 1806, at Lugwardine, Herefordshire, Eng-
land. Became a member of this Church in 1810. Emigrated
to America with Apostle Orson Hyde’s company, on his
return from Jerusalem, ariving at St. Louis late in the
fall; remained there until Spring, then proceeded to
Nauvoo; there she was married to Thomas Richmond
and resided until the expulsion of the Saints, in which

[Column 2]
she suffered severely. After burying her husband on
Musquitoe Creek, emigrated to Utah in 1851, making her
home in Provo until 1854, when she moved to Fillmore,
where she has since resided until her demise. Her quiet,
peaceful countenance bespoke the joy aud satisfaction
she experienced in the everlasting Gospel. she was a
faithful member in the Relief Society, and with the
“widow’s mite” was ever ready with untiring zeal to as-
sist others. Her death leaves her aged sister very lonely,
as their lives have been so closely connected, sharing
each other’s joys and sorrows for so many years, that a
separation was painful, and the entire community
extend their heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved and
pray the consoling influence of the Holy Spirit, may be
with her in this hour of affliction. The funeral services
took place in the meeting house, where a very large as-
sembly met to pay their last respects to the departed.
D. K. O. 

Died, at Lake View, Tooele. County, March 6th, 1883,
of child-bed fever, Jane Adamson, beloved wife of Robert
C. Shields, and daughter of David and Jane Adamson.
Born February 11th, 1846, in Rumford, Stirlingshire,
Scotland. Emigrated to Utah with her parents in
1862.
She has been a faithful Latter-day Saint, and a true
member of the Relief Society ot the Lake View Ward.
She was a loving wife and mother, and leaves a husband
and eight children and a host of friends to mourn her
loss.	Relief Society Teachers.

 Died, at Malad City, Oneida Co., Idaho Territory,
Emily Jane Evans, daughter of Leonidas Clinton and
Margrett Emma Mecham, born April 19th, 1863, at
Richville, Morgan Co., baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, when eight years old; re-
baptized by her own desire in 1874. Died, March 25th,
1883, of convulsions, being nineteen years, eleven
months and six days old. She leaves a loving husband,
a little babe of a few hours, and a large circle of rela-
tives and friends to mourn her loss.
All who became aquainted with Sister Emily loved
her, for her amiable, cheerful, and happy disposition,
dispersing clouds of gloom with the merry sunshine in
her loving heart. She was Assistant Secretary to the
Y. L. M. I. A., which she filled with credit; she also took
an active part in our ward choir, and filled our hearts
with joy in listening to the songs of Zion as they flowed
from her lips; and though we sympathize with the
bereaved relatives, and acknowledge the hand of God
our Eternal Father in all the trials and vicissitudes of
life, yet we can say with the poet,
“Dearest sister thou hast left us,
And thy loss we deeply feel,
Yet ’tis God that has bereft us,
He can all our sorrows heal.
“Yet again we hope to see thee,
When death’s gloomy night has fled,
Then on earth with joy to greet thee,
Where no bitter tears are shed.”
Anne Sawyer,

Died, in St. George, of old age, Dioy Ray Perkins,
beloved wife of William G. Perkins, of St. George, Utah
Deceased was born August 12th, 1796, in Patrick Co.,
Virginia. Sister Perkins embraced the Gospel in 1840,
in MacDonald, Hancock Co., Illnois. Brother and Sister
Perkins emigrated to Utah In 1848, bringing with them
an only daughter, who is living in St. George, and who
has ever been devotedly attached to her mother, and her
constant companion through all the trying scenes of
travels, journeyings, and the sorrows of life. Aunt
Dicy, as she was affectionately styled by her friends
both young and old, was one of the most kind-hearted
and generous women that ever lived. In sickness she
was an invaluable friend; thousands in this city can
testify to her devotion in times of extreme trial, and
when sickness and death invaded the homes, Aunt Dicy
was sent for; she practiced as a midwife many, many
years, and was very sucessful indeed as a practitioner.
Warm hearted and sympathetic in her nature, tender to-
ward all, charitable and forbearing, a Latter-day Saint
in every sense of the word. Aunt Dicy died full of
integrity and rich in the faith of the new and overlast-
ing covenant; aged eighty-seven years six months and
twenty-one days. She retained her senses till the last
moment, and gave directions to her daughter Patty,
who she would Iike to have to attend to the last offi-
ces to be performed for her when she was gone. Sister
Perkins suffered much foreight weeks in her last illness,
“Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord,”


....We extend, our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
husband and family, and especially to the daughter who
is left so lonely by the mother’s death.
									E. B. W.

	Polly Ann Lane Greer was born in Washington Co.,
Texas, May 1st, 1849, and was married to A. V. Greer
November 2nd 1865, according to the laws of the State
in which they resided, (for time.) On the 2nd day of
July, 1878, they were sealed for time and all eternity ac-
cording to the celestial law of marriage, in the St.
George Temple. Sister Greer was baptized by Elder
Israel D. Alphin, April 18th, 1865, in Bosque Co., Texas.
Brother and Sister Greer emigrated to Utah in 1877, and
to Arizona in 1878. Sister Greer died at Amity, Apache
Co., Arizona, November 28th, 1883, at 6.20.a.m., of con-
sumption. She was a true Latter-day Saint, and re-
ceived with joy all the principles of the Gospel.
	She was set apart as President of the Primary Associa-
tion of this place November 2nd, 1882; she was an affec-
tionate and dutiful companion, a kind mother, and
truely a good neighbor. She departed in peace and full
faith of the Gospel, and an assurance of eternal life in
the Kingdom of God, where she will eventually be re-
united with her husband and little ones, and beloved
brethren and sisters who had not forsaken her in the
dark valley and the shadow of death. She was an ex-
emplary woman and beloved by all. She was the
mother of six children, three girls and three boys. Her
last words to her husband were, I want you to live your
religion and get another wife, one that will suit you.
To her eldest girl Mollie she said, Are you prepared
to give your mother up? the child sobbed no! then she
counseled her to take care of the little brothers and
sisters that would be left lonely at her death, she en-
treated her to be reconciled, and said she must be a good
girl. To her next daughter Sue, she said, I love you Sue,
and then her spirit departed so quickly it could hardly
be realized.							COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.
			    _____
		MESA CITY, ARIZONA.
	Some time since initiatory steps were taken
to organize a Y. L. M. I. A., and on January
12th, 1883, the organization was effected, with
the following officers, who were set apart by
President A. F. Macdonald, Bros. Richens,
Stewart and Carter, viz., President, Mrs., Zulie
Kimball; Counselors, Miss Etta Pomeroy and
Miss Beckie Richens; Secretary, Miss Gertrude
Pomeroy; Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Jennie
Bush; Treasurer, Phoebe Shepard.
	Our society meets weekly, and from the
energetic zeal manifested we hope to attain a
higher degree of excellence in the scale of
intellect.
				JENNIE BUSH,
		Corresponding Secretary for Y. L. A.
				_____
	   WEST BOUNTIFUL PRIMARY.
	Our Association is not a large one in point
of numbers, but the little folks are striving to
improve themselves, and most of them are
much interested. We have had two Primary
concerts here for the benefit of the Association,
which were well attended. They were a great
encouragement to the children, and reflected
credit upon their endeavors. Praying that
the Lord will bless all the Primary associations
and the efforts of those who are laboring in the
good cause.
		MISS JULIA FACKRELL,
							Secretary.
				_____
		AMITY, ARIZONA.
	On November 2nd, 1882, a special meeting
was called in Amity, Arizona, and Bishop
Albinon M. Holden organized a Relief Society
with the following officers, who were unani-
mously sustained by the vote of the people:
Mrs. Martha Bigelow, President; Susan John-
son and Lucinda Holden, Counselors; Mary
Emily Marble, Secretary; Celestina Marble,
Treasurer. Nineteen members are enrolled


and four teachers have been appointed to visit
among the sisters. We hold our meetings
twice a month at 2 o'clock p.m.
	A Young Ladies’ Association has also been
organized with Julia A. Johnson, President;
Lucy Norton and Melvina Gunn, Counselors;
Ellen Bigelow, Secretary; L. Jackson, Assis-
tant Secretary; and Maria S. Holden, Treasu-
rer. There are fourteen members enrolled.
	A Primary Association was organized with
Mrs. Polly Ann Greer, President; Priscilla
Hamblin and Lora A. Brown, Counselors;
Susan Greer, Secretary; and Ella Hamblin,
Treasurer. Thirty-four members enrolled.
The Association hold their meetings every
Saturday at 2 o’clock and they are generally
well attended.
	The sisters are diligent and faithful in the
performance of their duties, the Bishop and a
few of the other brethren occasionly visit our
meetings and counsel and encourage us. Al-
ways praying for the welfare of Zion and the
advancement of mankind, including the eleva-
tion of woman, and also for the success of the
EXPONENT as the advocate of woman’s cause,
I have the pleasure to subscribe myself,
			Yours in the Gospel,
				MARY E. MARBLE,
						Secretary.


_______________________________
﻿PRINCESS MARY, DAUGHTER OF
              CHARLES I.
                      ______
          BY HANNAH T. KING.
                      ______
The royal family of Stewart were remarka-
ble for their beauty, for many fine qualities,
but most of all for their misfortunes! The
Princess Mary, daughter of Charles I, was
an exception in the catalogue, and yet little
has been historically written of her; while
other princesses’ lives have been traced on
the page of history again, and again; she had
a little sister Elizabeth, who died at Carris-
brook Castle while a child, and Queen
Victoria has had a lovely monument erected
to her memory in St. Thomas’s Church, Isle
of Wight. It will be remembered that
Charles I. married a beautiful French Prin-
cess, named Henrietta Maria, the youngest
daughter of Henry IV of France, and his
Queen Mariede Medices; she was not consider-
ed a very wise or suitable wife for an English
king, partly on account of her being a zealous
Roman Catholic, and that her training and
education unfitted her for so important a
position; but she was beautiful, and the king
loved her, and she returned his love. Her
eldest son, afterwards Charles II of England,
was born at Greenwich; his mother declared
him to be an ugly, though a very fine child,
and so solemn in his infant ways, that she felt
he was far wiser than herself. The next ar-
rival was a little daughter, born at Whitehall,
London, on the 4th of Nov., 1631, and was
warmly welcomed by both parents, but she
was a very delicate child, and so caused them
much anxiety; on this account they had her
baptized when only a few days old, by the
name of Maria, after her grandmother; they
were very poor at this time, and it suited their
circumstances to have a private christening, as
the Parliament would not vote more supplies
for them. The child was provided with a
nurse, and the Countess of Roxburgh was her
governess from the first day of her life! When
two years old, an establishment was arranged
for her, which certainly did not indicate pov-
erty; besides a nurse and three watchers, a
lady of the bedchamber, a seamstress, a tailor
and shoemaker, a gentleman usher, two pages,
a laundress, three grooms, four footmen, five
kitchen servants, a coachman, and more im-
portant than all, a good physician, Dr. Mayer,
whose skill and care were supposed to have
saved her life when quite an infant, and con-
sequently was much esteemed by the king,
her father, who was obliged to go to Scotland
soon after Mary’s birth, and so was particular-
ly anxious that her health should be strictly
attended to in his absence; the diet provided
for the little lady’s nursery was more substan-
tial than is procurable for children in this age,
being “manchet and fine bread, mutton or
chicken with all,” and the breakfast must have
been early, as it is reported the children dined
between ten and twelve, their dinner was game
and meat of various kinds, custards and sweet 
tarts, and Gascony wine; on fast days fish
instead of meat, supper the same, but not quite
so heavy. They lived at St. James’s Palace,
London, the greater part of the year, which
was a favorite place with the queen, their
mother, and she loved to walk in the beautiful
garden with the children, carrying the baby
in her arms, singing to it, and talking and
laughing with them.
  Charles I. was anxious that his children
should all speak English as their mother-
tongue, though his wife gave him some trouble
by her preference for her native  language, but
as her sons grew up and visited the French
court, they were unable to converse except in
English! The queen was, of course, a Roman
Catholic, and used to give  Mary rosaries and
crosses, and to take her into the chapel for
mass; when Mary was eight years old the king
found out what was going on, and positively
forbade her being taken there again, and in-
sisted that nothing should ever be said to her
against the protestant faith. She grew to be
a pretty child, and a devoted daughter to her
kind and good father her brother Charles
was her favorite companion.
  A very important event in Mary’s life was
brought about in consequence of her grand-
mother, Marie de Medicie, visiting England;
she came without being invited because it
happened to be convenient to her; this visit
was not an agreeable one, though the queen
was pleased to present her children to her
mother: and she told her “the king had made
her a happy wife, happy mother and a happy
queen!” But even at this time trouble was
gathering around the king, who, while this
happy reunion was taking place, was marching
at the head of his army against his Scotch
subjects, causing his family much sorrow and
anxiety; little Mary began to notice day after
day the grief on her mother's face and the
tears shed by her governess, the countess of
Roxburgh, who had been a second mother to
her, and whom she loved very much, but
whose Husband and son were fighting against
the king; and they missed their pleasant
walks at Richmond or Hampton Court, and
thought it very strange and disagreeable never
to be allowed to go out of doors without a guard
of armed soldiers; even at night her sleep was
disturbed by the tramp of the sentries at the
gates, and the poor child began to look care-
worn like the queen, her mother; at this time,
though so young, a way was already being
made for her to escape from the evils that were
coming on her father’s house; for Marie de
Medicie was the bearer of a message from the
Prince of Orange, asking her in marriage for
his son. Charles I. was very willing to listen
to such proposals for his younger daughters,
but he had more ambitious views for Mary,
besides which he loved her so much, that
he shrank from parting with her.	But
he found that large offers of wealth
were made for the bride, and that the Prince
of Orange would undertake to assist him in
his struggle with his rebellious subjects, and,
moreover, the little girl, who perhaps under-
stood what she had seen with her parents,
that difference in religion caused much misery
between husband and wife, told her father
that she should prefer being married to a


[Column 1]

﻿protestant partner. This decided the matter,
and in April, 1641, the young prince came
over, escorted by twenty vessels, and landed
at Gravesend, where he was met by a royal
equipage, and driven through London to
Whitehall where Charles and Henrietta re-
ceived him most affectionately; Mary was not
there, for she was in bed, poor child, at Somer-
set House with a feverish cold and swollen
face, but her bridegroom of sixteen begged so
hard to be permitted to see her, that the king
and queen took him thither, and the prince
was introduced to her by them, and he kissed
the little girl in spite of her swollen face, and
told his father in his first letter that she was
sweet and lovely; although young, he was very
manly in his manners and was highly accom-
plished, spoke four European languages, a good
mathematician, well acquainted with history,
both of his own country and that of others,
and had long been admitted to sit in the coun-
cils of the state, and Mary, from sympathy
with the trials of those she loved, was older
than her years. Arundel House in the Strand
had been fitted up for his reception, and he
had a private key to the garden of Somerset
House. A frequent interchange of visits took
place, and marriage was proposed and earnest-
ly insisted upon; the king objected in consid-
eration of the youth of his daughter: but, alas!
heavy clouds had long been gathering around
him and his throne, and he had much desired
to find a safe asylum for his beloved family,
for Charles was a devoted husband and father;
it was now proposed by the Prince of Orange,
the prince's father, that the marriage should
be solemnized, that the young princess should
still remain under the care and jurisdiction of
her mother for two years, that the queen
should accompany the young bride to Hol-
land, and at the expiration of the two years,
she should pass to the house of her husband.
Charles at last bowed to a dire necessity that
surrounded him and his family; the marriage
took place with the usual court ceremonies, as
soon as preparations could be made ready.
A royal vessel was duly fitted out, and then
came the cruel separation, the king was per-
fectly unmanned at parting with his almost
worshiped child, for having a mind beyond
her years she had been the solace and comfort
of his troubled life; he repeatedly clasped her
in his arms, blest her and wept bitter tears
over her; probably he had a presentiment that
their separation was final. As long as the
vessel was in sight he stood on the shore mak-
ing fond signals of adieus, he then called for
a swift horse that he might rapidly ride to a
high eminence that still commanded a view of
the ship that bore away his heart's treasures!
Never to meet again on earth! Time passed—
the final tragedy of regicide is history. Mary
mourned the sad, sad finale of her beloved
father, but her mother and her husband blest
and consoled her; the two years with her
mother was religiously kept sacred and then
she was placed in the beautiful home that had
been fondly prepared for her by the hand of
love. Alas, a very few years elapsed before
this lovely and chaste union was dispelled by
the cruel hand of death, the young prince
was seized with malignant smallpox, and left
Mary a widow at nineteen.
	At the restoration of Charles the Second,
he invited his widowed neice and her boy to
come and make her home in England, she
accepted the kindly invitation, and Whitehall,
the home of her childhood, was appointed for
her residence. (A window is still shown in
that fine building from which Charles I.
emerged to walk to the fatal block, from
whence he was ushered into eternity.)
	Mary had not resided long in the beautiful
home of her childhood, when she was attacked
by smallpox, which in a short time terminated
her life in the very bloom of womanhood,

[Column 2]

leaving her son, who in after years ascended
the throne of England by the title of William
III, having married Mary, the eldest daugh-
ter of the deposed King, James II. Parlia-
ment desired that her name should be conjoint-
ly blended with his in the government of the
kingdom, and hence they ascended the throne
unitedly as William and Mary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE MARKET-PLACE AND THE PIC-
		TURES OF MUNICH.
				Munich, Oct. 7th, 1882.
	We have with us in this second visit to this
our favorite city of Germany, a dear friend
whose feet have never trod these old streets
before. The delight of the newcomer at the
place seems to quite keep pace with our own
satisfaction in showing its riches. We wax elo-
quent over the market-place; we coax our
friend through a quaint gateway, and then
lead on to the picturesque square where the old
women have set out their wares to the best
advantage. We hunt up one old woman in
particular. She has always been an especial
attraction to us. Her specialty, which she
keeps heaped up in little tubs in front of her,
is, in American parlance, “pot cheese.” Here
we buy it by the spoonful. It is one of our
luxuries. We indulge in it frequently; partly
to please the old woman, partly to please our
own taste. It reminds us of a lovely spot far
over the blue sea, a beautiful country home
where so many happy summer hours of our
early years were spent. Anything here which
recalls that home and those who were the
charm of the old house is a delight to us in
this far away land. The dear hands whose
loving ministrations wrought so unceasingly for
the comfort or the pleasure of all who had the
fortune to be gathered under her hospitable
roof, have long since ceased their labor, but
her gentle deeds and loving words follow us
even into highways and byways of the old
world.
	This market-place of Munich is particularly
quaint and attractive, large and irregular in
shape—it gives room for many a picturesque
group, which might well delight the heart of any
artist from our own shores whose eye should
fall upon the like for the first time.
	We leave the old square and its comical at-
tractions, and post off to the old Pinakothek.
How glad we are to get into it again. We
have been in Rome, in Florence, and in Venice
since we took our last look here. We have
seen a great deal that is very beautiful, but our
affection for the Munich Gallery is in no wise
shaken. There is certainly no collection of
Rubens’ works anywhere in Italy which can
equal in value and variety the one found here.
Murillo’s Italian children are like a magnet,
and draw us irresistibly to the further end of
the building. They are just as fascinating as
they were months ago. We find ourselves
among old friends. A catalogue is not in order
here for us. We can find all we want without.
We know just where to find the treasures of
Van Dych, and Titian, and Paul Veronese.
We feel as though we were wanderers who had
come home, and a great feast had been spread
for us. Rembrandt’s scenes from the passion
are as grand—grander in our eyes—than they
were before we went south. Del Sarto is as
full of sweetness in his holy family here as we
shall ever hope to find him. Wouverman,
Ruysdael, Brouer and Tenieas tempt us into
the cabinets with as eager steps as in the days
of our earlier aquaintance. Holbein, Durer,
Quinten, Matsys, are prominent in the front
rooms just as we left them—just as we must
leave them and all the treasures which come
after them—and go away soon, not to come
back again for a long, long time, if ever. It is
not so very easy to turn one’s back on the

[Column 2]
wealth of this old Pinakothek and walk quiet-
ly away, knowing in your own heart you may
never look upon its like again. Bavaria has
laid hold on many a rare treasure of art. She
keeps them with most religious care, and is a
jealous guardian of all the good gifts committed
to her charge. With reluctant feet we go out
of the doors of this famous building, grateful at
least for the small fraction of its reflected
beauty that our memory can carry over the
rest of our journey through life.
	In these, our farewell visits, we do not forget
the soldiers. We must see one more drill.
We find them “on duty,” drilling away, exactly
as we left them months ago. They are as
sturdy, strong and stalwart as ever. We act-
ually do believe if this German nation lived on
our side of the water we would be obliged to
keep a large standing army under rigorous
drill if we wanted to be sure of keeping them
at a respectful distance. The entire business of
this great kingdom seems to be the training of
soldiers. The “goose step” provokes anew to
laughter,
	In the afternoon we go to the National Mu-
seum, glad of even a hasty peep once more at
its contents. Weeks only could give one, by
patient study, a satisfactory idea of its vast col-
lections. We have become somewhat familiar
with the building and its wealth of rare antiqui-
ties, and we guide our friends on to its greatest
objects of interest in a sort of despairing con-
dition of mind because we can do but little
more than make a hasty excursion trip through
these wonderful rooms so full of the relics of
other centuries—rich mosaics, rare tapestry
from Raphael’s cartoons, Roman antiquities,
ceilings, marbles, casts, tombstones, jewels and
costumes—all showing the progress of civiliza-
tion, some from the earliest ages, others of more
recent date. In our own land, which is so new,
it would be quite out of the question for us to
understand how these aristocratic old nations
cling to their past. Their heroes have lived in
it. Their poets have sung of it. Everything
which belonged to it is sacred in their eyes.
This particular collection is almost inexhaust-
ible in interest and extent. We wander up
stairs and down, taking in what little we can
out of the great variety before us. The day
comes to an end as far as regular sight-seeing
is concerned.
	We are glad to drop into Cafe Lutz for a cup
of its excellent coffee and queer cakes. When
we are rested we go out for a stroll in the Hof-
garten, look at the historical frescoes in the ar-
cades which open out on to the garden and
walk over to the lower parade ground to see
what the soldiers are doing there, and we feel
after the day’s work that we have been here a
long time. We have renewed so many delight-
ful associations, we don’t quite credit the fact
that we have not yet slept in the old city since
our return.
	We go back to our quarters tired physically
and mentally. The good frau is waiting for us
She has one of her most tempting German
meals ready for our famished condition. She
refreshes us with a cup of tea and produces
Marie and Poots to our no small delight. They
are as bright and fresh, as cute and charming
as ever. They are a picture in themselves—
the sweetest, prettiest German children it is
possible to imagine. We were more than glad
to get hold of the dear little things again. It
was right restful to fall into the kindly frau’s
motherly care once more. The dining salon
looked as cheery as ever, and the valuable frieze,
painted by the artist son-in-law, still lent its
grace to this well-remembered room. We missed
the faces which had gathered round the table in
the winter time before. Nearly every one had
“gone on,” and we were left alone in our glory.
Many of these friends had met us more than
once during our wanderings; others shall we
hope to see again. The meetings are for the


most part better than the partings. It was
quite delightful to put our tired head on the fa-
miliar pillows once more, balance the comical
little feather bed over our feet and give our-
selves up to the contemplation of our surround-
ings. The next day we could devote to the
churches, which are more than ordinarily in-
teresting in this old catholic city. We found
our thoughts rather like dissolving views—now
one thing and now another—quaint gables,
marketwomen and costly relics faded out of
mind at last, leaving us fast asleep in Munich.
Ex.		RUTH RANDOM.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

MEN'S RIGHTS.

	Men's rights! the reader is saying in sur-
prise, why we always supposed men not only
had rights, but the power to grant similar per-
sonal possessions to others. For men style
themselves "lords of creation," and boast on
Scriptural grounds that in their faces the
image of God dwells. And so it should.
	A maiden lady whose business had thrown
her much with that shrewd class of men called
lawyers, by whose craftiness, or her own ig-
norance, a handsome property suddenly van-
ished, bewailed the degeneracy of men and the
advantage they often took of poor, defenceless
women. "Well," answered the translator of
the law, "what's a woman that you should
make such a fuss of her?" "What's a man?"
tartly answered the aggrieved party. "A man!
a man! why a man's a man! The world couldn't
do without men; they build railroads, and
carry on great enterprises. But the women—
all they have to do is to mind the house and
be the mothers of men."
	A look of unutterable scorn, and as the in-
furiated woman departed, the final knell came,
"The mothers of men!"—looking the shrink-
ing individual from-head to foot—his narrow
soul blinking through his half shut eyes—
"what a mother you must have had!"
	And watching the faces of men, how often
are we impressed with the truth of these
words. In some the image of God—truth,
purity, mercy, justice, love, glorify them into
more than human (what a blessed mother was
theirs!); in others the image defaced by lines
of sin, selfishness and low desires. ( God pity
your mothers, poor men, for ye are legoin!)
	So we cannot be far from the truth when we
say the first right of every man is a good
mother; and as the choice of mothers depends
on the men, we add most emphatically, a good
father too. "Oh, that's an old story, we al-
ways have heard that." Old! certainly, but
none the less true: and so a rule that is only in
the primary books of the first series of the vol-
umes of human life—the rule of three. For if
two uncongenial souls can afford to battle out-
alone their miseable rexistence, choosing pan
demonium instead of paradise, the world can-
not afford for them to cast another being like
themselves—an Esau from his birth—into its
schools, its streets and its business.
	The very idea of a baby in a home suggests
a welcome, a place, loving care of both father
and mother, intelligent understanding of its
physical needs, and skill to develop its mind,
leading it always towards the good. It also
suggests plenty of bread and butter, fresh air,
sunshine, and common sense.
	Men who would not expect to gather
"grapes of brambles" will wonder why their
children are not miracles of beauty and genius,
when they marry women of small mental cali-
bre, poor creatures with no thought above the
dressing of their bodies or the obeying of the
dictates of fashion; they will wonder why their
children are peevish and puny, when their
mothers are always "under the Doctor's care,"
miserable dyspeptics, despondent and morose;
and wonder of all wonders, they are surprised if

[Column 2]

their little ones show selfishness, meanness, re-
taliation, when they themselves kept the moth-
er a very beggar upon their bounty, or by
carelessness and neglect sowed the seeds of this
bitter harvest.
	To many men this first best right has been
denied, and many a one because of the lack,
battles all his life with the unseen foes of con-
torted or misdirected impulses. Better even a
mother with a weak body, than one with a
weak mind and cringing soul, afraid of her
husband, afraid of life, and afraid of death.
	Many a man toils unceasingly to give his
children worldly possessions, when the best
heritage he could give them would be himself;
the love and care that binds a house together
and keeps its faith with God; that with un-
tiring patience and sweetness gives to each
child its best birthright—a good mother.
—Women at Work.		E. T. H.


Dr. Mary Safford, sister of ex-Governor
Safford of Arizona, has taken two hundred
acres of land near Tarpew, Florida, where she
intends to plant a colony. She has an idea of
establishing a Sanitarium in that colony to
which invalids will likely be attracted from all
parts of the States. Dr. Safford is an energet-
ic, shrewd, and brilliant woman, highly cul-
tured and exceedingly able in her profession.
She has traveled extensiveiy in foreign lands,
also among other places, and visited Utah, when
we had the pleasure of meeting and conversing
with her. Her views upon the woman ques-
tion are broad in the extreme and she intends
putting them in practice, it seems, by founding
a colony. She has similar ideas in this matter
to Mrs. Martha Coray (now deceased) pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT several
years ago.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.	C.	M.	I.
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
			IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
				MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
		We carry a larger  more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
		WW. JENNINGS, Supt.
	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Buildings; also HOME MADE
	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.
	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
					HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
				CALL AND EXAMINE
	Spring and Summer Goods.
	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
	Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
		of the Desert National Bank, and half a 
			block north, west side of the street.
			SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
		OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
KNITTING FACTORY,
	On 1st W. St., Bot. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
	Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
		etc. Family Knitting done Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
	19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D. 
		OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'8 BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
		Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence
		Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
					in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
		FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
			RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
			And an elegant assortment of
		DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
		ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
		Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
					and 4th East Streets.
	Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
				OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the 
		NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
		Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.
	HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
				WALL PAPER,
  CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQU NS
		AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 808, Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1883.	No. 23.


"LOVE PREVAILS OVER ALL"

In the fresh bloom of the apple tree,
	Robins sing merry this morn;
My hear is as happy as theirs can be,
	For love to me is just born.

The skies bend down with tenderest blue
	More golden seem the hours;
All nature takes a brighter hue,
	Deeper fragrance the flowers.

The rippling brook, and the babbling rill,
	Whisper tales of love to me.
the dashing waves bear the same sweet song,
	From ocean, or deep blue sea.

The voice of bird, and the flower's bloom,
	Mystic rustling of the pines
Breathes music, glad with my heart in tune,
	As I kneel at love's pure shrine.

The meadow is donning brightest robes,
	And down in the earth's dark mould,
Numberless agents, busy at work,
	Are producing green and gold.

Fairies are spinning gossamer threads.
	Weaving strange fabrics of art;
Love, a palace is rearing instead,
	Down in the depths of my heart.

The world is lovelier, fairer far,
	Than ever to me before;
Since in my heart has risen love's star,
	Why need I on earth crave more?

L. M. H.


PHANTASMAGORIA.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

"Illusion is the magic of real life."

Phantoms of happiness! phantoms of joy!
Phantoms of bliss without any alloy!
Phantoms alluring by day and by night!
Phantoms that bring me incessant delight!

Phantoms attending long years of my life;
Phantoms unfading through sorrow or strife,
That cast o'er my senses a mystical veil,
And through it is whispered a magical tale.

Phantoms unfading where'er I may be;
Phantoms unfading through all I may see;
If I climb the steep mountains they're close to my side,
And in the sweet valley most faithful to glide.

At midnight, when sleep has forsaken the eye,
Their presence I feel is endearingly nigh.
When I gaze on the stars they will surely be there,
And in mystical language their mission declare.

Strange that such phantoms, impalpable, sweet,
Should render life's pleasures so vastly complete.
Strange that they fade not, though life's in decline,
But as years roll along they the brighter doth shine.

Strange that young life never gave me this joy;
Strange that they never bring any alloy!
Strange that I know on this earth they will be
Immortal—beyond I'm not able to see.

Yet oft in my dreams of the future, I trace
Among the bright myriads some form or some face
That once I'd a glimpse of while dwelling on earth,
And in those brief moments gave mystical birth

To thoughts and ideas, both of heart and of brain,
Gave music as though in Æolian strain;
And as music sounds sweet from a bark on the sea,
So sweet on my ear were these strains unto me.

Strange are the mysteries that girdle our life;
Strange are the phantoms with which it is rife!
Strange are the whisp'rings that language ne'er tells,
That seem to emerge from the soul's deepest cells!


And these voices so subtle breathe soft on the ear,
Breathe into the heart with their heavenly cheer;
Breathe into the soul till it seems not of earth,
And the brain by inhaling aquires a new birth.

And we rise from the feast, as refreshed with new wine;
We go forth, and the earth in new beauties doth shine,
Our soul feels elastic—too light to retain
A foot hold on earth, or with earth to remain!

My Father! My God! these are whisp'rings of Thee!
Though of earth, I can feel—though blind—I can see.
In the phantoms I've noted, Thy hand I can trace,
Filling up the dark corners with beauty and grace.

And oh! may these phantoms forever remain,
Undimmed, and unclouded on heart, or on brain,
Till the glory of Heaven bursts full on my view,
And to earth and its magnates I waft and adieu.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	As soon as we divorce love from the occupa-
tions of life, we find that labor degenerates
into drudgery.—Whipple.

	The grave is a very small hillock, but we
can see farther from it, when standing on it,
than from the highest mountain in all the 
world.—Tholuck.

	Horace Mann once said, "if temperance
prevail education can prevail;" and Superin-
tendent Philbrick said, "the rum-shops are the
antagonists of the public schools."

	It is proposed to have ready for the 10th of
November next, the four-hundredth anniver-
sary of the birth of Martin Luther, a colossal
bronze statue of the great reformer, to be
placed in front of the Memorial Lutheran
Church in Washington.

	If women could vote in Illinois, would Con-
gressman Hitt have dared to present a resolu-
tion to difranchise the women of Utah and
Wyoming? For a fair answer to this let Mr. Hitt
move to disfranchise the negroes, the Irishmen,
Germans or some other class in some part of the
enfranchised kingdom, and see how long it
would take to drop his head into the political
wastebasket.—Ex.

	THE TRAFFIC IN VOTES.—In one of the
larger manufacturing towns of Rhode Island
is a clique of voters called the "Rounders,"
who are in the habit of watching the polls at
elections, and just at the critical moment de-
posit their votes for the party offering the
highest bid, thus often turning the scales. At
present it is reported that they are building
somewhat on the Sprague boom, and some of
them have said they expect to command twen-
ty five dollars a piece for their ballot; it has
been reported in various papers that they stand
one hundred and fifty strong in the town.
Wonder if there are one hundred and fifty
women in that place who would sell their
birthright for a mess of pottage?—Ex.


SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
	FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.
			BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	In our last article we mentioned the circum-
stance of an Italian brother making an offering
of all his money to the Trustee in trust to carry
on the work on the Temple.  Previous to this
the work was almost completely at a stand still
for want of means, and President Young had
urged the brethren to have faith and go on
and the Lord would provide means. On the
day when Brother Toronto laid down his
money the brethren were to meet in Council
and consider the subject of means.  President
Young walked into the council with the gold
in his pocket, when they were debating the
question of giving up the work, and he said,
"Brethren, will you go on with the work and
trust in the Lord?"  And they were doubtful.
When President Young scattered the gold
over the room the brethren were as much as-
tonished as men could possibly be.  Is not this
a proof that the Lord provides means to carry
on His work?  Brother Toronto has since ac-
cumulated means and raised a family, been to
Italy and Sicily, and in his native land,
accomplished a good work.
	In the month of July, 1845, a large caravan
came to our city.  This was a rarity in that
part of the country, and something that I had
never seen, though I remember of one passing
our house when we were living in Mendon,
State of New York, just previous to our leav-
ing there.  I was then between four and five
years old, and I teased my ma, and cried be-
cause she would not let me go with my brother
William and others to see it.  She told me
that I was too little and I would have plenty of
chances when I got older.  I never heard of
another till about a year after we came to 
Nauvoo. Then there was an opportunity for
me to go, as William (who was living with Dr.
F. G. Williams, at Upper Commerce) came to
take me to one, but found me sick with a fresh
attack of ague, and quite delirious to all around
me, so that I knew nothing of it till it was
over.  But now there seemed nothing in the
way to prevent my seeing a circus.  I was just
putting on a white dress, I remember, as the
caravan passed our house, the day being ex-
tremly warm but otherwise it was very pleasant.
My youthful anticipations were at their height,
but alas for our earthly hopes, I seemed
doomed to disappointment, as they had no
more than spread their canvas before a sudden
wind storm came and blew it to the ground,
and the rain come down in torrents, so that
they could not put it up again, and came very
near losing some of their animals.  So I had to
wait till I was considerably older before my
chances came to witness the circus, as we left
the next February for the west, and I never
again had this privilege till some years after
we came to Salt Lake; and by that time my en-
thusiasm had considerably moderated,  and I
have long since became satiated with them.
	After the storm was over,  I accompanied
father and others to see the animals, but the
change in the weather obliged us to dress in
thick clothing, and even mantles and overcoats
were neceseary.  Thus we find life in one of dis-
appointed hopes, till we have learned to res-
train ourselves and become moderate in all
things--then peace and pleasure is the natural
result.  The following interesting items I
gather from my father's journal.  "August 4th,
which was Sunday," he says, "Presidnet B.
Young preached in the forenoon,  warned
the Saints to beware  we would do well to-day to
accept and profit by the same.
	"Monday, 5th," he says, "our county elec-
tion was held.  Had a bee the same day to
get wood for the Nauvoo House;  had one


<jl rlostjnen.="" he="" wished="" to="" have="" council="" with'="" the="" twclve,="" so="" we="" went="" his="" camp="" on="" -="" hill.="" read="" us="" orders,="" which="" hq="" had.="" received="" from="" gov-="" ernor;="" after="" they="" searched="" temple,="" masonic="" hall,="" and="" lkauvoo="" barn,="" then="" down="" river="" .camp.="" twelve="" bishops="" met="" fit="" w="" eichafds’fbr-prayer="" council.="" asked="" th6="" lord="" frustrate="" designs="" of="" ourenemies="" .and="" tojjlirid="" iheir="" eyes,="" cause="" .the="" troops="" leave="" oui;="" pity.="" held="" ip="" tbe="" evening="" it="" john’aylor's.="" wrote="" another="" ;ptopopiti6n="" to'="" .peqpl'of="" state,="" that="" we.="" were-going="" away-io.c6me="" jturchase="" our="" lands="" houses="" would="" eave.”="" general="" hardin="" judge="" douglas="" ifcdougal,="" col.="" 'warren,="" met;="" them="" next="" day="" jn="" coun-="" cil="" at'="" .john="" taylor’s.="" father="" wrote,="" “after="" much="" conversation="" wq="" adjopieabqut="" eleven="" o’clock.="" tempieth.them="" their="" army.="" fill="" over="" temple.="" took="" dinner="" brother="" taylor’s.-="" in="" part="" cof="" day'with="" same="" men..="" i="" discovered="" a="" spiritin'them="" not="" to.do="" for="" us.="" back="" at="" foiin.or.fivp="" o’-cjock.="" again="" evening,;brother="" andrew="" perkins)="" dr.="" colstbn',came="" carthage,="" said="" there="" were="" three="" huridred="" :of="" mob.-="" “oct.="" 1st.="" engaged="" '="" find="" yisiting="" sipk.="" oct,="" 2nd...="" others="" .council="" with="" hardin’s="" staff-="" his,="" fegiinent,="" left="" early="" morning,="" the;="" ‘left,="" about="" o’clock="" -for="" 'carthage="" b.="" voung="" myself="" t6="" visit="" sick.="" wpnt="" ajso="" ';theywere'lanng.r="" lower="" floor="" con-="" fexencq.c="" mentions,="" attending="" funeral="" of;="" bister="" daniel="" spencer,="" thence="" went-ip="" w.="" eichards’="" cquncil="" prayer;1'jjsaysgreatunion.preyailed.”="" thesq-historical="" items="" will="" be="" mpq="" than="" usual="" tplefest="" this="" people="" thet="" present="" periodhand="" ihey="" ,are="" calculated="" instil="" into="" "them="" new="" faith="" determination="" persevere="" defence="" sacred="" principle.of="" -liberty,="" still="" enjoy="" (thank="" god)="" spite="" every="" effort="" has="" been="" made="" by="" foes,="" who="" seem="" to.="" forgotten="" persecution="" intolerance="" beget="" an="" increase,="" union,="" and.the.same="" spirit="" love="" liberty="" thrills="" bosoms,="" darkest="" hour="" roused="" country="" action,="" inspired="" hearts="" appoint="" commander-="" in-chief,="" george="" washington,="" was="" filled="" power="" tf="" office,="" as;="" ftias="" brigham="" young,="" the.niost="" critical="" moment="" tide="" affair="" ia="" nauvoo;="" washington="" wm="" often="" led="" retire="" alone="" camp,="" secret="" prayer="" god="" israel,="" whom="" trust,="" only="" relieve="" ottr="" burdened="" heart,="" but="" gain="" divine="" assist-="" ance="" awful="" conflict.'="" placed="" similar="" condition,="" likely="" scattered="" as="" sheep="" without="" shepherda="" had="" chosen="" men="" to--lead-="" id="" victory.="" where="" if="" united,="" no="" other="" ;but="" human!="" .aid;="" fo="" look="" to,="" or="" interfere="" behalf,;="" .could="" never="" hate="" survived.through="" thosevparly="" beenes="" trial="" tribulation,="" much-="" less="" carried="" out="" great;revelatiqns="" commands="" of.="" al-="" mighty.="" ;knqwas.we.u.rilthey="" do="" to-="" necessity="" humilityifind;="" with-="" ceasing,="" -in="" ceverything.they="" mutt="" give="" thanks,="" knowing="" that.="" “he.="" who.="" is.="" faithful="" shall="" overcome="" all="" things,="" and.shall="" lifted="" up="" last="" day.”="" enow="" “three="" fold="" cord="" is="" not.="" quickly="" .broken,="" wisdom="" strengtheneth="" wise="" more="" ten="" .mighty="" men.”="" haf="" cxfimples,="" enough="" show="" what="" .persecution,="" jo,="" find,="" hai="" been,="" and'="" ever="" wilj="" effqcfed,by="" outside="" re-="" sure,="" practice="" foes="" determined="" keep="" up.="" no-where="" can="" thejr1="" such="" people,="" whose="" liyeand="" works="" nearly="" resemble="" those="" ancient="" followers="" poor="" despised="" nazarene,="" shown="" pheir="" works,="" alike="" willing-="" ness="" make="" sacrifice="" hbme,="" friends,="" ini="" aft="" worldly="" prospects="" (as="" thousands="" done)="" walue="" rest,="" good="" name.="" for'="" fifty="" years="" looked="" down1="" ipon,="" persecuted,="" driven="" wronged,="" nothing="" religion,="" cling="" defiance="" nation="" threatening="" do,="" why="" fear="" quake="" before="" them?="" because="" know="" bedeemer="" liveth)="" .we="" &="" posi-="" tive="" assurance="" support="" he#?="" humble="" united.="" wo="" are="" aware="" mormons”="" yet="" become="" should="" be.="" many="" among="" like="" dead="" branches—are.="" neither="" one="" thing="" nor="" other;="" says="" hei="" wants="" either="" hot="" cold,="" thelukerwarimhe="" “spew="" his-="" mouth.”="" condition="" mix="" babylon="" meek="" with.="" little="" interference="" them,="" rather="" iet="" upon="" watch="" tower,="" .signs="" .th="" .times="" fore-shadow="" ct="" inigbty="" changes="" whtch="" foretold="" theprophets,="" modem;="" iremember,="" fes,="" dd="" hundreds="" 'of="" 'this:="" how="" solemnity="" theefl="" things="" rested="" iriy="" fatherfbryears="" previous="" death?="" .be="" foresaw,="" iu4be="" vision="" mind,="" scenss-whea="" .’the="" judg-="" ments="" an.="" offended="" would-be="" poured="" measure="" inh'abitfints="" earth,="" he;="" beheld="" the;(fatq,="" thqse="" ease="" in.ziqn;.="" .and.="" ei="" wiuj="" iake-aothing="" lesi="" his,scourging="" hapd:.="" to;="" wake.them="" slumber.="" therefore,="" .our="" present,="" troubles="" may="" viewed="" light="" god-send,="" bless-="" ing="" disguise,="" like,="" tliq.t.fo="" wae="" pary="" off="" tbq.="" dross,="" unite="" saints="" closely="" eyer="" been.="" none="" .others="" cap="" heirs="" ourelder="" brother,="" celestial="" eter-="" nal="" gloryj="" ig,="" airaiting,.="" ml-who="" are,="" willing="" take="" up'and="" hear="" cross.="" cm="" safely="" outcome="" him="" stands="" helm;hut;="" let="" us;see="" insids="" thd="" sliip,="" while="" being="" tossed="" these="" rough="" billows,="" passing="" through="" narrow="" places,="" all'="" must="" reaoh="" eleliial="" inlierikince="" tqwcontinued.="" m<="" div="">[Column 1]

hundred and fifty teams." By the 20th, it
seems, they had got eight courses on two sides
of the Nauvoo House. But Satan became
more and more enraged as he saw the work of
God continuing to progress, and his power was
arrayed against the Saints, and on the 15th of
September, while my father and others of
his brethren were in council, at Brother
Joseph Kingsbury's, two sheriffs came after
the following men: B. Young, H. C. Kimball,
P. P. Pratt, G. A. Smith, John Taylor, W.
Richards, G. Miller, John Karns, O. Pratt, O.
Hyde, and John Page. These men said they
were requested not to serve a writ on William
Smith. They did not find any of them and soon
left the city.
	16th, father met with his brethren to consult
about what measures to enter into, and con-
cluded to stop the work on the Nauvoo House.
Adjourned at twelve o'clock, and met again at
two. "We had not been in more than ten
minutes," father says, "before J. B. Backenstoss,
a sheriff and lawyer, not a Mormon, and Porter
Rockwell came in. Learned that a mob rushed
upon them suddenly and chased them from
Warsaw. In the struggle to get away from
the mob, Porter Rockwell shot one man, and
Backenstoss one or two more." Orders were
sent to the precinct by the sheriff for them to
be in readiness. "About ten in the evening
Col. Markham went to Carthage, with fifty
men." "My Father in Heaven, wilt thou help
thy people and deliver us from our enemies, as
thou art our Father and our God." He wrote
that on the evening of the 18th several com-
panies went out to take prisoners; Bro. Red-
field came in at the same time with tidings
from Lima. On the 19th, the Twelve were in
council most of the day at Bishop Miller's.
Father mentions one young man by the name of
Tippen, being shot by accident in the camp.
He says, "Visited the camp about ten o'clock.
Tippen died about that time as we were going 
to see him."
	"20th, Saturday. Rose early in the morn-
ing, went to the council room. Two hun-
dred men went in wagons to meet Backen-
stoss at the junction. Tippen was buried;
had a short discourse by B. Young and my-
self on the public square. Most of the army
came home."
	"Monday, 22nd, held council with a com-
mittee from McDonough County, at John
Taylor's. Chose three men to meet them on
Tuesday at Mc-Comb, as follows. A. Babbit,
Bedell and Wells."
	"Tuesday, 23rd. The day pleasant. Much
rumor from Camp Creek, spent most of the
day in council, * * receiving letters from
different parts of the country. Writs out for
twelve or thirteen men,"
	"Wednesday, 24th. All the Twelve and
about thirty others went to Carthage to give
ourselves up for trial. Went before Squire
Barns and were dismissed. We went to see
the jail where Joseph and Hyrum were killed.
Most of the people had left the place; got
home about sunset and met a committee from
Quincy. Met in council at John Taylor's.
Wrote a proposition to the mob; broke up at
one o'clock in the morning."
	Friday, 26th, father speaks of attending
council at Brother Taylor's, the same day at
one o'clock, he says, met for prayer and council
at W. Richards', from thence went into the 
public square, and saw one hundred families
come in from Camp Creek and other places.
B. Young spoke to them, then we went and
laid hands upon the sick, eighteen of them."
	Saturday, he mentions being again in coun-
cil, then went with General Charles Rich to
visit the sick. At three in the afternoon he
and brethren went to the mansion. He says,
"Brother Rose came in with news from
Beardstown. He saw General Hardin with
two hundred and fifty men on his way to

[Column 2]

our city. From thence we went to the tem-
ple, then to see the troops on the square.
My health being poor, went home early."
	"Sunday, 28th, being rainy, few met at
the stand. B. Young spoke a few words, by
counsel, to get in their grain and other 
things. Went to see the sick, Sister Woolley 
and others. * * Met in Council. Bedell
got back from Springfield. The news good
from the Governor Backenstoss went to 
Carthage to meet General Hardin. The
tide of the mob is low at this time. * *
William Clayton came in with a proclama-
tion from General Hardin, and a letter.
He is now in Carthage with his troops. Dr.
Colston came in."
	"29th. At nine o'clock met in council at
Daniel Spencer's. Five Lamanites were pres-
ent. Adjourned at twelve, met at one for
prayer and council, at W. Richards'. * * Bro.
Bent and Isaac Morley met with us to present
the names of those to go west. In the evening
went down to the river. B. Young baptized
three red men, and confirmed them at the
water's edge."
	"30th. The council met at the Seventies
Hall, adjourned at twelve o'clock, as General
Hardin had come into town with his posse to
search for property and lost men. He wished
to have council with the Twelve, so we went to
his camp on the hill. He read to us his
orders, which he had received from the Gov-
ernor; after which they searched the Temple,
Masonic Hall, and the Nauvoo Barn, then
went down the river to camp. The Twelve
and Bishops met at W. Richards' for prayer
and council. We asked the Lord to frustrate
the designs of our enemies and to blind their
eyes, and cause the troops to leave our city.
Held council in the evening at John Taylor's.
Wrote another proposition to people of the
State, that we were going away—to come and
purchase our lands and houses and we would
leave."
	General Hardin, Judge Douglas McDougal,
and Col. Warren met them next day in coun-
cil at John Taylor's. Father wrote, "After
much conversation we adjourned about eleven
o'clock. Went to the Temple with them and
their army. They went all over the Temple.
Took dinner at Brother Taylor's. Me in
council in the after part of the day, with the
same men. I discovered a spirit in them not
to do much for us. Went back to their camp
at four or five o'clock. We met again in the
evening, Brother Andrew Perkins, and Dr.
Colston came in from Carthage, said there were
three hundred of the mob.
	"Oct. 1st. Engaged in council	* * and
visiting the sick. Oct. 2nd. The Twelve and 
others met in council with General Hardin's 
staff. His regiment left early in the morning, 
and the General left about eleven o'clock for 
Carthage. Then B. Young and myself went 
to visit the sick. Went also to the Temple.
They were laying the lower floor for the con-
ference." The same day he mentions attending
the funeral of Sister Daniel Spencer, and from
thence went to W. Richards' for council and
prayer. Says, "Great union prevailed."
	These historical items will be of more than
usual interest to this people at the present
period and they are calculated to instil into
them new faith and determination to perservere
in defence of the sacred principle of liberty,
which we still enjoy (thank God) in spite of
every effort that has been made by our foes,
who seem to have forgotten that persecution
and intolerance beget an increase of union,
and the same spirit and love of liberty thrills
our bosoms, which at the darkest hour roused
our country to action, and inspired the hearts
of the people to appoint for their commander-
in-chief, George Washington, and he was
filled with the spirit and power of his office,
the same as was Brigham Young at the most

[Column 3]

critical moment in the tide of our affairs in
Nauvoo; and we read that Washington was
often led to retire alone from camp, and bow
in secret prayer to that same God of Israel, in
whom we trust, not only to relieve his over-
burdened heart, but to gain His divine assist-
ance in that awful conflict. This people were
placed in a similar condition, and likely to be
scattered as sheep without a shepherd, had they
not chosen to be led by men who were inspired
by a divine power to lead them to victory.
Where if they had not been united, and had
had no other but human aid to look to, or to
interfere in their behalf, they could never have
survived through those early scenes of trial
and tribulation, much less to have carried out
the great revelations and commands of the Al-
mighty. But they knew as well as they do to-
day the necessity of humility and prayer with-
out ceasing, and that in everything they must
give thanks, knowing that "he who is faithful
shall overcome all things, and shall be lifted
up at the last day." We know that a "three 
fold cord is not quickly broken, and wisdom
strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty
men." We have had examples enough to
show what persecution will do, and what has
been, and ever will be effected by outside pres-
sure, a practice which our foes seem determined
to keep up. No-where can they find another
such a people, whose lives and works so nearly
resemble those of the ancient followers of the
poor and despised Nazarene, who have shown
their faith by their works, and a like willing-
ness to make sacrifice of home, friends, and
all their worldly prospects (as thousands have
done) and what is of more value than all the
rest, their good name. For the last fifty years
we have been looked down upon, persecuted,
driven about and wronged, for nothing only
our religion, and still we cling to it in defiance
of all that this nation is threatening to do, and
why is it that they do not cause us to fear
and quake before them? Because we know that
our Redeemer liveth, and we still have a posi-
tive assurance of divine support if we keep
humble and united. We are aware that the 
"Mormons" as a people, have not yet become
all that they should be. Many among us are
like dead branches—are neither one thing nor
the other; and the Lord says He wants us to be
either hot or cold, for the luke-warm He would
"spew out of His mouth." If we were all in
that condition and would mix in with Babylon
we would meet with but little interference
from them, but rather let us be upon the watch
tower, for the signs of the times fore-shadow
great and mighty changes which have been
long foretold by the prophets, ancient and
modern; I remember, yes, and so do hundreds
of this people, how the solemnity of these
things rested upon my father for years previous
to his death; because he foresaw, in the vision
of his mind, the awful scenes when the judg-
ments of an offended God would be poured out
without measure upon the inhabitants of the
earth, and he beheld the fate of those who are
at ease in Zion; and it will take nothing less
than His scourging hand to wake them from
their slumber.
	Therefore, our present troubles may be
viewed in the light of a God-send, or a bless-
ing in disguise, like all the rest, for it will wake
up many and carry off the dross, and unite
His Saints more closely than they have ever
been. And none others can become heirs with
our elder Brother, to that celestial and eter-
nal glory that is awaiting all who are willing
to take up and bear their cross. Such can
safely leave the outcome to Him who stands
at the helm; but let us see that we keep inside
of the good ship, while being tossed over these
rough billows, or passing through the narrow
places, which all must do before we can ever
reach our eternal inheritance.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE

TO EMILY SCOTT AND L. M . HEMLINGS
I sang alone so hushed and low,
Fearing o'en my own voice to hear,
And overjoyed by kindly words
	From those around me, true and dear,
And little thought or listened where
The echoes died upon the air.

As pebbles cast in fountain still
	Make wid'ning circles on its breast,
Even so the echoes wandered on,
Reached north and south, far east and west,
And welcome found in many a place
Where they have never known my face.

And little dreamed I all the while,
How by the task in silence wrought,
That answering to my trembling heart
	Should loving messages be brought
To lighten all the coming days
With the soul's bright, life-cheering rays,

Sing on, my heart, and bear to those
	Returning words of gratitude, 
And bear this wish--that all may find
	In house of prayer and solitude,
The source that made this gift my own,
And learn the music round His throne.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. 
Salt Lake City, April 20th, 1883


HELEN AND VIRGINIA

[THIRD CHAPTER.]

	Not lack of love around her drew
Her isolation and restraint,
For e'en  the meanest weeds may wear
Their grace of blossoms fair to view.
So too, the human heart may bear
The soul-flower love, impure or true.

Oft like the oleander's bloom
Of richest dye, or purest white,
That fascinate the gazer's eye
And sways the sense with perfumed breath;
Yet taste its petals—all delight
Is lost in agony and death.

Alas, that hearts to their own kind
May poison treachery extend!
And that the helpless, trusting walk
Beside the strong and may not know
If those on whom their hopes depend
Shall prove their soul's good friend or foe

And her still face would oft incite
In hearts of these dark birds of prey
A purpose swift, and strong and deep
To know her and win assuring smile;
With power greater than e'er they
Had known by artifice and guile.

And such, unnoticed or repelled,
Turn in still wrath to wreak their power—
"What power have such?"  O, ask of these
Who toil for bread day after day,
How false, brief words, in one short hour,
May snatch a girl's fair name away

And love, though pure, may not be right
To have and hold against God's laws;
And looking over all the world
We find a mystery solved herein—
A broken law the primal cause
Of human misery and sin.

When flattery and wealth are vain
The lonely toiler to allure,
A stronger shaft the tempter brings;
Two souls that else were all complete,
Meet the world's verdict stern and sure,
And joy or honor must retreat.

And thus defrauded the soul's right,
The laws man made, his spirit weighs;
The scales swing all unevenly,
His eyes the written law behold,
And still his spirit swing and sways
Twixt law of man and law of soul.

Amid these 'wild'ring paths of life
Virginia walked as one who knew
A time would come when all might find
Truth, Justice and the way of right;
And ever with this faith in view
Kept her pure soul's lamp filled and bright.


Yet often o'er the silken robes
	Her shining needle wrought upon,
Her face drooped lower, and the tears
	Rose in mute pity for the lot
Of the sad wearer, who had won
	Fame, and a heart where love was not.

Far from her own loved Italy,
The child of song had followed him
O'er paths that reached forever on;
	The vales of peace lay far below,
The phantom hope, was faint and dim,
And still beyond o'er wastes of snow.

And yet night after night she sand,
She sang for love, she sang for gold,
That she might win by lavish gift
	Wrought from her aching heart, the love
That once was found, and now was cold;
	Her voice rang all applause above.

For her, as o'er her sleeping babe
	Honora's gaze in sadness bent,
Virginia's spirit rose in prayer,
Her voice bore strength and tenderness,
As one with gift by heaven lent,
To serve, protect her and to bless.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
﻿	REFLECTIONS ON PROPHECY

	In reading our Sabbath School lesson this
morning, (the fourth Chapter of Daniel) I
could not help being forcibly struck with the
similarity of the position of King Nebuchad-
nezzar, and that of the people of this nation,
of which we are a part.  It seems that this
same king had had many testimonies that
there was a God in heaven, who was able to
deliver those who trusted in Him; he had wit-
nessed the deliverance of the three Hebrew
children from the fiery furnace without even
the smell of fire upon their garments.  And
when the Lord sent a dream to him, and Dan-
iel was called to show him the interpretation
thereof, and it was made known to him that
he should be driven out from the midst of men,
and dwell with the beasts of the field until he
should know that the Most High ruled in the
kingdoms of men, and giveth it to whomsoever
He will; and Daniel said to the king, O,
King, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee
and break off thy sins by righteousness, and
thine iniquities by showing mercy to the poor,
if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquility.
Still after this the king walked in his palace
twelve months; and he spake and said, "Is not
this great Babylon that I have built for the
house of the kingdom, by the might of my
power, and for the honor of my majesty."
While the word was in the king's mouth, there
fell a voice from heaven, saying, "O King
Nebuchednezzar, to thee it is spoken, the king-
dom is departed from thee."  The same hour
was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchednezzar,
he was an outcast from among men, until the
time had been fulfilled that Daniel had pre-
dicted, and his reason returned unto him, and
he blessed the Most High, and praised and
honored him that liveth forever, whose domin-
ion is an everlasting dominion, and His king-
dom from generation to generation.
	And all the inhabitants of the earth are re-
puted as nothing, and He doeth according to
his will in the army of heaven, and among the
inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay His
hand, or say unto Him, what doest thou?  And
those that walk in pride he is able to abase.
To me there seems a similarity in the position
of King Nebuchednezzar and the people of
this nation in which we live; they say, "Behold,
we are fifty millions of people, and how can a
people so few in numbers expect to withstand
the pressure brought upon them?"  Our an-
swer to them is:  The God of the Prophet
Daniel still lives, and He is our God, and we
are His people; and if this nation does not re-
pent and cease to fight against His kingdom,
which He has decreed shall be established upon

			[Column 2]
the earth for the last time, no more to be
thrown down; they will find to their sorrow
and everlasting shame that "Those that walk
in pride He is able to abase."  Oh!  why is it
they will not repent of their sins, and turn
unto the true and living God, who loves all
His children, even the workmanship of His
hands, and is merciful and kind.  They call us
(the women of Utah) slaves!  we were free until
they began to make laws against us.  The only
oppression we feel comes from them.  May
heaven save me from such deliverance as they
propose to give us.  Excuse me, I would
sooner live and die encircled by the chains
which they talk so much about, honored and
respected by some of the "noblest works of
God,"  honest men and women, and beloved
and cared for by God himself, than turn traitor
to God and my conscience, and deny the
knowledge that He has given me.  Our deliver-
ance will come soon.  The darkest hour is just
before the dawn.  We need only to put our
trust in Him, who is able to save, and who
holdeth the destinies of all men and all nations
in His hands, who created the earth and all
that dwelleth upon it, and who setteth up
kingdoms, and who pulleth them down, and
who heareth even the ravens when they cry.
							RUTH.
	October 29th, 1882.


A PLEASANT PARTY. 

	On the second of April the Young Ladies'
Improvement Association of Glenwood ar-
ranged a party in honor of the birthday of
Sister Lucy Heppler. She has been very
energetic in assisting the young ladies in this
place in temporal as well as spiritual things.
She has taught us many varieties of ornamen-
tal, fancy needle work, which has enabled us
to get means in our Association, and also to
adorn our homes with the work of our own
hands. Our President, Rozina Powell, with
her second Counselor, conducted Sister Hep-
pler to the Relief Society House (which has
just been completed.)  On entering the room
she was greeted by the young ladies singing,
"Sweet hour of prayer." She was then pre-
sented with a beautiful hair wreath made by
the girls, each member making a flower of her
own hair, as a token of love and esteem. Sis-
ter Heppler, in a few words, thanked the Asso-
ciation for the present and exhorted them to
continue to be as united as they were at the
present time; said that she could not express
her feelings as she wished, as she was so over-
come with the surprise of the party. Brother
Heppler spoke for a short time, encouraging
the young ladies to continue in well doing.
We then all partook of a good supper, twenty-
eight were seated around the table; after sup-
per a few songs were sung. Everything passed
off harmoniously. In the evening there was a
conjoint session of the Y. M. and Y. L. I. As-
sociations, making in all a very pleasant time.
								TINIA.
	Glenwood, Sevier Co., April 9th, 1883.


Things which never could have made a man
happy develop a power to make him strong.
Strength and not happiness, or rather only
that happiness which comes by strength, is the
end of human living. And with that test and
standard the best order and beauty reappears.
—Phillips Brooks.

	Whenever the truth of God—to whom all
sovereignty, majesty, and power belong—and
the commandment of men come in conflict, we
must say, as the apostle said, "We ought
rather to obey God than man." And when
this is done, it must not be called disobedience
to superiors; but it is obedience to them,
because it is obedience to God, who is above
them.—Alexander Henderson, 1638.


180	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 1, 1883.


[Column 1]
LOVE OF NATURE.

	THE editorial columns of a paper are looked up-
on as being characteristic of the force and power
of the editor to give the public, some ideas of
the topics of the day in general terms, and pre-
sent them in a brief comprehensive and readable
style. Occasionally one may be inclined to in-
dulge in a strain not so prolific of news as of sen-
timent, and give expression to some special
taste in the field of literature. However, people
are always more or less disappointed in the news-
papers of the day, as they seldom can give just
the sort of thing each reader wants, and indeed
it is astonishingly rare to suit everybody, and
therefore an editor ought now and then to be ex-
cused, if he writes upon a theme which pleases
his own fancy.
	The Spring is the season for the indulgence of
poetic taste, so understood all the world over.
The awakening of nature from its long wintry
slumber, the bursting forth of leaf and bud, is
in itself not only wonderful, but delightful to all
admirers of creative or perpetuating power.
There are so many charming sights and sounds,
that one might be always occupied in their en-
joyment. The greatest writers of poetical sen-
timent have rejoiced in the beauties of Spring-
time. It inspires and cherishes a nearness to
nature's heart. The commonest flower of the
field or meadow, and even the dandelion posses-
ses a charm because of its early bloom; then
what shall we say of those so surpassingly love-
ly as to be famed far and wide for beauty and
fragrance? Flowers are a part of literature, so
closely are they associated in the mind with poe-
try and history. The lily, the rose, the sham-
rock, the blue bells and heather and other varie-
ties are so interwoven in poetry, music and his-
tory, as to make them of special interest, and
give them a prestige almost human, yet so gen-
tle in effect, touching the finest perceptions of
the soul, that they awaken only the most deli-
cate sensibilities.
	It has been remarked by standard authors,
that to love nature deeply and truly, one must
be born and raised in the country. Be this as it
may, the lanes, the orchards, the groves, the
broad fields and byways, outside the turmoil
and bustle of city precincts are the places where
one comes in actual contact with surroundings
that arouse the most agreeable sensations, and
the heart leaps out of its narrow depths into the
glowing regions of light and love.
	The birds form a pleasing part of the enjoy-
ment of Spring, the chattering and twittering,
the nesting, the musical notes echoing and re-
echoing, is a most charming element in the
faculty of happiness, and they convey to the
imaginative much more than the mere sound.

[Column 2]
One writer tells us they are simple lullabies, sooth-
int and tenderly caressing, and gently efface
the sad and awful impression which many other
sounds of wild things make upon us; such as
the screeching of owls and the croaking of ra-
vens, the wild cry of plovers, and similar birds.
Certainly bird songs lighten labor; the plowman
in the field often whistles to the tune of the
birds, and imitates their notes. Emotions are
awakened in a ramble through nature's haunts,
that otherwise might have lain dormant forever,
at least during the period of earthlife. One
drinks in more real beauty and feels more keen-
ly the intensity of sympathy between himself
and nature outside of humanity, than in any
other commingling or association. It is con-
sidered a pastime, but it is a real one, that gives
tone to the labor afterwards to be performed.
The voices of nature that are only perceptible
in a true sense to the poetical soul, the hum of
insects, the murmur of water, the sighing of
the long grass and reeds, the low subdued whist-
ling of the breeze, or the song of the trees, the
flutter of the silken leaves, and above these the
singing and melodious notes of the birds, the
lowing of cattle, the bleating of lambs' animal
and vegetable life all astir, and as it were, put-
ting forth fresh vigor, speak most forcibly to the
soul of man.
	There is no boundary to the imagination in
elaborating upon these subjects, and when
one has made his grandest effort the field is just
as broad, and the landscape just as prolific with
food for the poet's soul as though the songs had
never been written or set to music. There is no
need to mourn for the faculty of expressing that
which is beautiful, grand and glorious at once,
for there is an eternity stretching out ever far
away where the mind will be able to grasp
greater truths and give them golden touches,
and where the yearning for expression and de-
lineation of that which one feels but cannot
convey in language, music or painting, will
surely find its realization and fulfilment.
	Come away into the fields among the hills
when the daisies and lilies bloom in their fresh-
ness, while the early morning dew is glistening
in the petals of the lily bells. The lily of the
valley we find in its rare beauty as we "go a
Maying," and what is there sweeter or purer, or
that can call up dearer recollections? The poe-
try that has been handed down as history, says
"the poet, lay on the earth all through the sunny
days dreaming and doting in the flowers," and
the hero "knight sheathed in complete steel
crushed them under the hoofs of his war horse."
What a contrast, and what a lesson may be
drawn from it. But we were out for a ramble,
what thoughts, what memories are aroused, and
how soothing are the voices we hear all around.
The perfume of the apple blossoms is heavy in
the air, dainty pink flowers, so fragile they fall
apart if you breathe upon them; how the soft
winds scatter them over the clover and in at
the open windows. The groves are ringing
with melody, the merry songs of gladsome
birds, and the young saplings bend with the
weight of the feathered songsters as they sway
up and down with their loud, prolonged notes.
The rapture of the open air brings a happiness
that attracts to the infinite, the source, the
motor power that produces the germ of all these
forces of creation, and we are led to exclaim
"Great and wonderful are thy ways, O Lord,
and past finding out." And so we may revel
in the charms of nature and grow familiar with
flowers, and trees, and birds, and sunshine, and
moonlight, and still there is the same unuttera-
ble, intense longing to approach a higher degree
of attainment in all that is beautiful and exalt-
ing, which nothing but the immortal can ever
satisfy.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE have for sale in this office "The Alphabet
in Rhyme," on cards for children, one cent
each, also a song "The Word of Wisdom," pub-
lished on cards two cents each. These cards are
to help the Primary, and are so reasonable that
all the Associations can afford to purchase a sup-
ply. Orders from the country will be promptly
attended to.

	ON Wednesday, April 19th, the Primary As-
sociation of the Twelfth Ward held its annual
meeting, Mrs. Ellen Clawson presiding. Sisters
Eliza R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and other ladies
were present, also Bishop H. B. Clawson. The
minutes read by the Secretary, Miss Hardy,
were a very great credit both in the manner of
writing and reading. The yearly report was
very good. The programme was well selected.
Dialogue, Alice and Lucy Hardy; Song,
Ruby Clawson; Recitation, Edna Wells;
Recitation, Willie Evans; Questions and An-
swers by the members; Recitation, Roy Cun-
ningham; Song, Dex Pyper; Comic Recitation,
Bryant Wells; Essay, Minnie Clawson; Bible
Questions and Answers, by the Association;
Song, "I'll be a little Mormon;" Primer Ques-
tions and Answers; Song by the children, "Word
of Wisdom." Remarks were made by Sisters
Eliza R. S. Smith, E. B. and L. A. Wells, F. Y.
Thatcher and Bishop Clawson. The meeting was
exceedingly interesting, and well conducted.

	IT is to be hoped that the sisters will bear in
mind the proposition that has been made them
by Dr. Barney in regard to students and the op-
portunities before them for the study of medi-
cine, and use all necessary diligence to help
complete the number called for. By corres-
ponding with the Dr. she may be able to ar-
range matters so as to remove any apparent dif-
ficulty. We would like to see such an under-
taking succeed, for truly, there is a lack of effi-
cient, skillful help in cases of sickness. And the
offer that is made, with the facilities to carry it
out, cannot be equaled, and with the great
amount of interest that is taken in education,
that this one branch should not be neglected
and have only a minor place, but the subject of
physiology, health and hygiene should precede
all other branches, in order to prepare the
mind and the body for more active exercise in
other directions. Write to Dr. Barney, Box 555,
Salt Lake City, and get a complete understand-
ing if you are in doubt on any point in question
in regard to the proposition.

	A new edition of the "Correspondence of the
Palestine Tourists" has lately been issued, con-
taining the steel engravings of Pres. George A.
Smith and Apostle Lorenzo Snow. These are
excellent likenesses of the men they represent.
The book is a series of letters, written in 1872
and 1873, by George A. Smith, Lorenzo Snow,
Paul A. Shettler and Eliza R. Snow, most of
them while traveling in Europe, Asia and Af-
rica, and afterwards compiled by E. R. Snow,
very carefully, for the benefit of the reader.
They are true and interesting discriptions of
places and events worthy of note, during the
journey. This book ought to be in all our young
people's libraries, and is certainly an attractive
and useful compilation. Sister Eliza, determined
to place the book in the hands of the people, has
reduced the prices very materially, and now
offers the book for sale at two dollars for
leather and gilt binding, one dollar and a half
for plain leather, and one dollar and a quarter
bound in cloth. It is a volume of nearly four
hundred pages, and includes seventy-five letters;
it is in plain, clear type, which recommends
it to people in years. One can scarcely fail to be
charmed with these letters, containing such a


[Column 1]
vast deal of information of places in the old
world, of antiquities, museums, and art collec-
tions as well as the country which has become
hallowed ground because of its association. It
is written in a style that brings you directly,
among the people and scenes that are described
although historical in fact. To any one expect-
ing to travel over the ground, it would be very
valuable, and to those who remain at home a
useful and pleasing companion. The book is
very suitable for presentation as a prize or gift,
and ought to be widely circulated. For sale at
this office, and the DESERET NEWS.

	ON Friday, April 21st, the Primary Associa-
tion of the Thirteenth Ward held its fourth
annual meeting, Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, who has
had charge of the Association just one year,
presiding. In this connection we feel it only
just to say, Sister Wells has been very much
aided by her Counselor Miss Georgie Spencer,
who has been constant in attendance and effi-
cient in her labors, especially with the singing.
Bishop Attwood and Counselor Empey
were present also sisteres R. R. Grant,
B. W. Smith, Ellen C. Clawson, E. B.
Wells, and other ladies. The exercises were
good and well rendered, some in a very notice-
able manner. Programme: Address, Victor
Thornberg; Song, Wilhelmina Lardon, "Lost on
the Lady Elgin;" a wonderful execution for a
child four years old; Dailogue on fashion, Misses
Mortensen and Merril; Address, "Little Boy's
First Recitation," Carlos Badger; Song, "Whip-
poor-will," by four members, was very good in-
deed. Select reading, Orlie Childs, "Let us be
Saints;" Alphabet in rhyme, by five members;
Song, Annie Stromberg, "Scenes that are
brightest," this little songstress deserves recog-
nition and encouragement; Bible Questions
answered by members; Dialogue, "The
dream and its fulfilment;" Song, "The little
gray-bird," Lida Stromberg; Essay, Annie Strom-
berg, "Let us be useful;" Recitation, little Roy
Grant, "Butterflies;" Recitation, "Articles of
Faith," very well done, Adelaide Mortensen;
Organ solo, "Primary March," Orlie Childe; ex-
ceedingly well performed. Sister Susan String-
am was appointed as a Counselor to Sister Wells.
Remarks were made by Sisters Clawson, E. B.
Wells, and R, Attwood, Bishop Attwood and
Counselor Empey. Meeting was adjourned for
one year, and the regular appointment for the
next week was announced. After the close of
the meeting cake and oranges were served to
all in the room.

	ON Thursday, April 20th, an annual meeting
was held of the Primary Association of the
Twentieth Ward, commencing at one p.m., Mrs.
Emma Toone presiding. The annual report
was excellent, and it seemed good enough to
publish. From April 19th, 1882, to April 19th,
1883: No. of meetings held, 45; No. of mem-
bers, 155; average attendance, 75; READINGS,
Bible chapters, 9; Book of Mormon, 16; Doctrine
and Covenants, 7; Other Church Works, 12;
Miscellaneous, 24; Questions and Answers, 16
times. RECITATIONS, Bible, No. of verses, 30;
Book of Mormon, 18; Doctrine Covenants, 20;
Other Church Works, 27; Miscellaneous, 77;
Testimones borne, 152; Essays, 16; Organ Solo's,
7; Dialogues, 8. FINANCIAL, Cash received,
$12.70; Cash disbursed, $6.00, Cash on hand,
$6.70; Programme of exercises. Singing, and
prayer by Elder T. B. Lewis. Recitation, by sever
al of the members, "Welcome To All;" Reading,
Selina Puzey, Practical Education; Song, Lucy
Savage and Emily Sharp; Recitation, Lawrence
Romney; Essay, Isabella Salmon, "On the Prim-
aries; Recitation, Georgina Toone, "Address to
the Primaries; Song, Eva Ellis and Ida San-
some; Dialogue, Josie and Olive Simmons;

[Column 2]
Bible recitation, T. B. Lewis; Essay, Kate
Sharp, "On the Primaries;" Song, Juvenile choir;
Recitation, five of the members; Recitation,
Willie Culmer, "Angels can do no more;" Dia-
logue, Frank Puzey and George Ferrins; Song,
Flora Phillips; Recitation, Lily Fowler; Recita-
tion, Albert Romney; Recitation, Maud and
Nellie Lewis, "The Soul's Prayer;" organ solo,
Ida Daynes; Recitation, four of the members,
"Helping Papa;" twenty-six Questions and
Answers; Recitation, Claude Lewis; Song, four
of the members; Essay, Willie Phillips; Recita-
tion, Rhoda Jackson, Primary Speaker; Recita-
tion, Eliza Lyon, "Did you think to pray;" Song,
Mary Romney; Dialogue, Sarah A. Knott and
L'zetta Evans, "Between a mother and a little
child;" Recitation, Edwin Wright; Song, Hattie
Horsley and Eliza Knight; Recitation, Frank
Lewis, Bible verses; Song, Mabel Brown.
	After the exercises, remarks were made by
Elders T. B. Lewis, C. R. Savage and Salmon,
and several of the sisters; a vote of thanks was
tendered to Sister Kate Miller Romney, for her
constant and efficient aid with the organ and
teaching the children singing ever since the
organization. Sister Toone has labored very
faithfully, and is reaping a rich reward in the
improvement of the little people under her
charge. Benediction by Sister P. L. Kimball.
	In the evening there was a social entertain-
ment for the Primary, which was very enjoy-
able indeed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 181


OBITUARY.

	Died, at Kaysville, August 19th, 1882, Clara Burton,
wife of Frederic Burton, and daughter of Mark and
Hannah Beazer, born October 11th, 1860, at Kaysville,
Davis County, Utah.
	Sister Burton has lived and died a faithful Latter-day
Saint. She has left a husband and one child, besides
many friends by whom she will be greatly missed. She
has been a faithful member of the Y. L. M. I. A. ever
since its organization, in 1876, she has ever been on
hand to do good, and attend her meetings, for duty
never seemed a task to her. She was, in every sense of
the word, an example to the young ladies worthy of
imitation.
	TESTIMONIAL OF RESPECT.—Inasmuch as it has
pleased our Heavenly Father to take from our midst
another of our dear sisters, we, the young ladies of the
M. I. A., resolve to manifest our appreciation and res-
pect to our departed sister.
	Resolved, That we will try to follow the example of
our departed sister in our lives.
	Resolved, That we condole with each other in the
great loss we sustain in our bereavement, and tender a
token of respect and sympathy to her husband, parents,
and family in this their hour of trial, hoping we will
ever emulate her worth.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolu-
tions to her bereaved family, and publish a copy of the
same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on
our record. MARY A. S. SNOW, President.
						MARIAM BARNES,
						SARAH H. SHEFFIELD,
									Couselors.

	Died, in Nephi, March 26th, 1883, of a paralytic
stroke, Mary Hannah Miller, wife of Thomas Miller.
Deceased was born April 14th, 1834, Derby England.
	At our last Relief Society meeting the following pre-
amble and resolutions were unanimously adopted.
	Whereas, It has pleased God our Heavenly Father to
release from her sufferings our much beloved sister,
Therefore,
	Resolved, That we do recognize in the death of Sis-
ter Mary Hannah Miller, the loss of a faithful teacher
in the Nephi Relief Society, a friend to the needy, a
comforter in the hour of trouble, a devoted wife and
mother, and a faithful member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Resolved, That we esteem her faithful labors and
devotion to the interests of Zion, as worthy the emula-
tion of every member in our Society.


Resolved, that we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband, children,  relatives and
friends, in the loss of a faithful wife, mother, and con-
fiding friend.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
records of the Nephi Relief Society, and that we publish
the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						M. PITCHFORTH, President.
						M. E. TEASDALE, Secretary.


GONE TO HER REST.

Tribute of respect to the late Huldah Meriah Ballan-
iyne.

	The funeral services over the remains of Sister Huldah
Mariah Ballantyne, wife of Elder Richard Ballantyne,
were held in the Fourth Ward schoolhouse, on Thurs-
day afternoon, April 5th, 1883. The building was filled
to its utmost capacity with friends who went there to
pay their last tribute of respect to the memory of their
departed friend.
	The services were conducted by Bishop Edwin Strat-
ford. The choir sang:
		"Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
			Their wearied bodies down."
	Prayer was then offered by Elder Joseph Parry. The
choir then sang:
		"Sister, thou wert mild and lovely."
After which David M. Stewart addressed the assembly
for a few minutes. He said he had been acquainted
with Sister Ballantyne for twenty years. He knew she
was a good, kind-hearted lady, and a faithful Saint of
God. She was always ready, willing, and took a delight
in administering to the afflicted and supplying comfort,
consolation and material help to those who were in
need.
	These kind offices were not confined to those of her
own household, but were extended to the whole neigh-
borhood in which she resided. Many will miss her, and
by her death will lose a kind friend who acted towards
them like an administering angel. But outside of her
own family circle none will realize the loss of her socie-
ty and good offices more than the Fourth Ward Ladies'
Relief Society, with whom she had been associated, and
whose best interests she had labored many years to pro-
mote. She has made many friends who mourn her de-
parture, and whose hearts are filled with blessings for
her and her posterity, who will perpetuate her name
and memory. She has been a woman of integrity; she
has fought the good fight. She has kept the faith, and
has secured for herself an eternal inheritance in the
Kingdom of God.
	President O. F. Middleton was the next speaker. He
fully endorsed all that had been said by Elder Stewart,
as he had been long acquainted with the deceased, and
knew that every word that had been uttered concerning
her was true. He sympathized with the bereaved hus-
band and family in their affliction. He knew, of course,
that we are all appointed to die, and it is but a matter
of time when each one of us will be called upon to
pass through this ordeal. But the Gospel is full of
promises to the faithful Saints of God, and those who
remain true to the end of their lives will receive a re-
ward in the resurrection that will fully compensate
them for all their sufferings for the Gospel's sake. He
prayed that God would bless all present with His Spirit
and enable us so to live that when at last our end shall
come it may be like that of our departed sister. She
lived the life of the righteous, she died in the Lord, and
her eternal reward is sure.
	President N. C. Flygare next spoke. He said it fell
to his lot to be with Sister Ballantyne during the last
hours of her sickness. She had been a very great suffer-
er. Her body was worn out in the services of God and
His people. But she had borne it all with much pa-
tience and fortitude, until the Lord relieved her by
death. Her sufferings are over; she is now free from all
her sorrows and has gone to her rest. He then spoke of
her long, faithful, and efficient labors in the Relief So-
ciety in the Fourth Ward, over which she presided for
about four years. Her mission on earth is done and she
has earned a name that will never perish.
	Elder Lorin Farr next briefly addressed the meeting.
He said he had been acquainted with Sister Ballantyne
for some thirty-eight years, and never saw her during
that time when she was not ready to impart of her sub-
stance to administer to those who were in distress. He
never knew her otherwise than an honorable, upright
woman, faithful wife, affectionate mother, and true Lat-
ter-day Saint. He was in full sympathy with all that
had been said of her by the former speakers.


Bishop Stratford made a few appropriate remarks,
after which the choir sang:
		"Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb,
		Take this new treasure to thy trust."
	The benediction was pronounced by Bishop F. A.
Hammond.
	The cortege then took up its march to the cemetery
where the remains of Sister Huldah Meriah Ballantyne
were laid to rest.
	Deceased was the daughter of Gardner and Electa
Clark. She was born at Genesce, New York, October
26th, 1823. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1840, by Elder Orson
Hyde—by whom she was also confirmed—at Geneva, 
Illinois. She gathered with her parents and family to
Nauvoo, in 1842. She remained there until 1846, when 
she was expelled from her home, in connection with 
thousands of others who were driven away by the hands
of a ruthless mob. She went to Winter Quarters, 
where, on February 17th, 1847, she was married to Rich-
ard Ballantyne by President Heber C. Kimball.
	In the fall of 1848, she arrived with her husband in
Salt Lake City. In 1860 she moved to Weber County.
For six years she resided in Eden, Ogden Valley. The 
remainder of the time since that period she has lived in
this city.
	On the 4th of January, 1879, she was appointed Presi-
dent of the Fourth Ward Relief Society, over which she
has continued to preside until her demise. She was the
mother of nine children, four sons and five daughters.
One boy and girl are dead. She has also twelve grand-
children. Sister Ballantyne has been sick with general
debility for about one year, during which time she was
a great sufferer. She retained the use of all her mental 
faculties to the last moment of her life, and died sur-
rounded by all her loving children, with whom she
shook hands and left with them her parting blessing.
	On the casket bearing the remains was the following, 
encircled by a beautiful white wreath:
	"A tribute of Respect in memory of Sister H. Ballan-
tyne, the first President of the 4th Ward Relief Society.
Presented by the officers and members of the Society.
Absent but not forgotten."
	Ogden HERALD, April 6th, 1883.


182	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

BEAVER.
	A Conference of the Ladies' Relief Society
of Beaver Stake, was held in the Meeting
House at Minersville, on March 2nd, Sister
Lucinda Howd presiding. Sister Howd's 
Counselors and the Presidency of the different
wards were present. There was quite a good
attendance of the sisters, and a good repre-
sentation of the brethren. The presidents of
the several wards gave verbal reports, showing
them to be in a prosperous condition. Bishop
McKnight, of Minersville, expressed himself
as being well pleased with the reports he had
heard, and gave the sisters good instructions.
Mrs. S. M. Dell read an extract from a sermon
by Joseph Smith, published in the Contributor
of August last, calculated to give the people a 
proper understanding of the vexed question,
whether the sisters have a right to lay on
hands for the recovery of the sick. Remarks
were made by a number of the brethren and
sisters, that were instructive and pleasing, and
the conference throughout was thoroughly en-
joyable. The young ladies held their confer-
ence in the evening of the same day; on the
day following the Primary conference was
held, Mrs. M. A. Tolton presiding.
	ELIZABETH FARNWORTH.

LONDON.
	The Ninth Anniversary of the White-
chapel Branch Relief Society, was held March
4th, in Orson's Assembly Rooms, New Road,
Mile End, London. This hall is now the regu-
lar meeting place of the Whitechapel Branch,
and is well adapted for holding meetings or 
concerts. It is large and well appointed; the
walls are hung with mirrors and pictures of
considerable value. Its acoustic properties are

[Column 2]

good; and in fact is considered the best hall
in the European Mission. It was in this place, 
thus briefly described, that the Relief Society
celebrated by a concert, or entertainment,
what proved to be a most successful anni-
versary. The programme for the evening was
varied and extensive, and contained over
thirty names. Bishop O. F. Whitney, at pres-
sent acting as President of the London Confer-
ence during the temporary absence of Presi-
dent J. A. West, was present, and assisted, and, 
as is well know, is a host in himself. Elders
Nye and King likewise assisted. The concert
opened with prayer by Bishop Whitney, who
prayed that nothing might be said or done but
that which the Lord might approve.
	President Garner, the Branch President, who
presided, then called upon the children of the
Sunday School to sing a greeting song. Then
Sister Ann Gell, the efficient Secretary of the
Whitechapel Branch for the year ending
March 4th, 1883, being the Ninth Anniver-
sary, having been organized March 4th, 1874,
under the Presidency of Bishop Burton. The
Society consists of a President, two Counselors,
Secretary, and six Teachers. Number of 
meetings held during the year, fourteen; Visits
paid, ninety-six; Cash collected from all sources
£7. 16. 9; Disbursements, £5. 18. 11; On hand,
£1. 17. 10. The sisters have been greatly 
blessed in their endeavors, and have enjoyed
a bountiful supply of the Holy Spirit. Pray-
ing that we may be faithful to the end,
through Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Signed	ELIZABETH YOUNG, President.
			ANN GELL, Secretary.
	President Garner then called upon Elder
A. R. Clark to give a recitation from Homer's 
Odyssy, which was well received. Of course
it would almost seem invidious to draw com-
parisons, when all did their best to add to the 
sum total of the evening's enjoyment; but
marked excellence seems to call for a little
special recognition. A recitation by Bishop
Whitney, entitled, "The Old Hat," charmed
the audience and excited much laughter. A
duet by Elder King and Sister Angie Cross,
was given  taste and feeling. Elder Nye
gave "The Moneyless Man," the sentiments
embodied in which were well suited to further
the object of the Society. Lines composed by
President Garner on "The Ca[-]t" were recited
in a sprightly manner by Sister Annie Davies.
The nature, habits, etc. of that feline species,
were delineated in a style that charmed and
delighted both young and old. Some 
verses on the Priesthood, composed by Elder
Garner, and which he recited himself, were
well received; they not only interested, but 
instructed as well. A song, "Timothy," by
Sister Brain, was well sung, as was a song by
Sister Mary A. Spillman. A duet by Presi-
dent S. Spillman and Sister Sarah Edgley,
proved a success; as did a song of Sister Gell's,
entitled, the "Old Maid." Sister Young, of 
the Relief Society, sang "The Merry Mor-
mons," and Sister Whitpin, "The Son of God 
will come." A recitation by a little girl seven
years of age, the daughter of President Gar-
ner, deserves to be noticed; it was given with
such charming coolness and precision. Sister
Mary Garner, the wife of the respected Presi-
dent of the Whitechapel Branch, gave a reci-
tation, and President F. Garner sang a song
with a chorus that the audience seemed to take
up with considerable vigor. At a late hour a 
vote of thanks was moved by President S.
Spillman, seconded, and carried unanimously,
to the Relief Society, and to all those who had
assisted in bringing to a successful issue this
the  ninth anniversary of the Whitechapel
Relief Society.
	The concert was largely  attended by the
Saints from other branches, with a fair sprink-

[Column 3]

ling of strangers, who thus testified by their
presence, their sympathy for, and their desire
to aid so good a cause.
	Signed	ALEXANDER R. CLARK,
		Branch Secretary.

	MOAB, EMERY CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Feeling almost sure you have never heard
from this part of the Lord's vineyard, we
thought a few words from here would be of in-
terest to the sisters, as we are all engaged in
the same work. There is but one copy of the
EXPONENT taken here at present, but through
it we are able to learn that many of our sisters
are far ahead of us in the Societies and Asso-
ciations, having the great  privilege from time 
to time of getting instruction from those great
and noble men and women that we away out
here, on the outskirts as it were, so much de-
sire to see and hear.  It seems to me that those
who have these privileges cannot fully realize
the great blessing unless they have been at
some time deprived of it. Nevertheless we do
not feel to shrink or give up trying to learn 
and improve in the way that we should walk
to become great and noble and find favor with
our Heavenly Father. 
	The sisters of this ward were organized into
a Relief Society on February 19th, 1883, by
President C. G. Larsen and others of the 
Emery Stake of Zion, with the following offi-
cers: Mary Jenson, President; Sarah Burnham
and Priscilla Warner, Counselors; Amanda
Taylor, Secretary; and Sarah J. Stewart,
Treasurer. Fifteen members were enrolled,
and I can truly say we had a time of rejoicing.
Meetings were held here by these brethren
four days in succession, and we received just 
such counsel as we needed. I think, and know
in fact, that the Relief Society will help
to unite the sisters, to strengthen and encour-
age them in well-doing, as some of them have
lived here four years without any of these or-
ganizations. We realize the good instructions
that we get through the EXPONENT from time
to time, for although we have a stake organiza-
tion we could not expect the sisters to come
and see us at present, as they would have to
travel by wagons and over rough roads 
one hundred and twenty miles and expose them-
selves. Ever praying for the spread of the
Gospel and the success of the EXPONENT, we
remain your sisters in the everlasting covenant,
	MARY JENSEN,
	SARAH BURNHAM.
April 14th, 1883.


VISIT TO VIRGEN CITY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At the request of our worthy President, I
attempt a brief sketch of a visit to Virgen City
for the purpose of holding a semi-annual confer-
ence of the Relief Society of this Stake of Zion,
and also to visit other settlements along the
Rio Virgen. Our company consisted of Apos-
tle E. Snow, Minerva W. Snow, President of 
Relief Society, Mary B. Eyring, President of 
Silk Association, Mary Whitehead and Arte-
misia Segmiller, Counselors to Elizabeth S. 
Ivins, President of Y. L. M. I. A., Julia
Ivins, President of Primaries, and your corres-
pondent.
	Left St. George Friday morning, 2nd inst;
took dinner at Leeds; arrived at Toquerville at
five p.m.; held meeting at seven, R. S. and Y. 
L. M. combined. 3rd. At nine a.m. meeting of
primaries; thence to Virgen City; met with the
Primaries at two and the Y. L. M. at seven p.m.
	Sunday, 4th. Conference of R. S. convened 
at eleven a.m., a general attendance from the
different settlements; the verbal reports of
the different wards showed the Societies in
good condition; we had much good instruction


from Minerva W. Snow and others. Apostle
E. Snow, President of this Southern Mission,
spoke on the duties and privileges of Latter-
day Saints, combining fatherly counsel with
gentle reproof, that all might be guided by the
admonition of the good Spirit and be ad-
vanced in the general interest of the King-
dom.
	At two p.m. a general meeting was ad-
dressed by President E. Snow, touching on
various subjects, speaking quite lengthy on the
evils of drink, censuring severely those who
sold wine and intoxicating liquors, but left his
blessing with the congregation. After meet-
ing, drove to Grafton and held joint meeting of
the Societies and stopped for the night. 5th.
Drove to Rockville; met with the Primaries at
eleven, and the Relief Society at two p.m. A
general meeting in the evening was addressed
by President Snow and others. 6th. Parted
with President Snow and lady, who went on to
Kanab, the others returning came to Duncan
and held two short meetings; an excellent
feeling prevailed; then to Toquerville and
held evening meeting. 7th. Came to Leeds,
and held meeting at eleven; thence home.
We had a pleasant time and enjoyed ourselves
in meeting and associating with the people,
and found a peaceable happy spirit prevailing,
and felt to say, truly these are a people of
God, every way worthy the name of Latter-day
Saints.				F. C. BROWN,
							Secretary R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 183


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESIDENIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]
	Sister Presendia, in connection with her hus-
band, received all the ordinances and blessings
in the Temple, that those are entitled to who
enter into holy covenants in the order of celes-
tial marriage. She remained in Nauvoo until
the work in the Temple was finished, and as
she was well fitted out with a good substantial
carriage and span of horses, and had her two
boys with her, she was advised to remain, when
she could be in readiness to leave with the
Saints when they started west "into the wilder-
ness." She took her children and team, jand
crossed the Mississippi river into Iowa, and
stayed with a family by the name of Jordan.
However, some of her friends who were opposed
to her going west, and also opposed to the Gos-
pel, heard of her intention, followed her into
the retreat where she was waiting, and succeed-
ed by stratagem in effecting her return to Lima.
On her way she passed through Nauvoo, saw
President Brigham Young and had some con-
versation with him about her circumstances,
and what course would be best to pursue.
Her brother William and his wife went with
her to Lima, and remained a week, and then
she was left alone among a people bitter against
the Saints, and filled with the spirit of persecu-
tion. Time passed and the Saints had nearly
all left for the west, Sister Presendia felt as if
she was at the mercy of the mob, and indeed
plans were laid to destroy her. One night a
subterfuge was invented to decoy her out of
doors in the dark; she felt a great fear come
over her, and resisted, but the tenant at the
mill close by, hearing the disturbance, came
out and set his dogs on the mob, and they went
back through the orchard to the woods. Sister
Presendia says, "then I fully realized the dan-
ger that surrounded me, not a Mormon near me;
I prayed for help and my prayer was answered;
my brother William sent a messenger, telling
me to leave all my worldly possessions and
come; my house was full of good things for my
comfort, but I walked out of it, leaving all be-
hind, on the 2nd day of May, 1846, with my

[Column 2]
little boy seven years old, who had just been
sick with the measles, and not able to be up;
but I was flying for my life; I knew I must go
before the mill closed for the night, and with
the help of my son George, then sixteen years
of age, I succeeded in getting away, taking
Oliver, the youngest, with me. We traveled
all night on the old road to Nauvoo, and
reached Dr. Spurgeon's at day break. There
I took some refreshment, and then knowing I
should be pursued, and that the mob would be
on my track, I went away to the woods with
my little boy, and stayed all day long, fasting
and praying for deliverance. I picked flowers
to amuse him, for it was Spring-time, and I
gave him water from a stream running down
the bluffs into the Mississippi. The Doctor's
house was full of company all day long, but
when they had gone, at evening his daughter
came out to the woods and I went back with
her for the night, sleeping with my sick boy
on a little feather bed on the floor. I real-
ized the great contrast in my situation, no
home, no bed to rest in, nothing to live
upon but my trust in God and my friends.
The next day I got in a wagon and hid my-
self; when we arrived at Nashville, the place
to cross the river, the teams being taken to
the Iowa side, I saw a man I knew was
looking for me; I kept out of his sight until
he had past, and then retired again to the
woods for safety. However, I got some ti-
dings from home through a messenger, and
learned that the mob had been sent, as I antici-
pated, and were searching Nauvoo for me, and
to take my child away from me. My brother
Dimick Huntington had not yet left Nauvoo,
but he sent his sons to take charge of me, and
see me safely out of Illinois, and I went on to
Sugar Creek. This was the first camping
place of the Saints who left Nauvoo. I stayed
in a deep ravine, secluded from everybody, un-
til I could have a few things brought to me,
which I had previously left with my father. I
slept on a buffalo robe at night, on the ground,
with my little child. No tongue can tell what
my feelings were during those days of severe
trial. But I had considered well, and weighed
the matter beforehand, and I felt I would
rather go with the Saints and suffer and die
with them, than live in Babylon, as I had lived
before. When it was safe to travel we started
out on the route the Saints had taken. We
arrived at Bonaparte, Brother Moses Clawson
helped me to make some purchases, as I had
a little money with me, and he carried my
flour for me. The excitement I had gone
through, and the exposure to cold, lying upon
the ground and not having proper food or rest
gave me cold—fever set in and I was very
ill."
	"Brother Joseph Coolidge came along and he
gave me some medicine, which benefited me
very much. This was when we were near
Garden Grove. We arrived safely at Mt.
Pisgah; there I found my father, and my sister
Zina and her children. They were living in a
log house without any chimney and not any
floor. It was a sickly location, nearly every family
had some sick, and many died there on Grand
River. It was thought best for me to remain
there awhile with my father. Very soon after
arriving there, men were sent by the govern-
ment of the United States, to get volunteers to
march to Mexico—from among the Mormons,
to fight for a government that had suffered us
to be driven out at the point of the bayonet.
Men and teams were called for to take these
volunteers to Col. Sarpee's trading post on
the Missouri River. Charles C. Rich and my
father, Brother Huntington, presided at Mt.
Pisgah. They considered my case, and decided
to send me in Father Bird's team to the bluffs
on the Missouri River, and then I saw the five-
hundred men enrolled as volunteers and take
up the line of march to Mexico. My brother

[Column 3]
Dimick, brave-hearted and strong, with his
family, was among the number. His wife
Fanny wintered in Pueblo, where she had a
daughter born under the most trying and pain-
ful circumstances. I was left behind, alone as
it were; I remained at what was then known as
Cutler's Park. I went to keep house for Cap-
tain James Brown, in connection with Joseph
Woodmansee. However, we passed the winter
in the place known as Winter Quarters, now
designated Florence, on the famous Missouri
River. Before leaving Cutler's Park I was
very ill; it was feared that I would die. At
the same time my father was at Pisgah, also
my sister Zina, my brother Dimick in Mexico,
my brother William in St. Louis, my brother
Oliver on a mission in Europe, and anon came
the tidings that my veteran father had died at
Pisgah, my friend, my counselor, my own dear
parent, to whom I looked for counsel and ad-
vice for the future that stretched out before me
like a great unknown and undiscovered desert
unrelieved and barren. My grief was deep
and heartfelt; I had only my Heavenly Father
left, and I reached out in faith to the one
above to open the heavens for me, and aid me
in my loneliness. I was in a new and wild
country without means, and this was indeed a
great change; but I knew the Lord would pro-
vide, and He always has. Joseph Woodmansee
and his brother Henry were building a log
cabin, and they wanted me to keep house for
them, and superintend their home; but I was
no sooner established there, than their father
wrote for them to come back home to winter,
and I was left in charge of their goods and
home. After they left I started a school, which
was a great blessing to the children. It was
very hard times for all the Saints, sickness was
very prevalent, diseases that were brought on
for want of proper food, and from hardships
incidental to the journey."

To be Continued.


THOUGHTS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	My thoughts are legion at the present mo-
ment; would it be possible to concentrate them
into a certain forcii let me try; the first
thought that pioneered the residue, was a
conviction of what a blessing a peaceful, con-
tented mind is to the possessor, and also to all
whom it may come in contact, or be associated
with; and who has no undue craving for that
which is not within its reach; one who can be-
hold the grandeur that wealth bestows, yet
feel no envy, but can even rejoice in the pros-
perity of another; that can see others lauded,
and even preferred before themselves, yet feel
no heart burning, have no regrets; one who
can daily retire into their own home, although
it may be humble, but they ever find it "swept
and garnished," with pure thoughts and sweet
influences, and the spirit of peace prevading it,
and they rejoice therein. Some cannot realize
that true happiness is more often found in the
"sequestered vale," than in the halls of pleas-
ure; if happiness dwells in our own bosom we
carry it with us wherever we may be; we do
not look outward or around for it but feel that
is an individual possession; then, life in all its
phases is enjoyable. It is a general impression
that riches bring happiness and enjoyment;
they may—or they may not; the way in which
they are used decides the question; they certain-
ly give the possessor a grand opportunity of
blessing themselves, by blessing those from
whom wealth had been withheld; and 'tis more
blessed to give than to receive; there is a nobil-
ity in giving, and most certainly a nobility in
receiving a gift. Strange as it may seem; there
are those that it is impossible to bless; if it
would be attempted, they would throw back


[Column 1]
﻿the offered blessing as though they had been
insulted, and would seem to expect an apology
for the offering, fearing it should be known
that they are poor! and they call this dignity
and proper pride—and in this pride and digni-
ty they fold themselves up, and feed upon
bitterness and complaining, and envy and re-
gret, and call themselves noble!—such perver-
sion of feeling is strange yet true; some minds
are easily made happy, even by the common
occurrences of life; the Creator has caused
them to see through a lens, that makes every-
thing in life look charming—more or less—has
given them a faculty to receive quickly beauti-
ful impressions; and to them nature herself
looks heavenly; everything within and without
them seems magnified beauty, by the rich ap-
preciation with which they are gifted; the tree,
the flower, the murmuring brook, the song of
birds, and indeed the universal world has
charms for them; even poverty brings to them
an accompanying blessing, from the hand of
love and friendship, that the wealthy know
not; it is sweet to be fed when we are hungry—
the rich know nothing of hunger. 'Tis sweet
to have a new garmemt brought to us when we
absolutely need it—a full wardrobe can never
give this blessing. 'Tis sweet to labor, it un-
loads the brain of too much spirituality—the
luxurious know nothing of such rewards.
Bread eaten by labor, how sweet it is! Nature
has worked herself hungry, and plain whole-
some food is then sweet to the taste. Poverty
is generally despised, and the poor bear the
stigma; yet one beautiful writer calls it "holy"
—it is certain the Savior gave the poor a
peculiar blessing, both in the present and in
the grand restoration of all things. His words
were "Blessed are the poor, for they shall in-
herit the earth;" and He chose that class for
His associates on earth;" yet many that are rich
are "poor in spirit," and estimate their wealth
at its real value—and their heart and their
hand and their purse are one!—God bless all
such, and long may they possess wealth and
long life to dispense it, and bless their fellow
creatures.
	Happiness is the goal for which we all pant,
yet how few really possess it! Why? generally
because they imagine it to be something which
they do not possess, and which others have at-
tained. Happiness ought to be in the possession
of every human being. The great Creator
forms His creatures for happiness, the fault
then lies with the children of earth, the ma-
terial for happiness is all around us—every-
where present. Heaven itself is around and
about us, in the very air we breathe, in all we
taste, touch, or behold; why do we not realize
it? because nature is perverted. Can we not
see it? Can we not remedy the evil? Yes, we
could do much towards it, if we would be more
simple-minded, more child-like, more individu-
alized—but instead of studying ourselves, and
finding out what would really make us happy
to-day, we study other people, fancy that what
they possess would make us happy, when proba-
bly we grasp at a shadow, and while doing
that we lose the substance! Let us study our-
selves, and endeavor to become fully acquainted
with the cravings of our own heart and brain,
take self into our studio—placing it upon the
easel, and see where we can retouch the sketch,
(for human nature is but a sketch at present)
and see where we can make it a more perfect
representation of what the Maker intended it
to prefigure—"Only a little lower than the
angels" was the motto sent forth with mankind
upon the earth. "Alas! how are the mighty
fallen!" Still we need not despair; men and
women are yet upon the earth, that portray the
high destiny from whence they came and to
which in due time they shall be restored,
renewed and regenerated, the posterity of the
gods! The ideas I have just written places all
on the highest pinnacle of the ladder of intel-

[Column 2]
ligence, which gives that knowledge which
alone is power! wealth does not make men and
women great; no, it is work, labor, the sweat of
the brow, the sweat of the brain, and the
stretch of the heart-strings; from such come
intelligence, discipline, appreciation, wisdom,
understanding, courage, fortitude and endur-
ance—of such giants are formed. Who are the gi-
ants of any age? the laborers, the workers, have
we not seen it with our own eyes in our own day?
Who have been the master-minds in the age in
which we have lived upon the earth? Need I
name them? No, they stand before the world
as "beacons set upon a hill that cannot be hid,"
but one, the last, I must name—his ashes have
not yet lost their "wonted fires," one from the
people—born, lived, and died of the people!
a son of a provincial tradesman, possessing no
wealth, yet raised himself to be the first
statesman of Europe, and of importance to-day,
Though he was all this, and poor was still the
entertainer, and the entertained of kings and
princes. The Prince of Wales was a great ad-
mirer of Gambetta, liked his society, and cor-
dially invited him to visit England as his guest
assured him he would be well received by
the English people. There are few that could
have declined such a tempting honor, but
Gambetta probably felt the offer very agreeable,
but not acceptable by him—he shrank from
compromising his position, which he himself
had acquired as the first statesman of Euro-
pean importance, and as the man among men!
It lays bare to my view the true and sterling,
nobility of his character, and his immense
individuality!
	George Eliot also was of humble origin,
though of highly respectable and enlightened
parentage. "The rank is but the guinea stamp,"
'tis the gold that tells the worth. These two
are but types of a vast multitude—bless and
thank the Lord there have been in all ages,
and there are to-day, men and women that
have stood out, and stand out to-day as types of
the grand original, "only a little lower than
the angels." May we as a people leave the
"rank of the guinea stamp," and determine to
be the gold, and if we must have the alloy to
render us current—so be it. "Hands off"—
God is our Father—Christ is our Captain, and
if we are true soldiers victory is sure, indi-
vidually and collectively. Amen.
	Salt Lake City, April 19th, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿Maria Mitchell, Professor of Astronomy in
Vassar College, has received the degree of L.L.
D. from Hanover College, Madison, Ind., the
first time this degree has been conferred upon a
woman.
	A pair of Sevres vases ordered for Queen
Victoria's birthday are mounted upon a pedes-
tal of Mexican onyx, decorated in French
bronze and surmounted by a crown of flowers
of the same material, in rare workmanship;
the handles are likewise of bronze. The
designs upon the pair, on a groundwork of old
blue enamel, represents Venus rising from the
sea and the fable of Europe.


[Column 1]
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets , 	Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns, 	Brooms,
Linseya, 	Cassimers, 		Washboards,
Jeans, 		Tweeds, 		Brabes, Etc, Etc.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSRY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE,
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING ,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
WM. JENNINGS, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY,

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUNS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1883.	No. 24.


﻿LUCY SMITH.

The Prophets mother! On her breast
	The sacred infant slept,
From infancy to youth, her love
	Its faithful watchcare kept;
And from his lips—a gentle child's—
	Whose easliest words she taught,
Her ear and heart with joy received
	The wondrous truths he brought.

Unfaltering, when men amazed
	Their chosen master proved,
Through persecutions, aye, till death—
	Her love, her faith, unmoved.
Whose rapture like the mothers own
	That through all suff'ring smiled!
Whose woe like hers? who would have died
	For him, her Prophet child!

Prophet and Patriarch, her sons.
	Before the mother's eyes
Did visions of the gauntlet path
	And martyrdom, arise?
Or, answering prophetic fears,
	Did heaven in mercy bend
With strength and balm, and promise sure
	To lead her to the end?

Of women, it was she who first
	Received baptismal birth,
When from the throne of God, his work
	Was brought again to earth—
The life that here was one with them,
	Linked still with theirs will shine
With ransomed souls eternally,
	In courts and spheres divine.

Within the heart of ev'ry Saint
	Forever be endeared
The tender face, the noble life,
	The mother heaven revered.
Long hath she slept in silence sweet,
	And now her rest is won,
Awake her name, that younger Saints
	Forget not this dear one.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
April 12th 1883.


[Column 1]

OUR FRANCHISE.

	If the Legislature of the Territory of Utah
had the right to grant the franchise to the
women of the Territory, (and they having vio-
lated no law of the Constitution of the United
States) by what right, political or otherwise,
shall Senator Edmunds, or any other man, say
it shall be taken away? He says it is because
they vote as a unit, "because they vote as they
are compelled by their husbands." I ask, why
he should complain, if we, as the "poor women"
of Utah, choose to vote for men whom we
have proven to be men of God; because 
vote for men who have proven themselves to
be honorable and just, who conceive it to be
their duty to maintain the principles of true
liberty, to promote the welfare of their con-
stituents; and because we claim the right of
Americans, to vote according to our own con-
victions of right; we claim the right to vote
for freedom of thought and speech, and to wor-
ship God according to those convictions; we, as
a community, claim the right to vote for men
that are God-fearing, that will perpetuate the 
principles of virtue, of holiness, of honesty, of
integrity, and good will to all men, that will 
implant in the minds of the community at
large that it is by unity we stand; it is by
unity that any enterprise (whether political,
social, or moral) will become a success. The

[Column 2]

whole world is striving for a unity of action;
the Democrats are striving with all their might
for a unity of action in the interests
of their party; and who shall say, if they suc-
ceed they shall be dispossessed of the right of
the ballot? The Republicans are exerting all
their powers for the same object; and shall
they also lose their right to vote, if by chance
they should become united? Every society
seeks the unity of its members as a necessity
to its success; and shall all such be debarred
the rights of freedom, or is it because we are
women, the weaker sex, that man, proud
man, exalted to a little brief authority, seeks to
deprive us, the "poor women" of Utah, of our
rights? Because what, forsooth? Because we
are one with our husbands in the maintenance
of the principles of freedom, do they think
that we, as the honorable wives of honorable
men, having had the franchise for so long a
time, (with a secret ballot) would not, ere this,
have thrown off the yoke if we were in bond-
age? If (as Senator Edmunds says) we were
living under the influence of a Mormon hier-
archy, such as he represents, we could at any
moment have thrown it off and voted against
our brethren. How did our commissioners
find out the minds of the "women of Utah?"
How could they judge of the sentiments of the
people, when they never traveled through the
Territory to find out the true feelings of the
people? They, like others, have been satisfied
to draw their own conclusions from a few of 
our enemies, or those who have been excluded
from good society, hence they are not capable of
judging.
	Senator Edmunds is as much in the dark as
are our commissioners, with regard to the
feelings, impulses, and sentiments of the women
of Utah, and I can say that I have enjoyed
the right of franchise for twelve years, and
have never failed to exercise that privilege,
(until it was taken from me) and I was not at
any time compelled to vote, only as I felt, in
my own mind, was right. Living under the
law of the Lord, it was to my interest to work
for the good of the people that were living
under the divine inspiration of God, our hea-
venly Father. The Almighty has condescend-
ed to reveal His Gospel to men on the earth in
this the last dispensation, and has instructed
His servants in this our day in all the ordi-
nances that He did the Ancient Saints; and
among other principles, He has revealed the
holy order of marriage, or a plurality of
wives, and I am proud to say that the Lord
has blessed me with the privilege of living in
the same. I honor all who practically honor
this principle, as it is only those who love this
law that will be found among the noble and 
exalted, and will reign forever a kingdom of
kings unto the Most High, as we find by read-
ing the Scriptures, that holy men of God whom
our Father loved, were men who lived in the
practice of plural marriage or were descendants
from those who lived in it. We find that
Abraham, Jacob, Solomon and David were
all favored of God, and were not reproved for
their many wives, but the Lord sanctioned the
practice, and blessed those who lived in that
holy order. By reading in Genesis xvi and
xvii Chapters we find how the angels of the
Lord appeared unto Hagar and blessed her,
and promised that she should become the
mother of a "great nation," also after that,
Abraham married Keturah, Genesis xxv
Chapter and 11 verse, yet he was the "father

[Column 3]

of the faithful and the friend of God." Also
the Lord blessed Jacob with his own voice,
and he had more wives than one. And Leah,
Rachel, Bilhah and Zilpha became the
mothers of the Twelve tribes of Israel.
	And was not David a man after God's own
heart? Jehoida, the Lord's High Priest, took
two wives for Joab, the king of Judah, who
redeemed Israel from idolatry. (Chronicles
xxiv, 3.) Solomon had many wives, and was
blessed of the Lord, until he ran after idola-
trous women; also Hosea was commanded to
take a second wife, and in fact, if we study
the Bible, we will find abundant evidence, to
convince a candid mind, that God not only
sanctioned the institution of the Patriarchal
order, but that he commanded his servants in
many instances to obey that law; therefore I
say as before, that it is an honor to belong to
such an institution, and how much higher is
that pure principle than such associations as
those existing in the world, where a man only
acknowledges one wife, but where many,
women are prostituted by the lusts of men who
look with horror over the snow-capped moun-
tains to the happy women of Utah and pity
their forlorn condition, while all around them,
on every street, in every corner you find hordes
of women who were once blooming in inno-
cence, the fairest of their sex, sunken to the
lowest grade of degradation. While the hus-
band (whom the confiding young wife has
trusted her life, her happiness and her all, in
his keeping) is secretly decoying to his treach-
erous heart some unsuspecting one, whom he
can, after having gratified his unhallowed pas-
sion, send forth into a cold-hearted world, un-
protected by the name of wife, or by the friend
who had betrayed her, a prey to the sting of
remorse and shame, to die, perchance, un-
cared for. When men think that these things
will escape the eye of an Almighty God they
are mistaken. I tell you the judgments of the
Almighty will fall on the nations of the earth
and sweep such wickedness from the face there-
of; we say to all who pity the women of Utah,
look at home, and cleanse the nation from the
stench of corruption that is sapping away the
foundations of virtue and happiness from the
land; and close up the places and dens of in-
famy in your own states, and then you can
look to your neighbors. The Lord, ere long,
will come out of his hiding and destroy those
that have rejected the Prophets and persecuted
his Saints, and those that have shed the blood
of the innocent and sought to deprive them of
their rights, they will be as stubble in the
time of God's judgment. We put our trust in
the Lord, knowing that we will be judged ac-
cording to our works (whether they be good or
bad) with a righteous judgment, and inasmuch
as we live faithful to our works (whether they be good or
bad) with a righteous judgment, and inasmuch
as we live faithful to our integrity and our
God, we fear not to trust ourselves in His
hands.
	 The wicked and ungodly we leave in the
hands of our Heavenly Father, knowing that
He will deal with them according to their de-
merits.	SARAH A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., April 9th, 1883.


It is much safer to obey than to govern.
Who is so wise that he can fully know all
things? Be not, therefore, to confident in
thine own opinion, but be willing to bear the
judgment of others.—Thomas d Kempis.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
	FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The first meeting held in the Temple at
Nauvoo was on Sunday, October 5th, 1845.
I was present with the choir on this occasion,
also at Conference the three following days.
The choir and orchestra occupied a gallery at
the west end, opposite the stand.  The follow-
ing items I take from my father's journal:
"Meeting opened at five minutes to eleven by
President B. Young as a form of dedication
prayer.  Great joy and gratitude was felt by
the Saints to realize this blessing which they
had so long looked for.  There were five thou-
sand persons seated comfortable. Elder John
Taylor preached respecting our moving to the
west.  Some few companies were called out
preparatory to organizing for removal.  In the
afternoon the four companies were addressed
by President B. Young."
	"Monday, 6th.  Our General Conference as-
sembled in the Temple for the first time; much
business was done.  The Twelve met in coun-
cil and for prayer, morning and evening, to
our Heavenly Father to stay the wrath of our
enemies, and to overthrow all their designs,
which He has done thus far, and we thank His
holy name.  Tuesday, 7th.  In the morning
the Twelve met for prayer in the usual place.
Conference met in the Temple.  I preached in
the morning, together with Amasa Lyman.
In the afternoon, when the Conference was as-
sembled, Major Warren came in with his posse
of troops and surrounded our cannon, suppos-
ing it was a mob, President Young dismissed
the conference and told the brethren to go
home, and let every man be prepared.  War-
ren commenced to search one or two houses--
they then went back to Carthage."
	"Wednesday, 8th.		*	*	Conference
met--much business was transacted.  Presi-
dent Young spoke upon the thieves who were
in the place, and Mother Smith spoke at some
length.	* 	*	This day was the close of
the conference.  All things went off in union,
not a dissenting voice in the congregation, and
a perfect union exhibited by the Saints to re-
move from the country the coming Spring.
All these things transpire in answer to the
prayers of the Saints, who meet together con-
stantly after the Holy Order; and the glory be
to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Ghost for His blessings upon Israel."
	"Thursday, 9th.  In the morning I, with
my brethren, met for prayer and then met in
the Temple to counsel them on going east, etc.,
to sell property, and much business present-
ed.	*	*	*	In the evening the
usual company met for prayer; the following
things were prayed for--the prosperity of the
Elders in the United States, and the brethren
on the South Pacific Islands, and the brethren
in the West among the red men of the forest,
that our enemies may be frustrated in all
their designs, that confusion and disorder and
treachery might enter into their ranks, that
the sick of His people might be healed, union
preserved, and that all of His servants may be
saved from their enemies, that they should
not have power to serve their vexatious writs,
that the Temple and font may be finished, and
dedicated and consecrated to the most high
God, that His servants and handmaids may
obtain their ordinances and sealing powers of
the Priesthood, and the way be opened for His
Saints to go to the west, etc." 
	On the 12th he mentions twenty-five cap-
tains being appointed, and all the companies
to number nine called out.  Next day he with
President Young, met for counsel with two
Lamanites, Joseph Herring (Shawnna tribe)
and Lewis Dana (Oneida nation).  He says,
"We ordained Joseph Herring an Elder, Lewis
Dana having previously been ordained.  We
had much conversation with them and received
much counsel from them as to the traits of
character of the red men.  	*	*	J. B. 
Backenstoss and several others came to my
house in the evening, and several tunes were
played on the piano by Sister Pitchforth."  I
remember this incident, and the lady whom
my father mentions was my music teacher--
her name I could hardly remember and was
pleased to see it mentioned in his journal.
	She had a little, delicate frame and was in-
experienced, like thousands who have emigra-
ted from the cities of the old country to the
western frontiers, more especially those who
have cast their lot with the Latter-day Saints.
But she, though in poverty with her children,
was never sad-- her countenance always wore
the same pleasant smile.  She was happy in
the knowledge that she had gained a key that
would open the door to the true riches that can
not perish.  She early sank under the many
hardships and privations which befell the lat-
ter-day pilgrims while journeying westward,
but members of her family are still living in
Utah who honorably represent her name. I
also remember the following incidents, copied
from father's journal: 
	"Tuesday, 14th.  Mary Gont was sealed to
Lewis Dana, a Lamanite, by B. Young, being
the first Lamanite having a wife sealed to him
under the New and Everlasting Covenant for
time and all eternity, she being a white
woman."  Her husband was civilized, and had
been an Elder about four years--he being the
first Lamanite ever ordained an Elder in the
Church of Latter-day Saints.
	Wednesday morning, the 15th, father  re-
ceived a letter from Sheriff Backenstos, re-
questing  an interview.  "At two o'clock," he
says, "I met J. B. Backenstos at his room in
the Mansion.	*	*	He then and there
gave me his mind and views concerning the
religion we professed to believe, he firmly and
positively believed it to be the truth, and he in-
tended to embrace it by going forward in the
waters of baptism soon, and he would go with
us the whole extent to the expense of his life
and all he possessed."
	"Saturday, 18th.  	*	*	Much rumor of
war. 	*	*	Elder Hyde returned home
from the east and brought five thousand yards
of topsail Russia duck."  This was for tents
and wagon covers.  "Sunday, 19th," he wrote,
"Met at the Temple in company with the
Twelve.  Elder Hyde preached.  At four in
the afternoon and Twelve met their company
to organize them in the following manner by
placing captains over fifties and tens, and each
captain organizing his own company." On the
20th, he says, "General Arlington Bennett
came into our city--had an interview with
him at Dr. Richard's.  	*	*	I solicited
him to meet us at John Taylor's in council this
evening.  He met according to agreement--
continued with us till ten o'clock."  Next day
a posse of the Governor's troops came into the
city, but did not interfere with any one and
soon left.
	He wrote on the 23rd, "The Governor's posse,
consisting of thirteen men, came into the city
to take Bogus Press, and searched Brother
Woodworth's house (one of our near neigh-
bors) and then left the city, 	*	*	On the
24th one of the Governor's troops was shot by
Brother Bigelow in self-defense (not mortally).
Report says that General Arlington Bennett
was hissed out of Carthage yesterday.	*	*
At this time matters look dark--our enemies
are much enraged.	*	*	*	Wherein
we have asked the Lord He has answered us in
every instance; I therefore feel to praise and
exalt His holy name for the blessings and fa-
fors to His people Israel."
[Column 3]
	On the 28th, he says, "J. B. Backenstos
came to Brother Goddard's (as we were then
concealed) saying to us that Major Warren
wished to have an interview with the Twelve.
Accordingly at three p.m. Brother Brigham
and myself met the following at Dr. Richard's:
Major Warren, Captains Turner and Morgan.
During our interview John Taylor, George A.
Smith, A. Lyman, also J. Backenstos were
present.  Major Warren wished to know
whether we were willing that writs should be
served on the citizens of this place.  President
Young told him we were perfectly willing so
far as he and brethren were concerned, as he
and his brethren did not hold any official office
in the city or county.  That we only governed
the matters pertaining to the Church.  This
seemed to calm his apprehensions.  They left
us at five p.m. with pretty good feelings."
	Father wrote, "Wednesday, 29th.  We spent
part of the day at Brother Rockwood's.  Many
of the brethren came in for counsel. Joseph
Herring (the Lamanite) was one, about going
home west to his tribe.	*	*	This night
I returned home as the posse had left with
their writs.  Thursday, 30th.  Bishop Miller
and Brother Burdell returned from Spring-
field, whither they had been to visit the Gov-
ernor."
	Saturday, November 2nd, he speaks of El-
der Hyde preaching upon the subject of trust-
ing in God.  "Elder Taylor followed and gave
an excellent exhortation much in the same
strain.  I also spoke and counselled the Saints
to pay their tithing, etc.  In the afternoon I
met the first emigration company and came
to a partial organization, and gave much coun-
sel and instruction on our intended removal."
	At this time President Young was sick and
unable to attend to business.  On the 7th
father mentions a large raft of pine lumber,
which came down the river, and he says, "On
the 10th Brigham Young, Bishop Miller and
I borrowed six hundred dollars and paid
Brother Russell, as he had bought one hundred
thousand feet of pine boards.  This will finish
the Temple."
	On the 11th he says, "The young people had
a dance at the Mansion--J. B. Backenstos
and myself took supper with them by the re-
quest of Benjamin Johnson--from thence I re-
turned home."
	I remember this occasion as a very pleasant
one, and the mention of it reminds me of an in-
cident connected with it.  My father was quite
a favorite with the sheriff, and I being there
with him he requested the privilege of taking
me to supper.  He also invited me to dance,
and being the guest he was invited to lead out
at the opening of the ball.  During the dance,
at each rest of "the light fantastic toe,"  I was
entertained with the rehearsal of what he
seemed to view as a wonderful night dream, or
vision he called it, and gave me his interpreta-
tion of it.  But I was rather young and gay,
and could scarcely appreciate or view it in the
same light  that he did--especially as coming
from that quarter; besides, being in the midst
of delightful quadrille, that with the thril-
ling music of the band was far more to my
taste, and much more exhilarating, than was
the subject upon which he seemed determined
to dwell.  Sheriff Backenstoss was a friend
(no doubt) raised up by the Lord to favor His
people at that critical time.  His resolutions,
which he expressed to my father, even if they
were made in good faith, were spoken too
loudly, as he did not hold long to them.  I be-
lieve that Satan is ever present to take down
notes, and he soon learns our weak points; we
should therefore put a double guard upon our
lips, and when we vow we ought to say, The
Lord helping me, or as said an ancient Apos-
tle, "If the Lord wills we should live, and do
this or that."
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 187


LOVE'S BIRTH.

It had lain for years, like a frozen thing,
	In my soul's remotest deep. 
I drifted through life with a careless heart,
	Nor dreamed of the force alseep.

*		*		*		*		*		*

The storm was flown, and o'er the scene
	The moon's soft impulse glowed,
Casting o'er beach and shadowed hill
	It's silvered wreath untold.

The grassy path was smooth, was fair,
	That led us to the strands—
With restless arms the sea leaped up
	And smote the quivering sands.

A gentle touch—my wrap was laid
	Around me soft and warm;
And standing thus, your arm was staid
	Around my quiet form.

Oh! something stirs within my heart—
	Full, palpitating life.
Swift quickening throbs my every pulse
	With expectation rife.

You raise my lips to yours—my soul
	With passion throes is torn—
But with the lingering caress
	Behold! my love is born.


BLESSINGS.

A LOVING TRIBUTE FROM LULA.

Blessings! Blessings! This we repeat:
From thy silver crowned head to the soles of thy feet,
On thy head, which hath weathered the storms and the
	heat,
With the prophets of God in their exiled retreat;
Thine eyes which have turned not from hardships and
	toil,
To view thy lost treasures, thine enemies spoil,
Thy cheeks which have glowed with the spirit of light,
From Him in whose blood are thy garments washed
	white:
Thy lips which have valiantly heralded truth,
In the scorners proud face, since the days of thy youth;
Thy neck, which hath bent not in servitude mean,
To the foes of thy God, howe'er threat'ning the scene.
Thy arms and thy shoulders, thy lungs and thy heart,
Thy body entire—yes, every part,
Be blessed and renewed, and strengthened to-day,
And with thee continue these blessings alway,
To bless thee, our sister, our mother, and friend,
Our voices and hearts here in harmony blend;
And thousands besides, whom thy goodness hath blest,
Will never forget thee, and sure is thy rest.
'Mong the jewels which Jesus will "make up" and claim
We shall see thy dear face, we shall read thy loved
	name.
Now, for all that thy soul can desire we pray,
With "many bright happy returns of the day,"
	September 7th, 1882.


ADDRESSED. 

TO, SISTER BATHESHEBA W. SMITH ON HER
BIRTHDAY, MAY 3RD, 1883.

	Blessings be upon thee my sister, on this
the return of thy natal day; may blessings of
every kind be multiplied upon thee from this
day henceforth. Blessings be upon thee for
thy labors of love, adminstered to thy sisters in
holy places! Blessings be upon thee for thy
faithfulness in all the walks of life; like every
true Saint of God thou hast had sore trials,
but hast borne them meekly, and with calm en-
durance; thy spirit has bent as the willow to the
stream, and the spirit of our God has brooded
over thee, and He has sent His angels to watch
over thee, and to comfort and sustain thee;
thou hast realized their presence by the intui-
tion of thine own spirit, and the whisperings of
the Eternal! Thou hast been blest with the
friendship of the servants of God, and of thy
sisters, handmaids of the same. And to-day
we see thee standing like one of the handmaids


of old—erect, healthy, and with a countenance
bright and smiling with the reflex of the spirit
of thy Father—God! Long dear Sister may
you so stand, to bless and instruct your sisters
by your sweet words and, more—by your exam-
ple. 
	I need not say God bless you, for you bear
the impress of  His blessing on your person
and your habitation. Till you pass behind  the 
veil may you retain the same, is the prayer of 
your Sister,
	HANNAH T. KING.
	May 3rd, 1883, 17th Ward.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S VOICE.

	As a Relief Society, the sisters here are try-
ing to do as well as they can in our scattered
condition.   We meet once a month and are
united in doing good, so far as it lies in our
power.   We have a Primary Association, and
the children take an interest in coming together.
They meet once in two weeks. We endeavor to
teach them the principles of the Gospel; I have
had a great experience in this Church. I heard
the Gospel in the State of New York, when ten
years old, the first sermon that was preached my
father and mother believed, and went forward
into the waters of baptism, January, 1832. The
next month, February, myself and sister were
baptized.   We gathered with the Saints in
Kirtland, and shared in their persecutions.   I
had the privilege of hearing the Prophet
Joseph speak almost every Sunday.  I was pres-
ent at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple,
when the power of God was manifested to such
a great degree.   The hymn composed for the
occasion "The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing,"  was indeed most appropriate, and I
thought I never heard anything so impressive,
and indeed that hymn always carries with it a
wonderful power whenever it is sung in the
congregation of the Saints. In the Temple the
gifet of toungs and prophecy was very power-
fully poured out.  It was a time of rejoicing.
I knew Brother Joseph to be a prophet of God,
when I think upon the trying scenes he had to
pass through in Ohio, Missouri and Nauvoo,
and at last to be slain by the hands of his ene-
mies, it causes many reflections and brings
back vividly many memories of the past.   I
was at the meeting when Sidney Rigdon
called on the Saints to choose a guardian, and
announced himself as the man for the position,
and when Brigham Young came on to the
stand and spoke, I thought the Prophet Joseph
had been resurrected, and I arose to my feet
and looked, I could scarcely believe it was
Brigham Young, he looked and spoke so much
like Joseph Smith.  I had no doubt then
who was the right man to lead the Church;
I knew Brigham Young was the right man.
I feel thankful the Lord has not forsaken or
forgotton his people at the present time, but
has given revelation through President Taylor.
If we will humble ourselves and honor the
preisthood, God will honor us, and we will
receive blessings at his hands. I know the Lord
will bless us if we keep his commandments.
	My dear sisters, if there are any of you
that do not believe in plural marriage, go with
an honest heart, and ask the Lord to make
known to you his mind and will concerning
this principle. I was once as unbelieving as any
one, and sometimes spoke against the principle,
though I knew the Prophet Joseph had more
wives.   I said if I could know it was a true
principle I would not speak evil of it, and I
do know my own heart condemned me when-
ever I spoke against it.  The next September,
after the Prophet Joseph was killed, I was very
sick, and I asked the Lord one night to show
me if I should live or die.  That night a 
heavenly messenger came and talked with me,
and this holy being told me I should live, and if I

[Column 2]
had faith enough I should be well in the morn-
ing.  This messenger informed me that the prin-
ciple of celestial marriage was a true principle;
and many things were told me for my consola-
tion.  From that time I ever had a doubt
about the truth of that principle, for I knew I
had conversed with a heavenly messenger, and
that he had told me the truth, for I was healed
by the power of God.  I arose in the morning
well, and went about my work, and I had been
very ill for three weeks, not expected to live.
I always felt thankful that the Lord had shown
me the truth of that holy principle.  We as
Latter-day Saints have great reason to rejoice
that we live in this day, when light has been
revealed from heaven to redeem mankind.
Wishing the EXPONENT every success, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel
	MARIAH PULSIPHER BURGESS.
	Thurber, Piute Co., March 12th 1883.


A JOYFUL TIME

	In honor and respect to Sister Elizabeth
P. Williams, a noble and much beloved mother
in Israel, and the respected President of the
Relief Society in St. John's, a party was
given by the sisters of the Relief Society, 
March 15th 1883; on that day she was sixty-
three years old.  About thirty persons as-
sembled at her residence, a bountiful dinner
was prepared, and all enjoyed themselves.  
After dinner the time was well spent in sing-
ing, dancing, etc..  Sister Williams was pre-
sented with a nice rocking chair, and other
nice presents were made.  Later in the even-
ing supper was prepared, and several brethren
joined the sisters at the table, and afterwards
the evening was pleasantly spent; songs by
Bro. Hill, Bro. J. James, Sister Jane An-
thony and Lewis Lewis; then singing by all
in the room.  Speech from President Lewis
in praise of Sister Williams.  The President
of the Relief Society expressed herself grate-
ful for the honor and good feelings.  All
were happy and comforted, and it was an oc-
casion never to be forgoten.  
	ANNA J. JOSEPHSON, 
	Secretary.


The first annual meeting of the Deseret
Hospital Association was held May 12 in the
Council House in this City. Report of the past
year's labors was presented which will be pub-
lished next issue.

	"THE WOLF AND THE LION."—Philadel-
phia, Pa., April 27th, 1883. A new phrase was
used in the convention to-day by one of two la-
dies from St Louis,who, in behalf of the branch
leagues of which they are members, presented
the one $850 and the other $500 to the Na-
tional League. Said the latter: "The ladies
propose to keep the wolf from the door while
the men are keeping away the lion." This clev-
erly turned phrase caught the fancy of the con-
vention at once, and the applause was deafening
as she took her seat. The spectacle of ladies'
sitting as members of a convention is a novel
one, but is rather pleasing. The delegates of
the gentle sex have taken a great interest in
the proceedings, though, except in voting they
have borne no active part. Those who have
spoken have acquitted themselves like veter-
ans, and, altogether, the success attending the
admission on equal terms of women as dele-
gates is a strong argument for their side of the
female suffrage question. They have been
treated with great respect, and even with ten-
der regard, by the other members of the con-
vention, and no doubt the proceedings have
been more orderly and decorous than they
would have been had they not been conducted
under the eyes of the ladies on the platform at
all the sessions.				Boston Herald.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, * * Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 15, 1883.


[Column 1]

WOMEN SELF-SUPPORTING

	Step by step women are advancing in indus-
trial pursuits, and becoming more helpful in
the great battle of life, the struggle for a tempor-
al existance, termed in common parlance, "get-
ting a living." Even women of refinement and
possessed of superior attainments do not feel
quite satisfied to be dependent altogether upon
the exertions of the "men folks," of the house-
hold, but intelligent cultivated women step out
into avenues of employment and actually earn
money of their own. It is true that woman is
the homekeeper as well as the housekeeper, and
that her hands must beautify and adorn, and
her sweet face and quiet, gentle ways make
home the most delightful place in the world to
its inmates by performing all the duties inci-
dental to such a position, and whenever it is
possible, it seems only consistent that she should
be relieved of all pecuniary cares, but it fre-
quently happens that the wheels of life's lumber-
ing coach get clogged, and impediments often
lie in the pathway of prosperity, and if the wife,
the help meet can assist in removing any of
these obstructions, so much the better and easier
are they overcome. And there are instances
where heavier burdens fall on delicate, sensi-
tive, shrinking women, and find them totally
unprepared to lift up any burden; for imsfortune
comes to rich as well as poor, and not unfrequent-
ly women are left to work out the problem of
bread and butter, or depend upon the charity of
friends.
	How difficult for those who have never been
educated in the school of self-reliance, never
been disciplined in any regular habits of busi-
ness, perchance, not trained in methods of econ-
omy in performing labor. On such women
heavy indeed fall the burdens of self-support.
	The best way to better the condition of wo-
men in these respects is to make industrial oc-
cupations for women popular, and to elevate
labor, In order to do this, much must be done
by means of the press and the platform. It is
the opinion of many well-meaning people, and
those of good judgment too, that the ballot is to
be the great lever towards lifting women
into the higher and broader atmosphere of inde-
pendence, but granting that even, women need
the advantage of public expression through
newspapers and organizations of their own,
whereby they mutually educate and benefit
each other, to accomplish the necessary good.
There is no better method of communication
between people engaged in any public enterprise
than that of a newspaper, and until women
talk to each other freely in this way and ex-
press their views and feelings, no great, tangi-
ble change will take place in the advancement of

[Column 2]

the masses of women. And it must be a paper,
too, that will reach the hearts of the people.
Why should not women represent their own in-
terests in public print as well as in other direc-
tions, especially those who have the exercise of
the ballot? The Latter-day Saint women have
many good reasons for sustaining a paper of
their own. The several women's organizttions
that exist wherever the Latter-day Saints have
settled throughout the Rocky Mountain region,
and also in different parts of the United States
and in other countries, the British Isles, Scandi-
navia and the Swiss and German mission, the
Hawaiian Islands, New Zealand and Australia.
These require the medium of a newspaper to give
information and instruction on all matters per-
taining to the work in all its various details.  
The EXPONENT has now completed its eleventh
volume. The next number commences a new
volume and should real'y make a new era in its
circulation. It is said to be a good missionary
paper and a great benefit to the Elders of the
Church who are out in their fields of labor pro-
claiming the Gospel. We are in hopes that it
will be somewhat improved in appearance at
the commencement of the new volume.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"One Day in Utah" is the title of a little book
written by a French nobleman who recently
visited America, Vicomte d' Haussonville. It
has been translated into English by Leo Haef-
fell, of the Ogden Herald. It is a very neat lit-
tle pamphlet, and is a good work to send abroad.
The author has given in his own way what he
saw and heard, and his impressions in regard to
Utah and the "Mormons." The spirit of the
book is fair and genuine, which is always in fa-
vor of the truth. We congratulate Mr. Haef-
fel on his part of the work which has certainly
been well done.
	WE have on sale at this office "Bible Ques-
tions and Answers, by E. R. S. Smith," also
Primary Speakers, Numbers 1 and 2, each 25 cts.
per copy. The "Correspondence of Palestine
Tourists," and Poems of E. R. Snow—volume
1 and 2. These books are so cheap that every
home should have them on the table. We
have, also, cards for the Primary Association,
and the officers should take pains to see the As-
sociations supplied with them. The Alphabet
in Rhyme and Question cards, Numbers 1, 2
and 3—all one cent each. The Word of Wis-
dom, ten cents apiece.
	ASENATH A. ADAMS and Emma Green have
opened a Ladies Art Bazar on Kimball Block,
where they will be pleased to see customers
They will keep a great variety of ladies fancy
goods. They have the most improved methods
of stamping, including the indelible, which can
be used on the finest goods. They keep a full
stock of crewels, foreign and domestic, and Ger-
man wool for fancy embroidery, all the late
novelties in designs for needle work, all the new
and aesthetic colors in plushes and fancy goods.
The most elegant and magnificent flowers for
decorating—lilies, poppies, roses etc., call and ex-
amine their new goods; the ladies will be sure to
find something to please them in this handsome
line of fancy work and light goods. The ladies
have added to their establishment kid glove
cleaning, which is quite an item in this line. If
you want to see beautiful, fancy and ornamental
work, call at the Ladies Art Bazar, on Kimball
Block.
	ON Friday morning, September 27th, Sisters
Eliza R. S. Smith and Elizabeth Howard left
this city to attend the Conference of the Ladies
Associations at Morgan. On Saturday the Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Morgan Stake


was held in the new Stake House. The meet-
ings were excellent in every respect, and there
was a large attendance. Sunday afternoon the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Assoca-
tion held their conference, the assembly being
very large indeed. On Monday the Conference
of the Primary Associations was assembled
with another full house, the children showing
to good advantage the training they had re-
ceived. The Y. L. M. I. A. also held a fair on
Monday, which was very creditable to all par-
ties connected therewith. Sister Eliza R. S.
Smith spoke at each of these meetings, and al-
though at her time of life many ladies would
only sit in a corner and knit, she was buoyant
in spirit, her voice clear and strong, and her
teachings rich in wisdom and understanding.
Sister Smith is indeed a wonderful woman.
Few indeed at her age could travel from place to
place and speak two and three, and sometimes
four times in one day as she does.


THE UNITY CLUB. 

	The Deseret Hospital gladly acknowledge
another liberal contribution from the Unity
Club of $200, the proceeds of the entertainment
given in the Salt Lake Theatre, Monday even-
ing, April 5th, after all the expenses were set-
tled. The Unity Club have certainly given
positive proof of their financial ability, as well
as talent and tact in pleasing the public and
giving full value for money received. It is
usual in entertainments or fairs for the benefit
of charitable institutions to charge extra for ad-
mission, and at fairs to ask fabulous prices for
articles on sale.
	This has not been the case with the Unity
Club, the public in every instance have been
pleased, and have only paid the usual prices.
Bishop H. B. Clawson has worked faithfully to
assist the ladies in these matters. An associa-
tion which has only been six months organized
to be able to donate $700 made by their own
exertions, is something exceptional indeed.
	The Y. L., Y. M. M. I. and Primary Associa-
tions of Spanish Fork, combined forces and
talent and gave a concert recently, and made a
donation of part of the proceeds ($15.00) to the
Deseret Hospital. They were ably assisted in
the management of the affair by Brother Wil-
liam Jones of that place, a man noted for his
musical ability.


ANNUAL REUNION.

	THE yearly meeting of the Y. L. Association
of the First Ward, was held on April 25th, 1883,
A number of the leading Sisters were present,
Sisters E. R. S. Smith, M. I. Horne, M. Y.
Dougal, Margaret P. Young, M. A. Freeze.
	A dinner was prepared for them by the offi-
cers and members of the Association at Prest.
Sarah Graham's. Bishop Joseph Warburton
being present; it was a very pleasant time, all
seemed to enjoy themselves. After dinner all
went to the meeting house. where many more
were waiting. President Sarah Graham presi-
ded over the meeting. Some excellent instruc-
tions were given to the young and old, which
will never be forgotten. Counselor A. Steel
made a few good remarks, the Bishop closed
with some good counsel to all—an excellent
spirit prevailed.		LOTTIE E. ARGUST,
								Secretary.


FORGIVENESS.

	There is no virtue in the human heart which
so adorns the lips and character of an individual
as forgiveness. For proof of this, look at the
example of the Savior, who, while suffering on


the cross at the hands of his enemies, cried out
in his anguish of soul, "Father, forgive them,
they know not what they do." Shall man; cre-
ated but little lower than the angels, follow the
example of Him in whom there was "no guile,"
or shall he debase himself by failing to do so?
	So apt are we to stray from the path of duty
that we find ourselves often called upon to for-
give the faults of those who do us an injury,
and unless we forgive hatred will reign triumph-
ant in our hearts. But if we forgive those who
offend us we obey the injunctions of Christ, and
contribute to the enjoyment of the offender,
and advance our own happiness and hopes of
forgiveness.
	If slander is hurled to crush our hope we
should remember "to err is human," and freely
forgive the offender. The man with a revenge-
ful spirit is in a perpetual storm, he is his own
tormentor, and his guilt, of course, is his pun-
ishment; whether he is at home or abroad, in
company or alone, it still engrosses his thoughts,
and as Providence has ordained that whosoever
meditates against the peace of another shall
even in the design lose his own.
	My advice would be to banish all spiteful and
revengeful thoughts, for a spirit of revenge is the
very spirit of the devil. Let him whose soul is
darkened with malice walk through a field clad
with verdure and flowers, and nothing will
appear beautiful to him, but on the other hand
to the person whose heart is full of forgiveness
every thing appears beautiful. Hoping we will
all cultivate a spirit of forgiveness and charity
towards one another, I remain, etc,
	M. A. WELCH.
South Morgan.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 189﻿


YOUNG LADIES AND MATRIMONY.

	I sometimes think some of our young girls
do not fully understand the important step they
are taking when they give their hand to be
joined in wedlock. The best women have an in-
stinctive wish to marry a man superior to them-
selves, which I think, is as it should be, for a
woman that marries a man inferior to herself,
wrongs herself, her family, and her whole life,
for he will most likely drag her to his level. In
the first place, one should marry for love; res-
pect is very well, and that we should have and
hold, bui it does not answer in place of affection.
	Girls, do not marry a man that is naturally
cruel, if he will wantonly torture a poor dumb
cat or dog, fly from him as you would from a
snake. If his nature delights in torture he will
not spare his wife and children. Do not marry
a fop; there is in such a character nothing that
commands respect. Look with disdain on what
are called fast young men, those who frequent
the saloon to satisfy an unnatural thirst for fire
water, and those filled with conceit, who talk
large and use either vulgar phrases or oaths.
Those who wear dashing finery and look with
disdain on others who toil in some honest occu-
pation.
	It is folly for young women to think they can
reclaim the ones they love. I say to young
maidens, be warned in time; can you reclaim
those who have not the power to reclaim them-
selves? I say not often. Beware, for oft the
deepest rascal wears the finest clothes and has
the smoothest tongue. Before you begin to
scold me for this impious thing, first look
around and see if it is not true. Young ladies,
as life is precious to you, and since you value it
highly, take no chances; better than marry a
young man whom you know to drink a little
now and then, (for his friends sake) wait a
while longer. 
	To think of regaining a young man from in-
temperance is simply folly to him; your efforts


to keep him from the cup would be like dam-
ming up a river with a feather, like stopping a
hurricane with a tin whistle. There are many
things I would like to mention, but space will
not permit. In our next paper, perhaps, I will
give my opinion on what kind of a young man
a good girl should marry.
	MARTHA HEINER. 
The EVENING STAR, South Morgan.


TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

TO OUR SISTER ARMEDA.

The following expression of affectionate regard was
presented to Mrs. Armeda Snow Young on her departure
on a mission to the Sandwich Islands with her husband. 

	We, the officers and members of the Y. L. M.
I. Association of the Third Ward of Brigham 
City, feel to tender our thanks and appreciation
of your interest in our behalf, and we do ac-
knowledge that we have enjoyed your efforts in
doing good in our midst, therefore we ask you
to accept this ring as a small token of "true
friendship."
	We present it to you because we LOVE you,
and wish you to remember, when you are in a
far distant land, that, no matter what comes,
there are still "true friends at home."
	May you go out into the world as a messenger
of "peace," that wherever you go that heavenly
influence will secure for you a band of true
friends We ask our Father to bless Sister Ar-
meda and guide her barge through the voyage
of this life; may your heart always be full of
"Faith, Hope and Charity," that you ever shall
keep in sight the bright "Beacon light of
Truth."
	We bid you "Farewell" for a short season; and
when you return, we pray, may not one link be
broken in the chain of friendship, but more so,
do we sincerely hope, that we may ALL prove
worthy to meet in the "grand reunion" in
Father's Home, where we shall meet those
"Loved ones who have gone before."


TESTIMONIAL TO BISHOP CRANE.

	"Honor to whom honor is due." The good
people of Herriman celebrated the 52nd birth-
day of their Bishop, James Crane, in a very
suitable manner, expressive of the high appre-
ciation in which he is held; the people of his
ward feel that he is indeed a father and a friend.
He has labored faithfully to lead the young peo-
ple of his ward in the ways of the Lord, that
they may attain to honor. An excellent ad-
dress was prepared for the occasion, by Sister
Jane Bowen and was read at the party. The
sisters of the ward contributed the means and
presented the Bishop with a nice gold watch
and chain, which he received with happiness
and gratitude. The party was held in the
schoolhouse and about two hundred and fifty
people sat down to a sumptuous dinner. Sister
Bowen also composed a poem that was read and
highly appreciated. There were several
speeches made, and much good feeling ex-
pressed, calculated to happify and encourage the
Bishop. The evening was occupied in dancing
and social enjoyment.


DIED.

	Little Heber Kimball, son of Orson F. and
Zina S. Whitney, died in Provo, April 20th,
1883, from measels. He was born June 3rd, 1882,
and though his sojourn on earth was short, the
little one was entwined around the hearts of all
who knew him, and was a source of much com-
fort to his mother, having been born after th


departure of her husband, who is still fulfilling a
mission in Europe.
	"A lovely bud, so soft so fair,
		Called hence by earthly doom
	Just sent to show, how sweet a flower
		In Paradise would bloom."

	Died, in this city, April 2nd, 1883, of consumption,
Caroline Iverson, beloved wife of Soren Iverson, born
October 4th 1836. A pure spirit has left us, one well
prepared to dwell in a holier sphere, where she now
shines among the jewels of that glorious court on high.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	We the sisters of the Relief Society of the Second
Ward, Salt Lake City, unanimously adopt the following
Resolutions:
	Whereas, it has pleased an alwise Providence to call
from our midst by the hand of death, our beloved sister
and friend, Therefore,
	Resolved, that we do recognize in the death of our
Sister Caroline Iverson, the loss of an able, efficient and
faithful member of our Society.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and emula-
tion of us all. 
	Resolved, that we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband, children, relatives and
friends, in the loss of a loving wife, affectionate mother
and a true friend.
	Resolved, that these Resolutions be spread upon the
records of the Relief Society of the Second Ward, and
that a copy of them be sent to the bereaved husband,
also that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
					SARAH WHEELER, President.
					SARAH MCGREGAR, Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM

	Sister Cynthia Durfee died at her home in Beaver
Dams, Box Elder Co., Utah, February the 20th, 1883,
aged seventy three years, two months and twenty days.
Deceased was born in the State of Vermont, and was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, in the year 1830, and has passed through a great
many trying scenes in the Church, but she has ever been
true and faithful to the Gospel, never doubting its truth.
She was the wife of Francillo Durfee, one of the Mor-
mon Battalion. Long may her good example live in the
hearts of her children and friends.
	Resolutions of respect on the death of Sister Cynthia
Durfee, adopted at a meeting of the Relief Society of
Beaver Dams, held March 1st, 1883.
	Whereas, God in his wisdom has seen fit to call from
our midst our much loved and worthy teacher, and, 
	Whereas, her labors in our Association have been
faithfully performed, we feel that some proper recogni-
tion of her virtues be recognized among us, therefore
be it,
	Resolved, that we as members of the Relief Society
do deeply mourn the loss of so valuable and faithful a
co-laborer.
	Resolved, that we condole with each other in this be-
reavement, and tender this token of respect and love to
her relatives and friends in this affliction.
	Resolved, that we present a copy of these resolutions
to her relatives, and have the same published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and keep a copy of the same on
our record.	SARAH A. DURFEE,
			President Relief Society.
Collinston, Utah.


DESERET HOSPITAL, May 12th, 1883.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I wish to express my sincere and heartfelt
gratitude to my numerous friends for their
kind attention and sympathy manifested
towards me during my sojourn in the Deseret
Hospital, where I have been made very com-
fortable.
	I feel, in my heart, to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in the affliction which has over-
taken me, and am assured it will result in a
blessing, for I have learned by a long expe-
rience under the "New and Everlasting Cove-
nant" that all things are overruled for good to
those who love God. I know it is good to
serve the Lord, and I desire to devote my life
to His service. Nor do I forget my dear rela-
tives and friends in St. George, where the acci-


dent took place, after which I remained there
four weeks at the residence of my brother in-
law, Mr. R. Bently. Friends were on hand to
render what aid and comfort they could. The
hope was entertained that it was only a sprain
and would take time to regain strength. By
a surgical examination it proves to be a bro-
ken bone which will require an apparatus (sent
for to New York) to wear to strengthen the
limb and hold it in position to enable me to walk.
	I expect to remain at the Hospital until the
article named shall arrive, which will be, prob-
ably, two weeks longer. In the hope of again
being permitted to be among my friends, the
Saints of God.
			Respectfully,
						M. A. P. HYDE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PROVO, UTAH CO.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake of Zion, held in
the Provo meeting house, March 2nd, 1883.
On the stand, President Margaret T. Smoot,
Counselor Mary John, Zina D. H. Young and
several of the brethren. Conference opened
with the usual exercises of singing and prayer, 
reading of minutes and reports, etc. Presi-
dents of the various societies gave verbal re-
ports, and also bore their testimonies to the
truth of the latter-day work.
	President M. T. Smoot said, "I feel happy
to meet with you again. I wish to hear from
all the Presidents of this Stake. Sister Zina
is with us to-day, and she belongs to us when
she is here. My heart is filled with blessings
for you; your reports express the diligence and
good works you have accomplished, and I pray
that we may all continue faithful." Bishop
Tanner said it was a satisfaction to hear the
sisters speak; in the pathway of duty there was
safety; exhorted parents to be diligent with
their families in training them aright, for the
future of their lives depended in a great mea-
sure upon the parents. Exhorted all to be
humble and prayerful; spoke of the duties of
the members of the Relief Societies, and said
we can lay the foundation for our children to
build upon. May God help us to have His
holy spirit. After singing and benediction, 
conference adjourned till two p.m. Meeting
opened with singing and prayer. President
Smoot spoke a few words expressive of her
thankfulness for the interest the brethren and
sisters took in her behalf; felt to wish to live to
do all the good she could. Sister Zina D. H.
Young said, "If Sister Smoot should lay off
this mortal coil it would only be to rest tem-
porally and work for us behind the veil; our
loved ones love us after they leave us just
as much better as they are better; when our
friends leave us they are only a little ahead of
us." Spoke of the spirit of unity and love, of
prayer, of faith and obedience to all the com-
mands of God. Counseled mothers to send
their children to the Primaries. Spoke of the
principle of celestial marriage, and counseled
the sisters never to oppose it, but ask God for a 
testimony for themselves. Bore her testimony
to the holy feeling prevalent in the Temple at
St. George, of the purity, the beauty, the com-
fort there. The Spirit of the Lord was with us
throughout the whole conference to a great de-
gree. Sister Sarah Roberts, of Goshen, spoke
in the gift of tongues, and Sister Young gave
the interpretation. * * * Sister John
spoke of her feelings in the Temple at St.
George; advised the sisters to attend to the
work for the dead. Spoke of her belief in
celestial marriage and prayed that all might
understand it; prayed God to bless Sister
Smoot, that her life might be prolonged to do
much good. After singing, and benediction by 

[Column 2]

Bishop Johnson; conference adjourned for
three months.	CAROLINE DANIELS,
	Secretary.

SNAKE RIVER. 

	CEDAR, BUTTE, March 30th, 1883. 
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	After reading the WOMAN'S EXPONENT I 
feel impressed to write a few lines to put in it.
I think it a very excellent paper, one which
every mother should have in her house, for her
daughters and herself to read. It is a great
help to me, as I am President of the Y. L. M.
I. A., and think it ought to be patronized by
our sisters, as it has been printed for their 
benefit.
	On the 21st of December we were organ-
ized by President J. R. Pool, with the follow-
ing officers: Serreta Pool, President; Mary and
Annie Stephens, Counselors, Susie Pool Secre-
tary; Emily Pool, Assistant Secretary; Chris-
tena Pool, Treasurer. We have about twenty-
five members enrolled; though our numbers are
small we are striving to prepare ourselves to 
become useful members in the kingdom of
God. We realize that we have a great work
to perform, and unless we are diligent we can-
not expect to gain the reward, which our
Father has promised to his faithful children.
Our meetings are very interesting, and we are
all doing our part to help them along, mean-
while remembering, practice makes perfect. I
think it is a good thing we can have these
meetings, they are a great benefit to the young;
and should we not be thankful that we have
such Sisters as Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D. 
H. Young, and other sisters who travel from
place to place organizing the sisters? I think we
ought. I hope they may live a good many
years yet, and have health and strength, and I 
hope we may sometimes have them visit us up
here in our far away homes.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, and the
success of the EXPONENT, I remain your sister
in the Gospel, SERRETA POOL,
	President. 

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I can say our Primary and Y. L. Association
in this stake of Zion are prospering. Myself 
in company with several of the Stake officers
of Primary and Y. L., also of the R. S., visited
Mona by invitation, February 17th. Met with
the Primary, at Sister Elinor Somervilles at
one p.m. Besides sisters, there were several of
the brethren present, also President Paxman. 
	Singing. Prayer by Bro. McConlie. Sing-
ing. The exercises of the children were well
rendered follwed by addresses by Sisters H. 
Grover, A. Goldsbrough, M. Pitchforth and E. 
Somerville, Brothers L. A. Baily, Hawes, 
Pixton and President Paxman. Apostle Teas-
dale and wife came in, he spoke a few minutes
of blessings to the children. The meeting was
then given over to the Young Ladies and ad-
dressed by Elder Teasdale upon our duties as
an Improvement Association, said we should
strive to become good housekeepers, and that
life is just what we make it.
	President Paxman said, There are many du-
ties binding upon man, so also upon woman. 
We are the children of God, we should strive
to know our duties. Be careful not to grieve
the Holy Spirit, for there is no happiness in
wrong doing. After dismissing we adjourned
to Bro. Newtons to celebrate the sixty-seventh
birthday of President Eliza Somerville, who
was led in by her first Counselor, where her
friends had preceeded her, she having received
no intimation was genuinely surprised. She
was first presented with a handsomely framed
picture of Apostle Teasdale by himself. Sec-
cond by a splendid picture of Sister E. R. S.
Smith, from the Mona Relief Society with an
appropriate speech by her first Counselor Eli

[Column 3]

nor Somerville, also several small presents
from individual friends, followed by a most
bountiful repast. The evening was spent pleas-
antly in singing and appropriate speeches from
nearly everyone present, numbering fifty per-
sons.	H. GROVER,
	Acting Secretary. 

Y. L., M. I. A. OF GOSHEN, 
DEAR EDITOR:
	I write you a few items in regard to our as-
sociation. It has been seven years since the
young ladies of this place were organized.
Ever since that time this association has been
growing in interest, as well as in numbers, un-
til it has reached nearly every young lady in
the place; and its influence is felt by all.
	Hattie J. Higginson, who has been president
ever since the organization, has resigned, and
the following persons were sustained as officers, 
and set apart by Bishop Price and counselors.
Mary Ann Gardner, President; Persis Roberts
and Rohda Gourley, Counselors; Lucy P. Tay-
lor Secretary; S. J. Poulson, Treasurer; A. M.
Litchfield, Millicent Jameson, Rachel Edwards,
Emma Morgans and Mamie Price, Assistant
Secretaries.
	Adopted by the association.
	Resolutions of respect to our beloved presi-
dent, Hattie J. Higginson, and her first Coun-
selor, Christina Higginson, on their departure
to Idaho.
	We the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
feel to regret the departure of our president
and counselor, whom we love so dearly. It is
now seven years since we were first organized,
and we can truly say we have never had occa-
sion for a jar during this time. While we were
weak together we were led along step by step
by their good example and able teachings.
	Whereas, they are going to help build up
the waste places in Zion, may their labors
prove as beneficial to the youth with whom
they will associate as they have been to us, only
in a wider sphere. And may they find as many
loving and sincere friends as those they leave
behind. May their wise counsel and kindness
sink deep into our hearts to be a guide to us
through future life.
	Whereas, they have embraced the law of
celestial marriage they have faithfully per-
formed their duties in that regard, and their
lives in that order are truly worthy of imita-
tion. We deeply regret the loss of such an
estimable President and Counselor; but hope
our loss will be their gain. We trust we may 
be able to find those who will be able to fill
their places as honorably as they have done.
We will ever pray for their success and happi-
ness.	LUCY P. TAYLOR,
	Secretary.
Goshen, U. T. April 12th, 1883.

EMERY STAKE.
	Report of the organization of the Relief So-
cieties and Primary Associations of Emery
Stake of Zion.
	Relief Society of Castle Dale Ward, organ-
ized August 24th, 1882, under the direction
of the President of the Stake, assisted by Presi-
dent Anna M. Larsen and Counselor Joana
Childs. Anna M. Larsen, President; Hannah
Seely and Harriet Wilcox; Counselors; Lucinda 
Jeffs, Secretary; Violet Wilcox, Assistant Sec-
retary; Ellen Miller, Treasurer; Caroline Lar-
sen, head teacher; and six visiting teachers;
Officers, thirteen; Members, twenty-five.
	Primary Association of Castle Dale Ward,
organized January 6th, 1883. Stena Olsen, 
President; Caroline Larsen and Annena M.
Justisen, Counselors; Sarah Seely, Secretary;
Franklin P. Larsen, Assistant Secretary; Mens
Petersen, Treasurer; Officers, six; Members,
twenty-nine.
	Relief Society of Orangeville Ward, organ-
ized August 29th, 1882, Caroline Curtis, Presi-


dent; Sarah A. Fulmer and Ellen Robertsen,
Counselors; Joanna P. Curtis, Secretary; Eliza-
beth Reid, Treasurer; Officers, twelve; Mem-
bers, thirty-seven.
	Primary Association of Moab Ward, organ-
ized February 21st, 1883, by President C. G.
Larsen and Council. Betsy Burnham, Presi-
dent; Laura Taylor and Sarah A. Stewart,
Counselors; Eunice Pritchett, Secretary;
George F. Burnham, Assistant Secretary; Ro-
sanna, Stewart, Treasurer; Officers, six; Mem-
bers, fifty two.
	Primary Association of Huntington Ward,
organized November 25th, 1882, by President
Anna M. Larsen. Margaret Crandall, Presi-
dent; Emma Leonard and Laura Neilson,
Counselors; John F. Wakefield, Secretary;
Hannah Johnson, Assistant Secretary; Susan
J. Wakefield, Treasurer; Officers, six; Mem-
bers, seventy-three.
	President C. G. Larsen and Counselors, also
the Bishops and Counselors of their respective
wards, were present at most of the organiza-
tions, and blessed and set apart the officers.
			ANNA M. LARSEN, President.
			ANNA E. SEELY, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 191


SANDWICH ISLANDS.

LAIE, SANDWICH ISLANDS.
DEAR EDITOR:
I take the liberty of writing a few lines to
you at the present time for the purpose of giv-
ing you a brief account of the condition and
labors of the Relief Societies which are now
organized on the different islands.
There are five on this island (Oahu), four
on Hawaii, three on Kauai, and two on Maui,
making fourteen in all. Reports were read
from all at our Conference, with the exception
of two; the verbal reports given by the Presi-
dents who were present and also from the El-
ders who have been traveling and laboring
among them for the past six months, are very
encouraging indeed.	
I send you the minutes of our Conference,
tsken by the secretary, a native sister, and
translated into English by President Partridge;
the report may not be correct in every respect,
as the secretaries are all inexperienced in
things of this kind, but they are willing to be
taught, and anxious to be instructed in all
their duties, that they may understand what is
required of them; they are energetic in their
labors, and very liberal in donating; they have
a very pleasant way of assisting each other;
when they wish to perform some work and
have not the means to do so, they invite the
other Societies to assist them.
The Society at Laie is intending to build a
house for the accommodation of the poor who
have not comfortable homes, and have called
upon the other societies to assist in raising the
necessary means, and have now on hand the
sum of $149, and promise of more as soon as
there is an opportunity to send it. Great
efforts are being made by the Elders to per-
suade the people to forsake their evil ways.
					S. L. PARTRIDGE.

 The Presidents and members of the Relief
Societies of the Hawaiian Islands assembled in
the Meeting House, Mrs. S. L. Partridge, with
her Counselors, presiding. The Secretary read
the reports of the different Societies organized
on the islands. The Presidents reported the
condition of the Societies. Their faithfulness
was manifest, and also their zeal in assisting
the poor and those who are weak, and the or-
phan children in the Church. The societies
are gathering a sum of money for the purpose
of building a house at Laie to accommodate
the poor in the Church of Jesus Christ on the
Hawaiian Islands.
The President said, she was pleased to meet
with the Relief Societies, “we have heard, the
reports, which show your faithfulness in this
work. The Society here at Laie is very active
at all times in assisting the poor, and so it is,
no doubt, with all the societies. May the
Lord bless you all. Amen.” 
The names of the officers of the general
organization are as follows: Mrs. S. L. Part-
ridge, President; S. G. Anderson, L. Kaaha-
nui and Nalia, Counselors; and L. K. Lahaole,
Secretary.
 The officers of all the Societies were sus-
tained. President Edward Partridge said,
Let all who hear these words arouse them-
selves; this is right. Your President is pleased
with your report, which she designs to con-
dense and send to the Rocky Mountains, that
it may be published in the woman’s paper
there. The President of this branch Society
desired my permission to commence the erec-
tion of a house for the afflicted and destitute,
and the societies have responded quickly to let-
ters sent them, with money to assist. There-
fore, we will build a house according to our
means, and let us be awake to this work.
Never give way to the temptations of the devil.
It is the desire of the President to visit the
different islands to learn the condition of the
societies. Meeting was dismissed by prayer by
Elder Rhead.	L. K, LAHAOLE,
				  Secretary.
 Statistical and financial report of the several
branches of the Relief Society on the Hawaii-
an Islands for the year ending April 5th, 1883.
Number of members, October 6th, 1882, 250;
Died, 12; Removed, 21; Members added, 26;
Number of members, April 5th, 1883, 249.
On hand, October 5th, 1882, $297.17; Receipts
during the six months, $212.82; Amount dis-
bursed for poor, $93.50; For other purposes,
$112.20 On hand at date, $304.29. Names
of officers, Mrs. S. L. Partridge, President; J.
G. Anderson, L. Kaahanui and Nalia, Coun-
selors; L. R. Lahaole, Secretary. 
Laie, Oahu, April 5th, 1883.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

			ST. JOHNS, February 14th, 1883.
EDITORY EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps a short piece from St.
Johns might be read with interest by some of
your numerous readers; many of whom, we the
inhabitants of St. Johns, have been associated
with for years.  We often think of the good
meetings, Sunday School Unions and Primary
jubilees we used to attend in the large Taber-
nacle and Assembly Hall, at Salt Lake City.
And still when we think of those times of re-
joicing that are past, our hearts fill with joy,
and we seem again to hear the sweet voices of
thousands of children singing praises to God.
We, to some extent, are deprived of the bless-
ings and privileges which we used to enjoy
while living in Utah.  We do not have the
privilege of beholding the faces of those noble
women of Zion, and of hearing the soul en-
lightening instructions, which ever fall from
their lips, like drops of dew from heaven at
eve, on drooping flowers, which have stood all
day in the hot summer sun.  We do not have
the privilege of seeing them, and hearing their
voices now, but we hope ere long that they will
visit us in this far off country of Arizona,
which God has decreed should be built up and
inhabited by the Saints in these the latter days;
for this purpose we have been called upon to
leave our comfortable homes, friends and rela-
tives, and come to dwell in the wilds of Ari-
zona, among the red men and Mexicans. Do
we think our lot is hard?  No, we are young
and strong, fit subjects to undergo the trials
and hardships of building up a new country. 
We are the sons and daughters of those noble
men and women, who were driven from their
homes in Nauvoo and Illinois by the hands of

[Column 2]
the mob compelled to cross the Mississippi river
in the dead of Winter, while the cold merci-
less winds pierced their half clad bodies
through and through; after crossing the dreary
plains, they arrived at Salt Lake Valley, free
from mob violence, but not free from the pangs
of hunger and privations.  Many of them
died, tired and worn out with hardship; those
who survived were preserved by the hand  of
the Lord, for the purpose of establishing Zion
in  the Rocky Mountains.  We are their sons
and daughters, we have often heard them speak
of these trials and hardships; we have their his-
tories before us, and knowing of these things
we would be ashamed to shrink from filling our
mission, which is to redeem the land, and build
up cities in this (as we sometimes hear people
say,) "God forsaken country."  It may seem
"God forsaken" to the wicked, but to the right-
eous it does not seem so.  We as Latter-day
Saints, when we are living our religion, do
know that the Spirit of God is poured out up-
on us when we meet together in our several as-
sociations.  We are living in the midst of a de-
graded and wicked people, who have many
vices and evils, which are calculated to lead
astray our children; our worthy Bishop is using
every precaution, against those evils, that lies
in his power.  We mothers feel thankful that
our children have had the privilege of being
organized in the capacity of a Primary Associa-
tion, which association is in a thriving condi-
tion; its organization was effected January 14th,
1882, with Sister Hannah Romney, President;
July Bingham and Margery Riggs, Counselors;
Olive C. Moffet, Secretary; Sanford H. Bing-
ham Treasurer.  On account of Sister Romney
being called away for a season, a change was
made; Sister July Bingham, President; Margery 
Riggs and Augusta Gibbons, Counselors; the
other officers remaining as they were.  Our 
quarterly reports have been promptly handed
in to the stake secretary at the end of each 
quarter.  
	The children all take a lively interest; we
have a class of boys and girls, who practice
taking minutes at each meeting, their minutes
are frequently read and criticised.  As we live
too far away to meet wiht other associations
in conference, we get up some amusement for
our association at the end of each quarter.  On
last Christmas morning children were seen in
ever direction, flocking toward the Assembly
Hall, where a christmas tree had been pre-
pared, loaded with candies, apples and toys ov
every description.  After all were quietly seat-
ed, Bishop D. R. Udall offered prayer; Master
Lorenzo Gibbons and Sanford H. Bingham, 
each gave a recitation, suitable for the occasion;
the candies and toys were distributed in order, 
and the little folks returned to their homes re-
joicing.  
	Hoping you will find space for this article
in your valuable paper, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel of Christ. 
				JULY A. BINGHAM, 
			President Primary Association, 
				OLIVE C. MOFFIT, 
							Secretary.


LAKE CONSTANCE.
	LUCERNE, Oct. 12th, 1882.
	The night train may be a convenient medi-
um for transportation. It is rarely enjoyable
in this land, yet it has its own peculiar ele-
ments for interesting the stranger. Of course
the train is made up of many compartment
cars. These are of several grades—first,
second, and third. The numbers are marked
on the outside of the doors, but the different
grades of cars are not all together. They are
assorted up and down the line without refer-
ence to any known rule. After one gets used
to the lack of arrangement it does not seem to


[Column 1]
make any vital difference so long as there is
daylight to assist one in determining one’s
whereabouts, but after dark your mathematics
and patience may be put to the test.
	There is no system for checking baggage, as
in our own land. Very little goes under any
circumstances, without extra charge. You
pay for the transportation and have the care of
looking after it yourself. The officials never
show any great alacrity in assisting your
efforts. If the time is short in making a change
of cars you may lose the train before what you
have can be found and examined. The conse-
quence of this is a deal of hand luggage. Ten
persons sitting in a single compartment may
count up from ten to thirty packages. A dim
light glimmers down from a little lamp up
above, which dispenses half its benefactions to
the next compartment. Suddenly you may be
whisked into a gloomy depot, your guards an-
nouncing that you are to “have your luggage
examined, and change cars.” Then there are
sighs, possibly groans, from the sleepers, after
that, “hurrying in hot haste.” Portmanteaus,
bags, bundles, umbrellas, walking sticks,
wraps and passengers, become a confused mass
of animation.
	If you have reached a frontier station the
custom house officers are on duty; if it is sim-
ply for a new departure, you may move on.
The guards shout, you try this section, and
then that. Every one is full, or numbered
differently from your ticket. At last you spy
a snug corner, get your things adjsuted to
your mind, to find yourself in a “damen” car,
where your gentlemen friends are not admitted,
or in a compartment where smoking is not
prohibited. One calamity is as bad as the
other. We have been in a car where the pro-
hibition not being hung up, five or six of our
fellow travelers were making ready to smoke
to any extent regardless of the discomfort of
the ladies present and the fact that the win-
dows were closed. You always get out of the
tangle some way even at the last moment. If
you speak in silvery tones to the guard, it gen-
erally facilitates matters, and you will be very
likely to find yourself in a compartment that
is appropriated by none but our own party.
The door does not open to others as easily as it
might, and you settle yourself comfortably
in the cushions and find you have plenty of
sleeping room. If it is cool, the guards run
queer looking footstools in, which experience
teaches you contain hot water.
	A lunch is one of the essentials for such
nocturnal rides. Hot coffee can generally be
obtained along the route. We usually take
our tourist’s cup into the restaurants, lest it
prove too hot to drink on the spot. Finding
our own place on our return to the train sets
us up very much in our own estimation.
	When we know the clocks in Munich have
long before rung out the hour of twelve,  we
seem to rouse from dreaming or from thinking,
we hardly know which, but we have a vision,
before our mental eye at least, in which a
maiden and “a strong white charger which fed
from her hand,” go rushing through our mind.
Before the morning breaks fairly on our sight
we see Lake Constance:

Girt round with ragged mountains,
The fair Lake Constance lies,
In her blue heart reflected
Shine back the starry skies,
And watching each white cloudlet
Float silently and slow,
You'd think a piece of Heaven
Lies on our earth below.

	We are no longer sleepy. We are nearing
Bregenz and are straining our eyes in the
morning twilight to find where 

Her battlements and towers
From  their rocky steep,
Have cast their trembling shadows
For ages on the deep;

[Column 2]
Mountain and lake and valley
A sacred legend know,
Of how the town was saved one night,
Three hundred years ago.

	The mountain of St. Gall, and Appenzell
with its snowy peaks, are the setting in which
we find the quaint old city framed. The hills
which lie closely around it are thickly covered
with rich verdure. The snow-dad Sentis in
the distance lends an extra charm to the pic-
ture. It is easy to comprehend here on the
spot how the true heart of the native daughter
of this soil was stirred to its noble deed of
daring when she saw the house of her child-
hood menaced by strangers.
	As the morning brightened, we reached Lin-
dau, as curious in its appearance as anything
we have seen. It lies on an island several
hundred feet from the shore, and is connected
with the mainland by an embankment and
bridge. Tiberius is said to have founded a
fort on this island and maintained a fleet on
the lake. The old tower near the bridge seems
to offer its testimony to that effect.
	A boat of fair proportions was lying at the
pier waiting the coming passengers. A half-
hour’s delay gave us quite a good look at that
odd place. Everything was old and every-
thing was clean. The houses stood with
quaint gables endwise towards the street.
These gables were notched on their outer edge
like the teeth of a saw. A huge marble lion
keeps guard over the little harbor, while a
handsome lighthouse does duty as grandly for
the little place as though the navy of a nation
was dependent on its fidelity for safety. The
place is small. The lion and the lighthouse
are large. We rather enjoyed the air of im-
portance they put on. A hot breakfast on the
little steamer took nothing from our enjoyment
of the trip.
	We find nearly all of these Swiss lakes larg-
er than we expected. This one is forty-two
miles long by eight in width. It is not hem-
med in by high mountains, but commands
many beautiful views of their snowy tops in
the distance. The banks are green and swell
upward toward the bills beyond with many a
picturesque hamlet or town resting among the
verdure. There is a sense of repose over the
whole which is most refreshing to the sight-seer
from the Southern cities.
	As the banks of this lake belong to five dif-
ferent governments, we find some civil looking
custom house officers waiting for us at Roman-
shorn. The scrutiny is not of a severe order.
Before the dinner hour we are at Lucerne, glad
to find ourselves again within its walls, though
it be only to gather up our belongings, find
the rest of pur party who were to meet us
there, and then start on.
—Ex. 	RUTH RANDOM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


In the New York Senate Chamber at
Albany hangs the oldest portrait of Columbus.
It was presented by Mrs.  Maria Farmer, a
granddaughter of Jacob Leslie, governor of
New York in 1689, and bears date 1592.


[Column 1]
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc, Etc.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSRY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
WW. JENNINGS, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 to 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜

