[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | September | Issue: 5 | Title: AROUSE. | Author: Unknown]

AROUSE.

MANKIND, to whom the gracious God has given
	The fairest gifts contained in Heaven and earth,
His vast sublime benignity has striven
	To make thee well contented from thy birth
	With his full bounties, and to prove thee worth
These blessings, freely placed thee on thine
	honor,
	Now hast thou surely brought about a dearth
Of virtue in the scales of the great Donor.
For slowly hast thou sunk in sin and error;
	The second step how easily the first
One follows, ’till thou look’st about in terror,
	To find thyself within a region cursed,
	The victim of a tortuous evil thirst;
Until, sore rent with an insane-desiring,
	The soul, its own perdition’s bonds to burst,
With all its strength the being fall’n is firing.
But presently the sweet soul’s voice grows
	fainter,
	And dies away unto eternal space,
And then thou givest o’er to thine attainter,
	The sensual, a[-]l thy pure and radiant grace;
	For guiling Sin, half veiling what is base,
The claims of life and love is undermining,
	That thou ere long may’st look upon his face,
A godless beauty in his shame defining.
And then the soul is stifled and is deadened,
	Submerged in pleasures gross and sorrow’s
	stream,
And when a sigh steals o’er the senses leadened,
	Like soft and sad reproaches in a dream,
	The wilful heart turns from the heavenly theme,
Responding, “What has God in goodness given
	To me? I’ve naught to lose nor yet redeem—
My soul has ever been with sorrow driven.

“My life has been an unfulfilled desiring,
	A restless search for what will satisfy;
Vain pleasure, naught but transient hope inspir-
	ing,
	Seems but a cruel phantom passing by,
	And God gives not to me for what I sigh;
So will I drift, and if I chance to please me
	With Sense’s charmers, that around me lie,
Whate’er they be, oh,therewith may I ease me.”
And askest thou what has our Maker given
	To thee—ah, know he gives to all mankind
The fairest gifts contained in earth and Heaven,
	That for us all his goodness has designed.
	He made the earth that thou a home shouldst
	find,
Adorned with rarest plants and fruits and flowers,
	The towering, misty mountains, richly lined
With hordes of treasures that may all be ours.

[Column 2]
Thou hast dominion over all that liveth
	And moveth on the earth and in the sea;
The Seasons, and the rain and snow He giveth
	To moist’ and fertilize the earth for thee,—
	The Sun’s great golden glory graciously
Is poured from out the Heavens in abundance,
	At night, the Moon’s soft silver—faithfully
All nature serves thee with her rich redundance.
And thou hast life and strength to onward bear
	thee
	And bend all that thou needest to thy will,
Thy senses’ sweet endowments, which have made
	thee,
	When rightly used, a power thy wants to fill.
	Thou hast an intellect, sublimer still,
Than any gift that governs life or motion,
	Which can thy deeds with depth and greatness
	thrill,
And steer thee wisely through life’s rolling ocean.
Thou hast a soul, that fills thee with a passion,
	Too pure and nobly wrought to be earth born,
That wakens to thy life in fervent fashion,
	The first rare radiance of a fairer morn
	Than e’er the breast terrestial may adorn,—
A soul that thrills thee with the fires of heaven,
	Responsive to the Infinite, they warn
Thee to retrieve thy being, folly-riven.
Then sigh not that thy life hath naught but sor-
	row
	To break the prairie of a desert waste,
That thou from degradation’s depths must bor-
	row
	That which to render it unto thy taste,—
	But live in yielding to that prowess chaste,
With which the intellect and soul hath crowned
	thee,
	Nor let false pleasure, painted and debased,
Her petty lies and larcenies e’er wound thee.
Oh, Mankind, rise, and breathe the air’s diffusion.
	Exhaled by virtue and simplicity;—
As Nature follows crime with retribution,
	So will she to the noble gracious be.
	Then Reason’s light doth teach thee well to
	see,
An earnest life will yield the deepest pleasures,
	The highest uses of thine entity
Will win thee trust and love, man’s greatest
	treasures.
