[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 37 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Harmer]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Let's Learn to Quilt Holly B. Keddington 591Casseroles Mabel Harmer]
the  Tabernacle,  trip  to  Saltair,  were  among  the  enjoyable  features. 
— News  Note 
Page  586

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
JUDGE  LORNA  LOCKWOOD, 
born  of  a  pioneer  family  in 
Douglas,  Arizona,  was  recently 
National  Affairs  Chairman,  and  was 
later  elected  State  Supreme  Court 
Justice  in  Arizona.  She  is  the  first 
woman  in  the  United  States  to  be 
elected  to  a  State's  highest  court. 
She  is  also  the  first  woman  to  re- 
ceive the  University  of  Arizona's 
annual  Alumni  Achievement  Award. 
Judge  Lockwood  is  deeply  beloved 
for  her  ability,  her  incorruptibility, 
and  her  great  concern  for  the  wel- 
fare of  citizens,  especially  children. 
T^HE  charming  wife  of  Japanese 
Prime  Minister  Havato  Ikeda 
accompanied  her  husband  on  his 
recent  diplomatic  visit  to  Washing- 
ton, D.C.,  thus  creating  a  precedent. 
Traditionally,  traveling  Japanese  po- 
litical leaders  lea\e  their  wives  at 
home.  President  and  Mrs.  Kennedy, 
ex-President  and  Mrs.  Eisenhower, 
and  Prime  Minister  and  Mrs.  Ikeda 
lunched  together  at  the  White 
House. 
£)R.  ALICE  MARION  ROB- 
ERTSON, well-known  Ameri- 
can cellist  and  member  of  the  Music 
Department  of  the  University  of 
Utah,  is  one  of  forty-three  cellists 
from  twelve  countries  who  have 
been  accepted  as  competitors  in  the 
Third    Pablo    Casals    International 
Cello  Competition  to  be  held  in 
Israel  in  September  1961.  As  a 
"performing  student,"  in  the  Casals 
Master  Class  held  in  Berkeley,  Cali- 
fornia, last  year,  Miss  Robertson 
appeared  on  the  twenty-six  lesson 
series  presented  on  television.  She 
is  the  daughter  of  Dr.  Leroy  J.  Rob- 
ertson, eminent  composer. 
A/TRS.  EVA  WILLES  WANGS- 
^  ■"■  GAARD,  a  Latter-day  Saint 
and  frequent  contributor  to  The  Re- 
lief Society  Magazine,  recently 
received  a  signal  honor  from  The 
Lyric,  America's  oldest  independent- 
ly printed  'little"  all-poetry  maga- 
zine. At  its  fortieth-birthday 
celebration,  the  periodical  presented 
to  twenty  American  poets,  among 
them,  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard,  a 
citation  for  ''serving  the  cause  of 
traditional  poetry  long  and  well.'' 
On  the  list  were  such  famous  names