[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Proctor]
[A Parable for Polly Maude Proctor]

Linda prepared a light luncheon for her mother and herself, and then sat back leisurely to enjoy her mother. There was something about Mrs. Higgins that always put her at ease. Linda had always maintained that Jess was so much like her mother in disposition that he seemed more like her own son. "You look simply wonderful, Mother. As always, may I add," Linda complimented Mrs. Higgins, as she gazed at the woman's beautiful silver-gray hair and soft-textured skin. "Thank you, Linda. Actually, I never felt better. Your father isn't pushing himself so much lately. I think that he has finally learned how to relax. We seem to enjoy life more now than we ever have." 597 "Daddy always did push himself too hard, Mother." Linda was thoughtful. "TI really worry about him." "Yes, and you have his disposition, too." Mrs. Higgins looked at her daughter. "Now, that's enough about the Higgins family. How about the Stones? Is everything going along all right, Linda?" Mrs. Higgins narrowed her gaze at her daughter. "Oh, yes, everything is just fine here. The children have grown SO much that you will hardly recognize them, Mother. Honestly, I can't seem to keep Randy in shoes, he grows out of them so fast. Naturally, I'm prejudiced, but I think that Vickie grows prettier every day." "You look a little tired, Linda. Are you sure that you are feeling all right? You always were too much of a fusser in your own home for your own good." Mrs. Higgins always spoke with sincerity and honesty. Linda was slightly annoyed at her mother's accurate — surveillance. "Now, Mom, let's not talk about me. I'm a very dull subject." When Randy and Vickie arrived home from school, they were very pleased, as they always were when their Grandmother Higgins came to visit. They chattered away constantly about their school work, their teachers, and their friends. That night at dinner Jess laughingly remarked, '""Now wait a minute. Your Grandmother will be here for a few days. Save a few things to tell her. You've told her more in a few hours than we usually find out from you all week." 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1961 Linda smiled as she noticed that Jess talked with the same amount of consistency and enthusiasm as the children. However, Grandmother Higgins seemed to enjoy every minute of it. 'Where have the children gone?" Mrs. Higgins remarked after they had retired to the living room. "Oh, they usually go to their rooms after dinner, Mother. 'They like to draw and paint, and sometimes they have some lessons to finish." "Can't they come out here and be a little more sociable while they are at it?" Mrs. Higgins laughed. ""The place is too quiet for my blood. I like a little noise around." Jess looked up from his easy chair, where he was engrossed in the evening paper. Although he didn't speak, his expression seemed to agree with Mrs. Higgins' conclusion. "I think that I'll go in and visit the children before they go to bed. I can see you, my daughter, all day, but the children are away at school a good part of the time." FTER Mrs. Higgins had left the room, Linda and Jess were silent. Linda felt uneasy, and for the first time in her life that she could remember, she was considerably irritated by her mother's attitude. She wasn't used to having her position challenged in her own household. Her family had always accepted her rules and had never criticized her authority. The next morning, as the children left, Mrs. Higgins said to Vickie and Randy as she gently kissed them on the cheek and handed them their lunches, "Have a good day at school, children. We'll miss you." "They are really sweet children, Mom," Linda said, sharing her mother's moment of tranquility. Mrs. Higgins didn't attempt to reply to Linda. Instead, she walked about the kitchen, gazing around as she walked. "You certainly are a wonderful housekeeper, Linda." "Thank you,' Linda said, wondering what her mother would say next. She could always tell when she was about to make a statement by that faraway look in her eyes. Mrs. Higgins sat down at the breakfast table facing her daughter. "I had quite a talk last night with Randy and Vickie. They are truly intelligent and sensitive children, Linda. You and Jess are so fortunate to have them. So often people want children, and thev can't have them. It just makes your heart ache. There is so much sadness in this world that we should surely appreciate our blessings." "I know it, Mother." thoughtful. "Linda, why don't we let Vickie have the party for her little friends while I am here? It would be such fun to help with a party for children She told me about it last Linda was again. Night." INDA wondered when her mother would get to the point. She was definitely working up to something. "I would, Mom, but the weather isn't good enough yet, and I don't want to have the party inside. You know how messy children are." "Yes, I do. Your brothers and sisters were messy, and you were just as messy as they were, Linda, although it's unbelievable to look at you now." Nirs. Higgins leaned over the table closer to Linda. "You know, Linda, we had a good home. THE INTRUDERS We lived in it, and we enjoyed it and each other. It wasn't as elaborate as your home. However, we were clean and neat, but not to the point where it was an obsession with us. Why your children are afraid to move in their own home, and I'm surprised that Jess would allow it. I always knew him to be a man who wanted to enjoy his home and family. As it is, you both are afraid to move." "Oh, Mother, it isn't that bad." Linda tried to uphold herself. "Yes, it is. When you get to the point where you quit living for fear of getting something soiled, then things have certainly gone too far. Why this isn't a warm and loving home. It is more a house where people come and go, a stopping off place until they will find something better. Mark my word, those children are already drawing away from you." Linda felt tears come to her eyes. "I didn't realize." "My dear, I'm only telling you this, because I want to help you. I'm not trying to meddle in your affairs. 'Those three people are very dear. Theyre your family and should be treated as such, not as if they were intruders in your welltun household." Mrs. Higgins got up from her chair and went over to her daughter. Gently she laid her 599 hand upon her shoulder. "Think about it, dear. Now shall we get these dishes done?" The remainder of the day Linda thought a great deal about what her mother had said, and she realized that she had lost a lot of her closeness to her children. She only hoped that it wasn't too late to win them back to her. Jess, too, had seemed lately to be a little distant toward her. She resolved from that moment to act differently. That evening Linda could hardly wait to tell Vickie that they would have her party right away. Happily, the entire family planned for the event, and when the time finally arrived, Grandmother Higgins was just as excited as the rest of the family. The children were served punch, ice cream, and cookies in the living room, and Linda marveled as she noted that not one child spilled his punch. 'The only person who broke the perfect record was Linda, when she tipped a glass slightly as she was about to hand it to her mother. Mrs. Higgins smiled knowingly, and as she glanced around the room, it seemed to have taken on an entirely new personality. In fact, the whole house radiated warmth and aliveness. 'The intruders were gone, and now a happy, contented family dwelt within its walls. <> Si utility Tris W. Schow Futile as trying to recapture spring, Or gluing fallen petals to the rose, Is self-delusive dwelling on the past Until the present lifts her wings and goes. Casseroles Mabel Harmer asseroles can be a real boon to the busy hostess. In addition to being delicious, thev can be prepared ahead of time, so that the last hour before serving can be spent in another way than frying chops. They are no less welcome for the family dinner when Mother wants to prepare something a little special — or ahead of time. Sea food or chicken are the favorite basic ingredients, and there is an almost endless variety of recipes. Here is a rather simple and inexpensive casserole using tuna: Tuna Loar WitH CELERY — OLIvE SAUCE 2 cans tuna " tsp. Pepper 1 c. Soft bread crumbs "2 tsp. Nutmeg 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley % tsp. Cloves 3 tbsp. Chopped pimento 2 eggs "2 tsp. Salt 1 c. Evaporated milk 2 tbsp. Melted butter Mix together and put into a well-buttered casserole. Bake at 350° for 45 minutes. Serve with the following sauce: 1 can celery soup, % c. Evaporated milk, % c. Sliced olives. If you want to serve a real party dish that can be made very easily try: Ovick Surimp Curry 1 c. Chopped onion 1 tsp. Curry powder 2 tbsp. Butter 2 c. Shrimps 2 cans frozen shrimp soup 3 c. Cooked rice 2 c. Dairy sour cream Cook the onion in butter. Add the soup and stir until smooth. Add the cream and curry. Add the shrimp and heat. Serve over the rice with a sprinkle of paprika and sprigs of parsley. Garnish with any or all of the following: Chopped salted peanuts, hard-boiled eggs, chutney, kumquat preserves. Makes 8 servings. SrA-Foop SUPREME 1 can crab meat, drained, boned, and 1 C. Whipping cream flaked 1 c. Chopped water cress 1 can shrimps "2 c. Buttered soft bread crumbs 2 tbsp. Italian style salad dressing 2 tbsp. Grated Parmesan cheese (oil and vinegar ) % tsp. Paprika 1 can frozen cream of shrimp soup Marinate the crab meat and shrimps im salad dressing 1 hour. Heat soup and cream over low heat, stirring often until soup melts; stir in the crab-shrimp mixture. Layer with chopped water cress into a buttered baking dish.