[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Key | Author: Cornwall]
Professional help should serve to develop characteristics and person- THE KEY TO COMPATIBLE COLOR SCHEMES ality, individual expressions and desires, and these should be discernible. Talents or hobbies may effectively be in evidence. Living room color scheme should be put together by using colors you like, the selection schooled by the knowledge of what would be best after taking into consideration the room's exposure to sunlight, its architecture, size, period of furnishings, and the personal appeal of things that are available to you. Large areas of warm, vibrant colors — reds, pinks, oranges — may become too intense if used in sunny rooms. 'Turquoise, blue, and green in large areas may be too cool in a room that never sees the sun. Pastels make a room seem larger. Dark colors make a room more cozy. Rooms with a strong, traditional architecture are most effective if treated in a manner that acknowledges an appropriate usage of color to the architectural period. Every era when a style of furniture was developed had its own color palette. It seems best to plan within this area. Visualize 18th Century mahogany furniture and fabrics of a silken texture in colors of sage or celadon green, salmon pink, pale grayed-blue, and light ivory. This is representative of the 18th Century period. Early American furniture in maple, on the other hand, can best be expressed by brown, orange-rust, gold, and olive green. Departures from traditional usage in color and variations that are sometimes exquisitely Startling are not usually well-executed by the novice. A great deal of "know-how" should be obtained in order to create these pleasing ex- 583 ceptions. It is this increasing ability on the part of the homeowner, gained by an intellectual awareness, that is making our homes as delight: fully individual as they are. Study in this field would cover color in all phases, as well as art principles such as line, form, pattern, texture, proportion, scale, balance, and light. Remember — taste is based on knowledge! Dining areas, if part of the living room, can be decorated as extensions of the living room scheme, thereby giving the effect of spaciousness. When the area is separated either by walls or a room divider, then the dining room becomes a lovely place for accent color. A living room with a gold carpet, amber white walls, and emerald green upholstery on two chairs makes a lovely transition to a dining room with the same gold carpet, pale clear yellow walls, a fresh yellow and white print for upholstery colors and drapery, a tier table or planter filled with green plants, and an Italian white iron light fixture. This color scheme would work equally well with contemporary walnut furniture, French Provincial fruitwood, or 18th Century mahogany. The color scheme described is monochromatic, with green as an accent color. An analogous scheme might have the dining room done with the same gold carpet, pale yellow leaf-green walls, and grass-green velvet upholstery. A complimentary color scheme might have the same gold carpet and amber white walls, with drapery and upholstery in purple and white stripe. The light fixture might be brass with amethyst crystal pendants. 584 HE criterion in a kitchen is to have efficiency which _ results from careful planning. Many studies in research have been conducted and the findings printed time and again which tell us where appliances and work counters and storage areas should be in relationship to each other, and careful regard to these suggestions will save countless steps and conserve energy. Beyond adherence to these factors, the kitchen may be made to look lke anything you desire. It may be clinical in its appearance, or it may be a cozy second living room, with easy chairs, carpet, and TV. It may have wood cabinets, metal cabinets, or a combination of both. It may incorporate any kind of color palette — white, pale tints, or strong hues. It may have an "out of sight" storage for all accessories, or it may charmingly display containers on the counters or on open shelves for handy use. Think your problem through. Solve your needs efficiently and introduce your own personality. I once saw a second sink introduced in a kitchen, with an area for flower arranging, and the sink had the most interesting and attractive old brass spigot. Above the sink, was a shelf hung with brass chains where beautiful flower containers were displayed when not in use. A bedroom can be large, small, modern, traditional; it may be a sleeping room, a dressing room, a second living room, a hobby room. These elements are for you to decide. Again, think! Something other than a typical bedroom suite of furniture may be best for the room. Use the same careful thought RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1961 in selecting fabrics. A bedspread might be made of upholstery material and would be most attractive and serviceable in a blue-green color combination. Or consider the pink, red, orange color range, or beige, ochre, and black blend. On the other hand, there are embroidered organdies or delicate eyelet fabrics, and the many, many lovely textures — smooth and nubby — practical, and not so practical, that run the gamut in between. An extra dividend in the decoration of a bedroom would be to use some idea to express a mood or theme in addition to that of a pleasing color scheme. Consider the effect of a quaint "Grandma Moses" type room with poster bed, primitive (pure hues) colors, bandbox striped paper, needletuft rug or carpet, and appropriate pictures. Or consider a bedroom created to have an Hawaiian lanai effect. A low, large bed with no headboard but many cushions of bright color, bamboo or rattan furniture, wicker lamp shades, cool colors, leaf prints — all give the "Island" feeling. An "Empire Campaign" inspired room creates an entirely different effect with bold striped wallpaper in colors of cinnamon, white, and black, and awning spears of black iron holding up a canopy of whitefringed black felt over the windows. The furniture would be ebonystained and the carpet sand colored. A "Campaign" chair of brass with black leather would contrast with the cinnamon-colored bedspread. The imagination can run rampant with one idea after another. 'These ideas can be translated into something feasible and pleasing to all THE KEY TO COMPATIBLE COLOR SCHEMES occupants of the room. There are many other rooms of the house not mentioned specifically — family rooms, recreation rooms, children's rooms, bathrooms. 'To develop unusual color schemes in these rooms proceed in the same way as in the rooms mentioned. Find out everything that is available to you in the way of furnishings and ideas, and then determine what is best for you. 585 We have walked through the house — our imaginary house — and given it a brief analysis. We can see how interest is developed in each room. We hope there will be consistency and good transition in the scheme. Now I trust you are honestly thinking of color on your own terms — with your own interests and preferences in mind. This is a colorful world we live in. Have courage and go ahead. Good luck!