[Vol48 | September 1961 | Sequence: 40 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

I was quite thrilled with the article "Reminiscing" by Camilla Eyring Kimball in the July issue of the Magazine. I, too, lived in those good old days, and it brought back many memories. This was my life all over again. My mother was the daughter of a pioneer family, Aroet L. Hale of Grantsville, Utah. She passed to the great beyond in Emmett, Idaho, in 1942.
—Joseph W. Hunter
Redding, California

I appreciate the lovely thought of receiving a year's subscription to The Relief Society Magazine through the goodness of Mrs. Grace Jones, Henefer, Utah. To date, I have received three copies and find the reading matter very good and interesting, including the recipes. The Magazine covers are really beautiful — in fact, they would be ideal for framing. I am not a member of your lovely Church, but, in all sincerity, you have wonderful members who attend it. Thank you for a really lovely Magazine.
—Mrs. M. Noonan
Brisbane, Australia

Just recently being converted to this wonderful faith, I enjoy Relief Society, also the Magazine. The covers are so colorful and the contents very interesting. The lessons on theology, visiting teaching, home nursing, literature, are all educational. We look forward to trying the cooking recipes.
—Helen M. Parker
728 Seward Avenue
East Liverpool, Ohio

I would like to say how very much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. It is my favorite Magazine and very helpful and inspirational. I especially enjoyed the poems and the story from the contest in the January issue.
—Mrs. Gwendolyn Jacobson
Elsinore, Utah

The July issue of the Magazine is a splendid one. The stories and poems are fine, and the article "Reminiscing" by Camilla Eyring Kimball was read with enjoyment. The editorial "The Ripening of the Wheat" [Vesta P. Crawford] held a special interest for me, as the early years of my married life were spent on a dry farm, where wheat was all important. We knew the anxiety of watching, hoping, praying for a crop. We have thrilled with joy as the tiny green blades first appeared. We know the gratitude felt as the grain developed and the heads bowed with their precious weight. We, too, have known pride and gratitude that the wheat made possible college degrees for our children.
—Maude O. Cook
Tremonton, Utah

Today I received the Magazine for July, and I was delighted with it. I found time to view all of the illustrations and to read the descriptive matter of each. I consider it a privilege and an honor, and I do appreciate receiving such a lovely Magazine, with an outstanding cover, short stories, lessons, recipes, and poetry. They are all such a help to me, and I do enjoy them all.
—Amy B. DeLoney
Manteca, California

Just a note from a man for a change. Recently I spent a happy afternoon reading the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. As a husband and father, I am grateful for the ideals taught the women and girls in the Church through this Magazine. The stories, contrary to popular literature, movies, etc., place the correct values of love, self-sacrifice, and service above the passions of greed, violence, anger, and personal ambition. Thank you for the inspiration and moral armor you furnish us men, especially through building virtuous, kind, and unselfish women for us to try to be worthy of, both as husbands and as fathers.
—David G. Berbert
Ventura, California