[Vol1 | February 1914 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Home for Women and Girls]
RELIEF SOCIETY HOME FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS.
The Relief Society Home for Women and Girls was opened formally December 19, 1913, with brief and modest dedicatory services.
The Home is situated opposite the North Gate of the Temple grounds,
36 West North Temple St.
It represents the culmination of a long cherished hope and plan.
Every woman in the Relief Society will rejoice at this new feature of our work.
For there are many reasons why we should have such a place in this city.
Women, without relatives or friends, come to this city to do work in the Temple, or to visit the conferences of the Church.
They have no place to go, and they shrink from seeking lodging in the many public hotels, which offer all kinds of accommodations but security, friendship and association with our people.
The hotels are good in their time and place, but not what is needed by such visiting women.
Girls, who insist on coming to this city to get big wages, are too often allowed to drift about with no secure quarters where they may lodge until they can secure work, nor a place to go to while one place is exchanged for another or more desirable one.
All these needs have been KELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 17 felt and realized for a long time by members of the General Board.
In the olden days the saints in this city entertained the saints from the country and everybody knew everybody else, and there was no question of lodging houses or hotels.
But times have changed; and some of our visitors now feel obliged to seek temporary lodgings in the various hotels and rooming houses.
Our sisters do not want nor expect to have this accommodation without paying sufficient to keep up the expenses of the place, for they are possessed of the proper pride and dignity of character which makes them self-supporting under all circumstances.
The sisters of this Society have contributed of their mites to build meeting houses, carpet temples, purchase silver for sacrament purposes; have sent money to the missionaries, nursed the sick, educated the nurses, clothed the dead and nurtured the orphan.
But the day has come when they are going to be placed in positions where they can do some wise and kind things for themselves.
This Home is such an enterprise. "When we were discussing the Home before President E.
B.
Wells one day she remarked that the Prophet Joseph Smith had given the Belief Society in Nauvoo a home for just  such a purpose as this.
And the question at once arose is there anything that this wonderful man did not inaugurate and give the initial impetus for?
What a Prophet he was and is.
We bow to his kindly intelligence and reverence his god-like memory.
The plan for establishing such a refuge was laid before the General Board of the Relief Society two years ago, and a Committee was appointed to look into such a project.
Mrs.
Rebecca Neibaur Nibley was appointed as Chairman of this Committee, with Sisters Elizabeth C.
McCune and Elizabeth C.
Crismon as the other members.
Later on, because of the temporary absence of Mrs.
McCune, Mrs.
Janette A.
Hyde was added to the Committee.
These sisters have worked indefatigably to bring about the successful conclusion now manifested.
When the Presidency of the Church and the Presiding Bishop were approached, they gave the project their heartiest support.
Several houses were offered to the Committee to choose from and after careful consideration the one named was chosen.
It is somewhat limited for room and will not be adequate long for the purposes of the Home.
But it is a modest beginning, and it was felt wiser to begin thus simply and spread out as occasion may require.
The house itself was built for Sister Jane Carrington Young in 1874 by her husband,
18 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Apostle Brigham Young, Jr., and at her death passed into the hands of the Church.
President Joseph F.
Smith suggested the name when the matter was presented to him of "The Relief Society Home for Women and Girls," and such it has been named.
On the evening of December 19th there were assembled in the cosy parlor of the Home President Joseph F.
Smith, Presiding Bishop C.
W.
Nibley, Elder R.
K.
Thomas and Elders Arnold Schultess, C.
E.
Martin and A.
B.
Olsen, who where there as members of the Temple Quartette.
Of the sisters present there were President Emmeline B. "Wells, her two Counsellors, Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams and Julina L.
Smith; Mrs.
Rebecca Neibaur Nibley, who had charge of the services as the Chairman of the Home Committee Mrs.
Elizabth C.
McCune, Elizabeth C.
Crismon and Janette A.
Hyde of the Home committee Mrs.
Carrie S.
Thomas Mrs. ; ; Susa Young Gates' and Miss Sarah M.
McLelland of the General Board, and the Temple Quartette, with Sister Agnes McMillian Bolto as the contralto of that quartette.
The Chairman, Sister Nibley, introduced the singers, who rendered the hymn, beginning "When Dark and Drear" in a feeling manner.
Bishop Nibley offered the opening prayer, and the quartette sang "Gallilee." Sister Nibley then expressed her great joy shared by the Board in seeing the completion of this happy enterprise.
She related the circumstance of the hurried opening of the Home in July to accommodate the visitors to the N.
E.
A.
But not until the present time had the Committee been able to complete their plans and arrange for the formal dedication of the Home.
She spoke of the generosity of the Church in giving the Board this spacious house for the beginning of our Home and they had been equally generous in the assistance needed to further renovate and remodel the place to suit our needs.
She referred to the donations made by the Y.
L.
M.
I.
A., the Primary Board, the Tooele Stake Relief Society, the private donations of Sisters Annie Watson and Clarissa Smith Williams, Sisters Beatie, Jennings, Crismon and others, all of whom had contributed of their means and furniture to make the Home attractive and suitable.
