WHY WOMEN ARE EXTRAVAGANT. 
			   —
Somebody once said that the women of
to-day are so extravagant in dress, and so
helpless in other respects, that none, but
rich men can afford to marry, and foolish
people have been saying the same thing, or
something very like it, ever since. Every
time a man fails in business, people take a
mental inventory of his wife’s wardrobe and
cry out, “Poor fellow! he was ruined by her
extravagance!”
No account is taken of his club expenses,
or his unnecessary restaurant bills, or his
fast horses, or the vanity which prompted
him to buy a bigger or a finer house than
he needed. Nothing is said of his dress
coats made by some Monsieur Snip, who
charges extra price because he calls himself
an “artist tailor.” The man may have
gambled his money away, or have lost in
reckless stock speculation, for all anybody
knows to the contrary, while his wife, be-
lieving him to be rich, has dressed and
lived only as his circumstances warranted,
doing it, too, only for his sake, that he
might not be ashamed to introduce her as
his wife. Or, if she had been as extrava-
gant as he, the fault is usually his so long as
the fact remains that any proper man can
lovingly control the course of any proper
wife. Women are often extravagant. The
fact cannot be denied. But that they are
more so than men is by no means true. As
a rule, every woman wishes to live within
her husband’s income, and in nine families
out of ton all the economizing is done by
the wife. This constant iteration of the
charge against women, however, has se-
cured a kind of passive acceptance for the
theory, and nothing is more common now
than for the young men with salaries of two
or three thousand a year to lament their in-
ability to marry, because women are so ex-
travagant. One of these has recently told
the public through the newspapers how it
takes all his salary of two thousand dollars
to support a single man, and looking over
his bills of items and finding that it takes
fifty dollars worth of perfumery every year
to keep him sweet, we quite agree with
him that he should not marry.—“Hearth
and Home.”


