THE MOORISH GIRLS.
	The young Moorish girl of Algeria, is one
of the prettiest and most fascinating crea-
tures in existence. Her features are oval,
her eyes are wonderfully expressive; but
she is as deceitful as the most artful Euro-
pean coquette. The gracefulness of her car-
riage is exceedingly striking. Her hair,
which is not unfrequently straight, though
sometimes curly, is as dark as the raven’s
plumage. It Is generally arranged in bands,
and is passed round the head and fastened
in a simple or double tail, which is tied
with ribbons, and almost sweeps the ground.
The “coiffure” Is covered with a velvet
“chachia,” which is fastened under the
chin with two pieces of ribbon.
	The Moorish maiden has very small hands
and tiny feet. Her stature is about the
middle height, and her carriage graceful.
Her costume is generally very elegant. The
plainest toilette consists of a gauze chemise,
with short sleeves and a “serroual” (pair of
drawers), made of white calico or muslin,
very wide, and reaching down to the knee.
It not unfrequently happens that the Moor-
ish maiden wears, in addition to the above
toilette, the “djabadoli,” a kind of richly
embroidered vest, which seldom or never
reaches above the shoulders, and which
tends to contract the chest.
	At other times she wears the “rlila,” a
kind of jacket made of silk, and richly em-
broidered in gold. She wears over her
hips, not a crinoline, but a large piece of
striped silk called “fouta,” which reaches
down to the ground; and over that a silken
sash, the gold-embroidered ends of which
hang down in front. When the “rlila” is
worn, the “coiffure” is changed; and the
“chachia” is replaced by a silk handkerchief
of bright colors, or else by the “sarma,”
which is nothing else than the “hemine,”
which the French women wore in the four-
teenth century. The “sarma,” which is
made of gold or silver thread, is generally
a masterpiece of embroidery. We must
not omit to mention the “babouches,” which
are made of green velvet, and which almost
cripple the feet as much as the slippers
worn by the Chinese ladies.
	The Moorish women never move abroad
without being closely veiled. They en-
velop themselves so in a white “kaik” in
Algiers, and in a blue one at Constantine,
that it is utterly impossible to catch a
glimpse of any other part of their features
than their eyes.
	Such is the physical portrait of a Moorish
woman. Her moral one has nothing very
attractive in it, which arises from the want
of education. If of poor parents, she is
beaten frequently, and sadly cuffed about
by her parents. Her only wish is to escape
from their tyranny.
	If her parents are rich, even then she is a
stranger to domestic comforts. She is gen-
erally secluded in a corner of the house, and
left entirely to the care of a negress; and
as she grows up her sole aim and delight
is to become one of the most arrant co-
quettes, and to plunge into all kinds of in-
trigue. A woman, according to the ideas
of all Mussulmans, is nothing more nor less
than a mere toy—a plaything, a piece of
funiture, which every man ought to posses,
but who has no right to think or to act.
Hence the cause of her profound ignorance
and semi-barborous state; and yet the Moor-
ish women possess wonderful talent for
learning. There is a French institution at
Algiers to which young Moorish girls are
admitted.
	Those children who belong to the poorer
class, and who are sent there by their pa-
rents for the sake of the small sum that is
given to all who attend, and because they
get rid of them during the day, are remark-
ably intelligent and quick at learning. The
Moorish girl is not named until eight days
after her birth; but until that ceremony
takes place she is always called “Fatima,”
as the mother of the Prophet. Their prin-
cipal names are Alcha, Bedra, Djohar, Fati-
ma, Halima, Haouria, Khredoubja, Khreira,
Meriem, Mimi, Mina, Mouni, Orgoya, Rosa,
Safia, Sbida, Zeina, Zohra. Not a few of
these names have very flattering significa-
tions; for instance, “Zeina” signifies pretty,
and “Sbida” orange flower. 
	The Moorish maiden marries when very
young; but scarcely any change takes place
in her social position after she quits her
paternal roof to abide under that of her hus-
band. If she moves in good Arab society,
she passes most of her time at the baths
(the gossiping shops of the East and of Al-
geria) and at her toilette; the rest in eating
all kinds of sweetmeats, disputing with her
husband’s other wives, or making appoint-
ments with her friends to visit the mosques,
where she goes to offer up prayers to the
holy marabouts that she may be the mother
of many sons. Thus does she pass her days
in trifles light as air until a certain period,
which, alas! comes but too soon—that is,
when her youth and beauty vanish like a
dream—and then she foils into a lethargy
from which the hand of death alone relieves
her.
	Should she belong to the poorer class,
then her condition is much more to be la-
mented. She is trained up from youth to
perform the most laborious work, and for
which, like the donkey, “she receives more
kicks than presents.” Her husband beats
her and her children, and her condition is
neither more nor less than that of a domes-
tic animal.


An Old-Fasioned  Mother.—Thank
Fortune, some of us have an old-fashioned
mother—not a woman of the period, en-
amelled and painted, with her great chig-
non, her curls and bottines, whose white,
jewelled hands have never felt the clasp of
baby fingers, but a dear,old-fashioned, sweet-
voiced mother, with eyes in whose depths
the love-light shown, and brown hair
threaded with silver, lying smoothly upon
her faded cheek. Those dear hands, worn
with toil, which guided our tottering steps
in childhood and smoothed our pillow in
sickness. Blessed is the memory of an old-
fashioned mother! It floats to us now like 
the beautiful perfume of some woodland
blossom. The music of other voices may be
lost, but the entrancing memory of her
voice will echo in our souls forever. Other
faces will fade away and be forgotten, but
her's will shine on until the light from
heaven’s portals shall glorify our own.
	When in the fitful phases of busy life our
feet wander back to the old homestead, and,
crossing the well-worn threshold, stand
once more in the low, quiet room, so hal-
lowed by her presence, how the feeling of
childish innocence and dependence comes 
over us! How many times, when the
tempter lures us on, has the memory of
those sacred hours, that mother’s word, her
advice and counsel, saved us from plunging
into the deep abyss of sin! Years have
filled great drifts between her and us, but
they have not hidden from our sight the 
glory of her pure, unselfish love.


A chief of the Chippewas drives a dray
in Detroit.


