EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send you a brief report of the fourth
annual meeting of the F. R. Society of
Santaquin, held Sept. 5th, when we were
favored with the presence of Sisters Simons
and Weach, Presidents of Payson and New-
town Societies, whose remarks were excel-
lent and very encouraging. There was ex-
hibited upon the occasion five handsome
quilts, one of which, it was said, contained
1,932 pieces. This speaks well for the pa-
tience, Industry and economy of the sisters.
Several of the sisters spoke disapprovingly
of “slang” talk, and a happy feeling per-
vaded the meeting; many of the infirm
were administered to at the close, by the
Elders. The Society is in a prosperous con-
dition; a good feeling prevails in our
midst; and all seem willing to aid the old,
infirm and destitute. Santaquin being a
small place, our financial report is also small.
Our income since May 31, 1868, up to May
31, 1872, was $505.35; disbursements to the
infirm and needy, $288;03; our shares in
the Provo Woolen Factory and shares in the
Co-operative store are included in the prop-
erty on hand. We like your paper much,
and wish it great success.
	MRS. E. J. STICKNEY, President;
	MRS. J. D. WILSON, Secretary;
	MRS. E. F. TRITGEN, Treasurer.

	The F. R. Society of Brinton’s Ward,
Big Cottonwood, held a meeting on the af-
ternoon of Wednesday, September 18th,
which was attended by Miss E. R. Snow
and others from Salt Lake city, who took
active part in the proceedings. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. Harriet Brinton, expressed
much satisfaction at the agreeable surprise
which sister Snow’s visit occasioned, as it
was unexpected; and she earnestly thanked
the Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, for
inviting and bringing the sisters from the
city.
	During her remarks Miss Snow said that
"It is not required of women who are seek-
ing to live their religion, gain intelligence
and assist in establishing pure and correct
principles, to neglect their personal appear-
ance; but to endeavor to elevate and beau-
tify themselves in every way, and not
disfigure their forms and make themselves
appear ridiculous by following after the
vain, senseless fashions of the world.” She
asked what was more becoming and beauti-
fying to an intellectual and refined lady
than a plain, neat dress? The tawdery friv-
olities of fashion may do for those devoid
of taste and judgment, but they ill become
women of sound thought and reason. We
should seek to increase our fund of knowl-
edge and to polish the mind. There is
more sense and consistency in that than in
covering the body with finery, and seeking
by that means to appear polished and at-
tractive. We should study our own natures,
our own organizations, and learn to under-
stand the laws of life and health. We should


be energetic and ambitious in regard to
these things, and seek to promulgate the
importance which attaches to them. She
said she desired to see a greater interest
manifested by her sisters, in the physiolo-
gical classes that were being formed; and
considered it a matter of great importance
and one that should receive much attention
from the daughters of Zion. It would be
an inestimable help to mothers in rearing
their children to have an acquaintance with
the laws which combine and govern the
different parts of the human system.
	Much credit is due to the Society of sis-
ters of this precinct, for the unwavering
exertions they make in keeping up their
regular meetings; for as the ward is scat-
tered in a great degree, many of its inhab-
itants are situated at an inconvenient dis-
tance from the meeting house; some of
them having to walk three and four miles
for the purpose of attending meeting. They
also exhibit a lively interest in the welfare
of those who are in need of assistance, and
in the cause of truth generally.


