LADY LAWYERS.

	In the Third District Court of Utah, Chief
Justice J. B. McKean presiding, on Saturday
week, September 21, two ladies—Miss Phoebe
W. Couzins, of St. Louis, and Miss Georgie
Snow, daughter of Judge Z. Snow, Attorney
General of Utah Territory, applied for admis-
sion to the bar of Utah, were admitted, and
were duly sworn in as attorneys-at-law. While
we have no ambition, personally, to become a
practicing lawyer, nor to seek admission to the
bar even without the intention of practicing
the profession of law, we recognize in the appli- 
cation and admission of these ladies a prin-
ciple which is daily receiving wider recogni-
tion and which was, a few years ago, ridiculed
when advocated by enlarged minds that looked
beyond their time—the right of a woman to
earn her living in any honorable career for
which she has capacity. In the practical
working of this principle, as in everything
which aims at securing to woman the exercise
of her full and legitimate rights, Utah has
been markedly in advance of other parts of the
Union; and has been as far in advance of Eng-
land in this direction as England has been and
is in advance of Massachusetts, much as the
latter boasts of its philanthropic, humanitarian
and republican ideas. Among the first places
where women commenced to learn to be prac-
tical printers was here in Utah, and if the at-


tempt failed it was because those who com-
menced to learn the art believed they could
earn more with less labor at other kinds of
work. The propriety of women occupying
desks as book-keepers, and acting as clerks in
stores, so that the men thus employed might
devote their greater physical strength to
heavier labor which had to be done, was urged
years ago from the stand by President Brigham
Young and other leading men in  the commu-
nity. And to-day, on the thousand miles of
telegraph lines owned and worked in Utah, the
Deseret Telegraph Company employ more lady
operators than can be found on the same dis-
tance of wire in any other part of the world.
Ladies, too, at the present time are studying
medicine in this city, with a view to qualify 
themselves for its practice; and in every direc- 
tion in which woman’s talents or powers can 
be made available, there is every encourage- 
ment for their cultivation and development. 
All this is in Utah, and among the “down-
trodden women of Utah,” concerning whom
silly sentimentalists continue to theorize, and
waste unsought and undesired sympathy upon;
women who have every avenue open for them
to secure a living, and a competence if they
possess financial ability; and women who, if	
they become wives in families where plural
marriage exists, do so understandingly, and of
their own free will, and of their own free will
they could dissolve the bonds so accepted if
they felt disposed.
	It was telegraphed east and west that two
ladies had been admitted to the bar of Utah
as practicing lawyers, and the local press has
had considerable to say in regard to it; yet it
might with equal justness and more force have
been telegraphed that here in Utah, decried,
abused and maligned as it has been, women
enjoy more of what is contended for as woman’s
rights than they do in any State in the Federal
Union; and that they appreciate their position
and are seeking to qualify themselves for
spheres of usefulness to which their sisters in
other parts of the country can only yet look in
prospective.


