HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	A conscientious woman cannot be quite
cheerful and at ease when she finds her du-
ties jarring, and much remaining undone
that ought to be done. It will throw a shade
of anxiety over her countenance, and a se-
cret depression will weigh upon her spirits,
which cannot be removed until her house-
hold matters, can be so arranged that the
duties which she feels belong to her as a
woman, in every department in life, can be
accomplished. When the mind is thus af-
fected, the face, which should be as the
sunlight, becomes clouded and careworn,
imparting by secret social sympathy, a gloom
to the whole circle of home. That the
causes may be as quickly removed as pos-
sible, great pains should be taken by hus-
bands to facilitate the performance of and
alleviate oppressive and still imperious du-
ties.
	A housekeeper will find it a great conve-
nience to have a trunk or deep drawer de-
voted to articles used in sewing and
repairing. Bags for keeping all such things
separate and in order are excellent helps,
one for new and another for old calico; one
for white and another for colored pieces;
one for stocking yarn in skeins and balls,
and one for carpet rags. A box with parti-
tions for all the implements of sewing, and
keeping each article in its own apartment,
saves much time and many steps.
	Another very important arrangement in
a family where there are children is to pro-
vide regular duties for each. One to bring
the wood, another to attend to the poultry,
cow, etc., changing round occasionally to
vary monotony; or, if girls, to dress and
undress a younger child, set the chairs in
order, and when old enough to wash and
wipe dishes. When these duties are shown
to children, it should be required of them
that they be performed in the proper
time and way, as much for the benefit of
the child as for the good it will do in help-
ing to preserve order in the domestic ar-
rangements.
	Much of the health of a family depends
upon the judgment of the mistress of the
house in varying food, and arranging the
dishes for different meals so as to be health-
ful and digestible. In some families it is fried
potatoes, meat, and hot cakes, or bread, in
the morning; soggy, boiled potatoes, and
meat at dinner; with a piece of dry, indi-
gestible pie, and bread and butter, cheese,
and “chipped” beef, with crackers, at night.
Now, nothing can be worse for women and
children, or persons of sedentary habits,
than a diet of this kind. It will do for la-
boring men, or those whose lives are spent
much in the open air, although even they
would be better for the regular introduction
into their diet of some elements which the
stomach is more capable of assimilating.
But for the children who go to school, and
women who stay at home, it is simply mur-
derous, and lays the foundation of the fu-
ture liver complaint and dyspepsia, which
have become the heritage of the American
people.
	Meat breakfasts are totally unnecessary
where dinner is taken in the middle of the
day, excepting for men employed in field or
outdoor labor. Boiled oat-meal, hominy,
or wheaten grits, with milk toast or bread
and-butter, are infinitely better. If fruit,
fresh or stewed, can be added, so much the
better. At dinner, the meat should be
fresh or exceedingly well cooked, the pota-
toes cooked dry and mealy, and some other
vegetable added, in which there is an acid,
or a good deal of juice. Grated horse-rad-
ish is invaluable in the spring, as an adjunct
to roast meat; tomatoes cooked without
thickening are an admirable regulator; beets
well cooked and sliced in vinegar are not
to be despised, and any kind of spring
greens, or salad, is a benefaction. It is a
pity that there is an odor so offensive to
some about onions, for, when young, they fill
a convenient niche before fresh fruit ap-
pears, are pungent, and occasionally very
palatable with bread and butter, and act
as one of the specifics in purifying the
blood.—Ex.


