PEN AND SCISSORS.
Spiritualism is on the increase at Nash-
ville.
	Stanley-Africanus, though not thirty,
is gray haired.
	A Rattlesnake bite was cured lately at
Fayette, Ill., by liberal applications of
mud!
	A Peoria dentist announces that he ex-
tracts teeth with great pains. Most dentists
do.
	Leisure is sweet to those who have
earned it, but burdensome to those who get
it for nothing.
	The Edgefield and Kentucky road will
hereafter be known as the Nashville, Chi-
cago and St. Louis railroad.
	Josh Billings says very truly, “You’d bet-
ter not know so much than to know so many
things that ain’t so.”
	A stylish bonnet can be obtained from
Paris for $126. Indulgent husbands will
cut this out to show their wives.
	A little boy in Buffalo bled to death
from the effects of a wound in the leg,
caused by a glass bottle which was thrown
at him by a playmate.
	The peace league of the Hague has ad-
dressed a communication to the Emperors
of Russia, Germany and Austria in favor of
peace in Europe.
	In Switzerland a milkmaid who is a good
singer gets more salary than others, be-
cause under the influence of music cows
“give down” better and give more milk.
	What a glorious world this would be if
all its inhabitants could say, with Shake-
speare’s shepherd: “Sir, l am a true laborer;
earn what I wear; owe no man hate; envy
no man’s happiness; glad of other men’s
good; content with my farm.”
	A fellow at Norwich was bitten by a
dog. As soon as he recovered from his
fright he declared he would kill the animal.
“But the dog isn’t mad,” said the owner.
“Mad!” shouted the victim, exasperatingly,
“what in thunder has he got to be mad
about?”
	The band of an American circus travel-
ing in France was stupid enough to go out
into the streets in the Prussian military uni-
form they had borrowed or stolen in Ger-
many. Although they played the Marseil-
laise, they were compelled to fold their tents
like the Arab and steal away in front of a
whole infuriated town.
	Orange is said to be the proper color for
spectacles, instead of green or blue, for per-
sons of weak eyes. At the Milwaukee Sol-
diers’ Home a room in the hospital is lighted
through orange colored windows, and is
used, with very satisfactory results, for pa-
tients who have certain diseases of the eyes
requiring the exclusion of the actinic rays 
of light.
	Somebody wrote to the editor of a vil-
lage paper to ask how he would “break an
ox?” The editor replied as follows: “If
only one ox, a good way would be to hoist
him, by means of a long chain attached to
his tail, to the top of a pole forty feet from
the ground. Then hoist him by a rope tied
to his horns to another pole. Then descend
on his back a five-ton pile-driver, and if
that don’t break him, let him start a coun-
try newspaper and trust people for sub-
scription. One of these two ways will do it
sure.”


