NEWS AND VIEWS.

	GEORGE SAND, the celebrated French
authoress, advocates the organization of fe-
male free-masonry in France; and she is
really serious in the proposition.
	PENNSYLVANIA, INDIANA, Iowa and
Nebraska hold State elections on the 8th
inst., and that day is expected to decide the
election, in November, for President.
	A LADY refused to go onboard the steam-
er “Metis,” the night that ill-fated vessel
sailed, although her luggage was on board;
and now she thanks Providence for her es-
cape.
	THE LIBERAL Democratic ratification
meeting in New York, on the 12th ult.,
was attended by over forty thousand people.
The fact shows the interest taken in the
present campaign.
	PRUSSIA HAVING conquered France has
now commenced to wage war against Ro-
man Catholicism in Germany. This contest
is likely to be a longer one than the other,
and the result will not be so financially re-
munerative as was the war with France.
	DISCARDING THE side-saddle in riding on
horseback is gaining votaries among women
in different parts of the country, and is said
to be the fashion in Wisconsin. We are not
informed as to what is the change in the
style of dress which precedes this change
in the style of riding in that State,
	A NEWSVENDER in Berlin was fined
twenty thalers recently for selling a copy of
“Woodhull and Claflin’s Weekly.” The
Prussian authorities are not inclined to
countenance the discussion of free-love the-
ories in the style in which Mrs. Blood and
colonel Tennie C. have been accustomed to
create sensations in New York.
	THE SENSIBLE fathers are not all dead.
In Chicago recently a young lady, disregard-
ing the adventitious aids of money and posi-
tion in her lover, married her father’s
coachman. The father, instead of discard-
ing his child and condemning her to misery,
seeing that the young man “had something
in him,” quietly set him up in the livery
business, and the twain are happy.
	FIFTEEN MILLIONS and a half of dollars,
in gold, is the award made to the United
States by the Geneva board of arbitrators;
payable by Britain in Washington in one
year. The amount claimed at first, includ-
ing direct and indirect damages, was some-
where near two thousand millions. This is
considerable of a difference, and it is al-
leged the English have some claims yet to
present for adjudication.
	THE LONG roll of political conventions is
drawing to a close, but stump speaking is
being prosecuted with vigor. Bronchial
affections disappear before the power of
party and monetary inducement, and the
speakers ring out in excited tones denunci-
ations of their opponents and praises of
their party, to win votes from the multi-
tude, while in their hearts dispising and
disbelieving much that they say and sol-
emnly assert as the truth. This is manhood,
as politicians understand it! Could woman
degrade the “science” much? She certainly
might elevate and purify it.
	PERE HYACINTH has been buried. He
still lives, though—in the flesh; but his for-
mer Dominican brethren, after the custom
of their order, viewing his defection or
apostacy as a death, performed the funeral
service for him on the 5th ult. It was
rather singular that he should have married
a few days after, evidently the one event
treading upon the heels of the other.
	FROM THE promises and pledges being
made by prominent Republicans, should
President Grant be re-elected that party
will be placed under obligations to confer
the suffrage upon women. If they do so,
it will likely perpetuate the power of the
party over another Presidential election, at
least, for gratitude will secure them many
votes even from those who would not other-
wise affiliate with the party.
	WE KEEP noting the peculiar ways in
which "piety" develops itself. The latest
illustration is that of a young man in El-
dora, Iowa, who stole a horse some little
time ago, and sold the animal for two bibles
and ten dollars. Of course it was the good
book he was so anxious to obtain; and he
had probably seen some pious deacon rob
the "poor's box" of its Sunday collection,
and viewed the act as a worthy example to
be patterned after. Preaching dread of an
eternal fiery lake, instead of teaching cor-
rect principle, has a tendency to make men
infidels, dishonorable, and wicked.
	RECENTLY THE face has come to light
that the Chinese are ahead of either Eng-
lish or Americans in adulterating tea; and
it is questionable if the pure article at all
finds its way to this market. People talk
of a "cup of good tea!" But if they knew
the stuff with which it is adulterated, an-
other and very different adjective would
qualify the shrub so much in use as a bev-
erage. If people would buy their poisons
separate they could mix them to suit their
own tastes, and perhaps save some of the
money of which John Chinaman now robs
the "barbarians" who shorten their lives and
destroy their nervous systems by drinking
his adulterated tea.
	MRS. DUNIWAY, editor of the "New
North-West," Portland, Oregon, in an edi-
torial article in which she treats of Presi-
dent Grant having "reformed from a vicious
life," gets off the following: "Since the
above was written, General Grant has re-
formed from another bad habit of which he
last March was guilty, the pernicious one of
ignoring or snubbing the taxed, misrepre-
sented and protesting half of his people.
Therefore, we say all honor to him. And
upon the coarse, bigoted, narrow-minded
old dotard who cannot get the top of his
glistening pate above the filthy pool of sex-
ual politics, but who stands ready to remove
from places of emolument and trust the
hundreds of struggling women whom Gen-
eral Grant has given employment, that they
may thereby elevate themselves from the
necessity of bodily immolation upon the
altar of lust for bread, the women of Amer-
ica with one accord are crying 'anathema.'"
The language in which Greeley is here
referred to can hardly be called classical,
and the principal comment demanded by it
is, that it is at once coarse and untrue.
	MORE INDIAN delegations have been vis-
iting their "Great Father" at Washington,
making the usual demands for guns and
ammunition, provisions, and a suspension
of railway building. There is great reason
to believe that these aborigines, from con-
tact with dishonest and swindling agents,
have come to imagine that the United
States government is very rich and very
simple, allowing itself to be robbed in the
easiet manner imaginable, by the agents it
employs, and therefore fair game for the In-
dians to fleece, if the opportunity offers.
The entire Indian policy of the country
needs remodeling, by the employment of
honest men as agents and superintendents;
that is, if honest men can be found willing
to accept such offices.
	THE FIRST convention representing any
of the great political parties of the country,
to squarely and fairly take up the subject
of Woman's rights, was the Liberal Repub-
lican convention of Massachusetts, which
wound up its proceedings by explicitly de-
claring in favor of woman's right to vote,
right to fight, and right to do several other
things now denied to the sex. Charles
Sumner was the choice of the same conven-
tion for Governor of Massachusetts. The
right to vote can be exercised by all women
when they receive it; but Colonel Tennie
C. Claflin is at liberty to embody in her own
person all the right to fight which might
otherwise suffice for at least ten thousand.
The right claimed by Julia Ward Howe is
better—the right to aid in securing peace
to mankind.
	A SAD romance of real life, and accidental
death, by drowning, is related in the "Bel-
fast Morning News," as having occurred a
few weeks since, in the Thames,off Woolwich.
Eight persons had started in a lighterman's
skiff, for a run down the river, in buoyant
spirits. When near Belvidere, the river
became rough and the boat went down stern
foremost, throwing its occupants out, five
of whom were drowned, and three were
found clinging to the boat. The hero and
heroine, Mr. Whyman and Miss Hughes,
an estimable young couple, who, it appears,
were engaged to be married, were not dis-
covered until five days afterward, when
their bodies were found together. Thus,
we live to-day, but know not the hour of
death!
	WE CLIP the following from "Appleton's
Journal" for September 28: "The relatives of
the Prussian Lieutenant von Hafften, who
eloped with two young girls (sisters) from
Berlin, and who is now said to be with
them at Salt Lake city, have published a 
card, in which they assert that he is insane
on the subject of free-love, and that he has
been misled by the pernicious teachings of
a Mormon missionary named Hansen."
Now, as free-love is not taught, nor be-
lieved, in Salt Lake city, and as no von
Hafften has arrived here with or without
two sisters with whom he eloped; and as
no Mormon missionary has been teaching
or preaching in Berlin for some years, the
reliability of the foregoing extract will not
commend itself  to the reading public. In
fact it bears the appearance of a manufac-
tured canard.


