THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	A BRIEF SKETCH OF ITS ORGANIZATION AND WORK-
	INGS IN THE CITY OF NAUVOO, HANCOCK CO, ILLS.
			BY ELIZA. R. SNOW.
	[Reprinted from No. 1 of the EXPONENT]
	According to authentic testimony, an or-
ganization, of which the present Female
Relief Society is a fac-simile, has always ex-
isted when the Church of Jesus Christ has
been fully organized. “Elect lady,” as it
occurs in the New Testament, has direct
reference to the same—alluding to one who
presided over this Institution. See 2d
Epistle of John, 1st verse.
	The first organization of this Society, in
the present dispensation, was effected on
the 17th of March, 1842, by Joseph Smith,
President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, assisted by other promi-
nent Elders. His apology for deferring the
organization till that period, was the great
pressure of duties, labors and responsibili-
ties, which devolved upon him. By his
suggestion a meeting was appointed in
the Masonic Hall, and a limited number in-
vited.
	Perhaps a few extracts from the “Minutes
of the Organization,” would be interesting,
—they are too lengthy for insertion in full:
			 "Nauvoo Lodge Room,
					March 17, 1842.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair,
and Elder Willard Richards appointed sec-
retary.
	Meeting commenced by singing ‘The
spirit of God like a fire is burning,’ etc.
Prayer by Elder Taylor.
	When it was moved by Pres. Smith, and
seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that a vote be
taken to know if all are satisfied with each
female present, and are willing to acknowl-
edge them in full fellowship and admit
them to the privileges of the Institution
about to be formed. Vote unanimous.
	President Smith addressed the meeting
to illustrate the objects of the Society; that
the Society of sisters might provoke the
brethren to good works, in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects
of charity, etc., to assist, by correcting the
morals and strengthening the virtues of the
female community, and save the Elders
the trouble of rebuking, etc. He proposed
that the sisters elect a presiding officer to
preside over them, and let that presiding
officer choose two counsellors; that he would
ordain them, and let them preside over the
Society, just as the Presidency preside over
the Church; and if they need his instruc-
tion—ask him—he will give it from time to
time.
	Let this Presidency serve as a Constitu-
tion. If any officers are wanted to carry
out the designs of the Institution, let them
be appointed and set apart, as Deacons,
Teachers, etc., are among us.
	The minutes of your meetings will be
precedents for you to act upon.
	He then suggested the propriety of elect-
ing a Presidency to continue in office dur-
ing good behavior, or so long as they shall
fill the office with dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Whitney, and seconded
by Mrs. Packard, that Mrs. Emma Smith
be chosen President; passed unanimously.
	On suggestion of Prest. Smith, the Presi-
dentess Elect made choice of Mrs. Sarah
M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney for Counsellors.”
	After which the ceremony of ordination
was performed: “When Prest. Smith re-
[next column]
sumed his remarks, giving instruction how
to govern themselves in their meetings,
what  order to observe, how to regulate dis-
cussions, etc., etc., and concluded by saying,
'Do not injure the character of any one; if
members of the Society shall conduct im-
properly, deal with them, and keep all your
doings within your own bosoms, and hold
all characters sacred.’
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. Prest. Emma Smith and
her counsellors took the chair; and
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Prest.
J. Smith, that we go into an investigation
respecting what this Society shall be called;
which was carried unanimously.”
	(The discussion which was lengthy and
interesting, is wholly omitted.)
	“By unanimous vote, Miss Eliza R. Snow
was appointed Secretary, and
	Miss Phebe M. Wheeler Assistant Secre-
tary, and
	Miss Elvira A. Coles, (the late Mrs.
Holmes) Treasurer.
	Prest. J. Smith said, ‘I now declare this
Society organized with President and Coun-
sellors, etc., according to Parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into this Society must be free from
censure, and received by vote.’
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting by
saying that he is much gratified in seeing a
meeting of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart
rejoices when he sees the most distin-
guished characters stepping forth in a cause
which is calculated to bring into exercise
every virtue, and give scope to the benevo-
lent feelings of the female heart; he re-
joices to see this Institution organized ac-
cording to the law of Heaven; his prayer
is, that the blessings of God and the peace
of Heaven may rest down on this Institu-
tion, henceforth.
	After singing ‘Come let us rejoice,’ etc.,
the meeting adjourned for one week. Dis-
missed by prayer.”
	Before retiring, each gentleman present
gave a liberal donation to commence the
funds of the Institution.
	The following lines were found written
on a scrap and lying on an open Bible in the
room where, and at the time when, the So-
ciety was organized; which have been care-
fully preserved and transcribed as an appro-
priate frontis-piece to the F. R. S. Book of
Records:
	“O Lord, he[-]p our widows and fatherle[-] s chil-
dren! So mete it be Amen. With the SWORD
and the WORD of TRUTH, defend thou them.
So mete it be Amen"
	(to be continued.)


