EDUCATE YOURSELF.
				——
	Woman was designed to be something
more than a domestic drudge; and it is not
right for her to confine herself exclusively,
to that monotonous calling, having no
thoughts, no interests, hopes or prospects
above and beyond so humble a sphere. For,
worthy and honorable as are all common
branches of labor, the hands should not alone
be industrious; but the brain should also be
instructed how to work, and allowed to ex-
pand and improve. And that not only in
things connected with the daily routine of
household duties, but in matters of greater,
and even less importance as well. Sensible
people say, that a girl should not be consid-
ered marriageable until she understands
how to make good bread and wash her own
clothes. Exactly. And we would add,
neither should she be imagined capable of
filling the position of a true wife and mother
unless she can, at least read and write un-
[new column]
derstandingly and converse intelligently
upon other topics than those concerning the
barn-yard and kitchen. And if, after mar-
riage, greater pains should be taken to in-
crease her fund of knowledge pertaining to
the proper care and management of a house
and family’s domestic interests, so also
should more attention and time be devoted
to her own moral and intellectual culture.
When a man has finished his labors for the
day, he usually has a little time for reading
or quiet contemplation and rest. It would
be justly thought absurd and cruel to require
of a child or servant, all the time to be
spent in work, with no chance for mental
improvement. But working women have,
somehow, so arranged, or disarranged, their
work that, generally speaking, it is never
done. And if they ever do sit down for a
moment’s rest, or take up a book or paper,
to use a familiar phrase, “there are a dozen
things staring at them, that want to be
done,” and they cannot enjoy the little
time which they feel as though they were
stealing. And thus a wall is often built,
confining woman to the narrow sphere of
domestic duties, in which she becomes self-
ishly wrapped up in her own interests, and
devoid of those tastes and sentiments
which might otherwise aid her in becoming
an agreeable and useful member of society.
Ill health or extreme poverty, may excuse
a woman for being kept much away from
society, and having little chance for mental
improvement. But even these disadvan-
tages would soon disappear, in most cases,
if a proper and wise reformation could be
called into requisition.
	It often occurs that as soon as a young
lady is married, she seems to think there is
no need for her to pursue her studies any
farther. She may have spent years of time
and cost her parents much expense, to ac-
quire an education, which, when it has as-
sisted in gaining her a husband, she has no
further use for. If that was her only motive
in pursuing her youthful studies, the object
was unworthy the labor and means expend-
ed. Rut woman should consider that for
her as well as for man, there is no end, no
stopping point to be found in the acquire-
ment of knowledge. And she should be
industrious and energetic in the pursuit of
useful information of every kind. It is an
excellent thing to know the easiest and
best methods to keep a house in perfect or-
der; how to prepare a meal of victuals
quickly and tastily; take the advantages of
a heavy washing and ironing, or spin your
own stocking yarn and knit it. But all this
does uot make a woman an interesting and
amiable companion, which it is her right
and duty to be, if her ways are awkward,
her language coarse and vulgar; in short,
her mind uncultivated. Yet, to be edu-
cated in these things will make her of
greater use to the world, than merely what
is now generally considered an accomplished
lady: that is, to have a knowledge of music,
be able to speak French or Latin, and dress
fashionably. Combine a consistent portion
of the two, and mix in a little of common
arithmetic and geography, morality, philo-
sophy and sense, and then go on securing
little gems of wisdom here and there,
wherever they are to be found. They will
never cease to exist, and the best educated
persons can do no better than to keep pick-
ing them up and adding to their store.
									G.


VERY large fires are reported to be again
raging in some of the Michigan woods, and
apprehensions are entertained in some quar-
ters of a repetition of the fearful scenes of
last fall.


