HOME AFFAIRS.
				——
	THE APPROACHING general Conference
promises to be largely attended and more than
ordinarily interesting.
	A BOUNTIFUL harvest has been gathered
throughout the Territory, and the people
should feel proportionately thankful to a kind
Providence.
	THE OFFICE of the EXPONENT will, after the
5th inst., be found on West Temple street, op-
posite the City Market, upstairs in the build-
ing now being erected for the purpose.
	DURING THE past week lists of clubs of sub-
scribers have reached us from different parts of
the Territory, the money accompanying each.
Our friends who continue to work for the in-
creased circulation of the EXPONENT, have our
warmest thanks for their exertions in its be-
half.
	ON THE 3rd inst. the Territorial Fair com-
mences, and on the 6th inst. the Semi-Annual
Conference begins. These will draw a large
number of our friends to the city, any of whom
we shall be pleased to see at the office of the
EXPONENT, on West Temple street, opposite
the City Market.
	THE PHYSIOLOGICAL Class, organized some
weeks ago in the 15th Ward F. R. Society Hall,
meets now at the Social Hall, twice a week; at
four o’clock p.m., on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Ladies interested In the study of physiology
will find it very advantageous, to connect
themselves with this class.
	ROBBERIES ARE on the increase in Salt Lake
city, with as much boldness as if the villains
were operating in the dead of winter. But
why need they be afraid? The third District
Court is in session, yet the presiding Judge, J.
B. McKean, has failed to grant the grand jury
which the Attorney General of the Territory
moved for, and rogues and criminals going un-
whipt of justice become bold In their villainies.
	IN THE present number of the EXPONENT
we reprint the first part of Miss Eliza R. Snow’s
brief history of the first organization of the
Female Relief Society in Nauvoo. The de-
mand for this sketch, after the first and second
numbers which contained it were exhausted,
has induced us to print a heavy edition of the
present number, with which to supply those
who desire it. Copies of the first eight num-
bers are not on sale at this office, but new sub-
scribers from this date can receive the EXPO-
NENT from the present number until the edition
now printed is all sent out, as we shall print an
equal quantity of copies of each subsequent
issue.


