FACTS AND FIGURES. 
Olympia has 312 school children.
The Memphis Industrial Exposition will
cost $30,000.
Slavery is to be gradually abolished in
Cuba and Porto Rico.
A petrified buffalo, full size, standing
and in the act of eating, has been found
near Spinneyville, Iowa.
California has sent by steamer her first-
cargo of wheat, wine and brandy directly to
England.
The largest water tank on the railroad
has just been completed at Albany; Its ca-
pacity is 75,000 gallons.
A Wayne county dog has this season
“chawed up” seventeen rattlesnakes. “Our”
dog beats that. It has killed five skunks in
as many weeks.
According to the State Geologist of Cali-
fornia, the view from the top of Mt. Diablo
is the finest in the world, not excepting any
of the Alps.
The Italian journals speak of a curious
discovery made at Pompeii—namely, a
glass bottle still full of oil. The liquid is
to be analyzed to ascertain its greater or less
degree of preservation.
Senator Trumbull stated in his speech
at Indianapolis, that there was “money
enough squandered by office-holders under
the Federal Government every year to buy
a house and farm and give $1,000 to every
man in the State of Indiana—and that there
are 400,000 men in that State.”
Italian papers report an increasing agi-
tation among the working classes in the
principal Italian towns. “The condition of
the working class,” says the “Persever-
anza,” “has in the last few years completely
altered. In the first place, the number of
workingmen has increased in an extraordi-
nary degree. The progress of industry, on
which we rightly congratulate ourselves,
has led to the establishment of centres of
labor which formerly had no existence.
Great masses are more easily agitated than
individuals, and it is evident that a strike
can be organized more effectually in a town
where there are a thousand workmen than
where there are a hundred. Wages have
not increased in the same proportion ns the
prices of the necessaries of life, besides
which the demand for labor is in this coun-
try greater than the supply.”
Professor Jurgeson, of Berlin, gives
an interesting account of the transfusion of
blood from persons in good health to one
who had been poisoned, with the most happy
results. He states that on the 9th of De-
cember, a young man was poisoned by tak-
ing a solution of the ignition mass of eight
bundles of matches. On the 11th of Febru-
ary, after causing the excitement of the
activity of the heart by champagne, the
transfusion of 580 cubic centimetres of
wholesome blood, which had just been taken
from three healthy persons, was effected
into the vein of the arm, 500 cubic centi-
metres being taken, of the patient’s own
blood, from an artery, at the same time-
Immediately an improvement in the condi-
tion of the patient took place, and in March
he was able to quit his bed. What a splen-
did thing it would be, were the doctors only
capable of ejecting all the diseased and cor-
rupt blood of individuals and transmitting
that which is healthy and pure; thus mak-
ing sound men and women of all the un-
sound ones. But the query is natural:
Where could they obtain sufficient pure
blood for the purpose?


