MISCELLANEOUS.
	A little girl of eight or ten summers
being asked what dust was, replied that it
was “mud with the juice squeezed out.”
	The public should remember that the rate
of postage upon transient newspapers to
any port in the United States is now only
one cent.
	Wise anger is like fire from the flint;
there is a great ado to bring it out; and
when it does come it is out again imme-
diately.—“Matthew Henry.”
	A slight answer to an intricate and use-
less question is a fit cover to such a dish—a
cabbage-leaf is good enough to cover a dish
of mushrooms.—“Jeremy Taylor.”
	Papa.—“Bless me! what a glare! Where’s
your window-curtains, Maria?”
	Mamma.—“Now, don’t be angry, George!
You refused the girls their Dolly Vardens,
and as I would not let them cut up your
dressing-gown, the poor things were forced
to take the curtains.”
	The Republican women of Massachu-
setts have pronounced on the political situa-
tion, at a meeting held in Boston on the
25th ult., and in an address to the women
of the United States. They congratulate
the women of the country on the progress
which the Woman’s rights movement has
made; and look upon Charles Sumner as a
political apostate. Alas, for Sumner, he
has fallen from grace, of the kind Massa-
chusetts appreciates.
	Expectations.—It is reported as a re-
cent occurrence, that a poor man fell in love
with an heiress, and the passion being re-
turned it only needed the consent of the
parents to make them happy. At length,
meeting the father, he asked for the daugh-
ter’s hand.
	“How much money can you command?”
asked the millionaire, gruffly.
	“Not much,” was the reply.
	“What are your expectations?”
	“Well, to tell the truth, I ‘expect,’ if you
refuse your consent, to run away with your
daughter and marry her without it.”
	The Future of Timber.—That the
timber interest of the United States is be-
coming a very important one is not a mat-
ter of surprise, when it is known that
seventy-five million dollars’ worth of fuel
is burned every year in the United States.
Locomotives consume over eight million
cords of wood annually, and over a hundred
million dollars’ worth of sawed lumber is
yearly employed in building and in manu-
factures. Four million acres of forest dis-
appear every year before the axe, to supply
all these demands. No wonder that timber
planting is occupying so much attention in
the west. It is said that California has cre-
ated an officer for the State, of Superintend-
ent of Forest Culture, at a salary of fifteen
thousand dollars a year. This is not prob-
ably wholly accurate, but it shows the di-
rection of public thought. Wood is being
continually put to new uses; one of these,
wooden pavements, will take an immense
quantity in all large cities. there is some
opposition at present to their general intro-
duction on account of the early decay—
about ten years being the limit to this kind
of causeway. But it has been found after
all cheaper than stone blocks lasting fifty
years, because the injury to horses is less,
the wagon tear is less, and the time saved
in going over them enormous. This saving
of time will alone pay for the whole cost of
the road. It is very probable, therefore,
that the consumption of timber will go on
much faster in the future than in the past,
as its uses are steadily increasing.


