[Vol47 | November 1960 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
Social Science— Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 11 — Stages of Religious Development Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, February 28, 1961 Objective: develop. Introduction PIRITUAL living — presupposes the possession of certain religious qualities. Last year's series devoted two lessons to the development of religious maturity. 'The first three lessons of this year focused on exTo understand more fully the manner in which religious qualities panding our religious horizons. But how do religious qualities become a part of us? If we are to be effective in developing these qualities in ourselves, our children, and others to whom we are responsible, it is necessary that we understand the stages LESSON DEPARTMENT and processes of religious development. Growth, development, learning, and the emergence of human personality are cumulative processes, each step or stage giving rise to the next. In most instances, it is necessary for an individual to accomplish successfully the tasks appropriate to each stage of development before he can successfully move on to the next one. And so it appears to be with religious development. If an individual has successfully passed through stages of healthy, religious growth and development appropriate to his age, he is more likely to possess in adulthood the traits, characteristics, and maturity which will permit him truly to implement the teachings and values of religion. The Religion of Childhood A child is born with the potentialities of developing divine characteristics within his human nature. A child must learn, through experience, what he comes to believe regarding God, regarding himself, his relationship with God, and other religious concepts. Since a child's first experiences are with his parents, we can safely assume that the parental influences will be among the more significant ones influencing his religious development. Our concept of God includes the belief that he is our Father in heaven. We can, therefore, expect that a child's relations with his parents, particularlv his father, will have an important influence on his concept of God and, hence, on the whole quality of his religious life. Early Childhood. It is obvious that many things, such as language and self-consciousness, have to be 779 "learned" by the infant before religious life can begin. By the age of two, the child may show apparent feelings of guilt. This behavior, however, is probably imitative of older children or parents. By age three, children may repeat prayers, though with little or no understanding. By the age of four, religion is one of the many things that interest children, and they may ask many questions about it. Thev believe parents to be all-powerful, and it is therefore easy to transfer this belief to the Father in heaven. At five, children see God as being responsible for many of the details of life. Children do not become capable of the higher and more complex process of learning until they get older. This means that one should not expect anything more than the elementary forms of abstract and reflective thinking of the young child. 'This explains the emphasis on rote learning with them. Rote learning seems within their grasp while the higher kind appears to be beyond them. The danger in rote learning is that this habit may crowd out other kinds so that the individual, in the later years, does not become capable of rational and reflective thinking. 'There is certainly ample evidence on the part of many individuals and within many religious groups that memorization has persisted into adulthood, and that rational, reflective thinking has failed to become an integral part of religious experience. Middle and Later Childhood. By the time a child reaches six, his ideas of good and bad become broader and more general as in obeying, helping, hurting, etc. The idea of being fair becomes important and 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 moral evaluations are eventually made in terms of right and wrong. Increasingly, children between the ages of six to nine want to feel that they have done what is right and approved. Wrongdoing leaves them worried and unhappy, even though they may be reluctant to confess the act. During the earlier years, children regard themselves as the center of the universe, but during this age period, they establish a_ truer perspective of their relationship to other people. 'They are more interested in the idea of God, heaven, and angels, and their idea of God reflects more realistic concepts. Prayers are important to them, and they may expect immediate literal answers. From the ages of approximately nine through eleven, the child makes substantial growth in his understanding of and feelings toward right and wrong. He develops in tolerance, honesty, and justice. Many children during this period begin to show deep concern for the welfare of others. During this period children tend to accept religious teachings on the authority of parents and teachers and frequently quote these teachings in their own discussions. In summary of the religion of childhood, we may say that the child develops his first attitudes and ideas about God and religion from his parents and teachers, and that he tends to accept ideas from persons of authority. Since he has not yet reached the stage in the maturational process for abstract thinking, the child's religious experiences are essentially unreflective. During the early years, the child is essentially self-centered, which is normal at this stage of development; and during the later years of childhood shows evidence of becoming genuinely concerned about others. A great deal of what passes for religion among children is simply the repeating of faith as by rote, or the performance of religious motions. Most of the child's religious behavior up to this time appears to be primarily learned through imitation and suggestion. The lesson that we should learn is respect for the child's religion which we can improve only if we first respect it. Appropriate to the child's age, it must be expressed in the child's own way. If we prune too closely, it will either yield stunted fruit or become merelv a third-rate mockery of what religion ought to be. Religious Development in Adolescence During the years of about eleven through thirteen, the conscience becomes more apparent. At this stage children exhibit strong feelings about honesty. Feelings of guilt based on both real and imagined wrongdoings become more common. Their sense of justice remains strong, and they are quick to challenge the teacher or parent who violates it. Some of them will begin to question the religious teachings of parents and teachers. They begin to exhibit more concern for others and are more willing to be helpful without any tangible reward. As we move into the later adolescent period involving the years from fourteen to eighteen, we find a great deal of idealism existing within the individual. Adolescents now are making more of their own decisions about right and wrong LESSON DEPARTMENT rather than simply imitating the standards of their parents. 'They have more questions and perhaps increasing skepticism about religious values. Many teenagers drop out of church activity during these years, and surveys reveal that, in the United States, only about half of the members of this age group attend church regularly. It may well be that youth at this age become dissatished with what many of the churches offer and tend to turn away from them because they fail to meet their needs. Adolescence being a_ period of idealism, enthusiasm, and creativity, is a period in which self-direction begins to emerge. We have the example of Joseph Smith who went into the woods to pray at age fourteen to find out for himself which was the right church. To summarize this stage of religious development, then, we recognize that this is the age of greatest religious potentiality. It is during this period that the fruits of our efforts dramatically reveal themselves. If a child's parents have preached a gospel of love, but have demonstrated no affection for him, no amount of indoctrination concerning the exalted character of love can fill the vacuum. Where there is a sharp discrepancy in the home between standards that are professed and attitudes that are actually put into practice, the young person may feel hopeless and have a sense of frustration. The higher the professed ideals, the more intense the adolescent's sense of failure may become. The Religion of Mature Adulthood This section will be brief inas- 781 much as last year's series devoted two lessons dealing with religious maturity. It is recommended that the reader review lessons four and five from last year. (See Relief Society Magazine, November and December 1959, pp. 775-781; 855- 860. ) If an individual is going to grow toward the kind of religious maturity we hope to develop, he will find it helpful to have a secure developmental pre-adult foundation. As an adult, he should not have to deflect his energies into refighting childhood battles or nursing old hurts. Unless the individual in childhood has been able to establish basic trusts, his world is quicksand. Without basic trust he cannot establish trust in himself and others, cannot develop a feeling of individuality and a healthy concept of himself which allow him to live comfortably with himself and others. When a person can live with his past without being bogged down in it, he remains adaptable, capable of continued growth. The individual with a mature religious philosophy has found acceptable, realistic, tentative answers for the basic questions regarding life, but he has not insisted upon final answers for all of his questions. He is still constantly seeking to understand himself and others more fully, to expand and increase the quality of his relatedness to the world, and to find increasing satisfaction in his creative relationship with God. Still, we wonder why down through the ages religion has failed to teach people how to live together in love so that our rapidly increasing knowledge of destructive weapons has now reached a point where 782 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 all humanity is threatened. The answer is, we are talking love but not living it. "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you," is a principle which must be done, not talked about. A mature concept of religion, then, is not a gush of sentiment or a ritual of worship. Th ree Part It is the underlying philosophy by which one truly lives and without Choruses which one has 2 sense of moral in- () BETHLEHEM Bowker ec. 20 completeness. The religion of a mature adult is what he does, not (I ) BETHLEHEM BELLS—Dunhill.18 what he professes. (I) BIRTHDAY OF A KING— he relic; f NIST eee ee 20 In summary then, the religion o () CANTIQUE DE NOEL—Adam...22 the mature adult is one which helps 2) GPRIGH IS BERN GEMATE him feel at home with himself, at Nyquist ecco ccccscecssusesssssceceee 20 home in the world, and_ helps () CHRISTMAS CANDLE—Warren.22 him establish creative relationships () COME, HASTEN, YE with his fellow man and with his SHEPHERDS—Ehret ooccccceccseeee 25 God. It has helped him develop ( ) GESU, BAMBINO—Yon 20 genuine concern tor other people () JOY TO THE WORLD—Marzo.20 and respect for their individuality. Es) A WELDER 8 I) WANDER It has taught him not to accept Niles 20 values ready-made, but rather to realize that he not only has the ( ) NOWELL—Brett 2.022 ---- 16; a. Right but the responsibility to exam- (I) O HOLY NIGHT—Adam.20; ine carefully any and every aspect Se aac" hme of his philosophy. This latter point ee r was dramatically expressed by John as A. Widtsoe as follows: ( ) VIRGIN'S SLUMBER SONG— Che [I ee.20 The essential thought must ever be that Music Sent on Approval a man does not, except in his spiritual.. Infancy, accept a statement merely because Use this advertisement as your order blank. Aa be eee? SS ___ the Church or someone in authority deBARES ae COMPANY clares it correct, but because, under mature. Isf Sout.:: One I salt Lake City 11, Utah examination it is found to be true and right and worthwhile (WiuptTsor, JouN A.: Please send the music indicated above. - [}] On Approval [J Charge Program of the Church, Fourth Edition, 1! 4 I I I J [] Money Enclosed! I I! \ J ' I 1 1 i: page 24). 1 i Name — ( pes aes eeececscnsseeccccnnnaesee Summary ol ee ee We have said that a child is born "7 } with the potentialities of developing Daynes Miasic divine characteristics within his hu- = (_cmpoamuyman nature. Beginning in childhood ae, eMenseae the individual goes through stages Salt Lake City 11, Utch {of religious development, moving LESSON DEPARTMENT ideally to a point in mature adulthood of possessing mature religious concepts which are functional and useful to him. As is true in all other facets of human growth and development, appropriate timing for presenting information and experiences is particularly important in order for optimum learning to take place. 'The great responsibility of parents and teachers lies in leading a child step by step toward new powers and new understanding without pushing him too fast or expecting more than he can do. Parents do this best when they enjov each new step with him, sharing his own pleasure in his new accomplshments and encouraging him to develop in his own special way without showing great anxiety when he does not appear to be molding himself into a stereotyped pattern. Like the good husbandman who knows that there is a time to till and a time to refrain from tilling, a "time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted," so the sensitive parent or responsible teacher mingles care with forbearance if the "tree planted by the river of water" is to bring forth fruit in due seasons. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is it important to be aware of various stages of religious development? 2. Give illustrations of ways in which basic religious concepts could be appropriately taught at various stages of religious development. 3. Give illustrations of presenting religious concepts that are inappropriate for an individual's understanding. 4. List suggestions of how we can help individuals grow into adults who have the characteristics of religious maturity. 783 PASADENA ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight days, Dec. 27-Jan. 3 including SAN DIEGO TIJUANA, MEXICO CATALINA ISLAND Spend an evening with Lawrence Welk Knotts Berry Farm, Marineland, Disneyland, Cinerama, China Town. Grandstand seats for Parade. Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Phone EM 3-5229 EL 9-8051 Your Best Buys in CRAFTS K. D. NOVELTY 1940 West 3500 South Salt Lake City 4, Utah AM 6-8163 Art Foam and "Totes" Christmas Materials Artificial Flowers and Plants Florist Supplies Decorations Balloons Crepe Paper Eyes for Stuffed Toys Fish Pond Items Carnival Supplies Many Other Items Wholesale and Retail (Catalogs Available) 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Continued from page 728) At the present time the missionary program of the Church is being greatly accelerated. _Proselyting methods are being improved and convert baptisms are being increased in amazing numbers. As the missionary program grows and expands, more missionaries are needed — young men and women of intelligence and testimony, circumspect in behavior, willing to devote a few years of their young manhood or womanhood to missionary work. The mothers of the Church play an important role in holding before their children the ideal of a mission, and in training them to serve as missionaries. 'his is an extremely important Church service for all mothers of the Church to perform — one that must be kept before us. We are advised by President Henty D. Moyle that wonderful records of conversions have been set through a proselyting system called "the referral system," whereby names of persons who are nonmembers of the Church are referred to the missionaries by members, friends, relatives, and acquaintances. 'The missionaries then call upon these nonmembers. Having been given _ their names by a mutual friend, acquaintance, or relative, proves to be a nat: ural introduction and an effective entree for the missionary in presenting the gospel message. 'The referral system is greatly increasing the number of baptisms, we are told, and it is cutting down the tedious, less profitable door-to-door tracting. It would seem that if our Relief Society members would take note of this and refer to mission _presidents, the names of nonmember friends or relatives who may be living in the mission field or in the stakes, it would be an effective method of sharing those blessings which we today hold so dear. I urge you to lend support at this time to the referral program, both as officers of the Society and as individuals. Relief Society work is a joyous, enlightening, satisfying experience for any woman who devotedly enters into it. Nonetheless, it is a serious and responsible work which calls for humility, faith, prayer, and the intelligent application of our energies and talents to our respective assignments 'This is a day of tremendous growth and expansion in the Church. Relief Society must measure up to its full responsibilities as an auxiliary of the Church. May the Lord bless each one of us to appreciate the importance of our calling in relation to the work of the Church as a whole, and may each one of us direct her energies toward building a strong Relief Society. > Garn ing otearn ing Roberta L. Theobald How gently firm The lessons must be taught. How short the term To teach that knowledge is not bought. Jo an Aged, Beroft Nlother Zara Sabin So, they are all tucked in— Each in his lone, low bed, Among his friends and kin— May your heart be comforted. When in their youth you would wait Their return with weary sighs— Though sometimes they were late, You did not close your eyes Until the last straggler had come To your side for a good-night kiss... Once more they have all come home, Never to be remiss. Your days will be lonely, yes, Your heart will often weep. May he, who rules wisely, bless You now with restful sleep. ~~ She Listening Ones Leslie Savage Clark These are the listening ones, The women-folk who wait Some dear returning step And hand upon the gate. Music fills their lives, These fortunate who heard, In the dark, a baby's cry, And a child's whispered word. —— WVild Geese Matia McClelland Burk One night when the moon was shining And the autumn flowers were dead, I heard the wild geese crying, Crying overhead. A whispering voice was luring Them swiftly far away. I stood there hushed and listening. What did that strange voice say? Christmas Special Jessie Evans Smith's Amazing New Invention MAGNA-VU The best Christmas gift possible for a loved one. Help them to see better so they can work with both hands by using a "Magna-Vu." It is supported by an adjustable strap around the neck. With this beautiful chrome-plated magnifying glass you can again thread needles, sew, read, etc. You can do many of the things you used to do. A handy aid for workday. $5.00 each prepaid Send money fo: SUPPLY HOUSE Box F. G. 145 Salt Lake City, Utah New Year Rose Parade Tour Tour for HAWAITI leaving in November and December Mediterranean Tour Cruise for 39 Day March 15 to April 24 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 Page 785 786 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 Music For Christmas IN YOUR CHURCH, HOME or for GIFTS [I] Christmas Carols __.35 For church, home or community singing. Unison or four-part mixed voices. Folio of 31 songs. Add 5c for postage and tax. [} Songs We Sing 2.95 From Rodgers and Hammerstein. Easier edition with words. Illustrated and bound. Add 26c¢ for postage and tax. [_] Family Music Book 6.00 800 pages, 300 favorites. Hard back binding. Add 44c for postage and tax. [_] Jerome Kern Song Book ____ -- -.-7.50 All of his favorites. Rodgers and Hammerstein --.- ------------12.50 Original music of all their shows —South Pacific, Carousel, etc. Beautifully bound. Stories and Pictures. Add 60c for postage and fax. USE THIS AD AS YOUR ORDER FORM. CHECK THE ONES AND HOW MANY YOU WANT. Glen Bros. Music Co. 246 So. Main Salt Lake City, Utah Beginning and advanced classes start soon. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah MY THIRD GRANDMA (Continued from page 751) cause she was deeply philosophical and Christian, even with this Hindu culture which she never forgot, she could not resist making a moral story out of an ant hill adventure. Never take a life. Never crush a living creature with your feet. Always provide for the needs of living things. Be kind and loving to all of God's creatures. I skirt around an ant bed to this day! — Snowbird Ethel Jacobson My Snowbird is playing In winter's first snow, Hooded and mittened, White head to toe— All but the nose That's growing quite rosy Snowbird, come in Where the fire is cosy! GET FULL HOUSEPOWER TS" HOUSEPQWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Birthday Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. ABIGAIL STAMFORD Cox Hitchin, England Mrs. Hutpa A. ERICKSON Grantsville, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. KaruryNne Rocers GAuUFF Wenatchee, Washington Ninety-six Mrs. Mary ELizaBeTH JENSEN BINGHAM; Los Angeles, California Ninety-five Mrs. EvisE OvVERN OLSEN Drammen, Norway Mrs. SELENA ANN WaLt SHAW Aurora, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Mary Hecstrep Rawson Ogden, Utah Mrs. ANNIE NorBERG GLADE NUTTALL Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Evizapetu Tuomas SHAw Los Angeles, California Ninety-one Mrs. Mary R. Murpnuy Norris Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary ELLEN Swann Toone Gooding, Idaho Mrs. Ruopa ANN MCCLELLAN CARDON E] Paso, 'Texas Mrs. HeLten Hoyr Morritu Junction, Utah Mrs. Ottve D. ANDERSON Nephi, Utah Ninety Mrs. ANNIE Kins BuRNHAM Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Vioter AMELIA GLEDHILL ANDERSON Richfield, Utah Mrs. Emity Jupp Toone Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jutra Booru Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amanpa JANE Moon Duncan Neola, Utah Mrs. Marcaret Maxwertit Urry Salt Lake City, Utah 24 E. Broadway Choose from an enchanted wonderland of gifts Mail and phone orders promptly filled 1047 E. 21st S. Sugar House Salt Lake City ee ee NS ~ e e Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Page /87 MOLIYYTYYTLYYOOY OMNI TLYY CUNY MYT LM YEU YLT LTT NIYLL NTL NY LWT LN TILYTLLNILNONTMITELNIT NON eT NTL C, J Available at Office of the General Board ° > 76 North Main ristmas if ts Salt Lake City 11, Utah "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY _ FATHER'S BUSINESS?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library.