[Vol47 | November 1960 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: Orchids | Author: Lloyd]
fruit cocktail (drained ) Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER 7 Rosa Lee Lloyd Synopsis: Sharry and Sam Wynter, newlyweds from Utah, make many friends in their new home in Alaska, including Angus McFarland, a widower, his daughter Marie, and Susan and Herman Elge from Bristol Bay. Sister Jensen, President of the branch Relief Society in Fairbanks, introduces Sharon to Mary Billings, who is blind, and to other neighbors. Sharon and Sam repair a log cabin for their home, and Marie comes from Anchorage to visit them. When Sharon finds that she is expecting a child she sends for Aunt Jewel, a nurse. McFarland brings Jewel from Anchorage to Fairbanks in his plane. Later, when Sharon is feeling well enough to travel, the Wynters, Marie, and Aunt Jewel go to visit McFarland and Herman and Susan Elge in Bristol Bay. Jewel leaves for a ten-mile trip by dog team at once after their arrival to nurse a very ill woman. HARRY was awakened by the S shrieking storm. The radium hands of her wrist watch were the only speck of light in the black night. It was after midnight. "Sam," she called. "Are awake, dear?" He sat up rubbing his eyes. "Some you wind! Sounds like a steam roller!" "It's awful. I'm scared for Aunt Jewel." "Yes — I hope they make it okay. Listen to that ice splinter against the windows!" He got out of bed and made his way to the living room in the darkness. Sharry slipped on her robe, following him. Marie was there already. "Tl get the storm lantern," she said. "It's in the kitchen. This sounds like a real shocker." Sharry and Sam dressed hurriedly while Marie got the lantern. "Put on your parka," Sam told her. "It's freezing. We can't build a fire with this wind running wild." Sam was eyeing the big front window overlooking the bay. It was creaking and moaning with each furious blast of wind. "We'll have to brace it," Marie said. "Help me get the iron grating and the two-by-fours from the storage hall. The wind is off the Bay. Hear the waves lashing!" "Stay here, honey,' Sam_ told Sharry. He pushed her gently into the leather chair, "Here—cover up with this blanket." "But I want to help,' Sharry cried. There was a thunderous roar on the roof. "There goes the chimney!" Marie called. "The wires holding it have snapped. [I'm glad the fire was out. Here, Sharry, guard this lantern. If the wind catches the flame, smother it with your blanket." They disappeared into the blackness. Sharry shivered as she watched the lantern. Suddenly the wind swept through the fireplace, raced through the living room, tumbling everything loose in its path. It roared into the kitchen, banging kettles on their hooks, sweeping dishes and glasses to the floor. Sharry was terrified. Aunt Jewel was out there somewhere in this awful storm. Oh, please, dear Heavenly Page 755 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 Father, she prayed, bless her and McFarland and all of us. Sam and Marie worked furiously to reinforce the windows. Sharry tried to help them, but Marie pushed her out of the way. "Watch that lantern!' she demanded. "That's your job." Marie was her father's daughter, fighting like a little tigress hour after hour. Sam worked right along with her, lugging the huge pieces of lumber, bracing them in exactly the right places. "That's perfect, Sam," Sharry heard Marie's voice above the storm. "I wouldn't have known enough to put it there." Sam knows so many things, Sharry thought. He always figures everything exactly right. HE lantern flame flickered, then flamed to the top of the chimney. Sharry screamed to them. "Get under the blanket with it," Marie called back. "Don't be such a fraidy cat!" "But [ am afraid!' Sharry cried out. "I can't help it. Aunt Jewel is out there freezing, and you say not to be afraid. It sounds crazy!" There was a lull in the storm. Marie turned to Sharry in the weird silence that followed. Her face was strained in the lantern light. Her freckles were spots of gold in her pale face. "Listen, Sharry," she said, in a deadly, solemn voice. "This is life in Bristol. I was reared in this country, and it's no joy ride. Jewel might as well know what it's like before she marries my Dad!" "I hope she doesn't marry him!" Sharry replied angrily. "I hope she has better sense than to marry him and live in this wild forsaken place —I'd rather die." Her voice broke in little pieces. Sam was staring at her, his blue eyes stricken as though she had struck him physically. "Oh, no!" She closed her eyes against his look. "I didn't mean it — please forgive me." The wind rose again in sudden fury, drowning her voice. Sam reached for another blanket and tucked it around her before he turned again to the windows. Gradually the wind whined to a low moan, then finally stopped. "It's gone out to sea," Marie said, throwing herself on the lounge. "It wont come back tonight. The windows are safe, Sam. The roof is still on. We can sleep in peace." Sam lifted Sharry in his arms and carried her into the bedroom. "It's been too much for you," he said in his tender way. His eyes avoided hers. She knew he was deeply hurt by what she had said, but he did not mention it. He slept exhaustedly. GHARRY awakened at ten o'clock the next morning. The sky, from the bedroom window, was a dim wash of gold above the Bay. She closed the door and hurried to the kitchen, hoping to get the broken glasses and dishes swept up before Sam and Marie awakened. The delicious odor of frying food greeted her as she went in. "Susan! How good to see you. You've cleaned up in here." Susan was cooking on a small, portable oil stove. She smiled at Sharry. "TY heard the chimney tumble so I knew the range couldn't be used. ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW I brought my little stove. You need something hot, dear. 'This is powdered milk but it tastes real good." Sharry sat on the stool, sipping the hot milk. "Try a piece of this fried mush," Susan urged her. "It's crispy good with jam." "T — can't eat," Sharry murmured. "I know," Susan said. "Storms are upsetting. It used to take me days to get over one when we first came here." "The storm was awful," Sharry said, "but it wasn't just the storm. I said something mean — I wish I hadn't." Brokenly she told Susan how she had flared out at Marie; that Sam had heard what she said. Now he knew how she felt about living in Alaska. Susan turned another piece of mush, then she sat down in a chair opposite Sharry. "Life is full of storms," she said, her dark eyes tender with understanding. "We must ride them out, Sharry. Prayerfully and trustingly. Don't ever let a shadow of any kind come between you and your husband. He is God's blessing to you. You must always come first with each other." The clock on the table ticked on steadily. Sharry looked at Susan's toilworn hands folded in her lap. Her face was lined and looked older than her years. She was only Jewel's age. 'Time was running out for her husband, and she knew it. Each tick of the clock brought the parting nearer. And yet — Susan's eyes were those of a woman who looks 157 beyond the trials of each day toward some brighter tomorrow. "We have had a good life together, Herman and I." Her voice was so low Sharry bent her head to hear her. "We have fought things through together, storm or shine, sick or well. Herman always put me first. 'That to me is the sweetest part of marriage — you always come first with each other. What does it matter where you have to live if you have each other?" Sharry couldn't speak for the great hot lump in her throat. She held Susan's hand for a long, quiet moment. Then Susan lifted her head. Her eyes held a new promise. "I have sent for my son Swenson," she said. "He should be here this week. 'That will make Marie happy, I hope." "Marie?" Sharry questioned as a little bell tinkled in her mind. Marie had told her she was in love with a boy who thought she was still a little girl. It must be Swenson! "He has told us of girl friends," Susan went on. "But there is no special girl. Does Marie have a special boy?" Sharry shook her head. "I think she has been waiting for Swenson," she confided. "But that's her secret. Susan, it would be wonderful for you if Swenson stayed here in Bristol." GUSAN'S face sobered. "That is too much to hope for," she answered. "He is a surgeon. 'The hospital in Anchorage needs surgeons. I will be contented if he is there." The door opened and Marie came in. She looked fresh as a rosebud 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 with no traces of the strenuous night on her bright face. "Umm! Fried mush. My favorite," she said. "Have you tried it, Sharry?" "No — but I will," Sharry said as Sam came in. "Try what?" he laughed. "Susan, you're a great cook. I'm hungry as a bear!" He stooped to kiss Sharry. "How's my sweetheart?" he asked her as though that was the most important thing in the world. "Fine," she answered, smiling up at him. He was clear-eyed and happy this morning. Sharry wondered if he had really forgotten what she had said to Marie last night. Maybe he hadn't heard, she thought, hopefully. But she was still heartsick about it, wondering what he was really thinking under his pleasant manner. Sam was like that. He thought things through carefully before he discussed them. During the next two days, everyone worked strenuously to get everything back to normal before Jewel and McFarland returned. 'There had been no word from them, and by the third day Sharry's eyes were constantly anxious as she stood at the window peering through field glasses into the blue darkness. "They are all right," Susan assured her. "I feel it — here. I have a good feeling when I think of them." Marie said, "Come on, Sharry. Get your guitar. Let's sing for Uncle Herman. You, too, Sam," she called. He was enjoying McFarland's books that lined the walls of the den. "We need your harmony." "That's quite a library," Sam said, as he sat down beside them. "He has every kind of book from encyclopedias to the latest fiction." "Yes," Marie said. "My Dad has a theory. He says that to be a successful Alaskan you have to like to read a book. So you're a successful Alaskan, Sam." Her eyes met his with frank admiration. "In every way, I'd say. Very successful." HARRY looked at Sam. He winced. He put the book he had brought with him on the table. His smile was forced. Where was his boyish grin? She wondered. Sam usually liked a real compliment. He's hurt deep inside, she thought with a little stab. He hasn't forgotten what I said last night about Alaska. "What song shall we sing, Uncle Herman?" Marie asked. Susan arranged the pillows so Herman was in a sitting position. As Sharry watched them her throat tightened. How wistfully Herman looked at Susan as though treasuring every minute of his time with her, grateful for all the rugged years they had shared together. Sharry had realized in the last two days that Herman was a man of dauntless faith. It was the courage in his ready smile in spite of pain, in the unconquerable lift of his chin, and it was always shining in his loving blue eyes when Susan was near him. It was faith and courage that gave his voice a confident, lilting ring when he sang with them, forgetting the weakness of his failing body, strumming his guitar along with Sharry and Marie. Sharry was grateful for her own unwavering belief in eternal life when she watched Herman and Susan. Such love as theirs would never die, even though Herman ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW would leave her for awhile. Would be together again. So they could all sing bravely and cheerfully together. "T like the ballads,' Herman said. "They have a rhythm to them. You take the first verse, Marie, and we'll come in for the chorus." "Okay!" Sam said. "Swing off, Marie. Let's start with "Ballad of Rocky Point.' " They were still singing an hour later when the sound of dogs barking came across the snow. 'Then a long "Hellooo" in McFarland's voice. Marie ran to the door. Looooo!" she called back. McFarland and Jewel came in smiling, their faces the color of ripe peaches and their eyes shining. A little halo of happiness glowed around them. McFarland's laugh was like big bells chiming. "Greatest trip of my life!" he said, swinging Jewel's hands. "The wind peppered the sleet against us like cold lead, the dogs were mean as wolves, but we plugged on. We finally got there, near morning. Katie was mighty sick. I was afraid we were too late. But Jewel pulled her through. I've never seen anyone, except Susan, work as hard as Jewel did to save a life. Massage, hot packs — you must have used a ton of mustard, Jewel." "Not quite," she laughed. "But a mustard plaster is still mighty good for congestion. We had no professional medication — I had to ask myself what grandmother Haskell would do in a case like this." "T remembered you used hot fish oil last year, Susan,' McFarland added. "HelThey 159 "She needs her tonsils out, too," Jewel explained. "I told Johnny to bring her in as soon as she can travel sled,' McFarland went on. "We'll fly her to the hospital in Anchorage." "Wait for Swen," Susan said unexpectedly. "He'll be here this week. He can do it right here in the kitchen." Marie dropped the poker she had been using in the fireplace. Her blue eyes were fire-bright, as she looked up at Susan. Sharry knew he was the one Marie loved. McFarland listened while they told about the windstorm. "It was a dilly," Marie said. "But afterwards it was nice and calm, as usual. Sam got up on the roof and mended the chimney so we can use it." "We need a lot of new things," McFarland said. He reached for Jewel's hands again, drawing her: close to him. "I want everything new and wonderful for Jewel." He drew a long deep breath. Everyone was staring at them. Ce JEWEL has promised to marry me and live here in Bristol with me," he said. His voice was rich with love and pride. "I am the luckiest man in the world to have a wife like Jewel." Jewel's eyes were tear-drenched with happiness and fulfillment. "I am the lucky one," she said, softly. "Sharry, remember — I caught your bouquet. I didn't think it would ever happen to me." "But it did, Aunt Jewel!" Sharry breathed. "It really did. We are so glad!" McFarland included them all in his big smile. 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 "Jewel and I are leaving tonight and flying to Los Angeles to be married in the temple. We have missed too many years together already, but..." he held his hand up, "we ll return immediately for a wedding reception right here in Bristol Village." His voice mellowed as he looked at Herman and Susan. "Herman will be my best man," he said, his eyes holding Herman's in a long look of tender understanding. "We all know what a wedding reception means to the people of Bristol Bay. It must be just the kind they want, the kind to which they are accustomed. Jewel has agreed with me on this. We wouldn't cheat them out of it, if we had to fly around the world to get back. Susan knows how everything should be done. Marie, too." Marie's eyes were dancing approval. "Oh, goodie!" she cried, as she put her strong young arms around Jewel youre just perfect for my Dad. Now I have two Mamas. Mama Sue and Mama Jewel. Am I a lucky girl!" "You are!" Sam joined in. "A mighty lucky girl!" McFarland put his parka on again. "TIl have to send messages from the radio station. And see that my plane is in tip-top condition to fly to Anchorage. We'll take the jet plane from there. There's a lot of planning to do for a wedding," he said in his commanding way. "We must all get busy. Sam, ride sled with me while the girls get dinner." Sharry stood close by while Sam put on his heavy boots, parka, and fur cap. "Hurry back," she whispered as he stooped to kiss her. He put his hand under her chin, tipping her face so he could look at her. His eyes were deep blue question marks as he went out into the azure darkness of the winter afternoon. And hugged her tightly. "I think Sane Silver Web Mabel Law Atkinson (To be concluded) Dear Granny's voice held flute-tones bright as dawn, "Call not the spider's weaving gray, my child, But a shining silver web an artist styled. Come, you must put my star-rimmed glasses on To see a crocus thrusting through the clod; A lilac blossom with an April breeze Light dancing a ballet; view emerald seas Of meadows daisy-crested, not mere sod." A silver web of beauty! Granny's art I came to understand: As years sped swift The commonplace illumed when I would lift My eyes and see with vision of the heart. To Granny's garden, walled by crumbling stone, I have returned, and through nostalgic tears I view the silver web spun by the years, For I have star-rimmed glasses of my own. 7 LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 29—The Law of Administration to the Sick Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 42:43-52) For Tuesday, February 7, 1961 Objective: To learn some principles of the law of administration to the sick. Background The introduction of Section 42 of The Doctrine and Covenants has been given in other lessons. In general, the receiving of this revelation arose out of the Lord's recognition of the poverty of some saints. 'The law concerning this condition and the promises of the Lord that the earth is to bring forth its fulness for the benefit of his people "in the due time of the Lord" is provided in this revelation. We have already learned that there are other laws mentioned in this revelation, one of which is the subject of this lesson. Objective of This Lesson Although reference is made to the working of miracles, including healings, in other revelations yet to be studied, this lesson will be limited in subject matter to some of the principles of administration to the sick. All of the ramifications of this important subject are not to be discussed in this lesson. Some Aspects of This Ordinance The healing of a person's infirmity, or disease, or the correction of some impediment such as in speech, use of legs or arms, have always been a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ. One of the most direct references to the practice of administering to the sick during the meridian dispensation is that given in the New Testament, as follows: Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord: And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much (james 5:14-16). There are several factors to be noted in James' counsel concerning Page 761 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 this ordinance. One of these is that the Lord provided in his plan such an ordinance as administration to the sick by the elders of the Church. In other places in the New 'Testament are found references to the laying on of the hands for this purpose. 'The Savior said that his believers should "... Lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover" (Mark 16:18). In our own dispensation, the Prophet Joseph Smith has told us that the sign of the healing of the sick is the laying on of hands. (See D. H. C., lV:555.) The use of oil is indicated by James as a part of the ordinance of administration to the sick. In the call and commission to the Twelve Apostles, it is recorded by Mark that Jesus,... Called unto him the twelve, and began to send them forth by two and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits. And they went out, and preached that men should repent. And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them (Mark 6:7, 12-13). After asking this question "Can not the Lord hear prayer and heal the sick just as well without laying on of hands and anointing with oil as with?" Elder Pratt said: He could have thrown down the walls of Jericho without the children of Israel walking around them and blowing rams' horns; but the Lord has a form, then why not comply with it, and leave the event with him (Journal of Discourses 16:290). A frequently raised question arising out of James' instructions is this one answered by President Joseph Fielding Smith: James says when a man administers to a sick person he has power to remit his sins; how does the elder get power to remit sins?" It is not the elder who remits or forgives the sick man's sins, but the Lord. If by the power of faith and through the administration by the elders the man is healed it is evidence that his sins have been forgiven. It is hardly reasonable to think that the Lord will forgive the sins of a man who is healed if he has not repented. Naturally he would repent of his sins if he seeks for the blessings by the elders (Smirnu, Josep FIExpinc, "Your Questions," The Improvement Era, August 1955, page 607). The Lord Speaks to Us From the law of the Lord: And whosoever among you are sick, and have not faith to be healed, but believe, shall be nourished with all tenderness, with herbs and mild food, and that not by the hand of an enemy. And the elders of the church, two or more, shall be called, and shall pray for and lay their hands upon them in my name; and if they die they shall die unto me, and if they live they shall live unto me (D & C 42:43-44). The elders of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are to administer to the members of the kingdom of God in this dispensation by the "prayer of faith" and the power of the Priesthood. Rather than restricting or limiting the operations of the Priesthood of God, the fulness of times is the period when greater evidence of the power of the Lord is to be manifest. This dispensation is the time of gather-, ing together in one all dispensations of times to culminate in the salvation of mankind. In the beginning of this dispensation, the Lord said in his preface to The Doctrine and Covenants that he had established LESSON DEPARTMENT the gospel upon the earth "That faith also might increase in_ the earth; That mine everlasting covenant might be established" (D & C 1:21-22). Medical Aid? Throughout the law of administration to the sick, as given in Section 42, emphasis is placed upon the principle of faith in bringing about a restoration to health. (See D& C 42:48-51.) It does not follow, however, that Latter-day Saints believe that the use of medicine and the skill of the surgeon are not to be used. In commenting upon verses 43 and 44 of this revelation, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (Revised Edition, 1951, page 232) gives the following information: The Latter-day Saints believe in the healing virtue of the prayer of faith, but they do not proscribe the use of "herbs and mild food," nor the aid of a physician. In the month of November, 1842, Brigham Young was seriously ill. In his diary the Prophet Joseph notes that, "He was suddenly and severely attacked by disease, with strong symptoms of apoplexy," and then he adds, "We immediately administered to him by laying on of hands and prayer, accompanied with the use of herbs." Under date of December 26th, 1842, the Prophet writes: General Law gave me in custody of Doctor Richards, with whom I visited Sister Morey, who was severely afflicted. We prescribed Lobelia for her, among other things, which is excellent in its place (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 232). Revelation Continued In continuing this law the Lord reveals some important truths relative to the Latter-day Saints' attitude toward the dead and also the bless- 763 ing awaiting the faithful of his kingdom. Thou shalt live together in love, insomuch that thou shalt weep for the loss of them that die, and more especially for those that have not hope of a glorious resurrection. And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them; And they that die not in me, wo unto them, for their death is bitter. And again, it shall come to pass that he that hath faith in me to be healed, and is not appointed unto death, shall be healed. He who hath faith to see shall see. He who hath faith to hear shall hear. The lame who hath faith to leap shall leap. And they who have not faith to do these things, but believe in me, have power to become my sons; and inasmuch as they break not my laws thou shalt bear their infirmities (D & C 42:45-52). Death is a part of the eternal plan of the Father. Jacob taught that death "... Hath passed upon all men, to fulfil the merciful plan of the great Creator..." (2 Nephi 9:6). The Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of death as the last enemy to be overcome. (See D. H. C. V:387-388.) The ancient prophets heralded the day when the bands of death would be broken by the resurrection of the body from the grave. 'Thus, there would be no victory in the grave. Life would be endless. 'The removal of death by the resurrection was proclaimed as a grand objective of the atonement of Christ. Sorrow would depart from the land in the realization that no longer would there be a parting of loved ones. (See 2 Nephi 9:19; 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 Mosiah 15:20; 16:9; I Cor. 15:53-55; D & C 63:49.) They That Die Not Unto the Lord A scene of mourning is depicted in The Book of Mormon account of the great destruction upon this continent when the Savior was crucified. (See 3 Nephi 8:23-25.) Following this destruction a voice was heard, crying: "Wo, wo, wo unto this people; wo unto the inhabitants of the whole earth except they shall repent; for the devil laugheth, and his angels rejoice, because of the slain of the fair sons and daughters of my people " (3 Nephi 9:2). But for what reason was there rejoicing on the part of the devil and his cohorts? The scripture continues, "... And it is because of their iniquity and abominations that they are fallen" (3 Nephi 9:2). So strongly did the Nephites feel against the necessity of taking the lives of the Lamanites in the days of Helaman and Moroni (the great general and prophet) that they sorrowed in sending so many "... Out of this world into an eternal world, unprepared to mect their God" (Alma 48:22-25). Mormon's lamentation over the fallen Nephites in the last great battle with the Lamanites reminds one of the eternal truth that all must stand before the judgment-seat of Christ where every man will be rewarded according to justice and mercy. (See Mormon 6:16-22.) "Death Shall Be Sweet Unto Them" When death strikes in a family, it is natural to weep for the loss thus sustained. The extent of such mourning, among Latter-day Saints, however, may also be determined by the circumstances. President John Taylor had this to say at a funeral service: It is proper to sorrow; it is proper to show respect for the departed. It is proper that our sympathies should be drawn out; it is proper that we should assemble together to attend to appropriate funeral services, as we are now doing, that we may reflect upon our lives and upon the uncertainty thereof, and upon death and the results that may follow after; and that we consider the Gospel of the Son of God, and reflect upon our position, etc.... We, above all other people upon the face of the earth, ought to be free from outward show, and from the appearance of sorrow, and mourning, having had planted within us the germs of immortality and eternal life; inasmuch as when we get through with the affairs of this world, we not only expect, but we know that we will inherit eternal lives in the celestial kingdom of God. And knowing this, it would not be for us to mourn as people without any hope (Journal of Discourses 22:355). In quoting the words of President Joseph F. Smith, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (page 232) gives the following statement which applies to the expressions from the text of our lesson "... And if they die they shall die unto me..." (D & C 42:44) and "... Those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them" (D & C 42:46). That which we call death is merely the slumber and rest of this mortal clay, and that only for a little season, while the spirit, the life, has gone to enjoy again the presence and society of those from whence it came, and to whom it is joy again to return. And this will be the condition of the righteous until the morning. Of the resurrection, when the spirit will have power to call forth the lifeless frame to be united again, and thcy both become LESSON DEPARTMENT a living soul, an immortal being, filled with the light and power of God. What reason have we to mourn? None, except that we are deprived for a few days of the society of one whom we love (Journal of Discourses 19:263). The same sermon from which the above excerpt is taken pertinently points out that the gospel is a message of hope and comfort: We live then, we do not die, we do not anticipate death; but we anticipate life, immortality, glory, exaltation, and to be quickened by the glory of the celestial kingdom, and receive of the same, even a fullness. 'This is our destiny; this is the exalted position to which we may attain, and there is no power that can deprive or rob us of it, if we prove faithful and true to the covenant of the Gospel (Journal of Discourses, 19:265). Faith to Be Healed The scriptures teach us that where faith is present, blessings follow. Miracles are performed by this principle. (See Mark 16:17-18.) Jesus said to the woman healed by him, "... Thy faith hath made thee whole..." (Mt. 9:22). On the other hand, no mighty miracles were performed by Jesus in "his own country' because of the unbelief of the people, who knew him as the carpenter; yet "... He laid his hands upon a few sick folk, and healed them" (Mark 6:5). (See Mark 6:1-6.) Upon one occasion Paul healed a lame man because he had faith to be healed (Acts 14:8-10). Are All of Faith to Be Healed? From an informative sermon by Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve, this thought is expressed on this question and the subject of pain, sorrow, and punishment: Now, we find many people critical 765 when a righteous person is killed, a young father or mother is taken from a family, or when violent deaths occur. Some become bitter when oft-repeated prayers seem unanswered. Some lose faith and turn sour when solemn administrations by holy men seem to be ignored and no restoration seems to come from repeated prayer circles. But if all the sick were healed, if all the righteous were protected and the wicked destroyed, the whole program of the Father would be annulled and the basic principle of the Gospel, free agency, would be ended. If pain and sorrow and total punishment immediately followed the doing of evil, no soul would repeat a misdeed. If joy and peace and rewards were instantaneously given the doer of good, there could be no evil — all would do good and not because of the rightness of doing good. There would be no test of strength, no development of character, no growth of powers, no free agency, only satanic controls. Should all prayers be immediately answered according to our selfish desires and our limited understanding, then there would be little or no suffering, sorrow, disappointment or even death, and if these were not there would also be an absence of joy, success, resurrection, eternal life and Godhood (KimBALL, SPENCER W.: "Tragedy or Destiny,'"' address to the Brigham Young University Student Body, December 6, 1955, pp. 4-5). Elder Kimball continues in pointing out that death is a part of life's experiences: Everyone must die. Death is an important part of life. Of course, we are never quite ready for the change. Not knowing when it should come, we properly fight to retain our life. Why are we so afraid of death? We pray for the sick — we administer to the afflicted —- we implore the Lord to heal and reduce pain and save life and postpone death, and properly so, but is eternity so frightful? So awful? The Lord takes many away even in infancy, that they may escape the envy 766 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 of man and the sorrows and evils of this present world; they were too pure, too lovely, to live on this earth. Therefore, if rightly considered, instead of mourning we have reason to rejoice as they are delivered from evil and we shall have them again. The only difference between the old and the young dying is, one lives longer in heaven and eternal light and glory than the other, and is freed a little sooner from this miserable world (KimBALL, SPENCER W..: "Tragedy or Destiny," address to the Brigham Young University Student Body, December 6, 1955, page 8). "Appointed Unto Death" In commenting upon the Lord's statement that "... He that hath faith in me to be healed, and is not appointed unto death, shall be healed" (D & C 42:48), Brother Kimball states in the source already quoted: If not "appointed unto death" and sufficient faith is developed, life can be spared. But if there is not enough faith many die before their time. It is evident that even the righteous will not always be healed and even those of great faith will die when it is according to the purpose of God. Joseph Smith died in his thirties as did the Savior. Solemn prayers were answered negatively. "If he is not appointed unto death!" That is a challenging statement. I am confident that there is a time to die. I am not a fatalist. I believe that many people die before "their time" because they are careless, abuse their bodies, take unnecessary chances, or expose themselves to hazards, accidents and _ sickness (KimBaLL, SPENCER W.: "Tragedy or Destiny," address to the Brigham Young University Student Body, December 6, 1955, pp. 6, 9). In confirmation of some of these ideas, Elder Kimball refers to the scripture in Job 22:15-16; Ecclesjastes 3:1-2, 7:17, with the stated behef that "we dic prematurely but seldom exceed our time very much though there are exceptions." As an exception, reference is made to King Hezekiah of Judah (2 Kings 20:1-6). Examples from The Book of Mormon bearing out the fact that efforts were made to bring some of the Lord's servants to an early death before their "time to die" were cited in the cases of Abinadi (Mosiah 13:3, 7; 17-19); and Lehi and Nephi, sons of Helaman, (Helaman 5:26, 29). Bible examples include Enoch (Moses 6:39), and Paul (2 Cor. 11:23-27; Phil. 1:23; Acts 21:13). In conclusion, Brother Kimball says: God controls our lives, guides and blesses us, but gives us our agency. We may live our lives in accordance with His plan for us or we may foolishly shorten or terminate them. I am positive in my mind that the Lord has planned our destiny. We can shorten our lives but I think we cannot lengthen them very much. Sometime we'll understand fully, and when we see back from the vantage point of the future we shall be satished with many of the happenings of this life which seemed so difficult for us to comprehend (KIMBALL, SPENCER W.: "Tragedy or Destiny," address to the Brigham Young University Student Body, December 6, 1955, pp. 11-12). Questions for Discussion 1. If faith in the Lord is necessary as a requisite to healing the sick, what evidence would you give that such faith is among the members of the Church in this dispensation? 2. Discuss: Latter-day Saints believe in making use of medical skill when needed. Why would you believe that death shall be sweet to the faithful Latter- -day Saint? LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. According to Elder Spencer W. Kimball, what is the meaning of the scripture that "... He that hath faith 767 in me to be healed, and is not appointed unto death, shall be healed" (D & C 42:48)? Uisiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 29—"Wherefore, I Am in Your Midst, and I Am the Good Shepherd "" (D & C 50:44) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, February 7, 1961 Objective: To persuade us that Jesus is with us and, if we live righteously and will seek him, he will guide, sustain, and comfort us. NE of the most beautiful examples of poetry ever composed is found in the Twenty-third Psalm, which begins with the immortal words: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want." This soul-stirring poem by the prophet David, has been, and likely will ever be, a source of comfort, inspiration, and uplifting guidance to most people. This is true not only because of the beauty: of its inspirational language, but, chiefly, because herein the Lord assures all of us that he is our shepherd and that even though we may be required to "... Walk through the valley of the shadow of death.. He is with us and his presence will sustain, comfort, and guide us. What a wonderful, consoling, and motivating conviction! How diligently and conscientiously we should strive for this conviction, for it is, in reality, a fact. Both anciently and in modern times the Lord has literally pleaded with us to have faith that he is with us, ready, willing, and anxious to help and suide. Us, if we will only live so as to build this conviction and to deserve his presence. The blessedness of this comforting conviction was brought again into vivid focus some time ago when a charming and talented woman passed away. She and her husband were a devoted couple, whose many years of marriage had prospered on the foundation of love, understanding, and faithful adherence to the principles of the gospel. Her loving husband was deeply shocked and severely bereaved at her passing, yet the positive assurance he possessed that the Lord was with him, and the Lord's promise, thro