[Vol47 | November 1960 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Report | Author: Spafford]
Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Condensed from the text given at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 5, 1960] REPORT of the status of Relief Society, based largely on information contained in the Annual Report of the Society, has long been a feature of this session of the Annual General Conference. General increases are noted in many aspects of the work for 1959. 'There are some divisions, however, which do not show growth. In some instances there appears to be justifiable reason for this. In others it seems that a greater awareness of subtle declines is needed and intensified effort in dealing with the problems. REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS General Board Since our last general conference, the General Board has been strengthened by the addition of four new members: Alice L. Wilkinson, Brigham Young University Stake; LaPriel S. Bunker, Parleys Stake; Marie C. Richards, Salt Lake Stake; and Irene W. Buehner, Parleys Stake. Organizations and Reorganizations Our Annual Report shows that during 1959 there were nineteen new stakes created and one new mission. 'There were 107 new ward organizations in the stakes and twenty-two new branch organizations in the missions, making at the close of 1959 a total of 336 stake and mission organizations, and 4,450 ward and branch organizations. Since January 1960, the first stake in Great Britain has been formed — the Manchester Stake, organized March 27, and the first stake in faraway Australia—the Sydney Stake, also organized March 27. The Missions We note an ever-increasing trend in missions towards strengthening the work of the Society through careful teaching of standard procedures. Also, great effort is being put forth to develop leadership among the sisters. In a number of instances, mission Relief Society boards have been appointed; and district boards, comparable to stake boards, operate in most missions. Leadership meetings are increasing in number and helps offered encompass most aspects of the work and are of high standard. The educational program seems to be well accepted in the missions. The bulletins and publications 723 issued by the various missions are so prepared as to be effective in promoting Relief Society work. We were delighted to receive recently the publication of the Chinese Mission called The Voice of the Saints issued in the Chinese language with English translations. The recent copy was a "special Relief Society issue." Membership, the collective body of Latter-day Saint women for whom the Society is designed, and upon whom we must rely in meeting our obligations to the Church as an auxiliary of the Church, requires continuous attention on the part
