[Vol47 | November 1960 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Temple | Author: Nibley]
TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH This historic building stood on the northwest corner of Temple Square. It was dedicated in May 1855, and was used for ordinance work almost continuously until November 1889, when it was torn down. Page 129 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 Courtesy Church Historian's Office THE LARGE TABERNACLE IN COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION Photograph taken about 1864, showing some of the stone pillars, arches, and supporting framework. 5 Logan, there was no further need for the Endowment House, and under the direction of the First Presidency, it was torn down. The Large Tabernacle The idea of building a large 'Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, one that would accommodate eight or nine thousand people, grew in the mind of President Young during the pioneer period. After the first 'Tabernacle was built in 1852, it was soon found to be too small to hold the large numbers of people who came to attend the conferences. In a letter written by George A. Smith to Hosea Stout, in March 1863, he is quoted as saying: The President (Brigham Young) is discussing the propriety of building a Tabernacle this season, a circular ended building, 250 feet long and 150 feet wide: 500,000 feet of lumber will be requisite for its erection; the site proposed is the west gate of the Temple Block, or between that and the Temple (Journal History, March 20, 1863). To think with President Brigham Young was to act, and, during the following month, April 1863, the work of clearing the ground for the foundation of the great building was begun. The stone pillars on which the large arches were to stand, were constructed in 1864. The wooden arches, supporting the roof, were designed and built under the direction of Henry Grow, who had been a bridge builder in Pennsylvania before coming to Utah and who was acquainted with the lattice type of construction. He had many problems to meet in constructing the roof of this famous building, without supports, and with only a small amount of iron. Wooden pegs were TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY used to hold the beams together, and rawhide was tied around them to make them more secure. But at last the great building was ready— sufficiently ready so that the October Conference of the Church, in 1867, could be held within its walls. President Bngham Young was greatly pleased with what had been accomplished. At the opening. Session, on the forenoon of Sunday, October 6th, "the President kindly expressed to the workmen the thanks of all the Apostles and all the brethren and sisters for the steady perseverance and faithfulness that they had manifested in completing, thus far, the building. For one, he said, he had not ceased to pray for them, that no accident might befall anyone, and that we might rejoice together in such a work. He felt to bless them, and to continue to pray for them, and he took the opportunity of expressing that he Courtesy Church Historian's Office 731 would be very much pleased did he witness as resolute a spirit in the Elders of Israel to favor the early completion of the Temple. He thought it proper to say something about the unfinished condition of the organ. Not over one-third of the pipes were up, and till the casing was built, they had thrown around ita loose garment. It was now only about fifteen feet high, and when completed it would be forty fect high. Brother Ridges, and_ those who labored with him, had done the best they could, and notwithstanding their diligence by early day, noon and night, they had been unable to have it properly tuned. It was however, in a condition to accompany the choir, and he was pleased with it" (J. H., October 6, 1867). FTER the opening hymn by the choir, President Young arose again to offer the prayer. Note the seepsepngtee eee Bosom gree, ttle are ees Loans caren ng oncnnm ey THE LARGE TABERNACLE, SHOWING SOME OF THE ARCHES PARTLY COVERED _ Photograph taken about 1866. Note the stone pillars, the bowery type of covering used to protect some of the materials, and the masonry blocks used for placement in the structure. 732 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZ! INE—NOVEMBER 1960 sincerity and deep devotion of this prayer. It was all so characteristic of him; the solemn, reverent, deep feelings of his heart. "He expressed to the Most High, the grateful feelings of the Saints, for the favors which He had multiplied upon them, enabling them to have finished thus far, an edifice in which they could assemble and worship Him, their Creator, in the name of His Son Jesus Christ; imploring the aid for the Holy Spirit to teach them how to pray and what to ask for acceptably in His sight. "He implored the blessings of the Lord upon the congregation assembled, upon the Priesthood, and all in authority in His Church and Kingdom, that they might enjoy the outpouring of the Holy Spirit to qualify them in the discharge of % #6 cae Courtesy Church Historian's Office every duty; that the workmen who had labored upon that house might feel blessed, and feel satisfaction in that labor, and recompense in the love of Christ; that the Apostles might be blessed and qualified to discharge the duties of their Holy Apostleship; that the Bishops might have the ability their arduous labors demand, and be filled with wisdom, kindness, patience and forbearance, and so be fathers to the people; that the High Priests, Seventies, Elders, Priests, 'Teachers and Deacons might all enjoy the blessings of their callings. "He craved the blessings of the Lord upon the children of the Saints; that the power of the Almighty might heal the sick; that the Saints in foreign lands might be the object of His care; that the misTEMPLE SQUARE AS IT APPEARED ABOUT 1879 This panoramic view of Temple Square was taken about 1879, some two years after the death of President Brigham Young. Note in the background at the left, the Assembly Hall, almost finished, the Large Tabernacle, and the Temple, partly finished. The building at the left, enclosed by the white picket fence, is the Council House, the first public building built in Salt Lake City, Utah. TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY Photograph by C. R. Savage Courtesy Church Historian's Office 733 AN EARLY VIEW OF THE INTERIOR OF THE SALT LAKE TABERNACLE This picture, taken about 1900, shows the small organ and the choir seats only partly built up. The organ has been considerably enlarged. Sionaries among them might have the ability to do their duty, be preserved and returned again to the Church in Zion; that the poor Saints might be blessed and prospered, so they may gather with the Saints here, and that the emigrants that have lately arrived may seek to do right, and be blessed and prospered. "He implored the blessings of the Most High upon our families, our wives, our children, and upon our ficlds, our barns, and all we possessed; asked the Lord to inspire the speakers, the hearers, during the conference, so that all might be done according to His Holy Will" (J. H., October 6, 1867). This first conference in the new 'Tabernacle continued for four days, with great enthusiasm. It proved to be the largest conference, from the standpoint of attendance, ever held in the Church up to that time. The seating capacity in the Tabernacle was considerably increased, during the years 1870-71, when the gallery was constructed. A reporter writing in the Deseret News of a meeting held in the Tabernacle on May 1, 1870, had the following to say: "While President Young was addressing the congregation his hearers kept very still, and we are informed by persons who sat on the seats where they were accustomed to sit last summer, that yesterday they heard as they never did before. The gallery had made, judging by their experiences, a great improvement in the acoustic qualities of the building" (Deseret News, May 2, 1870). During the ninety-three years that have passed since the Salt Lake 'Tabernacle was first used, the great building has become known around the world. At the present time the organ and choir and "the spoken word," through the medium of radio, are heard each Sunday by millions of listeners. 734 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 The Assembly Hall The plan for building the Assembly Hall was also projected by the great pioneer leader, President Brigham Young. I find the following in the Journal History of the Church under date of September 12, 1877. "At a priesthood meeting of the Salt Lake Stake, held August 11, 1877, President B. Young proposed to pull down the Old Tabernacle, and build a new one to accomodate about 3,000 people. In obedience to this wish, work was commenced on this date, as reported in the Deseret News." President Young lived only eighteen days after he attended this se. Photograph by C. R. Savage Courtesy Church Historian's Office meeting. He died on August 29, 1877, from the effects of what appears to have been a_ ruptured appendix. The article in the Deseret News referred to above, gives a partial plan for the new building as follows: "The work of tearing down the Old 'Tabernacle, preparatory to erecting a new and more suitable and commodious structure, on or near the same site, commenced this morning. 'The Bishops of the City Wards were each requested to send one man, but only nine of the twenty-one responded, probably because of the unpromising appearance of the weather. It is likely, however, that the whole number will be on THE ASSEMBLY HALL ALMOST COMPLETED Photograph taken about 1881 shows the building almost completed. Note the unfinished roofing appearing white. Unused building blocks and pieces of lumber may be seen in the foreground and around the building. Note the wall of Temple Square and trees in the background. TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY Photograph by C. R. Savage Courtesy Church Historian's Office 735 INTERIOR OF THE ASSEMBLY HALL Note paneling and light fixture on the ceiling, stairway at the right, and the galleries on each side, with the pulpits center front. The ground tomorrow, weather permitting. "Instead of the proposed building extending lengthwise, north and south, it will be east and west. Its length and breadth will be 100 feet by 60 feet, [this was later changed to 120 feet by 68 feet] in the clear, and 31 feet from the floor to the ceiling. It will be surrounded, except at the end, where the stand will be constructed, with a gallery; there will be two rows of windows, one under and one over the gallery. The foundation, which will be of sandstone, will rise two feet above the ground level, and above that the walls will be granite, two feet six inches thick. The. Heating will be done by means of pipes, and it will be lighted with gas. "The committee appointed to manage the construction are Bishop Thomas Taylor, Henry Grow, Edward Brain, William Asper and George Goddard. "Brother Grow will have the general superintendency of the construction, and Brother Brain will have the special supervision of the mason work" (J. H., September 12, 1877). Thus began the work of constructing the beautiful little building known as the Assembly Hall. The building was dedicated by President Joseph F. Smith on January 7, 1882. At that time he said: "May the Spirit of the Holy Gospel dwell in the midst of the people that shall come from Sabbath to Sabbath, and from time to time, to attend the meetings and worship in this house" (J. Hl., January 7, 1882). (To be continued ) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1900 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF Att NATIONS" THANKSGIVING IN NEW ENGLAND BEFORE THE WESTWARD JOURNEY:... Soon all were seated, the mother having arranged them all in order on each side with the eldest married son at the head of the table to carve the steaming roast turkey while she served the vegetables, taking special pains to have the baked beans piping hot from the large brown earthen pan in which they had come from the great brick oven in the kitchen. The mother herself pronounced the blessing and the feasting was graced with the usual New England table talk of bounteous harvests and Thanksgiving events, entertainments, sleigh rides and balls.... Never again did those assembled on that evening all meet together. Out from under that roof tree, where so many happy days had been spent, so many festive occasions celebrated, they went, and no doubt the picture lingered lovingly in their memory long years after. —Aunt Em MARGARET A. CAINE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD VISITS PANGUITCH STAKE: Sister Caine felt pleased with all she had seen in regard to the society here. The Lord had never given a law restraining the Latter-day Saints in gaining knowledge.... The Prophet Joseph Smith studied diligently all the time.... Sister Caine wished to extend the greeting of Aunt Zina and counselors, also Sister Wells, who are just as interested as they can be in all the sisters.... Sister Caine wanted the sisters to understand the purpose of the organization, no other can take the place of this. It was to qualify them for high and holy positions. Mothers can better prepare for family prayers than anyone else, also to instil the principle of tithe-paying upon the children. Retrenchment as taught by President Young did not mean altogether in dress, but in cooking good and wholesome food and less pastry, and in all our home work to find time to improve the mind.... —H. A. Crosby, Sec. SOMETIMES Sometimes we meet in life a noble friend, Who true and faithful proves e'en unto death, Our inmost natures seem in one to blend As roses with the summer zephyr's breath.... —KEllis R. Shipp THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN: The National Council of Women of the United States held its annual... Sessions in Minneapolis, Minnesota, this year... The Minneapolis ladies proved their generous hospitality and welcome, as well as sympathy with the cause of woman's work.... Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney of New York... Is a fine presiding officer, just and courteous to all, with unfailing patience and always punctual and knows how to economize time... As our readers know, we are not given to mentioning costumes... Yet... Mrs. McCune of our own city, might with all due propriety be spoken of, because she wore an elegant Paris gown of black lace.... We met many beautiful women... Of a great variety of faiths and from all points of the compass.... In an assembly of this sort one notices the many highly intellectual faces. A telegram received from Miss Susan Anthony said: "I send greetings to my daughters of the most comprehensive organization of women, and the one in which I have the greatest hope."