[Vol47 | November 1960 | Sequence: 20 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

The editorial for September "Enhancing the Joy of Family Living," by Marianne C. Sharp, is especially fine. If only our young mothers would inculcate its suggestions into the daily life of their homes! A few decades ago, when my children were still in the formative period, I had friends who gave me the same counsel that Sister Sharp expresses in her editorial. I did the best I could to enrich our home atmosphere with a knowledge of great books, art, and music, as well as trying to develop an appreciation of God's great masterpieces in the works of nature around us.

"My 'Third Grandma," by Ilene H. Kingsbury is precious, and "The Rich, Full Years," by Betty Lou Martin is full of encouragement and is enjoyable. The frontispiece poem "Lombardy Poplars," by Dorothy J. Roberts, brings nostalgic memories to one whose childhood was spent in the shadow of Mount Timpanogos.
—Flora S. Whittemore
Soda Springs, Idaho

As a young mother, I wish to express my thanks, among many others, for the splendid Relief Society Magazine. As a young girl, I started reading my mother's Magazine, and ever since the stories and lesson material have enriched my life and also my husband's. When the Magazine comes, he immediately reads it first. We have thoroughly enjoyed reading the moving story of "Orchids in the Snow," serial by Rosa Lee Lloyd. It is wonderful to have such a Magazine in our home.
—Elizabeth Anderton
North Ogden, Utah

I want to tell you how our dear Magazine builds me up. The Lord says his gospel is not to be preached without the spirit accompanying the words, and I always find that the spirit is expressed in the Magazine from the beautiful front cover to the last word contained therein. That is the heart of Relief Society work, loving and giving the spiritual messages the Magazine contains.
—Clara H. Park
Salt Lake City, Utah

Thank you for the wonderful "Handwork for Happiness" section of the August Magazine. May we have more like it in the future! There are probably many others who enjoyed it as much or more. The article concerning the Bee Hive House was also very interesting. The Magazine is so welcome in the missions for the sisters who aren't blessed by seeing the larger Relief Society meetings in the wards. We all enjoy the articles.
—Jane Ramsey
Jacksonville, Alabama

There is so much enthusiasm in my heart for the marvelous Magazine. My dear grandmother has remembered me with a gift subscription each year for my birthday. I especially enjoy the "From Near and Far' department. Rosa Lee Lloyd's serial "Orchids in the Snow" (beginning in May 1960) is a delightful story which I follow with love. The June issue, which shared with us the highlights of Sister McKay's inspiring life, was so heartwarming to read. My greatest appreciation for this valuable Magazine.
—Mrs. Joyce L. Ball
Redondo Beach, California

I think the poem "With Inner Balm" by Alice Morrey Bailey, (the frontispiece for August) is a lovely thing, and so comforting. She truly has the gift of words.
—Sylvia Probst Young
Midvale, Utah

The booklet '"Handwork for Happiness"' (in the August issue) was a pleasant surprise. Also, the July issue. We are looking forward to bringing these ideas to the women.
—Charlotte Heninger
Hawthorne, California

I am renewing my Relief Society Magazine. I don't want to miss a copy of it. It is such a wonderful Magazine. It has such clean, wholesome stories, and it is a joy to read.
—Helen S. Pope
Phoenix, Arizona