[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 190 | The Home | Embroidery Adorns | Her Quilts]
o£ oP e OoM SPT y BE TSS © Embroidery Adorns Her Quilts Mrs. Magdalene Schoenfeld has made more quilts than she can remember. Many of her beautifully stitched quilts have been adorned with embroidery—crossstitch and lazy-daisy—floral and geometric designs. Relief Society organizations in several wards have been proud and grateful to display Mrs. Schoenfeld's artistic work. Now, at ninety-three, she still works on quilts, finishing them and carefully stitching the bindings. She tells the Relief Society sisters that they aren't keeping her busy enough. She has been a member for seventy-three years, and a visiting teacher for fifty-three years. Now a member of Poplar Grove Second Ward in Pioneer Stake (Sait Lake City, Utah), she rejoices in Relief Society and counts her many blessings. She keeps her home ''neat as a pin'' and cooks for her son. Her happy spirit reaches out to friends and neighbors in love and service. 190 -. /N " Sierra Blanca AN 12,004 ft. I AS 7% "a i. On 5a Cloudcroft 4 Y Alamagordo ©) White Sands a /\ National Monument Sacramento ie alt. Approx. His 4200 ft. > a, Lake Loop —SgR Visitor uf M ga A anal ali Lucero 4.{ \ Center oo Cee sania, é ie: my Je Pu? Te fo Las Cruces /\ ig y PRodeo Pasa) The White Sands of New Mexico — cieire noai @ Southern New Mexico's White Sands National Monument is a maze of ever-shifting, ever-whispering dunes. Matthew and I arrived at the Visitor Center in late afternoon. We had driven down from Cloudcroft, high in the Sacramento Mountains, where we had seen brightly clothed skiers cutting glissandi in actual, pine-girt snow. Within an hour's time we lost a thousand feet in altitude but thereby gained a warmth of velvet air in arid drouth. We left roadside flowers nodding April's greeting to enter a fairyland of simulated snow. This texture holds no visible moisture; yet in the marginal dunes a scant vegetation lifts its stems forty feet through burying sands. The roots, lying incredibly deep, anchor the grains of gypsum. A few species survive, such as shrubby pennyroyal, four-wing saltbush, and dark green iodine plant. The low crowns challenge the ceaseless charge borne on the prevailing northeasterly winds. Root, stem, and leaf pedestal the restless particles until they adhere almost as if cemented together. The sands may arrive on a whisper or stampede on a gale; but, because they seldom purl beyond the bastion, the dark-blotched hills wall them in. From these highly patched border-dunes we commenced the Loop Drive, cleared as nature dictates, where, presently, no plant was seen. The white road glistened and reflected the blue of the sky. It curved in and out between winged hills, and, suddenly, I felt an irresistible desire to leave the car—which must not leave the road. I left the car and ran headlong toward the slopes, my spirit light.