GENERAL MEETING 2 p. M. President Clarissa S. Williams graciously welcomed the large audience of Relief Society women, which thronged the Assembly Hall, for the afternoon session of the conference. She reminded the members that the Relief Society has always been the mother auxiliary organization of the Church and the organization whose mission has been a mission of education, relief and service. THE NEW ZEALAND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. Ida A. Taylor, Former President of New Zealand Mission Relief Society I trust that while I report my mission in the far-away South Sea Island that you will learn something of what the sisters in that far-away land are striving to do. Although they are dark-skinned, they are big-hearted, and to know them is to love them. There is a Relief Society grganization in the New Zealand mission, presided over by the wife of the mission president. She has two counselors, who are Maori sisters, and who speak both English and the Maori languages. There is also a secretary and treasurer and a board. While I was in the mission, the board was reorganized, and therefore at the present time the board consists of but five members, in addition to the executive officers. All of the board members are able to speak both Maori and English, and the work is progressing quite rapidly among these people. Relief Societies have been organized in various parts of the mission, so that at the present time there are thirty-three organizations; thirtyone of these are Maori organizations, and two are composed of European women. The white sisters are using the Magazine for their lesson material, but the lessons as outlined in the Magazine are too hard for the Maori women, and therefore they are simplified for them, until they are almost like Primary lessons. This is done by rewriting the lessons in English and translating them into the Maori. These lessons are printed in the Mission magazine, which is in the Maori language, and in this way the lessons reach all the branches of the Relief Society, as every organization subscribes for the local magazine, It may be interesting to you to know how these Moari teachers visit. They feel very keenly the responsibility resting upon visiting teachers. There is one case I wish to tell you about. Two sisters were sent out to visit a mother with some sick children, and the father away. They took this mother and the sick children right into their buggy and into the home of one of the sisters, where they could be administered to and given help. The mother and children were cared for until they were better, when they were taken home again. We have to adjust the Magazine material to our needs and conditions, since we are having winter at the time you are having your summer vacations here. It was suggested to us that some of the Retief Society of ficers were not keeping the Word of Wisdom, so we sent out a questionnaire, two of the questions being, "Do your officers keep the Word of Wisdom? Do your officers pay tithing?' Some of the answers were very amusing. Some of the branches answered that all the officers were not keeping the Word of Wisdom, but that they had been put on probation for three months, after three months the answers were sent in, stating that the sisters had given up smoking now, and that they were trying hard to live according to the Word of Wisdom. CANADIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. Margaret S. Jensen, Former President of Canadian M ission Relief Society It has been several months since I returned from the Canadian mission, but in the meantime, my heart has been with those dear sisters up in that good land, and I deem it. A great privilege to be permitted to report the conditions of that mission. The Relief Society work in Canada is just in its infancy as the Canadian mission is the baby mission of the Church. It had its beginning in the year 1919, and when we went there we found but two conferences in Canada, one at Toronto and the other at Winnepeg, and in these conferences we had three organized Relief Societies, which had been organized under the Eastern States mission and the Northern States mission, During the first year, through the help of the missionaries, we were able to organize three more Societies, and the last year we were privileged to organize one in Ottawa, the capital of the Dominion of Canada. For some time the missionaries had been carrying on the work of the Relief Society in Ottawa, but there was no organization and when an organization was effected, a very timid, retiring woman was made president of the branch, but before long she developed into an efficient worker and a splendid officer. This shows that when we put our hearts and minds into a cause, that the Lord will help us and we will grow with it. [I still remember the first officers' meeting of which I had charge after I was called to act as president of the Relief Society, and. I always think of the inspiration I received from a picture of President Williams, which was in the Magazine.. As I arose to take charge of the meeting, I glanced at that picture and received strength to conduct the meeting. This 
 is a testimony to me that those who are over us are called by divine inspiration, and that they are our true leaders. There are many difficulties to meet in the mission field that we do not have in the organized stakes of Zion, but we found, much to our joy, that if we followed the outlines given to us in the Relief Society Magazine, we were more successful than if we tried to carry on the work in some other way. Much has been said about the accomplishments of the Relief Society, and although we filled a very small place in the organization in Canada, there were many faith-promoting instances which occurred during our missionary experiences there which showed that the Relief Society is doing a good work in the Church. One instance I shall relate is of a father who died leaving' six children. A neighbor happened to be a member of the Relies Society. Her attention was drawn to the destitute condition of this family, and she called the officers of the Relief Society, swho went to their rescue, and rendered all the necessary assistance to this family, and in due time, the missionaries were permitted to enter the home. It was not long before the children were enrolled in our Sunday School, and when we left that mission, the eldest daughter had been baptized into the Church. I remember another instance where a mother lost her baby, and they called the Relief Society in. When the undertaker came and told them what the burial expenses would be, it was found that the woman had not the means to bury the child, and the mother feared that the child would be buried in the potter's field. We assured her that the Relief Society would pay for the plat of ground for the burial, and I shall never forget the gratitude of that grief-stricken mother. I wish to bear testimony to you of the splendid help of our lady missionaries in the Relief Societies in the missions. They take charge of their work in a most efficient manner, and any mother who has a daughter in the mission field may well be proud that she has a daughter worthy to go; and if anyone has qualms about lady missionaries, I wish to tell them that they do a great amount of good and reach many people that our elders are not able to come in contact with. Missionary work is wonderful and blessed, and it should be the ideal of every mother and father to teach their boys and girls that their life's work and education is not complete without a mission. I am thankful to my heavenly Father for the privilege I have of laboring in the Relief Society. I know that the Spirit of the Lord is in this work, and that it was indeed inspired by God himself. Counselor Louise Y. Robison, of General Presidency There is a great strength which comes to us when we mingle with those of strong faith, because faith is a strong dynamic power, and its influence is felt by those who come in contact with those who possess it. On the other hand, evil things and evil thoughts have an influence on us also, and they stay close to us to worry and annoy us. Now, the Latter-day Saint women have always been of strong faith. They have had mighty faith in leaying their homes in foreign lands to come to Zion, and it has always been, since the organization of the Church, the moving power in the Church. Had it not been for this, the great things which have been accomplished in a hundred years could not have been. Had the Prophet Joseph Smith shirked his duty and failed, these great things could not have been accomplished and we would not now be the power that we are. This fine faith and valor was possessed by the Prophet Joseph Smith and the apostles and their wives, and by all the Saints, from the very beginning. When the men had faith enough to leave their wives and little children'to go abroad on missions; and when the equally courageous wives could go to the door, even when ill, to wave good-bye to their husbands; when the weary pioneers could sing praises to our Father in heaven, and when, in destitution and poverty of the people, Brigham Young could begin this magnificent temple, certainly the women of the Relief Society have a marvelous example to follow. Some of us have felt handicapped by sickness and poverty, but if we will look back at the history of our Church, we will find that out of some of the most depressing conditions have come great accomplishments. In every undertaking, people must have the spirit of the undertaking. In order to accomplish the thing in view. One must have the spirit of Raphael to paint as a Raphael, the spirit of a Joan of Arc to lead armies as she did, and above all, the Spirit of God to do his work. There is not a time in our lives that we cannot meet the experiences which come to us, by faith and prayer. Everywhere, we find people to do the possible things; things that can be done, can be met by peopte of skill or experience. It is only people of faith who can do the things that it is said cannot be done. I have been reading recently the history of Dwight L. Moody, the evangelist. He had the love of humanity and he felt he was in the service of our Father. He accomplished great things in the United States, and then when he was about to go to England, he was told that'the people there were not interested in anything religious. After he had been there a week, he had crowded houses every night, and at the noon hour he would have an audience of 1500 turn out at the prayer meeting. Mr. Moody had no power only his desire to do good, but every woman of our organization, who has been given something to do, is called by men of the Priesthood. Our organization was first made and blessed by a prophet of God, and prophets and men ho! Ding the Priesthood ever since that time have blessed it. After all, is there any place we cannot fill, if we have the power and the faith to try? 
 May we pray for the faith that gives us high ideals and strength to live up to them, the strength that sustains us in depression and discouragement, and above all, may we have faith to do that which is the best for our organization. Counselor Jenme B. Knight, of General Presidency Away back one hundred years ago, a great event happened. The Angel Moroni appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that marked the beginning of a great epoch in the history of mankind. One hundred years from that time, we, as a people, have been privileged to dedicate to our heavenly Father one of the most artistic buildings that has ever been erected in the Church—the temple which has been dedicated in western Canada. This temple, which is one of the greatest achievements of this people in art, has been built from the tithes and the offerings of the people, who believe in the vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and who have worked to fulfil the destiny that it was intended they should fulfil. It. Is related that President Brigham Young, when asked concerning the structure of the temple on this block, said, "It wiil have six towers." The temples that had been built before had but one. He said that the time would come when temples would be erected with gardens and fish ponds on the roof, and in the completion of the Alberta temple, at Cardston, his prophecy has been fulfilled, at least, partially. I had the privilege this summer of going to the dedication, and as we traveled from the Glacier Park by auto to the temple, it was a most inspiring sight to see that granite edifice in the distance, surrounded by fields of waving grain, and near its foundation, the homes of the Latter-day Saints. It seemed to speak of a great thing well done. And I thank my heavenly Father that in another country, presided over by another flag than that of the United States, a temple has been erected. You may read of this beautiful edifice in the magazine articles that have been published. It was built of granite that was hauled four hundred miles from Nelson in British Columbia. This temple is ina way a monument to the people of the Book of Mormon. I had the pleasure some years ago of visiting in the South and seeing the ruins of the buildings of the people of Nephi, eight hundred miles south of the City of Mexico, and when I saw one great stone over the door, just back of the outer court, my mind immediately went back to a great stone that stood over the entrance of one of the ruins of the Nephites, and I could but think that this was a monument to the Nephites. In the assembly room there are life-sized pictures that describe much of the history of the Nephite people. On the front. Wall, as you enter, there is a picture of the Savior administering the sacrament to the N ephites, and underneath the picture, an inscription from the Book of Mormon One of the guides told us that he had borne his testimony to over twenty-seven thousand travelers who had seen the picture and asked where the inscription underneath was taken from, The temple is perfect in all of its appointments. It is as impossible to describe its beauty as it is to describe the fragrance of a rose. President Ivins made this fact known to us that I would like to leave with you today, because it has been a strength to me. He said that there are more for us than against us, because the Lord is always on our side.; May you have many times of rejoicing and may you have the privilege of working in the temples that surround your homes, President Clarissa S. Williams I presume that you have all been greatly impressed during the last six months with the great spirit of destruction and death which has been abroad in the world. You are a'l familiar with the terrible earthquake in Japan, which is one of the greatest disasters that has ever happened. You know that you cannot pick up a newspaper that you do not read of death and floods and carnage and pillage, and it seems that the Lord is working with his people, endeavoring in his way to bring them to a knowledge of the Lord and his workings. In our own Church there have been some things happen that have been heart-rending while other things have yielded the greatest satisfaction. We rejoice that another temple has been added to our chain of temples, and one that is of marvelous beauty. The spirit that pervaded that land when the temple was dedicated was one of peace and joy, and the instructions which were given by the President of the Church and the brethren who accompanied him, were of great comfort and consolation to all in attendance. I rejoice that I had the privilege of visiting Canada and of going through the temple two years ago. It was not entirely completed, but yet it was completed sufficiently for me to know what a wonderful work of art it ls, and that it is a fit place for the Spirit of the Lord. A great event has happened in the Church, and that is the hundredth anniversary of the coming forth of the angel Moroni. I know that you have all been interested in the pilgrimage which was made by the young missionaries, and many of the Saints, to Palmyra. You have read how they took their packs on their backs and walked to Palmyra, from their different fields of labor. I think we can hardly conceive of anything of the kind today when transportation is so easy, and we can but give tribute to the minds who conceived that pilgrimage, and to the faithful devotion of those who carried it out. I know you have been interested in reading of the services which were conducted on the Hill Cumorah, and in the Sacred Grove, and of the efforts that were made 
 by the people in the surrounding country to make comfortable those who were visiting there. Instances of this sort make us feel nearer to our heavenly Father. I had planned to speak at length on health subjects, but I know that the time is far spent, consequently I shall-present only a few of the items I have in mind. These items are of vital importance to the Relief Society organization. If we are not well we are not able to enjoy life, neither can we be factors in community building. While the Relief Society from the time of its organization, in 1842, has been interested in all phases of community welfare work, it has been especially interested in health and nursing problems. In Winter Quarters, in 1846, Brigham Young said, "I intend to propose to the Council of this Church to have some way devised to instruct this people concerning the organization of the human system, and how to care for it." Soon after the arrival of the pioneers in the Salt Lake Valley, a council of health was established, with Dr. Willard Richards in charge, assisted by his wife, Susannah Liptroth, who had been an English nurse. Dr. And Mrs. Richards gave lectures to the women of the Church on obstetrics, nursing, and child care. In 1872, a physiological class was organized by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, and the next year President Young issued a request to the presidents of the Relief Societies throughout the Church, to appoint three women from each ward to study hygiene and nursing. He also proposed to the bishops of each ward to see to it that these students were supported by the ward during the term of study. Soon after this, Dr. Mary Barker, an eastern graduate physician, opened a class for obstetrics and many of the leading women of the Church attended her classes. In 1877, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, a graduate physician, opened a school of obstetrics, and for 28 years she taught two classes a year. She was also the means of establishing a woman's hospital in Utah, the Deseret Hospital, which was the forerunner of the L. D. S. Hospital. In 1898, the Retief Society nurse school was established, with Dr. Margaret C. Roberts as the organizer. The class was first conducted under the auspices of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, and later, in 1904, became a part of the work of the General Board of the Relief Society. Many hundreds of women have graduated from this Relief Society course, and have been a blessing to their communities. It is very gratifying that since 1920 the General Board has co-operated with the L.D.S. Hospital in carrying forward this course for practical nurses, and that since that time, the Relief Society students have had the opportunity of having real training for one year in the L.D.S. Hospital. With such a background, it is no wonder that the women of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES — 623 the Relief Society are quick to appreciate the importance of the Sheppard-Towner act, whereby the State of Utah, by matching government appropriations, has been able to institute a definite program of work in the interest of maternity and infant welfare. While Relief Society women are interested in every phase of health work, they feel at the present time that great good could be accomplished by centering their chief interest in maternity and infant health work. Reports that are coming to the office from the various stakes in Utah, as well as from Idaho and Arizona, where the work is also established, are very gratifying, and point to constructive maternity work for the future. Anticipating the Sheppard-Towner work, the General Board recommended several years ago that the interest on the wheat fund money be used to further maternity work throughout the Church. The General Authorities were favorable to this recommendation, and plans are being made in many stakes to conserve the wheat interest for maternity health work. And while it has been decided that the wheat interest may be used according to the wishes of the ward Relief Society, still it is the advice and counsel and the desire of the General Board that this money be reserved for maternity and health work. While Church statistics show that our maternity and infant mortality is low, compared with such statistics generally, still I feel that the death rate is altogether too high, and that definite steps should be taken by Relief Society women everywhere to re; duce maternity and infant mortality. Our statistics for 1922, which were compiled in the Presiding Bishop's Office, show: Deaths—Maternity: Accidents of Pregnancy, 8; Puerperal Hemorrhage, 13; Accidents of Labor, 8; Puerperal Septicemia, 18; Peurperal Albuminuria and convulsions, 11; total 58. Deaths— Infants and Children: under one month, 426; from 1 month to 1 year, 325; which makes a total of 751 babies who died last year, under one year of age; from 1 to 2 years, 163; from 2 to 3 years, 84; from 3 to 4 years, 44; from 4 to 5 years, 32; from 5 to 10 years, 123; from 10 to 15 years, 150; total 596 childven who died during 1922, between the ages of 1 and 15 years. This added to the number of babies under one year who died during 1922, 751, makes a total 1,347 chlidren up to 15 years of age, who died during 1922. There were 13,000 births in the Church, and therefore, the percentage of deaths is very small, still we are surprised to find that the death rate is as high as it is. While, as I said before, this death rate is very low compared with the death rate generally, still it is much too high. The aim and object of the Sheppard-Towner provision is: (1) To promote the establishment of health centers for the instruction of expectant mothers, and care and feeding of children; 
 (2) To promote the services of public health nurses in connection with these health centers: (3) To prepare and distribute literature and otherwise promote educational campaigns in behalf of the health of mothers and children; > (4) To improve the standards and methods of instruction of midwives and strict enforcement of the law relating to their licensing and practice. There is no provision in the Utah law that this money should be used for relief purposes, but rather for education and demonstration work, With an educational and public health nursing service, the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has reduced perceptibly the maternity and infant mortality rate among its policy holders, and this demonstration shows what can be done with education and proper supervision, It is my hope that in the near future, health departmaata will be established in every county, and that through co-operation between the state and county health departments, the child hygiene bureau of the state board of health where the Sheppard-Towner work is being carried on, and the volunteer health agencies, an ideal health program will be established and carried out, which will reduce to a minimum maternity and infant mortality in this state. In one of the counties of Idaho, two of the stakes have united with the county and the Red Cross in raising funds for the purpose of placing a public health nurse in this county. This is very commendable. In these days when the employment of a private nurse is beyond the reach of so many people, we will probably have to resort to the visiting nurse system, which is in vogue in many of our large cities and by which service families are able to have daily calls from the visiting nurse at a very reasonable cost. The practical nurse is also filling a great need, and we urge Relief Society women to seé to it that our class of Nurse Aids at the L. D. S. Hospital is well patronized. In closing, I ask you women of the Relief Society to concentrate on health and maternity work and let us see with our combined effort if we cannot materialJy reduce the death rate in the Church during the next few years. Note: An address, "Companionship Between Parents and Children," delivered at the Conference by Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, of the General Board, will appear in the January magazine; also, the address on Contagious and Infectious Diseases and Quarantine Regulations by Dr. Jane W. Skolfield.. Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in Fedruary) - SPIRITUAL SERVICE (Continued ) 1. Choice of Spiritual Service. "Choose you this day whom ye will serve," Joshua 24:15. This quotation may well be repeated at the dawn of every day by every one of accountable age. There is need of a Joshua within to start us on our way, as there is need for a power without to keep us at our best. 2. God's Commandments are Eternal and Spiritual. "Wherefor I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man nor the children of men; neither Adam your father whom I created." (Doctrine and Covenants 29:34.) Commandments from God are revelations of truth with an injunction of application of the truth. All truth is eternal, God's commands are therefore everlasting in their nature. Their application may be changed from place to place and from time to time, but the laws change not. The fulfiling of a law consists in completing its application, as was the case with the fulfilment of the "Law of Moses," by Christ. Under the same conditions that were in force, when the law was given, the law of carnal commandments will be ever in force. Change of conditions inevitably brings change in the operations of commandments or revealed law. (D. & C 19:4-13.) The commandments of God are all spiritual because they came from a spiritual source and they all have spiritual effects. A single spiritual service act causes the heavens to rejoice in that it is a response to the inspiration of the Almighty or to his expressed will. Spiritual service is like the broadcasting of a radio message causing vibrations of joy in every direction. The broadcasting also produces return vibrations of joy that expand and refine the actor. For one to awaken in the morning and say, "This day I will serve the Lord," is equal to saying, "This day I will cause waves of happiness to ripple on the ocean of the universe." Spiritual service is double in its effect in that it adds to the joy of its affinity, the Spirit of the Lord, and increases the strength of the one who renders the service. "If ye love me, keep my commandments," carries with it all that could be expressed by saying, "Tf ye love me ye will make me happy by keeping my commandments." That which can be grieved can be made happy and we 
 learn from scripture that Jesus wept (John 11:35) and that the Losd wept at the prospects of human suffering resulting from failure in spiritual service. (See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 8:28-130.). 3. Fervor and Fact Essential to Spiritual Service. "God is a spirit; and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth." (John 4:24.) In this passage we. Have evidence of the personality of God. The letter "a" and the word "him" precludes the possibility of thinking of God as other than an, individual. Had the Savior said that God is spirit; and they who worship "it" must worship "it" in spirit and in truth, there would be some justification for the doctrine of God being nothing more than a diffused spiritual force or influence. The passage also makes plain that the worship of God must be more than half-hearted, it must be full of fervor and valiancy. The trail followed by the unvaliant ends at best in the terrestrial kingdom. "These are they who are not valiant," (Doc. & Cov. 76:79.) But fervor or valiancy is insufficient in a spiritual service that saves and exalts. Truth is indispensable. The worship of idolaters is full of fervor or spirit and their service is full of sacrifice, but truth is not there and without the truth we cannot be free. Phantom pursuit ends in disappointment. But as fervor cannot make progress alone in spiritual service so truth without earnest application stands waiting. The compensation for spirit- — ual service will depend on the amount of fervor put into that service and the closeness to which that fervor keeps to fact. _ 4, Work for God and Treatment of Men Basis of Reward for Spiritual Service. "The Lord shall come to recompense to every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man." (Doc. & Cov. 1:10.) This modern scripture reveals the inseparableness of the two great laws given by the Savior (Mark 12:31). It makes plain that neither of the laws can be acceptably complied with in service withgut obedience to the other. If one would know his fate at the judgment seat of the Almighty, let that one consult the habit-book of life on two points: What are my habits of work for the Lord, and what are my habits of treatment of my fellowmen? 5. Prayer and Sacrifice in Spiritual Service: The first free agency spiritual act of mortals was the utterance of a prayer. Spiritual service began with a sacrifice. We do not know how long each of our first parents had a soul-desire to come under the care of the Lord; we cannot tell how often each felt like uttering that song-prayer: "O my Father, thou that dwellest, in that high and glorious place! When shall I regain thy presence, and again behold thy face?" With a yearning they waited and waited in the midst of uncertainty, destruction, and death. Then came a voice, the voice of him from whom they had been banished by the estrangement of disobedience and the fiat of expulsion from Eden. They prayed. The prayer was an act, not of service; it was an application for service. It was not a petition for some particular convenient employment; it was the plea that had in it unmistakable willingness to let the Lord name the service. Whatever the words of that application were, they were weighted with sincerity, as were the words of Saul—''Lord, what wouldst thou have me do?" The answer to their application for-spiritual service was begun with sacrifice and thus was put in operation the truth that sacrifice is a prerequisite for spiritual service, and for one to expect to qualify for acceptable service without a willingness to sacrifice is to expect a suspension of the decree of the Almighty, and a reversal of the order of heaven. Doing the convenient only, whether it be attending to prayers, helping the poor, defending leaders, creates no condition of the self that will justify the expectation of high position. We shall all find written over the archway of the door of the temple of eternal justice, "Special privilege for special service." Every day of individual life is like a day in the life of the race. Prayer makes the way for proper entrance into service, and sacrifice begins the service for God and fellowmen. What is true of individual service is true of national spiritual service. National prayer and national sacrifice will bring peace; the spiritual service will work the miracle of universal peace. Questions and Problems 1. Wherein does John (4:24) prove that spiritual service must be based upon belief in a personal God? 2. Show that religious fervor, sincerity, or spirit in spiritual service, is not sufficient for acceptable spiritual service. 3. Prove that half-hearted spiritual service, in truth or in the worship of the true God, cannot reach beyond the terrestrial kingdom. 4. Prove from the Doctrine and Covenants that all of the commandments of the Lord are spiritual. 9. Show that our spiritual service affects both the Spirit of the Lord and our own spirits. 6. Wherein is keeping the Word of Wisdom spiritual service? 7. Show the spiritual service side of paying of tithing. 8. In what respect is marrying in the temple a high kind of spiritual service? 9. Discuss the proposition: Sacrifice is one of the essentials of an exalting spiritual sérvice.: 
 10. Discuss prayer (a) as a means of getting into spiritual service; (b) as an aid in the rendering of spiritual service. 11. Discuss the spiritual-service value of the words of the first judge in Israel, quoted in this lesson. 12. Where is the scriptural proof that we shall be rewarded according to our work for the Lord, and the treament of our fellowmen? Work and Business (Second Week in February) Literature Third Week in February SNOWBOUND Mr. W. S. Kennedy writes of Whittier and his home life: "He was born and passed his boyhood youth in a green, sunken pocket of the inland hills, and he became the poet of the heart and the home. He lived the simple, quiet life of a farmer, loving his mother, his sister, his Quaker sect, freedom, and his own hearth. Between the front door of the old homestead and the road rises a grassy, wooded bank, at. The foot of which flows a little ambercolored brook. The brook is mentioned in Snowbound: " "We minded that the sharpest ear The buried brooklet could not hear, The music of whose liquid lip Had been to us companionship, And, in our lonely life, had grown To have an almost human tone." "The house where Whittier was born and where he lived," says one of his biographers, "is very plain and not very large. Entering the front door, you are in a small entry with a steep, quaint little staircase. On the right is the parlor where Whittier wrote. In the tiny, low-studded room on the left, he was born, and in the same room his father and Uncle Moses died. The room is about fourteen by fourteen feet, is partly wainscoted, has a fireplace and three windows. All the windows in the house have small panes, nine in the upper, and six in the lower, sash. The home is supposed to be over two hundred years old. The kitchen, oldfashioned as it is, of course, attracts a good deal of attention." Snowbound gives us a picture of home life in and about this cottage, in the winter time. The old kitchen, is a cozy old room with its fire-place and huge breadth of chimney with inset cupboards and oven and mantlepiece. Above the mantle hung the old bull's-eye watch. On one side of the kitchen is the cupboard where the pewter plates were placed and in another part is the brass warming pan, polished to such brightness that it attracted attention from any part of the room. No description that can be given by any prose writer, we take it, can equal Whittier's own description. He says of this home: "Shut in from all the world without, We sat the clean-winged hearth about, Content to let the north-wind roar In baffled rage at pane and door, White the red logs before us beat The frost-line back with tropic heat; And ever, when a louder blast Shook beam and rafter as it passed, The merrier up its roaring draught The great throat of the chimney laughed, The house dog on his paws outstretched, Laid to the fire his drowsy head, The cat's dark silhoue'te on the wall A couchant tiger's seemed to fall; And, for the winter fireside meet, Between the andirons' straddling feet, The mug of cider simmered slow, The apples sputtered in a row, And, close at hand,'the basket stood With nu's from brown October's wood." Within this home dwel'ed the father and mother, who were the inspiration of the jife there. In Snowbound we learn how the father ate moose and samp in trapper's hut and Indian camp on Memphremagog's wooded side, and danced beneath St. Francois' hemlock trees, and a'e chowder and hake-broil at the Isle of Shoals. There was no Friends church in Haverhill, but the poet's Father could be seen each Sunday wending his way to the old brown meetinghouse in Amesbury, a distance of six miles. Mrs. Whittier, the poet's mother, had a very deeply religious nature. She was pure, sweet, lovable, and kind-hearted to a fault. In Snowbound her son tells us something of her girlhood in Somersworth on Piscataqua. In another of his books called The Yankee Gypsie, he tells this story of his mother, which is a tribute to her kind-heartedness: "On one occasion," says th poet, "a few years ago, on my return from the fields at evening, I was told that a foreigner had asked for lodgings during the night but that, influenced by his dark, repulsive appesrance, my mother had very reluctantly refused his request. I found her by no means satisfied with her 
 decision. What if a son of mine were in a strange land?' she inquired self-reproachfully. Greatly to her relief I volunteered to. Go in pursuit of the wanderer, and taking a cross path over the fields, soon overtook him. He had just been rejected at the house of our nearest neighbor, and was standing in a state of dubious perplexity in the street. His looks quite justified my mothers' superstitions. He was an olive-complexioned, blackbearded Italian, with an eye like a live coal, such a face as perchance looks out on the traveler in the passes of the Abruzzi—one of those bandit visages which Salvator has painted. With some difficulty I gave him to understand my errand, when he overwhelmed me with thanks and joyfully followed me back. He took his seat with us at the supper table and when we were all gathered around the hearth, that cold autumnal evening, he told us, partly by words and partly by gestures, the story of his life and misfortunes, amused us by descriptions of the great gatherings and festivals of his sunny clime, edified my mother with a recipe for making bread with chestnuts; and, in the morning when, after breakfast, his dark, sullen face lighted up, and his fierce eye moistened with grateful emotion, as in his own silvery Tuscan accent he poured out his thanks, we marvelled at the fears which had so nearly closed our doors against him; and as he departed we all felt that he had left with us the blessing of the poor. "It was not often that, as in the above instance, my mother's prudence got the better of her charity. The regular old stragglers regarded her an unfailing friend; and the sight of her plain cap was to them an assurance of forthcoming creature comforts." Other members of the Whittier household in the poet's boyhood were his elder sister Mary, who died in 1861; Uncle Moses Whittier, who in 1824 received fatal injuries from the falling of a tree which he was cutting down; the poet's younger brother, Matthew, who was born in 1812 and was a contributor to the newspapers of humorous dialect articles, signed "Ethan Spike, from Hornby;" and finally the aunt, Mercy E. Hussey; the younger sister Elizabeth, and occasionally the half-welcome eccentric guest, Harriet Livermore. Of Whittier's Uncle Moses, he writes: Our uncle, innocent of books, Was rich in lore of fields and brooks, The ancient teachers never dumb Of Nature's unhoused lyceum, In moons and tides and weather wise, He reads the clouds as prophecies, And foul or fair could well divine, By many an occult hint and sign, Holding the cunning warded keys To all the woodcraift mysteries; Himself to Nature's heart so near That all her voices in his ear Of beast or bird had meanings clear. Of his eldest sister Mary, who died in 1861, he says: There, too, our elder sister plied Her evening task the stand beside; A full, rich nature, free to trust, Truthful and almost sternly just, Impulsive, earnest, prompt to act, And make her generous thought a fact, Keeping with many a disguise The secret of self-sacrifice. Centering his thought and feelings on his younger sister, Elizabeth who, like himself, was a poet, he wrote: As one who held herself a part Of all she saw, and letsher heart Against the household bosom lean, Upon the motley-braided mat Our youngest and our dearest sat, Lifting her large, sweet, asking eyes, Now bathed within the fadeless green And holy peace of Paradise." Snowbound was first published in 1860, and was written, Mr. Whittier has said, "to beguile the weariness of a sick-chamber." Of descriptions of the class that appear in this poem, Mr. Pancoast writes: "To describe such scenes both truthfully and poetically requires power of no mean order and to this power Whittier added sympathy with the lives of those who toil." And. Mr. Bronson says: Snowbound, that unique idyl of New England country life in winter, is, on the whole, Whittier's greatest and most characteristic poem. Nearly all his previous life had been an unconscious preparation for it, and his ancestors had a hand in it before he was born. It could have been written only, by one bred on a New England farm." Whittier was of fine New England stock; inheriting her legacy of moral, intellectual and spiritual wealth. These qualities he breathed into the lines of Snowbound. No one has reflected New England atmosphere more perfectly than he. As a literary expression of New England rural life, Snowbound is not excelled by anything that has been written; it is very justly styled one of the few American classics. 
 Questions 1. Read the lines from Snowbound describing the aunt, to the class. 2. If you think Snowbound is a description of rural life in general, as well as rural life in New England, tell why. 3. Why are literary critics justified in speaking of Whittier as a democratic poet? The word democratic is used in the broad sense.
4. Find as many lines as you can in Snowbound that indicate that Whittier believed in the life after death.
Social Service
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in February) THE STANDARD OF LIVING
The social worker, in an effort to understand the forces that act on the individual in the processes of development and adjustment, very soon becomes aware of the great economic differences which exist in society today. The child, born in the slums of a city, where the struggle for mere food and shelter is a daily actual fact, has an entirely different set of experiences from the child whose parents can provide not only the needs, but the luxuries of life. The student of sociology must recognize that there is a great difference in economic standards, and must understand that these standards determine, to a certain extent, the kind of influence that the home, the church, the school and the community will exert on the individual. An insight into economic standards is therefore essential to an understanding of man's development and his struggle for satisfactory adjustment.
The term "standard of living" could be more easily understood if a standard could be stated in dollars and cents. It is impossible, however, to say that a family of a certain number should be able to provide certain things on a certain income. A standard cannot be stated in terms of income because a stated income cannot secure the same things for every family. A family's needs differ at different times, depending on the age of its members, the degree of health enjoyed, the ability of the mother to manage a home, the demand of certain types of employment in the matter