FROM FAR AWAY.
	For the benefit of my Utah friends who I
know will be gratified to hear from me I will
briefly write of my present location, which is
situated about 230 miles south of my home
at Parowan Utah, over one hundred miles from
the nearest stage coach or telegraph office,and
so far from all civilization that sometimes I
feel that I must be a Robinson Crusoe or very
similarly situated. Overton is a village of
seven families located upon the Muddy river
their homes are very rude and small the roofs
being made of a coarse grass or rush sur-
mounted with a generous coating of dried
mud, ‘tis a very recent convenience to be able
to procure a lumber floor and those having
two rooms have this luxury in one room only.
Provisions such as yon can purchase cheap


are an exorbitant price and the poorest quality
of flour black and peculiar tasting $5. per
100 lbs and the little variety you can get
to go with it in proportion; as yet no fruit
grows here,though ‘tis pronounced an excellent
climate for many kinds. Irish potatoes do not
do well as they decay at an early stage. As
one drives up to Overton the place presents
rather a pretty view after riding so long
through rocks and sand, without passing
through a settlement, the first sign of one be-
ing near a habitable portion of the earth is a
grove of cotton wood trees though they rather
lost their beauty for me when I was informed
each settler was compelled to plant a certain
portion of his land with them, or do without
fuel of any kind; they are topped once in two
years; every thing grows so rapidly: at the
end of that time a new supply of fire wood
may be gotten,I presume the shade they afford
is very grateful in the summer, though I
would think other varieties might be introduced
thereby breaking the monotony of the scene
if nothing more. The weather is very warm
during the day and the flies right now are
worse than I ever saw them at any time in
Utah, at night just as soon as the sun has
gone to rest there is a damp chilliness exists
that is difficult to describe making one ap-
preciate a good fire; this with the alkali on
the water I believe is a great cause of the
people suffering so much from chills and fever.
	The people generally own considerable land
and entertain great hopes of realizing rich re-
turns from their produce etc. when the rail-
road comes through, at that time if I am still
here I shall expect to get butter for something
less than forty cents per. lb. and dried peaches
I trust will be cheaper than twenty cents a
lb. and come from California or Utah, it is
hard to tell which of us will get our desires
granted one thing I am assured of this hard
working community will earn all they may
get at any time.
	Wages for manual labor are very low for
the Indians here like the Chinese in some
other parts work for so little, they are em-
ployed in preference to the white men, an
Indian will work well ten hours for fifty cents
they are quite an intelligent looking tribe
their women are rather good looking, proud
and tasty about their dress, and show great
affection for their offspring. It is not an un-
frequent occurence to see the halfgrown ones
dancing homeward with their arms entwined
lovingly around each other like our good
natured romping school girls.
	I have not seen an “EXPONENT" since my
arriveal here there are no subscribers here and
having to depend on the pony express ‘tis
very doubtful when our mail will reach us.
There are no Mutuals, Primaries or Relief
Society Associations here I'm informed there
are meetings occassionally on the Sabbath, no
social gatherings of any kind as there is not a
musical instrument in the place. I am con-
confident should I ever be privileged to return
to the many dear associations I have left, that
they will be more highly appreciated than
ever. One thing the air we breathe here is
free and has never yet been tainted with the
terms employed by the courts in enforcing the
Edmunds law. Our rest refreshing and never
disturbed with that tiresome sickening sound,
"Unlawful cohabitation." I have conversed
freely with a number of the opposite sex and
not charged with that dreadful crime, so my
fond friends “there is no great loss without
some small gain." Adieu for this time.
	E. A. CRANR WATSON
Overten, Nevada Dec. 8,1890.


