				SALT LAKE CITY.

	An honest man as ever drew life's breath—
		A noble, steadfast, unassuming soul—
	Has won the victory o'er pain and death.
		And reached triumphantly the final goal.

	'Tis good to meet amid the human throng
		A man or woman, guileless, brave and true;
	A champion for the right, a for to wrong—
		Fearless of conflict, if impelled thereto.

	The sacred principles of truth and right
		Govern'd our friend, and gladdened him withal;
	And thus his heart was full of peace and light.
		When dangers hovered o'er him like a pall.

	I see him yet, enduring direst woe,
		Wasted by hunger, chilled by piercing blasts,
	Cheering his comrades,all his soul aglow,
	With faith and courage, hopeful to the last.

	No trifle 'tis to pour the soothing balm
		Of resignation into hungry men;
	To rouse poor mortals from the fatal calm,
		Born of despair, is no small task, I ken.

	Frail, famished women, famished children too,
		Met the “grim monster" even face to face;
	Yet, God be praised who sent us friends so true,
		And snatched us, verily, from Death’s embrace.

	How swiftly flows the tide of memory back,
		Like friends they seemed who shared those dreadful
			days;
	Justice forbids such worthy souls should lack
		A poet's tribute, or the meed of praise.

	Brave Brother Atwood, sweetly may you rest;
		Bards should have sung your praises long ago;


Too poor this tribute, yet it is the best
		A grateful friend and comrade can bestow.
							EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 20th, 1890.
	*The writer well remembers Brother Atwood's kindness
to his fellow sufferers in one of the belated handcar
companies who nearly succumbed to hunger and cold in
the terrible season of 1856. Many died, and all would
surely have perished amid the mountain snows had not
the Lord inspired President Brigham Young to send a
timely rescue.
								E. H. W.


[Column 1]
		AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
				OF
		ELIZABETH B. PRATT.
	As soon as the font for baptism was ready I
officiated for my sister as she had requested.
The year Joseph and Hyrum were taken to
jail was the most trying tsmes the Saints ever
expərienced. They had to endure sickness,
poverty and a stream of persection, the
Prophet and brethren in authority had to
hide up from mob violence. On the 27th of
June 1844 the Prophet and Hyrum his brother
were murdered in Carthage Jail. Those who
took him as prisoner pledged their word and
honor that he would be safe from violence.
When word came to Nauvoo of their cruel
deaths it was a day of mourning, weeping, and
and sorrow among all the Saints, for they
loved the man of God who had laid down his
life for the Gospel's sake even the atmosphere
and trees seemed to mourn the fate of the
murdered dead. I saw them when they were
in their coffins and they were just as I saw
them in a dream before I knew they were
dead. This prepared me for the shock as I
could not have believed it, as the Lord had
preserved his life so many times. In 1845 the
Temple was sufficiently built to administer in
the ordinances, many thousands received their
endowments, I was among the happy number.
	The quorum of the Twelve aud others ad
ministered in the Temple night and day until
early in the spring February 14th 1846 we
left our homes in Nauvoo and crossed the
Mississippi river and camped on Sugar Creek.
The first night we camped here we had a
snow storm, I took down with the ague and
chills till I thought I shook the ground, Mr.
Pratt administered to me and I had them no
more. We commenced to travel after the
companies were organized and continued to,
through rain and mud. In crossing the
Mississippi bottoms, when one wagon got
through the cattle were unhitched and hitched
on to the next one, the road became so muddy
that it was up to the hubs and had to take
the strength of several yoke of cattle as they
were weak, and only had the boughs of trees
to subsist upon. We often had our bedding
and clothing wet through. After traveling
one hundred and fifty miles, we camped on
Grand river, here the brethren planted a farm
to supply those who came after and named it
Garden Grove. We left here and traveled
on till we came to a beautiful grove, that
Parley named MtPisgah which was also
planted to vegatation and enclosed with a
fence and hounses built to accomidate our
friends who were left behind, Next we came
to the home of the Pottowatomies this was
called the Indian Village we found them very
sociable, while there we had a dance. Mr.
St. Clair had his home there and traded with
them he had two wives squaws, his daughter
by his first squaw was well educated, her name
was Ellen she was very graceful on horseback.
We traveled many miles from the Village
and correlted our wagons, this place they
called Cutler's Park. In July we arrived at
the Missouri river near Council Bluffs.
	Here the Mormon Battalion was mustered,

[Column 2]
Cal. Kane came to see about our affairs and
finding so many people homeless and wanderer's
not knowing where to find a resting place,
his heart was drawn out in sympathy for our
untold sufferings and he became a true friend
to our people and ever remained so. We
camped on the west side of the river and called
it Winter Quarters. The brethren built log
cabins and dugouts for their families to
screen them from the winter blasts. Here the
people were taken sick with the scurvy for the
want of vegetables and the common comforts
of life, and some died and laid down their
bodies there, till the call comes "awake come
forth!" As soon as we had camped for the
winter Mr. Pratt, Bro. Hyde and Bro. Taylor
were appointed a mission to England and we
were left camping in our wagons and tents and
as our best men were called away to Mexico
that made the labor harder on the men left
in camp. We were fifteen in family, we had
our teamster with us to do all the work.
Parley Jr. was only nine years and four months
old and not very strong. We had a log room
built to cook in and crowd into in the day-
time, we had to sleep in our wagons all
winter.
	We suffered with cold, hunger, and sickness
Our bread was corn meal ground on a hand
mill and not much to go with it. Mr. Pratt re-
turned from his mission in April after bring
gone over seven months. In his absence our
cattle and horses died and some were lost.
When Mr. Pratt returned President Young
and a company were camped on the Elk
Horn River twenty miles west, ready to start
out as Pioneers to the Mountains. After a
little rest Mr. Pratt began to prepare to go
with a company that was going to start in
June. There were five hundred wagons, and
being short of teamsters the women had to
drive. I drove an ox team a good part of
the way and walked a great many miles.
After traveling a long distance we met the
Pioneers returning from the Valley and camped
with them one day. We continued our
journey and after mauy losses, trials and
hindrances we arrived at our place of destina-
tion in September 1847. This then was a
barren, desolate looking place, but we were
thankful to be where we could have a rest
from our enemies, have peace of mind and
worship the true and living God without any
to molest or make afraid. We renewed our
covenants, had a short winter and very miln
one. Early in the Spring we commenced to
plant our gardens and were blessed with early
crops. We appreciated this very much as we
had been on short rations all winter. We had
to work hard to raise it, as then we did not
understand irrigation. The crickets were
troublesome, and many of our people suffered
for the want of food. We had lost nearly all
our cows and the few left were dry.
			[To be continued.]


