GIRLS BEHIND THE COUNTER.

	If I were asked to give a set of rules or
suggestions for girls whose days are spent be-
hind the counter they would read something 
like this:—
	Remember that all the time spent in the
store belongs to your employer.
	That courtesy behind the counter wins even
the most captious customer.
	That gossip about young men, or with them,
is unbusiness-like, and under the circumstances,
rude.
	Never attempt to instruct a customer; while
you may suggest, or politely question, the
desirability of this or that.
	Do not say, “Here, Sade, hand me your
pencil,” to your neighbor.
	Never say “No,we haven’t got it,” in a short,
crisp tone; far better a polite “I am sorry to
say we do not have it in stock.”
	Do not thrust a package at a customer as
you would a pistol in the face of a highway-
man.
	Never throw down goods with an air which
seems to say, “I do not care whether you bny
it or not.
	Remember that the purchaser often sees
more in the seller than she thinks, and refined
young women have made valuable friends for
life by their courtesy to an accomplished
customer.
	Always remember, that duty to your
employer demands your best service, and duty
to yourself also.
	Seek to be a model saleswoman, and some
one will soon recognize your merits.
	Dress modestly and avoid cheap jewelry, the
best ornaments are: promptness, politeness, and
a well modulated voice, and strict atrention
to duty.
	Have your hair neatly combed yonr teeth
well brushed and your finger-nails tidy.


Customers are often repelled by uutidy clerks
of either sex.
	Remember always, that you are superior to
circumstances only when you make yourself
so. The most selfish, exacting employer will
gladly recognize the merits of an efficient
clerk.	
	Frown down with womanly scorn the non-
sensical title of "saleslady." It is a great
thing to be a woman anything; if you are a
true and goud woman, a good clerk is infinitely
more respectable than a so-called "saleslady,"
and the term has a shoddyish ring which is
totally un-American.
	Out of two hundred clerks in a large es-
tablishment, the favorite with nearly all of the
customers is a young women who invariably
dresses in black, and has such charming
manners that it is a positive pleasure to visit
her department.—Kate Tannatt Woods, in
Ladies Home Journal.


