SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	DECEMBER 15, 1890.


[Column 1]﻿
CHRISTMAS—PEACE AND GOOD-WILL.
	Christmas time always brings up old memories
and associations, recalls home and childhood and
those with whom we have mingled in former days.
The tenderest feelings and emotions are
awakened and benevolence, peace and good-will
towards all mankind takes possession of us for
the time being at least; and the higher and better
attributes and qualities of the soul are brought
out in enlarged charity and gentler kindness;
those whom Providence has smiled upon munifi-
cently make grateful acknowledgements of divine
favor by bestowing upon others, their friends and
neighbors, gifts; and temporal blessings upon the
poor and unfortunate. But after all how much of
the charity St. Paul speaks of in the New Testa-
ment do we exercise; the charity that surpasses
all else, that suffereth long and is kind, that is
greater than bestowing all one’s goods to feed
the poor, that must indeed be pure love of one’s
fellow men, devoid of envy, jealousy,or a hope of
reward; the love that our Savior manifested when
He gave Himself a ransom for all mankind, to
redeem the world, not for His own glory but un-
selfishly to do the will of His Father.
	Is there any other day in all the year that calls
to mind such generous impulses, and gives to the
individual believer in the babe of Bethlehem,such
longings to be like unto Him who when He was
reviled, reviled not again, and who bore with
meekness and patience all crosses and sorrows
even suffering an ignominious death with those
sublime words upon his dying lips, that have
reached through the ages down, to our day.
Father forgive them for they know not what they
do?”
While we profess to be His followers shall we not
in some degree attempt to reach this high
standard of greatness and excellence by some act
of forgiveness, or sublime charity more than giv-
ing good gifts to those from whom we receive in
return. Is not this what we try to do to satisfy
our own consciences? Do we go into the high-
ways and byways and seek out the poor and
the suffering, and minister unto them as He did
whose example we should imitate in as much as
the human can emulate the infinite. Humility in
its perfection characterized the life of Christ, and
yet those who have taken upon themselves
His name are full of pride and arrogance despis-
ing those who are not in possession of wealth or
culture, and passing them by on the other side
as the Levite did the poor man who fell among
thieves, but we should be at any rate once in a
year at Christmas time like the good Samaritan;
who bound up the wounds and ministered to the
comfort of the poor man.
	New resolves concerning our acts ot kindness
to others, or even of generosity is not all; it is
not enough that we give our goods to feed the
poor, or even offer up what we consider a great

[Column 2]
sacrifice, nor that we forgive those who have
traspassed against us, if we would be accepted of
our Father in heaven, but cultivate that love to-
wards our fellow men that our Savior had, and
live at all times according to the light and
knowledge we have received, for it was said by
one of old “Obedience is better than sacrifice.”
	We should be joyful at Christmas time for the
sake of the children, if not our own, and even if
burdens oppress us or griefs have overtaken us
lay them aside for the time being and contribute
in some measure to the enjoyment of others. It
is pleasant to see the great gatherings of large
families, and it is an especial delight to watch
the children’s exuberance and gaiety on the ad-
vent of Santa Claus, and the good dinners that
are always an adjunct of the occasion.
	Children enjoy giving and it is a happy manner
of teaching the principle of charity to the little
ones, to allow them to give from their own portion
of toys or luxuries, to those who have less of the
good things of this life.
	Children’s impressions are deep-seated and
strong and often follow them through life, and
perhaps there is not a day that fastens itself
more closely upon the heart and remembrance,
and to which the child when grown to manhood
turns with greater affection than Christmas day
at the old home, whether he goes out into the
world alone, or travels the raging main, on sea
or land wherever he may be, when the blessed
Christmas time comes he invariably recalls the
incidents of home life.
	It is in every sense of the word a red letter
day to all who have ever known the blessing of
a real home and its benign and sanctifying in-
fluence. It throws a halo around the future life
of those who in childhood have partaken of its
joys and pleasures, and participated in the festivi-
ties of these holiday occasions. The middle-aged
and aged all, all classes, all races one might say
share in the general enjoyment and are anxious
to promote the happiness of family and friends
on this day of days. The bells are expressive
of the joy and contentment that floats over the
land and Christmas bells, ring on through hte
coming ages of time the peace and good-will,
that nerve the hosts of men and women to braver
and nobler deeds in the living of their own lives
and serving of their fellowmen.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have on hand Relief Society reports
from several of the Stakes of Zion, but have
postponed publishing them until after the holi-
days to make room for more interesting matter.
"Lost and Found" a story by Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh will be very much better reading and
more suitable for the holiday time than R. S.
Reports or local matters. Mrs. Greenhalgh is a
very versatile,and entertaining, as well as a gifted
writer.
	The Office of the Juvenile Instructor, is just
over the way and every time we look out,it greets
us pleasantly its windows are full of novelties in
the way of toys and books for the children's
Christmas and Santa Claus must have brought
many a heavy load with his reindeers if he sup-
plied the store with these articles. Dolls and
toys in great variety and dolls housekeeping sets,
bedsteads, cradles, baby carriages for dolls and
tables, cupboards, and sideboards, dishes, and
furnishings complete. Cards and and booklets in
new and pretty designs and cheap too, and books
both at wholesale and retail as well as stationery.
The Juvenile Office makes a business of supply-
ing Sunday School Superintendents with books
etc. There is scarcely anything in this line of
goods that this house does not carry. They order
books from the best Eastern dealers, as well as
publish home literature. It is a good place to
[Column 2]
make selections from not only for Christmas pres-
ents, but books for winter evening's at home or
for libraries public or private.

	C. R. Savage at the Art Gallery on Main St.
makes a specialty of pictures, and he displays ex-
cellent taste in his selections and in the art of
photography he excels particularly in scenery.
He keeps an immense stock of this class of
goods and his windows give one a pretty correct
idea of what can be found inside, and has a
variety from which to choose of every style.
He also advertises games of all kinds and prices,
and these quiet pastimes for chi[-]dren and others
as well who are older, serve to while away a
tedious hour when one is tired of work and needs
recreation as well as rest. This establishment
keeps a large and complete line of art supplies
for painting on china, glass, cardboard, canvas,
bolting cloth, satin, velvet, plush etc. In fact the
proprietor has done a great deal in this way to
encourage art and artists. Books in great variety
are also found in Savage's store and numerous
toys and novelties in this line for the holidays.

	Duncan Mc'Allister and Co. have spared no
pains in arranging their Christmas goods and they
have succeeded admirably. They have what might
be termed Christmas itself in the show windows;
there is the old fashioned fireplace with a fire
burning at night—looks like pine knots though,
instead of yule logs, but the blaze is as blue as
that of a Christmas plum pudding, everything is
like a Christmas eve, the little stockings and the
big ones are hung up and Santa Claus himself is
looking in at the window, as if he were waiting
his opportunity to slip in unnoticed. But
McAllister’s windows are not the only attraction
step inside and see what an immense variety of
toys and fancy goods he has,books and magazines
etc., and up stairs the finest goods are arranged
in the most artistic manner possible for the size of
the apartment, here are the most exquisite ban-
ners and hand painted placques and china illus-
trated books booklets and calendars with a
variety of other things too numerous to mention
but go and see.

	The Children's book by Augusta Joyce
Crocheron mentioned in our last issue has been
carefully reviewed and we feel perfectly justified
in recommending it to the people as just what is
needed for the little folks in Zion. It has been
written with a desire to instruct and edify the
reader, and to entertain at the same time. The
author is a mother herself and knows what
pleases the children and has prepared this work
to meet the demand of the rising generation for
a work suited to the times and to their situation
as the children of the Saints, with a thirst for
knowledge that will benefit them as well as to be
interesting to the youthful mind. The book is
illustrated and contains both prose and poetry
suited to the intelligence and capacity of children.
It is in every sense of the word what its title indi-
cates, "The Children's Book," price $1,50 for sale
here and at the Woman's Co-operative Mercantile
and Manufacturing Institution.
	We have received an elegant Calendar from
"The Woman's Literary Club, Dunkirk N. Y."
printed in Buffalo. It is published on fine heavy
paper with handsome rough cover,on the outside
of which the picture of Sappho is stamped
and a pretty monogram on the back W. L. C. It
contains some tinted photogravures, that are
quite in keeping with the style of the book, and
sentiments, verses and maxims from the most
celebrated women poets and writers. On the fly
leaf is the quotation from Sappho: "Come now
divine shell, become vocal for me," and following
that is the picture of Sappho in her flowing ap-
parel with a veil thrown gracefully over her head,
the sea shell in her hand, as if it were a talisman
or could breathe forth an inspiration. Among


the pictures is one of the house of Maria
Mitchell the astronomer, from the roof of which
she discovered the comet that first brought her
fame. One of the pictures is the parlor in H. H.'s
home. The home of Madame DeStael at Coppet
is another. Each paragraph contains a moral or
maxim that is worth committing to memory. One
or two may give an idea of the value of these
short sentences. People think they know them-
selves because they are untried. Frederika
Bremer. Work; work, this is my unfailing cure
for all troubles. Lydia Maria Child. Duty only
frowns when you flee from it; follow it, and it
smiles upon you. Carmen Sylva. Wars are or-
ganized mobs. Clara Barton. Show me the
mothers of a country and I will tell you of its sons,
Mary Seymour Howell. The ideal of woman
cannot be lowered without that of manhood
suffering also. Ednah D. Cheney. I do not see
how we are to govern others unless we first learn
to govern ourselves. St. Catharine of Siena.
Gossip pretending to have the eyes of an Argus,
has all the blindness of a bat. Ouida. The
Calendar contains 24 pages of reading matter, all
rich with gems of thought.


