LOST AND FOUND.
	     M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
	In the soft, mellow, twilight of a bright
December day a lady past middle age, sat in
a luxuriously furnished boudoir. Her attit-
tude and contour, accorded well with the “dim
religious light,” which rested on her alone
while it left the other portions of the room in
the deepest gloom.
	The last rays of the closing day seemed to
concentrate around her as tho’ unwilling the
darkness should conceal that calm placid brow,
and sweetly curved lips, from which niether
sorrow or time had been able to steal the
amiable expression.
	The house in which that boudoir was
situated was one of London’s stateliest mansions.
It stood at the corner of an old square at the
West end, but was not the less aristocratic be-
cause of its age, for every house in that square
belonged to a family who really had ancestors,
and of those ancesters they had reason to be
proud, and none more so, perhaps, than the
lady above alluded too. She had wealth in
abundance, and the entree into the highest
circles, even royalty welcomed her with more
than courtly politeness when she appeared
among them. She was benevolent almost to
a fault, for few ever sought her aid in vain;
yet, she resided in that princely home alone
surrounded only by dependents, but they were
faithful, and watched over her tenderly, for 
they loved her, and in their love they carefully
tended her. It was no secret that in early life
she had suffered from some great sorrow, but
few knew the true cause. At twenty-five, her
hair had become quite white, it was thus sor-
row left its mark. As a girl she was very
beautiful, and her beauty was peccliar; her
skin was of dazzling whiteness, her eyes blue,
hair, eyebrows, and eyelashes, were nearly
black, so dark that until the sun shone upon
them no color could be perceived in them.
She was my senior by several years and as a
child I almost worshipped her. I had been 
absent from England two years, and on my
return I found her as I have described her,
still bearing her maiden name Marrianne
Lester. When I went away it was publicly
know that she was engaged to a Mr. Holds-
worth and the day fixed for the marriage, but
one week previous to the date announced for
the ceremony, a paragraph in the newspaper
announcing the marriage of Edward Holds-
worth, her affianced husband, to a Miss Elise
Blessi. Miss Blessi was from Switzerland, and
Marrianne had met her in Paris, she had in-
vited her to her father’s house, on a visit,
which was to extend till after Marrianna’s
marriage. There Holdsworth had met her, 
and the result was an elopement, and marriage.
	It was the oft told tale, a fickle minded man
and a false friend. After the marriage the
pair had gone to Switzerland, there to remain
until the scandal should be partially forgotten.
Marrianne uttered no complaint, but quietly
left England for a tour in Italy. On reaching
Florence she was taken ill, the strain had
prostrated her, and for a time she was a wreck
mentally and physically, of her former self.
A good constitution, and careful nursing, re-
stored her to her family with her beauty but
little impaired, her amiability more pronounced
and her hair bleached to a perfect white, by
sorrow and suffering. It was thus I met her


on my return home, and heard from her
parents her sad story. When she was about
twenty-eight she was married to a Mr. Whit-
more; he was an officer of high rank in the
British army, and just the kind of a man to
estimate such a woman aright. Her happiness
however, was of short duration, for nine months
after they were married, her husbaud’s regi-
ment was ordered to the East Indies, that
country was then in a very unsettled state and
ladies were advised by the government not to
accompany their husbands, so Marrianne
parted with her husband and they met no more
on earth. Three months after Mr. Whitmore’s
departure a boy was born to them, the advent
of her son, relieved the monotony of her life,
and gave a new zest to her existence. When
her child was a little more than one year old,
she received the announcement of her hus-
band’s death, through cholera. She was now
a wealthy widow, not yet thirty-one years of
age, with only her boy to claim her attention
and care. After a time she had numerous
offers of marriage, but refused them all, for as
she said, I have been twice widowed, that
surely is enough in one lifetime.
	As the boy grew toward manhood he gave
every promise of being a worthy successor to
his noble father after whom he had been
named, Edgar. He passed through his school
days with credit, and to the university with
every prospect of a brilliant career. He had
been carefully trained by his mother in the
path of duty and rectitude, and she thought
she need have no fear for his future. Alas,
how often our brightest hopes are clouded
over when we least expect it. Edgar got
among a bad set, at Oxford, was led on from
one excess to another became a drunkard, and
gambler,and finally in a drunken brawl,stabbed
a fellow student, as he supposed fatally. To
save himself from arrest, he escaped to Liver-
pool, from there he sent to his mother for
money and after receiving it he disappeared;
from that time he had never been heard of. Is
there any wonder that in her loneliness,
Marrianne Whitmore was sad? Of Edward
Holdsworth she knew nothing,he had gone out
of her life and no one spoke of him in her pres-
ence.
	This is a brief sketch of her life,prior to the
December evening when we first introduced
her to our readers. It was four days before
the one which would usher in the New Year;
she had invited a neice, who had just returned
from school in Paris to make her a long visit
so that she might introduce her into society,
or as it is termed, bring her out, and a more
accomplished and graceful chaperon she could
not have had. As she sat in the twilight she
was listening for the arrival of the carriage;
propared to go down at the first sound of the
house bell to receive, and welcome her visitor.
The carriage arrived while the servant was
lighting the lamps, she quickly descended to
the hall, and to her surprise saw two young
ladies leave the carriage, one sprang lightly up
the marble steps, and into the extended arms
of her aunt; the other came slowly and hesi-
tatingly and in the doorway stopped, waiting
for an invitation to enter.
	“Oh, aunt Marrianne,” said the neice, how
kind it was of you to send for me, it was
dreadfully dull in the country except on
Christmas day; how I shall enjoy being in
London, but, oh dear I had forgotten, I have
a surprise for you. I have brought a dear
friend with me, I knew it would be all right
with you. She had no home to go to for the
holidays, she has been like a sister to me, and
I knew you would love her for that, and after-
wards for herself when you know her.”
	“You mad cap,” said her aunt, “why did
you not bring her in, and not leave her stand-
ing outside, come here, my dear,” and she

[Column 2]
drew the stranger to her, and gave her a wel-
coming kiss.
	“Dear madam,” said the girl, “this is indeed
kind, I never thought to receive such  a wel-
come.” “I told you how it would be with aunt
Marrianne,” said Mathilde, “why aunty mama
tried all she could to keep her, to supply my
place she said, just think of it, when I had
such a dear generous aunt in London; but you
will take cold aunty and I am hungry, let us
go to my room and change our dresses and we
will be down so quickly that you will wonder
how we accomplished such a metamorphis in
so short a time.” The maid, who was waiting
led the way up the stairs and the two girls
want to the room prepared for the niece until
one could be made ready for the unexpected
guest.
	Directly after the girls descended to the draw-
ing room dinner was announced, and as the
three were leaving to go to the dining room,
Mrs. Whitmore smilingly said “Mathilde, has
your friend a name, I should like to know it if
she has?” How stupid of me aunty, why of
course she has, and a very sweet one too, it is
Florence Holdsworth, quite English, is it not
although her parents were Swiss, but, what is
the matter,you are ill, aunty,"for at the mention
of the girl’s name, Mrs. Whitmore had turned
deathly pale, and only by the exercise of her
strong will, had kept herself from fainting.
	She recovered herself quickly, saying, “no,
my dear, I felt a sudden chill,I am better now,
lut us go to dinner.”
	During the meal nothing more was said of
Florence,but in the evening in the drawing room
Mrs. Whitmore questioned the girl, until she
had heard all that she knew of her parentage.
“Her parents,” she said, had lived in Paris,
her mother died when she was two days old,
her father gave her into the care of a nurse,
so she had been told; when she was three years
old the nurse married a soldier, and placed
her in a home for orphans telling the good
sisters who managed it, that her father would
claim her and pay them for their trouble.
	He came once to see her, and finding his
child would be well taken care of, he left a
sum of money, sufficient to provide for all her
wants, until he should return, which he would
in about five years, she would then be old
enough to go to school, and he would relieve
the sisters of their charge. He was going with
an exploring party to south Africa, they would
visit the, then much talked of, diamond fields
and on his return would make a home for him-
self and little daughter. He had never re-
turned to claim her, and at the age of fourteen
the committee of the orphanage had placed
her in the school where Mathilde found her.
She had been kindly treated but had nowhere
to go for a holiday, and had seen but little of
the world outside the school, until Mathilde
brought her to England, and she must return
there when her visit terminated. “Is it not
dreadful, aunty to have no holidays,” said
Mathilde, “and it would have been no holiday
in the country, and I not there, I do not like
to oppose mama, it is wrong to do so, but I
could not help it this time, and you are glad I
brought her, are you not, aunt Marrianne.
	“Very glad indeed my dear, and she shall
have a long holiday, I will write to the school,
and arrange for her stay. Will this arrange-
ment suit you Florence?”
	“Indeed it will, dear madam, I seem to have
had a glimpse of Paradise and only fear I shall
find it but a glorious dream, and that I shall
awake to find myself in the school room, an
orphan, and unknown.
	By the day following Mrs. Whitmore had
learned all Florence could tell of her history
and had come to the conclusion she was the
daughter of her former lover; but, the sin of
the father must not be visited upon the child

[Column 3]
and she would keep her until she could find
her relatives.
	No doubt thought Mrs. Whitmore, Holds-
worth is dead, but his parents may be alive,
or his sister, he was an only son, and at the
death of his parents would inherit consider-
able property He had an independency of
his own left him by an uncle so may be traced
through his lawyers or bankers; thus she rea-
soned. Mrs. Whitmore was childless now, and
this girl would, in a measure, fill the void in
her heart. In the privacy of her chamber
she prayed for strength and guidance to carry
out the project she had formed. She had
invited a large party to a dinner and ball on
New Year’s day, at which her neice was to make
her debut, she would now have two to chape-
rone, and Florence must be provided with a
costume for the occasion, Mathilde was well
suppliod in that particular. During lunch
Mrs. Whitmore invited the girls to go with
her on a shopping expedition,saying as Florence
was not likely to have any more holidays, this
one must be made as pleasant as possible.
“Aunt Mathilde, it is too sad to think of no
more holidays,” and she kissed her friend,
whose eyes had filled with tears. “She will
not need any, for she will not return to the
school, that is, if she will be content to remain
with me, mine is a lonely life, but I will en-
deavor to enlighten hers, if she will accept my
offer.”
	“Accept, dear madam, cried Florence, you
cannot tell how thankfully, and by God’s help
you shall never have cause to regret your kind-
ness.”
	Mrs. Whitmore personally selected the
necessary dress for her protege. She was a
little anxious for the eventful evening,Florence
had not been in society,she might be awkword
and shy, but when the two girls appeared, her
anxiety gave way to surprise, at the perfect
ease, and sang froid of Florence and now that
she was elegantly, and becomingly dressed she
saw how beautiful she was, and at the first
opportunity whispered to her, saying, “I am
more than pleased with your appearance and
manner Florence.”
	“Dear madam how can I ever sufficiently
repay all your generosity and kindness,” re-
plied Florence. “By calling me Aunt Marri-
anne for the future, and being to me all a
niece should be, Mathilde will not be with me
long, and I want a companion,” said the elder
lady.
	The party was a very brilliant one, and the
advent of the two girls into society a success.
	Mrs. Whitmore instructed her lawyer to
ascertain if the parents of Holdsworth were
still living, and if anything was known of his
whereabouts; not that she wanted to part with
Florence, but to know if he was alive and had
deserted his daughter, an act she believed him
capable of, after his conduct towards herself.
	Mrs. Whitmore understood now, why her
brother’s wife endeavored to prevent Mathilde
bringing Florence with her. She had no idea
who the girl was, but thought the name she
bore would call up unpleasant memories, and
did not wish to add one drop to the cup al-
ready filled to overflowing with sorrow, of her
amiable relative The lawyer reported that
the parents of Holdsworth were dead, and his
sister had heard nothing from him for years,she
was holding his portion of the property until
his return, or till the time had expired when
the law would consider him dead. Of this
Florence was not informed; and when in the
Spring Mrs. Whitmore proposed a trip to
Switzerland,the girls were delighted, especially
Florence. She knew it was the home of her
mother, and perhaps she might find her rela-
tives. “Do you know what was your mother’s
maiden name?’ enquired Mrs. Whitmore.
Florence said she had never heard it, and
smiled at her own thoughtlessness, seeing how


[column 1] 
futile was the hope of ever finding her mother's
family; yet she could perhaps find the Holds-
worths, for she did not know but they were 
Swiss also. How little she thought that her
mother was once the schoolmate and trusted
friend of the lady who had adopted her, and
who was taking this journey to find her rela-
tives, and if possible ascertain if there were 
any other children of Holdsworth, especially
if there was a son, if there was, he was entitled
to the property of his father, and she would
put him in the way to claim it. The Blessi's
she knew had lived near the Lake of Zurich,
and to the City of Zurich she first went. With
little trouble she learned that, the grand-
parents of Florence were dead, but a brother of
Mrs. Holdsworth occupied the old home. To 
him she went and learned that his sister had
never been strong after her marriage, she had
four children, all of whom died in their infancy
after the last one died, Holdsworth took his
wife to Paris, for the purpose of consulting a
celebrated physician. She died there, and he
had heard nothing of her husband since, and
he thought there could be no child alive. Mrs.
Whitmore kept all this from Florence, Blessi
was a farmer, and not too well off, and she
destined Florence for a higher position.
	They spent the Summer among the Swiss
Alps, and after visiting Lake Lucerne returned
to London.
	During her absence Mrs. Whitmore's lawyers
had not been idle, but all they could learn
was that, Holdsworth had closed his account
with his bankers, and left the country nearly
twenty years before.
	They urged upon Mrs. Whitmore the 
necessity of Florence claiming her father's
property, but she hesitated, perhaps Holds-
worth may return, at least she would wait un-
til Florence was twenty-one, she was now nine-
teen, and did not need it. Mathilde was two
years older, she was going to marry a gentle-
man whose property adjoined her father's and
reside most of the time in the country. Mrs.
Whitmore and Florence would then be left
alone, in that grand old home, and if the elder
lady was not happy she was resigned, while the
younger one was radiantly happy. As the
months rolled by Florence received many
offers of marriage, but refused them all, either 
her heart was untouched, or she would not
leave the desolate woman whom she so dearly 
loved.
	Abut one week prior to the twenty-first an-
niversary of Florence's birthday the two ladies
were riding in Hyde Park; a gentleman on 
horseback passed them, as he did so Mrs.
Whitmore raised her eyes to his face, their
eyes met and something in him reminded her
of the past, of some one she had known, but 
where, or when, she could not recall to memory.
They were preparing to celebrate Florence's 
birthday with more than usual festivities, and 
the incident was forgotten.
	Mrs. Whitmore had presented Florence with
a splendid set of pearls, as a birthday gift, 
and she herself had selected the dress she
would wear with them, at the ball.
	When Florence appeared in the drawing
room she was the cynosure of all eyes, she had
developed into a splendid woman, with the
fair skin and blue eyes of her Swiss mother,
and the bright auburn tresses of her father
which Mrs. Whitmore so well remembered. Just
before dinner a note was brought to Mrs.
Whitmore, it contained only these words,
"Edward Holdsworth is in London" it came 
from her lawyer, and he left word with the
servant that he would call the next day. The
news gave her a shock, and for a few moments
she felt a sensation, almost like despari. Was
the girl she had learned to love so well to be
taken from her, and must she again be left 
alone with her sorrow? A little reflection how-
[column 2]
ever, convinced her that Florence would not 
desert her even for her father.
	She now knew who the man was she had
seen in the park, and she must nerve herself
to meet him, and talk to  him. On the morrow
her lawyer told her that Holdsworth had
heard of their inquiries respecting him, and 
called to know what they wanted him for.
	He was told that they must see their client
before informing him, and they would write
him in a few days, if he would leave his 
address, he seemed much annoyed at their 
reticence, and now what was to be done.
	"I will see him myself," said Mrs. Whit-
more, "Florence, I have not told anything, not
even of the efforts you have made so find her 
father, and she must be kept in ignorance a
little longer, ask him to call upon me as soon
as possible, but be careful not to give a hint of
who I am, he may not recognize me, at which 
I shall feel pleased, if he does we can not help
it, at any rate I must see him."
	At five o'clock of the next day a card was
handed to Marrianne, bearing the name of
Edward Holdsworth, and a request for an in-
terview accompanied it. She was dressed
ready to accompany Florence to an evening
party, she knew the young lady would be some
time before she was ready and hoped the inter-
view would terminate before she came down,
and she desired the servant to show him into 
the drawing room. As he entered she rose to
receive him saying, "you wished to see me Mr. 
Holdsworth."
	Edward had not recognized her features,
but when she spoke, he knew her voice, and
exclaimed, "Marrianne, Mrs. Whitmore, why
have you sought me. I have wronged you 
deeply, and have suffered for it, be merciful
and spare me now?" "It is to avenge that
wrong that I tried to find you and my Nemesis
will heap coals of fire upon your head;" tell
true," she continued, "have you any children?"
"I fear not," he answered, "I left a little girl
in Paris, when I left Europe, but I can not
trace her, the lady who kept the school where
she was educated is dead, and her successors
know nothing of my little Florence, she would
now be twenty-one, and what would I not give 
to give to find her?" "How long is it since
you deserted her?"
	"I did not mean to desert her, I left money
to support her for five years, intending to re-
turn by that time, circumstances I could not
control prevented me, I wrote to the institution
where I left her and they replied, stating that
she was well and still with them, still hoping 
to return I neglected to write. One year ago
I arrived in Paris, and went to enquire for my
daughter. The books were produced and the
record showed that she had been sent to a cer-
tain school at the age of fourteen and as I
told you at first I can not find her." "Do
you deserve to find her?" was the next question.
"Mrs. Whitmore you are severe, but from you
I can bear much, tell me what you have to 
say, and I will not trouble you longer."
	At that moment Florence entered the
room and was going to ask her aunt if her
dress was satisfactory but seeing a stranger she
stopped and commenced an apology. "Come
here, my darling," said Mrs. Whitmore "I
wish to introduce you to this gentleman, my
adopted neice Mr. Holdsworth."
	"Florence this is your father!"
	Father and daughter looked at each other a
moment in silence, then the father held out
his arms, and was about to embrace her, but
she drew back to the side of her aunt, saying, 
"You must be misinformed, my dear aunt, it
cannot be true, this man is not my father, or
he would have found me before this, and cared 
for me, you are the only being on this earth
for whom I have a filial attachment, do not 
send me from you, to a stranger and she burst
into tears." "I will never do so against your
[column 3]
wish Florence," then to Holdsworth, "This is
how I have avenged the wrong you did me,
your daughter came to my house a friendless
orphan. When I heard her name and
history I knew who she was, you see what she
is. I took her to Switzerland found her uncle,
he did not know of her existence, I did not
enlighten him, for I had determined to keep
her with me, and she does not know what her
mother's name was, nor that she was once my
friend and you my affianced husband. she has
heard it now, let her choose between us, she is
of full age and you cannot claim her." "And
if he did it would be useless," said Florence.
"You I will not leave until you force me to 
do so." "You hear her decision Edward
Holdsworth, I have my revenge, now go, and
be happy if you can."
	"Surely you will permit me to see her alone
and reason with her; you do not know what
it is to be deprived of wife and children, or you
would have compassion on me." "Do I not 
listen, I was the beloved wife of a noble 
husband, I had a son, and when he was but a 
child, his father died, my son grew to man-
hood, and bade fair to make as good a man as
his father, like me, he was betrayed by a false
friend, he left England, and I do not know
where or what he is, or if he is alive or dead.
I did not desert him and would have given
my life to have saved his, and I would sacri-
fice all I posess to day if it would give me
back my son." "Mrs. Whitmore what is your
sons name?" asked Holdsworth excitedly.
"Edgar" she replied. "Then I believe I can 
tell you something of him, I met a Mr. Edgar
Whitmore in Cape Town South Africa, he
told me a little of his past, the reason why he
left England, that he dare not return, some
friend keeps him informed of your movements,
he knew of your adoption of Florence, and it
pleased him, for he thought it would comfort
you. He is wealthy for he was fortunate at the
diamond fields, and would be only too glad to
return if it was safe for him to do so, he knew 
his arrest would kill you, and prefered that
yov should mourn him as dead, it was better
so than disgrace he thought. How little I 
thought that the mother he loved so tenderly
was the woman I had wronged, and the girl
she had adopted my own child. I can give
you the address of his bankers at Cape Town,
and through them you can communicate with
him." "He need never have left England,"
said Mrs. Whitmore "had he written to my
lawyers they would have informed him that the
man he stabbed did not die, and he admitted
to the authorities that he had led Edgar into
excesses which in his sober moments he 
abhorred. He had cheated him at cards, had 
borrowed money from him, and when Edgar
would lend him no more he taunted him, until
the boy was driven to madness, and the sequel
you know."
	Mr. Holdsworth gave her the address. The 
next day her lawyers wrote to the bank en-
closing a letter from Mrs. Whitmore to her 
son.
	In less than a year he reached home, and 
before another had passed he was the husband
of Florence, who admitted after she was
married, that she had been in love with him
from the time she first saw his portrait, and that
was why she had refused all offers of marriage,
soe had always had a presentment that some
day she would meet the original.
	Edgar's friend had given him a discription
os Florance as he had seen her in public, so
that when he received his mother's letter he 
resolved if he could win her affection his
mother should have a daughter she loved,
and could call her own. Mrs. Whitmore re-
ceived Holdsworth as a friend, he had been the
means of her finding her son the past could
not be recalled, and it was best to bury it in 
oblivion, and appreciate present happiness.


