DEAR EXPONENT:
	Our life here seems uneventful compared to
yours in "Dear Utah," months have passed since
our return, and yet much has happened that was
important to us. I am perhaps vain when I fancy
it may be of interest to many dear friends in the
"land of my birth," to relate some of them.
	My dear mother's presence here was the signal
for many pleasant gatherings, for spirited and
spiritual feasts, when the gifts were ours and she
seemed the humble and chosen one to be like a
ministering angel to us, giving new courage and
patience, by her cheerful precepts and example, but
like most of our earthly joys, she has left us, only
I trust for a season. Perhaps she has told you
of our Fair, held jointly by the R. S., Y. L. M. I.
A., and the Primary Association. Like all such
affairs it was a big success, we all opened our
eyes to see how many useful, pretty and necessary
articles were in our possession, how wonderfully
smart our little ones are, and what great big de-
licious, vegetables we have in abundence, a turnip
that weighed 23lbs. Eleven potatoes 27lbs.
Golden butter, white bread, pies, cakes and tarts
all made by the deft little fingers of our dear child
ren. Then the agreeable and genuine surprise
given by the Pres. and members of the Relief
Society to their beloved President, Sister Zina
"Our mother" as they call her.
	We had a charming visit from Prof. Saunders,
Gov. Agent for the Experimental Farms, of which
there are five. He came to see what progress we
were making as agriculturists, expressed himself
as surprised and pleased with our progress, and
predicted a bright and prosperous future for us.
	Mr. Ross, Superentendent and builder of the
great Canadian Pacific R. R. gave us a call, he
came to look at the country with a view to build_
ing a new road from Edmonton some 500 miles
north, down through this section of country
across the line. The new road will be the high-
way for coal, coal oil, minerals, timber and the
products of the ranchers and farmers of this great
land.
	The opening of the Canadian and Great Falls
Railroad is another important feature here,giving
us direct communication by rail within 50 miles,
and gives a new impetus to business generally.
	Now my dear friends if you want to come and
see us, remember it is only 800 miles, will cost
you about the same as a trip to San Francisco,
or less, and you can get here inside of four days.
We do not live in an Eden, nor without hard
work. but we have plenty to eat, plenty to wear,

[column 2]
can guarantee to keep you cool in Summer and
warm in winter.
	John T. Caine is elected, some may say, what's
that to you? Just let me whisper in your ear, I
was born in Utah,and every thing that effects her
finds an echo in my heart, do you think any Utah
boy or girl could read the rousing speeches from
our own faithful sons, fathers and husbands with-
out saying "God bless and help them forever?"
	Often my soul is singing:

"O dear Utah I sigh for thee in vain,
Fain would I die to free thee from the despot's iron chain;
Once thou coulds't boast of freedom in thy mountains
	vales and glens,
O! give me back those good old days, and my dear old
	home again!"

	What Jerusalem is to the Jew,—so is Utah to
the hearts of her mountain boys and girls, yet I
would not, could not live there now. Why? be-
cause the holy priesthood has said my place was
here. So my wings are folded, content in my
nest, I sing, no I mean chirp to my little brood,
try to be content with all the changes that find
me, some unprepared and some otherwise,
amongst the former was the "Manifesto," it took
my breath away, but it gradually narrowed down
from what at first seemed a strange pill to the very
draught that was needed in our present state, re-
ligiously and politically. It has caused some
comment here from various stand points, but we
feel our true position is known and appreciated
now as it could not be before the issuing of the
Manifesto, and the saints here as a whole all feel
our leaders are carrying on Christ's work to victory
and are one with the saints in the land of Zion.
	Hum! I fear you will think me tedious so will
just add, the health of the saints is excellent,
weather delightful. Pres. Card's brief visit filled
all with new courage. Our school will begin next
week with Sterling Williams as teacher. All our
Societies are in excellent running order.
	Love to all the dear ones, and hope if any feel
that they are neglected they will know they live
with truer and more enduring ties in the heart of
their absent sister and friend,
						ZINA Y. CARD.
	Cardston, Alberta Canada, Nov. 20, 1890.


