CHRISTMAS EVE,
'Tis sweet Christmas Eve, O my darling,
	The blessed, the glad Christmas eve,
And under the bloom of the starlight,
	I'm waiting and listening for thee.
Oh canst thou not hear the low calling
	My spirit wafts outward to thine?
A tender wave rising and falling
	Entreating thy soul answer mine?

Oh, gladly I think of the manger
	And Him who so lowly was laid,
The sages who greeted the stranger
	And gifts at his tiny feet laid,
The mother so happy and holy,
	And Joseph so gentle and true,
The shepherds who bowed them so lowly,
	And the star lighting midnight so blue.

The beautiful chorus of angels
	Their happiness pouring in song,
Their greeting to earth and to mortals
	Which echo still carries along,
The love which looked down out of heaven
	Enfolding the children of earth,—
To us its best treasure was given,
	And so our Redeemer had birth.

Oh, love is the light of high heaven,
	The soul of the universe fair;
To win us above it was given,
	And will be our glory when there;
Then proudly I own that I love thee
	And long for thy coming tonight;
May all these bright star-eyes above thee
	Remind thee of me with their light.

A year ago, darling, you sought me
	And patiently waited my feet,
A gift in your hand too you brought me,
	Bestowed with a kiss pure and sweet.
Oh dear were the kiss and the token,
	And clear the light in thine eye,
And precious the words which were spoken
	Beneath the deep starlight sky

Thou comest not, yet I’ll not doubt these,
	Thou best of the image of God;
His blessings and peace be about thee,
	His word be thy staff and thy rod.
Though I nevermore should behold thee
	Nor hear the dear sound of thy voice,
His love ever warmly enfold thee
	And thou in His goodness rejoice.

Oh, hark! as the clear angel voices
	Roll sweetly the firmament through,
Dissolve my glad soul in their chorus
	And ope to my wondering view
The present, the past and the future,—
	Like the shepherds from Judea's sod
Enraptured I look up to heaven,
	For love makes me one with God.
