NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN
		SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
	The twenty-third annual convention of the
National-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will be held in Washington, D. C., in
Albaugh’s Opera House, Feb. 26—March 1st,
1891.
	Each annual convention has recorded an
increasing public sentiment in favor of woman’s
legal and political enfranchisement. Largely
as a consequence of our movement, the in-
dustries and learned professions have been
opened to women, laws have been changed
to secure protection for her personal and
property rights, and she has been welcomed
to a partial participation in government, as a
school voter in twenty-two States, as a munipal
voter in Kansas, and a holder of important
public offices in nearly every State in the
Union. But the coming convention will have a
fuller significance than any that preceded it.

	The admission of Wyoming into the Union

[Column 2]
as a State with equal rights for women
guaranteed in its organic law, not only sets its
sovereign seal of approval upon woman suffrage
after practical experience for twenty-one
years, but makes women a recognized factor
in national politics. Hereafter the chief
executive and the members of both houses of
Congress will owe their election partly to the
votes of women. The injustice and absurdity
of allowing women in one State to be sovereign
rulers, and across the line in every direction
obliging them to occupy the position of a
subject class, taxed without representation and
governed without consent, and this in a nation
which by its Constitution guarantees equal
rights, to all the States, and equal protection
to all the citizens, must soon be manifest even
to the most conservative and prejudiced. We
therefore congratulate the friends of woman
suffrage everywhere that at last there is one
spot under the American flag where justice is
done to women. Wyoming, is all hail ! the
first true Republic the world has ever seen !

	The present is a time of upheaval in politics.
New ideas are pushing to the front. The
brotherhood of humanity, the establishment
of justice, the protection of the weak, the
value of the individual, the right of all to
equal privileges and opportunities, are now
not only the rallying cry of moral and social
leaders, but are pressing forward to the ballot-
box as the expression of the popular will.
These all include and hinge upon the en
franchisement of women. Let us, therefore,
gather to this convention as those who know
that their cause is the outcome of all the heroic
struggles for freedom which have been made
in the past, and the forerunner of a more
perfect realization of the principles of republi-
can government.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON President.
	SUTAN B. Anthony—Vice President at
large.
	LUCY STONE—Chairman Execntive Com-
mittee.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL—Corresponding
Secretary.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY—Recording Sec-
retary.
	JANE H. SPOFFORD—Treasurer.

