Two Favorite Hymns Alice L. Reynolds "God moves in a mysterious way," one of the gems of protestant hymnology, is said to have been the favorite hymn of President Wilford Woodruff. The man who lived in an emotional atmosphere sufficiently exalted to produce this beautiful hymn, deserves the sympathy of all of us, for he was the victim of a mental disease known as nervous despondency. He lived at the time when the founders of the Methodist church were bringing about a spiritual revival, much needed, after a period of spiritual lethargy and indifference. The people who accepted the teachings of Wesley, and others of the leaders of this new faith, were full of zeal. Among these persons was William Cowper, the poet, who was born in 1731 and died in 1800. He pronounced his name as though it were spelled Cooper. Cowper, sensitive over his trouble, withdrew from Londen, and went to live in the little town of Olney, where a wom-, his senior in years, took very good care of him. This woman's name was Mrs. Unwin. She deserves to be remembered in all kindness by Christian people, the world over, for had it not been for the care she gave him there is very great likelihood that the hymn, "God moves in a mysterious way," would never have been written.. Cowper felt that his only chance for a life of reasonable contentment lay in the worship of God and in work; consequently, we find him at one time devoting himself in a wholehearted way to gardening, and at another time to the writing of both poetry and prose. At the time that he wrote this hymn, he was so disturbed mentally that he was practically insane. He ordered a cab and told the cabman to drive him to the Thames river, for he had it in mind to, take his life and thereby end his misery. The cabman, either acc: dentally or purposely, failed to find the river, for it was well known that Cowper wag subject to these spells of insanity, and he brought him back to his lodging. Cowper, greatly surprised at the turn events had taken, accepted it as evidence that his heavenly Father wanted his life preserved. The thoughts and feelings that surged through his mind as a result of this extraordinary experience restored him to a comparatively normal state of mind again, and also gave birth to the valuable hymn, 'God moves in a mysterious way." TWO FAVORITE HYMNS 129 The hymn is one of trust in the unfailing purposes of God. It is a recognition of the fact that we cannot fathom all the ways of God; that we must trust him often where we cannot trace him; and his ways are above us and beyond us, but that they are 'working for our eternal good. In these six stanzas a high level of both thought and feeling is maintained. The words seem to be of the very fiber of the thought and feeling, hence are as natural as an apple on an apples tree, or a hawthorne bud upon a hawthorne bush. The great value of the hymn is to be found in the fact that it is another witness for God. If Cowper were the only man knowing that the things he writes are true, they might be of very great value to himself, but of very little value to anyone else; but this hymn lives on because of the many people who know from their own experience that the things he writes are true. There is scant wonder that it should find an echo in the heart and mind of Wilford Woodruff, a man with a multiplicity of experience revealing the fact that "God moves in a mysterious way." The favorite hymn of President Joseph F. Smith is reported to have been "I know that my Redeemer lives." It seems a very natural thing that this hymn should have made such a large and distinct appeal to President Joseph F. Smith, for his testimony of the Lord Jesus was one of the great and thrilling testimonies that men of God have borne of the Christ in this Latter-day dispensation. Samuel Medley, the author of "I know that my Redeemer lives," was born at Chestnut, Herefordshire, on June 23, 1738. Both his father and grandfather came into public notice in governmental service, but his son appears to have been the most distinguished of the line. The son was a painter, devoting himself to religious themes-in painting, even as the father had done in poetry. He was one of the founders of university College, London, the only college that Robert Browning, the poet, seems to have attended. Samuel Medley was born in 1738 and died in 1799. He was a Baptist minister, having had charge of a Baptist church in Liverpool, England, for many years. He is described as a man of high character, by his biographers, and is reputed to have written twenty hymns, popular in their day. "I know that my Redeemer lives" was written in the 18th century, just ten years after the writing of "God moves in a mysterious way." It speaks well for the spiritual atmosphere of this particular time, that it produced two hymns as full of trust in God, and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, as 130 these hymns are. How refreshing it would be in the 20th century, boasting of its mechanical skill and business efficiency, if two hymns of equal faith could be produced from the various groups that form the Christian churches of our day. The author of this hymn, went to the Bible for his opening sentence, and selected therefrom the noble words of Job, "I know that my Redeemer lives." C This hymn is particularly felicitous in its thought-content and in its diction. After the first assertion that the "Redeemer lives," follows the statement that "He lives, he lives," then he reiterates the same thought in varied manner telling the ways in which the risen Redeemer can help mankind, the Redeemer who "lives to bless in time of need;' who "lives the hungry soul to feed;" who "lives to silence all our fears;" who "lives to wipe away our tears." Thus the poet continues, and in this hymn of seven stanzas he details eighteen ways in which the Lord can bless us. It is not to be wondered at that he should write in the beginning: "I know that my Redeemer lives, what comfort this sweet sentence gives," and that he should repeat the same thought at the conclusion, in language slightly changed, but heightened in its emotional quality, "I know that my Redeemer lives. O, the sweet joy this sentence gives." The explicitness of this hymn adds to its value as a hymn. It has been said that women are prone to write hymns devoted to the spiritual meaning of the Christ life, and of a truth it is a noble subject worthy of the best efforts of the best. Perhaps in the days that are to come, greater hymns will be written with the Divine Master as the central theme. We are, perhaps, justified in expecting these hymns from two sources. First, from the Latter-day Saints, who, in the midst of apology and a great amount of meaningless explanation in relation to the Savior on the part of an all too skeptical world say, fearlessly to that world, that they know that Christ lives and that he is the Redeemer of the world; secondly, from the Jewish people who, in the Lord's due time, will recognize in him their Messiah. Surely, in that day, they will burst into songs of fire and exultant praise; but until that day shall have arrived, we shall doubtless treasure "I know that my Redeemer lives" as one of the greatest of all Christian hymns.