Songs for Relief Society Day On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, when a large jubilee was held in Salt Lake City, a hymn was composed for the celebration, by the late Mrs. Emily Hill Woodmansee. The words of this hymn, "Oh, blest was the day," appear on page 429 of the later editions of the L. D. S. Hymn Book. The words were arranged for the tune, "The Star Spangled Banner." Another song was prepared for a program on the occasion of the sixty-sixth Relief Society anniversary, in 1908. The words were written and adapted to the tune of "My Maryland," by Lillie T. Freeze. The words of these songs are printed herewith, by request, as some of the wards wish to use these hymns on their programs for the Seventeenth of March. OH, BLEST WAS THE DAY I Oh, blest was the day when the Prophet and Seer, Who stands at the head of this last dispensation, Inspir'd from above by "The Father" of Love, Form'd the Daughters of Zion's great organization. Its purpose, indeed, is to comfort and feed The honest and poor in distress and in need. Oh, the Daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor, Should be patterns of faith, hope and charity, pure. Chorus Oh, the Daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor, Should be patterns of faith, hope and charity, pure. II Oh! Daughters of Truth, ye have cause to rejoice, Lo! The key of advancement is placed in your keeping, To help with your might whatsoever is right, To gladden their hearts who are weary of weeping; By commandment divine, Zion's daughters must shine, And all of the sex, e'en as one, should combine; For a oneness of action success will ensure, In resisting the wrongs that 'tis wrong to endure. Chorus 132 Til O woman! God gave thee the longing to bless; Thy touch like Compassion's, is warm and caressing; There is power in thy weakness to soften distress, To brighten the gloom and the darkness depressing: And not in the rear, hence, need woman appear; Her star is ascending, her zenith is near. Like an angel of mercy, she'll stand in the van, The joy of the world, and the glory of man. Chorus IV Oh, be of good cheer, far-extending we see, The rosy-hued dawn like a vision of beauty; Its glory and light can interpreted be: Go on in the pathway of love and of duty! The brave, earnest soul will arrive at its goal; True heroes are crowned as the ages unroll; There is blessing in blessing, admit it we must, And there's honor in helping a cause that is just. Chorus —E. H. Woodmonsee. THE RELIEF SOCIETY We're organized throughout the land For charity, sweet charity; Our aim is noble, purpose grand, For charity, sweet charity; The prophet of the latter-days, Inspired by truth's enlight'ning rays, Has taught the world some better ways, For charity, sweet charity. Oh come and join our worthy cause, For charity, sweet charity; And help fulfil our Father's laws, For charity, sweet charity; The gospel to the poor shall go, Soul hunger they may never know, But in the truth, forever grow, With charity, sweet charity. 134 church organizations, chambers of commerce, women's clubs, ivic clubs of various kinds, boys' and girls' clubs, fraternal organizations, and all others who are interested in a cleaner, better appearing state. "Your community is your job," has been adopted as the official slogan of the campaign and will be used in various ways to bring the campaign to the attention of all the people in all sections of the state. The Farm Bureau convention at the Hotel Utah, January 8, by formal resolution, -endorsed the Clean Home —Clean Town Campaign and appointed a permanent executive committee in charge of organization with county farm bureaus as the active units in all counties. The towns in the state have been grouped into seven classes, according to population, so that towns of approximately the same size will be competing against one another for having the most ideal living conditions and surroundings, in conformity with the rules and standards proposed by the State Executive Committee. Each county in the state will be asked to subscribe on a basis of three cents for each person, which amount will pay for all expenses in connection with the campaign. The campaign will open March 1, and will continue through March, April, May and June. The judging of the towns will be conducted during July and awards made about August 1. A resolution endorsing the campaign was prepared by the committees of public health of both houses of the State Legislature, and the resolution received a favorable vote in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. The resolution reads: "Whereas, the Utah Farm Bureau, at the request of Governor C. R. Mabey, and in cooperation with the public and private state, county and local agencies, has inaugurated a Statewide Clean Home—Clean Town Campaign in the interest of cleaner homes inside and out, cleaner towns and cleaner highways, the campaign to begin March 1 and continue for a period of four months: and, "Whereas the campaign is to go forward under the slogan, 'Your community is your job,' and is to include a comprehensive plan for general clean-up activities in every town and home im the state; "Be it Resolved by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the Fifteenth Legislature of the State of Utah; "That we do hereby endorse and approve the Statewide Clean Home—Clean Town Campaign, suggested by Hon. Charles R. Mabey, Governor of Utah, being conducted under the auspices of the Utah State Farm Bureau, and call upon all public officials and citizens of the State of Utah to assist and cooperate in this worthwhile campaign."