Some Firsts in Woman's Progress
The first high school for girls was opened in Boston in 1826, "amid a storm of opposition."
The first co-educational was Oberlin, O., College, admitting girls on the same terms as boys.
The first woman's organization, in the world was the Female Anti-Slavery Society, formed in 1833.
The first application by women for patents was in 1823, when several were recorded for small household conveniences.
The first American suffragist is said to have been Mrs. Margaret Brent, of Maryland, owner of an extensive estate, who asked for the ballot in colonial times.
The first great American statesman to declare in favor of political equality for women was Abraham Lincoln, in 1836.—Journal of Education, Boston.
The first address given by a woman before a legislature was that of Ernestine L. Rose, before the Michigan State Legislature, in 1836, asking "votes for women."
The first petition ever prepared by women was that of 1835, signed by 800 New York women, petitioning Congress for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.
The first woman physician was Dr. Harriet K. Hunt, who began practicing medicine in Boston in 1835, although not a graduate of a medical school, none then admitting women.
The first state in which women voted was New Jersey which, in 1807, disfranchised the enfranchised woman property holders.
The first state in the world to give married women the right to make a will was Connecticut.
The first appearance of women and children as factory workers was in 1809, when thirty-five were reported as thus employed.
The first institution in the United States offering higher education to woman was Troy Female Seminary, opened in 1821 by Emma Willard.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
 
Business Manager - - - - - JEANNETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager - - - - - Amy Brown LYMAN
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. X MARCH, 1923 No. 
Opinion concerning the Nineteenth century, and its specific contribution to the progress of the world, has been undergoing a process of reconstruction, particularly during the past decade of the Twentieth century. This is in no way unusual; it is hardly possible to estimate time and its contributions to life as we pass through it; we must see it in perspective. Whatever change of opinion historians and sociologists have undergone in relation to the past century, on one thing they are agreed, that the Nineteenth century marks the advent of women into a larger participation of the life of the world, and into work that has come through concerted effort, made possible through local, national and international organizations. This larger life has come to woman mainly through two channels, education and organization. The names of three women are prominent in the effort to bring to women educational opportunities—Emma Willard, Mary Lyon, and Mary Mortimer. Emma Willard began her work as early as 1821. Later, women caught a vision of better things, and organized into groups with specific aims in view. The Woman's Christian Temperance Union, and the American Woman's Suffrage Association set a pace and created a pattern that all later bodies of organized women have followed in details of organization, and in the spirit of courage and persistence that characterized these very worthy bodies. In 1868 the Sorosis Club of New York City was organized. This is one of the pioneer clubs of America. In March, 1889, when the club had reached its twenty-first anniversary, Mrs. Jennie C.
Croly, one of its leading spirits, suggested that delegates from all the women's clubs be called together to form a federation. An invitation was issued, which was responded to by sixty-one clubs. At this gathering the federation of women's clubs was born. Other organizations, such as the National Council of Women, usually thought of now because of its international scope, came into being during the Nineteenth century. In harmony with this great movement for the uplift and advancement of woman, and prior to the advent of the American Woman's Suffrage Association, the Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, on the 17th day of March, 1842, in the city of Nauvoo. The following report is an extract from The Times and Seasons of Friday, April 1, 1842:
"A society has lately been formed by the ladies of Nauvoo for the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan; and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes. The Society is known by the name of the Female Relief Society of the City of Nauvoo, and was organized on Thursday, the 17th of March, A. D. 1842.
"The Society is duly organized with a Presidentress or chairwoman, and two counselors chosen by herself; a treasurer and secretary. Mrs. Emma Smith takes the presidential chair. Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland are her counselors; Mrs. Elvira Cowles is treasuress, and our well known and talented poetess, Miss Eliza R. Snow, secretary."
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will commemorate its eighty-first anniversary in March, 1923. The Church was only twelve years of age when this organization was brought into being; Illinois was regarded as frontier country; John Tyler, the tenth president of the United States, was in the White House at Washington, and the country itself was just emerging from a period of great social stress and depression. The minutes of the first meeting place great emphasis on the fact that the organization has been effected for benevolent purposes. This thought born with the organization has always been kept in full view. Those who have directed the work have widened and deepened its scope so that the figures represented in the annual report of 1921, the last printed report, are of the greatest interest and indicate large growth. The membership has reached such proportions that the report shows an enrollment of 52,362 persons. During the year, 512,998 visits have been made to the homes throughout the Church by Relief Society representatives. These good women, known as teachers, have carried words of cheer, com- 
fort and good-will into the many homes that they have visited. They have sought out the greatest need, which in the majority of instances, is perhaps not food, or clothing, or succor in illness, but good wholesome advice, spiritual guidance, and the instilling of a belief in the triumph of all that is praiseworthy and good in life. Trained nurses, or other persons with natural aptitude in caring for the sick, have spent 54,907 days in ministering to those who needed special care because of bodily illness. In addition to the nursing, 137,955 special visits have been made to the sick. To the other items mentioned we would call attention to the fact that nearly $100,000 has been expended for charitable purposes. In brief manner we have indicated some of the phases of work covered in the welfare activities. Another phase of Relief Society work may be termed the department of education. This department has carried through the Magazine lessons in theology, social service, and literature to 52,362 persons during the year. In this field the Society is doing nothing less than university extension work, and that on a comparatively large scale. Classes have been conducted in practically every ward where the organization exists, not infrequently by college women or by women who are especially trained for teaching. To make even a cursory survey of Relief Society work is to convince one's self that the organization is unreservedly dedicated to the welfare of mankind. It is entirely democratic, as to membership, admitting to its rank all women, irrespective of religion, social position, color or race. All may share in its social and educational benefits; all may be beneficiaries of its inspired leadership. Mr. Will Irwin, the well known newspaper correspondent, is of the opinion that the Nineteenth century will go down to history as a period of transition, a period that breaks from the past and opens new vistas for the future. Surely no Latter-day Saint will quarrel with this contention, for the Nineteenth century brought the restoration of the Gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and through him came the Relief Society; the one restored the true gospel, lost through the ages; the other turned the key to woman, giving to her, to use a scriptural phrase, "Life, and that more abundantly."
Just as the Magazine leaves for the press, the announcement is made of the appointment of Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general president of the Relief Society, as editor, and Professor Alice Louise Reynolds, of the Brigham Young University, as associate editor of the .