Guide Lessons for May
Theology and Testimony (First Week in May).
The Meaning of Counsel. Webster gives a number of definitions to the word counsel. For a theological meaning he refers us to Matthew 19:21. In this lesson counsel shall mean ecclesiastical, authoritative advice including parental advice.
The Nature of Counsel. All counsel carries with it responsibility. The one who gives it becomes responsible for results, if it is obeyed; and the one receiving it becomes responsible for results, when it is not obeyed. Counsel is indicative of love and confidence. When counsel is given without an expectation of its being heeded, it takes the nature of a warning, and when it is received with a determination to follow it—the advice is at once reacted to by gratitude and the one to whom it is given accepts it as a gracious gift.
Counsel is full of free-agency.
Three Degrees of Obedience. There are persons who so love and trust their leaders that a suggestion is all that is needed to get joyous acquiescence to what is desired by recognized authority. Lovers never wait for orders from each other; they are on the alert to find out what each other's wishes are. There are those who are loath to obey anything less dictatorial than a command. Counsel has too much liberty in it for them. They serve better under a "Thou shalt," than they do under an "It is my will." There is a third class who obey. They respond not to counsel, they procrastinate with commands but they heed warnings that bristle with penalties. In the first group, love leads with confidence at its side. In the second group, respect leads followed by fear. In the third 
group, fear comes to the front. One can scarcely conceive of commands being given between husband and wife. The sage who wrote, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom," might have added, "but the love of the Lord is wisdom complete."
The Word of Wisdom as Counsel. When this revelation was first given it was presented as the mind and will of the Lord, not a command with penalties for disobedience, but a statement of truths with promises of blessings to come through its application in living. The Saints were counseled to keep the Word of Wisdom and many heeded the counsel. Then came a time when the Word of Wisdom was officially presented as a command with a curtailment of privileges as a penalty for its disregard. Today we have the constant warning of religion and science against a disregard of this revelation, and no doubt some there are, now breaking the Word of Wisdom, who would cease its violation if they were brought face to face with the alternative of giving up their standing in the Church or giving up their indulgence. The fear of punishment moves most strongly with some intelligences, while the hope of reward is most powerful with others.
Heeding counsel is a habit of those who "Seek the truth and find it, too, And in the search are glad; Are much more moved by love of good, Than by the fear of bad."
Public Counsel. The leaders in the Church responsible to the Lord for their leadership are constantly alert to the needs of the people and the conditions of the Church. They carry responsibilities incomprehensible to the laity. They have authority and inspiration from the Lord, the general approval of the people, and the support of those who heed their counsels. And these supporters are they who are proving to the Lord that they are not "slothful servants," but are possessed of a loyalty that entitles them to class ""A" consideration. The history of the Church is replete with evidence that the path of counsel-heeding has been one of safety for individuals and groups, and there is no lack of proof that disregard of counsel has been a highway to disaster. Private Counsel. One should not ask for counsel unless the asking is accompanied by a willingness and an expectation to heed the counsel. The young man who sought the advice of the Savior was worse off ee GUIDE LESSONS 151 after the counsel was given than he was before. There is a difference, however, between seeking counsel and asking for an opinion, One may get the opinion of several persons on a matter and not act on the suggestion of any of them. The giving of an opinion is widely different from the giving of official counsel. The latter is entitled to reverential consideration. The right of the priesthood to give private counsel is as unquestioned as is the right of the parent to give counsel to a son or a daughter. The bishop is father of the ward as well as the common judge, and similar relations exist between the stake officers and those over whom they preside in the Priesthood. It is a serious thing to disregard private, official counsel. The Lord recognizes the counsel given by those sustained in official positions, and he will see to it that no one shall lose by heeding official counsel in his Church. It should go without saying that all private counsel given, sought, or heeded, should be in harmony with public counsel. To seek advice that would conflict with the admonitions of the authorities indicates that one is inclined to Church anarchy but is lacking the courage to strike the attitude alone. To give counsel conflicting with the general policy of an institution is akin to conspiracy against the institution. The heeding of private counsel that conflicts with public counsel pits one against the institution and one or the other must go down to defeat. Institutional Heeding of Counsel. Whenever emphasis is placed on a matter by the counsel of the general authorities that emphasis will be taken up by the organizations in the Church. If the emphasis is on attendance at sacrament meetings it will be made emphatic in the Priesthood quorums, and in the auxiliary organizations, the Church schools, and the seminaries, and 'the homes. Just now the call is for attention to Priesthood activities and this counsel will not go unheeded by the Relief Societies, for these organizations are "helps in government" as well as institutions to aid individuals. Every home will carry over the emphasis and the mother part of that "carry over" will be no second part. The counsel against going to California was in early days unheeded by some people to their sorrow. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Read or quote the scripture upon which the theological definition of counsel is based. 2. To what extent is the giver of counsel responsible? 152 3. Under what conditions does counsel take the nature of a "warning? 4. Discuss the three degrees of obedience and state what might have been profitably added to the first part of Psalm, 111:10, 6. Discuss the proposition ""Heeding counsel is essential to fitness for celestial glory." 7. Why has the Word of Wisdom passed from an expression of the will of the Lord with promises of reward for heeding it, to a command with penalties for disregarding it? 8. On what grounds may we expect that the breaking of the Word of Wisdom will yet become a bar to Church membership? 9. Why is heeding their counsel the best support that can be given to the authorities? 10. Illustrate by story that heeding public counsel is the path of safety. 11. -Bear testimony of the benefits coming to you through heeding counsel. 12. Distinguish between asking for an opinion and seeking counsel. 13. Show the folly of seeking for, heeding, or giving private counsel that conflicts with public counsel. 14. How may institutions help in the heeding of counsel? 15. Discuss heeding counsel as one of heaven's highest laws. LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May) LESSON IN Literature (Third Week in May) "THe SKETCH Book" What Irving did for Spain, in his priceless gift of The Alhambra (observed in last lesson), he had already done for his own and the mother country in The Sketch Book. The rich legends of the Moors, enhanced by Irving's imagination and preserved in his spicy style in the Alhambra, was merely a parallel to the sketches that had earlier captured the spirit and legends of the GUIDE LESSONS 153 Dutch on the Hudson or mirrored English life and habits. These papers, over thirty in all, were published in America in 1819-20, in seven installments—all under the title of The Sketch Book. This work bears the great distinction of being the first to bring from England any recognition of America in literature. "Who reads an American book?" was the stinging challenge that went unanswered until Irving broke the crust of prejudice and literary taste. Think of it! Only a hundred years ago did our country produce what was recognized as her legitimate literary offspring. At a time when America and Americans were the ridicule of all English travelers and writers only a sky-rocket could have appeared above her horizon. Concerning this prejudice Irving indulges in bolder irony than is his custom: "A great man of Europe, thought I, must be as superior to a great man of America, as the peak of the Alps to the highland of the Hudson—I will visit this land of wonder, thought I, and see the gigantic race from which I am degenerated." From England, Irving had to send his sketches to America to be published. Immediately they were heralded as classics by Scott, Goldsmith, and other celebrities—the former interceding successfully for their publication in. England. Now what was the great contribution which this new work has made to the field of literature? Half of the papers were essays on English life, institutions, and customs, as seen through the eyes of an American. Though Irving was not a philosopher he was a keen, sympathetic observer. In the purest and most beautiful diction he transfers to his readers the fascination that he feels for beauty in scene or tradition or character or custom. Irving was certainly genuine in his admiration of much of the Old World's splendor and custom, though his American tastes and satire, often biting chipped away much of the glamor and decay of the English intitutions. The keen thrusts in John Bull, Little Britain and other essays, though covertly hidden under a condoning smile, or offset by praise, shows clearly to one who knows his English his'ory that while Irving enjoyed his old friend John Bull he saw in him the mistakes of the English Parliament and Empire and wished him different. But essays—political, social, literary, descriptive, satire, narrative—all kinds, had just been perfected even in this very field by Addison, Steele, and Swift. Irving merely added to the list of excellent literary essays. To be sure, he contributed a distinct America color, and his own beautiful diction, clear and graceful and elegant, with his narrative genius made The Sketch Book most interesting reading in this fertile period. But not for his essays is Irving most read or most honored. His unique distinction is that he gave to the world the first near 154 approach to the modern short story; second, that he is the first to make America a background for romance and legend using native characters and customs.; Until this time there had been only the long story—novel, in usually two to six volumes, or merely the tale or the narrative in verse. But when The Sketch Book brought out Rip Van Winkle, a new form of literature was revealed. A form distinctly American is the short story, not only in its inception but in its development and perfection. The one form of literature in which America excels, launched by Irving, found its greatest masters in our own Hawthorne and Poe (though France made a noble contribution) and is still the form in which numerous writers here are winning their literary laurels. Whether these stories of Irving's can be classified as the short story, as that word is used today, is a matter of dispute. Nearly every author of texts on American literature speaks of them as short stories; yet every author on the technique of the short story so limits its definition as to make it a too highly specialized form to include Irving's narratives. The popular use of the word short story may mean any narrative that is more than an anecdote or less than a novel in length. But that form of literature now known as the short story is a dramatic narrative that reveals one idea or motion. That is, a unit of action artistically narrated that gives a single impression. Judged by such a standard, nothing of Irvings could be called the short story. Yet Rip Van Winkle was decidedly the nearest approach to it. Surely it has dramatic qualities and is an interesting narrative, but certainly it does not give one single impression. Another requirement, of the modern ideal, is that a climatic series of events portray character in a struggle. But wherein does Rip make a struggle, or even attempt to shape events? He does not resolve to bring anything about; he merely wanders aimlessly away and things happen without one plan or intention of his, merely in the style of an adventure. Though Irving's stories were not cast in the mold of the present ideal short story, they are at least its worthy progenitors, and are still among our richest narrative treasures. Who does not find Rip Van Winkle an interesting story? Who has not laughed at its full ind quiet humor? Who has not been swayed by its graceful elegance and satire? A good story well told, conveying a truth or truths about life—so far it is worthy. The Legend of Sleep Hollow, though a wealth of native color and atmosphere, splashes out into a long drawn sketch only as does The Spectre Bridegroom. Even the ghost stories in them are poorly told. In The Wife, The Broken Heart, The Pride of the Village, The Widow and Her Son, sentiment runs so much to sentimentality that it cloys the taste of the present generation. "a GUIDE LESSONS 155 But the Legend of Sleepy Hollow and Rip Van Winkle perform the great feat and the great service of first portraying native American character, scenes and traditions. Vivid and true are the descriptions of the scenes and early life on the Hudson. Rip and Ichabod, caricatures though they be, are more real to every boy and girl above the fourth and fifth grade than Hendrik Hudson or Peter Stuyvesant. What marvelous pictures of simple country life are found in Ichabod's school, the itinerant school master, the Van Tassel's house party, the Brom Bones' type of rustic courtship!, Something distinctly American at last! Americans in romance! An artistic, imaginative creation from American life, and that cast in a new literary mold with a flavor of its genial author, —such was the legacy of Irving that made him the idol he was. SUGGESTIONS FOR STUDY 1. For reading, the essays are well represented by Westminster Abbey and Straiford-on-Avon, and the narratives most popular are Rip Van Winkle and Legend of Sleepy Hollow. Note in all of these the diction— culling words and phrases well chosen for vividness and description, in scene, character, or action, or for revealing atmosphere. 2. Marking the passages of humor, as you read, is an interesting exercise. Note in the essays, particularlyJohn Bull, Little Britain, The Country Church, or Rural Life, both the sympathetic appreciation and also the satiric criticism Irving feels for British life and law. 3. Can you select passages from Irving that are wordy but answer the earlier demand for elegance? 4. Select the words and phrases that reveal the wonderful picture of domestic life as portrayed in the "Van Tassel" home. 5. Wherein do you find traces of Irving's biography in his writings? Observe particularly 'the English essays. 6. What is your impression of Irving's character, as you see and feel his personality in his works? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in May) MARRIAGE AS A RELIGIOUS AND MORAL OBLIGATION Marriage is a commandment of God. It is of all human relations the most sacred. Upon it is based the greatest blessings of earth and heaven. The Lord in modern revelation says: 156 "Wherefore, it is lawful that he should have one wife, and they twain shall be one flesh, and all that the earth might answer the end of its creation: and that it might be filled with the measure of man, according to his creation before the world was made. Doctrine & Covenants, Sec. 49:16-17. In another revelation we are told of the eternal blessings which follow under the covenant. "And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise, by him who is anointed, unto whom I have appointed this power, and keys of this Priesthood; and it shall be said unto them, Ye shall come forth in the first resurrection; and if it be after the first resurrection, in the next resurrection; and shall inherit thrones, kingdoms, principalities, and powers, dominions, all heights and depths—then shall it be written in the Lamb's Book of Life, * * * they shall pass by the angels, and the Gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever." It is thus very clear that the marriage union is one of the most essential conditions of the eternal reward which the gospel promises the faithful. This is true not only from the standpoint of the individual's own salvation but from the standpoint of the human race, being the condition through which the earth might "answer the end of its creation." Why Marriage is Sacred Marriage becomes sacred first, because God has made it so, but our experiences have also taught us to regard it as sacred. In fact, we are becoming constantly aware of the close agreement between what God has commanded, as essential to eternal life, and the things which experience teaches, as essential to human welfare. For example, it is a common belief among students of history that the rapid decline of Rome was due in large part to a disregard by high officials of the fundamental law of marriage relationship. Ellwood calls our attention to the cause of the decline of ancient Rome, and thinks he sees a resemblance between disturbing conditions which existed at that time and the present. He says: "The very forces which undermined Roman civilization, viz., commercialism, individualism, materialistic standards of life, militarism, a low estimate of marriage and the family, agnosticism in religion and ethics, seem to be the things which are now prominent, if not dominant, in Western civilization." GUIDE LESSONS 157 The Physically and Mentally Strong Should Marry In our generation a most perplexing problem connected with family life is the tendency on the part of those who have the physical and mental power to succeed in the world, both educationally and financially, to postpone marriage until late in life, or else not to marry at all, thus depriving the human rece of a proper proportion of children from those of greater native endowments. The low marriage rate among graduates of the higher institutions of learning is common knowledge. The average man or woman of health, physically and mentally, can serve humanity better through the family than through any other institution. The whole civilization suffers when these people, blessed with natural ability, neglect this fundamental to God and the race. It is the family and the home where human character and moral possibilities are best developed. And it is in this enterprise where we need the services and the devotion of the highest human quality. It is indeed unfortunate when mere comfort, or social position, or the desire to travel, or professional or political ambitions, stand in the way and take the place of the desire to establish a home and rear a family. | The Postponement of Marriage There are many, reasons which may justify the postponement of marriage. Questions of health, of education, and grave financial conditions, may sometimes be considered as proper excuses for postponing marriage. Those who marry in haste repent at leisure. But there are also very good reasons why marriage should not be postponed beyond that age in the life of man and woman when it is difficult to make adjustments and readjustments, for marriage always requires this. People who are past forty years of age have pretty well established habits and standards of life. They are disinclined to make any thorough reconstruction in their ways of living and in their notions of right and wrong. The questions of where they are to live, what their politics shall be, what part they shall take in religious matters, should be settled and settled right in the early matured years of manhood and womanhood, and this can be done satisfactorily only by mutual agreement of husband and wife. If these matters are not settled in this way, they will remain forever conditions of friction. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Show from the revelations of God that marriage is a sacred obligation. Pa 2. What blessings are promised to those who marry by the "new and everlasting covenant," and who live in accordance with that law? 'Show that the disregard of the marriage relation tends to undermine civilization. What does Ellwood say concerning the decline of Rome? Why should the physically and men'ally strong be encouraged to marry and rear children? What is the teachings of our Church concerning the bearing and the rearing of children? What are some of the advantages in postponing marriage? What are the dangers if marriage is postponed until the habits of life are fixed? What classes of people generally postpone marriage? What methods should parents employ in teaching their children the sacredness of marriage? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY Mothers' Day I. Miss Ann Jarvis of Philadelphia met a long felt need when she succeeded in getting a day set apart as a national Mothers' Day. Greatest of all human responsibility is that of motherhood. It has been said, "Show me the mother and I'll answer for the child." Old Hebrew tradition of the importance and sanctity of motherhood. A. Abraham might be the father of many nations but the covenant people could come only through Isaac, son of Sarah, B. The Fifth Commandment. (Exodus 20:12.) IV. Christ manifested great love for his mother. Two of the few recorded utterances when on the cross had reference to his mother. (John 19:26, 27.) SPECIAL OFFER 25c Complete Material For The Making of A Lady’s Linen Handkerchief Including one square of fine colored linen, thread, design, hot-iron transfer, directions, needle and patch. Choice of color and design (either flowers or patches). Write at once and get your order in'as no department store could make such a remarkable offer HELENE NOVELTY SHOP P. O. Box 585 Salt Lake City, Utah Make a handkerchief as an Easter Gift— To Our Patrons and Friends To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender. Sample: (Address) _ , Room 20, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. — The would like to secure the following magazines, for which we will pay twenty cents per copy. Before sending copies, please write the Magazine, stating how many of each you have on hand. Do not send any until you notify us as to how many you can supply: Jan. 1914, Vol. 1,