Guide Lessons LESSON I. Genealogy and Testimony (Required.) First Week in April. SALVATION FOR THE DEAD, A VICARIOUS WORK. TEXT: "History of the Testament. Church," Vol. VI;  Obadiah, Old AIM: "Only through the symbolic labors of the living may the dead enter into the Church through the doors of Subsequent. "to receiving his first revelation on the principle of salvation for the dead, the Prophet Joseph Smith revealed the vital fact to the people that the hope of the dead lay in the labors of the living, no matter how earnestly the spirits in prison might desire baptism and the ordinances pertaining to the priesthood. It would be impossible for them to obtain those keys and blessings except through the vicarious labor of living descendants or friends. All religious forms are symbolic in their character, so are all civil forms. The shaking of hands, the taking of an oath of office, the execution of any deed of trust or any civic process, all are conducted in symbols. The very words in which this is written are put in groups or symbols (or letters of a symbolic alphabet) which express the thought of the writer to be grasped by the reader who glances over these symbols. So, too, are all forms of religion presented to our minds in the shape of symbols. Marriage, baptism, confirmation, the Lord's Supper, and all the ordinances of the temple, are symbolic from first to last. Like the Savior's parables, they convey to the mind, through their symbols, a thought which may not be expressed except through symbols. Symbols belong to this earth, for we see as through a glass darkened, until we come to see as we are seen and know as we are known. In the Celestial Kingdom it may be that • no symbols will be necessary, but they are sometimes on this earth and in the intermediate state which is called Paradise and where the waiting spirits are in "prison." They are prevented from advancing and developing for lack of the keys and powers which would permit them to advance. These spirits which have once tabernacled in the flesh must needs receive the symbols which pertain to the gospel plan upon the earth on which they once lived. Realizing this, the Prophet Joseph Smith put into active operation the principle of baptism for the dead. That his mind dwelt heavily on this principle and the mission of Elijah is evidenced by the following extracts from the "History of the Church," Vol VI, page 251: "Now for Elijah. The spirit, power, and the calling of Elijah is, that ye have power to hold the keys of the revelation, ordinances, oracles, powers and endowments of the fulness of the Melchizedek Priesthood and of the kingdom of God upon the earth: and to receive, obtain, and perform all the ordinances belonging to the kingdom of God. even unto the turning of the hearts of the fathers unto the children, and the hearts of the children unto the fathers, even those who are in heaven. "Malachi says. T will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: and he shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.' "Now. what I am after is the knowledge of God. and I take my own course to obtain it. What are we to understand by this in the last days? "In the days of Noah. God destroyed the world by a flood, and he has promised to destroy it by fire in the last days: but before it should take place, Elijah should first come and turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, etc. "Now comes the point. What is this office and work of Elijah? It is one of the greatest and most important subjects that God has revealed. He should send Elijah to seal the children to the fathers, and the fathers to the children. "Now. was this merely confined to the living, to settle difficulties with families on earth? By no means. It was a far greater work. Elijah! what would you do if you were here? Would you confine your work to the living alone? No;  I would refer you to the Scriptures, where the subject is manifest: that is, without us. they could not be made perfect, nor we without them;  the fathers without the children, nor the children without the fathers. "I wish you to understand this subject, for it is important; and if you will receive it, this is the spirit of Elijah, that we redeem our dead, and connect ourselves with our fathers which are in heaven, and seal up our dead to come forth in the first resurrection;  and here we want the power of Elijah to seal those who dwell on the earth to those who dwell in 
 heaven. This is the power of Elijah and the keys of the kingdom of Jehovah. dwells “Let in heavenus suppose should a reveal case. himself Suppose to the great Cutler Father God here, who by the opening of the heavens, and tell him, *I offer up a decree that whatsoever you seal on earth with your decree, I will seal it in heaven.' You have the power then;  can it be taken off? No. Then what you seal on earth, by the keys of Elijah, is sealed in heaven;  and this is the power of Elijah, and this is the difference between the spirit and power of Elias and Elijah;  for while the spirit of Elias is a forerunner, the power of Elijah is sufficient to make our calling and election sure;  and the same doctrine, where we are exhorted to go on to perfection, not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of laying on of hands, resurrection of the dead, etc. "We cannot be perfect without the fathers, etc. We must have revelation from them, and we can see that the doctrine of revelation far transcends the doctrine of no revelation;  for one truth revealed from heaven is worth all the sectarian notions in existence." "Again: The doctrine or sealing power of Elijah is as follows: If you have power to seal on earth and in heaven, then we should be wise. The first thing you do, go and seal on earth your sons and daughters unto yourself, and yourself unto your fathers in eternal glory. * * * will walk through the gate of heaven and claim what I seal, and those that follow me and my counsel." The Patriarch Hyrum Smith delivered the following significant address on this subject, on the 8th of April, 1844: " I never knew a proclamation to be understood at once. President Brigham Young wished to draw the attention of the brethren, first, to build the temple and get your washings and anointings, and endowments;  after that, to build up branches through the nations. We must do all we can to build up the temple, and after that to build churches. The gathering will continue here until the temple is so far finished that the elders can get their endowments;  and after that the gathering will be from the nations to North and South America, the symbols of the wings. The gathering from the old countries will always be to headquarters, and I have no doubt this conference will do a great deal of good." Again the prophet gave even more light upon the subject, on May 9, 1844: "My text is on the resurrection of the dead, which you will find in the 14th chapter of John — 'In my Father's house are many mansions.' It should be, 'In my Father's kingdom are many kingdoms,' in order that ye may be heirs of God and joint heirs with me. I do not behave the Methodist doctrine of sending honest men and noble minded men to hell, along with the murderer and the adulterer. They may hurl all their hell and fiery billows upon me, for they will roll off me as fast as they come on. But I have an order of things to save the poor fellows at any rate, and get them saved;  for I will send men to preach to them in prison and save them if I can. "There are other and there mansions for for mansions those who those obey come a celestial short of law, the law, every man in his own order. There is baptism, etc., for those to exercise who are alive and baptism for the dead who die without the knowledge of the gospel. "I am going on in my progress for eternal life. It is not only necessary that you should be baptized for your dead, but you will have to go through all the ordinances for them, the same as you have gone through to save yourselves. There will be 144,000 saviors on Mount Zion, and with them an innumerable host that no man can number. Oh, I beseech you to go forward, go forward and make your calling and your election sure;  and if any man preach any other gospel than that which I have preached, he shall be cursed;  and some of you who now hear me shall see it, and know that I testify the truth concerning them. In regard to the law of the Priesthood there should be a place where all nations shall come up from time to time to receive their endowments, and the Lord has said this shall be the place for baptisms for the dead. Every man that has been baptized and belongs to the kingdom has a right to be baptized for those who have gone before;  and as soon as the law of the gospel is obeyed here by their friends who act as proxy for the dead, the Lord has administrators there to set them free. A man may act as proxy for his own relatives;  the ordinances of the gospel which were laid out before the foundations of the world have thus been fulfilled by them, and we may be baptized for those whom we have much friendship for;  but it must first be revealed to the man of God, lest we should run too far. 'As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive' ;  all shall be raised from the dead. The Lamb of God hath brought to pass the resurrection, so that all shall rise from the dead. "God Almighty, himself, dwells in eternal fire;  flesh and blood cannot go there, for all corruption is devoured by the fire. 'Our God is a consuming fire.' When our flesh is quickened by the Spirit, there will be no blood in this tabernacle. Some dwell in higher glory than others." This principle occupied the last closing thoughts of the 
 Prophet, as is shown by these extracts, for the last discourse quoted occurred only a month before his own martyrdom. QUESTIONS. 1. What do you understand by vicarious work? 2. Who was the great exemplar of vicarious salvation? 3. 21.) What was the prophecy of Obadiah? (Obadiah, verse 4. Describe the nature of symbols. 5. What are letters of the alphabet? 6. Who arranged our present alphabet? 7. What symbols can you suggest as pertaining to daily life? (b) What to civil life? 8. How do symbols enter into a marriage ceremony? 9. What is the form of baptism and how is it symbolic? 10. Why must a living person perform the symbolic ordinances for a dead person? 11. What do you know of the claim of the Reaganites condition for cerning the Prophet's dead? attitude on temple work and Salvant: The practical work for our genealogical class this month is the study and practice of genealogical correspondence. We suggest that each member write at least one genealogical letter during the month, and that the class practice on a model letter to secure required genealogical information of the Society. LESSON II. Work and Business (Required) Second Week in April. LESSON . Book of Mormon Third Week in April. BIBLE TESTIMONY. (Optional) SUBJECT: Isaiah's prophecy and the Book of Mormon. TEXT: Isaiah 29:1-15;   Nephi 8:5-23;  Helaman 14:20-27. AIM OR CENTRAL TRUTH: God makes known to the children of men, through his prophets, the history of the future. This lesson and others to follow will deal with prophetic writings contained in the Bible, relating to the bringing to light of the history of the people who came to this continent, the time of its coming forth, and the important part which that record is to play in bringing about the purpose of the Almighty. In this connection, we will introduce the prophecy of Isaiah contained in the 29th chapter, an analysis of which will furnish the frame work of this lesson, as well as the one to follow: I— Isaiah's Prophecy. 1— Represents the march of the ages. A — Notwithstanding Christ, the Great Sacrifice, has been offered up, Isaiah sees the Jews still offering sacrifices. B — Foreshadows Jerusalem and that which is akin to it, brought down, so they shall speak out of the dust. C — Foreshadows a great cataclysm. D — Foreshadows the Dark Ages. a — "Multitude of all nations" seeking, yet not finding the truth. b — Religious conditions. c — Heavens closed against the children of men — "The seers hath we covered." E — Foreshadows the restoration. a — The awakening from the "deep sleep." b — Sees a book coming forth. (1) — Words of which are delivered to the learned. (2) — The book itself delivered to the unlearned. (3) — When lip-service rather than heart-service abounds, because of which, God will proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder. (4) — When the wisdom of God would be exalted above the wisdom of man. There can be no question that the scene upon which the prophet is gazing when he introduces the prophecy with the words, "Woe to Ariel, to Ariel," etc., is suddenly changed to another place that shall be unto the Lord as Ariel, and that the subsequent utterances in the prophecy have to do with this place and not with Jerusalem. As a further proof that the prophet had his eye fixed upon another place rather than Jerusalem when he gave utterance to the facts contained in verse six (6), we might cite the fact that no cataclysm as he describes has yet been visited upon the eastern hemisphere, while the Book of Mormon is emphatic in its description of just such a catastrophe, graphically told in  Nephi 8:5-23;  and Helaman 14:20-27. 
 Regarding that portion of the prophecy contained between the verses seven (7) and eleven (11), may not Isaiah have seen the religious unrest and uncertainty — awful condition, which attached themselves to the hearts of the children of men;  conditions which caused them to wander from belief to belief, from creed to creed, answering every "Lo! here is Christ," and "Lo! Christ is there," etc., etc., hungering and thirsting for the word of the Lord, only dreaming that their thirst and hunger were satisfied. Groping in their darkness with as much certainty and stability as a drunken man? No wonder the prophet cried out, "Stay yourselves, and wonder;  cry ye out. and cry;  they are drunken, but not with strong drink. For the Lord hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep, and hath closed your eyes;  the prophets and your rulers, the seers hath he covered!" The students will do well to make personal research along the lines pointed out by the following questions: L Why do you suppose, did the Jews continue to offer sacrifices after the Great Sacrifice, Christ, had been offered up? 2. What contribution can you make supporting the contention that Isaiah was looking beyond Jerusalem and beyond the time of the Christian Era to another place that would be to the Lord as Ariel, when he uttered his prophecy? 3. Contrast the Bible account with that of the Book of Mormon concerning the disturbances that should take place in the earth at the time of the Savior's death? 4. What were the characteristics of religious practices during the Dark Ages? 5. What were some of the characteristics of religious practice at the time of the Restoration? 6. According to Isaiah, what was a specific reason for man's doubt and uncertainty regarding religious matters? 7. What specific condition named in the prophecy led the;  prophet to state that God would proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder? 8. Give in detail the circumstances attending the visit or Martin Harris to Professor Anthony? Literature (Optional.) TENNYSON AS A POET LAUREATE. England has had twenty poets laureate;  of that number seven have been great. The great ones were Chaucer, Spen ser, Johnson, Dryden, Wordsworth, and Tennyson. Of this latter group, Tennyson, according to some critics, was greatest, making him the greatest of all England's laureates. He possessed the qualities that go to make a great laureate; intense patriotism, admiration for everything English, power of stirring emotions, a simple way of treating great events and great people. The origin of the poet luareate is buried in obscurity, yet it is known as early as 1220 such a versifier was attached to the court. The written directions call for a poem from the laureate on the king's birthday, New Year's Day, and on any great event;  only the last requirement has been adhered to. Tennyson gained his greatest distinction as poet laureate. Undoubtedly Kipling would have been his best successor but Kipling had offended Queen Victoria by his lines in which he called her the "widow of Windsor," and indulged in uncomplimentary remarks about the government policy. One of the noblest dedications in all literature is the dedication to the "Idylls of the King." The poem is dedicated to Albert, Prince Consort, Queen Victoria's husband, whom Tennyson describes as one "Wearing the white flower of a blameless life, Before a thousand peering littlenesses, In that fierce light which beats upon a throne, A Prince indeed. Beyond all titles, and a house loved name. Hereafter through all times, Albert the Good." But what will most attract women are the truly wonderful lines to the queen, in her widowhood: "His love, unseen but felt, overshadow thee, The love of all thy sons encompass thee. The love of all thy daughters cherish thee, The love of all thy people comfort thee, Till God's love set thee at his side again." The welcome to Alexandra, the Danish Princess, who was afterwards Edward queen, shows how happy and apt Tennyson was: "Sea-King's daughter from over the sea, Alexandra! But all of us Danes in our welcome of thee, Alexandra! Welcome her all things youthful and sweet, Scatter the blossoms under her feet! Break, happy land, into earlier flowers, Make music, O bird, in the new bowers." The story of "The Charge of the Light Brigade" is familiar to many. During the Crimean war a most unfortunate charge was given, which finally resulted in the death of about six hundred soldiers. Tennyson read the telegraphic 
 dispatch, relating to the charge, made his first draught of the poem, on the instant, and it was telegraphed to Russia. Many of the soldiers died with that poem in their hands. One of the greatest odes in any language, assuredly one of the greatest odes in the English language, is the "Ode on the Death of the Duke of Wellington." In it we have the picture of a most elaborate funeral cortege moving towards St. Paul's Cathedral, where the Duke will be buried. Note the description of the funeral, "pageant sad, and slow as fits an universal woe," and later: "England, for thy son Let the bell be tolled;  Render thanks to the Giver, And render him to the world Under the cross of Gold." Perhaps the most unique lines in this truly wonderful Ode, are the lines that represent Lord Nelson, the great naval hero of Great Britain. Waking from his sleep of death for an instant and asking, "Who is he that cometh like an honored guest With banner and with music. With soldier and with priest. With a nation weeping and breaking on my rest?" "Mighty seaman, this is he, As great by land as thou by sea, His foes were thine;  he kept us free: O, give him welcome, this is he, Worthy of our gorgeous rites, And worthy to be laid by thee." The lines that touched a universal cord are the closing lines of the Ode. These were found to be appropriate lines in England to be read over Tennyson's own bier: "On God and Godlike men we build our trust, Hush, the Dead March wails in the people's ears;  The dark crowd moves, and there are sobs and tears;  The black earth yawns;  the mortal disappears: Ashes to ashes, dust to dust;  He is gone who seemed so great, — Gone, but nothing can bereave him Of the force he made his own Being here, and we believe him Something far advanced in state, And that he wears a truer crown Than any that man can weave him. Speak no more of his renown, Lay your earthly fancies down, And in the vast cathedral leave him, God accept him, Christ receive him!" QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. In the dedication of the '"Idylls of the King," find the expression "Father of her kings to be," and explain it. 2. Read some lines from the dedication that show that Tennyson believed that the Prince Consort lived in the immortal world, and that he would there be thinking of his wife. 3. In what war was the wrong charge given that cost the lives of six hundred men? In what country did these men die? 4. If the poet laureate is expected to write poems that are intense with the national feeling, during any great period of time, or on the achievement of any great event, how do you account for nothing coming from the pen of the present laureate, Robert Bridges? 5. Of what battle is the Duke of Wellington the English hero? 6. What mighty war lord was overcome at that time? 7. Why are these lines appropriate to apply to the Duke of Wellington? "The great world-victor's victor will be seen no more." 8. Do you think it a great compliment to a man to say that he is "Rich in saving common sense"? Find these lines in the Ode on the Duke of Wellington. Read the lines to the class that were read at Alfred Tennyson's funeral service. Read the entire poem at home if possible. 10. Read the Welcome to Alexandra and tell why the poet said, "But all of us Danes in our welcome of thee, Alexandra." LESSON IV. (Required) Social Service Fourth Week in April. FEEDING THE SCHOOL CHILD I. Necessary Food Constituents. So far in this course it has not seemed necessary to discuss food as such, because we have made milk — often called the perfect food — the foundation of the diet. Since milk is a 
 complete food, a review of its composition will suggest the following as the food constituents essential to maintain life and produce growth: A — Water, for making blood and other body liquids;  b — fat and sugar to produce heat for maintaining the body temperatures, and for transformation into energy for such internal work as the beating of the heart, the process of breathing and blood purification, digestive and assimilative processes, and for purposes of external activities, such as kicking, crying, laughing, moving about, etc. ;  c — proteins, to produce growth and to repair tissues, broken down or worn away by the processes of life;  proteins also may be used as fuel by the body in much the same way that fats and sugars are;  d — mineral salts, to regulate the concentration of body liquids, to regulate the heart beats and other body processes, and to help build body tissues. Milk is particularly rich in calcium which enters largely into the construction of bones and teeth. The fat of milk contains a somewhat recently discovered essential to normal growth designated as "Fat soluble B; " this is the reason why food experts urged parents during the war to supply children's diets with true butter whenever possible. Sources of Necessary Food Constituents. While milk forms a complete diet for an infant, it will be readily seen that as the child's body grows and becomes more active, food higher in solids (milk is only 12 to 13 per cent solids) will be necessary, and it now becomes essential to draw from a large variety of foods in order to retain in the diet the various food constituents found in milk. A — Water will be supplied directly by the water we drink, and indirectly by the foods we eat, as nearly all foods contain more or less water;  b — fats will be supplied by butter, cheese, egg yolks, fat meat, nuts, and oils of various kinds;  c — sugars, and starches, closely allied in structure and function, are members of a group of chemically related substances called carbohydrates and will be referred to hereafter simply as carbohydrates. In addition to the cane or beet sugar which we serve on our tables, we get other forms of sugars in fruits and in many of the vegetables. The starches we find in grains, in potatoes, tapioca, sego, etc.. D — Familiar examples are: (1) the casein of milk, that white substance which coagulates when milk "sours," and imparts to milk its white colors;  (2) myosin, the substance of which lean meat fiber is made up;  (3) albumen, familiar to everyone in egg white, which is almost pure form of albumen. Most nuts have a high protein content, as do dried beans of all varieties, and lentils;  e — the most familiar mineral, salt is the sodium chloride or "common salt" which we serve on our tables;  other necessary ones such as compounds of iron, calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sulfur, magnesium, chlorine occur in fruits, vegetables, and grains. Summary. The Composition of milk — nature's perfect food for the infant, — suggests the following necessary food constituents for older individuals: a — Water to supply body liquids. b — Fats, found in butter, oils, egg yolks, cheese, nuts, etc. ;  and carbohydrates, found in fruits, vegetables, grains, potatoes, to supply heat and energy for both internal and external work. c — Proteins, found in milk, eggs, lean meat, nuts, beans, to supply building material. d — Mineral salts, found in fruit, vegetables, grains, to regulate body liquids and processes, also to help build certain tissues. Measuring Food Value. As shown by the foregoing discussion the function of food is three-fold;  namely, to yield heat and energy to do work;  to build body tissues;  and to regulate body processes. Since fats, carbohydrates and proteins have the common function of supplying energy to the body, the most conspicuous function of food, and since the body has power to transform heat into energy and vice-versa, it has been found convenient to measure the value of a food by the amount of heat its burning will produce. This is termed the energy or fuel, value of food, and is measured by a heat unit called the calorie. The calorie is defined as the amount of heat required to raise one kilogram (2.2 pounds) of water through one degree centigrade, or approximately the amount required to raise one pound of water through four degrees Fahrenheit. By burning various food materials a specially constructed apparatus here all the heat produced by the combustion could be accurately measured, and by making various experiments and computations to determine heat lost in the process of digest of food, it has been found that 1 gram (approximately 1.28 of an oz.) of fat will yield 9 calories. 1 gram of carbohydrates will yield 4 calories. 1 gram of protein will yield 4 calories. To determine then the energy value that any food will have for the body, it is necessary to know the amount of fat, carbohydrate and protein it contains, then multiply by the above factors. For example: The average banana weighing 
 95 grams (pealed) contains 1.235 grams protein, .57 grams of fat and 20.90 grams carbohydrate;  its fuel value would therefore be:  or 4.940+5.13+83.60 93.57 calories. To those interested in making studies of this kind, Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department of Agriculture, will be found helpful, and can be obtained free, or at least at slight expense by writing the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. Determining Food Requirement. In feeding babies it will be remembered that weight for any given age was taken as the main factor in determining quantity of food required;  the same is true ordinarily in making directories for older children, however, when greater accuracy is required, height, body surface, and activity are taken into consideration. Where weight is the only factor it is wise to make liberal food allowance for the child's activity. Up to the age of fourteen years, no difference is made in arranging dietaries for boys and girls of the same age and weight, but it has been found that from fourteen to seventeen boys require food sufficient to produce two hundred or three hundred calories per day more than do girls of the same age and weight. Most experts, however, incline to the belief that this fact is due to greater activity on the part of the boys rather than to influence of sex. The following average weights of boys and girls at different ages are taken from tables prepared by Dr. T. D. Wood: Table 1 Boys Girls At 5 years 25- 46 pounds 34- 45 pounds At 6 years 36- 48 pounds 35- 48 pounds At 7 years 42- 54 pounds 39- 50 pounds At 8 years 45- 59 pounds 42- 56 pounds At 9 years 50- 65 pounds 49- 63 pounds At 10 years 53- 71 pounds 54- 69 pounds At 11 years 61- 78 pounds 60- 75 pounds At 12 years 63- 85 pounds 63- 94 pounds At 13 years 67-100 pounds 65-104 pounds At 14 years 67-122 pounds 78-114 pounds At 15 years 79-136 pounds 89-118 pounds At 16 years 90-140 pounds 100-121 pounds At 17 years 104-146 pounds 109-125 pounds Table 2 The following table of calorific requirements per pound body weight for different ages is adopted from tables given by Dr. H. C. Sherman: At 2- 5 years „ 40-36 calories per pound At 6- 9 years 36-32 calories per pound At 10-13 years _ „ _22-27 calories per pound At 14-17 years _ _27-20 calories per pound To determine then the number of calories a child's food is to supply in one day it is necessary to ascertain his weight in pounds, then multiply by the number of calories required per pound by a child of his age, thus: A child eight years old weighing 50 pounds would require 50x32 to 50x36, or 1600 to 1800 calories per day. In estimating the total calories required per day the question naturally arises as to what part of this requirement is to be supplied by protein, since it is known each day's diet must contain sufficient protein to provide for growth and repair. This requirement is much more difficult to determine and after similar series of experiments in protein feeding, various experts have arrived at conclusions concerning the protein requirement ranging from 8} per cent to 16 per cent of the total calories per day. In making children's dietaries 15 per cent is considered sufficient to provide for all normal growth and activity. Hence, in the example above the daily protein requirement for an eight-vear-old child weighing 50 pounds would be 15 per cent of 1600 to 15 per cent of 1800 or 240 to 270 calories. Or, since each gram of protein yields 4 calories, the number of grams protein required per day would be 240-4 to 270--4 or 60 to 67.5 grams, which is approximately 2 ounces. To illustrate the variety of food essential to children's daily rations and to indicate proper amounts the following sample menus are given: I. Sample of one day's menu for a child seven years old weighing 42 pounds. Reference to the Table 2 shows the calorific requirement of a child of this age to be 36-32 calories per pound body weight. The total calories per day would then equal 42x36 (mean between 36 and 32, arbitrarily chosen) 1428 calories. 15 per cent of 1428  214.2 calories to be supplied by protein. 214-453.7 number of grams protein required. With the aid of the tables showing food analysis, such as those given in Experiment Station Bulletin No. 28, referred to above, the following list of foods will be found to come within two and a half calories of the required amount. 
 Weight, Grams Calounces protein ories Milk 1 quart 34.4 32.8 675 Natural rice 1 lb. .55 1.4 50 Bread 6 slices 4.14 10.8 300 Apple 1 7.49.64 100 Egg:....l 1.66 6.36 70 Celery 1 stock 1.00.28 5.5 Butter 2 tb. .92.26 200 Sugar y2 tb. .22 25 Totals 51.66 1425.5 Sample menus for one day, suitable for a child seven years of age: Breakfast Rice 4 tablespoonfuls (cooked) Milk 1 cup (>4 pint). Toast  slices. Butter " tablespoon ful. Mid-morning Lunch Milk 1 cup {Yi pint). Dinner Egg 1. Bread? slices. Butter 2 tablespoonfuls. Celery 1 stock. Baked apple 1. With sugar  tablespoonful. Mid-afternoon Lunch Milk 1 cup ( pint). Supper Milk 1 cup (>< pint). Bread 2 slices. Butter Yz tablespoonful. IL Dietary for a twelve year