[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 586 | Fiction | A Place to Retire | Frances Carter Yost]
D-difficult A Place to Retire & "The trouble with most of us is that we are brought up to believe that happiness is a goal, like a motel at the end of a vacation drive. Like a luscious dessert after a skimpy dinner. Life isn't that way at all, Sadie." "I guess you're night, Vic." Vic McGuire was driving the car. Sadie, his dear little wife, age sixty-five, was seated beside him. It has been a long drive. Vic knew he had driven too far for a man of his age, with no one to take a turn at the wheel. All day he had had a wishful thought that perhaps he could make their destination tonight. Now he realized it was asking too much of nerve and sinew to push on It seemed to Vic that they had been traveling for six months. 586 Frances Carter Yost True, they had started last fall when the leaves turned yellow and red, and the crystal wind whirled _ through their _little orchard. Friends had begged them to come and make their home close to them and enjoy the fruits of city living. It had been rather enjoyable. There was something always exciting going on, that was for sure. He and Sadie had had some most interesting experiences, he couldn't deny that. "What do you Say we stop at the next cosy little motel that has a vacancy sign out, Sadie?" "I'm sure it would be wise. You are probably very tired. I had hoped we would get there, but there's always tomorrow." Sadie smiled up at him affectionately. "Yes, there's always tomorrow," Vic murmured. Then he started wondering about their tomorrows. He wondered how many tomorrows there really were ahead to count on. Someone had said to stop trying to carry the past around on your shoulders. The past is set clay, nothing can change it. We don't need our yesterdays. And who would want a clean slate of yesterdays, even if things did work that way? Here and now is where to start, one can't go back. Look ahead and plug along as best you can. A person retired as I am, Vic McGuire thought, no daily job to work on or worry about, has a lot of time on his hands. Yet time is what life is made of. If you don't have time you don't have anything. Vic started thinking about their friends, Martha and Harvey Slater. "You're kind of quiet, Vic. You're not getting drowsy at the wheel, are you?" "I was just thinking about Martha and Harvey, Sadie."' "It was mighty nice of them to invite us to come and be neighbors, to renew our friendship and live close by, Vic." "Yes, it is mighty nice of them. Can't think of anyone I'd rather be near than the Slaters. How would you like city life, Sadie?" "Well, it's as Martha said. They can go to the best theater, and see live stage plays. They have advantages living close to the university. But, somehow, it isn't for me." "That fighting traffic isn't for me. I prefer an easy drive to Church on a Sunday morning and live close enough to walk if." "If I am not able to go to Church."' Sadie laughed. ''You're always so thoughtful. If you are A PLACE TO RETIRE going to Priesthood meeting, you walk, but if I'm going anywhere you get the car out." "A fellow needs the exercise and the fresh air, Sadie."' As they traveled along, the sky turned gold, then silver-blue. And the moon came up behind the black trees. The McGuires were driving on a lonely road now. Vic knew he should have stopped at the last city; but when a person is headed someplace, it seems sort of natural to push ahead. That is what he had done all his life... Push ahead. Ir was hard to remember now, just to meander with no real purpose. Too bad they couldn't have had a big family, like most folks. But that was something he didn't even mention. Sadie couldn't help the fact that she could never be a mother. There wasn't any use dwelling on that. He wouldn't trade Sadie for any mother that he had ever seen. Vic wondered if... Perhaps in eternity... They might be parents have a family? But one must not think that far ahead. "This life is the time to prepare to meet God." Scripture was so much a part of his life that even in his daily thoughts... Scripture seemed to pop into his mind. "Vic, I'm afraid that you are overly tired. We should have stopped back at the other town. Do you think it would be wise to pull off the road for awhile?" "Perhaps I should, Sadie, just for a moment. My eyes are tired." Vic knew it wasn't a safe idea to stop along the wayside, especially in a dark, unknown area. But 


 there wasn't any need to worry have to fight traffic to get to Sadie by mentioning that. Church as much as Martha and "Just a moment of shut-eye, Harvey back east. And when a and then we'll drive on. Ho person gets too old to drive, peohum." ple in the city probably wouldn't Vic McGuire stretched out his be interested in helping elderly legs and slumped under the folks get around." steering wheel. But thoughts still "I thought of that, too, Vic." kept going through his mind. "Well, I believe I have rested He recalled the visit they had my eyes. It's better if we move made to their other best friends, on and get to a town where we John and Emily Kunz who had can put up for the night," chosen to retire on the coast. "I'm rather tired, Vic. A good They had accompanied them to bed will be welcome." Mexico City for the bull fights Vic started the motor, drove and swimming at Acapulco. Why, the car back on the highway, and from their front-room window, _ started humming a tune: "Tumthey could watch the surfing. Te-tum-te-tum-te-tum-te." They also went deep sea fishing "Oh, Vic, there's the Shady frequently. Vic liked that. Rea] Rest Motel. It looks inviting. Sport. He smiled. Shall we stop there?" John had purchased a little "Good idea, Sadie, and there's motor boat and taken a few saila little cafe right next door. Hope ing lessons. Vic wondered if sailthey have a little cook that can ing was wise at their age. He and cook half as well as my Sadie Emily out there in a bay alone. Girl."' f a wind should come up sud- "Oh, Vic, you say the sweetest denly, they could be washed out things."' to sea, and no on would miss It was eight o'clock the next them until it was too late. Morning when Vic folded himself Vic turned restlessly, again in the driver's Seat, with "You're not sleeping, Vic. Sadie at his side. Penny for your thoughts." "With luck, we should make it "Oh huh? I was thinking in good time today, Sadie." about John and Emily." "Tl be glad to get there, Vic. "It was nice of them to invite The trip has been quite exhaustus to their lovely seaside home." ing." "Yes, it was nice of them, They traveled along for someSadie. But the traffic is heavy time, with only the bridge of there, too. Why, John and Emily sound between them. Off to the a » oy. -. * ~ Se ey RP pane he i wah ee 588 north Sadie saw a faint cloud of dust that marked the progress of sheep. "Do you Suppose those sheep are looking for greener pastures, Vic?" "Could be, Sadie. Could be. Then, too,. They might be headed home."' The tires going round and round ate up the road before them. And as the wheels turned, Vic kept humming the song which was always on his mind. "Look, Sadie, there's a retirement village. How would you like to take a look inside and see the set up? Perhaps that is just what we might like. You know, friends right under the same roof. Church within walking distance... Village shopping center." "But." "Let's take a look. I need to stretch my legs anyway." "In that Case, Vic, we surely Should look around." It was a half hour later when the McGuires came back to the car and started down the road again. "Well, what did you think of the rest home, Sadie?" "It was nice, Vic, but." "They had nurses and doctors right there, if a person should need them." "Yes, they did, Vic, but." "And the food looked mighty tasty there in the kitchen." "Yes, the food did look good. But I'm used to just looking at you over the table, Vic. All those older people. 'm Sure they are kind and lovely persons, but they looked lonely, even among other folks." "Well, here we are wending our way onward. Look at the sun A PLACE TO RETIRE shining like a brand new tendollar gold piece. Did you ever see a _ ten-dollar gold piece, Sadie?" "Why, yes, my father had one when I was a child." "There wasn't any money like that in our family." Vic chuckled. "I stem from poor, but honest folks." They traveled along in silence for a time, sharing a lovely view here and a point of interest there. Vic found himself thanking God privately that money, or he should say, the lack of money, wasn't too much of a problem to them. He had seen to it that they had enough money put away to keep the wolf from getting past the doorman. Vic started whistling the same tune he had had on his mind for the past three days. "That's one of my favorite songs, Vic. I love the words, they are so meaningful. Difference where I wander, any place that I may roam. When the golden sun sinks in the west, then I think of home." "Very pretty, Sadie. ] always did say you had a good enough voice you could have gone far in opera." "Flattery will get you nowhere, Vic." But he could see that she was pleased. "Well, what do you know! We're almost there! I could shut my eyes and drive it the rest of the way." "Victor McGuire, don't you dare shut your eyes, while you're driving," Sadie chided. "Don't believe I will. Too much to see." 


 "Oh, Vic, look at the climbing roses. They've never been so beautiful!" "Sadie, someone has watered and mowed our lawn while we've been gone. Can you beat that?" Vic McGuire turned into the driveway so automatically anyone watching would know he had done it hundreds of times before. As he did so, people came out of the houses up and down the street. Vic brought the car to a stop and unfolded himself and got out. "Mr. And Mrs. McGuire, you're back! We missed you!"' "Can we help you with your luggage?"' The children gathered closely around Vic, and he stooped down to listen to each one. "The wheel broke on my bicycle and Dad's to busy to help." "Bring it over in the morning, Jerry." ' "Look, Mr. McGuire, I painted my wagon. Do you like the color?" "Fire-engine red is my favorite color, Billy." "Mr. McGuire, I want to help you prune the apple trees again this year." "It's rather late, but better late than never, Dicky boy." "You weren't here to plant a garden, Mr. McGuire, so I planted three extra rows special for you and Mrs. McGuire." "Why, that's mighty thoughtful of you, Tom." At last Vic and Sadie were in the house. Each piece of furniture seemed like an old friend. When their things were put away, they sat down in the comfortable chairs in the living room. It was far too warm for a cosy fire in the fireplace, but still the same cosy warmth of enjoyment was there for them. "God has been good to us, Vic, guiding us home. Home is the best place to be when old age sets in. Here among good friends and neighbors.... Among familiar trees and flowers." "Kast or west, home's best," Vic said.