[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 604 | Fiction | Tell Me of Love— Chapter 2 | Rosa Lee Lloyd]
and other seasonings to taste, and enough water to half-way cover. Steam until potatoes are tender. Add cubed bologna, ham, or canned lunch meat, and enough canned milk to make the dish creamy. Allow to stand for several minutes before serving. Grated cheese enhances the flavor and nutrition. Or, fry some bacon and add potatoes and corn for a delicious meal in a skillet. TRICKS WITH INSTANT PUDDINGS Try serving instant pudding in an ice-cream cone for a children's surprise. Banana flavor is especially good with sliced bananas. Sprinkle with nuts, cake candies, coconut, or top with a cherry. If you have a blender, use it to good advantage. Prepare your instant pudding according to directions, then freeze in your ice tray. When ready to use, spoon the frozen pudding into your blender. Add sugar, flavoring, a little milk (whole, canned, or skim, depending on how calorie-conscious you are) and blend to desired consistency. USING YOUR BLENDER Speaking of blenders, don't let yours sit idle, especially if you have a freezer, too. I prepare powdered milk as for drinking, then freeze several trays. The frozen milk is then ready for milk shakes at a moment's notice. Half a tray will make a blenderful. Add about 14 c. Sugar, 1% c. Fluid milk, bananas, frozen peaches, strawberries, raspberries, cantaloupe, and flavoring. Vanilla is good, but for something special, try orange or some other fruit flavor. Canned fruits can be used, too. Use the same recipe, substituting canned fruits for the frozen fruits. FREEZING FRESH FRUITS If you are in an area where fresh fruits are easily available, freeze your own fruits. Add sugar as desired to crushed strawberries, peaches, apricots, raspberries, etc., and freeze in plastic bags or milk cartons. Frozen peaches will turn brown when thawing, so use them immediately. Did you know that you can freeze rhubarb with no preparation but cutting it in pieces? When ready to use, prepare as for fresh rhubarb. SUGGESTIONS FOR MAKING PRESERVES When I make preserves, I cook plums, apricots, peaches, in a small amount of water (after pitting), and cook until tender. I pour off all the juice I can, then mash the fruit with a potato masher. Usually it is necessary to pour off the juice again. Then I continue with the jam in the usual manner, but I seldom use pectin because the fruit is so free from juice. I don't use as much sugar as the recipe calls for, which gives the jam more of a fresh fruit flavor. But I don't waste the juice. Oh, no! I sweeten it and bottle it for use in fruit punch. For extra flavor and to help it set, add flavored gelatin to jam. USE OF THE HOME FREEZER Don't let your freezer sit idle during the canning season. Many kinds of vegetables can be frozen very well. I have successfully frozen asparagus, beet greens, chard, beets, corn-on-the-cob, and corn cut off the cob, as well as other foods. During the hot weather, I freeze my bread to keep it fresh. Also, other baked goods freeze well and are like freshly baked products when they are thawed. Freezing leftovers is a good economy procedure, and will provide meals when you don't have time to cook. 597 Shirley Thulin. Aes tree "eo d ry) * «.. U:. - > +- ' - pe ths * peiten., I bet Fees, ' bg 54 P« - -:. Test 4; ad:> 5: shes. - os 4 — ~=ZS al te - - > ome I » -- —% i - ~~?. -—- = - > *~.,; "— oL): +P < dee 7 ) Pane: a> a' 47 = i= oe -. + > * - died - " ny ¢.; Lay o-" ~ ~, y @ Here's a new recipe! Not a food recipe, but one for two smart luncheon cloths with napkins to match, that are almost pretty enough to eat. They are so fresh looking and eye pleasing, you will want to invite your neighbors in for an impromptu luncheon to show them off. The first one has realistic fruit appliqued in each corner of a gaily I checked cloth. The material needed is just 114 yards of any good cotton check, 36 inches wide. I Make the cloth 36 inches square and make four napkins from the I remaining half yard. If you don't have bits of plain colored material from which to cut the fruit, get a fourth yard of each of the following: yellow for the pears, red for the cherries, green for the leaves, and lavender for the grapes. Cut your patterns from paper first. Figures 1, 2, 3, and 4, will give you the general shape to enlarge. When tracing them on your material, be sure to leave a small margin all around each piece to turn under. It is best to press the edges under and baste them on in place before stitching to the cloth. If you have a zigzag machine, you can applique the brightly colored fruit on in a jiffy. Be sure to baste in place and use matching thread. Then just zigzag all around each piece. If you have the stitches close together, it will never fray no matter how much washing it undergoes. — You may want to make big red apples or oranges in place of the fruit suggested. Now, to finish, pull the threads to make a fringe about an inch wide on all four edges of the napkins and cloth. Run a machine stitch close to the edge to insure against further unraveling. 598 I (figure 1) Pear I: (figure 2) Cherries, (figure 4) Grapes (figure 3) Leaves The second cloth is even easier. It takes a yard and a half of rayon burlap. If the burlap is wider than 36 inches, get another half yard, making two yards in all. This will let you have a larger cloth. Make the cloth square, and use the remainder for napkins. You will also need some six-strand embroidery thread. You can make beautiful color combinations. The rayon fabric comes in beautiful shades of tan, orange, greens... Then choose thread to contrast. Bright orange thread looks so pretty on a tan fabric. You are going to use three or four rows of stitching, So use different colors, such as two rows of orange, and one of light green. To make the cloth, first cut off both selvage edges all along each side. Then pull a thread near the top edge to show you where to cut off the uneven part. Now measure down so the cloth will be square, and 


 pull another thread. This ensures your cutting evenly. Fringe the cloth and napkins all around and machine stitch with matching thread close to the fringe so threads will not pull out. For running stitches, take three strands of brightly-colored embroidery thread and without breaking and knotting the end, make a running stitch by hand in a design all around the cloth about 6 inches from the edge. (fig.5) You can be as fancy or as plain with the design as you wish. Keep pulling the thread through so that there is one continuous thread all around with only one starting or stopping place. Do not use yarn, because it will shrink and pull or may fade when the cloth is laundered. Run another color of thread near the first one, and then a third and fourth one if desired. All stitching could be the same color, or all different, as you want. Make the napkins to match. (figure 5) Running stitches at edge of cloth GARDENER'S NOTE Enid F. Woolley Judbury, Huon, Tasmania Australia Love is a precious plant which needs the sunshine of humor to keep it constantly in bloom. It also needs the weeds of selfishness to be continually cleared from its roots, lest the gentle watering of forgiveness cannot moisten the soil sufficiently to permit new shoots to burst through. Regularly mix and apply equal measures of the fertilizers of trust and loyalty each time you spray the leaves with tolerance. This treatment, along with the careful pruning of any branches of self-pity, will ensure lifelong joy in the growth of your plants and endless delight in the beauty of their blooms and the perfume they send forth. 600 Vhat a Beautiful Day '=a & my G. Bond. »!. = + =.. ~ " # -. - eee Oe. Mw It was the first time since my illness I felt I could walk the one block from our home to the chapel. As I returned home from Relief Society several of the sisters offered me a ride, but I kindly refused. I just wanted to take in the beauty of the day and reflect on the soulstirring lessons and testimonies we had just heard. The sky was blue, with not one cloud, and the air was balmy. I stopped to watch three jets as they maneuvered high above the earth. The white streams made a lacy pattern against the azure sky. It made me think of ruffled lace. How thankful I was that I had eyes to take in all this beauty, and ears to hear the songs of the birds. The very air breathed "Wake up and live." There is so much beauty all around us, yet we are usually in too much haste really to enjoy the things we take for granted. How grateful I am to be alive and able to enjoy these wonderful things around me. As I continued on my way I thought of the things that could give me happiness and didn't cost much except a little effort. Some women need a new hat to make them happy, but I need only to have the windows of my home washed so I can really see the beauty outside and inside, too. Yes, inside. Everything looks brighter inside and outside when our windows are clean. This suggests to me that we should also keep the windows of our souls washed clean so we can truly see the beauties of the gospel. If these windows are clean, the light of the gospel can shine through from the outside in, as well as from the inside out, and fill our lives with all its radiance. Let us take a few minutes each day to enjoy the beauty around us, keeping our windows bright and shining to appreciate and magnify the beauties of the gospel and of life. Let us thank our Father in heaven for the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ and the opportunities it gives us for development and service. 


 MARJORIE B. SILVER — MAKER OF FRUIT CAKES Marjorie Blake Silver, Newark, California, is an expert at making — fruit cakes. It all began thirteen years ago, when the Centerville Ward was in need of funds for building a chapel. Sister Silver was given five dollars ''to develop her talents.'' Thus began a baking career. Sister Silver made the cakes from an old recipe brought from Scotland, her native country. From the sale of the first cakes she received several hundred dollars for the chapel building fund. Then the Centerville ward was divided, and in the new ward, Sister Silver repeated her previously successful project. In October she again began making fruit cakes, and before Christmas she had used over 150 pounds each of sugar and flour, 100 pounds of walnuts, seventy-five pounds of margerine, and large amounts of raisins, glazed fruits, and spices. She made 1,098 fruit cakes in 1965, and donated $1,000 to the building fund for the Newark Chapel. Many of her cakes were sent to faraway places, including Florida, France, and Germany. This project occupied the mornings of her busy days. Four afternoons of each week she spent in the Oakland Temple. 602 surface Cleaning Dorothy C. Little @ It's not your uncleaned house that makes you nervous, nor is it your noisy children. It's the clutter. So get rid of the clutter! It takes about ten minutes to each room. Here is the way to surface-clean your house. First stack the breakfast dishes in the sink and let them soak in hot, soapy water. Then make the beds. Carry with you from room to room a large paper sack, a duster, and a damp rag. Into the sack put papers and things to be thrown away. Dust, wipe away children's finger marks, and you're ready if someone drops by. Now, wash the dishes. Never tackle any project like sewing or vanning, until the house has been surface-cleaned. If toys and papers are picked up and the rugs are straight, you can feel pretty good about things! Every woman needs a "miscellaneous drawer," and the bigger the better! Whether you have a harvest crew trooping in for dinner, or you just saw Aunt Matilda and her family drive into the yard, your miscellaneous drawer will come to your rescue. Just scoop up the coloring books, crayons, and peanut butter sandwich crusts all in one armful and dump them into the drawer. You will usually be able to cram it shut before anybody sees you. Plenty of time to sort things out later! One smart housewife uses her miscellaneous drawer for everything her family forgets to put away. Whenever a member of the family leaves an article in the living room, and it comes up missing, he always knows where to look for it without asking Mom. Blessed miscellaneous drawer! About that harvest crew again—if you ever find yourself at the stroke of twelve with no dinner ready, just hurry and set the table, including the milk and bread. No one will complain as they wait in the living room and you will have about fifteen minutes in which to get something together. (Don't try this very often!) If dinner happens to be every bit ready on the stove, keeping hot, but the table is not set, someone is likely to ask if he has time to grease the tractor before he eats. Believe me, it's a good idea to set the table as soon as the potatoes are peeled!

Tell Me of Love Chapter 2 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram from her Aunt Isabelle asking her to fly home at once due to an emergency in the family. Her friend Betz Condon goes with her. While traveling, they meet Carolyn Bridges, matron at a hospital in Perth. Gw The heat was stifling and heavy, even at five o'clock in the morning, as they edged through the crowd at the airport on Fiji. "Oh, look at my feet!" Betz moaned. "They are swollen twice the size of my shoes." "You can expect that," Miss Bridges explained. "We have dropped down to a low altitude. But it is extra warm here for September. This is the beginning of our springtime." "But Julie's feet aren't swollen," Betz said. "Neither are yours. Why mine?" 604 Rosa Lee Lloyd "Sometimes mine swell,' Miss Bridges told her. "There's no rule. Maybe we can buy some straw sandals somewhere." "I'll need a size twelve!" Betz laughed. "Look, the big bus is crowded." "There's an old jeep with a 'for hire' sign on it," Julie pointed out. "The driver looks real elegant, with his white trousers and red sash." "Would you rather ride a bicycle?" Julie suggested, pointing to a rack of them nearby. "Let's do it!" Betz agreed. Then they both looked at Miss Bridges. "Pll take my chances in the old jeep," she said, smiling. "We'll go ahead up the trail. Follow closely so you won't get lost. I want you to meet someone I know at a fruit stand." The trail was a dirt road leading upward through lush tropical plants six feet high on either side. The sun beat down mercilessly on their heads. Flies and _ insects buzzed around them. Julie pedaled in a slow, steady rhythm, but Betz raced off ahead of her. When Julie finally caught up with her she had thrown herself on the side of the path in an exhausted heap. "Oh, Julie!" she wailed. 'I can't go on. I'll wait here for you." "Not here!" Julie said. ""You're in an ant bed." She pulled her up and brushed her off, but she was already burning with bites. "Let's go back to the plane," Betz demanded. "This heat is ghastly." "Would you like a nice cool drink of pineapple juice?" Julie asked, gently. "Sure, I would. You get it for me, Julie. You haven't been in an ant bed." "Righto," Julie agreed. "You look like a painted clown. But now, you look at me. My head is ready to pop. My eyes hurt with the glare, but I know we've got to go on if we get that pineapple juice. So—let's get on with it." "I can't make it up there, Julie," Betz said. Julie gave her a push. Little glints were in her eyes. "You can make it," she said. "Tf you're going around the world you better start right now to prove you can take it." Betz bit her lip. "I didn't know you could be so—so utterly." "So utterly what?' Julie laughed. 'You know I love you, Betz, but quit acting like a baby. TELL ME OF LOVE We're just wasting time. Maybe they'll have some eucalyptus oil for those bites." Reluctantly, Betz got on her bicycle again. Five minutes later they saw the old jeep parked beside a thatched hut. There was a wide counter holding huge containers of pineapple juice. Dozens of people were quenching their thirst with the luscious drink. Miss Bridges was talking to a sweet-faced woman her own age and an older man, very tall, with a sandy-colored beard. "Well, hello!" Miss Bridges greeted them. The tall man handed them gay mugs of the fruit juice. "Drink well, girls,' he said with a true Australian accent. Julie was sure she had seen him somewhere before. I "This is my friend, Lucile Clark,' Miss Bridges explained, "and her uncle, Dan Fargo."' "They call me Big Dan," he said with a grin that showed his fine white teeth. "That is what you both shall call me." 'He is a real character,' Betz whispered back. "I'll bet he knew Captain Kid and Long John Silver." "Did you ever taste such juice?" Miss Bridges asked them. "Umm!" Betz smacked her lips. 'Now, if I can buy some eucalyptus oil I'll be okay. Look at these bites!" "You are a sight." "We might have a drop or two left,' Big Dan said. "We've nearly hit the bottom of the barrel I sent over from Australia. Those are just little ant bites. They come and go like ripples on the sea. Shall we tip the barrel?" 


 Big Dan said to Lucile as they disappeared inside the hut. Miss Bridges said quickly: "I wanted you to meet these wonderful people. I didn't know Big Dan was here so this is a privilege. He is always in demand somewhere as he is an expert on water conditions in Australia. He is a self-taught man, but his opinions and experience are sought after by top engineers. He has just had a message to retum to Australia, so he will be on the plane with us." "Then he can ride my bicycle back down the hill," Betz said. "I']l go in the jeep with you." "Shall we wait and see?" Miss Bridges asked. "We can trust Big Dan." "I would like to know your friends better," Julie said, hoping Miss Bridges would overlook Betz's suggestion. "Big Dan has been a father to Lucile and her three sons," Miss Bridges went on. "Her husband was killed in a willie-willie out in Carnarvon twenty years ago. Big Dan brought them here to Fiji. He owned this property and the boys worked hard with the pineapples. Lucile took care of this fruit stand. Now the boys are in the University at Sydney. As soon as they are graduated and earning their own living, Lucile will return home. She is very proud of her three sons." "Three sons!" Julie repeated. "How wonderful." "Yes, isn't it?" Miss Bridges answered with a lonesomeness in her voice. "It wasn't easy for any of them way out here. I always stop every trip so I can keep in touch. Lucile and I went to school together in Perth." 606 "I'm sure she's glad to see you," Betz said. "You've traveled all over the world and can keep her up-to-date." "Tucile gives me more than I give her," Miss Bridges answered quietly. 'True, I have been all over the world, but the world has come to Lucile Clark. Her life has been one of fulfillment in spite of hardship. Sometimes:.. I almost envy Lucile." Big Dan came out of the hut with a battered old suitcase and his guitar slung over his shoulder. Lucile hurried to serve the new customers. Big Dan handed Betz a tiny bottle of oil. Betz dabbed the oil on swollen bites. "Oh, it really does help," breathed gratefully. Big Dan put his suitcase and guitar in the back of the jeep and came back to the stand. He wore a colored plaid shirt and a big hat almost like an American cowboy. "PII ride one bicycle and wheel the other," he said. "The girls can ride back with you, Carolyn. There's only twenty minutes till take-off." the she Miss Bridges looked at Betz with a significant smile. "He is a real gentleman," she murmured. Betz smiled, too. She's really a good sport, Julie thought. Then Betz said, "Why don't we call you Carolyn, Miss Bridges? Let's not be so stuffy." Julie caught her breath. Lucile held a glass of juice in mid-air as she looked at Carolyn Bridges who drew herself up straight and tall and every inch the hospital matron, for a long, silent moment. Big Dan lifted one eyebrow a half inch above the other one, waiting for Carolyn's answer. ArT last a smile edged her lips, and she put her hand on Betz's shoulders. "Quite right!" she said. ''Let's not be stuffy. You may call me Carolyn from now on."' Julie relaxed. The words ''quite right" instead of "righto" kept Carolyn up on a pedestal with Grandfather and Aunt Isabelle. "Time to go!"' Big Dan called out. He patted Lucile and pinched her cheek. "Take it easy," he said. ''I'll be back when the job is finished."' Then he was off down the hill with the bicycles. "Goodbye Fiji Islands," Betz sang out as they crowded into the jeep. "The paradise of the Pacific." Carolyn laughed. "They say that about every island we pass. But each one is a little paradise. Goodbye, Lucile," she waved again. "See you next trip." Breakfast was served ten minutes after they took off from Fiji. Julie was hungry and, in spite of her anxiety, she enjoyed a thick TELL ME OF LOVE slice of ham, sweet rolls, milk, and a banana. They were flying high now, far above great cotton-puff clouds. Julie took Ron's last letter from her purse and read it dreamily. Grandfather considered one letter a month enough. This letter was dated August seventeenth, a month ago. Julie, My Love: The first year at the University is almost over. I am glad that Grandfather will be pleased when he sees my number in the paper. Being separated from you is beyond measure in loneliness and yearning. Last week end I went up north into the bush with a group of hydraulic engineers from school. As you know, it has always been my dream to help make this wilderness green and productive, so people like our own parents can live in comfort. The ride up the coast in Bob Stouffer's old car was very cold and miserable. We nearly froze at night, although we wore our socks and kept a fire burning. As you know, Western Australia has only two seasons, winter and summer. Our winter came in April, and now it is August, and spring is just breaking through without much success. The scenery was a lonely stretch, mile after mile. I was depressed and lonely and resentful because we are forced to be separated. I can quit school, I thought, and go to the United States where Julie is. I was tired of the bush without you there. And then, just before we reached Dongarra, and about ten miles from Grandfather's station, we unexpectedly came upon fields of flowers— pink and blue and yellow. I have never seen such gorgeous color. It was like driving through the rainbow. Bob and I knew they were the "Everlastings.' The petals were crisp and transparent. It was a 


 feast of beauty. I wished you were there with me. I decided to ride the ten miles to our station. Anyway, I wanted to see my kelpie, Casey Jones. I love that old sheep dog and it's always a big day for him when I can get up there. But that's ahead of my story. As I stood there in that field of flowers, I decided again that I would give up school and hit out for the United States. No one can keep me from Julie, I thought. Then, as though someone touched my shoulder, I felt the presence of Grannie, and something she had said to me during her last illness came back to me. What courage she had, Julie. What faith in spite of her pain. I was eighteen again. I had come from the tennis tournament dragging my feet because I had lost. As usual, I went upstairs to say goodnight to Grannie and to tell her about the game. "I know," she said. "It is hard to lose when you have worked so hard to win; but the work and the striving are never lost. That effort is always yours, and takes you one step upward on the stairway of life. Learn this, my boy, and remember it always—to live is to know both bitter and sweet. No one, rich or poor, escapes that. The wise ones cherish the sweet. And the bitter fades away." "Grannie,"' I asked her, "are you reminding me to count my _ blessings?" "IT am, indeed," she smiled back. So, right there, in that field of flowers, I thanked our Heavenly Father for beauty and life. I filled my heart with gratitude for all the years of our childhood together with the Ridgehaven family. I asked him for courage and intelligence to carry out Grandfather's demands. Peace came to me, Julie, and strength to carry on toward completing my course at the University. So we must wait patiently for that golden day when we will be to- 605 gether again. Always remember that my love for you ts a field of everlasting flowers, brightening the long, lonely road. Love always, Ron P. S. Yes, I saw Casey Jones and had a beaut of a time to make him stay on the ranch. Next month we are going further inland to inspect some sites for possible development of underground water. It should be interesting and instructive. WULIE folded the letter and put it back in her purse. Grannie was right. You had to cherish the sweet in this world. Big Dan, seated beside Julie, looked down at her and said, "The sea looks as vast and lonely as the Australian bush." "Yes," Julie said, "I remember." "You have lived in the bush country?" he asked. "T lived out there until I was nine years old," Julie told him. "My mother taught me to sing and play the banjo. She said every girl should carry her own music with her."' Julie pointed to the banjo. ""The man I am going to marry plays the guitar, so we will have our own music. He is out in Perth learning to be an hydraulic engineer. Someday we will live in the bush, because Ron's work will be there." The smile faded from Big Dan's lips. A deep frown puckered his brows together. "Ron? The boy's name is Ron?" he questioned. "Why, yes!" Julie beamed. "Do you know him? His name is Ron McLaren." Big Dan looked at Carolyn. Their eyes caught and held, and a message passed between them. Seeeroas FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Edmonton Stake (Alberta, Canada) Singing Mothers Present Concert April 29, 1966 Marie C. Burnham, President, Edmonton Stake Relief Society, reports: "April 29th was a thrilling evening for 130 Singing Mothers of Edmonton Stake, as they presented 'Magic of Melody.' Under the direction of Beulah Doney, chorister, accompanied by June Holden, organist, the Singing Mothers sang sacred and secular music to an audience of 900 people. Six of the wards each sang one number, and the combined chorus delighted all with five selections. Ilean Begieneman was the narrator for the evening. Three guest artists: Anne Harris (soprano), Heather Sills (flutist), and Donna Lowry (organist) added variety and enjoyment to the recital. This was the first Singing Mothers recital attempted in Edmonton Stake, and was very successful. It was an effective missionary tool for Relief Society, as well as stimulating the interest of many nonmembers in attendance." San Fernando Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert March 18, 1966 Ina Easton, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society, reports: "In honor of the anniversary of Relief Society, and to share in the missionary effort that is being accelerated in this stake, approximately eighty-five Relief Society sisters from the eleven wards presented a concert under the able direction of Alta Hansen, chorister, and Hazel Holmes, organist. "Lucille Pack, Education Counselor, was in charge of the program, which inchided an original narration written by Tamara Burnham and Delilah Outram, portraying the story of the organization of Relief Society and its place in the life of a Latter-day Saint mother. All sisters who participated felt a sense of achievement and joy from this experience, and were not only thrilled with being able to share it with their families and friends in the Church, but with the added opportunity for teaching the gospel to nonmember friends who were in attendance." Mount Jordan Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention April 14, 1966 Front row, left to right: Wilmirth Simmons; Selma Hyde and Ellen Allgood (twins); Sadie McGuire;. Ethel Kemp; Lovina Harrison. Back row, standing, left to right: Matilda Smith; Ruth Davidson; Emily Blair; Annie Smith; Louise Riska; Mina S. Mickelsen; Melissa Smith. LaVerda O. Lloyd, President, Mount Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: ""Eaeh of the departments of Relief Society, including the nursery, was featured at the convention. Following a program, for which the stake Singing Mothers furnished the music, a fashion show was held. The sisters who had taken basic sewing courses in each of the wards modeled the dresses they had made. "Special recognition was accorded the visiting teachers. Honored guests were the sisters who were eighty years of age, or older, or who had given forty-five years or more of service in visiting teaching. The number of years of visiting teaching of the eighteen sisters in this group totals over seven hundred years. Many of the sisters are still serving."

610 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50.; AUGUST 1966 Spanish-American Mission, Llano Branch (Pefiasco, New Mexico) Bazaar and Luncheon, March 17, 1966 Elizabeth D. Matthews, Supervisor, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society, reports: ''To commemorate the birthday of Relief Society, the sisters of the Llano Branch held a bazaar and enchilada luncheon. They sold hand-embroidered dish towels, table covers, aprons, pillow cases, and hat-shaped pincushions. Many people came from far away to attend the celebration, even from as far away as Taos. The delicious enchilada luncheon was pleasing to everyone. "The sisters here are very excited to know that The Relief Society Magazine will be printed in Spanish (beginning in June 1966). None of the sisters reads English, and now they will have the benefits of this wonderful Magazine each month." Scottsdale Stake (Arizona) Presents Awards in Poetry Writing Contest March 17, 1966 Left to right: Marjorie E. V. Snyder, first place winner; other winners: Joanne B. Doxey, Philinda K. Naegle, and Peggy Ihrke. Fern A. Merrill, President, Scottsdale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Realizing that there is much creative talent among our stake membership, and with the desire to keep Relief Society interest high during the summer months, last summer we decided to sponsor a poetry contest open to all our membership, with the deadline set for November 30, 1965. To stimulate and encourage the timid, we offered help through a poetry clinic conducted by a competent sister. The response received from all age levels was most gratifying. We were thrilled with the quality and beauty of expression in the poems. Three categories of poetry were submitted: serious, light, and poetry for children. "All the entrants were honored during the proceedings of our combined March leadership meeting and Relief Society anniversary brunch. Each entrant was given a lovely corsage, and the winners were also given copies of books of poems." Juab Stake (Utah) Presents Fashion Show for Anniversary Observance March 16, 1966 Blanche B. Brough, President, Juab Stake Relief Society, reports: "A spring fashion show and Relief Society anniversary was held at the stake center, Nephi, Utah. The fashion show was under the direction of Counselor Jean D. Westring and work meeting leader Georgia P. Carter. The theme was 'Home Sewing Can Be Easy, Fun, and Profitable.' Each ward held sewing classes under the direction of the work leaders. "There were 158 sisters who sewed articles for themselves and their children. Suits, coats, best dresses, house dresses, formal evening dresses, and nightwear were modeled, and a number of articles were attractively displayed in the foyer. This project was started after the Christmas holidays. There were over two hundred articles completed. The building was attractively decorated with spring flowers and ornamental trees. It looked very festive and refreshing after winter's drabness. The Singing Mothers from two wards furnished appropriate music. Prizes were presented to the wards having the greatest percentage of members participating, with each ward being recognized for its efforts. "Light refreshments were served to over 400 in attendance. There was much enthusiasm created throughout the stake, and many learned new skills and that sewing can be easy, fun, and profitable. The picture does not show all of the participants, since all could not be included in one picture."