[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 625 | General Feature | Homemaking — Extending Homey Hospitality Hazel | S. Cannon]
HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Extending Homey Hospitality Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To discuss the joy which can come to a homemaker and her family through extending hospitality, and to show INTRODUCTION Hospitality, be it ever so simple, is one of the creative joys of life, and Aeschylus, ''Father of Greek Tragedy," gave us a true reason for entertaining when he said, '"'Pleasantest of all ties is the tie of host and guest." Customs in hospitality vary in different countries. Some adaptation of this discussion to suit different customs or foods may be necessary. TRUE HOSPITALITY Our pioneer grandmothers and great-grandmothers wore an aura of true hospitality with distinction. Though food preparation was laborious, the savory stew, the plump wheaty loaves, the hoarded dessert (so called because the table was "deserted" of everything else) were shared often. They found entertaining exciting and adventurous and satisfying, the role of food in entertaining. And a chance to be together. To share the heart of the home with no thought of "keeping up with the Joneses" was their pattern. How often you have heard: "My house is too small for entertaining; I'll ask the bishopric over for homemade ice cream when we can afford to redecorate," or '"'I'd like to let Stephen invite his teenage friends to our house, but I don't have the energy for preparing all that food."' Let your heart speak! Sharing with others should be part of your family's training. Give your house a shiny, clean face and forget that which you cannot do. Ten years from now those bidden to your home will not remember the faded wallpaper, but. They will remember with unforgettable delight the good food and the fun they had in a relaxed atmosphere. Hospitality does not mean spending next week's food budget in 


 one fell swoop, upsetting the household unduly, or completely exhausting the homemaker. The goal of the hostess is to have each guest enjoy the warmth of companionship, the shared interests, and the congeniality of refreshment. TO DISCUSS 1. What kinds of homey hospitality might families who are living in small apartments extend to their friends? Stipulate the occasion, the service, and the food to be served. (One young couple seats their friends on huge cushions on the floor and on homemade hassocks.) 2. What kinds of enjoyable entertainment might you plan for teenagers in your home? State ways in which you might simplify the food and the serving of it (be sure it is appealing to young people and that there is enough). HOSPITALITY HINTS 1. Do not invite guests to your home merely to repay an obligation. Someone has said, "Your motive will show." Duty is never compatible with true hospitality. 2. Food need not be expensive to be delicious. On cold winter nights one family serves a hearty corn chowder, ladled from a cherished old bowl, a crisp tossed salad, crusty homemade bread sticks, and for dessert they pass big bowls of caramel corn and fruit. One of their guests exclaimed, "It is far more interesting than filet mignon." 3. Do let guests feel that they are worth extra effort and consideration, but try to let them feel also that it was accomplished easily. 4. Do stock a little corner for entertaining on your pantry shelf, buying items a few at a time when the food budget is not strained. 5. Do prepare food sometimes when you are lonely or depressed. It will not only lift your spirits, but it is said that food prepared at these times is sure to have those "tastetingling ingredients" of true hospitality. 626 6. Do not apologize for the food, the service, or your home. Chances are that the things which bother you pass unnoticed by your guests. TO DISCUSS Case study—Jean and John are entertaining John's manager and his wife at dinner. The guests have arrived and the meal is ready to be served. While Jean answers a call from her two young children, who are supposed to be asleep, her featherlight rolls, her pride and joy, have become too brown—edible and not burned, but certainly not up to her usual standard. Which of the following should Jean do? (Justify your answer.) A. Quickly make muffins or baking powder biscuits. B. Send John to the little store a few blocks away for brown and serve rolls. C. Serve the overly-brown rolls; say nothing. D. Serve the rolls; casually mention that they are over-baked. MENU REMINDERS 1. Menus are very personal and the right menu depends upon many factors; create your own' individual food patterns, suited to your needs and the occasion, provide flavor zest and eye appeal without the menu's being bizarre. 2. Do you have a food specialty, one dish which you prepare easily and can depend upon every time? One hostess makes an excellent chicken casserole; another prepares delightful lasagne; another bakes salmon to a gourmet perfection. Capitalize on that which you do best. Build your menu around it. You don't have a specialty? Then find one; it will be fun and rewarding. 3. Do not experiment with a new dish for your party. Some pitfalls may lurk in that foolproof recipe that looks so glamorous in the picture. 4. Do not undertake too elaborate menus or foods requiring much lastminute attention. A made-the-day-before dessert and left resposing in the refrigerator may be far more desirable to serve than a baked Alaska. 5. Do-ahead foods are an undiluted joy, and ease the work of entertaining —the succulent meat dish ready to be popped into the oven, the quivery fruit mold waiting to be released on its enhancing bed of greens, the icebox rolls, pleading to be shaped by deft fingers. Especially if you do everything yourself, plan a number of quick-fix and day-before foods. 6. Plan your menu with the things you have tc do with in mind. SUMMARY There are no hard and fast rules for extending homey hospitality—no definite party foods. If the hostess sighs with relief as the last guest departs, you can ke quite certain that her guest is doing the same thing. The relaxed hostess who loves people, plans well, executes her plans, and does not undertake too much, will remain the 'hostess with the mostest." She will find the tie that binds host and guest stimuLESSON DEPARTMENT lating and fun and a made-formemory time. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. The little touches and garnishes can transform your old favorites into conversation pieces. Try to create or use others' ideas for garnishing food, excluding maraschino cherries and parsley. One member of the class or a committee might display some simple garnishes they have made. Something as simple as an autumn leaf on a plate with a cup of soup is attractive. Garden flowers or leaves also add a piquant touch. 2. Study your own cookbooks and recipes. Begin a menu file for different occasions and seasons. Create menus with an eye to your budget, advance preparation, ease of preparation, and fine points of menu making. Market orders and even recipes may be attached.