[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 617 | General Feature | Spiritual Living — Pre-Earth Life | Roy W. Doxey]
SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 74 — Pre-Earth Life (Text: Doctrine and Covenants 93:21-23, 27-29, 33-34.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman receives added strength for daily living from enlightenment on the purpose of earth life. FAITH IN CHRIST In the Christian world many theologians teach that Jesus Christ was not literally the Son of God, that he was only mortal —not divine, that his excellence was only in his teachings. This false teaching regarding Jesus seems to be increasing in a Christian world committed by the Bible to the acceptance of Jesus as the literal Son of God. (John 3:16, 18; Matt. 28:16-18.) In a comprehensive survey conducted a few years ago, it was indicated that despite the acknowledged belief in God by over ninety-six per cent of the people in the United States, there was little real vitality in their belief. Three leading theologians of the Jewish, Protestant, and Catholic faiths who analyzed the data of the survey revealed that most Americans regarded religion as "a private, painless pathway to heaven"; that about three quarters of them did not consider God as being related to their daily living; that a similar number did not associate their ideas of religion with their attitudes toward right and wrong. This survey also disclosed that students in higher education receive "adult" training in secular fields but "infant" education in religion. Class Discussion: In a world without a true knowledge of Jesus Christ and of his divinity, what does the contribution of the Doctrine and Covenants regarding this knowledge mean to you? 


 Suggestion: Have a dialogue in which one sister (could be a convert) tells what the Christian world, in general, teaches about the Godhead, and a second sister representing the Church tells of our true knowledge of the Godhead. In the Lord's Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, purposes for the restoration of the true Church and gospel are given. An important reason for the restoration of the gospel is that faith shall increase in the hearts of men. (D&C 1:21.) Fundamentally, this is to be accomplished by an awakening of the spirit within man to recognize the truth as taught in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Without the true knowledge of the Godhead, consisting of the Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, it is impossible to come to the faith that saves mankind. (John 17:3; I Cor. 2:14.) Class Discussion: How does the true knowledge of the members of the Godhead and of other restored teachings kindle faith in you as a Latterday Saint? Elder Orson F. Whitney eloquently expresses an answer to this question, using Latter-day Saint pioneers as an example: There is no more eloquent preaching than when men and women will forsake their native land, their homes, their parents, their children, their material possessions—every earthly thing, and cross the stormy ocean, the heated plains, the frosty mountains, many of them laying down their lives, to be buried in lonely graves by the wayside; pulling hand carts, wading rivers, crossing deserts, climbing mountains, and settling in a barren waste—all for what. Was 618 it for gold and silver, houses and land, flocks and herds, and the betterment of their temporal condition? Was it for the honors of men and the applause of the world that they did these things? No, it was because they loved God and wanted to build His kingdom. They had heard the voice of the Shepherd; they were His sheep, and a stranger they would not follow. [John 10:1-5] There is no more eloquent preaching of the gospel than is found in their toils and privations, in their struggles and achievements (Conference Report, April 1915, page 101). Class Discussion: How do faith and love for Christ encourage one to be righteous? If you are a convert, relate the power that faith in Christ had on your conversion. If you were born under the covenant, relate how faith in Christ has helped you overcome temptations contrary to Church principles. (It might be the Word of Wisdom, speaking evil of others, etc.) In last month's lesson we learned several reasons why we should worship Jesus Christ as the Son of God. What further knowledge is available to you in the modern revelations to increase faith in Christ and to give meaning to the earth-life? JESUS THE FIRSTBORN Jesus Christ is proclaimed by the prophets, ancient and modern, as the literal Son of God in the spirit and, also, in the flesh. Jesus is the Firstborn of all the spirit sons and daughters of God. And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn (D&C 93:21; see also Col. 1:15). Because he was the Firstborn, we know the Savior as our Elder Brother. The First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve Apostles, on June 30, 1916, expressed a word of caution to the members of the Church concerning the status of the Redeemer and our relationship to him as our Brother. It is as follows: There is no impropriety, therefore, in speaking of Jesus Christ as the Elder Brother of the rest of human kind. That He is by spiritual birth Brother to the rest of us is indicated in Hebrews: "Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliations for the sins of the people." (Hebrews 2:17.) Let it not be forgotten, however, that He is essentially greater than any and all others, by reason (1) of His seniority as the oldest or firstborn; (2) of His unique status in the flesh as the offspring of a mortal mother and of an immortal, or resurrected and glorified, Father; (3) of His selection and foreordination as the one and only Redeemer and Savior of the race; and (4) of His transcendent sinlessness (Talmage, James E.: The Articles of Faith, pages 472-473). In order that none might be mistaken in his understanding of the relationship of Jesus to us mortals, The First Presidency continued: Jesus Christ is not the Father of the spirits who have taken or yet shall take bodies upon this earth, for He is one of them. He is The Son, as they are sons or daughters of Elohim (Ibid., p. 473). The important truth is given that only through Jesus Christ may one be a partaker of the glories of the eternities. The expression "through Jesus Christ" is significant in its meaning, for to understand this, is the key to eternal life. One must be begotten through him. (D&C 93:22.) To LESSON DEPARTMENT be born of Christ, is this sense of begetting which is to accept him literally as one's Savior and follow him devotedly. (Mosiah 27: 23-27.) This acceptance must be total, unqualified, as stated in the following by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.: Jesus is the Messiah, he is the Savior of the world. Through his atoning blood, his sufferings, his death and his resurrection, we may become perfect beings, and in no other way and by no other means. That is the great truth which permeates everything which God has said to his children on this earth. Without that we would be as dead bodies and dead spirits, shut off from true salvation, from exaltation, from eternal progression, the great new truth of modern revelation. We must never forget that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. There is no escape from this.. Turn, twist, philosophize, mass sophistries as we will, this truth remains (Conference Report, April 1934, page 93). YE WERE IN THE BEGINNING In Section 93, there are two verses that reveal a doctrine which has tremendous meaning for Latter-day Saints. They are: Ye were also in the beginning with the Father.... Man was also in the beginning with God (Verses 23, 29). In this message about man, an entire vista of information is revealed. The written information about man's pre-earth life is found in the Pearl of Great Price. (Abraham 3:22-23; Moses 3:5.) Upon the basis of the modern scriptures, the prophets of this dispensation have provided sufficient information about preearth life to clarify its principles and implications for the earthlife. 


 Basic to an understanding of the plan of salvation is man's relationship to God. Concerning man, we learn that he is a dual being consisting of a physical body and a spirit entity. (D&C 88:15.) Paul the apostle taught that we are the offspring of God. (Acts 17:27-28.) Old Testament prophets referred to the relationship of man and God by saying that he is '"'the God of the spirits of all flesh'? (Numbers 16:22; see also 27:16). The writer of Hebrews speaks of the "Father of spirits'? (Hebrews 12: 9). Class Discussion: Why is the doctrine of the Fatherhood of God important to you? (1) The highest measure of salvation, exaltation or godhood, is possible because of the divine birth which man received as the Father's child—the child may attain the heights of the Father; (2) the concern for the well-being of the child by earthly parents is many times magnified with our Heavenly Father; (3) greater meaning is attached to prayer and the assurance of its being answered; (4) knowing the Father's plan and the meaning of life's experiences, give us security. MAN'S CREATION Man's origin is clarified in the following statement by the First Presidency, composed of Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund: Adam, our great progenitor, "the first man," was, like Christ, a preexistent spirit, and like Christ he took upon him an appropriate body, the body of a man, and so became a "living soul." The doctrine of the preexistence, — revealed so plainly, par- 620 ticularly in the latter-days, pours a wonderful flood of light upon the otherwise mysterious problem of man's origin. It shows that man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father, prior to coming upon the earth in a temporal body to undergo an experience in mortality. It teaches that all men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh, and that all who have inhabited the earth since Adam have taken bodies and become souls in like manner. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, basing its belief on divine revelation, ancient and modern, proclaims man to be the direct and lineal offspring of Deity ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, XIII, pp. 80-81). MAN'S SPIRIT The spirit of man is in the likeness of his earthly body. In an explanation concerning a passage of scripture, the Lord revealed to the Prophet that "the spirit of man [is] in the likeness of his person" (D&C 77:2). The fact that the body conforms to the pre-existent spirit is also made known in The Book of Mormon. It should be understood, however, that certain disfigurements of the flesh in mortality would not be inherited from the spirit. In a wonderful revelation to the brother of Jared, whose faith permitted him to behold the preexistent Jesus Christ, the Son of God said: Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ.... Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image. Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear I unto my people in the flesh (Ether 3:14-16). MAN IS ETERNAL We have learned that man was in the beginning with God. Latter-day Saint theology also teaches that man is eternal. If there was a beginning to man in spirit form, and man is eternal, without beginning or end, then, how is this possible? The spirit form of man had a beginning, but not as to conscious existence. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught, in this manner, the truth that man is eternal: I have another subject to dwell upon, which is calculated to exalt man the soul—the mind of man— the immortal spirit. Where did it come from? All learned men and doctors of divinity say that God created it in the beginning; but it is not so: the very idea lessens man in my estimation. I do not believe the doctrine; I know better. Hear it, all ye ends of the world; for God has told me so; and if you don't believe me, it will not make the truth without effect. We say. That God himself is a selfexistent being.... Man does exist upon the same principles.... The mind or the intelligence which man possesses is co-equal (co-eternal) with God himself. I am dwelling on the immortality of the spirit of man. Is it logical to say that the intelligence of spirits is immortal, and yet that it has a beginning? The intelligence of spirits had no beginning, neither will it have an end. There never was a time when there were not spirits; for they are co-equal (co-eternal) with our Father in heaven (DHC VI:310-311). From what source did _ the Prophet receive his information on the eternal nature of man? From the same source—revelation—that Abraham received his knowledge of man's eternity. (Abraham 3:17-18.) Section 93 points out that, LESSON DEPARTMENT. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be.... For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and the spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy (verses 29, 33, 34). These passages suggest the same idea expressed by the Prophet when he used the expression "the intelligence of spirits" in the above quotation; that is, the spirit of man consists of spirit and intelligence, the uncreatable substance. Also President Joseph Fielding Smith of The First Presidency once wrote this observation concerning intelligence and spirit: Some of our writers have endeavored to explain what an intelligence is, but to do so is futile, for we have never been given any insight into this matter beyond what the Lord has fragmentarily revealed. We know, however, that there is something called intelligence which always existed. It is the real eternal part of man, which was not created or made. This intelligence combined with the spirit constitutes a spiritual identity or individual. The spirit of man, then, is a combination of the intelligence and the spirit which is an entity begotten of God (The Progress of Man, page 11). FOREORDINATION Without the knowledge of the pre-earth life, Latter-day Saints would be unable to understand many phases of this life. One's place in the eternal plan is better known. Because of planning in the councils in the heavens before the foundation of the earth was laid, chance is ruled out of coming to this life. (Moses 4:1-4.) To realize that while in this life one is fulfilling a purpose, holds 


 tremendous value in_ shaping one's life. Class Discussion: Discuss what foreordination and the knowledge of pre-existence mean to you as an individual. The life in the premortal world has conditioned us in this life. Elder James E. Talmage wrote: In the antemortal eternities we developed with individual differences and varied capacities. So far as we can peer into the past by the aid of revealed light we see that there was always gradation of intelligence, and consequently of ability, among the spirits, precisely as such differences exist amongst us mortals Every spirit born in the flesh is an individual character, and brings to the body prepared for its tenancy a nature all its own. The tendencies, likes and dislikes, in short the whole disposition of the spirit may be intensified or changed by the course of mortal life, and the spirit may advance or retrograde while allied with its mortal tabernacle.... The spirit lived as an organized intelligence before it became the embodied child of human parents; and its preexistent individualism will be of effect in its period of earth life. Even though the manifestations of primeval personality be largely smothered under the tendencies due _ to bodily and prenatal influence, it is there, and makes its mark. This is in analogy with the recognized laws of physical operation—every force acting upon a body produces its definite effect whether it acts alone or with other and even opposing forces (The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 edition, page 232). There were among the spirit children of our Father many who had excelled in that world. One who was recognized as among his "rulers" was Abraham. (Abraham 3:23.) Others who were foreordained to positions of respon- 622 sibility in this life were: Adam (2 Nephi 2:22-26); Jeremiah (Jer. 1:4-5); John the Revelator (1 Nephi 14:18-27); and Joseph Smith (2 Nephi 3:14-15; D&C 124:1). Our Father's knowledge about these servants and all of his children was such that he could "'see the end of their earthly career even from the first" (The Articles of Faith, page 191). Elder James E. Talmage also stated that, "Everyone of us was known by name and character to the Father, who is 'the God of the spirits of all flesh' (Numbers 16:22; 27:16), in our antemortal or primeval childhood; and from among the hosts of his unembodied children God chose for special service on earth such as were best suited to the accomplishment of His purposes" (The Vitality of Mormonism, page 229). The foreknowledge of God does not hold that people are designated for glory or condemnation or demerit. Elder Talmage wrote that "God's knowledge of spiritual and of human nature enables Him to conclude with certainty as to the actions of any of His children under given conditions; yet that knowledge is not of compelling force upon the creature" (The Articles of Faith, page 191). We are thus able to see that the Lord is directing the affairs of men not only in religious events but also in other areas of the earth life. The Prophet Joseph Smith once said: Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the Grand Council of heaven before the world was (DHC, VI:364). The mission of Columbus was foreknown. (I Nephi 13:12.) The Lord also raised up men to write the Constitution of the United States. (D&C 101: 79-80.) It will be remembered that unto Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob (Israel) the promise was given that their posterity would have special privileges in holding the Priesthood and being custodians of the gospel through the ages. These values and others afford Latter-day Saints considerable advantage in understanding not only their own place in this life but also the Lord's purposes for all men. The doctrine of premortality sheds a flood of light upon many questions which confront us in life. SUMMARY We have learned that in a "Christian" world that has generally departed from faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, modern revelation has given Latter-day Saints the following concepts: (1) Christ is the literal Son of LESSON DEPARTMENT God in the spirit and in the flesh; (2) Christ was the Firstborn of all the spirit sons of God; (3) all men lived before birth into this life; (4) man is eternal as to his nature because of the uncreatable intelligence which is a part of his spirit entity. Many benefits are received by man in this life by knowing of this relationship to God. The knowledge of this relationship provides the Latter-day Saint with the motivation to become exalted in the celestial kingdom. To attain this blessing demands full obedience. And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things (D&C 93:27-28). FOR CONSIDERATION Consider thoughtfully your conviction that one can do whatever one is called to do in the Church, if one has sufficient faith in the Lord. Relate this to the principle of foreordination.