[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 562 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

I want to express my appreciation for the spiritual uplift that I receive from The Relief Society Magazine. I teach home economics and use the ideas for projects and crafts in my classes. We are still permitted to have devotions in our school. I always use the visiting teacher message when it is my turn to present devotion to the student body. There are always compliments on our devotion, and I tell the students and faculty ''That was Mormon devotions" taken from The Relief Society Magazine. I am the only member of the faculty, and the only member of my family who has joined the Church. Julia R. Clark Tracy City, Tennessee We sisters of the Chandler Spanish Branch want to take this opportunity to express our gratitude for the privilege of having The Relief Society Magazine translated into the Spanish language. We feel it is another great milestone for the Spanish-speaking people. Mrs. Marva B. Tarwater President, Spanish Branch Chandler, Arizona The first prize-winning story 'For Barbara, With Love"' (by Evelyn Elizabeth Vesterfelt, January 1966) was very good. I think I have never read a story on conversion that was handled so tactfully—for, of course, the conversion was the theme of the story. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah I want you to know how much I enjoyed the beautiful frontispiece poem of the May issue ''Place of Prayer,'' by Marilyn McMeen Miller. It is so inspirational, and being accompanied by those lovely photographs makes the poem all the more effective. Mrs. Peter Hansen Tempe, Arizona 562 hom Near aul Str On page 363 of the lovely May is appears a very choice article "A Pod Full of Peas,'"' by Helen Hinckley Jones. Helen and I were in school togett at Weber High in Ogden, Utah. It inspirational and interesting artic which appear in every issue of Magazine make it a ''must" in ou home. Dr. Russell B. F Provo, Ut I would like to state that the st "To Barbara, With Love'' (First Story, January 1966) is one of most wonderful stories I have read. Sister Vesterfelt has done a derful work in composing that sto was telling one of the young missic aries about it, and he borrowed copy to read. The Relief Society azine is one of the very best inv ments I ever made. Mrs. Alverna Manning Al West Panama City Beach, Flo I very much enjoyed reading the sto "That Certain Sparkle' (April 1966) by Frances Carter Yost who is my cousin. My daughter is fast becomi acquainted with the stories and recip in the Magazine. I feel that the tents of the Magazine can fill a gre need in her life, as well as in t lives of other young people who will be the homemakers of tomorrow. Beverly H. Isr Salt Lake Citv. U I must write and tell you the enjoy I have received from the story " for the Wise'' (serial by Margery $ Stewart). Something from_ reality feel! Please, we must have more stc of this type by this author. Fay S. Pe Blackfoot, I the Relief Society weczzine
