[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Article by President Louise]

By President Louise Y. Robison
WE are very happy to meet with you this morning under such favorable conditions, to discuss problems of common interest. New Books: I should like to call your attention to some new books which are of special interest to Latter-day Saints. Brother George D. Pyper has just published a volume entitled The Story of Our Hymns, which presents in his delightful style the stories of our Latter-day Saint hymns. Sister Janet Bingham Dee of the Primary General Board has published a valuable and beautifully illustrated book, A Voice From The Dust, which presents the story and doctrine contained in the Book of Mormon in a form easily read. This publication should result in a greater understanding of the Book of Mormon. We unhesitatingly recommend both books to you. The Relief Society Song Book will soon be ready. It will be a handy, loose-leaf style so that when open it will lie perfectly flat. The words and music are photographic, making it very easily read. We are striving to keep the price of the book as low as possible. The stakes will be notified as soon as the book is ready. Last year some very excellent novels were used in our Literature course. The Deseret Book Company still has a number of these books on hand, which can be purchased at a nominal price. We suggest them as very appropriate Christmas gifts. Pre-natal Care: There are still women in our Society who do not know where to obtain information on pre-natal care. Splendid material may be secured by writing to your state board of health. Stake presidents kindly notify the sisters. Child Health: We have a great
772 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
responsibility in safeguarding the health of our children.
Children with weak bodies grow up greatly handicapped. In a school district within one hundred miles of Salt Lake City, an examination of 338 pre-school children revealed only 78 with teeth in normal condition? these, of course, were baby teeth. An examination of 476 sixth-grade children?an eleven-year-old group with permanent teeth?revealed only 60 with teeth in good condition. The other day I heard of a man who earns $180 per month. An examination of the teeth of his five children revealed that each child had more than five cavities. The proper care of children's teeth may well be a project for Relief Society.
This does not mean we are to pay for the dental care of all children, but rather that we impress mothers with the importance of good teeth and stimulate them to make use of the opportunities available to have teeth examined and properly cared for. Of course, there are families in the Church who have difficulty in supplying the basic necessities of life for children, and for this reason teeth are neglected. In such cases, tide them over. Let them feel it is their responsibility as far as possible to carry the expense of corrective work, but arrange for them to pay a little down and meet the balance as they best can.
Where families positively cannot meet the expense themselves and where the ward and stake are unable to do so, call on the General Board.
This problem is of sufficient importance to attract community interest. I believe there are doctors, city and county commissioners, and other groups who would aid in this important welfare program.
Children must not go through life handicapped because of the small amount of money necessary to insure good teeth. Relief Society Funds and The Ward Budget: The Presiding Bishopric have instituted ward budgets throughout the Church. The Relief Society heartily approves of the principle of the budget. The budget plan has been clearly set forth in the August, 1939, issue of Progress of the Church, published by the Presiding Bishopric and sent to all bishops. We suggest that Relief Society presidents ask the bishops to permit them to read this. Due to the nature of Relief Society work, it is deemed advisable that there be certain modifications in the application of the budget plan with regard to Relief Society funds. The charity fund is not included in the budget.
This fund is created from collections received by the visiting teachers and is used only for the purpose indicated by its name.
Membership dues are not included; we believe that when women make the effort to pay their own annual dues they appreciate their membership more. The general fund, which is a contingent or operating fund of the Organization, has in the past been created by the industry of the women. It has been used for the purchase of textbooks, record books and miscellaneous things. Now, in wards operating on the budget plan, the general fund may be allowed Relief Society from the ward budget, just as other auxiliaries receive their operating fund. To determine the amount necessary, we recommend
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 773
that expenses incurred during the past three years be averaged and the amount of this average be requested of the bishop when the ward budget is set up. Do not draw on the bishopric for any more than is absolutely necessary. If you have available funds, use these before drawing on the ward budget.
These rulings may change in the future, but for the present this is our plan.
Even though a ward is on a budget, we can see no reason why Relief Society should not hold a bazaar to display useful handmade articles and to encourage people to make beautiful things. We cannot see any possible objection to the sale of these articles, but there should be no admission fee charged. We trust Relief Society will do everything within its power to aid the bishop in making the budget plan succeed. Relief Society Singing Mothers: The question has been asked whether the Relief Society Singing Mothers from all over the Church will again be invited to sing at April Conference, 1940. The plan now is to concentrate efforts on a glorious centennial in 1942. So we ask the Singing Mothers to perfect themselves and sing in the stakes and wards, but the Augmented Chorus will not be assembled again until 1942. We hope that by next April we will be prepared to announce the details of the program for our hundredth anniversary. Family Relations: Sound family relationships are of vital importance. The course "Education for Family Life" has been introduced into the Relief Society program to help young mothers better understand and meet the problems of family life. Magazine Drive: We are delighted with the work of our Magazine representatives.
Most of the stakes are now engaged in the Drive and excellent results are being obtained. Do not feel that people are too poor to subscribe; those who have the least money are in many cases our most faithful subscribers. Class Leaders: Before calling any person to a position in Relief Society, in either ward or stake capacity, advise her of the full requirements of the position.
Attendance of class leaders at Union meeting is almost a necessity.
There may occasionally be a woman who is able to render fine service to Relief Society and thus tie herself to the Church, yet, because of being in school or at business, is unable to attend Union meeting.
Such cases, however, are rare.
Before asking women to accept positions, ask them if they have time to attend Union meeting. Church Beautification: Church beautification, and that also includes home beautification, can be carried out better with the women interested than in any other way.
Encourage the sisters to plant gardens, shrubs and trees. A fine practice is to plant a tree in honor of a birthday or some other important event. I heard an Idaho man say that the thing which made him want to go back to his home in the East was a great big oak tree that had been planted in his honor when he was born.
That tree tied him to the East even more than did the people.
There is sentiment in tree planting.
Encourage the sisters to see that ward chapels are kept clean, that
774 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
children are taught not to throw papers and other things about meeting house grounds. Nutrition: The following question has been asked: "Is the nutrition class, held on Work and Business day, optional with the wards?" We refer you to the following ruling in the May, 1938, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, page 334: "The General Board suggests that the use of this material (nutrition) be optional in the wards and may be used in connection with the traditional activities of the day (work and business)." However, need should determine the advisability of having the course. If there is one woman in your ward who needs help, there is no question but that the class should be held. Raising Funds For New Chapels: Help the bishops all you can, but it is not the ward Relief Society president's responsibility to raise funds for new chapels. Mormon Handicraft: Mormon Handicraft sales have increased at least one-third this year. We appreciate the cooperation of the local sisters as well as the fine support of the advisory committee.
Articles received have been of higher standard ?fewer have been returned. We still need inexpensive articles but well made and attractive. We are still overstocked with some articles, so please write to us before the women go to the expense of making expensive things, such as bedspreads, and ascertain whether or not there is apt to be a sale for these articles.
Membership dues are from January to January and are $1 a year for the ward or for an individual membership of anyone not a member of the Relief Society.
Please check up and see if any of your women are depending upon the ward to take a membership. Literature Course: Due to present international trouble, it has been deemed advisable to change the third book in the Literature course. A new book will be substituted for the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.
While the Four Horsemen is a great novel, presenting a vivid picture of the horrors of war, we believe that a more cheerful book should be used.
Refreshments on Work and Business Day: We have found that some wards are going rather to the extreme in serving refreshments on Work and Business day.
Serve light refreshments occasionally; they make for sociability, and Work and Business day is the social day in Relief Society, but do not make this a burden. Visiting Teachers: The following new ruling has been made: When a reorganization of Relief Society takes place in the ward, all visiting teachers are to be released when the president is released. In many wards the great number of inactive visiting teachers has become a burden. In reorganizing the visiting teachers, do not overlook any sister who has rendered good service. Be prayerful about making your new selections. In some way, try to honor those who have given faithful service over a long period of years. The question has been asked: Should non-members of the Church serve as visiting teachers?
Generally speaking, we say no.
There is, of course, an occasional exception. For example, in the mission field where
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 775
they are greatly handicapped for workers, we may find a woman who is genuinely converted but for some good reason has not yet joined the Church. This sister might reasonably be used. But in our wards, let us use Latter-day Saint women who understand the principles of the Gospel to bear the Relief Society message to the homes. We request that visiting teachers be not asked to sell books or tickets for any organization or cause, including Relief Society. We do not want them to act as Magazine agents when making their regular visits. We also request that they be not used as an advertising medium for any cause, unless it be some special Relief Society activity. The teachers may carry such an announcement, but do not have them go as solicitors. Visiting teachers are to go with a spiritual message for the purpose of uplifting the family.
First General Session
RELIEF SOCIETY WELFARE WORK