[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Article by William E. Ryberg]

By William E. Ryberg Member of Church Welfare Committee
I SINCERELY appreciate the honor of representing the Church Welfare Committee at this meeting. As long as I can remember, one of the most impressive things in my life, and one from which I received great inspiration, was the work of Relief Society as expressed in my own mother. I well remember that through the most depressing periods of our early life a consoling thing which seemed to hold our family together was the great confidence and the firm testimony of my mother in the truth of the church to which we belonged, and I am confident this testimony was largely influenced by her activities in Relief Society. When my mother approached her eightieth birthday, she was still in the service of Relief Society, still making her calls in the district allotted to her. I recognize that today I am speaking to a group of sisters to whom Church Welfare is not at all new. The fundamental principles of the Relief Society, as I understand them, are exactly the ideals which Church Welfare is attempting to put into actual practice. If there is anything new to Church Welfare, which the Relief Society does not understand, it can only be that their service has been augmented by the service of certain brethren who have been called to assist in solving the economic problems and the distress of those who are unfortunate in a period of time when conditions are too serious for any one unit of the Church to handle alone.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 769
Sister Robison has asked what the Relief Society can do, as a body, to further the plans of the Church Welfare Program. I am thoroughly convinced that without the assistance of Relief Society, the Church Welfare Program cannot be successfully consummated.
There is no organization in the Church which has the ability and which has had the experience in relief work that the Relief Society has had. The Relief Society does not only hold and maintain the admiration, respect, love and esteem of members of the Church, but throughout the world the influence of this organization is known. Therefore, there is no question in my mind but that the ultimate success of the Church Welfare Program will be measured in terms of the amount of activity into which the leaders of the Church bring the Relief Society. A very important factor in the success of the Program, and one, I believe, that lies directly within the hands of the members of the Relief Society, is the influence of women. If we were to analyze the underlying reasons for the success of men who have contributed to the world in the fields of science, literature, social service, or any phase of public life, we would find somewhere the inspiration of a splendid woman. In the totalitarian or dictatorship countries, the influence of womanhood is not present, while in the democracies, the place of women in the affairs of the state is almost equal to that of men. Men should recognize the influence for good exerted by women. I believe the Relief Society can influence the brethren to fulfill their obligations as members of the Priesthood.
There are many of us who are willing to accept high positions of honor and responsibility in the Church without accepting the actual work and effort which go with these honors. A man who accepts a position of responsibility and honor and who does not fulfill the obligations of that honor is not only unfaithful to the Church but is unfaithful to that woman whom he admires most and also to himself. One of our first considerations should be the temporal welfare of our less fortunate brethren. I do not think it is quite consistent for our Church to pose as the spiritual savior of mankind if it cannot, here in this world, help in the temporal salvation of the less fortunate. Remember, sisters, there is no other place in all the world which is as blessed as is our own country. We should be grateful that we live in a country which is so blessed. The majority of Church members are not more than three generations away from the war-torn European countries, and the Gospel message is the thing that brought our grandparents here. Is it then too much that you sisters use your influence to help the brethren appreciate the blessings and recognize the obligations which are theirs as members of this Church? Before I close, I want to answer two other questions that were propounded to me: What can the Relief Society do in furnishing supplies from the efforts of their own auxiliary organization for the Church Welfare Program, and how may credits be received? In the first instance, the Relief Society presidency of any ward should contact the bishop and dis-
770 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
cuss with him first of all what articles are required in that particular ward, or what that particular ward might profitably contribute to the stake, and from the stake to the region. If the Relief Society in that ward has surplus commodities of any type, which are also surplus in the stake, there is no reason why these cannot be contributed to the region.
There is no reason why that particular Relief Society cannot receive credit for that contribution, and there is no reason why they should not draw from the region other needed articles up to the amount of the credit. The other question is: How can Relief Society develop new projects in their own local ward units, and from what source can the money be obtained? The Relief Society stake president knows, or should know, the things which are surplus in the region, and the things which the region is in need of. In the event a program is developed in a stake or ward to supply these shortages, the funds naturally come from the bishop. The bishop can in turn take his funds from the fast offerings. In the event the fast offerings in his ward are not sufficient for this purpose, he has the right to request funds from the stake fast offerings. In the event the fast offerings from the stake are not sufficient, he has the right to request funds from the region. I think it is purely within the right of the president of a local unit to inform her bishop if she knows of any worthy members of the Church within her ward who are suffering. I think if the Bishop does not respond after the information is given to him, she should report the condition to her stake president. If it is not then corrected, the stake president should report it to a higher source. It is not human, it is inhuman, to allow people to suffer, and I think it is definitely the responsibility of the Relief Society to see that no such conditions occur. The following statement was made to me at the close of a certain meeting: "Brother Ryberg, I know that I can get assistance from the ward if I only dared ask, but I would rather be put against a wall and shot than to go through the humiliation that I would have to go through in order to get that assistance. My business would immediately become the business of the entire ward."
That is tragic, sisters, and I have enough confidence in the rank and file of the Relief Society to believe that such situations exist only in a minority of cases.
When a member of the Church comes to any person with authority in the Church and confesses the problems which are bearing him down, the information given is confidential, and the person who gives it has the right to expect that it will be kept in strictest confidence. The question has been asked: What part does the Relief Society play with reference to the Priesthood? Every Friday morning the General Committee meets with the First Presidency, a representative of the Presiding Bishopric, a representative of the Council of the Twelve, a representative of the First Council of Seventy, and a representative of the General Board of Relief Society. No step is taken in the Church Welfare Program, as related to the Relief
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 771
Society, without the General Board first being consulted. Now that should hold true throughout the entire Program. There is a definite place for the Relief Society in the ward set-up, in the stake set-up, and in the regional set-up. If the First Presidency, the Presiding Bishopric, the Council of the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy and the General Committee feel that the advice and counsel of the sisters of the General Board is necessary, surely the ward units and stake units should recognize that fact in their deliberations. If there is any place in a ward, stake or region in the Church where this is being overlooked, I am of the opinion that the Church Welfare Program is not particularly successful. In the event this condition exists in your stake or ward, you sisters holding responsible positions should report it to your stake president, and failing there, to your general officers. When it is reported to them, I am sure they will report it at the council meeting on Friday morning. I am happy to have been with you this morning, and have attempted to explain some things which seem to have been in question.
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS