[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference]

Relief Society Conference. We are proud, with you, of the Singing Mothers. The National Federation of Music Clubs is better and stronger because of the membership maintained in it by the Singing Mothers of the Relief Society. America's foundations were laid 332 years ago?quite recently in contrast to those of Europe, and along very different lines. In a country which has carried forward the greatest and the most successful experiment in democracy which the world has known to date, it is important to preserve our freedom of musical expression along with our freedom of speech and religion. The music of the United States should be a democratic music, and music should be used as a means of building and msuring the freedom of American institutions.
Through music we can do much to integrate nationalities within our country, working toward the ideal of developing life so that it will include a pattern of peace, of brotherhood, of harmony and understanding, of sympathy, of nobleness with reference to humanity as our keynote.
Music has a greater mission than to merely create a friendly reaction among individuals, or furnish entertainment; it can be a great influence for good in the world, because people who are engaged in cultural development have no time for evil planning. In these days of misunderstanding and friction, we pray for the peaceful influence of the gospel of music, that nations and neighbors may be interpreted to each other.
Weare not a singing nation. We would be a more confident nation if we sang together. The organization which I represent, the National Federation of Music Clubs, has functioned for over forty-one years in making Ametica more musical. Our members?men and women, boys and gitls?in their club life have accomplished a record of which we are. Proud. We work with children, and last year we had over eight thousand participate in our contests. We support young artists, giving them engagements. We inspire the composer and recognize compositions of value. We create scholarship funds for the underprivileged, talented RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 779 child. In 47 countries, through our international music clubs, the compositions of American composers have been presented. We have established a MacDowell Fellowship for the use of the American composer. We are collecting music and sending it to stricken China. We are going to a conference called by the Secretary of State in the interest of maintaining happy and friendly relations between the Americas. We know of the interpretative powers of music between nations; we are at this time emphasizing sending music abroad.
Last week we sent a large supply of music to Belgium, Sweden and Scotland. May our foundations in the United States be strengthened by a high purpose for the support of all things good! ADDRESS;