[Vol26 | November 1939 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: The Messages And Their Use]

THE MESSAGES AND THEIR USE
By Leda T. Jensen ONE very definite part of the mision of the visiting teacher today is to carry the Gospel by precept and example into the homes of our people. The name "visiting teacher" implies that we do something about teaching, about stimulating those whom we visit to better thoughts and ultimately to better ways of life. The "Messages to the Home" have been prepared for this special reason, to provide a definite thought which would stimulate profitable discussion during the visit of the teacher in the home. The Messages are of a spititual nature and are correlated with the theology lessons. The titles of the subjects for this season are found in the June, 19309, issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The subjects selected contain the very essence of true religion. 'They are practical rules of conduct, which should be brought frequently to the minds of the women of the'Church.
Religion is the most vital force in life to keep people living on a higher plane. The teaching program of the Church is very extensive, but there are many baptized members of the Church who do not avail themselves of any of the avenues of learning that are opened freely to them.
Should not some effort be made to take the Gospel to them if they will not come and partake?
Visiting teachers have access to many homes denied all others. 'The teaching in the homes will be informal, but the best results have often been found where individual teaching is possible. If the Messages are not being carried to the homes in the wards and are not being discussed in a creditable manner, renewed effort in the stakes is necessary. In order to establish a friendly relationship in the home, a prerequisite to successful teaching, and to know what approach to use to the lesson, it is necessary to know the families in the district.
Visiting teachers should. Be interested in them, in their interests, and in what they are doing, so they will have a common ground on which to meet. One meets several types of women in visiting the homes.
Each will have to be approached in a different way.
What appeals to one type probably will not appeal to another. The faithful, the busy, the indifferent, the haughty person?each will have to be studied and wisely approached.
Move slowly but persistently. Don't be too easily offended or think too much of being inconvenienced. Remember, "Ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength."
Make your preparation meeting held the first Tuesday of each month a teacher-training meeting. Don't use the time to embellish the material in the Magazine.
There is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 757 sufficient material there for the length of discussion advisable in the home.
Instead of devoting too much time to the what of the message, more time should be given to the use of it. How to present the topic, difficulties encountered and successful visits made would be of practical assistance to the teachers.
Make the teachers' preparation meeting so interesting none can afford to miss it. Theology Department Annie Wells Cannon, Chairman PAUL THE APOSTLE TO THE GENTILES By Dr. Lowell L. Bennion HEN first asked to speak to you on the subject "Paul the Apostle to the Gentiles", I was very disappointed, because I did not feel authoritative in connection with the life of Paul; second, I thought of so many things that I would rather talk with the Relief Society group about than the missionary work of Paul. However, after some reflection I was very glad that such a topic had been assigned to me, for I found so much in the life of Paul that is closely related to the spirit of Relief Society work. I became aware of the difficult problem of selecting from many things one or two that we might discuss together. Of all the people in our Church, and I say it without reservation, I believe the Relief Society sisters are most whole-heartedly devoted to the service of the Master, Jesus Christ. I think that Relief Society sisters are preparing themselves intelligently through a fine program to be able and worthy messengers of the Master.
Where in the world will you go to find a life and soul devoted more whole-heartedly first, last and always to Jesus Christ, greater love in the service of Jesus Christ, than that of the Apostle Paul?
Where will you go to find a person better prepared to fulfil his mission as a disciple of the Lord, than was Paul?
Paul was a Jew; yes, a member of the strictest sect of the Jews ? a Pharisee. He was schooled in the law of Moses. Yet, Paul was more than a Jew; he had more than a Jewish background.
Paul was also a Roman; he had the rights of Roman citizenship; he had the Roman view of an eternal empire; he had the Roman concept of a universal kingdom.
More than that, Paul was reared in Tarsus, in a great gentile city of Greek learning; therefore, Paul took into the ministry of Christ an understanding of the Gentiles. In Paul, we have this great Hebrew faith, moral courage and earnestness coupled with his vision of the work of God and an understanding of the people to whom he went to give his message. We could well take some time this morning talking about Paul as a teacher. Let me illustrate with one example, You recall the time that 758 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Paul was at Athens; Paul, a man engrossed in the Jewish faith, who had faith in the Jewish God, a personal, living God, trying to teach pagans who had no such concept of God; trying to teach people who believed in many gods, or in abstract definitions of God; trying to reveal to them the true and living God. How was he to do it? He might have simply explained the Jewish God to them. He might have been so engrossed in his own understanding that he would forget the position of the people to whom he spoke; but very wisely and cleverly Paul spoke to his people on the level of experience and understanding at which he found them. May I quote a few verses, to my mind among the most beautiful in Scripture: "Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and said, Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious. "For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this" inscription, To the Unknown God.
Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you. "God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands; "Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed any thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things; "And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times appointed, and the bounds of their habitation; "That they should seck the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us: "For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also his offspring. ''Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven by art and man's device," ?Acts 17:22-29. He did not offend the Athenians in that statement, he talked about their unknown God and made them understand the unknown God as a knowable God, a living God. We might well spend our time this morning talking about Paul's great work as a missionary to the Gentiles. Paul's task was not merely to convert the Gentile world, he had also to convert his fellow disciples to some aspects of the mission of Jesus.
Peter and the other disciples who lived in Palestine, and had lived there all their lives, found it ~ difficult to enlarge their vision greatly beyond the scope of the Jewish religion. In the beginning, it seems, they wished to make converts to Christianity first become Jews. In other words, Christianity was to be a Jewish sect.
Christianity was to those disciples in Jerusalem, to many of them it seems, nothing more than Judaism plus the resurrection of Christ. To Paul, it was entirely new?a new religion, a new and universal church that included Judaism but was much more.
Paul told Peter and the other disciples in Jerusalem that the Gentiles need not become Jews in order to become Christians. Had Paul not had that vision and understanding it is doubtful if Christianity would have become the great universal religion that it did become. I know the Lord may have found other ways, but the fact is, He found it through Paul. We should be grateful to Paul for his great understanding of Christianity. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 759 I WOULD like to spend the rest of the time this morning, not in talking about Paul as a great teacher and not in speaking of him as a missionary to the Gentiles, but in talking about Paul, the apostle to the Gentiles, and his meaning in our lives today and to our work as messengers and disciples of Jesus Christ. In the mission field we teach our converts the first principles of the Gospel. We will not baptize anyone unless he exercises faith and repents of those things which are not in harmony with the Gospel, unless he is willing to be baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. I think that we, as members and workers in the Church often forget that these pre-requisites to entrance to the Church are not merely for the investigator. Faith, repentance, baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost are not just things which precede one's entrance into the Church of Christ; faith, repentance, baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost are the very foundation of our lives as Latter-day Saints.
These four principles or ordinances of the Gospel are not dead events in our remote past.
Most of us were baptized at the age of eight, and since that time baptism has not always meant a great deal to us.
Faith and repentance we think of as preceding baptism, so they sometimes almost vanish from the picture of adulthood.
Paul has brought home to me the fact that faith, repentance, baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost, each one of them, can continue as living principles throughout our lives; they receive increased meaning and significance as we grow older. I am going to illustrate the meaning that Paul put into these first principles of the Gospel. Is faith the first principle of the Gospel?
Paul had faith before he was baptized into the church, before he had his vision on the road to Damascus. He had faith in the law of Moses, in the words of the prophets; he had faith even that the thing he was doing in persecuting the Christians was the will of God. The first principle of the Gospel is not merely faith. As our fourth Article of Faith states: "We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ;" if any great teacher of religion or any prophet has brought home to us the fact that the first principle of the Gospel is faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, it is certainly Paul.
Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ became to him something quite different from the faith which he had before. Previously Paul had tried to obey the law of Moses; he had struggled with his consciousness of sin. He had come to realize that no one can completely fulfil the Law, and especially that intricate law of Moses; but when he caught the spirit of Christ he became a new creaiure, he became free from sin, he rose above law. Paul's faith became a glorified faith in Christ. He said this of his relationship to Jesus: "For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, "Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord."?-Romans 8:38-39. We need faith today?whether we 760 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be eight years of age, twenty, thirty, forty or fifty?faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, faith in everything that Jesus Christ stands for in this world of ours. We need to use faith in the principles of love, mercy, forgiveness, integrity and unselfishness.
Your very work as Relief Society workers is to exercise faith in these basic principles which we associate with the life of Christ.
Although we associate faith with Paul, I think he reveals to us also the meaning of repentance in a very complete way. The first step in repentance, I believe, is not a feeling of remorse and regret, and I give you Paul's life as an example of the beginning of repentance. On the way to Damascus, seeking to get permission to persecute Christians, Paul had a vision. He saw a light and heard a voice which said: "Saul, Saul, why persecutcst thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest."
That was the beginning of Paul's repentance. He saw a light, he got a new conception of truth and right, and in the light of that new truth his way of living seemed wrong, and Paul repented. The first step in repentance, I believe, is a new conception of truth and right ? increased knowledge. The only people who have no need of repentance are those who cease to learn, who cease to enlarge their understanding of what the gospel of Jesus Christ means. As teachers, we do not get people to repent by telling them to repent. I believe that people will repent when we show them a' better way of life, a greater truth, in the light of which they will be ashamed of their own way of living as Paul was ashamed of his. Not only did Paul reveal this first important step in repentance but also the completion of it, for the last step in repentance is to right the wrong that one has done? to substitute right living for wrong living, to overcome evil with good.
Where do we have a better record of a man who devoted the rest of his life, and gave his life, to make good the wrong he had done against the works of Jesus Christ? I am sure that Stephen who had been stoned with the consent of Paul was not stoned in vain, because of the repentance that Paul wrought. It may seem more difficult to think of baptism, the third principle of our Gospel, as a living principle such as that of repentance, but Paul reveals to us the meaning of baptism in a way that should make it live on in our everyday lives. In the very beginning, after he had had this vision on the road to Damascus, Paul humbled himself and went to one Ananias, a disciple of the Lord, and was baptized. We might think that Paul, having received a vision, haying been called of God as an apostle, would think that it would be unnecessary to humble himself in the waters of baptism, but the record says that he went and was baptized. It is Paul again who portrays to us the meaning of baptism when he compares it with the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We enter the waters of baptism as the old creature, the sinful but repentant creature, and come up washed and clean, a new creature in Jesus Christ. Not only is baptism a means of entering the Church and a way of gaining remission of sins, but baptism RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 761 is also a covenant. I am going to step ahead into modern revelation and read from the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 20, verse 37: "And again, by way of commandment to the church concerning the manner of baptism?All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his church." It is a pledge to accept Christ and be His disciple. Every Sunday we have the privilege of renewing that covenant in our Church services. Our sacramental prayer reveals the meaning of the sacrament as a renewal of the baptismal covenant. In that prayer it is written: "That they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them; that they may always have his Spirit to be with thein." Every Sunday, as we partake of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, if we will meditate upon the life of the Master, evaluate our own living in the light of His character and love, and have a desire to serve Him, I know that baptism will continue asa living principle of our lives.
After the Lord had said to Paul. "Tam Jesus whom thou persecutest," He continues: "But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee; "Delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee, "To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. "Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision."
Over the whole known world Paul declared this covenant that he himself had made with Christ, and his testimony was so strong that king Agrippa said unto Paul: "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Chistian, "And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds."
This illustrates Paul's loyalty to the baptismal covenant. On several occasions, Paul said he was unworthy to be a disciple of Jesus Christ; on other occasions, he said he had done more work than all the rest put together, which shows his great spirit of humility and yet his determination to not only repent but be loyal to the covenant he had made with his Lord. In relation to the fourth principle of the Gospel, the gift of the Holy Ghost, I think Paul reveals to us the great two-fold mission of the Holy Ghost.
First of all as a witness that God lives and Jesus Christ is indeed His Son, he writes: "But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. "For I neither received if of man nei ther was I taught it but by the revelation of Jesus Christ."??-Gal. 1:11-12. "Wherefore I give you to understand, 762 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost."?I Cor. 12:3.
Paul certainly received his knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ through the revelations of the Holy Ghost.
Paul certainly had complete conviction, absolute assurance that Jesus was indeed the Lord, the Son of God. No only that, but Paul wrote intimately about the gifts of the Holy Spirit. In conclusion, I am going to read to you the very familiar chapter in I Corinthians in which Paul talks about the gifts of the Holy Ghost: "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. "And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all know}- edge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. "And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. "Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, and is not puffed up, "Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; "Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; "Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. "Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. "For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. "But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. "When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things. "For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part but then shall I know even as I am known. "And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity."?-I Cor. 13. Sisters, may we exercise faith in the Lord Jesus Christ such as Paul exercised. May we recognize repentance as a living, continuing, growing principle of our lives. May we be true to the covenant that we made with Christ and our Father in Heaven through baptism, and may we, I pray God, enjoy the assurance enjoyed by Paul through the power of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus Christ is indeed the Son of God.
Growing out of that assurance, may we pursue the life of love and service which Paul pursued. THE ESTABLISHMENT OF TESTIMONY Edith P. Backman Former President South African Mission Relief Society HE established testimonies of those dear, faithful, pioneer women, numbering eighteen, who were the charter members of our Relief Society, have been handed down to us as a real inspiration, a true pattern to follow, and a challenge to carry on the great work which they began. The love, devotion, loyalty and untiring service shown by the wonderful leaders and members up to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 763 the present time is proof of their testimonies of the divinity of this work, and their testimonies have led them to great accomplishments. A testimony that God lives, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God is the most valuable possession one can have. Our testimony may be more firmly established by attending meetings, partaking of the sacrament and hearing the testimonies of others. We are told to meet together often in His name.
Even though the number may be few. His spirit may be there also.
Think of the blessings in store for those who are honest with God in paying tithes and offerings.
What a wonderful thing if we, as mothers, could instill the beauty of that principle into the hearts of our children.
Thousands of testimonies which we have heard are proof that the faithful tithe payer is blessed an hundredfold. A famed American scientist, after quietly studying and living among the Mormons for.
Three summer vacations, said he thought the Relief Society was the premier auxiliary organization in the Church because of its efficiency and effectiveness and the opportunity it offers its members to be of service.
Certainly we should take advantage of the opportunity it gives us for development and growth. We should give our best to the work we have been called to do.
Magnify it no matter how humble it may be; the Lord will give us more power to achieve in the various fields of our choice only when we have earnestly and diligently used the power we already have. He never calls on us to hold a position that He does not give us strength to carry on if we are faithful.
Being of service is the greatest means of bringing joy, happiness, satisfaction and contentment. "When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are in the service of your God." For more than one hundred years, our Church has been sending missionaries into the field to preach the Gospel?the most wonderful missionary system in the world.
Missionaries know, as Joseph Smith knew when he started the missionary system, that when the Holy Spirit bears testimony to the inmost soul of man, there is no danger of his being led away by other systems of adverse doctrine.
Such a testimony!
Four years ago last November we were called to go fifteen thousand miles away to preside over the South African Mission.
After making it a matter of prayer, my husband said, "I am going to tell President Grant we will go." We were given blessings and promised health, happiness and success, and that we would return home and find our loved ones well and happy. I thank my Heavenly Father and the Presidency of the Church for giving us the opportunity of going with our children into the mission field to partake of the heavenly spirit existing there. I know this is the true work of God, and nothing else in life matters. It is the only source of true joy and happiness. May our Heavenly Father help us all to appreciate every opportunity given us to be of service to Him, and may we live lives that will be worthy of His wonderful blessings.
Social Service Department Jennie B. Knight, Chairman
SOCIAL SERVICE GOES TO WORK