What Utah is Doing for the Blind Amy Whipple Evans "T was eighteen years old before I started to school," remarked one of the blind men whom I met at the work-shop for the blind, at Salt Lake City, when I was gathering material for this article. "It was not till my father visited the School for the Blind, in Ogden," he continued, "and told my mother what it would do. For me that she gave her consent for me to go there. I cannot begin to tell you what a wonderful difference it has made in my life, what a new world it has opened up for me." For one thing, the school taught him to appreciate music, both vocal and instrumental, and directed him toward music as a profession. Pupils there learn to read music, which is written in the Braille. They memorize their work and play well and accurately, and take a great deal of joy in it. There is a girls' chorus at the school now, composed of girls from fourteen to twenty. They sing well together. It is quite touching to see the great happiness music affords them. Without neglecting their other work, they perhaps get more pleasure from this than from any other study. The young man to whom I spoke started his musical education at this school, and he is now studying with a view to music as a profession. There, of course, he also learned to read and to enjoy literature. The reading lessons are very interesting. Reading is done by means of the Braille system, an invention of a blind Frenchman of that name. Several systems were developed from this first one, but recently the best features of them all have been. Combined into the one that is coming to be used all over the world, in which the new books for the blind are printed. It is a system of point reading. Heavy paper is perforated with an instrument that leaves points on the paper. The alphabet is represented by these points arranged in various positions. Reading can thus be learned by the sightless, as also can writing, more easily than by the earlier method of raised letters. I heard a fourteen-year-old girl reading Ben Hur aloud to a class, and she read as well as any girl of her age who can see. There is a library at the school, containing fifteen hundred volumes in Braille—fiction, history, and general literature— which are not only used by pupils of the institution but which are circulated among the adult blind throughout the state and the west, without cost even for postage. Among these books WHAT UTAH IS DOING FOR THE BLIND 117 thus printed are the Doctrine and Covenants and parts of the Book of Mormon. Like other institutions of a similar grade, the School For the Blind aims to give a general education. Arithmetic, geography, history, and other elementary 'subjects are taught by competent instructors. Several pupils, after completing the courses of study at the State school, attend higher institutions of learning. There is one each at the University of Utah, the B. Y. University, the Weber Normal, the Dixie Normal, and the Springville High School. These take an active part in their schools. One is the judge of the student-body court.. "Reading and writing in the Braille, studying the common branches of learning, taking notes in classes and transferring them to the typewriter, are good things to do," said our young friend, "but you get tired of just headwork, even if you are blind. The blind, like those who can see, want something to do!" And so the school provides some general activities. There is a scout organization for the boys, also a literary society. Mrs. Belle Salmon Ross has done. A splendid work in teaching reading and solo dancing at the school. Under her capable management the blind have given, in Ogden, evenings of. Reading, music, and dancing. To give those who are born blind an idea of what the world is like—which is very difficult under the most favorable conditions—models are used extensively, and pupils mould in clay. Basketry is also taught, and simple carpentry. Some of the boys are instructed in poultry raising. Last year three of the boys went into the business on a small scale; they sold eggs to the school at the market price, and thus cleared thirty dollars apiece. Among the most important things our blind friend took away with him from the State school was his memory of friendships gained there. These appear to be even more intimate and dear than with people who have their sight. Our friend spoke of this phase of his life with much feeling. "I am interested in every one who has ever been at the school," he said, "even those who are there now and whom I have never met." The boys and girls seem to be happy and contented, all unconscious of their affliction. They become like brothers and sisters in a large family. Their training has inspired them with self-confidence and a worthy ambition to become independent, as opposed to the pity-the-blind attitude of the past. It is lifting the blind out of the pauper class. Eighty per cent. Of the graduates of the Ogden school became self-supporting. Some of the pupils there are only partially blind; they cannot see well enough to read ordinary print. Thus the state very properly recognizes the right of the blind to the same educational 
 benefits as those who can see. An effort is made, though with increasing difficulty, to find positions for the graduates of the school. Some become salesmen, others music teachers and piano tuners, and still others enter business.. Three or four work in a Salt Lake candy factory, where they prove more skillful than others with sight at folding boxes. ' So much for the way in which the state endeavors to take care of the juvenile blind at its school, which is under the direction of Superintendent Frank R. Driggs. There are also organizations for the care of the adult blind. Some of these are provided by the state, others have been effected by private means. Mr. Murray Allen, who teaches at the Ogden school and who is himself without sight, is a traveling teacher of the blind. He spends his Saturdays and his summer vacations going about the country teaching the blind to read. The state pays him for this work. Last year he traveled five thousand miles. He tells me that many of the adult blind learn to read the Braille easily. Then there is a reading room for the blind in Salt Lake City, in the public library building. The blind are here taught to read the Braille and to use the typewriter if they wish. Those who cannot read are read to. A guide conducts the blind to and from the street cars. Music is furnished each day, except Saturday. Occasionally entertainments are given, and a general effort is made to cheer and comfort them. Every Christmas there is a Christmas program. This room, and half of the salary of the person in charge, are furnished by the city; the rest of the salary, together with money for incidental expense, are provided by the Ladies' Auxiliary to the Reading Room for the Blind, of which Mrs. Louis McCormick is president. Nineteen years ago the Society for the Aid of the Sightless was organized. This was done by the direction of the First Presidency of the Church. The purposes of the society are to publish suitable literature for the blind and to assist in improving their condition by encouraging them to study and to work. Mr. Albert M. Talmage, as official representative of the society, and his wife Sarah Whalen Talmage, who is secretary of the society, visit the blind in their homes and give instructions in reading and writing. In some cases they also teach light handicrafts. The society is publishing and distributing parts of the Book of Mormon, sections of the Doctrine and Covenants, and Deseret Sunday School hymns. It also publishes a monthly magazine entitled Messenger to the Sightless. This magazine contains each month some Church article and other suitable reading matter. It is sent on request to the New York Public Library, the Congressional Library at Washington, the Cleveland Public Library, the California State Library as well as to the libraries of some of the largest schools for WHAT UTAH IS DOING FOR THE BLIND | 119 the blind in this country. It also reaches blind readers in Europe. The work is maintained by popular donations, and by aid from the Church. The president of the society is Dr. James E. Talmage, who very kindly furnished the information contained in this paragraph. Another organization very helpful to the blind is the Utah Association for the Blind. This society is officered almost entirely by the sightless members. Mr. Wm. Nichols is president. He isa graduate of the Ogden school, and is now a musician. The object of this organization is to better the conditions of the blind throughout of the state. What the society would like to have just now, Mr. Nichols says, is a boarding house for the blind, in Salt Lake City, where men who come here to learn a trade at the workshop may stay and where they may obtain good food and fair treatment. It is hoped also to establish an employment bureau in connection with the organization. To acquire a loan fund is another ambition of the officers of this association. It is almost impossible for a blind man to borrow money, if he wishes to enter business or to buy a loom in order to work at his trade in his home town. A fund of this kind would, it is thought, be a great help, as the money could be loaned at reasonable interest rates to such as would be unable to obtain means elsewhere. Idleness is the great tragedy of the blind. 'The best possible way to aid the blind," said Mr. Nichols to me, "is to help them to be independent and self-supporting. What we want is, not charity, but an opportunity to work, a chance to help ourselves." In other words, the blind should be taught a trade by which they may earn a living. This is especially the case with those who have lost their sight after they obtained their growth. The school at Ogden does not aim, nor is it in a position, to give vocational training to the blind. Except for the aid given in this direction by the government rehabilitation agent,-Prof. Mosiah Hall, the only place where vocational training is given in the state is the Utah Workshop for the Blind, in Salt Lake City, which is under the supervision of the State School for the Blind. This shop was established more than two years ago. Here the blind are taught weaving. Only nine men can be accommodated. More would like to come if there were room. They are paid for their work by the yard, and according to its quality. Weaving of the finer designs, of course, brings a higher price than simple weaving. Of course, the most proficient earn the most money. Some very fine rugs are made here, also couch covers, cushion tops, shopping bags, and portieres. In order to do the finer weaving in designs the blind must be able to read the Braille, as directions for this work are printed and are too long to be remembered. Mr. John Strache, the shop superintendent, says that all the blind 
 who learn weaving should be taught to read. The articles woven are made from all sorts of rags, from burlap to silk. I saw some portieres made from the green covering of pool tables combined with black warp. This material was sent from Nevada. The men are kept busy for eight hours a day, and the busier they are, the happier. One man said to Mrs. Strache, when she told him it was time to quit, "Is it five o'clock already? I forget that I am blind." Another man, after learning his trade and going to his home town, wrote to Mr. Strache: "I am glad I ain not working in the shop, because I am afraid I would not get enough done in eight hours. But I am my own boss here and I can put in as many hours as I wish. I want to get my ninety yards of carpet off as soon as possible, so I can put in all white warp to make rugs for Christmas presents. So many people want them to send to friends and relatives. Some of my rugs have been sent to Canada, Idaho, California, Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa and Ohio, besides many towns in our own state." It is interesting to know that the Relief Societies are among the best patrons of this shop. Hundreds of pounds of rags sewed by Relief Society members are woven into rugs by the blind, and sold at a small profit, thus increasing the funds of the Society and also helping these unfortunate men who are striving to earn a living. But not all blind men are adapted to weaving. So it is the hope of those in charge of the shop to be able to introduce other trades, such as the making of brushes, boxes, and brooms, cobbling, and similar handicrafts, in this way increasing: the field of labor of the blind. The difference between the point of view of the past and of the present, so far as the treatment of the blind is concerned, has been very beautifully expressed in the lines that are printed large, and framed, in the workshop, where all who come there me see them: "Wouldst thou give happiness unto the blind? Grant him to wrest his daily bread from earth; With gracious labor fill his hand and mind; 'For only thus his truest job has birth.