[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | April | Issue: 8 | Title: L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST. | Author: EMMELINE B. WELLS]

L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	A saintly face and a great mother-heart,
		So rich in grace and charity thou art,
	That evermore our reverence shall be
		A loving tribute to thy memory.
	E’en poets yet unborn shall sing thy fame,
		And future generations bless thy name.
									E. B. W.

	These lines were written for the card on
which was the picture of Zina D. H.
Young to present to her many friends on the
occasion of her seventy-fifth birthday anni-
versary at a banquet given by the Relief So-
ciety, in the Templeton Hotel, January 31,
18963, and the verse is so expressive of the
woman, that I thought it a good opening to
the personal impressions I am about to
give of this famous Mother in Israel.
	I remember many years ago, when I was
quite young, of saying, “Aunt Zina has a
real Madonna face,” and throughout my life
I carried the thought whenever and where-
ever I saw her; to us who knew and worked
with her, Zina D. H. Young needs no en-
comium of praise, but to the younger women
of today and those yet to come upon the
stage of action in this Church, she should
be represented in prose, in poetry, in pic-
tures that will give to them an idea of her
beautiful personality. 
	I hesitate in writing of such good women
as those with whom I have been associated
in the Church, knowing how impossible it
is to convey the true merits of the nobility
of their characters to those, who were not
familiar with them in life. 
	The writer implicitly believes that Zina
Diantha Huntington inherited from a fam-
ous ancestry many of the talents so wonder-
fully developed in her own life under cir-
cumstances and with environments and sur-
roundings so unfavorable, in many respects
to growth and culture, and without what the
world terms superior advantages. To me
Aunt Zina was the embodiment of all that
was loveliest in Motherhood, and I speak
the word Motherhood with the utmost rever-
ence possible to a nature that holds this
condition of woman eminently superior. 
	Sister Zina was known throughout the
Church and was as greatly beloved perhaps,
as any woman who has stood in high places,
among the great heroes and heroines of
Zion. She was a born physician, and came
of a long line of men of that profession. She
was what is termed in our day, a “natural
healer,” one realized as soon as she entered
the sick room the influence of her presence,
and as I have often remarked, she carried
about with her the “balm of Gilead.”
The motherly element so designated in
modern times, together with the gift of heal-
ing so largely developed by her through the
gifts and inspiration of the Gospel, gave to
“Aunt Zina” that intense sympathy with
misfortune and suffering, that brings one
into close communion with the hearts and
inner lives of those to whom they minister.
She was generously endowed with that true
charity which hopeth all things, and in the
exercise of these sacred gifts she so distin-
guished herself among the sick and the sor-

[Column 2]
rowing as to gain the appellation of “Zina,
the Comforter.”
	Strictly religious in mind and character,
inheriting from her Puritan ancestry those
strong elements of endurance, for her faith,
zeal and devotion in the exercise of her be-
lief and religious liberty, and spiritual and
inspirational in that degree that is uplifting
in its tendency and effect, was the impres-
sion she made upon me. 
	Humility was one of Aunt Zina’s crown-
ing virtues, yet she had the courage to face
difficulties that to many would be appalling,
and the fortitude and endurance that knows
no wavering and is in itself a triumph. 
	Throughout the land of Zion and wherever
the gospel has been spread the names of
Sister Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young
are heralded and linked together. Their
lives fitted into each other admirably, and
together they labored for the good of hu-
manity, and particularly for womanhood and
the youth of Zion. 
	Sister Zina will, I trust, be remembered
for her indefatigable labors in the silk indus-
try. This people owe much to her efforts in
many directions. In all the details of
work, and in the hardships of pioneer life,
Sister Zina had an abundant share. The
early pioneer women had to make their own
soap, candles, starch, molasses, and what-
ever was needed without machinery of
any kind; and there was carding, spinning,
dyeing, knitting, weaving, besides ordinary,
regular, everyday duties; in all these
Sister Zina took part. Through all these
and manifold other experiences, Sister Zina
still retained that gentleness of spirit that
won the hearts of her coworkers and en-
deared her to all her associates; she pos-
sessed that rare delicacy of sympathy which
brings to the human heart sweet consolation
when under the most painful afflictions.
The gentle ministrations of women have
been beautifully portrayed by poets and
writers and by artists and sculptors, but
none of the artificial productions can bring
to the human soul the exquisite rendering of
divine power, which comes through human
tenderness in the hour of supreme need. 
	Sister Zina was a wonderfully gifted pub-
lic speaker, her tones were thrilling, and
her voice and manner always pleasing. 
	She impressed me as one greatly favored
of the Lord, and her presence among the
women of Zion was like a benediction. Vol-
umes might be written of her, and yet “the
half not be told.”
	“Wherein her very look
		We read her face as one who reads,
	A true and holy book.”

	Zina Diantha Huntington Young was born
at Watertown, New York State, January 3,
1821. Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, August
28, 1901.

	In dwelling upon the lives of the great
women whom I have known; and with whom
my lot has been cast, it is comparatively
easy to say a great deal, but not so when
one must single out a few prominent char-
acteristics. 
	The writer has in the past published
much concerning these heroic women, and


[Column 1]
now only wishes to present a glimpse, as it
were, a sort of pen picture from her own
point of view. Certainly Mary Isabella
Hales Horne was in herself a pillar of
strength, one saw it in her firmly built fig-
ure, her open countenance, the poise of
her head, and the way it set upon her
shoulders. Her brow denoted wisdom, (I
am neither phrenologist, nor skilled in
any science of a similar kind) but I can
see things clearly when I know the people.
To me it seems that the first glance of this
grand woman would assure one of her sub-
stantiality.
	M. Isabella Horne was a born leader, a
sort of General among women and indeed
in this respect might surpass most men, of
extraordinary ability; she really was intensely
English, though she was, as we say, Ameri-
canized. I should call her a perfect Eng-
lish type. She probably came of a race of
strong, valiant, heroic men and women. I
know not, but would judge so. At all events
she was a woman who could stand alone for
a principle in which she believed, opposition
would have no effect to weaken her, when
once she had made up her mind she was
right. Such women are sorely needed
in the battle of life, when there are wrongs
to be righted. You could rely upon her
integrity and uprightness in all places and
at all times; fearless of the foe, no crouch-
ing, no half measures, everywhere she main-
tained the dignity of her position, in what-
ever place she was called to fill. A woman
of great force of character, and wonderful
ability, such a one as might stand at the
head of a great institution and carry it on
successfully. Full of fidelity in friendship,
one always knew she would not fail in any
of the relations of comradeship, or sister-
hood. Her tenacity of purpose and her
grasp of great and grave questions, problems
even, were of a high order of statesmanship.
Even President Young once nominated her
for Justice of the peace, and in character and
ability to judge, she was not unlike Deborah
of old, or Queen Elizabeth of more modern
times, who instituted and carried forward
some of the greatest reforms.
	Sister Horne can appropriately be called a
stalwart, a champion for the rights of her
own sex, and indeed for all mankind.
Withal she was a woman of a strong relig-
ious nature, and had the utmost reverence
for sacred things and holy ordinances; firm
as the everlasting hills in the faith tof the
Gospel.
	Sister Horne had a fine presence on the
platform, or in the pulpit, spoke with great
earnestness and was wise in her utterances,
prophetic in nature, familiar with the scrip-
tures and handled her subjects well. Like
others of her time, she was undoubtedly a
woman of destiny. Although Sister Horne
filled many public positions, yet she was
essentially a home-maker, a mother in Israel
brave and renowned, as thousands can
testify.
	Mary Isabella Hales Horne was bore in
Rainham, Kent, England, Nov. 20, 1818.
Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 25, 1905.

	Comparatively few of the women of today
know even the name of Leonora Callister
Cannon Taylor, but in the mind of the writer
she is intimately associated with Mary Isa-
bella Horne; they were great friends and
good comrades from Canada to the Salt Lake
Valley. We of an older generation knew
Leonora Taylor as a magnificent woman;
one of commanding presence, and a coun-
tenance beaming with intelligence; nobility

[Column 2]
was stamped upon her brow, she was highly
educated, cultured and refined. Sister Tay-
lor was also English and it was very evident
in her manner and appearance; she held
very lofty and independent views, and I at-
tribute this in a measure to the fearlessness
of the sea-fearing people from whom she
sprang (her father was a ship captain), as
also the greater freedom and liberty given
to women on the tight little Isle of Man;
they had rights and privileges not accorded
to other women in Great Britain or on the
continent of Europe. The House of Keys,
as the Parliament of the Isle of Man is de-
signated, is composed of landed proprietors,
and women, who are land owners, have al-
ways voted for members of that body and
formerly, so history tells us, women were
members of that August Assembly. Sister
Taylor was exceedingly interesting in con-
versation, fond of good company, and very
hospitable; she entertained handsomely even
when living in a log cabin. I recall a small
party at her home in Winter Quarters, every-
thing was simple, but managed with such
skill and dignity that one only realized the
charm of the hostess. Sister Taylor was
very companionable to young people, she
seemed gifted with a sort of vivacity, that
was attractive to youth as well as those of
her own set, even though she was of a re-
ligious and devotional nature, and she had
the greatest reverence for sacred things.
These elements combined make for the high-
est excellence in human character in men or
women.
	The women who have figured conspicuous-
ly in early Church history of these latter
days, were far above the average, and one
cannot but feel they were called and in fact
chosen to assist in ushering in this last dis-
pensation. Through trials, difficulties and
journeyings from place to place, they have
been heroines in very deed. Siste Leonora
Taylor was a most loyal and devoted wife,
and her husband had desperate need of her
help when he was wounded in the prison at
Carthage, at the time of the martyrdom of
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother
Hyrum the Patriarch. Who can minister
to a man sick and distressed, so gently, so
tenderly as a loving, devoted, royal-hearted
wife, and especially one who like Sister
Taylor possessed all the requisites of woman’s
noblest nature intensified.
	Leonora Taylor was present when the Re-
lief Society was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois,
March 17, 1842. Her name stands third on
the list, only Emma Smith, and Martha
Knight before hers.
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert niece of Sister
Leonora Taylor somewhat resembles her
aunt, and has that beautiful expression of
countenance that one might term beatific; also
her niece Sister Ann C. Woodbury reminds
one of Sister Taylor in some of her heroic
utterances, and her lofty fearlessness, that is
inherited from the sea-fearing people, and
the greater privileges of citizenship their
foremothers enjoyed in that far-away past.
Grand women these three. Leonora Taylor
stands in the front rank among celebrated
heroines of the Church, George Elliot says:
		“A woman’s rank lies in the fulness of
			her womanhood
		Therein alone is she royal.”
	Leonora Callister Cannon Taylor, born in
Peel, Isle of Man, October 6, 1796, died in
Salt Lake City, December, 1868.

	Another remarkable woman was Phebe
Whittemore Carter Woodruff she was of Puri-
tan descent and came from, “away down in

[Column 3]
Maine.” I knew her intimately, for half a
century and testify to her strength of char-
acter, wonderful capabilities, stanch inte-
grity, and heroic fortitude of endurance.
Under the most severe trials she bore herself
majestically. She had the inherent quali-
ities of her Puritanical ancestry, that fought
for freedom and liberty in America, and re-
belled against tyranny and oppression in
England before they came.
	Sister Woodruff traveled to Kirtland, Ohio
from Maine alone, having been convinced of
the truth of the gospel; and that was at a
time when means of transit were not so safe
for a young maiden, but she had no fear,
and this one step in her life was indicative
of her true character.
	She was a woman of active energy, deter-
mination and independence; industrious,
and in fact thrifty, had excellent judgment
in affairs and good business ability, such
women were needed in pioneer life.
	Sister Woodruff had a varied experience,
in journeying from place to place with her
husband and family; and she once accom-
panied him to England when he went upon
his second mission to that country, and later
to the Eastern States going as far as her na-
tive home in Maine. Sister Woodruff was
a stanch advocate for the rights of her sex,
and her people. The speech she made in
the old Tabernacle protesting against the
passage of the Cullom hill has been alluded
to by writers and historians as a master-
piece. It is said of the Fabyans, her moth-
er’s family name, that they sprang from the
Roman nobility and one could easily believe,
Phebe Woodruff had the blood of conquerors
in her veins; at any rate the writer has abun-
dant proof of her native Yankee wit, which
on some occasions serves one’s purpose bet-
ter than argument, or bursts of oratory.
Among the women of Zion she excelled in
many respects, was well versed in the script-
ures, and in public work among the sisters
was sound on all doctrinal subjects, and
wise in counsel and faithful in the discharge
of religious duties. She was one of the fore-
most women to fill positions of trust and
confidence in the early days in the valley,
also an excellent housewife, knew how to
meet all the needs of a primitive home; car-
ding, spinning, dyeing, weaving, soap and
candle making, she was a pillar of strength
to her husband and family. The heart of
her husband could safely trust in her.
	Phebe Whittemore Carter Woodruff was
born March 8, 1807, in Scarboro, Maine, died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, November 10, 1885


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


