Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL ENTERTAINMENT: The George Washington Memorial entertainment on Saturday evening, February 19, was a great success. The entertainment was given at Major and Mrs. Downey's residence, 808 East, First South. 'The house is admirably adapted for entertaining, spacious halls and rooms large and connected with folding doors. The decorations were simply superb and one could not help feeling the enthusiasm that comes from flags, stars and stripes, banners, and martial music.... Some of the ladies of the committee were in the costumes of 1776 — with powdered hair, feathers, high combs, and rare old laces. —News Note WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY Arise — 'tis the day of our Washington's glory, The garlands uplift for our liberties won; Forever let Time tell the patriot's story Whose sword swept for freedom the fields of the sun —Selected REPORT FROM LAIE, OAHU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS: I am pleased to say that the work is progressing nicely, and I think our association will compare favorably with others. We find among the Hawaiian sisters many faithful and energetic workers. They take great interest in learning of things pertaining to the gospel and I have known some of them to walk from three to eight miles to attend meeting.... At present there are twenty-eight branches, and as a rule meetings are held weekly.... Once in six weeks I send some of the leading sisters to the other islands to visit them in their conferences, and I hope that we missionary sisters may be able to visit all the branches on the islands in the near future. —Alice R. Woolley MOTTO: The more we live for self the less we shall find the value of existence; the more we live for others and out of self, the greater will be the joy and satisfaction of living. —Selected A POET'S EVENING: On the evening of Friday, January 21, a number of old-time friends of Sister Eliza R. Snow, the sublime and eminent leader among the women of Zion, kept her birthday anniversary at the home of the writer. There were about forty of the sisters present, among whom were the venerable women Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne and Bathsheba W. Smith and others not so far advanced in life. These three mothers in Israel were members of the first organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and had always been closely associated with "Sister Eliza." Many of the ladies present read choice selections from her favorite poem of the esteemed and revered poetess. The memory of the beloved "elect lady" was fresh and tender in the minds of all present. Her writings, her teachings, her travels at home and abroad, her labors among the people and in the Temple were all remarked upon in the general conversation. —Emmeline B. Wells Page 96 MP: TAI YOUNG LEE-CHYUNG is the first and at present the only woman lawyer in Korea. Along with two male Korean lawyers, she was recently a grantee in the Specialist 'Training Program sponsored by the United States Department of State. She attended lectures on American law at Southern Methodist University, in Dallas, 'Texas, and_ traveled throughout the country learning about our laws. Mrs. Lee-Chyung is especially interested in the legal status of women and children and in learning about our juvenile courts. She established and personally finances the Korean Legal Center for Women in Seoul, which is training other women lawyers. ONNA HILL, literature leader in the Manhattan Ward Relief Society, New York City, has written and illustrated a picture book about Spain for children from ages three to eight. It is titled Not One More Day (Viking Press), and is listed by the New York Times Book Review Section (November 17, 1957) in "One Hundred Outstanding New Books for the Younger Reader." Donna Hill read her story and showed slides of her book at the "Explore the World in Books" festival held during Book Week at the World Affairs Center in New York City.