NOTES FROM THE FIELD ls using autumn leaves, fall flowers, and part of the food as decoration. A shining silver channel graced the length of the table, in which sailed specially cut open-faced sandwiches in the form of miniature boats, each flving a Danish flag in the stern. (Danish open-faced sandwiches are both appetizing and decorative, and are world renowncd.) Also serving as decoration and food were luscious grapes and red and yellow apples. In addition, creamed chicken and asparagus in patty shells and lemonade were served. Because so many attended the opening social, and because the lesson books have been printed in an attractive, small size, which is easier to carry, even though twenty-five per cent more books were printed this year, they have all been sold, and it will be necessary to print more. "Special book marks on which was written "The Glory of God Is Intelligence,' 'Read the Scriptures,' in gold lettering on blue, were presented as favors to each woman who attended. Aftcr the luncheon, the new lesson book was presented, then a program, with talks and music, was enjoyed by all." Photograph submitted by Verney J. Olson SOUTH SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAIT), BURTON WARD TOY DISPLAY AT BAZAAR Verney J. Olson, President, South Salt Lake Stake Relief Socicty, reports a successful toy-making project by the Burton Ward Relicf Socicty: 'In the picture is Geneva Birch, chairman of the toy making project. Sister Estella Walborn is Work Director Counselor. Under the supervision of Sister Birch 110 toys were made from scraps and used materials, with the exception of the monkeys, which were made from socks. 'he toys were all stuffed with nylon scraps from a factory, and so the profit was nearly one hundred per cent clear. It was a beautiful display of various toys, and it was a delight to see the joy the ward members showed in buying the toys. All but three toys were sold. Ledia Burrows is president of the Burton W 'ard Relief Society." > Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain to the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D. & C. 88:78). =e 3 Pali DEPARTMENT —t