[Vol16 | December 1929 | Sequence: 10d | Category: Article | Title: Business College and Product Advertisements]

We all want to make more money? but when do we start?

Better job?but when do we start?

No one ever yet secured a worthwhile position without preparing for it?and nobody ever will.

The way to earn training course in this school will increase your market value.

Qualities?

Pt L. D. S. Business College.

U. S. Business College Machine Calculation || NAME -- ADDRESS Iron Economy Why buy unknown brands of sub-standard Irons when you can get a fully guaranteed HOTPOINT 6 LBS.

HOUSEHOLD SIZE IRON FOR AS LITTLE AS More Value per Dollar; longer, better and more dependable Service.

Our Guarantee back of every Iron we sell.

Call in or phone us your order.

Modern Electric Company Was. 2307 128 South State Electrical Gifts are appreciated for the continued service they Give.

Gratitude Day by day more Food Buyers are patronizing our stores, showing their gratitude for having in their community, a fine, clean O. P. Skaggs System store where the highest quality merchandise can be bought at economy prices.

O.P. SKAGGS.

Efficient-Service System When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine COURSES: * Shorthand o, e Speedwriting; Bookkeeping Of course we all expect to get a promotion soon, or a We can think of lots of ways to use more money, and sometime we expect to have it.

But when do we start?

More money is to make yourself worth more.

A business It takes backbone and the power of decision to start training.

But what goal was ever achieved without these Your name on this ad will bring you complete details.

Why not make a start by sending it in today?

No obligation.

"YOU CAN'T GO WRONG" THAT'S WHY WE SAY 'Buy Blue Pine Food Products'"' and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money.

Scowcroft's BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS The Western Farmer and His Home The West holds the reputation of having a showing in rural electrification that is the envy of eastern states.

That means that in these rural homes the same comforts and conveniences may be enjoyed as in the larger towns and cities.

Cooking, Refrigeration, Electric Water Heating, Washing, Ironing, and the ''thousand and one things' that women have to do in farm homes are now made pleasant incidents of the day where electricity does all your hard jobs.

The farmer and his men now may do electrically, and all in shorter hours, the hard work of the farm that used to make it the hardest kind of labor.

Our New Combination Rates Make it more profitable than ever to make a generous use of electrical appliances to take away the drudgery and make life happier for man and woman?who always want to do things they haven't time for or are too tired after a day's work if they cling to old fashioned methods.

Call our nearest office and a representative will be pleased to call on you to discuss electrification as it pertains to your home or farm?there will be no obligation whatever on your part.

Seven Times Champion of the World.

Sent to you on Free Trial.

Utah Power & Light Co.

Efficient Public Service When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN World AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Sent to you Prompt and Careful Attention To on Free Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Trial Orders.

Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M. Ai  Complete Printing and Binding Service OFFICE and bank forms Ruling and book binding SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS.

We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines.

These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.? Write us about them.

The Deseret News Press When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Utah Power & Light Co.

Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 29 Richards Street Phone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City Relief Society Women--- Attention | After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department.

The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people.

The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials.

There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys.

We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges.

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine WASATCH 1300 | RELIEF SOCTIETY ? ARE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS WELCOME?

Relief SocietyJust what their visits would mean to your family should the husband and father be taken from you or be totally disabled?

Life Insurance protection relieves the Relief Society of their greatest task?-The Financing of the Widow's Family.

Don't Shirk Meeting This Issue FACE to FACE Put your house in order by procuring sufficient Life Insurance to carry on in case you are unable to carry on.

Beneficial Insurance For The Entire Family (Age 1 Day to 65 Years) Insurance is one of the highest type investments if you live or if you die or are disabled.

The Big Home Company Gives You Participating Insurance At Low Non Participating Rates All Beneficial Policyholders share in the net earnings Beneficial Life Insurance Co.

Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Any Beneficial Representative Will Give You Full Details When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Heber J. Grant, Pres. E. T. Ralphs, Gen. Mgr.