[Vol16 | December 1929 | Sequence: 09b | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for February - Lesson II - Work and Business - Patriotism]

LESSON II Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February (This topic to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in February) PATRIOTISM I. Definition. Patriotism is a love of country and a devotion to its welfare.? Daniel Webster. "I therefore believe it my duty to my country, to love it, to support its Constitution, to obey its laws, to respect. Its flag, and to defend it against all enemies.'?The American's Creed by W. T. Page. II. Value of Patriotism. A. Creates love of country. "Breathes there a man with soul so dead, who never to himself hath said, ?This is my own, my native land? "?The Lay of the Last Minstrel by Scott. B. Encourages observance of law. One of our solemn duties today is to stand by the Constitution and the flag of our country?to pledge a new allegiance to both. We know that the American flag stands for liberty under the law; that liberty is protected and made safe by law; and that only through obedience to law can liberty exist. Peace and security, which result from a good government, depend upon obedience to good laws. "Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land."? Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 58, verse 21. "And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me; "Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that Jaw, which is the constitutional law of the land."?Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 98, verses 5, 6. C. Promotes Security of Life, Liberty, Property. "Nowhere in the world is there a government of sq much liberty and equality,"-?Lincoln. "Our country asks us to live for her, and so to live and to act that her government may be pure, her officers honest, and every corner of her territory a place fit to grow the best men and women ??thank God, I am an American.'"?Daniel Webster. D. Develops respect for the flag, and thus Aids in creating the proper national spirit. "Through all the ages some flag has been an emblem to inspire men's hearts with confidence and hope and reverence." Do we understand the proper observance and use of the flag, and know its history? III, Cultivation of Patriotism. By knowledge of history and laws. By reading biographies of statesmen and pioneers. By learning songs, stories, and traditions. By observance of national holidays. By cultivating peace-time patriotism. MOOS "There is a necessity of remembering that carelessness and lawlessness are apt to manifest themselves during protracted peace times rather than during war. ?Eternal Vigilance is the price of liberty.' "'?Law Observance and Enforcement Bulletin, "So its home again, and home again, America for me, My heart is turning home again and there I long to be, In the land of youth and freedom beyond the ocean bars, Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of