Successful religious training in the home necessitates, first, such a home; and, second, the giving to the children of ideals and habits that will in turn aid them to erect a home that will indeed be a Church unto God. My Jewels By Maggie 'Richards Bracelets, beads and spangles I have naught Nor for their lifeless beauty do I yearn. But priceless jewels are mine; to have, to keep Their beauty warms my heart at every turn. Sapphires blue, two pairs, and pearls galore, Silver smiles from lips of ruby red * * * On diamonds from hearts of purest gold My thirsty love is fed. Fruits of Gratitude By Alice Morrill What can I do, my Mother true, To pay the debt I owe to you? How make returns to Heaven above For precious gift of mother-love? What can I say in thankfulness? How best my gratitude express? For all your tenderness, your prayer, Your sympathy, your brooding care? There is not much that I may do To lift life's burdens, dear, for you. Your cross of life I may not bear, Your sacred tasks I cannot share. But ah, thy love, so full and free, The care you have bestowed on me, To others I must freely give— Help other souls to better live. Yes, pass them on the helpful word, The faith, which high resolve has stirred, The comfort and the kindly cheer, In patience given, year by year. And so, my Mother, it must be, For all that you have done for me; My life, reflecting yours, must tell, A mother, I, in Israel! Lest Ye Regret By Silas'L. Cheney Mrs. Van Devener reclined easily on a chaise-lounge in her smartly furnished morning room. But she was not resting as a casual observer may have thought; on the. Contrary, she was rather strenuously engaged with her correspondence which had been sadly neglected during the last few days owing to a variety of pressing engagements. Now, however, she was determined to make amends by giving it her entire attention for the major part of the morning. At best such a task was not pleasant and today, because of its increased volume, it promised to be abso. Lutely tedious. The first two letters were not of a nature to change her expectations, and she yawned disgustedly as she tossed them aside. But as she opened and read a third, her lagging interest was aroused at once and an expression of bewilderment spread over her face. It addressed her familiarly, not to say affectionately, stated that the writer had just arrived in the city and was very desirous of seeing her before leaving; hinted at bygones, and con: cluded simply with, "Your old friend, Mattie." "Now who in the world is Mattie?" ejaculated Mrs. Van Devener as she tapped her puckered brows rhythmically with he: silver-mounted letter-opener. Gradually her expression cleared, then softened as in reminiscence she was carried back over the busy, eventful years to her college days. ''Mattie—Mattie O'Niel, why, of course, it was she." She wondered at herself for allowing the memory of her dearest girlhood friend to desert her so completely. It all came back to her now. The only one in college who had rivaled herself in popularity was the sprightly, vivacious, charming Mattie O'Niel who had the courage and ability to accomplish whatever she set out to do. She could haye won distinction in some career had it not been for her foolish religious notions. As it was she had fallen in love and married a fellow of whom Mrs. Van Devener could not conjure up the slightest recollection, not even his name, and had then proceeded to place the seal of oblivion upon an obscure position by keeping what she termed, "One of God's greatest commandments," that of multiplying and replenishing the earth, otherwise known as rearing a large family. "Poor, foolish Mattie,' sympathized Mrs. Van Devener, as she reached out and patted "Gerty, dear," until her whimperings changed to sharp little barks of approval. There had been times when Mrs. Van Devener had yearned for the companionship of children—her children—but, for the most