mother's lap and the mother's voice are his world. The greatest opportunity of life is her's at this period. At this period she is the infant's source of life as much as she was during its prenatal life. Between the time of its conception and its birth, she furnished its food, her pulsing heart supplied the life stream of its quivering protoplasm, it was through her own nostrils that she breathed into its lungs the breath of life. She stands to the embryonic child a8 Paul said God stands to man: In her life "it lives and moves and has its being." After birth, for a time, this is hardly less true. There is a change, however. Previously, the mother gave it the food, and the blood, and the oxygen that built its flesh and its bone. During the first months and years of its life, she gives the spiritual food, the spiritual nourishment, and the spiritual breath, out of which it is to build a spiritual life. This is the mother's great opportunity. If it is lost, all is lost. What a great responsibility! The babe is simply a bundle of possibilities. When it commences its earth life, it knows nothing of God, it knows nothing of good or evil, it has no bad habits, it knows no sin, it stands as a spotless, unblemished Jamb in the sight of its Creator, with the odor and atmosphere of its celestial home still enveloping it. In a few short years all this will be RELIGIOUS |TRAINING IN THE. HOME 231 changed. The bundle of possibilities will become more and more a bundle of realities. It will develop habits. Jf will gain knowledge of good and evil. It will come in contact with sin. As the babe lies upon its mother's arm, she may look at its lips that know no guile, at its hands that are unstained by crime or sin. She may put her hand over its pulsating, throbbing heart that has never yet been soiled by an impure desire. As she does so she may murmur: "If I could only keep him always thus.": If the mother could always be the child's whole environment, perhaps she could feel sure of his future. But such will not be possible. The vicissitudes and circumstances of life will soon waft the barque of his storm-tossed career beyond the pale of her magnetic personality. There will come a time when the tones of her guiding voice will no longer reach his ears. There will come a time when her voice and her influence will be supplanted by the voice and the luring influence of worldly associates. It is at this point that the real value of her teaching and her training will be tested. If this training has been superficial, if it has been spasmodic, if it has been by preachment—it is not likely that it will stick and do the required execution at the time of need. Woe be.. Unto the parent that has given this kind of religious training, for it will be as a rope of sand. No parent can teach a religion to a child until the parent lives that religion. Living a religion is the most effective teaching of a religion. It is out of such a life that all effective religious teaching must spring. But merely living one's religion is not enough. It is only the start. Jesus would not have converted many people by simple living. It was his life plus his teaching that gave Christianity to the world. Living and teaching go hand in hand. To be effective, they must be combined. The child will not take over the good habits, the good tastes, the good ideals of the parents by mere imitation, and leave the bad ones alone. Is it not true that most of us imitate the vices of the rich and the great but disregard their virtues? But the fact that the parept has the religious habits, sentiments, attitudes and experiences does prepare that parent effectively to teach them to her children. There is no other training school in this world that will give this preparation. In my estimation, our Church is to be commended for its admirable practice of sending many of the daughters of Zion into the missions of the world. How frequently do we hear the elders come back and say, "T never knew the gospel was true until I went on my mission." The mentality of the female works much the same as that of the male. It is surprising that the mothers in Israel have been so faithful. If we could send more of them as ambassadors of the great cause of righteousness to preach the gospel of faith and repentance unto this sinful world, we oe RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE would have just that many more mothers spiritually aflame and truly prepared to teach prayer, faith, repentance, and all the rest, to their children. The mothers in Israel must be given the soul-stirring experiences that come from teaching and preaching and living the gospel in a world of persecution and opposition. If this experience cannot be gained in the mission field, it must be gained at home. Sometinie in the life, the "Mormon" girl must gain a testimony of the faith that will so endear it to her soul that she would willingly die for it; that will so endear it to her that she will certainly live for it and fight for it. When this has been done, and when she has actually sacrificed for ler faith, then she is prepared to bequeath this precious heritage to her offspring. Religious training should begin in the home. Religious training should find its ultimate end in the home—in the building of a home. It is well that Christians are religious enough and selfsacrificing, enough to build towering cathedrals: and imposing church edifices. But the greatest church ever erected to the glory of God is a happy home, and the most sacred altar ever erected to the living God is the hearthstone about which a happy family gathers in joyous family communion. In such a Church, the father and the mother are the priest and priestess, glorying in the fact that they are cooperating with God in the greatest work that he ever undertook—the building and creating of worthy character.