Aaronic Priesthood Activities
By Joseph L. Wirthlin of Presiding Bishopric
The following problem was brought to us by a mother: "My boy who now holds the office of Teacher in the Aaronic Priesthood is less active in his quorum than he was as a Deacon, preferring Scout and other group activities to those of his Priesthood quorum. Where does responsibility for this condition rest and how may the problem be adequately met?" Bishop Wirthlin's suggested solution is here presented:
THE life blood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is activity. Activity is to the Church what the sap is to the tree. Prevent the circulation of sap in a tree—the leaves wither, dry up and fall; the branches become brittle and hard; soon the tree becomes gaunt, ghostly, and unpleasant to look upon. It is dead. Young men, bearers of the Priesthood of Aaron, must be free partakers of this great dynamic force in the Church, which stimulates faith, lays a foundation for a testimony, and precludes all that is evil. That force is activity. The lack of Church activity is inevitable spiritual death. The salvation of the youth of the Church is inseparably associated with Priesthood work. Priesthood is the authorized activity in the affairs of the Kingdom of God.
To sustain the Aaronic Priesthood membership in their active interests, there are several factors to be considered:
First, the home and all of its relationships to young men, particularly the example set by the parents in their activities, encouragement to be dependable in Church assignments, commendation for achievements. Point out the power of prayer. Joseph Smith said, "Teach them to pray. The prayer of youth availeth much." Close cooperation between parents, bishopric, and Lesser Priesthood supervisors is of paramount importance.
Second, the great need of the hour is prepared, inspired leadership for young men. A noted authority on Lesser Priesthood work states the case clearly in the following excerpt: "We often speak of a boy problem, but it is a man problem. When a supervisor is efficient, prepared, interested, and awake to the needs and view points of the boy, there is no boy problem. An interested supervisor will meet his quorum Sunday morning in consideration of assignments, recitations, checking up, but his real work is during the week, between meetings, checking up on absentees, encouraging the boy who may have lost his interest in Priesthood work, and assisting boys who may have personal problems.
Third, if the Lesser Priesthood Extension Plan is in operation, every boy in the ward will be accounted for, in some activity of the ward. Should a Priest, Teacher, or Deacon manifest more interest in Scouting than in Priesthood work, it is the difference between a prepared leadership and an indifferent one. It is the difference between a well developed program of activities and one which has received no consideration. I would say that mothers who have difficulty in having their sons attend to Priesthood duties should first take an inventory of the home and see that it is in order; second, if the ward supervisor fails, consult the bishopric; third, cooperate fully with all organizations in the ward that are interested in boys.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 171
Young men demand the positive things in life. They must have activity. They are searching for adventure. These three are found in Aaronic Priesthood work: positive principles of life and Life Eternal, activities by the score, and adventure in searching out the truths of the Gospel. Activity is the life blood of the Church.