Today's Youth By William Peterson (Director Extension Service, Utah State Agricultural College) HERE is no greater problem facing Utah today than that connected with proper adjustment of its young people. Facts disclose that more than four thousand young people in the State of Utah, past the age of high school training, are 'at present unattached and without employment. Statistics indicate that from the rural sections alone more than 2,400 young people are reaching the age of 21 each year. One county planning committee in its survey disclosed that there were 240 married couples without employment and without any home attachments, about 700 young unmarried men and some 680 young unmarried women living at home but ready to take on the responsibilities of life. At present they have no jobs and no earnings. Courage is needed to face this situation. Survey of the farms of the State indicates that many of the farms have from two to four times more labor available than is necessary to operate the farm. Still these people must have a living, and it is a tax on the farm industry to support people far in excess of those necessary to operate the farm. The same is true of the ranches having herds of cattle and sheep. It is not unusual to find a sheep investment called upon to support four or five families when half this number could perform all the labor necessary to take care of the herd. The school system in Utah is rated as being among the best in the land. Students are compelled to attend school from the time they are six until they are 18, unless they graduate from high school in the interim. This training is being carried at a high cost in comparison to the wealth of the State. Every student who graduates from high school— and all 'students have this opportunity—requires an investment of about $800 to finish the twelve grades. This is a complimentary arrangement, and the State can be justly proud of such an achievement and of offering such an opportunity to all who grow up in Utah. But after graduation from high school, what is the outlook: A very substantial number of these students do not go to college. With some it may be a lack of scholastic aptitude, with others it may be financial reasons. Others may feel they want to assume the responsibility of establishing a home. Many young people spend time waiting and complaining because nothing is offered to them. Competition for work and jobs has grown very keen, and each young person must get the concept that it is going to be largely due to his personal effort if he lands a satisfactory position.
UNFORTUNATELY, some false notions have grown up that only certain vocations are acceptable in modern society. The feeling is that one must choose a profession—be a lawyer, a doctor, or a banker. It should be clearly understood that one vocation is as dignified and satisfactory as another, 
166 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
if it is operated on the same scale of efficiency, honesty and integrity. The position of a good farmer is just as dignified as that of a banker or a doctor, if his work is carried on with the same efficiency, and he should be rated just as high and should be just as acceptable to society. The same is true with the artisan or the tradesman. There seems to have been a tendency in our educational methods to divert effort from the trades—away from the use of the hands. It would seem consistent to say that the time has come when young people should look with favor on a greater use of their ability to use their hands. The history of Utah is rich with reports of fine artisans who came here in early days—men who knew how to build—fine mechanics, masons, rock cutters, wheelwrights, millwrights, etc. The present generation are the descendants of these men and women and should be well trained and well adapted to handicraft. There are those who question whether our schools are giving full, rounded development. The curriculum is made essentially by school teachers, and some say, essentially for the training of school teachers. Of course, there was a time when advanced training did not apply to those who were going to till the land or go into the trades; they should learn by experience and be apprenticed. That day is past. The best training that the schools can give should be used to stimulate craftsmanship in any aptitude which the student seems to possess. If one is going to enjoy the greatest happiness in life, he should do that work in which he finds the greatest enjoyment. If you look about, you will find a lot of men who say that they have a "hobby". The "hobby" often means that the man has to do certain work in order to earn a living, and he does certain other things because they are the things he likes to do. What a happy position that individual is in who is able to combine the earning of a living with the thing he likes best.
THERE should be a definite effort to stimulate handicraft in the young people who are growing up in the State of Utah. One step which will promote this thing is to have a well equipped shop in which young people can work. The shop should be so positioned that the boys can do what they are inclined to do, and be large enough to have their associates visit them at their work. The shop does not need to be elaborate. It should fit the inclination of users. It should have a good work bench with a vise for holding boards and an additional vise for metal work. It should be equipped with some good tools—not a lot of tools. The boy should learn to appreciate and take care of tools and handle them so they are always sharp, clean and ready for service. The shop should be equipped with an oilstone, files, hack saw, hammers, planes, wood and metal chisels, etc. If the young boy who works in the shop is inclined, he may fit it with leather tools and sewing horse. The boy should be allowed something with which to work—either boards or metal. Of course, the boys will spoil some things, but it is very much better to have one or two boys spending their time in a shop trying to make something than to have them loafing and prowling around in other places. A shop and an inclination toward use of the natural resources that are about us might lead to the development of tradesmen and artisans who will be outstanding in the community. It would be ill advised for anyone to indicate what all boys and girls should do. Yes, girls should have access to the shop as well as boys. Girls can build; they can paint and give expression to their special artistic ability.
One may ask what this shop could afford that would be useful. Look about us and see what we have outdoors. Thousands of dollars worth of cedar chests are sold in the State of Utah each year. The cedar in these chests is the same that is contained in the mountain junipers. The mountain juniper is known generally as cedar. The preservative quality of the wood is the strong aroma of the cedar oil it contains. Spread over the State are literally many thousands of trees sufficiently large to saw into boards which might be converted into chests for preserving clothing. This wood is actually the same material that is found in the expensive cedar chests sold on the market, except the expensive chest has a veneer of attractive wood glued on as an outside cover. (Young people might even try making the glue.) Trimmings and equipment vary with the type of chest. Native cedar-wood chests offer a preservative receptacle for the clothing in each home. The young man or young woman with unusually mechanical trends may develop something especially attractive for the market.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 167
Only recently a man made a trip from the north end of the State to the south end to visit a gentleman who makes oak chairs seated with woven rawhide. These chairs were taken back to New England. When asked why he visited the Dixie area, he said it is the only place where such chairs can be obtained, and they are prized very highly except at home.
Utah is a mineral state and always among the first two or three states in production, but silversmiths are few and not known in most localities. Both boys and girls with mechanical abilities could profitably busy themselves in shaping and forming silver into jewelry and ornaments. Ninety-one years ago the Wm. Rogers Company came into existence in a small shop not well equipped. Effort need not be confined to silver, but silver adapts itself to the forming of bracelets, rings, brooches, silver plating etc.; and associated with it may be used Utah stones. Variscite, a highly colored aluminum phosphate, procured in the Stansbury mountains, has been called "Utah stone". The rough stone can be obtained at little expense. The shaping of this into settings that would be satisfactory for jewelry is an invitation to the finest craftsmanship. Other minerals might be obtained. Topaz crystals on Topaz mountain have been mostly investigated and surveyed by people outside of the State. Recently there was published a rather fine description of the conditions on Topaz mountain. The search for these stones in that locality might be as lucrative to inexperienced people as to others who have
168 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
spent years there. Utah abounds in silicified wood, opalized wood, even high-grade opals that could be readily cut and shaped for jewelry. Copper is abundant and could be easily obtained for shaping. It might be interesting to young people to go to the library and look up William T. Baxter's handbook, "Jewelry, Gem Cutting and Metalcraft". This may give a lot of suggestions. Utah abounds in other minerals that might be shaped and put on the market. Many of the ores are attractive. Elaterite and ozocerite can be formed into all kinds of attractive decorations. A well equipped little shop and a few tools with a grinding wheel for working such material might easily lead to a satisfactory industry and a vocation for life. There is always someone about who can help and offer suggestions. Electricity is easily available and may be used for machinery and metal plating.
TO boys who live on farms there is an important challenge to select and do those things that are needed most. Why not try growing seeds—garden seeds, flower seeds, or better grain seeds for farm planting? Clubs can be formed for this purpose either through the 4-H club organization or the Future Farmer organization. This is fascinating and profitable. Most boys and girls have been interested in forestry but mostly in identification. Every year many trips are taken into the wilds of the mountains, but too often these trips are only a test of endurance and for sociability. Too often this sociability should be guided more carefully. In Utah there is the appeal of the out-of-doors. The out-of-doors may be associated with people and craftsmanship. It might probably be the ambition of each young boy to make a first-class hunting knife for himself. This can be shaped from a good piece of steel or a retempered file ground into the shape desired and handled with real buckhorn. Even if the buck isn't killed by the maker, horns can be found on the mountains and can be carried back and sawed into the shape desired. These knives, if well made, could easily be marketed and bring a profit for the effort. They would be much more attractive with a good leather scabbard. More work could be done with livestock. And poultry. There are over the State a few very fine herds which have developed from the selection of a single, young, pure-bred calf. The result signifies the interest and stick-to-itiveness of the young people going into the project. Fewer people are going into the trades than in earlier periods. Often boys will do some carpentry or other work in school but fail to see the advantage of taking up such work as a trade. We must have mechanics, butchers, tailors. Thousands of men have their suits made by tailors, but I have not noticed a young man going into the tailor's trade. I am sure there is an opening there.
THESE opportunities in craftsmanship induce effort and clean wholesome thinking, while in many cases if not taken up the person is likely to be somewhat idle. Being idle is not conducive to character building. There is an old adage that one is what one thinks. If one
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 169
is occupied with problems which are constantly challenging him to make a supreme effort, he cannot help but be better in consequence. The advantage of working with nature is that nature teaches a lesson of absolute honesty. It responds according to law and order. Let me emphasize that clean, honorable people develop from doing things which are clean and honorable, and that one vocation is not better than another, except as the individual makes it so. There are throughout the State organizations of young science groups or home making groups. These have their advantage. They provide a chance for discussion as to what is best and what is most desirable. In these groups ideals are formed; character is built through a more comprehensive outlook on life. I believe it is both profitable and elevating for young people to not only get the best education their conditions will afford but also to get the best training their inclinations will permit. Henry Wallace, grandfather of our present Secretary of Agriculture, defines education as follows: "Education after all is simply the fitting of the eyes to see, of the hands to work, of the mind to perceive the truth, of the tongue or the pen to express it. And it is by the practice of all these that we educate ourselves and become strong and clear-headed men."
Dr. C. B. Smith, who for many years has been chief of the Extension Service at Washington, has become a friend and philosopher among young people. Dr. Smith says: "The abundant essence of religion is service to men. No man can live the abundant life without being in a substantial measure religious, giving whole-heartedly and joyously of himself and his goods in the service and welfare of his fellow men.... The abundant life is promoted by knowledge: knowledge of things that surround us, knowledge of science, philosophy, literature, music, the arts, song and rhythm, with the hands in handicraft and otherwise. The life is promoted by the opportunity at times to be alone in the hills, in the storm, beside the sea; at other times to mix with the crowds and be a part of a social gathering—the convention, the group, the camp, the recreation center. In this new era we should not be content until all men shall have an opportunity to have some work, some income, some leisure in order that they may have a part in the abundant life contemplated for each man from the beginning."
If our young people expect to succeed, be happy and satisfied, they must give abundantly of their own effort. They must be willing to pay the price for the reward expected. Above all during those younger years they must make a reputation which will last them for life, a reputation for honesty, integrity, fair dealing, and a willingness to work. They should be true to their religious concept, accord to others that which they expect for themselves. They should study their own abilities and build on that which seems most promising and most abundant. Any profession or vocation chosen can be dignified and satisfying if sufficient effort and honor is put into it.