194 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Dr. Ellis Reynolds Shipp
"To live, kind Father, just While I can execute this trust Of mortal life in usefulness, So long as I can others bless, No longer do I ask.
"When that time comes, take me To realms of immortality; Renew my useful powers then So I can live and work again. For that will Heaven be."
DR. ELLIS REYNOLDS SHIPP received her answer to this prayer, so beautifully expressed in poetic phrase, January 31, 1939, when her spirit was released from earthly bonds to enter into immortality.
Dr. Shipp was one of Utah's most remarkable and noteworthy women; her long life one of unselfish service and devotion to her family, her friends and humanity. She was born in 1847, on the Iowa prairies, when her father, with his family, were migrating with the driven people from Nauvoo. When she was five years old, they resumed the westward journey, and many incidents were recorded on her mind, which in later years she related in her writings. She lived almost a century and noted the changes in a changing world, from the oxen-drawn covered wagon to the airplane, from the tallow candle to the electric light. The deprivations and struggles of pioneer life moulded a character of courage and dependability which helped her meet life's vicissitudes with strength and calmness. Hers was no flower-strewn path; yet, from the beginning to the end, it was an unfaltering course that led to a goal of achievement.
Dr. Shipp was an ardent student, possessed of many natural gifts and charm of person, and found happiness in intellectual pursuits. She was a devoted mother and desired beyond almost anything to afford opportunities for her children. She chose the field of medicine as a way to give service and gain a desired goal. As physician and teacher, hundreds of women revere her memory for kind ministrations and wise instruction. For many years a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, Dr. Shipp made rich contributions from her experience and practical knowledge to that great organization. Among honors bestowed upon her in recognition of her great service was that of being the honored guest at her alma mater in Philadelphia, where she received a gold medal for sixty years' service as a medical practitioner. In 1937, when she was ninety-one, the Salt Lake Federation of Women's Clubs selected her to a place in the Women's Hall of Fame and bestowed upon her a medal for distinguished service. Her book of poems called "Life Lines" portrays in the magic of words her refinement of soul, her love of all things beautiful in nature and humanity, her hope and faith in God?the fountain of all knowledge and intelligence. Her family and loved ones are rich beyond words in a heritage of loving service and sublime faith.?A. W. C.