Vol. XXVI MARCH, 1939 No. 3
EDITORIAL
That Which Is Ours
THE history of woman is one of ceaseless activity. Her versatility, resourcefulness, inventive ability, charitableness, love of beauty, self-sacrifice, loyalty and love have been important in the advancement of civilization. No one today insists that woman's contribution has been a modest one. The result of women's influence was concisely expressed by a certain gentleman when he said: "So far from women exercising little or no influence over the progress of civilization, they are capable of exercising, and have actually exercised, an enormous influence; this influence is, in fact, so great that it is hardly possible to assign limits to it, and, great as it is, it may with advantage be still further increased.... It has produced powerful results and has affected the shape and character of the society in which we live."
The native instincts of women have directed their various activities into avenues of love?helpfulness and service?and this is the only basis upon which a superior civilization can be built.
The history of the Church is replete with instances of loyalty, sacrifice, courage, and intelligent effort on the part of Latter-day Saint women, and their contribution in advancing the program of the Church is inestimable. In an address given by President Heber J. Grant at Relief Society Conference, he said: "I think that the Relief Society has done and is doing today a very remarkable work in this Church, and their work is appreciated very much by the First Presidency and each and all of the General Authorities."
The Prophet Joseph Smith recognized the natural instincts and native abilities of women and the part they were to play in the work of the Church. Though the attitude of his day was that woman's place was the home, and the home only, he enlarged her sphere and "turned the key" that she might rise, go forward, develop self and improve Church and community life; that she might "manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality; care for the poor, the sick and unfortunate; minister where death reigns; assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; raise human life to its highest level; elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; develop faith; save souls; and study and teach the Gospel".
Through organization comes strength, power, and influence, impossible to attain individually. Opportunities for individual advancement as well as service to others are multiplied manifold. Through the Relief Society organization, the entire Latter-day Saint sisterhood has been elevated. Active participation in Church and community affairs has advanced the women of Relief Society until they hold a position of leadership among the important organized women's groups of the world.
WOMEN the world over have made great advancement in the last one hundred years. Many doors of opportunity have been opened to them, and they have forced many other doors to open. As they have
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 193
realized their strength, they have moved on to greater and greater strength, and their accomplishments stand a monument to them.
However, women must not feel that the position which they hold in the world today, and which has been gained through such earnest effort, is entirely secure. Opportunities that are present now may not be theirs tomorrow. Appreciating the advantages which are theirs, they should safeguard them and constantly strive for further advancement. Then, natively endowed with humane instincts and keen perception, with opportunities to constantly improve, they should play an important part in removing prejudices and evil practices of society, in improving laws and institutions?in making Christianity a reality in the world.
What does the woman's movement of the past mean to us individually? Do we appreciate the power and influence of women in the world? Are we active in preserving what we have and in steadily pushing forward? Do we take advantage of each opportunity for learning and service that presents? Are we alert to conditions about us which may be improved, and to our individual responsibility in their improvement? Do we appreciate and value the organization provided for Latter-day Saint women by a Prophet of God, through which we may work most effectively?
Women today are heirs to many advantages. Let us be worthy daughters of noble mothers.