Bek The Joy of Creating By Counselor Kate M. Barker You work that you may keep pace with the earth and the soul of the earth. "For to be idle is to become a stranger unto the seasons, and to step out of life's procession, that marches in majesty and proud submission towards the infinite.... "Always you have been told that work is a curse and labour a misfortune. "But I say to you that when you work you fulfil a part of earth's furthest dream, assigned to you when that dream was born, "And in keeping yourself with labour you are in truth loving life, "And to love life through labour is to be intimate with life's inmost secret."— Kahlil Gibran. SUCH a love of life through labor can only come when one finds work which is both a delight to himself and a value to society, and one only really loves the work in which opportunity is given for self-expression. In other words, creative work has always been a necessary part of a balanced life. Not that many can be geniuses and conceive great art, but many do have creative hands which can make objects of daily use more beautiful and enjoyable, so that their ownership becomes one of life's pleasures. Learning to appreciate and love the beautiful in little things of daily use enlarges one's horizon, and one learns to see the beautiful in all of life. I saw a piece of lace made by a peasant woman in Czechoslovakia. Life for this woman had been extremely hard, as it is for the women of her class. Her work was in the field—hard, manual labor. But she saw the beauty in the wild flowers which grew there, and as she worked she planned and designed lace patterns from the flowers, and each night her creative fingers knitted a bit of the lace. She said this rested her, and the little while she created beauty kept her from becoming embittered and helped her to see beauty in all of life. As the old Kentucky mountaineer said, "Hits better for folkses character to larn 'em to do things with their hands." In our country, with its mass production and glorification of the machine, we have too long watched articles being made lacking beauty and individuality and people losing not only the ability to create but also the appreciation of fine workmanship. THE Relief Society has always maintained that women should be given the opportunity of developing the skills of the hand and have kept one Tuesday each month for this training. Then came the depression and with it the idea: Why could the Organization not guide and stimulate good work and at the same time furnish the means for offering it to the public in a practical way? And so "Mormon Handicraft" began. It is still in its infancy, but the experience of the past year and a half has proven that if handled wisely it can become a real service to the Church. Already many women have found peace and joy in being able to find self-expression in the work. Because of having an outlet, with all profit going directly to the 160 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE maker, to many has come new courage as well as a means of supplementing the family income. Probably no group of people in the world has more potentialities for the development of a great handicraft movement than our own. Certainly none has such a variety of skills and traditions as we have, 'for we have skilled artisans from many different countries. But we have been unwise in that we have failed to build into our own culture the fine contributions which our foreignborn brothers and sisters have to contribute. Before it is too late, let us learn from them these fine skills, which have been proven throughout the ages to always make for better living; for creative hands make a happier people. If "Mormon Handicraft" is to succeed, if there is to be a worthy future for it, it must stand on its own feet. The articles placed in the shop must stand on their own merit. We cannot appeal to the public to buy because they are handmade. Many machine-made articles are better than handmade. We must accept the challenge and give to "Mormon Handicraft" articles those things that machinery cannot give— distinction, personality, and artistic charm. In design, decoration, and coloring the artist behind the work must be revealed. Only thus can it have personality which makes it a pleasure to possess. To help meet this need an advisory board has been called. This group is now working on_ several projects. So many women have creative fingers but need guidance in creative designing and decoration. We surely have inherited from our pioneer mothers and fathers a handicraft tradition of exceptional beauty and dignity. If this inherited culture is kept alive, developed and added to, it should bear rich fruit, which will mean much for human happiness. GEORGE ELIOT represents Stradivari as saying about his violins: "... When any master holds 'Twixt chin and hand a violin of mine, He will be glad that Stradivari lived, Made violins, and made them of the best. The masters only know whose work is good; They will choose mine, and while God gives them skill I give them instruments to play upon, God choosing me to help Him He could not make Antonio