Women We Should Know
LYDIA SPENCER CLAWSON—WIFE AND MOTHER
By Ramona W. Cannon
"LAY me on an anvil, O God! Hammer and beat me!" cries the modern poet, Carl Sandburg. Sister Lydia Spencer Clawson was much too young to make any such request when her own shaping on God's anvil began. It came without invitation, and, as with many of our pioneer wives and mothers, the process was long continued and fraught with pain. Yet, Sister Clawson accepted her lot with heroism, and from the ringing blows of her life she emerged a character of finest, staunchest workmanship and beauty. From the first, she learned to master situations, however perplexing, rather than become their victim.
She was only eight when her father, the gentlemanly and beloved Daniel Spencer, died, leaving her mother, Mary Jane Cutcliff, one of his widows, with four small children to support. There was a time when each daughter had but one dress. Yet the children were kept clean, for their mother washed their dresses each night and ironed them each morning until the girls grew old enough to do their own and their mother's too. At nine Lydia was tending babies to increase the family income. At thirteen she regularly went out sewing. That she could make dresses was a chance discovery growing out of her attempts to master her first great obstacle, the lack of a dress to wear to Prissy Jennings' birthday party.
Prissy was rich, and she and the other girls would have lovely party frocks. Lydia determined to have one, too. But how? Most unexpectedly she appeared at the old Octagon House in the Thirteenth Ward, near her home, and asked to hem tablecloths and napkins. "You are too little," was the reply. "You might give me a trial," appealed the child. The trial led to what employment was available, but labor was cheap and dress materials expensive. Lydia did not earn enough to buy her material. Governor Woods' wife, a neighbor, knew the situation and left her sewing machine with Lydia while she went on a trip. The child could now cut by the thread and sew flour sacks from the factory at a penny apiece. Increasing her funds by making several hundred of these, she purchased some black and purple checked cashmere. But alas, her mother was so crowded with rush orders for dresses that she could not even offer more than the slightest help to Lydia. So the girl, not yet thirteen, laid papers on the floor and experimented with cutting front, back, and side gores until they looked right. She pinned the waist on her own figure many times before sewing. Fortunately, the dress and the party were a success.
This same spirit of determination not to be worsted, coupled with extraordinary ingenuity, dominated Sister Clawson's entire life. She found a way to set Rennie's broken collar bone when no medical help was available; to remove from her own throat the ulcers which were choking her when she had diphtheria; to manage Rudger Junior's convulsions when, weak from her own illness, she had no strength herself.
Soon Lydia was sewing, earning a dollar a day, which she turned over to her mother. Frequently, after a
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 173
long day's work, she would come home and cut out and make a Mother Hubbard. Quick and expert, she could complete one in two hours. "Ugly things, Mother Hubbards," confides Sister Clawson, "but they were in great demand, though I could never come to being seen in one myself." This pride in personal appearance has always kept Sister
LYDIA SPENCER CLAWSON
174 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Clawson looking the superior person that she is, and makes it a joy to meet her now in her seventy-ninth year, whether at home or on the street.
Lydia's family moved to Pleasant Green when she was still a young girl. She became secretary of the Sunday School and a visiting teacher in Relief Society. Sometimes an unprovided, expectant mother was found. The teachers would gather donations of money or materials, supply the rest from their own slender purses, and make a layette, with petticoats and dresses to reach from the mother's knee to the floor.
LYDIA, quick-witted, good-natured, a worker and a noted beauty, was frequently sought in marriage. But she was in no hurry. "I never want to marry an apostle, a stake president, or a bishop," she would say. "Things are too hard for the wives when the men have to be away so much. I want a good, genuine 'Mormon,' but I also want a mate." She drove so many other stakes that her family sighed, "Well, it looks as though we shall have to have some one made to order for you." But to Lydia one young man had long seemed made to her order—Rudger Clawson, who even qualified religiously, having no more important Church positions than those of ward teacher and home missionary. In the course of time these two were wed.
That was a difficult period, however, and Lydia continued to sew, using the cumbersome tin pattern-models in vogue. Then she became a pupil of the Mather sisters, who were teaching the drafting of paper patterns to fit the figure and conform to any desired style. Lydia, who had had some original experience along that line at the age of twelve, soon became expert. She was a favorite with out-of-town customers, because she required only one fitting to complete a satisfactory garment.
The birth of her first baby was a terrible ordeal in which Sister Clawson's life was despaired of. The child was always delicate. As the years passed, Lydia nursed him through many sieges of illness until at twenty he died of typhoid fever after his mother had watched him days and nights without removing her clothing.
Brother Clawson was only thirty-one when he was called to move to Brigham City to preside over Box Elder Stake. Here was Lydia, only a girl, face to face with the experience she dreaded. But now she did not flinch. She, too, like so many other women, must make her sacrifices for the carrying on of God's work. Certainly through Brother Clawson's ten years as stake president and remaining years as an apostle, her life was no easier than her forebodings had pictured it. Hers was the problem of rearing a large family with the father away much of the time. She nursed children through severe illnesses and did the extra work required of her. Her heart cried out in terror when a precious soul hung in the balance between life and death and the father could not be reached. Her spirit perhaps ached along with her body when her husband came in one evening with a group of men to be provided for only a few hours before one of her difficult births. But those were the days when traveling was slow and difficult, when there was a dearth of hotels, and when hospitality was less a matter of social interchange than of grim necessity. Her experience was not uncommon among women of the Church in rural communities. Sister Clawson's two characteristic comments about such times are: "Well, no one heard me complain about it," and, "I couldn't have done it by myself—a higher power carried me through."
The Clawsons' move to Brigham City was a dramatic experience. The train ran into a terrific blizzard and was stalled for three days. The family almost perished from cold and hunger. Finally, arriving in the dead of night, they found the station room locked. Rudger, weak and suffering from the inclemency of the weather, had to make his way a mile and a half to Sister Minnie Snow's home, harness a horse and drive back for wife, child and luggage. Sister Clawson, waiting, could only pace up and down in the icy blasts, carrying her heavy two-year-old child.
The Clawsons were not at first cordially welcomed by the people. This man was young, inexperienced, unused to country life, a stranger. Why should he be sent to preside over them? They received their answer in the wise guidance and the humility and beautiful spirit of Brother Clawson and in the helpful, lovable nature of his wife. The family income being meager, Sister Clawson at once began to sew again and was soon in great demand. She also raised chickens, sold eggs, and kept two boarders. During their eleven years' residence in Brigham
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 175
City, she gave birth to five babies, and once nursed herself through diphtheria, only to find that the delicate eldest child had contracted scarlet fever. Sister Emma Stohl, learning the situation, braved the two dreaded diseases and moved in to help Sister Clawson.
BACK in Salt Lake, with Brother Clawson an apostle, the family of seven moved into a small house. "But children want a nice home," says Sister Clawson. So she magically made room for nine boarders, and with the income began to build in the front yard a comfortable home where they still reside. Better times came. There were the years of presiding over the British Mission, where this experienced woman gave wise advice to the missionaries and the women. There were trips with her husband, visits to her married children in Washington, Chicago, and elsewhere. All of these have been delightful to her. Her zest for life is still keen, her observations quick and alert, her appreciation deep and spiritualized.
Sister Clawson chose the best of all careers—that of a true woman, wife and mother, whose price is still "above rubies." Her children have laughed and wept in her presence and have been comforted and sustained by her patient understanding and her delightful sense of humor. Affectionate always, she still stimulates them and spurs them on to achievement. They truly "arise and call her blessed." She feels that her days spent with them have all been "jewels strung on cords of love."
Nine human souls she has launched—like stately frigates—on the
176 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stream of time that flows into the sea of eternity. Four of them early slipped over the brink; but they are still hers, waiting beautiful and unsullied for their parents. Truly her life has been selfless and sacrificial, yet most ample in reward. When memories of earthly riches, ease, power or fame are less than the dust to eternal souls, Sister Clawson, hand in hand with her husband, can look upon her nine beloved children with their posterity and say, "These are ours."
THE QUEST
By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
The search for Beauty is a quest That ever lures the soul of man; In various avenues he's sought Since time in this old world began.
He sometimes cries, "I've found her. Now My quest is done. Behold her—Truth!" Again his shout of triumph rings: "Lo! Beauty is a name for Youth."
Another search and he declares She hides in Nature's varied guise, And may be found by anyone Who looks with eager, seeking eyes.
He often states that Beauty is A yearning of the soul, a dove That sits within the heart and sings The blisses of eternal Love.
He sees her as a little Child With smiling lips and eyes that trust; As Age that walks serenely on Though cynics warn, "The end is dust!"
It's true that he has found in each Of these some answer to his call; But in a lovely Woman he Will learn that he has found them all.
The beauty of her form and face He loves; and yet he holds supreme The beauty of her heart and soul. It lifts him like a glorious dream
To heights he thought he could not reach Without her to inspire—his Best. Within her womanhood she holds Consummate answer to his quest.