MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Attention Choristers
A LETTER containing the following instructions regarding the musical program to be provided by the augmented group of Singing Mothers at the Relief Society April Conference has been sent to all stakes and missions. These instructions are of importance to all groups of Singing Mothers:
I. Special Invitation
The General Authorities have invited Relief Society Singing Mothers to furnish music for both sessions of the General Conference, on Thursday, April 6. Due to the significance of this day, we deem it a real privilege to be so honored and have accepted the invitation. We should like to have as many stakes as possible represented.
II. Registration
The office is anxious to have definite information as to how many stakes and missions will participate at this particular Conference. If you have not already done so, will you please notify the office as to the number your stake is sending. It is imperative that we have this information. Owing to the number of stakes participating, we are compelled to limit each stake to twelve members.
III. Songs
The following songs will be used: "Sanctus"?Gounod "Benedictus"?Gounod "O Bread of Life"?Franck "O Morn of Beauty"?Sibelius "The Lord's Prayer"?Gates "For the Strength of the Hills" "Abide With Me" "He Died! The Great Redeemer Died"
IV. Requirements
Again may we remind our Singing Mothers that all songs (both music and words) are to be memorized. The last three hymns are to be learned as follows:
"For the Strength of the Hills"?all verses, soprano and alto parts as found in the L. D. S. Hymn Book.
"Abide With Me"?all verses, soprano part only.
"He Died! The Great Redeemer Died"?all verses, soprano and alto.
The Central Group will sing additional parts to make the harmony complete.
Regulation uniform dress will be used?black or very dark skirt, with white satin blouse. Full description of blouse, material, buttons, ribbon, etc., may be found in the November, 1937, issue of The Relief Society Magazine.
As heretofore we are expecting each stake to send a balanced group.
V. Four Days Involved
The first song practice will be held in the Tabernacle at 9 a. m., Monday, April 3, under the direction of Professor Wade N. Stephens. It is important that Singing Mothers be present at this time.
April 3 and 4 will be devoted to placing of groups, rehearsals, etc. April 5?Relief Society Conference. April 6?General Conference.
VI. Reservations
May we suggest that if some
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 201
of our women contemplate stopping at hotels, it might be well to write directly to the hotels for reservations and rates, as soon as possible.
ATTENTION is called to the fact that a department will be held for Choristers and Organists as a part of the regular April Conference program. For the discussion period, will choristers and organists kindly bring written copies of any questions they may wish to have considered. This will conserve time and make it more profitable and interesting for all.
Hints for Studying Conference Music
By Wade N. Stephens
"O MORN OF BEAUTY"
THIS piece should be taught in strict tempo, being sure that the last long note in each phrase is well sustained throughout its full value. Where the second soprano part is divided, the two notes should be sung by an equal number of voices if possible. Where this cannot be done, put more voices on the lower part. In dividing the first alto, if you have an uneven number of voices, put more on the lower part also.
"O BREAD OF LIFE"
IN the first verse of this piece, a change in words is to be made. Beginning in the last measure of the top line on page four, the two lower parts sing "the living bread, Holy". Please change this to read "the holy, living bread". Otherwise the first verse is to be taught as written, with careful regard for the rests. In the second verse, do not teach the solo part. Use only the three chorus parts. On page six, the last two measures, where the words are "Giv'n with Thy tender love," teach the first soprano the following notes instead of those written:
[Musical notation indicated]
Giv'n with Thy ten - der love,
The tempo should be rather slow, and regular throughout except for the last line, which is sung more slowly. Be sure all the rests are observed.