Evans has outlined the responsibility of Relief Society ward presidents as follows: "Acceptance of the position of
148 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Relief Society ward president carries with it the obligation to assist those in the ward who are in need. To meet this obligation successfully she must possess or cultivate the spirit of understanding and a sensitiveness to the sorrows and needs of her fellowmen.... We can scarcely overestimate the value of insight into and understanding of the motives of others. It brings tolerance and patience and gives one the power to suspend judgment until the facts are known.... Understanding is especially necessary when one is dealing with persons in need, be that need material or spiritual. It is seldom possible to recognize at sight the nature of another person's problems."
This would be a tremendous task if the president alone were called upon to know the economic and spiritual condition of each member in her ward, but the Organization provides for help in the well organized visiting teachers. A great responsibility is given to visiting teachers who, when fulfilling their calling as messengers of the president, bring to her a report of the general condition of the members. It is not the teachers' duty to inquire into conditions in the homes visited, but if they have earnestly studied the needs of each member, if they prayerfully desire to help, they will be able to interpret the needs of the family to the president. The strictest confidence is imposed upon the visiting teacher—she must never discuss conditions of homes visited. To do so is ample justification for her release from office. Visiting teachers have rare opportunity for growing spiritually; they rise to great heights by doing the simple, kindly things in the Master's way.
Sisters of the Relief Society! The office given to you is the opportunity to grow in intelligence and to gain that knowledge which will give you "advantage in the world to come". The degree of success depends upon your effort. The reward justifies your best endeavor.
"Welcome the task that makes you go beyond yourself, if you would grow."
THAT IS SUCCESS
Wealth, prowess, power, only the few attain, But this one triumph is denied to none, To say each night, computing loss and gain, "This was my task today, this I have done With all the power I could command, no less." That is success.
Time flies on phantom wings, But no man needs to count the passing years as forfeit quite. We live not in days but in deeds; Every passing year has left you in its flight New stores of wisdom, kindliness, tolerance, patience. That is success.
—Selected.