LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 9
PETER, THE HEAD OF THE CHURCH
HELPFUL REFERENCES
James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 692-694, 702-709, 2109, 680 Charles R. Brown, These Twelve, pp. 14-22. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, consult index under heading of Peter. C. E. Macartney, "Of Them He Chose Twelve," pp. 112-121. F. J. Mueller, Christ's Twelve, pp. 25-29.
THE Risen Lord Probes Peter's Heart.?The third manifestation of the risen Lord to his apostles was on the shores of the Sea of Galilee. (John 21:1, 14) Our Lord helped Peter and his associates to another miraculous draught of fishes. After dining on fish and bread that the Savior had prepared, Peter was subjected to a painful questioning by the Master. It was especially trying to Peter because he was by no means over the terrible remorse incident to his thrice denial of the Christ. "Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?" By "these" Jesus meant not fishes, as some have suggested, but Peter's fellow apostles. One can imagine how difficult it must have been for Peter to reply, "Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee." (John 21:15) Then came Christ's charge: "Feed my lambs." Peter is no longer referred to as a fisherman, but as a shepherd. The Savior asks Peter substantially the same question twice more. After Peter's agonized declarations of love for him, He added respectively the injunctions: "Tend my sheep" and "feed my sheep." We may justly infer from the Gospel narrative that the Christ gave Peter the formal call to be his earthly representative on the occasion referred to. In addition our Lord predicted to Peter?very tenderly we believe?the manner of his death. "Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdedst thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldst: but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldst not." (John 21:18) The Gospel then adds: "This spake he, signifying by what death he would glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me." This meeting of Christ and his apostles must have been a most solemn occasion. Peter knew that his Master had forgiven him and expected him to carry on as a true leader. In the end his love for the Christ would be manifested by martyrdom.
PETER Speaks on the Day of Pentecost.?In another lesson we dealt somewhat with the effects of the Holy Spirit on the apostles following the day of Pentecost. At this point we shall deal a little more in detail with the part Peter played in the drama of that eventful day. According to the Acts, when the Holy Spirit descended upon the disciples on the day of Pentecost, they began to speak in tongues. The resulting commotion was so great that Jews from all parts of the Mediterranean world (Acts 2:5-11), then staying in Jerusalem, came running to the spot. These were all amazed to hear their own language spoken by Galileans. "And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What meaneth this? Others mocking said, These men are full of new wine." (Acts 2:12, 13) Peter then arose to speak. He pointed out that those who were speaking in tongues were not drunk, for it was but 9:00 a. m. (Jews were not accustomed to drink so early in the day.) This unusual phenomenon, he said, was nothing more or less than a fulfillment of a prophecy made by Joel (2:28-32) many hundreds of years before. Joel had made reference to the fact that in the last days God would pour out his spirit upon all flesh and show marvels in the sky above and the earth beneath. Peter seized upon this passage as the quickest and most satisfactory way of explaining to the crowd an unusual spiritual phenomenon. As a matter of fact, his interpretation of the passage was not correct, for when the angel Moroni appeared to Joseph Smith, he quoted the very same passage from Joel and said that it was not yet fulfilled but soon would be. (See "Writings of Joseph Smith," 2:41 in Pearl of Great Price) How-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 203
ever, the scripture served Peter's purpose, and he went on from that point to interpret to the assemblage the meaning of the life and work of Jesus the Messiah. The multitude showed intense interest in Peter's remarks and asked guidance of him and his colleagues of the Twelve. The people were instructed to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, and there were three thousand souls added to the Church that day. (See Acts 2:14-41) It must have been a day of great rejoicing. The young Church of Christ had found itself. So had Peter. He was a new man. Gone was his fear, his timidity, lack of spiritual insight, and desire for political preferment.
All Things In Common.?Wise men through the centuries have attempted to solve the economic inequalities of society. So long as some people have much more of this world's goods than they need and others have less than they need, or even live in abject poverty and want, so long must the Church of Christ labor to solve the problem. Men are born unequal in respect to mentality and physical capacity. In a world shot through with pagan concepts and practices they are therefore found to be unequal in ability to acquire worldly substance. But the economic necessities of most men are roughly the same. When a man has less than a certain minimum of worldly goods, we know from experience that such a situation is liable to have far-reaching consequences in terms of crime, sickness, neglect, and other factors of direct concern to religion. The ancient Church was aware of this. It would appear to us that Peter was the lead-
204 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
er in instituting a new and limited economic order. The Acts gives us a very short account of what was done. Living as we do in a day when every conceivable economic panacea is being invoked, we should like to know the details of the ancient order. What we have is the following: "And all that believed were together, and had all things common; and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need: And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved." (Acts 2:44-47) How long did this order last? Was it successful? Did it spread into the various branches of the Church as Christian missionaries carried the Gospel to the known world? Was Peter given a special revelation by the Lord to institute it, or had the latter taught the substance of the order to the apostles during his three years' ministry? These are interesting questions, but their answers are yet to come. However, the administration of the order must have taxed the ability and ingenuity of Peter and his colleagues to the limit. The experience of the Church in this dispensation has given us some idea of the difficulties involved in the United Order.
PETER Opens the Door to the Gentiles.?One of the most important events in Peter's administration was that which made it possible for the Gospel to be carried to the Gentiles. Peter was the guest of Simon, a tanner, who lived at Joppa in a house near the sea. Hotels and inns were disreputable places, and he naturally sought hospitality in a private home. That Peter stayed at a tanner's house is an interesting fact in itself and shows how the spirit of love and democracy was brought about in the ancient Church. The Jews regarded the work of a tanner as absolutely unclean. "It is impossible," said a rabbi, "for the world to do without tanners; but woe to him who is a tanner." The Gospel caused Peter to judge men upon a much more substantial basis than their trade. It was while at Simon's home that he had the vision of the unclean animals. (See Acts 10:9-16) Peter was much perplexed over the vision and wondered what it might mean. The answer soon came when the Spirit sent him to accompany three men who had been sent by Cornelius, a centurion from Caesarea. When Peter arrived with his friends, he found Cornelius and others waiting for him. Cornelius related the story of how an angel had appeared and had instructed him to send for the apostle at Joppa. Peter then preached to those present. "Then Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons: but in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him." (Acts 10:34) The Holy Spirit fell on all who were present and there was another harvest of souls, for many were baptized at Peter's direction. (Acts 10:47, 48) The admission of Gentiles into the Church created a sensation among the Jewish Christians and some dissension. (Acts 11:1-18) This was but natural, for under the Law of Moses Jews were a "separate" people and had special laws defining their duties towards Gentiles. The Christians now began to see clearly that the Gospel of Christ had a universal character and could be preached to non-Jewish peoples.
PETER and Paul.?It is natural to speak of Peter and Paul together, for Peter opened the door for preaching the Gospel to the Gentiles and Paul became the fiery apostle to and champion of them. After Paul's conversion (Acts 9) he became the most brilliant expounder of Christianity. The contacts of Paul with Peter are few but interesting. Paul mentions the circumstances under which he first met Peter in his letter to the Galatians. "Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days." (Gal. 1:18) This meeting must have been an unusually interesting one,?Peter, the apostle and man of business, and Paul, scholar and orator. After fourteen years Paul went up to Jerusalem again. (Gal. 2:1) Apparently there was a dispute in the Church over keeping certain provisions of the Law of Moses. (See Gal. 2:1-10; Acts 15:1-29) Paul championed the cause of the Gentiles and was upheld by Peter. On another occasion, however, Peter displayed a weakness (characteristic enough) which Paul immediately noticed. "But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face, because he was to be blamed. For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the Gen-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 205
tiles; but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision.... I said unto Peter before them all, If thou, being a Jew, livest after the manner of Gentiles, and not as do the Jews, why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews." (Gal. 2:11-14) Evidently the lines of cleavage in the Church over the Law of Moses were so pronounced that Peter didn't have the courage to act according to what he knew was right. But the bold Paul didn't hesitate to tell Peter that he was in the wrong. Some think that Paul was a greater man than Peter and point to the above incident as one of the proofs. At this late date we do not know all of Peter's burdens. He was meeting tremendous problems, and the administration of the Church was a serious matter. Only a very great man could have shouldered the responsibility he did.
PETER'S Martyrdom.?Space prevents our treating other great events in Peter's life as we should like to do. According to tradition he met a martyr's death. The First Epistle of Clement of Rome says, "Let us set before our eyes the Good apostle Peter, who, through unrighteous envy, endured not one or two, but numerous labors, and having suffered martyrdom departed to the place of glory due him." Tertullian (about 200 A. D.) was the first writer to speak of Peter's death by crucifixion in Nero's reign. Origen says that "at last, having arrived in Rome, he was crucified head downwards, having himself requested that he might so suffer." Peter evidently
206 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
met death in his old age as the Christ had predicted. (John 21:18)
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits.)
1. On the day of Pentecost great numbers of people were brought into the Church. What apostle in this dispensation brought great numbers into the Church in a short time?
2. Why do you suppose the Savior allowed Peter, Paul, and others to preach to the Gentiles, but did not do so himself?
3. Read I Cor. 9:5 and comment on the probable difficulties and trials of Peter, his colleagues, and their families.
4. Have some one in the class prepare a summary of the teachings in the two Epistles of Peter. (We assume here that Peter wrote both of them. Some scholars deny that he wrote either.)
5. Read Gal. 2:11-14 and II Peter 3:15-17 and comment on the traits of Peter's character shown therein.
6. What work did Peter do in this dispensation? (See D. & C. 27:12; 128:20)
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No.