HAPPENINGS
By Annie Wells Cannon
MARCH—Gladness comes from within and is a gracious gift.
CHARLOTTE, Emily and Anne Bronté are to be honored with a memorial in Westminster Abbey—the highest distinction Great Britain bestows on its gifted sons and daughters. When a book stands the test of years in the choice of the intellectual public, it becomes a classic. This is true of the works of the Bronté sisters, especially of Charlotte's Jane Eyre and of Emily's Wuthering Heights. The latter is listed among the very few best novels by the critic and novelist W. Somerset Maugham in a recent article on books.
ELEANOR PATTERSON, connected with newspapers all her life, and director of the Chicago Tribune Company and New York Daily News Company, has recently purchased the Washington Herald and the Washington Times—a great venture for a woman.
MARGARET BYERS advises women to "Dress in tempo with your temperament" in her book Designing Women. She is considered one of the best authorities on the art, technique, and cost of being beautiful.
SARAH JOSEPHA HALE, besides being the first woman editor in America, is responsible for Thanksgiving Day as a national holiday, the movement to make Mount Vernon a national memorial, the addition of "lingerie" to our vocabulary and the elimination of the word "female" from the facade of Vassar College. Newspapers are fine weapons for accomplishment. The name of the Relief Society was changed from "Female" to "Woman's" Relief Society in 1872, word being sent to the branches through the columns of the Woman's Exponent, edited by Emmeline B. Wells.
BALLADINE BELL COUTTS of Logan, Utah, was one of six winners of Dramatists Guild fellowships—a grant of $1,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation for encouragement of dramatic art.
GRACE CANDLAND JACOBSEN of Provo, Utah has been invited to contribute some of her beautiful poems to the Bozart Westminster, a quarterly magazine of the University Press, Georgia.
NANCY RICH PUGMIRE, 84, of Idaho, Elizabeth Palmer Frost, 94, of Utah, and Mary J. Ransome, 85, of Arizona are among the notable women and Relief Society workers who died this last winter.
MARIA M. JOHNSON of Mount Pleasant, poetess and contributor to western publications, died recently in her southern California home.
MAUD ADAMS, after 20 years, appeared before a limited audience on the Town Hall stage, New York. In recounting incidents of her theatrical career, she said of all her parts Peter Pan was her favorite.
 
THE GENERAL BOARD
Jennie B. Knight Amy Whipple Evans Emma A. Empey Rosannah C. Irvine Annie Wells Cannon Nettie D. Bradford Lalene H. Hart Ida P. Beal Cora L. Bennion Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman