9
Healthy Mental Attitudes as Taught by Jesus
PAUL, an apostle of Jesus Christ, says, "For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind." (II Tim. 1:7) "The health of mind of an individual will depend upon the emotional attitudes developed. Some are fundamentally unhealthy; some are decidedly wholesome." (Ligon) Jesus' teachings clearly indicate those attitudes which are mentally healthy and which are the basis for building strong personalities that will stand against strong trials.
The attitude of faith in a fatherly God is suggested by "Our Father" from the Lord's Prayer. This relationship creates a feeling that we are loved; a sense that all is well, which minimizes the harassing effects of fear on the mind. This encourages faith in oneself, reducing fear of personal failure. Jesus did not say MY Father. All are His children, all brothers and sisters. Faith in the worthiness of humanity is an impetus to serve the common good. Social interest, a healthy attitude, is expressed in "Love thy neighbor as thyself." Alertness to the needs of others leaves no room for mental disorders through self-pity or excessive introspection. Giving through genuine love strikes at selfishness and at the danger of mental unbalance caused by the greed of getting. "Love thine enemies," Jesus taught. We cannot love our enemies and at the same time be sick with hate, anger, envy and suspicion. If we forgive freely, if we judge not, we are not apt to be victims of a consuming bitterness of mind, or acid retaliation. If our motives for high personal achievement are guided by a desire
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 207
to better serve our fellows, we shall have healthier mental attitudes. Jesus said, "Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which builds his house on a rock."
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by the ward.