Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 9
The Late Nineteenth Century to Date
THE novel, on account of its length and very structure, is admirably adapted to a world which is rapidly becoming adult. In it, the author, if he really has anything to say, has space in which to say it and an audience to which to speak. The novel is the inside history of events and people. It is history built from the inside out, and therefore, is of great importance to any age.
"Stevenson was thirty years old when George Eliot died," said Professor Phelps. That young man stood ready to build a new literary tradition. The realism of his predecessors was to give way to a new and gorgeous romanticism, though a restrained one, that places the novels of Stevenson in the front ranks of books of their kind in all the world. Stevenson, a painstaking worker, produced his great romantic novels, one after the other, setting a new pattern for lesser people to follow. His Treasure Island, Kidnapped, St. Ives, and other stories, became the fashion of his generation. They are still held to be classics of the language.
This new type of romantic fiction is suggested by Phelps in the following quotation: "Of all modern authors, Stevenson is the best for youth. Our boys and girls follow the arch-magician from wonder to wonder, and they learn the delight of reading, and they absorb the beauty of style, as one learns good manners by associating with well-bred exemplars. For Henry James describing a lady serving tea on an English lawn is not more careful with his language than Stevenson describing one-legged Silver in the act of murder. Stevenson was purely literary; he was not a great dramatist nor a great poet, though he wrote verses and plays; but it is
208 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
abundantly clear that he was a great novelist, essayist, and maker of epistles. In these three departments he stands in the first rank."
Stevenson, always sickly, died at an early age in 1894. Almost immediately thereafter a sweeping romantic revival got under way that flooded the markets of the world with romantic tales. Many of these made excellent reading for pastime only. Among these which all of us can easily remember were fast-moving stories like The Prisoner of Zenda, which has recently had a notable revival on the screen, When Knighthood Was in Flower, and the Graustark stories which had such a vogue nearly a quarter of a century ago. During that revival, too, the detective story had a revival in the Sherlock Holmes series and the Raffles tales by Doyle and Hornung, respectively. These stories, though light and passing in nature, made interesting reading; and many of us will remember hours of pleasure contributed by stories such as have been mentioned, as well as by many similar ones written about the same time in America.
Romanticism and realism, however, are usually to be found at the same time among men, although during different periods one or the other will have the ascendency according to the greatness of the writers. At the same time, therefore, that these stories mentioned here were being written, a greater school of writers was busy upon what Professor Phelps is pleased to call "life" novels, a sort of reformed realism. Notable among these writers of the so-called "life" novels are William DeMorgan, Arnold Bennett, H. G. Wells, and others in England. All of these men wrote creditable novels which are already, in some cases, safely nominated for a position among the classics.
Arnold Bennett made an unusual stir with his Old Wives' Tale; and H. G. Wells did much writing, especially in the field of the so-called experimental novel. Probably the man who looms greatest among the English novelists of recent times is Thomas Hardy, although Professor Phelps gives to Hardy's contemporary, George Meredith, a place close beside him. Phelps, a Victorian at heart, likes the "buoyant philosophy" of Meredith better than the pagan philosophy of Hardy. He admits, however, that Meredith's style is often "perfectly opaque" and acts as "a hedge between him and his reader". So true is that statement that comparatively few, other than the scholars, spend much time with Meredith. "Meredith," says Phelps, "himself was a thousand times more interesting than any of his works." Many readers will agree. On the other hand, Hardy's novels are most interesting even though his philosophy is stern and unyielding. To him, man is in the unseeing, unfeeling hands of an inexorable fate. As Phelps puts it: "In Hardy's eyes, we are mere bits of the vast machine; we have no more influence than the spoke of a fly-wheel; we do not have to wait until we are dead before we are rolled round with rocks, and stones, and trees."
For the benefit of those who may not have an opportunity to read Phelps, the following bit is included: "Thomas Hardy's superiority as a novelist over George Meredith consists mainly in three things: the perfection of constructive power (no novelist was ever a better architect), the beautiful stately march of his style (First chapter of Return of the Native, or Gabriel Oak telling time by the stars), and the universal character of his dramatis personae." "... Of all living English novelists (Hardy is now dead)," says Phelps, "none can possibly be considered his rival. We may indeed truthfully omit the word English; there is no writer in the world today whose prose fiction is of equal value."
Three of Hardy's novels have won almost universal acclaim?Return of the Native, Far From the Madding Crowd, and Tess of the D'Urbervilles. Phelps likes the first best, the writer likes Tess best. It is a wonderfully constructed piece of artistic writing.
The twentieth century has seen the rise of many writers among whom are to be found several women novelists who may one day take their places among the revered writers of their sex. In order to avoid confusing the reader, it may be wise to close this particular discussion of the novel with Thomas Hardy. He lived to a good, ripe age, gave us many poems, essays, and novels and has gone to his reward. It is safe to say that he will always rank as one of England's very greatest novelists. Some critics are already willing to assign to him first place. Whether he is eventually to occupy that position only the passing years can determine.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 209
A GLANCE at Chapter 9 in The Advance of the English Novel will reveal the names of many novelists of England not mentioned in this brief discussion. Many of them, as well as many whom Professor Phelps has not named at all, would be worthy of notice if there were room.
Suggestions
1. Read chapters 5, 6, 7, 8 of The Advance of the English Novel.
2. Read passages from Stevenson's Treasure Island as examples of his style.
3. Read from chapter 1 of The Return of the Native by Thomas Hardy to get an idea of his style.
4. Brief book reviews of novels by Wells, Bennett, DeMorgan, Galsworthy, etc., would be appropriate.
5. Review the definitions of a novel found in Lesson 1 of this course.
6. Wilber L. Cross gives a list of twenty-five prose fictions in his book The Development of the English Novel, Macmillan. They are Le Morte d'Arthur by Malory; Rosalind by Thomas Lodge; Pilgrim's Progress by Bunyan; Robinson Crusoe by Defoe; Roderick Random by Smollett; Clarissa Harlow by Richardson; Tom Jones by Fielding; Tristram Shandy by Sterne; The Vicar of Wakefield by Goldsmith; Castle Rackrent by Edgeworth; Pride and Prejudice by Austen; Waverly by Scott; Kenilworth by Scott; The Pathfinder by Cooper (American); The Scarlet Letter by Hawthorne (American); Pelham by Bulwer-Lytton; David Copperfield by Dickens; Vanity Fair by Thackeray; Barchester Towers by Trollope; Jane Eyre by Bront?; Adam Bede by Eliot; the
210 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Ordeal of Richard Feverel by Meredith; Return of the Native by Hardy; Treasure Island by Stevenson; The Brushwood Boy by Kipling. Another critic might have changed some of these novels, but certainly all critics would have agreed on the majority of them as showing the development of the English novel.