Emma Smith Church Hymns By Audentia Smith Anderson (Granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Emma Smith) EMMA HALE was born July 10, 1804, at Harmony, Pennsylvania, and on January 18, 1827, became the wife of Joseph Smith, founder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From that day she was his faithful companion, counselor and helpmate, sharing fully in the toils, dangers and privations of his short but eventful life. Accompanying him on the memorable night in September, 1827, when he received, from an angelic messenger on Hill Cumorah, the ancient records of the Book of Mormon, from that moment she gave him full measure of sympathetic, intelligent cooperation in his efforts to preserve and translate them and to obey faithfully further commands of God. Many pages of the manuscript from which the first copy of the Book was printed are in her own clear, feminine handwriting, mute testimony today of her consecrated assistance in the task God had given her husband to do. That this writing must be done in the brief interims between busy household and farm duties, and despite weariness, or distress of body attendant upon child-bearing, only serves to emphasize the fine quality of her loyalty to the man of her choice and his Godappointed mission. It was fitting, therefore, that soon after the organization of the Church and her own baptism, she should receive, through him, a communication from the Lord. The message. Was one of encouragement and comfort, and served to strengthen her faith and reliance upon God, and her determination to, serve Him to the end of her life. A specific commission laid upon her in this divine message, however, directed her to make a selection of hymns for the use of the Church; "my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads," said the Lord. Happily and with all diligence she entered upon the task assigned, applying herself with such zeal, despite arduous toil and poverty, frequent removals from one home to another, occasional weakness of body (her twins were born the following April and her son Joseph late in 1832) and unremitting assistance given her husband in his various enterprises, that in less than two years she had made a sizable collection. In May, 1832, a council of the Church "ordered that W. W. Phelps correct and prepare the hymns which have been selected by Emma Smith in fulfillment of the revelation." The following month there appeared, in Independence, Missouri, the first issue of The Evening and Morning Star, in which number some hymns were printed, presumably from her collection. Other hymns followed in the monthly periodical during the year, but in July, 1833, the printing press and much material were destroyed. Up to the time of that regrettable event 26 hymns had been printed, but there is no evidence that an attempt had been made to put them into the form of a book. The printing of the revelations, which was begun, 164 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE would doubtless have been given precedence over the publication of a songbook. Emma's collection made prior to this disaster must have been lost or destroyed, for after Brother Phelps returned to Kirtland, and the High Council organized in 1834, among the minutes of that body is' recorded, dated September 14, 1835: "Emma Smith was appointed to make a selection of sacred hymns, to be arranged and revised for printing by W. W. Phelps." Accordingly a collection was published under the title: "A Selection of Sacred Hymns, by Emma Smith," - and contained go songs. This may have been the "L. D. S. Collection" from which were chosen the hymns sung at the dedication of the Temple, in March, 1836, which are referred to by page numbers in the minutes of that historical event. Troubled years followed. With three small children Emma went from Ohio to Missouri, from which state, later, under the shameful extermination order of its Governor, she fled to Illinois, her little flock now numbering four. The same year of the settlement at Nauvoo, 1839, the Joint Council voted "that Sister Emma Smith select and publish a hymnbook for the use of the church," and in 1841 this was done. It was of "'vest-pocket" size and contained 304 hymns, among which were many that are: still familiarly sung in our churches. Emma was well educated for the times in which she lived, and used discriminating and admirable taste in choosing her songs. Some were old standard favorites in use in other denominations, but many were written by various members of the Church for use on special occasions, or under the gentle impulsion of divine inspiration. Her ability along musical lines— or was it a gift bestowed when she was divinely called to the work?— was recognized by the Reorganized Church, which she joined in 1860, and she was requested to make a selection of hymns. This she did, and a collection of 249 hymns was published. Three years later another edition, consisting of 286 hymns, was printed—a result, doubtless, wholly or in part, of her interested labors. Emma Smith possessed an unusually fine voice. Often in the assemblies of the Saints she would accompany the congregational singing with an improvised obligato, her clear, high soprano soaring, true and beautiful, above the harmonies of the ensemble tones below. Fond of music, she sang about her work, with her children and neighbors. Often of an evening a small group of friends, gathered in her home or on its porch, would comfort and encourage themselves and each other by singing together the songs of Zion. 'This love of music she bequeathed to her children, and children's children. Her youngest son, David, was called ""The Sweet Singer of Israel," his gift expressing itself both in songs and poems. Emma's oldest son, my father, shared his mother's love for music and song, and gave his children such advantages of study along those lines he could afford. His own voice, much like his mother's, had that peculiar, vibrant, ringing quality that made it easily heard even in the songs of large assemblies.