Notes FROM THE FIELD
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Wells Stake
THE Arch of Progress program of Wells Stake Relief Society, launching a campaign for 1,000 members by the end of June, 1939, was held Thursday afternoon, October 23, in the Whittier Ward chapel. The Arch symbolized the steady membership growth of the Organization during the past 96 years. The program was planned to encourage and inspire the women of Wells Stake to carry on the noble work and to enlist every woman within the boundary lines of the stake in the service of this great Society. The program featured the creation of Wells Stake Relief Society in 1932 with Sister Marie Tanner as the first president. General President Louise Y. Robison and Sister Amy W. Towler, present president, were also honored. Appropriate and inspiring addresses were given, and beautiful vocal and instrumental music was rendered. Stake President E. Towler, former General Board Member Sarah M. McLelland, and Bishops William A. Bateman and Fred W. Schwendiman were among a small but stalwart band of men in attendance. The program was conducted by Eva C. Heiner and Lorena W. Anderson of the Relief Society Stake Presidency. Refreshments were served following the program.
The auspicious launching of the drive has been followed by intensive effort on the part of every ward. The quota of 1,000 members has already been reached, and it is expected that this number will be considerably increased by June.
To successfully put over the Membership Drive in the stake an award was offered to the ward that reached its quota first. The same idea was carried out in one of the wards, which proved to be very stimulating and successful: The ward was divided into districts, and prizes given to the district supervisor and to the two workers in the district enrolling the most new members.
196 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
[LEFT, LUCINDA GUSTAFSON. RIGHT, MARY L. RANSOM]
St. Joseph Stake
AMONG the delightful reports of stake activities comes the following account of the St. Joseph Stake: "With the idea of increasing enrollment and stimulating attendance, the St. Joseph Stake Relief Society held a party on August 23. Every married woman in the stake was invited to come and bring her daughters. Each ward was called upon to give one or more numbers on the program. The Stake Board offered four prizes: one for the oldest mother, one for the youngest, one for the mother having the most daughters and one for the grandmother having the most granddaughters present. The Central Ward, which has an enrollment of about 65, carried off the first three prizes; and the Eden Ward, which has
[PAULINE COOMBS, AGE 87]
about half that enrollment, took the fourth prize. The oldest mother was Mrs. Pauline Coombs, who was 87; and Melba Layton, aged 16, was the youngest mother. Mrs. Alice Dodge, president of the Central Ward Relief Society, had seven daughters present, while Mrs. Frances Hancock of the Eden Ward carried off the granddaughter prize, having 17 granddaughters present.
"Other interesting facts were learned at the party. There were present eight mothers who were over 80 years of age, four mothers who had been in the Relief Society for sixty years, and ten mothers who had worked in the Relief Society for forty years. Sister Mary Ransom, a member of the original St. Joseph Stake Relief Society Board, was present and also her sister, Mrs. Lucinda Gustafson, who was a member of the second organization of the St. Joseph Stake Relief Society.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 197
"The party was held in the afternoon on the Thatcher Ward lawn, and each guest was served with ice cream and cookies. It was estimated there were about one thousand in attendance. It was a most satisfying sight to watch old friends shake hands who had not met for years. The stake officers felt the entertainment was most worth while and hope to make it an annual affair."
San Bernardino Stake
THE following interesting report from the San Bernardino Stake is suggestive of the results that may follow Relief Society General Conferences: "While enjoying the very delightful Relief Society General Conference, we conceived the idea of coming back to our stake and holding, as nearly as possible, a similar convention. We were very careful in our note taking and in listing the songs and poems used. As soon as possible
[WORK AND BUSINESS ACTIVITY, SAN BERNARDINO WARD]
after returning, we held our convention, calling it a Conference Report Convention. All of our wards were represented by large numbers. Each board member reported the department assigned to her. The spirit of the Lord was with us, a kindly feeling prevailed, and ward workers have reported that they felt almost as if they had attended General Conference themselves.
"Sunday, November 20, singing groups were organized in each ward. We were thrilled with a group of sixty Singing Mothers from our
198 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stake, who furnished four numbers for the stake Priesthood conference. The group was also asked to sing two numbers at the Municipal Auditorium for the Covered Wagon Days' program, conducted under the auspices of the Community Church Service, at which President Grant and Elder Richard R. Lyman were guest speakers. We are most happy for the opportunity that was ours.
"The Work and Business meetings this year are being enjoyed very much. The above picture was taken at the San Bernardino Ward on Work and Business day.
"Our stake leader suggested that each ward have a contest, displaying a centerpiece for a Thanksgiving table. The displays were attractive, and members received many excellent ideas for beautiful Thanksgiving tables. Some of the wards also exchanged Thanksgiving recipes.
"Most of our wards have an all-day Work meeting, where much sewing is accomplished."
Carbon Stake
THE following is a report of the Carbon Stake Relief Society Membership Drive, launched November 1 and closed December 10: "Our first point of contact was a talk given in the Sacrament meetings, where we tried to convert every one to the mission of our Organization and create a receptive attitude. We took an entire program, including an orchestra, to some of the wards. After we felt we had accomplished our purpose, we asked that the most enthusiastic members be appointed to meet with us at our first Union meeting.
"We decided to use a Membership Arch, divided into four distinctive units, and at the end of the four years to use the completed Arch as a grand finale of the drive. The first year's activity was to be symbolized by a baby whom the General Board had left in our care for normal development. We wanted the baby to grow during the year until it compared favorably with the excellent program offered by the Organization. We demonstrated this with a skit. In each ward increased membership was to be symbolized with the idea of developing a baby. This idea made so great an appeal to the mothers that it was decided that every member could contribute to the growth of the baby by being responsible for enrolling a new member. Of course, each new member must understand the three requisites for membership and be acquainted with all phases of the work.
"For the Union meeting a special preliminary program was planned, each of the seventeen wards of the stake being represented by a girl. With marching and song, they dropped a bag containing their per cents into the stake bag. This was a competitive program and had the desired effect.
"The wards held receptions, giving a prize to the individual bringing in the most new members. These were followed by a stake reception at which time a hymn book was given to each of the six wards having the highest percentage of membership increase.
"At the stake reception we found that our Membership Baby had attained four years' growth in one year and that every ward in the stake had reached its quota, some going over. We returned this baby to Sister Cora L. Bennion of the General Board, who was our conference visitor, with a copy of the quotas up to that time.
"The Stake Presidency met with us and were pleased with our efforts.
"The drive was a very satisfying piece of work to every one concerned. It created such a spirit of good comradeship and fun that we still hear the echoes, and the ranks are still swelling. We feel that it has done much to help the wards in the Carbon Stake."
Kolob Stake
WE are indebted to Sister Retta R. Harmer, Secretary, for the following fine report of a garden project in Kolob Stake. We print it as a fine suggestion to other stakes: "Planned for the purpose of stimulating interest in raising better and larger gardens for family use both in winter and summer months, Kolob Stake Relief Society sponsored an outstanding garden contest the past season.
"Under the direction of President Hannah Clyde, who initiated plans for the contest, Mrs. Prudence Palfreyman, also of the stake presidency and W. H. Anderson of the high school agriculture department, visits were made during the summer to the gardens entered, and accurate ac-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 199
counts of produce from these were kept.
"At the close of the season, directors of the contest as well as entrants were enthusiastic over the results of the garden project and expressed a desire to make it a larger and better enterprise the coming year. Four prizes were awarded. Still more and better vegetable and flower gardens in this vicinity next year is the aim of the Relief Society, and plans are now being formulated to conduct another contest the coming season.
"Beginning early in the spring, a series of meetings to instruct contest entrants on various phases of gardening will be held from time to time, and garden tours will be conducted during the summer. Regular forms on which entrants may keep an itemized account of their garden production will be distributed, and several fine prizes are to be given at the close of the season for the best garden projects.
"Judging will be based on production, appearance, care and other items. It is also planned to have gardens grouped according to size and type to further facilitate fair judging. Mrs. Clyde, Mrs. Palfreyman and Mr. Anderson will again have the enterprise in charge."