OR The Body's Need For Mineral Salts By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe—University of Utah O refresh the reader's mind the T writer repeats that the three general purposes for which the body needs food are: to supply heat and energy with which to maintain the body temperature, and to supply the energy for the internal and external work; to supply building material for growth and for the maintenance and repair of the body tissues; to regulate the body processes. We learned that energy and heat are obtained from all of our foodstuffs: the carbohydrates (starches and sugars), fats and proteins. The body's chief sources of building material are proteins (meat, eggs, milk, cheese, nuts) and mineral salts. Water, vitamins and energy are also necessary for body building and tissue repair. Materials needed for the regulation of the body processes are obtained from all of our natural foods. COMPOSITION of the Human Body The human body is made up of approximately twenty elements. By elements is meant the simplest forms in which materials appear. These elements are named in the order of the greatest amounts found in the elementary composition of the body:* Oxygen, Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, Calcium, Phosphorus, Potassium, Sulphur, Sodium, Chlorine, Magnesium, Iodine, Copper. Many other elements are found in the body, and even though they Chemistry of Foods and Nuttition, Sherman. Appear only in very small amounts, they are important. SPECIF IC Needs of the Body for Mineral Salts 1. To Build and Maintain Body Tissues. Just as a building needs a strong foundation and a sturdy framework to support the weight that will be superimposed upon them just so does the body need a strong, well-formed skeletal or bony structure to carry the weight of the body and to protect its internal organs. In order to build this skeleton, mineral salts are necessary, the most important ones being calcium and phosphorus. A_ sturdy, wellformed skeleton is conducive to health and gives beauty of figure and graceful poise to the body. Mineral salts are necessary for the growth, development and maintenance of teeth. Mineral salts also enter into the composition of the soft tissues and fluids of the body but in much smaller amounts. 2. To Regulate the Body Functions. By regulating the body functions is meant the orderly working of the various cells, organs, glands, and fluids of the body. The internal work of the body is so intricate and so important to life itself that it must be accurately controlled. This control is largely the work of the mineral salts and the vitamins. Some of the important functions subject to mineral contro] are: (1) To make possible the ex- 182 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE change of body fluids from one part of the body to another. For example, the food that we eat is digested and changed into a soluble form within the digestive tract. This soluble food must then be carried through the walls of the intestines, and into the blood vessels which carry it to all parts of the body. Finally it passes through the cell walls, and it is in these cells that it is oxidized or burned. (2) To enable the muscles of the body to contract and expand, as in the beating of the heart, the breathing of the lungs and in the external work of the body. (3) Mineral salts help to make possible the oxidation or burning of our foodstuffs in the body cells. It is due to this function that the heat and energy bound up in our foods are released for the various uses of the body, such as maintaining the normal body temperature and performing the internal and external work done by the muscles. (4) One of the most important regulatory functions of the mineral salts is to maintain the normal, slightly alkaline condition of the blood and to give to the other secretions of the body their normal acidity or alkalinity. Some of the minerals, such as calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium are base forming or alkaline; and others, namely, phosphorus, sulphur, and chlorine are acid forming. By means of the interaction, largely of these minerals, the proper balance is maintained in the blood. It is vitally important to balance the diet in order that the body may have the right amount of acid forming and base forming foods which will insure the normal, slightly alkaline blood stream. Acid Forming Foods Meat (all kinds) Eggs Oysters Oatmeal Rice Wheat, whole Wheat flour White bread Base Forming Foods All fruits, except cranberries, prunes, rhubarb All vegetables Nuts, except peanuts Milk KINDS and Sources of Minerals Most Needed 1. Calcium an d_ Phosphorus. Among the inorganic elements, calcium and phosphorus hold first place. These two minerals are used together in forming bones and teeth. The bones contain 99 per cent of the calcium of the body and 70 per cent of its phosphorus. For normal bone structure a definite ratio between the calcium and phosphorus must be maintained. A disturbance of this ratio one way or the other will cause the disease known as rickets. (1) Special Functions of Calcium. Calcium has other important functions than bone and teeth building. It is necessary in regulating the action of the heart muscles. Calcium is necessary to the clotting of the blood. It preserves the normal response of nerve tissue to stimuli. Calcium is said to be the great regulator of all minerals in the body. Bones may be thought of as storehouses of calcium and phosphorus. 2 Chemistry of Foods and Nutrition, Sherman. This supply may be drawn upon temporarily when the diet does not supply sufficient amounts of these minerals for the body's needs. In growing children, where bones increase so rapidly in size, a liberal amount of both calcium and phosphorus must be supplied in the diet if strong healthy bones and sound teeth are to be formed. The amount of calcium required by adults as determined by H. C. Sherman is 0.68 grams daily; 1 gram daily for growing children; 1 gram daily during the last two months of pregnancy and 3 grams daily for the nursing mother. One quart of milk each day, together with other foods, fruits and vegetables suitable to the child's age, will insure an adequate amount of calcium. An adult should consume at least 1 pint of milk daily. (2) Foods Rich in Calcium Milk Cheese Hard water Vegetables, especially leafy Potatoes Egg yolk Nuts—almonds, Fruits Wheat bran (3) Foods Rich in Phosphorus Milk ~ Eggs Lean beef Wheat Dried beans Apples Oranges Bananas Cherries Dates Potatoes Carrots String beans (4) Special Functions of Phosphorus. Phosphorus is needed in all of the soft tissues of the body, hazelnuts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 183 particularly in the brain and nerve tissue. The amount of phosphorus trequired daily by the adult is 1.32 grams and for growing children 1.5 grams. Phosphorus is much more widely distributed in both the animal and vegetable foods than is calcium. It is much more difficult, unless milk is used liberally in the diet, to supply the required amount of calcium than it is to supply phosphorus. 2. Iron. Iron is one of the most important minerals in the body even though it is required in relatively small amounts. The principle function of iron is as a constituent of the red blood cells. Without iron these red cells cannot be formed. Oxygen is carried by these red cells to all the tissues of the body where it burns the food, thus releasing the heat and energy that was stored in the food. The heat is used to maintain the normal body temperature, and the energy is used to perform the internal and external work of the body. Oxygen must be constantly supplied to all of the body tissues in order to sustain life. Iron deficiency is intimately connected with the disease anemia, which means that the blood does not contain a normal number of ted blood cells. This condition is very often brought about by an insufficient amount of iron in the diet. In many young, growing people, we note listlessness and lack of pep which is often attributed to laziness. As a matter of fact, the real cause may be too few red blood cells to act as carriers of oxygen to the body tissue so that the food can be burned and yield heat and energy. 184 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The body possesses little ability to store iron, so the daily diet must include the body's needs. This element is so important that Nature safeguards the welfare of the infant by storing sufficient iron in the liver during the fetal life to last the baby until it is old enough to cat foods rich in iron. Milk is deficient in iron. The amount of iron needed daily by an adult is 15 milligrams. Growing children require much more than adults. It is now thought that inorganic iron can be used by the body, provided copper is also present. As a general rule, it is better to provide a diet that will meet the nutritional needs for the minerals and vitamins; but occasionally the diet can be supplemented to advantage with inorganic mineral and the synthetic vitamins for the natural vitamins in capsule form. It has been determined that copper is necessary in order that the body may be able to use the iron. Foods rich in iron and copper arranged in the order of greatest amounts are: Tron ° Beef liver Chicken liver Beef muscle Apricots Peaches Raisins Apples Prunes Raspberries Spinach Beet greens Cheese Whole grains Copper Fresh calf liver Beef liver Nuts Dried beans and peas Whole cereals Dried fruits, especially yellow Poultry Fish Meat Green string beans and peas Leafy vegetables Fresh fruits, especially yellow 3. Iodine is necessary to the manufacture of thyroxin, a secretion of the thyroid gland. Thyroxin helps to regulate the rate at which the body burns the food. When there is insufficient iodine in the diet, the thyroid gland enlarges in order to provide a greater area through which the blood can flow and thus give the gland a better chance to secrete a greater amount of iodine. Women and adolescent girls are particularly susceptible to the enlargement of the thyroid gland when they live in a region where the iodine content is low in the water and soil. Utah water and soil are very defcient in iodine, thus the vegetables, cereals and fruits grown here are deficient in this element. Fruits and vegetables grown on the Pacific coast and trucked into Utah are rich in, iodine and have done much to relieve the people in the State of this disease. Inorganic iodine is often administered under the direction of a physician. Iodized salt is quite generally used for table salt. This also should be used only upon the advice of a physician, as toxic goiters are made worse by its use. Foods Rich in Iodine (where soil is not depleted of iodine) Sea foods, fresh and canned Iodized salt Vegetables Fruits Whole cereals 4. Other Minerals. Potassium and magnesium are important in nutrition. These minerals appear abundantly in a wide variety of plant and animal foods, so a diet adequate in other respects will contain an adequate amount of these minerals. Sodium chloride or common salt is extremely important in controlling body functions. This mineral is widely distributed in our foods. The practice of adding salt to our food as a condiment insures an adequate amount. The excessive use of salt should be discouraged. EFFECTS of An Insufficient ~ Amount of Minerals When one or more minerals are present in the diet in an insufficient amount, serious defects in body development and in the maintenance of body processes result. Deficiencies of different minerals produce different symptoms as follows: Calcium and Phosphorus, stunted growth, soft, imperfectly formed bones, poor, badly shaped teeth and rickets. Iron, anemia. Iodine, enlargement of the thyroid gland. GUIDES for Insuring a Sufficient Amount of Minerals in the Diet Milk and other dairy products, buttermilk, cheese, etc., should be used liberally in the diet of both RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 185 adults and children. Dr. Sherman suggests that as a measure of safety every growing child should have a quart of milk daily and adults one pint daily. Fruits and vegetables of all kinds should be used liberally. It is advisable to use fewer potatoes and more green vegetables. Fresh, green vegetables and the yellow fruits are the richest sources of the mineral salts. In order to insure an adequate supply of vegetables and fruits for all year use, the canned foods should be used. Eggs should appear frequently in the diet alternating with meat. Whole cereals are a good source of mineral salts. Cereals Made up of Whole Grains Oatmeal Puffed wheat Shredded wheat Whole cracked wheat Dark Farina Wheatena Grahain mush Whole rice Highly Refined Cereals Cream of Wheat Light Farina Corn flakes Cornmeal, white Hominy Grapenuts Pearled barley White rice Puffed rice Nutrition and Physical Fitness, Bogart.