Education for Family Life
FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
Lesson 6
Relationship of Children in the Home
By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.)
AT successive periods the child has three different relationships to the home. First, he must become adjusted to the home his parents have created. Then, he must break away from that home. Finally, he must go out and establish a home of his own. Obviously, this demands a high degree of flexibility and adjustability on the part of the young, favored by a high degree of sympathy, understanding, and good management on the part of their seniors.
I. THE child must become adjusted to his own home. This phase of the life process has received attention in the first four lessons of this series. In the light of what lies ahead of him, it is obvious that the child can not afford to become too well adjusted to his home; he must never be too dependent. His natural tendency, almost from birth, is toward eventual emancipation. It becomes strikingly manifest from the age of four or five when he goes into the "negativistic stage" that often worries his mother,?the stage of responding to every request with "I won't". He is trying to assert himself as an individual, and (within limits!) he ought to. For this reason, parents must ever be alert not to let security take the place of growth, but to keep the two well balanced.
II. THE child must then, break away from his own home. Sometimes this phase of adolescence creates serious disturbances in the family. It may end in juvenile delinquency, runaway marriages, and other behavior problems. Normally, however, it should be such a gradual process that there is no abrupt break or shock. Older studies described adolescence as a time of great stress and mental turmoil, during which the boy or girl went through various crises. While this sometimes hap-
pens, all recent studies indicate that this is not the normal picture. The adolescent tends to move along a fairly smooth path, unless his parents make it too rough for him. The striking tendency toward religious doubt or religious fervor, toward dramatic "conversions" in particular, seems not to be experienced unless as a result of outside pressure. If sound patterns of religious life have been built up in the years before adolescence, youth is likely to go through the succeeding years with a minimum of doubt and agitation. I do not mean to say that the adolescent has no conflicts, for we all have. I merely mean that they are not as sensational as sometimes supposed. He has many inevitable conflicts, as for instance, between his own desire for self-assertion and independence, on the one hand, and a carry-over of habits of submission, obedience, conformity to family ways, on the other. He also has a consciousness of childishness, and a strong desire to throw this off.
In a general way, the adolescent's life is marked by three new trends:
1. Expansion of his social world. He begins to read something more than the "funnies" in the newspapers. He begins to take an interest in politics, in labor questions, in matters of church organization and policy, in literature, art, and music, to a greater degree than ever before. He begins to get acquainted with more people, to observe more and think more. This wider view makes him more "family conscious," more sensitive to the difference between his own family and others. If he can be
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 211
proud of this difference, he will be greatly helped. On the other hand, if he comes to understand that the ideals, the standards, the practices of his family are not a credit to him, he can not help being resentful, disillusioned, and sometimes vindictive. Parents will help in this important period of growth by furnishing social opportunities, promoting free discussion of controversial subjects in the home, and by having the boy or girl participate in as many constructive phases of the world's work as possible. It is important not to leave youth standing around the edge, a mere onlooker. It must assume responsibilities for its appropriate share of the work of the world, especially at this period when it is beginning to show a real concern over such things.
As part of this general expansion of the horizon, young people need to feel that they are accepted by the group outside their home. In other words, they must make friends and have a wide range of acquaintances, associated with the feeling that they are "acceptable," well-thought-of by those whose opinion they value. Studies show that such popularity belongs to those who are courteous, helpful, co-operative, considerate of others, honest, unselfish, and self-controlled; who show qualities of leadership; and who do not bluff, bully, "show off," quarrel, carry grudges, think they are "picked on," try to evade responsibility or "alibi" themselves, domineer over others, or show too great dependence on others. These qualities (which are equivalent to emotional maturity) can not
212 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
be picked up overnight; they are the products of parental training from birth onward, which at this period will begin to produce "social dividends" for their possessors.
2. Increasing interest in the other sex. This again has been discussed in Lesson Four. Parents must be patient and sympathetic with the manifestations of youthful infatuation, must promote an adequate social life under wholesome auspices, as through church organizations, and must particularly avoid anything like ridicule. If undesirable associations are formed, opposition and antagonism may only make the young people more determined. Provision of plenty of more desirable and interesting associations will usually enable the good to drive out the bad.
3. Emancipation from parents. Many parents find this process of "psychological weaning" much harder on them than on the children. Some are excessively lenient,?usually a reaction from their own childhood, in which they now feel that they were held down too strictly. But the main danger is of the parents' refusal to give up control, which may be due to such causes as the following:
(a) The parents are reaching an age at which any kind of change causes mental discomfort,?a characteristic of the aged.
(b) They don't trust the results of their own rearing of their children; are afraid the young people are not prepared to stand alone but will fall as soon as support is withdrawn. In such a case, the parents should have begun the withdrawal process much earlier, since it must always be gradual. It's too late now,?they'll have to let the young people go steadily out toward self-dependence.
(c) Parents love a feeling of power, and dominance over their own offspring is one way to gratify it.
(d) Parents are disappointed in their own lives and want to live them over again, vicariously and more satisfactorily, in their children. Thus a father may insist that his son (who wants to be an irrigation engineer) become a lawyer, merely because the father himself always aspired to be a lawyer, but was a farmer instead.
(e) Parents are lonesome. They have not built up enough interests outside the home, and feel panicky at the thought of losing their main interest in life, their children. This is a common cause of interference by a mother-in-law: she simply hasn't anything on her mind, so takes too much interest in the affairs of the young people.
(f) Occasionally parents don't want their children to grow up, because this will make the parents themselves feel that they are old. They are clinging in an infantile way to a semblance of youth, because they are so immature emotionally.
(g) Sometimes parents keep a child dependent because the child is financially valuable,?a girl helping her mother in the home, a boy assisting his father in business or farming. If the child were allowed to go out and live his own life, the parent would have to hire an assistant; and "business is business".
In short, failure of psychological weaning or emancipation of the young is the fault of the parent, not the child. Its effects are so farreaching and disastrous that every parent should begin, almost from the birth of a child, to prepare it for future departure from the parental home and parental dominance. III. THE child must establish a new home on his own account. Success in this undertaking, again, is dependent on everything that has gone before. It can not be learned as some trick that might be taught a few months before marriage. If home, school, and church have not built up the right attitudes over a period of many years, the young will be left to get their education from the movies, the radio crooners, and the newspaper headlines describing divorce scandals. Inevitably, the young people will then carry into marriage attitudes of pessimism, of cynicism, of defeatism, which will make success difficult. If, on the other hand, the home, the school, and the church have built up in the young an attitude of determined idealism, a feeling that the founding of a new home is the most important job they will ever undertake, that they will exhaust all the resources of religion and science to make it a success, that they will let nothing but a catastrophe interfere with success,? then they will make a success of the new home, as they would make a success of anything they approached in the same spirit. Questions. And Problems 1. A mother says, "Of course, my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 213 married daughter must live her own life; but after all, I have seen a good deal more of the world than she has, and if I find that she is living her life wrongly, it's my duty as a parent to prevent her from making irreparable mistakes." Do you agree? Why? 2. A study of adolescent girls showed that 40% of them began to "pet" merely through curiosity. How would you deal with this? 3. A recent writer remarks, '"Fathers and mothers will agree on discipline and child care only when they love and respect each other. When husband and wife are emotionally entangled and maritally unadjusted, father has absolutely no place in the rearing of his children" and should let the whole matter be handled by the mother. Do you agree? Why? 4. Dr. Edward Sapir, a distinguished American anthropologist, answered the question, "What is the family still good for?" by saying that it has four irreplaceable functions: (1) to give the sex relation its greatest emotional value; (2) to rear children in an atmosphere of intelligent affection; (3) to socialize the individual; and (4) to prepare the child unconsciously for satisfactory mating in the future. What would you add to this statement of the case? (5) Your high school boy has a chance to get a job with a small salary this summer. Someone says that since you are perfectly able to support him, you should not let him take the job, but should leave it for some boy whose family desperately needs the money. What would you reply?