The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen CHARACTER DESCRIPTION AND RESUME—1ST INSTALLMENT IN the moldy decay of the old family mansion on Puget Sound lives "MISS BRILL" CAREY, spinster of 55, christened Brilliant Alaska in honor of her birthplace, and earning a sparse living as a seamstress. Her interest in life is centered in her niece, red-haired NELL CAREY, who has ambitions to be an artist. Lack of means to study and the opposition of her fiance are defeating the cause of art and hastening the day of her marriage to FRED NAGLE, practical, unromantic young chicken farmer, who believes money should stay in the bank and a woman should stay in the home. He is determined to see that Nell finds her place in his home. Miss Brill pockets her stiff Carey pride and asks her father's old friend, wealthy Philander Maddox, to give Nell a job in San Francisco, hoping the girl will develop her artistic talents and forget the stolid Fred at one and the same time. Miss Brill is convinced Nell does not love Fred. The old lady walks several miles in the rain to get some sewing to do, overdoes her frail strength, and is found on the road in a dazed condition by Nell and Fred. Nell's joy at learning of the promised job is overshadowed by anxiety over her aunt's illness. That night Miss Brill suffers a stroke, and Nell foresees a halt to her promised career. But to Fred the misfortune spells hope for an early marriage, and he waits impatiently to hear the report of Miss Brill's doctor. Nell is mystified by her aunt's mutterings about a "shining heart," but dismisses it as the delirium of a sick woman.
CHAPTER TWO
NELL CAREY, small and slender in her blue print dress, picked her way over the beach boulders to where Fred sat waiting for her. She had sent him there to get him out of the house. Somehow, Miss Brill sensed his presence there, and it made her very nervous.
Nell never questioned her affection for Fred Nagle. As he sat, solidly competent, upon his rock, he visibly embodied all the commoner virtues. Nell knew that. Everybody in Pine Point knew it. Fred had led his high school class. He had gone competently to agricultural college for just the two years required to learn the theories of poultry raising, and with a practicality that amounted to genius had scorned to waste any more time in the halls of learning. The embellishments of classical education were not for Fred. Now he was raising poultry and was already regarded as an authority by the men thereabouts. With his usual forthrightness he had also acquired Nell. How, she was sometimes at a loss to explain, but engaged to Fred she was, nonetheless.
Nell sighed in relief as she took her place on the boulder beside the young man. Say what you would, he was a reassuring person to see on this uncertain day. The good, brown sweater that outlined his stocky self, the short, curly, yellow hair neatly brushed to his round head, the earnest set of his square jaw, his blunt nose and clear, depthless blue eyes all looked steady and safe as the rock on which he sat. Nell felt suddenly secure merely to be near him. If only he did not look so stubborn!
"Well?" Fred asked. His question was for Miss Brilliant, but all his concern was for Nell. There were heavy, violet shadows under her gray eyes, and her face looked whiter than ever against the dark chestnut of her windblown, curling hair.
"I—suppose she's better. You can't tell. She looks at you but doesn't say a word. And we worked—all night." The girl leaned her head wearily on her hand.
"Didn't the doctor say what's wrong?" the young man demanded.
"It's—a stroke," Nell admitted hesitantly. "It seems she's had one before—that time she said it was. A heart attack. It's what has made her leg drag now and then."
"A stroke!" Fred exclaimed. "People are bed-ridden with those. I know, because my grandmother had one. The second one always keeps them in bed."
"Oh, no!" cried Nell. She clenched her hands tightly, fiercely. "Oh, no!" But this time it was a whisper. Ahead of her the shining vision of San Francisco, of the art school, wavered, crashed, like bright glass shattered by the flight of a malignant, dark arrow. When she left the house this thing that had struck so suddenly had seemed temporary, just a slight upset in her plans. Now suddenly she knew that Fred was right. The second stroke always kept them bed-ridden. She shivered.
Fred watched the girl gloomily. He felt almost angry with Miss Brill. If she hadn't insisted on overdoing herself, Nell wouldn't be faced with this catastrophe. Then suddenly he brightened. This illness showed another angle. He rolled the thought about slowly a minute, then grinned.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 187
He had an answer to that art school talk. "Why, Nell," he said, "now's the time we ought to get married. I'd help you take care of Miss Brill."
Tears filled Nell's tired eyes. For a moment she was tempted, sorely tempted, to throw the burden of the thing upon Fred's strong shoulders. But Miss Brill! She had never liked the idea of Nell's marrying him, stalwart as he was. And now—no, she could not worry that confused, sick mind merely to lighten her own cares.
"That's dear of you, Fred, but not now. It would excite her too much. There's Dr. Schmitz coming out now." Nell scrambled up hurriedly and ran up the rough path to the drive, Fred following. She looked mutely at the doctor.
Dr. Schmitz patted the girl's shoulder kindly. "Now, don't worry. Your aunt isn't going to die. Not right away. Of course, she isn't talking, but she's conscious, and she's in no pain at all. Mary Kelly's here to take care of her. And don't let that bother you either. I'll see that Mary gets her money."
Nell choked a little. "We have some money, Doctor,—in the Chinese chest." Money saved, penny by penny, Nell thought bitterly, from their endless berry picking, an infinity of stitching, a wilderness of jam sold to the summer campers.
"Oh," Dr. Schmitz said, "that's what she meant. Your aunt tried to tell me something about a Chinese chest and a shining heart." He climbed into his shabby car. "But don't worry her about it," he warned, "she mustn't be excited about anything."
188 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
NELL nodded mutely and fled along the grass-grown drive, beyond the house, to a log cabin down near the water. Fred followed silently and helped the girl upon the stone platform that made an open porch where she liked to sit when she was troubled and look out over the soothing, never-changing, ever-different waters of the Sound. This cabin was a copy, as true and exact as old Tom Carey could recall it, of his house in Brilliant, Alaska. He had built it as a refuge when the grandeur of the new mansion had pressed too heavily upon his simple soul. There he had collected his bear skins, his rifles, his mining tools, his snow shoes, his elaborate parkas, and the great chests he and Anne Carey had first taken to Alaska with them. Miss Brill had added to these treasures from time to time, until the place was known as the Alaska house, sacred to the memory of youth, of dreams, of vanished fortune. There was a huge rubble fireplace in the main room, a four-poster bunk piled high with the weight of Miss Brill's perfect "hope-chest" patchwork. There was even a little kitchen lean-to, where old Tom had sometimes cooked himself a catch of salmon after a night on the Sound in his punt.
Nell settled on the platform and looked soberly at Fred. He sat down beside her.
"Well?" he said, his familiar opening.
"San Francisco's off, of course. I stay here," she said dully, and looked up in time to catch a satisfied look on Fred's face.
"Fred Nagle, I do believe you're glad," she challenged indignantly.
"Say," Fred protested, "I'd be a fool not to be. I never pretended I wanted you to go down there, did I? Sensible thing for us to do is get married. You can't swing this thing alone. We can start work on the new house up on Maple Hill and stay on here until it's ready," he said practically.
A cold little fear shadowed Nell's mind, an indefinable shrinking. Without stopping to think about things, she knew Fred was right. She couldn't take care of the invalid alone—not when the little nest-egg in the Chinese chest was gone. But instinctively the girl shook her head, nibbling hard on a piece of grass she had plucked.
"Why not? That's the sensible thing to do," Fred exclaimed heatedly, his neck beginning to redden.
She couldn't tell him, not now, why she refused—that Miss Brill would surely die if she left the gray house; that the vision of the art school, dim as it was, was dearer to her than he was.
"It wouldn't be fair," she said huskily, "to dump all our worries on you. Let's wait awhile. I can take care of Aunt Brill all right, don't worry."
But in her heart she was afraid. How on earth she would manage the doctor bills, the medicines, the extra dainties, to say nothing of Mary Kelly's modest pay, was a nightmare. Somehow they'd never planned on Miss Brill's never being able to sew again.
Fred muttered sulkily, "I only wanted to help you out. You know I'd do anything to get you, Nell. I'd even put up with Miss Brill."
He wouldn't have to put up with her long.
"I'm not ungrateful, Fred," Nell murmured, "but this time we'll wait and see. Maybe she won't be in bed so very long. She's always been so strong. And anyway, I have to stay here and take care of the garden and things."
Still mooning over that art school racket, Fred thought, and rightly.
"Promise me one thing, then. If your aunt's not on her feet by summer's end, we'll get married."
Nell agreed listlessly. She was even too tired to feel anything, much less be thrilled, at the prospect of her marriage. Besides, she had known for a long time she would some day marry Fred. It was just that she wanted to study first.
"You can draw interest on your house money that much longer," she said mischievously.
"Well, you don't see me putting good money into a house before I need it," Fred retorted, as he assisted Nell down from her perch. "The garage is good enough for me, and a lot better than most single fellows have."
It really was, Nell knew. Fred was snug and comfortable in his domicile, where neat filing cases, scoured kitchen sink, shower bath, and business desk elbowed each other in orderly flanks. Fred's housekeeping was as efficient as his poultry keeping.
THE young man left her at the kitchen door, and Nell went slowly into the darkened house, her fears upon her like a weight. She didn't want to marry yet—not before she'd had her chance. If the sick woman knew she was driving Nell to the very thing she'd fought to keep her from! But she must not know, not ever.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 189
Mrs. Kelly, the practical nurse Dr. Schmitz had brought with him, tiptoed out of Miss Brilliant's bedroom. "She isn't asleep," she whispered, "but you can keep an eye on her while I run home a minute. I'll be back to get her ready for the night."
Nell slipped into the big bedroom and sat down in the carpet-covered rocker near the bed. Miss Brill was not asleep. Her hands, curiously lax, moved restlessly over the red and white of the patchwork bed cover. Then, without opening her eyes, her lips moved; she tried to speak. Nell jumped up and leaned over the bed, watching closely, her heart beating fast. The struggle went on, but no words came.
"Don't, Aunt Brill. Don't try to talk. There isn't anything at all you need worry about," the girl whispered urgently.
But the old lady's face worked, and finally she managed, "Chinese chest—shining heart."
Then she stopped, exhausted.
"I know about that, Darling," Nell told her soothingly, "and I'll go right up as soon as Mary Kelly gets back and see that everything is there. Don't fret. Nobody'll steal it. Nobody knows about it." She stopped short. Somebody did know about it. She had told Fred and Dr. Schmitz this very day.
Miss Brill frowned impatiently but made no more effort to talk. She isn't satisfied, thought Nell, and looked about until she found a pencil and pad of paper. The invalid tried to hold the pencil in the lax, waxy hand, but the effort came to nothing. She sighed, and was still.
Nell sat down again beside the
190 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bed, troubled. This "shining heart!" Never before had she heard mention of such a thing. Probably it was nothing but a fevered imagination, but the girl meant to search the Chinese chest to its very bottom, and discover what, if anything, worried the sick woman.
She got up presently and found the package of Mildred Carson's trousseau linen and began to hem. Miss Brill watched her with her sharp, black eyes, and gradually some small bit of peace came into them. She's worried about the money, too, Nell thought, and hemmed the faster. Work she despised with all her heart, this hemming, but she'd do it until she went blind if it would ease the fears of Aunt Brill.
When Mary Kelly returned, Nell put on a sweater and slipped out of the back door. She hurried along the beach path, her chestnut hair flying in the stiff breeze from the Sound. Her heart was heavy, but her mind was made up. Yesterday old Philander Maddox, the rich man from San Francisco, had given her a job. Today he would get it back again. There was no use hoping, with Miss Brill lying inert as a log in her bed. I'll be taking care of her, getting thin and old as she is, all the rest of our lives together, the girl thought. And the sorrow, the panic in her heart, was not for herself, but for Miss Brilliant, who had had such high hopes for her girl.