Days At Harmony
By Gordon Burt Affleck
"MY beloved Emma—she that was my wife, even the wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart," thus wrote the Prophet Joseph of his wife, nearly seventeen years after he first met her at her father's home in Harmony, Pennsylvania. And, despite the numerous and untold hardships, constantly moving, hiding, fleeing ever westward and beyond her home, often alone and greatly inconvenienced; and even though there were those times when her patience "snapped" and in despair she "murmured," the record is quite clear that through it all there was a genuine mutual devotion between Emma and Joseph. This natural, personal affection for Joseph was engendered in Emma at Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania and helped to carry her far in the path he was making. Of those early "days at Harmony" relatively little is known, but their significance can hardly be overestimated. Now, however, with the organization of a stake on the Atlantic seaboard, and with the annual Aaronic Priesthood pilgrimage from New York and the branches of the Eastern States Mission each May 15, it may not be an exaggeration to assume that "Harmony" will come into its own as a recognized landmark in the Church and Church history.*
But let us go back some years for a better understanding of Emma, her people and the place of her birth. The parents of Emma Hale were of revolutionary stock. Her father was fifth in a line from one John Hale (Heald) of Berwick-Upon Tweed in Northumberland, England. This John Heald was one of the "first settlers" of Concord, Massachusetts in 1635. His son Gershon was followed in turn by the grandson Samuel (Hail) Hale; Reuben, the son of Samuel, born at Oxford, Connecticut, served in the Revolutionary Army and on the twenty-ninth day of August, 1759, married Diantha Ward. Isaac Hale was the second son of this union, having been born at Waterbury, Connecticut, March 21, 1763. At the age of sixteen, Isaac did revolutionary service under Col. Ebenezer Allen. (A marker of the Sons of the American Revolution is now appropriately
*During the next year or two many members and friends of the Church will drive to the New York World's Fair. Surely they will want to make a tour of historical Church points along the way. For this reason it may not be amiss to note that as the settlements of frontier New York and Pennsylvania grew to the stature of "township," the names were often changed. So it was with Fayette, Seneca County, New York, and Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. The traveler will note that Fayette, the place where the Church was organized, is now called WATERLOO, and road maps show it at the junction of U. S. Route 20 and New York route 5, and between Geneva and Seneca Falls, New York. Harmony is now known as OAKLAND, just across from the town Susquehanna, on the north bank of the river, 23 miles southeast of Binghamton, New York, on Pennsylvania route No. 692.
150 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
placed on his grave in the old McKune graveyard in Oakland, Pennsylvania.) The tomb stone reads: "The body of Isaac Hale, the Hunter, like the cover of an old book, its contents torn out, and stripped of its lettering and gilding, lies here food for worms; yet the work itself shall not be lost, for it will, as he believed, appear once more in a new and more beautiful edition corrected and amended."
Isaac Hale had been to what was then the West. So with the desire to push into new country in his blood, and his natural aptitude as a hunter, he took Elizabeth Lewis, his new bride, together with her brother and the brother's bride, and moved from New England to Susquehanna County in the northeast of the State of Pennsylvania. Elizabeth Lewis, Emma's mother, came from an equally important new-world family; she represented the sixth generation from George Lewis and the New England Lewises. Elizabeth was born at Litchfield, Connecticut, November 17, 1767; married Isaac Hale, September 20, 1790, at Wells, Vermont.
THE Isaac Hales in Harmony became the parents of nine children, six boys and three girls. Emma, the seventh child, was born July 10, 1804, at Harmony. Very little is recorded about the early life of Emma, though one would be well within bounds to say that she was a "churched" young
SCENE AT OLD MINE DIGGINGS, HARMONY
lady, having been under the parental guidance of a mother who was "for fifty years a member of the Methodist Church". Emma could ride a horse and did so to advantage on several occasions; she was able to read and write quite well as was evidenced by her pleading letter to the governor of Illinois in behalf of Joseph at the time the extradition papers had been signed for the Prophet's transfer to Missouri; she was both versatile and cultured, tall and striking, but with a definite air of femininity. Nevertheless, she was in her twenty-third year when she married Joseph after a difficult courtship of some fourteen months.
Three major factors contributed to this difficulty. In the first place, Joseph's introduction to the Hales in 1825 was as a "money digger". He had "hired out" to Josiah Stoal to dig for Spanish treasure and came to Harmony to work with the other "hands" in the search for a silver mine. About a half or three-quarters of a mile to the east and north of the foundation remains of the old Hale house can be seen the sizable hole dug in the hillside, in what is now a pasture. After one hundred and thirteen years this pit is real evidence of real work as claimed by the Prophet. The venture was abandoned in about a month at the suggestion of Joseph. During this stay at Harmony, Joseph boarded at Isaac Hale's and, of course, met and fell in love with the daughter Emma. However, the name "money digger" attached itself to Joseph with no uncertainty and with it a repulse from Emma's parents.
In the second place, "owing to my
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 151
continuing to assert that I had seen a vision," says Joseph, "persecution still followed me, and my wife's father's family were very much opposed to our being married." Then, too, Joseph left Harmony before Christmas, 1825, and the opportunities for association were few, and the distance between Joseph and Miss Hale was no small factor in the way. (Palmyra being some 125 miles by roadway, over hills, through the woods, and along the stream beds.)
Another unwarranted attack on the character of Joseph came when, because of family opposition, the young couple went to South Bainbridge, Chenango County, New York, and were married by Squire Tarbill on January 18, 1827. Despite the fact that Emma was over twenty-two years of age, and had, under the law of Pennsylvania, attained her legal majority, Joseph was thereafter branded as an "abductor".
The following August, according to the purported affidavits of Peter Ingersol and Isaac Hale, dated December 8, 1833, and March 20, 1834, respectively (both referred to as "purported" affidavits because of their appearance in Howe's discredited book, "Mormonism Unveiled"), Joseph and Emma returned to Harmony for a visit and were then invited to move to Harmony to make their home.
IN December, 1827, the young couple moved to Harmony and lived for a short time with her people. The translation of the Book of Mormon was commenced immediately in an upper room of the Hale home. Joseph purchased thirteen and one-half acres from his father-in-law, on which was situated a small house. Brother Brigham H. Roberts says: "It was in this house that a large part of the Book of Mormon was translated. The house stands on the north bank of the Susquehanna River, two miles west of the Twin Rivers and is now not more than sixty feet from the New York, Erie and Western Railroad. The building... looks as though it would soon tumble down from rot and age." It didn't take long for Brother Roberts' observation to become a reality. In 1936 only the walls of the small foundation remained. The excavation was partly filled. Although very definitely there in 1938, the grass was growing in and around the remains so as to obscure it from casual view.
It was near this foundation landmark that the adult Aaronic Priesthood of the Manhattan Ward, on May 14, 1938, erected a sign which they had made at their home in New York City, one hundred and fifty miles southeast. The sign reads:
NEAR THIS SPOT JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET TRANSLATED THE BOOK OF MORMON 1829.
The man who owns the ground at the present time was not so certain that he wanted the sign erected. The Priesthood group had received what they thought was permission from the man's sister across the road. After some gentle persuasion on the part of President Frank Evans of the Eastern States Mission, coupled with a little bargaining power, an agreement was signed to let the sign stand. One clause of the agreement promised in substance that the owner would keep the sign up. In October, 1938, the sign was still in perfect order, and the assurance of its remaining was evidenced by additional braces and anchors placed there, no doubt, at the instance of the property owner.
IT was in the little house which stood at this place, the first-owned home of the Smiths, that their first son was born and died; it was here that Emma came so near to death's door; it was here that Martin Harris obtained, after much persuasion, the one hundred and sixteen pages of manuscript which were subsequently lost; it was here that on April 5, 1829, Joseph met Oliver Cowdery, in whose handwriting most of the original transcript of the Book of Mormon was written.
David Whitmer tells of an incident; it is not clear whether it happened at Harmony or at Fayette, but it is sufficiently close to warrant attention and is both interesting and instructive. One record of the story is found in a statement given in the Kelley-Braden debate. The statement was made September 15, 1882, to Wm. H. Kelley and G. A. Blakeslee and others by David, who was then upwards of seventy-six years of age, in response to the question: "What kind of a man was he (Joseph Smith) when you knew him personally?" The answer follows:
152 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"He was a religious, straight-forward man. He had to be; for he was illiterate, and he could do nothing of himself. He had to trust in God. He could not translate unless he was humble and possessed the right feelings toward everyone. To illustrate so you can see: One morning when he was getting ready to continue the translation, something went wrong about the house, and he was put out about it. Something Emma, his wife, had done. Oliver
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 153
and I went upstairs, and Joseph came up soon after to continue the translation, but he could not do anything. He could not translate a single syllable. He went downstairs. Out into the orchard, and made supplication to the Lord; was gone about an hour—came back to the house, asked Emma's forgiveness and then came
OLD HOUSE BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN JOSEPH SMITH'S IN WHICH MUCH OF THE BOOK OF MORMON WAS TRANSLATED
upstairs where we were, and the translation went on all right. He could do nothing save he was humble and faithful."
Joseph had previously been taught the lesson of humility at Harmony when the Urim and Thummim were taken away from him at the time Martin Harris lost the manuscript. Joseph then turned to working on his farm and continued this even after the return of the "interpreters" in order to provide for his family;
154 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
this continued until the coming of Oliver Cowdery.
It was at Harmony that many revelations were given, among which are those recorded as sections 3 to 13 inclusive and 24 to 27 inclusive of the Doctrine and Covenants. Of transcendent and immeasurable importance was the appearance of John the Baptist, a resurrected being, the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood and the true order of efficacious baptism. This appearance was in the wilderness on the banks of the Susquehanna River, possibly between the house and banks of the river some 200 yards away.
Section 25 of the Doctrine and Covenants, given at Harmony in July, 1830, has always been referred to as foreshadowing the organization of the Relief Society at Nauvoo in 1842, and rightly so. The section also states the duties of Emma, even to the selecting of hymns, which the Lord said were pleasing unto Him and to be had in the Church. The revelation is likewise authority for women in the Church—even as missionaries: "and thou shalt be ordained under his (Joseph's) hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church".
THE Smiths lived at Harmony from December, 1827, to June, 1829, and only for short periods thereafter. In the eighty-six days, at most, between April 5, 1829, and their departure in June of the same year, most of the work and important events referred to had taken place. "But," says Joseph, "we had been threatened with being mobbed, from time to time, and this, too, by professors of religion, and their intentions of mobbing us were only counteracted by the influence of my wife's father's family (under Divine providence), who had become very friendly to me, and who were opposed to mobs, and were willing that I should be allowed to continue the work of translation without interruption; and therefore offered and promised us protection from all unlawful proceedings, as far as in them lay."
This would seem to offset the attack on Joseph in the affidavit purportedly written by Isaac Hale in 1834 and found in Howe's book. The old "Hunter" Isaac Hale was no doubt a strict, stubborn New Englander, but he believed in law and order.
The true power of prophecy was shown in that now famous experience of David Whitmer and Oliver Cowdery at the time David drove from Fayette, New York, to Harmony, Pennsylvania, to take Emma, Joseph and Oliver to the Whitmer Farm to complete the translation of the Book of Mormon. David had not met the Prophet as yet. Joseph and Oliver went out to meet David some distance from the settlement, at the instance of the Prophet. David later related the story as told to him by Oliver as follows: "Joseph had informed him (Oliver) when I started from home, where I stopped the first night, how I read the sign at the tavern; where I stopped the next night, etc.; and that I would be there that day before dinner, and this was why they had come out to meet me, all of which was exactly as Joseph told Oliver."
Joseph and Emma left Harmony. In 1831 they moved to Kirtland,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 155
AT SITE BELIEVED TO BE FOUNDATION REMAINS OF JOSEPH SMITH HOME
Ohio. They had little or nothing to do with Harmony thereafter. From Kirtland they went to Hiram, Ohio; Joseph visited Missouri, and they had a short season in Nauvoo, but with it all there was no pressing to return to Harmony save the memories of the past.
In 1833 the Smiths sold their thirteen and one-half acres at Harmony to Josiah McKune, Jr. In May, 1938, the present owner insisted that the original deed to Joseph from Isaac Hale, recorded in 1830, was then in the possession of an attorney in Binghamton, New York, a few miles northeast of Oakland (Harmony). Be this as it may, the remains of Le Chasseur—the hunter—Isaac Hale, who died January 11, 1839, those of his wife, Elizabeth Lewis Hale, who died February 16, 1842, and the infant son of Joseph and Emma lie in the old McKune cemetery, which is between the sites of the old foundations of the Hale and Smith homes at Oakland, once known as Harmony, Pennsylvania.
Relief Society Ward And Branch Presidents
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
AS we approach the birthday of Relief Society, let us offer a special tribute to the ward and branch presidents of the Organization—to those of the past who from the beginning and all down through the years have borne the chief burdens in the local units; and to those of today who are so willingly assuming these responsibilities.
The general supervisory work of the Relief Society is centered in general and stake governing boards, but the detail work, which is the real work of the Organization, is carried on in the wards and branches, which are the vital, pulsating units of the Society. It is here that membership is held; that the educational program is carried on; that the welfare work is done; that contributions are received for charitable purposes; that cooperative community work is done. Under the direction of the local president the needy are contacted and provided for; the sick are visited; the sad and discouraged are cheered; the sorrowful and mourning are comforted; the dead are lovingly and tenderly clothed for their last rest.
The responsibilities and requirements of the Relief Society president are many and exacting, but she assumes and carries them willingly. Her office makes great demands on her time, energy and ability. She is usually the busiest volunteer worker in the community. Her work is comparable in many respects to that of the bishop. She is called upon by night and by day for service. She should be broad in sympathy, tender of heart, charitable. She should possess wisdom and understanding, patience and tolerance, resourcefulness and executive ability. Above all else a president should have faith in God and a testimony of the Gospel.
Ward presidents are constantly challenged, but they are meeting the challenge bravely and successfully, as all who are acquainted with their work can testify. They have been important factors not only in charitable work, such as looking after the wants of the needy and sick, but also in constructive, preventive, community welfare. It would be as difficult to estimate the incalculable good they and their associates have accomplished in civic and community work as it would be to estimate what they have accomplished in the home and in the family. They have also helped materially in establishing the high standards which the Relief Society as an organization has attained, which are recognized both nationally and internationally.
As one travels both at home and abroad, it is interesting to observe the similarity in spirit and procedure to be found in all the local units throughout the Organization—whether in America, in Europe or in the Pacific Islands. Ward and branch presidents could be exchanged between countries as college professors are exchanged, and, providing there were no language difficulties, they could function effectively and efficiently. The president of either the North or South London branch, or of the Dublin branch, would be at home presiding over a Salt Lake City ward; or a president from a rural ward in Utah or Arizona could be exchanged with the president of the urban Washington, D. C., branch, and the work would go on smoothly. The training which the Organization gives helps its workers to be resourceful and self-reliant, and it teaches them to think independently. The spirit of the office and calling seems to come to those who are assigned to do the work and to give them the necessary insight, poise and understanding and the desire to accomplish.
THE history of the Society is replete with records of the deeds of ward presidents and their associates. It would take volumes to enumerate them. The following instance will illustrate the work:
A young doctor with his wife and two small sons left their home in Salt Lake City for a large eastern center where the doctor was to continue his medical training. The wife and children were to stop on the way to visit a relative who was teaching school in a near-by western state, while the father was to continue his journey. A few days after the mother and children arrived in the small country town, the baby boy of two years became violently ill. The diagnosis was scarlet fever, and the small community was greatly exercised and even terrified over the situation,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 157
As there was no hospital of any kind in the town, the mother and sick baby were isolated and quarantined in a small, empty house on the outskirts of the village, which had been hurriedly prepared for them. A trained nurse, who happened to be in the vicinity attending a chronic invalid, was permitted by the latter to go to the desperate mother, who had never witnessed serious illness before. In two days the baby passed on. The nurse now felt it her first duty to hurry back to her patient, and so left immediately, leaving the little mother alone with all that remained of her precious child.
Overcome with grief and almost blinded with tears, the mother walked about the room and finally to the front door. Her eyes followed the path down to the little gate where she saw two strangers standing—women they were. Who could they be? And why were they waiting there? One of them beckoned to her and, as she approached them, offered her warm, nourishing food. They told her they had come to remain near her until further necessary arrangements were made and completed, also that they desired to prepare the clothing for the child.
As the distracted mother looked into the faces of the speaker and her companion, she wondered if they were ordinary human beings, or if they were real angels sent directly from heaven to succor her in the hour of her greatest need. This Relief Society president and her counselor had each suffered the loss of a child and could sense in a measure the sorrow of the desolate and bereft mother. They felt sure
158 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the little one was safe and happy in heaven and quoted to her the words of the Savior: "Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven." (Matt. 19:14)
As the day wore on, the mother pondered over this great act of human service. Then she remembered vaguely something of Relief Society work in her home village, how even her own mother used to be away visiting homes and doing things for others. But this had never appealed to her as being work that was very important. Now she understood what it all meant, and in her sorrow she resolved that she would join and support and work for Relief Society throughout the remainder of her life. She would feel blessed indeed if ever opportunity came to her to give any degree of the comfort to others which had come to her from these devoted sisters in this strange community far from her home.
IN contemplating the work of the Relief Society president, we are not unmindful of the fact that she herself is greatly blessed in her labors; that while she gives she also receives. Her work may be regarded as a real opportunity personally for growth and development, as is the work of every other officer and member of Relief Society. Some women who have assumed the office with great timidity, fear and trembling have, with the responsibility, gained in strength, knowledge, ability and power. They have grown in sympathy, tenderness and understanding — those graces which are so inspiring and endearing. Because of their faith, humility and unselfishness the Lord has also blessed them abundantly. Thus, while a great portion of their energies have been consumed in activities that have helped others, the process has added to their own strength and culture, and their own personalities have been developed and enriched. 'Their lives and labors have verified the truth which was proclaimed by the Savior. In speaking to and instructing His _ apostles he said: "He that findeth his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." (Matt. 10:39) Let us salute these great women —our 1,918 ward and branch presidents—on this 97th birthday of the Organization. Let us extend to them our sincere love and deep appreciation, and say, "God bless these lovable, intelligent, self-sacrificing, generous ones who are true to their trust and to their convictions." They will be sanctified and richly rewarded by their sacrifice and unwearied effort in doing good.