[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | November | Issue: 6 | Title: BEAR LAKE STAKE | Author: Unknown]

BEAR LAKE STAKE

	Minutes of annual conference held in the
Bear Lake Stake Tabernacle, July 12, 1903.
	Officers meeting, 10 a. m., where all the
wards were represented, twenty-three in
number, it being the first time that we had
a full report since the Relief Society was
organized in a Stake capacity.
	At 2 p. m., President J. P. Lindsay pre-
siding. Conference began with singing and
prayer. Minutes of last conference read
and approved.
	Sister J. P. Lindsay said if we only put
ourselves in a position we can enjoy every
blessing that is possible to be obtained, we
should each one of us know for ourselves
that this is the true work of God. Was
pleased to meet the sisters from Salt Lake
City and to have their valuable instructions. 
“We have a great mission before us. I
know this to be the true church and
kingdom of God.” Prayed the Lord to
bless and inspire the speakers with His
Holy Spirit. God bless us. Amen. 
Sister Stevenson explained the work of
the Relief Society. Spoke of peace, and
how it should commence in our homes, also
in all our associations. Wished to deliver
Sister B. W. Smith’s message of love to all
the sisters of this Stake. Said we should 
exercise faith and not forget the Lord. The
sisters are "angels of mercy.” Teach our
children faith and instil in their hearts love


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
and charity, also to read good books and
study the Word of Wisdom.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder read a letter re-
lating to mothers’ work, which told us that
we must especially look after our young
people, their morals, how can this be ac-
complished? Teach them to aim for some-
thing great and cultivate higher things in
life. To watch our boys and keep them
home after night fall, also our girls. Should
teach our children to pray for the presi-
dency; to respect those in authority; to
keep the Sabbath day holy; avoid evil in
every respect; attend Sabbath School; be
neat and tidy, and observe all that is good.
Related some instances of her mission and
her feelings after getting her release. “May
the Lord bless us with His Spirit.’’
	Brother William Rich spoke of his moth-
er’s anxiety over him, and following him
about to know what company he was
in, but could understand it now. Spoke
of a mother’s influence and of evil associa-
tions. It is essential to take care of
our children. “May the Lord bless us,
Amen.’’
	Financial and statistical report read and
approved.
	Conference adjourned till half past six in
the First Ward meeting house. Singing.
Benediction by Sister A. Hoge.
	Afternoon session, President J P. Lind-
say presiding. Opened by singing, “High
on the mountain tops.” Prayer by Brother
Stucki. Hymn, “Though deepening trials. ”
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said while the last
hymn was being sung, pictures of England
passed through her mind, of green fields,
buttercups and daisies, and the times when
they would sing and hold meetings on the
streets. Spoke of the different incidents
that happened in her experience while on
her mission. We are now in a state that
we may become exalted if we live the life
that we should, everything is in a state of
progression. How far we would be behind
if we perchance made a failure of life.
	Sister Stevenson said while listening to
the former speaker thoughts passed through
her mind of the settlement of this country.
Do the young people that have comfortable
homes appreciate the blessing of their sur-
roundings? “Young mothers be proud of
your mission, remember that each child that
you rear is a jewel in your crown.”
	Sister Nancy Pugmire said what a pity
that mothers and wives did not fill the
Tabernacle. Felt that there was a spirit
of awakening, it is time. “I do not think
any other remarks could have been more
timely than what we have heard this even-
ing. There is an affection grown in all our
hearts towards the sisters. “May God bless
us all. Amen.”
	Sister Lindsay was very pleased and
thankful for the beautiful instructions we
had received from the sisters. Thought
there was a disregard shown for the Gos-
pel, we had better wake up or the Lord
would wake us rather roughly. “May the
Lord bless us all. Amen.”
	Meeting closed by singing. Benediction by Sister Mary Bagley.
