[Vol30 | May 1943 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

As ever yours, Adele Cannon Howells Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon H L. MENCKEN wriites of wom- * an's accurate perception of reality, of how she sees through the externals and comes to grips at once with the essentials of a problem. If this is true, today's world offers plenty of problems to challenge her deepest powers. In America, for instance, the delinquency of girls under twenty-one increased in 1942 fifty-five per cent over the 1941 record. PEFORE Pearl Harbor, one out of 'e every hundred wage earners in America was a woman. Now the proportion is higher than one in ten. EMBERS of the Women's Parachute First Aid Emergency Corps are now making leaps from their planes, after a year's preliminary training. HROUGH a group of senators, American women are asking for a constitutional amendment granting them equal rights with men. So far, Russia is the only country in the world where women have full equality with men. In America there are still more than a thousand common law discriminations against women. Individual states, too, make and unmake laws. Women are asking for equal pay with men for equal work, and for equal control with men over property, children, and inheritance. N the worst days of the London raids, Myra Hess, humanitarian and noted pianist, organized lunchtime concerts for workers in the National Gallery. The effect was so heartening that now string orchestras play week days in churches and cathedrals, chamber music is heard in school auditoriums, and many clubs for the advancement of music and the other arts are being founded throughout England. ILKA TERNINA, famous Croatian soprano, died recently in Zagreb, Jugoslavia. In the Metropolitan, she introduced the role of Tosca to America. Many say no one else has ever sung that role as well. She was also famous for her Wagnerian roles. AUL Revere and the World He Lived In by Esther Forbes is one of the Book-of-the-Month Club's choice of the ten best nonfiction books of 1942. ANOTHER field has been opened to women students at Cornell University with the inauguration of a map-making course for them. The course includes both lecture and laboratory work.