[Salads of Infinite Variety by Sara Mills]

SALADS OF INFINITE VARIETY mental principles, always to be observed. 'The salad greens should be washed and placed to crisp in the icebox several hours before using.
Lettuce should be broken in pieces by hand. Garlic, just a hint, enhances the flavor of any green salad. If you possess a wooden bowl, and every salad lover should have one, cut a clove of garlic in half and rub a piece around the bowl until it disappears into the wood.
Next arrange your greens. You may make a border of lettuce leaves, endive, or romaine tips. In the center you may have an escarole heart, flanked by lettuce or other greens, or you may toss your greens indiscriminately. On top, arrange the sliced onions, tomatoes (cut lengthwise for retaining the juice), green peppers, or whatever vegetables you care to use.
Place a scattering of finely chopped or cut herbs on top. My favorites are chives, parsley, thyme, and basil. Basil I use always with tomatoes, but the others may be used separately or together with almost any combination. Now, place a damp cloth over the bowl and put it in the icebox until it is ready to be used on the table. If you are a perfectionist, you will toss the salad at the table.
That leads directly to the matter of dressing. No two cooks ever mix a dressing the same way. The old standard recipe calls for two tablespoonfuls. Of oil to one of vinegar. My recipe is this: In a small bottle I place a generous dash of salt, a small dash of cayenne pepper, and paprika, and a larger dash of mustard. To this I add a few drops of Worcestershire sauce and a sprinkle of 469
Tabasco sauce. I may also add some celery seeds and a little chili powder or about a half-teaspoon of chili sauce. 'To this I add the oil, two generous teaspoonfuls to a person, and one of vinegar. I usually add an extra teaspoon of lemon juice Then I put the lid on the bottle and shake it until the contents are beautifully blended. If I am not using a garlic-rubbed bowl, I take part of a garlic clove and place it in the bottle. 'Then I chill the contents, remembering to shake the bottle well before I pour it over the greens. For tossing, I prefer a wooden fork and spoon, and the salad is turned until every morsel is coated with the dressing. To the bowl of salad greens and tomatoes, you may add tiny marbles of cream cheese, mixed with herbs, or sprinkle the greens generously with fresh grated Parmesan cheese, a few anchovies, or stuffed eggs. If you wish a cooked vegetable salad of carrots, artichoke hearts, peas, cauliflowers, string beans, or zucchini, these should be marinated in dressing before using. For a zestful salad, add a tiny bit of minced mint and thyme to the peas. You may use minced thyme, parsley, summer savory, or chives with the other vegetables. Avocados should be cubed or sliced and sprayed with lemon juice, their flavor is heightened by the use of onions and sliced oranges or grapefruit. Fruits, added to a tossed salad, give piquancy and add vitamins. Slices or chunks of pineapple, fresh or canned, are good with greens and cheese balls, or with the vegetable combinations. Seedless grapes stimulate the taste in almost any variant of the tossed salad. You may mix into the salad paper-thin slices of apple, with the red peel left on for firmness and color. Slices of canned peaches and pears give va- 2 eggs Y tsp. Salt Mm (5 or CUPS). Lietenigc until double In bulk. Tse until] very light; bake t 375 "stees, about, minutes, BEET JELLY SALAD (Serves 6-7
Persons ) T envelope gelatine 173 cup Sugar "2
Cup cold Water 2 tsp, salt 1 cup hot Water N% "up mild vine When the Jelly begins to ar or lemon Juice » chill, and unmold ° Cookies ) 1% cup uncooked Oatmea] — VY Cup flour 7 cup brown Sugar 1 tsp. Soda "4 cup Margarine % tsp. Salt Cream the Margarine and brown Sugar, Soda, and salt, a the Margarme and Sugar. Take One half of Mixture and spre: low pan, such as g Cookie sheet. Cad on the bottom of a Sha] FILLING 1% cups Talsins 3 tbsp, comstarch "2 cup White Sugar tated ring r € filling, Bake in slow oven (300°) for lDout one » Cut in finger-length Strips. Writers, ary Briant Jacobs, author of the litera Grant Judg and Elder Briant ture lessons, Was born in Mt. Pleas. ACobs, not Previous Y Tepresenteg ant, Ulta, son of Henry Jacobs among the authors of ¢p Ons, and Alberta Larsen Jacobs, Te atae introduced to Relief let fended Snoy ollege at Fr Taim Members and readers of the Mag and the Brigha You University zine. Provo, Utah, later beco § 4 memMary Grant Judd, author of 4 of the Ichfield Hig Schoo] siting teacher messages, "Ou, faculty fo, One year. He Teceived his aor Speaks," IS a mem €r of the Ph. D, in Merican Literature from elief Society feneral bog d, and an the State University f Towa sub- 4Ctive leader In community Cultura] mitting as 4 thesis a sp dy of th Projects, A daughter; Tesident Novel in Boston Preceding the Civil eber J. Gran and Augusta Winters War, Grant, she dCcompanied her Parents Less than 4 month after Teceivin On their Ission Japan ang lis deg > Brother Jacobs entered farmed that difficult languag at the Navy n Ensign Nd, upon the age of hirteen, €r rich herit- 'Ompleting hi, Preliminary trainin 48¢ Of devotion (0 the go Pel, a deep 34
Tucso Arizona, and Harvard 4PPreciatio Of art, literature, an Universit € was Assigned to comMUSIC, and 4
Careful] laining in th Munications duty board the USS domestic arts have de Mar, uam, a hh 'Y Cruiser which Parfant Judd a Capable ang Willing ICipated | Various CaMPaigns in the Worker in ma Y fields of Service, The CIfIC area 'Ogtaphy of her mother's life Which Sister Judd Wrote for t] nent Erg ( At the Present le Improve. Published, time Nant Jac t ) gave bs has Completed hree years as g evidence of historical} Nese: ' nd ember of the English department warm human interest blendeq into 3
Brigham Yo "8
University Marq delight} significant story ned to the former Barbara Tietjen er thr ears ttendance t Of Monroe Utah, the Jacobs have the University f Uta and one year two daughters, ASE SIX years and two at Colum niversity, Ma Tant Years Since Married R ere L. Judd €came NOn-academic time has been spent in building a home just north elfare Committee of the By U, Campus and served af Y in this Capacity unti] his death in 1945. There aTe six chi]- Or biographical] sketches of the authors Ten, two sons and four daughters, of the other lesson > See: and ten grang hildren jp the family. Elder Don Colton: Relieg Societ Readers f the 4azine are a  a ih — eT 5 ar on: elle, Ociet¢ a ney amiliar with the Many ex Magazine — * Te Wy 1946. Y cellen articles which Sister Judd has Elder © Homer Durham. The Relief Written, and with the Current Series, Ociety Mapazine , Jul 1948, "Table Setti 6S and F lower Ar. Jean Ridges Jennings, The clief So Tangements " clety Magazine, ABE 471
July 1948 S originally outlined, the text book to be followed again this year lS Jesus the Christ by Elder ames E. Talmage. Again this yeat only one chaptet of the text will be treated in each lesson. Sure that experience has strated that each chaptet provides sufficient material to occupy the class period. Class leaders are urged also to study references at the end of each chapter and secure authentic enrichment material wherever available. _Howevet, the discussion should be confined to the subject matter of the lesson. It is doubtful if any other period in the world's history ever neede the true Christian way of life as does the one in which we ate living. 'This year's course will deal largely with doctrines of the Church as they were taught by during the closing months personal ministry on earth. 'The women of Relief Society will be givcn opportunity fo study these doctrines; and it ls earnestly hoped that this study will awaken in the heart of each sister 4 desire not only to live personally the gospel of the Redeemer, but also to aid in bringing others to see the true light. The objective will be to show the way of life as Jesus taught it that we Page 4712 may patter our lives more closely This course follows closely the text Jesus the Christ. 'The events in the Savior's life are treated in the same chronological order as in the text, and each lesson covers many different subjects. The objectives given at the beginning of each lesson ale, therefore, general in nature. Questions are given at the end of each lesson. It is suggested that class leaders use these questions to aid in obtaimng class participation and discussion as the lesson is being presented. Again, the titles of the chapters of the text have been used as the titles of the lessons. For the 1949 50 season WE shall study chapters 25 to 32 inclusive, and the titles and objectives of the lessons follow: Lesson 17. Jesus Again in Jerusalem," chapter 25. Objective: To increase faith in the Lord Jesus by a careful study of some of his wonderful teachings.
Lesson 18. "Our Lord's Ministry in Perea and Judea," chapter 26. Objective: To Jesus taught a plan of life capable of saving all who will repent and obey him.
LESSON DEPARTMENT | 473
Lesson 19. "Continuation Of the and the cross, erean and Judean Ministry" Up to Ple on his Toad to foreknown Calvary and including "Parable of the Pharj. Lesson 22. "Jesus Returns to the see and Publican, Chapter 27, Page Temple Daily," chapter 30. 473. A — Objective. 0 study Carefully the Objective; To Continue the unfold. Lord's teachings Within the temple Ing, by his matchless te Ching, of the as he Neated the Close of his great 50Spel plan aS taught by the life, Lord Jesus, Lesson 25 "C earthly S hapter 31 nd "T Last Objective: To Convince the Prayerfy] Winter % hapter 28. Student that Jesus jg the Lord ya ' careful analysis of his Masterly teach. Objective. To prove by Cumulative Ing during "the Petiod which; closed evidence that Jesus Was indeed the Is public Inistry, &leatest teacher Mankind has eve nown, Lesson 24. "Further Instruction to the A ostles," cha ter 32>. Lesson 2, « to Jerusalem » P ° 3
Chapter 2
Objective ° show how ly and Orcefully Jesus Instructed those who Objective. To how steadfastly were to ca n his work after his "SUS Continued to minist unto peo. Crucifix; Sheology—tp.
Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 17 "J Y a carefy] Study of some of his ote: Al] quotations Which are Not followed by Teferences are taken from the text Jesus the Christ Departure from Galilee 'The 4postles had Tetumed from, lesson 16, we Studied the Contheir Mussionary tours and h d been Cluding Cvents Of the Savior's life almost ¢ Inuously with Jesus for and some € discourses he Save severa] months, "Ty aS harvest uring his Jas Visit to Galilee. Ou; time and th Feast of th aberstudies durin © Current year will nacles w rat hand. This Celebe Confined largely to his Perean bration followe the Passover and Judean ministry. The Feast f Weeks or 474 It was both a memorial and a yearly harvest celebration at which ll males in Israel were required to "appear before the Lord in formal celebration," that is, to appear or attend in the court of the tabernacle or temple and "make his offering with a joyful heart" (Smith's Bible Dictionary, page 192).
Many of the Saviors brethren urged that he should go to a more prominent place than Galilee to display his powers; but not through zeal for his divine mission, for we are expressly told they did not believe in him.
When he refused to let them direct his movements, he took occasion to tell them of the difference between their status and his. He was not of the world as they were. The world hated him because he was not of it, and, therefore, he was rejected by those who were of the world. At the Feast of Tabernacles There was great interest in Jerusalem concerning Jesus.
Many people believed he was a good man, although many disputed this, and all seemed to be afraid to espouse his cause openly for fear of incurring the displeasure of the rulers.
Jesus decided to go to the Feast of the Tabernacles at Jerusalem and, probably on the third or fourth day, he appeared. As usual, he soon began to teach the people.
Evidently he surprised the teachers. 'They asked among themselves: "How knoweth this man letters, having never learned?" He was no graduate of their schools, nor had he sat at the feet of the rabbis.
Note his answer: "... My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any  man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself" (John 7:16-17).
Thus he revealed his teacher—the great Eternal Father. 'The test he gave was eminently fair. It is fair today. Do his will and we shall know.
Jesus honored his great 'Teacher—his God—and, therefore, he was free from selfish pride and boastfulness. The rulers had tried especially to convict the Lord on two charges, breaking the Sabbath and _ blasphemy. It will be recalled he had healed an afflicted man on the Sabbath.
Jesus now referred to this act of mercy, saying: "I have done one work and ye all marvel." The rulers were in doubt as to whether they should accept him for the miracle or reject him because he had performed the miracle on the Sabbath. He confounded them when he showed that the law of Moses expressly allowed acts of mercy on the Sabbath. "Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment" (John 7:24).
Strange how prone men are to misjudge. All the works of Jesus were good and many people were beginning to believe in him.
When the chief priests realized this, they sent officers to arrest him and bring him before their high court—the Sanhedrin. The Master, however, continued his discourse, telling the people that he would be with them only for a short time; and that he would then return to the Father.
Always his remarks that he came from the Father and would return to him caused bitter discussion. 'The people would not accept his doc- Pr OEE, II, ay aay odes ay SIGE ate age FOR, x ¢ Pa Bi ol oy: 3 oe Leyte A Perry Picture From a Painting by Hofmann
CHRIST AND THE SINNER
 476 trine that he was from God—a part of the Godhead.
Many of the plain people were impressed with Jesus and declared he was the Messiah. The technical objectors quibbled over his coming from Galilee.
They argued that the Messiah was to come from Bethlehem of Judea. How easy it is when one wants to find an excuse for not obeying!
When the police officers returned without Jesus and acknowledged they had been impressed by his teachings, their masters were furious.
They asked of the officers, "Are ye also deceived?" (John 7:47).
These arrogant rulers were concemed, however, with the opinion of the common people, and because of this fear were stopped again in their evil course. The only man in the Sanhedrin who voiced any comment in favor of the Lord was Nicodemus, who had _ previously come personally to Jesus by night to inquire into his teachings (John 3:1-21). "Go, and Sin No More" Shortly after the festival,