[Joanna—Chapter 7 by Margery S. Stewart]

Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 7
Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her resources—a home, poorly furnished and not paid for, and $1.19 in cash. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale.
Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and _ transportation.
From a slow and unpromising beginning, they build a profitable business.
Joanna decides that she must have a better home for her children. A salesman, Kent Taylor, shows her a house on a hill, which Joanna cannot afford to buy. Unexpectedly, however, she is offered $5,000 for her recipe for Boston-baked beans. ENT Taylor came when the man had gone. He sat on the edge of the kitchen table and filched cookies from the growing pile before him. "It's incredible, Joanna." But he seemed not too much surprised. Joanna, taking more cookies from the oven, straightened and stared at him. "Kent Taylor! You had something to do with this." The afternoon sun _ poured through the window and burned on his bright hair. "Strangest thing. I'm to do an article for the Post about the William Davidson Company."
Joanna came to the table and leaned on it. "You told them about me about my Boston-baked?" His hazel eyes mocked her. "Come to think of it, believe I did. Angry?" "Oh, Kent, how could I be?.  I'm I'm always so amazed when it happens so naturally." "What are you talking about?" "Miracles."
Kent caught her wrist. His face was very close to her own.
Joanna could see the gold flecks in his eyes, the light freckles under his tan, the lines that quickened when he was amused. 'There was a sudden thudding in her breast. "Now we can celebrate. You're going to get your house and your shop. Be young, Joanna. Be young and frivolous. Don't be bowed down with responsibilities all the time. Let's go rake a few stars down from the sky." "Td like that," Joanna said. "I'd like that very much." He swung to his feet. "Wonderful! I'll call for you at eight tomorrow night. We'll have dinner. We'll dance. Can you dance, Joanna?" "T've forgotten how." "Good! Ill teach you."
Abigail came over when he had gone. "I saw his car drive away and I came right over. Oh, Joanna, I'm still walking on stars from that Mr. Parkinson. Now finish telling me."
Joanna said dreamily, "I have a date, Abigail... A date with Kent."
Abigail flushed with pleasure. "About time, I says.
When is it?" "Tomorrow." "Pll go down town with you in the morning...
Just to see you don't buy another practical dress." JOANNA The dress was a soft green wool; the coat was gray, the hat a dashing thing of gray to match the coat. It had a green feather slashing through it.
Joanna could hardly bear to leave the dressing room in the shop. "T never dreamed I could look like other women." "What other women wouldn't give... To look like you do this minute. Now for a manicure and a hair fixin',. Oh, we'll give that young man a surprise, we will," Abigail promised. T was fifteen minutes to six when Joanna, breathless and taut with excitement, reached home. Her children fell back from her, awe in their eyes. "Gee, Mother, you look wonderful." David's eyes shone. "Like a movie star!"
Penny said.
Michael pushed a grimy paper in her hand. "This is our program for tonight. Gee, I'll bet none of the other fellows will have a mother as good-looking as mine."
Something lurched sickeningly within her. Memory.
This couldn't be the night! Dimly, for days, she had been aware of David's excited talk about the P. T. A. Program. She looked down at the paper in her hand. "Solo... Michael Niels." She looked down at his bright, expectant face. "You're...
Going to sing... Alone?" she asked. "Sure, Mother. That's the surprise. I told you I was going to bring you a surprise.
They chose me out of the whole school." "Darling," Joanna said, and hugged him hard. The other children were jumping up and down in their excitement.
Sally pushed the yellow curls out 459 of her eyes. "Take us, Mother. We want to hear Michael. We're going to sit in the front row." She called Kent Taylor, caught him as he was leaving. She had never heard his voice on the phone before. She liked it. It was quick and deep. "Joanna?
Anything wrong?" She told him, and heard his click of impatience at the other end of the line. "But, Joanna, I'm going away tomorrow.
Denver and then New York. I don't know when I'll be back." She said dully, "But Michael has never sung before. 'This is important to him. I couldn't let him down." "T see." The words were like a little gate closing against her.
Michael came into the kitchen when she hung up the receiver. He flung himself upon her, hugging her with all his might. "TI love you," he said. "I'm going to sing like a million dollars, you wait and listen." She hugged him to her, hiding her face in his hair.: NOW covered the ground in the morning, hiding the bright, blown leaves, shrouding the trees.
Joarina was glad to see the whiteness. It hid the color of a hot autumn. She plunged into the business of getting her family settled in the new house, and her work moved to the little shop she and Abigail had found.
These were gigantic undertakings, requiring their toll of her strength, until she fell into bed so exhausted that her heart began a queer, lurching sensation. She went to a doctor. He shook 460 his head. "You really must slow down, Mrs. Niels..." She smiled at him. "I will slow down, just as soon as I get things settled. Then I'm planning a visit to one of the seacoast towns. I'm going to lie under a palm for months and months." His rueful smile matched her own. "lve been planning something like that for thirty years. Don't put it off too long, Mrs. Niels." But when the moving was finished, the new furniture in place, and her small brood gathered in silent ecstasy before the joy of their first fire in their first fireplace, Joanna wondered if she would ever be so happy again. She sat in the low rocker that she had brought from the old house and slipcovered. The children knelt on the white shag rug before the blaze. Penny's hands were clasped under her chin. "I guess this is the most beautiful house in the whole, wide world."
Joanna laughed and curled Sally's long yellow hair around her fingers. "There must be thousands of nicer houses than this, right in this city." "With this this feeling in them, Mother? 'This beautiful feeling?"
Joanna nodded. "With this beautiful feeling. But aren't we lucky to have it?" She smiled at David. "I see you've written out the chores?"
David nodded and sped to get the paper. "I got it all figured out, Mother. If each one of us will just do his job and put a check right here when he's finished, there won't be hardly anything for you to do."
Joanna read the list again. David  was to take care of the lawns and the porches and the basement, Michael was to oversee the wastebaskets and run the errands, and help Sally with the dishes.
Penny was to make the beds, vacuum, and dust.
Sally laid her cheek on Joanna's knee. "Oh, Mother, I love you so much." "We all do," David said, "and someday you won't have to do one single thing. We'll do it all. You can just ride around in a car and wear fur coats and things." "Mink," said Joanna and bent and laid her face against Penny's cheek. "My children," she said softly, "my dears." OANNA used to wonder which gave her the greatest joy, her house or her new shop. The shop had been a dreary little place when she rented it, with fly-specked mirrors, dirty walls, and grimiet floors. Now, under the brushes of ainters and the scrubbing cloths of herself and Abigail, the place began to gleam. She papered the front of the shop in yellow and gray striped paper, hung pale yellow poplin drapes at the windows, covered the floor in black linoleum with a yellow border. Her showcases glistened. She hung bright plates in a circle around the mirror, and she placed red geraniums on a white shelf where they made a gay splash of color.
Oanna cared for the geramiums herself. "They'll always remind me of the old house, the red and white checked curtains and the slipcover on the davenette." Abigail's brush scrubbed busily. shining store. - olks will feel right °° pread ere." she tried Secretly, Joanna th n that would She couldn't get over th rm. "Unlock tuming stand back. Own face lo ood bones showing; er them. It was smart to shoulders and very thin. "Here come your that fellow carryin $ ing day of her shop, SNY/ es?" "How woul licity?" ck. "But that two more _, but why?" She began to 's hard-bitten dinners; i ee here in town many 1 eresting and amazed Joanna ob d you lik 462 not sleep all night, shocked by her own extravagance. She laughed when her children crowded around to admire her before she went out. She cupped Penny's face in her hands. "Darling, you see? A woman can be Cinderella at almost any age."
Sally rubbed her face against the garnet velvet of Joanna's gown. "I'm so glad you're having fun, Mother. 
Have lots and lots of it, heaped up and running down."
Penny said, "'There's a boy named Tom Nichols. He wants me to go out with him to a party. Mother, it's... He's special." "Well—if you are in by elevChay "Mother!"
Penny flung her arms around Joanna and hugged her hard. "I do love you." (To be continued ) The