[Introduction by Briant S. Jacobs]

Introduction Briant Jacobs S Robert Louis Stevenson teminded us as children: The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings. One of these happiest "things" of life is to share with others that which we have found to be good. For us the best in life is to share the best; this, in part, we are about to do. And if, in bringing this literature to you sisters, you maintain some fraction of the joy we feel in assisting you in this magnificant task, our desires shall not have been in vain. Now, a word about method.
There are many trails through this rich wood; how you get within doesn't matter so much as that you do. If, in grazing this lush slope, we suggest that you eat only the tangy huckleberry, while in your own meanderings you have found some delicate grasses or aromatic mountain flowers—don't _ hesitate. On this range, bewilderment comes not from sparsity of feed, but from the very richness and variety of choice.
Because a year's Relief Society course in literature is less than eight hours, sometimes we might appear to be in a hurry. Don't let us hurry you.
Should we suggest you read four authors in an hour and, in discussing the first selection, you succeed rather well in making him come alive to your group until their faces glow as does yours—don't stop abruptly and feel you must hurry on to discuss the other three.
Literature lives through creating and sharing a few intense experiences.
Once you have caught some of the power, the beauty, the individuality of an author because you have been successful in enabling him to speak for himself with a part of his original force and freshness, you have accomplished something singularly worthwhile. But now it is time we begin—together.
Lesson 1—Early English Literature Briant Jacobs For Tuesday, October 18, 1949 THE thrill of discovering an arrowhead beneath a sagebrush or a stone includes within itself these questions: Who last held this flint in his palm, as now it rests in mine? Who was he? How did he talk, and laugh? What, for him, was joy, or greatness, or fear? In what did he believe?
Whatever sunken hulls or weapons, whatever cliff dwellings or castles the past has kindly preserved, LESSON DEPARTMENT these tell us relatively little.
Until we can share with a people their words, or thought-symbols, we can know only a fraction of their most intimate and real selves. But once we are enabled to understand the writings of any age, its thoughts are ours and, at once, we possess the key to whatever mysteries, beauties, and beliefs motivated that culture. Beowulf It is fitting that the richest of all national literatures (the English) should begin with Beowulf, the earliest known sustained piece of writing in any modern language, and one of the important epics of all time.
Although wntten by an unknown Anglo-Saxon poet about 750 A. D., Beowulf strictly belongs to no one nation. Its materials and tone brand it as a saga of the ancient Germanic heroic age, a pagan culture which had flourished in northern Europe and the Baltic Sea area since prehistoric times.
Comparable to. Various Norse and Icelandic sagas, Beowulf nonetheless differs from them in two important trespects: (1) the author grafted onto the original many expressions of Christian virtues; (2) his brilliant and original use of language gives to Beowulf a sustained loftiness and dignity of tone which only great literature possesses.
This greatest of all Old English poems is the outstanding example of the blending of the pagan and the Christian traditions. It also mixes history with legend: alongside such real episodes as funerals, 485 fights, and court banquets, appear Grendel, a supernatural mythical monster, and examples of epic exaggeration which to the literal-minded reader, might seem only preposterous.
While the poem accepts God as ruler of the world, and mentions heaven and hell, the creation, Cain, and the deluge, it is dominated by Wyrd, pagan Goddess of Fate.
Another pagan element is cremation. The payment of blood-money* is recounted and the worship of worldly glory and physical prowess. It reveals the Teutonic mind as moody, somber, and stubborn. Yet, despite a rough, savage existence, life was good, and courage, bravery, generosity, justice, and loyalty to clan and master were virtues most important in their vigorous code of life. The poem is divided into two parts. 'The first occurs at Heorot, the great hall built by Hrothgar, King of the Danes. Beowulf, a young Geat (probably from lower Sweden), fights the monster Grendel, who rises at night from the seamy moors to kill Hrothgar's warriors.
Beowulf tears off Grendel's arm, then later, when Grendel's fiend-mother _returns to the hall, Beowulf pursues her to her den far beneath the sea where he slays her with a charmed sword. The second episode portrays the later years of Beowulf when, as King of the Geats, he attempts single-handed to slay a fierce dragon which threatens the welfare of his subjects.
Mortally wounded in the struggle, Beowulf is rescued and defended by Wiglaf, one of his men. *This shows the early introduction of the false doctrine of doing penance by the payment of money, in place of the true doctrine of repentance taught by Christ. See Clark, J. Reuben, Jr., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, page 232. 486 In deep mourning and devotion, the people bury him and honor his name.
Note to Class Leaders: For the wealth of additional background material which cannot be included here, consult our text, The Literature of England, by Woods, Watts, and Anderson, particularly pp. 3-6, 9-10, 16-18, 19. The strength of language in Beowulf, and its exalted tone, can be imparted to your group only by reading aloud excerpts from the poem itself: the first 150 lines contain much that is both valuable and typical, as do lines 2205 to the end. It is obvious that your own exploring of the poem itself will prove a most fruitful investment of your study time. Use your own pronunciation of the proper nouns as they are not found in the dictionary. Bede (673-735) — | We might well be justified in saying that the Middle Ages was the Catholic church. For more than a thousand years during the dark days of the Great Apostasy, when men's minds were bound by ignorance, guidance flowed forth from the monasteries, the fountainheads of intellectual learning. From Jarrow (see map, opposite page 3 of the text) came the Venerable Bede (rhymes with seed), one of the greatest minds of the medieval world, and one of the great scholars of all time.
Entering the monastery as an orphan of nine, Bede spent his entire life there.
Largely because of him, Jarrow became the center of learning for all western Europe. The best mind of his age, a master of strong, clear prose as only one can be who devotes his life to reading and wniting, Bede did not aspire to create nor to entertain in his writings; like all religious writers of the Middle Ages, he desired only to re cord events accurately and to teach the beauties of Christianity as understood in medieval times. Yet the beautiful prose style in which we read his Ecclesiastical History of the English Nation, most important of his numerous works, is not entirely Bede's. Had not this work been translated from the Latin by Alfred the Great (849-901), the "presiding genius in Old English prose," it would not belong to this age so completely, nor would it mirror so precisely the literary and religious philosophies of these two genuinely great minds. As it is, these two scholars seem to have blended their personalities and skills most happily.
From that day to the present, Bede's great literary style, characterized by simplicity, directness, human warmth, deep reverence and insight, and beauty of word and phrase, has been a model for historians and for all who would see life truly and who would write well. And the Venerable Bede is at his best in the Parable of the Swallow (page 64, lines 50-72), one of the loveliest parables outside the Bible.
Primarily this parable is memorable because the image of the sparrow expresses with aptness and precision the mystery of this life and its relationship to immortality. The harmony between what is said and how Bede says it makes such writing literature. As we read further in Bede's Ecclesiastical History, more completely do we begin to understand why Bede has served as a model of English prose. "The Story of Caedmon" (pp. 65-67) proves once again Bede's ability to tell a story simply and purely. Immediately, we come to LESSON DEPARTMENT know Caedmon, not as a tender of horses, but as a modest soul humbly grateful to God for his power to praise him by re-creating the familiar stories of the Bible into poetry so beautiful and appealing as to ensure Caedmon's fame. As we witness Caedmon's receiving his poetic power, and when at death he expresses his feeling of "perfect charity" toward his fellows (page 66), we recognize the serenity of a soul at peace with self and God. The restrained telling of Caedmon's death gives us greater insight into Bede's own mind and beliefs, and hence tells us more about the Christian Anglo-Saxon's attitude toward God and this life than do volumes of facts. And this brief acquaintance with Bede and his depth of soul, as preserved for us in his prose, introduces us to an age which, because of such literature, can never die.
Note to Class Leaders: If time permits, read "The Conversion of King Edwin" (pp. 63-65) aloud to your group, noting the humility of King Edwin, and the restraint of emotion and statement as we see Edwin, who "used to sit several hours alone, and seriously to ponder with himself what he was to do, and what religion he was to follow." Lines 50-72, page 64, at least, must be read aloud to your group. If for any reason you spoil the first reading, feel free to read it again, until at least part of its power has been communicated. For background study the text, Introductions to Chapters I and II, particularly pp. 12-17, 82-85, 101-103, as time permits. Geoffrey Chaucer (1340-1400) Study text, pp. 97-100, 209-211) With Chaucer the literature of the Middle Ages ends, and the literature of modern England begins. For centuries before Chaucer, and during his own lifetime, writing was influenced by the Catholic church, which regarded literature as a tool useful in teaching religion, morality, and the virtues of the other-worldly life. While this tradition gave us a comprehensive and valuable body of religious writing, from Bede through Piers Plowman, English literature had never yet focused itself upon the realities of this life, while at the same time being free from the necessity of paying first honors either to religious, romantic, or legendary values. Likewise, the English language had never before been manipulated and shaped by a great literary artist; the language of the theologian and the scholar had been Latin. Not only did Chaucer liberate English literature and language from serving values other than its own, he also knew and loved and portrayed his fellow Englishmen so superbly that in a sympathetic evaluation of human nature only Shakespeare surpasses him. Despite whatever high seriousness his writing might lack, no exclusive list of the greatest English writers could ever exclude him.

The son of an English wine merchant, Chaucer began his life at court as a page. While still a young man, he began making journeys to the Continent as a representative of England. Throughout his life he served the Crown substantially and well. His travels enabled him to know the cultures of France and Italy at firsthand; his lifelong love of French literature and the medieval romance proved to be a rich and deep vein from which he drew a sensitivity, a delicacy, a sparkling eye, and a deep-surging love of life which the English imagination and tongue so desperately needed. Ovid, Virgil, Petrarch, Dante—the writers of the classic age were known and used by him in his various writings. But he was not merely a bookworm; he also enjoyed being an acute, penetrating observer of the human comedy which has continued throughout all ages, both before Chaucer and after him up to the present.

So far as we can know, Chaucer wrote only because he enjoyed it. Like all writers, he could not help seeing the world, its illogical contrasts, and its rich variety. Seeing thus, and knowing, evidently he could no longer contain himself; his refreshing view of his own age, and of ourselves, if we can but see and be honest, is the result. That he enjoyed his writing seems proved by the obvious enjoyment of portraying human nature which is the warming essence throughout his works. Tolerant, gentle, good humored, and delightfully whimsical, he is capable of satire and irony, but never does he lose his sanity and balance. As he chides and teases his characters for their all-too-human weaknesses, never does he become bitter; instead, his sympathy and understanding make us feel that of all great writers he most nearly becomes one of us, here on our "common-as-dirt" level. Most men he loves; in all events and persons he finds qualities which excite his eternal curiosity; only the hypocrite receives his censure. As summarized by one writer, "No one can read Chaucer and not be glad to be in the world."

Nor does Chaucer know but one segment of life. He is capable of humor always; he also has a genius for wit, drama, and pathos. He includes the same enormous scope in his subject matter. In both prose and poetry he wrote on science, religion, philosophy, ethics, and rhetoric. In various earlier works he celebrates marriages of royalty, talks of the emptiness of fame, chides woman for her gossip and small talk, and reaches exalted grandeur and pathos in the portrayal of a great love. But all ingredients of Chaucer are ideally combined in his comprehensive masterpiece which he left unfinished at his death: The Canterbury Tales.

In this collection of stories we have Chaucer at his richest and his best. His plan was to pretend himself a member of a group of thirty pilgrims traveling from London to Canterbury to visit the religious shrine of Thomas a Becket. After Chaucer described each person in the prologue, the host of the Tabard Inn was to act as something of a master of ceremonies, calling on each pilgrim to tell four tales, two on the way to Canterbury, and two during the return journey. Chaucer had written only his magnificent prologue and less than a quarter of the stories when he died.

The prologue itself is a masterpiece of characterization, just as the stories excel in their narrative qualities. As he describes the knight, squire, doctor, lawyer, miller, plowman, and cook, among others, we realize that here is a cross-section of all humanity, intimately known and intensely portrayed until the characters become almost more real to us than they would be in actual life.

Before we catch a brush stroke or two from this mural, a word about