[Literature: The Literature of England, Preview]

literature of the Middle Ages ends, and the literature of modern England begins. For centuries before Chaucer, and 487 during his own lifetime, writing was influenced by the Catholic church, which regarded literature as a tool useful in teaching religion, morality, and the virtues of the other-worldly life.
While this tradition gave us a comprehensive and valuable body of religious writing, from Bede through Piers Plowman, English literature had never yet focused itself upon the realities of this life, while at the same time being free from the necessity of paying first honors either to religious, romantic, or legendary values. Likewise, the English language had never before been manipulated and shaped by a great literary artist; the language of the theologian and the scholar had been Latin. Not only did Chaucer liberate English literature and language from serving values other than its own, he also knew and loved and portrayed his fellow Englishmen so superbly that in a sympathetic evaluation of human nature only Shakespeare surpasses him.
Despite whatever high seriousness his writing might lack, no exclusive list of the greatest English writers could ever exclude him. The son of an English wine merchant, Chaucer began his life at court as a page.
While still a young man, he began making journeys to the Continent as a representative of England.
Throughout his life he served the Crown substantially and well. His travels enabled him to know the cultures of France and Italy at firsthand; his lifelong love of French literature and the medieval romance proved to be a rich and deep vein from which he drew a sensitivity, a delicacy, a sparkling eye, and a deep-surging love of life which the English imagination and 488 tongue so desperately needed. Ovid, Virgil, Petrarch, Dante—the writers of the classic age were known and used by him in his various writings. But he was not merely a bookworm, he also enjoyed being an acute, penetrating observer of the human comedy which has continued throughout all ages, both before Chaucer and after him up to the present. So far as we can know, Chaucer wrote only because he enjoyed it.
Like all writers, he could not help.
Seeing the world, its illogical contrasts, and its rich variety.
Seeing thus, and knowing, evidently he could no longer contain himself; his refreshing view of his own age, and of ourselves, if we can but see and be honest, is the result.
That he enjoyed his writing seems proved by the obvious enjoyment of portraying human nature which ls the warming essence throughout his works. Tolerant, gentle, good humored, and delightfully whimsical, he is capable of satire and irony, but never does he lose his sanity and balance. As he chides and teases his characters for their all-too-human weaknesses, never does he become bitter; instead, his sympathy and understanding make us feel that of all great writers he most nearly becomes one of us, here on our "common-as-dirt" level.
Most men he loves; in all events and persons he finds qualities which excite his eternal curiosity; only the hypocrite receives his censure. As summarized by one writer, "No one can tread Chaucer and not be glad to be in the world." Nor does Chaucer know but one segment of life. He is capable of humor always; he also has a genius  for wit, drama, and pathos. He includes the same enormous scope in his subject matter. In both prose and poetry he wrote on science, religion, philosophy, ethics, and rhetoric. In various earlier works he celebrates marriages of royalty, talks of the emptiness of fame, chides woman for her gossip and small talk, and reaches exalted grandeur and pathos in the portrayal of a great love. But all ingredients of Chaucer are ideally combined in his comprehensive masterpiece which he left unfinished at his death: The Canterbury Tales. In this collection of stories we have Chaucer at his richest and his best. His plan was to pretend himself a member of a group of thirty pilgrims traveling from London to Canterbury to visit the religious shrine of Thomas a Becket. After Chaucer described each person in the prologue, the host of the Tabard Inn was to act as something of a master of ceremonies, calling on each pilgrim to tell four tales, two on the way to Canterbury, and two during the return journey.
Chaucer had written only his magnificent prologue and less than a quarter of the stories when he died. The prologue itself is a masterpiece of characterization, just as the stories excel in their narrative qualities. As he describes the knight, squire, doctor, lawyer, miller, plowman, and cook, among others, we realize that here is a cross-section of all humanity, intimately known and intensely portrayed until the characters become almost more real to us than they would be in actual life.
Before we catch a brush stroke or two from this mural, a word about LESSON DEPARTMENT language.
Chaucer wrote in Middle English, which is not familiar to our eyes nor ears, although it has many resemblances to modern English, so many, in fact, that with a minimum of effort, Chaucer can be read in the original (see pp. 104-105). As originally written, Chaucer's poetry is filled with a delicate music, and while we can get much of his beauty of content as he describes nature and humanity, the larger beauty of his lines is lost unless it can be heard.
Realizing the severity of this loss, it must nevertheless be faced, since it seems better to lose part rather than all.
With this in mind, note how much of the "knight" Chaucer gives us in a very few lines, here translated into modern English, but to be compared with the original in the text (lines 68-72): And even though he was valiant, he was wise, And in his manner as meek as a maiden. He had never uttered any vileness In all his life, to any kind of person. He was a truly perfect gentle knight. The Prioress, a nun (lines 127- 135): At meals well taught was she withal; She let no morsel from her lips fall 489
Nor wet her fingers deeply in her sauce. Well could she handle a morsel, and be careful That no drop ever fell upon her breast. Courtesy was her particular delight. Her upper lip wiped she so clean, That in her cup was no trace seen Of grease, when she had drunk her draught. The Merchant (lines 270-277): A Merchant was there with a forked beard, In motley array, and high on horse he sat, Upon his head a Flemish beaver hat His boots fastened tight and elegantly. His ideas he delivered most solemnly, Connected always with the increase of his profits. He wanted the sea safeguarded at any price Between Middleburg and Orwell. So we take but one brief glance; would there were time for more. Questions for Discussion 1. Beowulf contains both Christian and pagan elements. Isolate and identify examples of each. 2. Assign a sister to give additional material on the life and character of Bede. 3. Have the Parable of the Swallow read slowly and effectively and make comments on its literary value and modern application. 4. Give instances which illustrate the universality of Chaucer's characters in The Canterbury Tales. Sield Artllery Ora Pate Stewart Green swords Marching in rows, Clank in the wind, Glint in the sun. They guard my gold, Ripening corn. KA INemory Shirley Redd I saw a painted sky And you were near; I heard a song, a sigh, And felt a nameless fear. I see a star-fringed moon And can't forget; I hear a gay tune, And find my lashes wet. 
490