["I Am Come That They Might Have Life" by Mary Grant Judd]

"I Am Come that They Might Have Life, and that They Might Have It More Abundantly" (John 10:10). Objective: To show that the way to eternal life is the most complete life. Lesson 2. "Behold, I Stand at the Door, and Knock" (Rev. 3:20). Objective: To point out that Christ is ever ready to enter our hearts, if we but prepare the way. Lesson 3. "These Things I Have Spoken unto You, That in Me Ye Might Have Peace" (John 16:33). Objective: To, affirm that through conforming our lives to the teachings of Christ we may possess peace in our souls.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 4. "Lovest Thou Me?... Feed My Lambs" (John 21:15). Objective: To point out that this admonition is equally important today. Lesson 5. "Is Not the Life More Than Meat, and the Body Than Raiment?" (Matt. 6:25). Objective: To emphasize that there is a larger life than that of the body, namely, that of the spirit. Lesson 6. "For This Cause Shall a Man Leave Father and Mother and Shall Cleave to His Wife" (Matt. 19:5). 479
Objective: To point out that, following their marriage, the allegiance of a man and woman to each other transcends even the lasting allegiance which they owe their parents. Lesson 7. "Nevertheless Not My Will, but Thine, Be Done" (Luke 22:42). Objective: To help us accept life as it comes and not to lose faith during adversity. Lesson 8. "Be of Good Cheer" (Matt. 14:27). Objective: To reaffirm that in bringing help and comfort to others, we gain joy for ourselves. Lesson 1—"! Am Come That They Might Have Life, and That They Might Have It More Abundantly" (John 10:10) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, October 4, 1949
Objective: To show that the way to eternal life is the most complete life. <<] am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly" (John 10:10).
Thus spoke our Savior to some of his questioners, in explaining his earthly mission. In the early days of the Christian era some men thought that by withdrawing themselves from companionship with their fellows, they would more nearly approach the perfect life that the Master wished them to live.
Nothing could be further from his intent. He set the example by mingling with all types of people—beggars and lepers, Samaritans and publicans, the rich and the poor. He was at home with all and loved them all. Men in high places sought him out, yet little children were at ease in his society and common folk heard him gladly. He showed compassion toward even dishonest men and sinful women. He went to them and won them.
Thus he set the example of tolerance toward all.
Other mistaken ideas of an earlier period, which persist with some in our own generation, are that religion is primarily to prepare us for the life to come, that it is narrowing in its influence, and that it is sinful to enjoy the delights which are to be found in this world.
Christ showed us that the religious life is the abundant life. He came not to restrict us in our enjoyments of life, but to add to them. It should not be necessary to for- 480 bid an intelligent man to do harmful things. He ought to avoid them because he has no taste for them, because he finds more real satisfaction and more enduring pleasure in the doing of things that are recreational, but harmless in their nature, or by engaging in constructive activities. One might well ask, why should one choose a life that is small and contracted when there is within his  reach the life that is full and complete? How often have we heard missionaries speak of the time spent in the mission field as the happiest one of their lives? It is because they have discovered how completely satisfying their lives could become when they were experiencing the joys of the spirit.
This broader existence is the one that Christ brought to light when he came, that we might have life and have it more abundantly. ><> WVork ITleeting—Sewing Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)
Lesson 7-Use Your Odds and Ends
Jean Ridges Jennings
For Tuesday, April 12, 1949 npHE small, seemingly incense- patterns. Vari-colored pieces of quential things can add up to a felt, embroidered or trimmed with staggering total when taken all to- beads, may also serve as buttons. Odd gether. Minor savings effected here beads and old buttons can easily be and there with regularity may mean fashioned into earrings by buying a very substantial total saving for the the base in a notions department family budget. So get the habit of and fastening the bead or button to never throwing anything away that it with good household cement, can be used. After a dress is worn Old gloves can be made into devout, cut off snaps, zippers, buttons, er trimmings for dresses in the form etc., and save them with the possi- of lapel gadgets. Cut out an bility of using them again. The snaps awkward horse or a sly fox, stuff him, can be snapped onto a card or paper fasten to a pin, and wear on the lapel so they won't get separated or lost, of a coat.
Have a separate button box for used Household linens can be carefully buttons, because in a family there is guarded and salvaged for further use always need for odd buttons for after they have ceased to function shirts, underclothing, and dresses, in their original capacity. Bed sheets
Ornamental buttons are very expen- wear out in the center while they sive and often the button box will are still strong around the outside, yield just the thing that is needed, Good pillow cases can be made fom thereby saving extra expenditure of these portions or they may be used money. Zippers, too, can be re-used for crib sheets, and should always be saved. Buckles The better parts of old tablecloths and other trimming need not be can be hemmed or fringed and used thrown away just because a dress is for napkins and place mats. If they worn out. Many elaborate and ex- are not usable as napkins, remember pensive effects have been achieved that linen is very absorbent and with the passementerie or braid makes ideal dish cloths. Then, after from grandmother's gowns. they are too far gone for anything
With a little originality, clever else, they are perfect as cleaning and attractive buttons and trimmings cloths, especially for washing wincan be fashioned from odd bits of dows. felt, leather, old beads, etc. Some So learn to make all of your clothof the cleverest buttons are those ing and household linens lead a made from cord or tubing of ma- double life. Get the make-over, terial twisted into odd shapes and use over habit!

LESSON DEPARTMENT 57
JLiterature — Literature of the Latter-day Saints
Literature of the Gospel Restoration
Lesson 7— Literary Sidelights of the Founding Years
Elder Howard R. Diiggs
For Tuesday, April 19, 1949 lyilNUTES of meetings, diaries, letters, biographical sketches, all afford interesting materials to bring one nearer to the developing years of our Church. Often these more or less informal writings become literature in an artistic sense.
This when the writer, faithful to the facts, records significant sayings, important incidents, or gives descriptive lines to help humanize the story.
From such well-written accounts, historians, authors, or others may get a truer picture of the ever-changing events and the characters who play important roles in the drama.
Latter-day Saints, under divine direction, have been, on the whole, conscientious record keepers. Not only have the vital facts connected with the growth of the Church and its various auxiliaries been quite faithfully recorded, but missionaries have consistently kept their diaries.
Further, members have been encouraged to keep their own personal journals. As a result, the Historian's office of our Church has become a treasure-trove of vital value for seekers after truth.
Letters, saved by appreciative ones, are also a rich source of what may be called living literature. Before the telegraph, telephone, and radio, the main means of communication was through correspondence.
Often the gospel was ''preached" by letters to relatives and dear friends, the saints enjoying its blessings were ever anxious that their loved ones might * 'embrace the New
Covenant," as the Prophet Joseph expresses it in a letter to his Uncle
Silas:
Kirtland Mills, Ohio,
September 26, 1833
Respected Uncle Silas:
It is with feelings of deep interest for the welfare of mankind which fill my mind on the reflection that all were formed by the hand of Him who will call the same to give an impartial account of all their works . . . that I take up my pen and seat myself in an attitude to address a few, though imperfect, lines to you for your perusal ....
Seeing that the Lord has never given the world to understand, by anything heretofore revealed, that he had ceased forever to speak to his creatures, when sought unto in a proper manner, why should it be thought a thing incredible that he should be pleased to speak again in these last days for their salvation? ....
I may believe that Enoch walked with God, and by faith was translated. I may believe that Noah was a perfect man in his generation, and also walked with God.
I may believe that Abraham communed with God, and conversed with angels, I may believe that Isaac obtained a renewal of the covenant made to Abraham by the direct voice of the Lord. I may believe that Jacob conversed with holy angels, and heard the word of his Maker, that he wrestled with the angel until he prevailed, and obtained a blessing .... But will all this purchase an assurance for me, and waft me to the regions of eternal day,

58
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— JANUARY 1949 with my garments spotless, pure, and white?
Or, must I not rather obtain for myself, by my own faith and diligence in keeping the commandments of the Lord, an assurance of salvation for myself? And have I not an equal privilege with the ancient saints? And will not the Lord hear my prayers, and listen to my cries as soon as he ever did theirs, if I come to him in the manner they did? Or, is he a respecter of persons?
I must now close this subject for the want of time .... We would be pleased to see you in Kirtland; and more pleased to have you embrace the New Covenant.
I remain, yours affectionately,
Joseph Smith, Jun.
{History Of Joseph Smith By His Mother
Lucy Mack Smith, chap. 44, pp. 232-237).
Some of our pioneers cultivated the art of letter writing to a high degree of excellence. Happily, they also took pride in their penmanship, and the paper they used was generally of lasting quality. Many a letter, or a packet of them, has been the source of invaluable help to historians and to literary writers.
Through these various means of preserving the past in its verities, one may more truly relive stirring scenes in the story of our Church.
We have already done so in our lessons on the beginnings of the divine work. Let us carry forward now by getting closer to what may be called the Ohio-Missouri period.
A time of intense activity— of stress and distress, it was, for the Latter-day Saints.
First of all there was the double transplanting of the new Churchone part to Kirtland, Ohio; the other to Independence, Missouri. . This was no light task, as we are shown vividly through the story Lucy
Smith, mother of the Prophet, has left for us. While the menfolk of the family had gone ahead overland to prepare the way, she was entrusted with a major responsibihty of bringing mothers and children by way of the Erie Canal, by boat over
Lake Erie, to Ohio. Her fervor for the restored gospel, her undaunted spirit and courage to meet emergencies, her leadership where men failed
—all vibrate through her sincere story- and impress us with those same qualities possessed by her eminent son.
A reading of chapter 38 of the littie volume History Oi Joseph Smith
By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith will serve to help make the story, and the character of Mother Smith live again.
Outstanding among the newly made converts in this Ohio center was Sidney Rigdon. Through the years this man was to perform a helpful part in forwarding, under the leadership of the Prophet, the work of the Lord. Indeed so close was their relationship during the developing days of the Church, that critics began to link Rigdon's name with the creating of the Book oi Mormon.
John, a son of Sidney Rigdon, ran into this story when he was out West in 1863. This tale disturbed the son so much that he determined to learn from his father the truth; so he returned to his old home, and happily found both of his parents still hale and clear of mind.
"You have been charged," said the earnest son to his aged father, "with writing the Book of Mormon, and giving it to Joseph Smith to introduce to the world. You have always told me the story that you never saw the book until it was presented to you by Parley P. Pratt and Oliver Cowdery; and all you ever knew of the origin of that book was what they told you, and what Joseph Smith and the witnesses who claimed to have seen the plates told you.

LESSON DEPARTMENT
59
Is this true? If so, all right; if it is not, you owe it to me and to your family to tell it. You are an old man and you will soon pass away, and I wish to know if
Joseph Smith, in your intimacy with him for fourteen years, has not said something to you that led you to believe he obtained the book in some other way than what he had told you. Give me all that you know about it, that I may know the truth."
My father, after I had finished saying what I have repeated above, looked at me for a moment, raised his hand above his head, and slowly said, with tears glistening in his eyes: "My son, I can swear before high heaven that what I have told you about the origin of that book is true. Your mother and sister, Mrs. Athalia Robinson, were present when that book was handed to me in Mentor, Ohio, and all I ever knew about the origin of that book was what
Parley P. Pratt, Oliver