[President Joseph F. Smith by T. Edgar Lyon]

President Joseph F. Smith Lesson 9. The Counselors to President Joseph F. Smith Lesson 10. President Heber J. Grant Lesson 11. The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant Lesson 12. The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant (continued ) Lesson 13. President George Albert Smith Lesson 14.
Review of Two-Year Course —> What grandeur of thought is suggested by the association of strong, majestic trees, by stupendous and lofty mountains.. The clinging tendrils of some luxuriant vine...
What exquisite tenderness and gentleness by..
These lessons which nature teaches alike to all, open up avenues of thought that carry us backward to past ages and forward as far as the vision of the mind can extend. —Woman's Exponent, July 1857, page 31.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 497
Lesson 8—President Joseph F. Smith (1901-1918) (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, October 25, 1949
Tue PREesiweNcy A Untr—THE TureE ARE ONE HEN the passing of President _ Lorenzo Snow disorganized the First Presidency in 1901, the man chosen to succeed him as President was well qualified for this highest calling. He was Joseph F. Smith, a son of Hyrum Smith, the martyred patriarch of the Church. He was born at Far West, Missouri, on November 13, 1838. He passed his early years in Nauvoo, Illinois, and remembered well the departure of his father and his uncle, the Prophet Joseph Smith, for Carthage, that fateful June day in 1844.
After the exodus from Nauvoo in 1846, he remained at Winter Quarters, Nebraska, with his widowed mother until the spring of 1848. 'Then, being still in his ninth year, he drove an ox team across the prairies and mountains to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, arriving there in September. He participated in the usual hard work of pioneering in a new land, and had the tragic experience of losing his mother when only fourteen years of age. At the age of fifteen he was sent on a mission to the Hawaiian Islands (Sandwich Islands) which was the beginning of his active service in Church leadership.
From that day until his death, sixty-five years later, he was almost constantly engaged in full-time service to the Church. He was ordained an apostle in PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH 1866 by Brigham Young and also as counselor to the First Presidency. In 1869, at a conference in Juab, Utah, Wilford Woodruff introduced Joseph F. Smith, and then said to the young people present: Look at him, children, for he resembles the Prophet Joseph more than any man living. He will become the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints (Wilford Woodruff, page 536).
This prediction was ultimately realized, but not until many years later.
During those years, however, he was an earnest worker in the Church. In the former lessons we learned that this man of unusual ability served as a counselor in the First Presidency to Presidents John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, and Lorenzo Snow. In this capacity he 498 traveled extensively throughout the wards and stakes of the Church and in the mission fields, giving counsel concerning temporal and _ spiritual matters, and exercising supetvisory control over many phases of Church activity.
When the First Presidency was reorganized in 1901, there thus came to its Presidency the first President born within the Church. We learned in the lessons last year of the serious financial condition which faced the Church in its pioneer period and later in the days of its long and intense struggle with the Federal Government concerning its political, civil, and_ religious rights. President Snow had already called upon the people to rededicate themselves to the temporal salvation of the Church, and had them pledge themselves to observe the law of tithing. President Joseph F.
Smith had been closely associated with President Snow in this work, and continued to emphasize this teaching. It appeared to him that setting in order the temporal affairs of the Church was a most pressing need, and he gave of his strength and vigor to place it on a secure footing. So well did he succeed in this that, by 1907, he was able to announce that the bonded indebtedness of the Church had been paid off and the Church could meet its current obligations.
Under his able leadership, the Church then commenced an extensive building program.
Many ward chapels and stake tabernacles were built and mission homes and chapels in the mission fields were purchased or erected. President Smith was a man of great feeling and sentiment, and he turned his attention to the task of  securing some of the locations that were closely connected with the eatly history of the Church. The old Smith homestead in Vermont-— the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith—was acquired, and a great symbolic monument was erected there.
Other sacred or historical shrines were acquired in New York, Missouri, and Illinois. The first hospital was erected by the Church in Salt Lake City—the forerunner of the large number that now dot Latter-day Saint communities. The beautiful Church Office Building was commenced in Salt Lake City and the Presiding Bishop's Building was completed to house the temporal offices of the Church and the rapidly expanding auxiliary organizations.
Land was also acquired and dedicated for the temples in Hawaii and Canada. The Church school system was also expanded. President Smith had a broad vision of the destiny of the Church. He was aware that if the Church was to grow and increase in the earth so that it could fulfill its destiny, it must be firmly established not only in the hearts of its converts and members, but also in the eyes of non-members. His inspirational insight led him to see that the Church must acquire the respect of the world and become a dynamic force for righteous leadership and thereby "come forth out of obscurity and out of darkness," as the Lord had commanded that it should (D. & C. 1:30). President Smith declared: It has always been a cardinal teaching with the Latter-day Saints, that a religion that has not the power to save people temporally and make them _ prosperous and happy here, cannot be depended upon to save them spiritually and to exalt LESSON DEPARTMENT them in the life to come (Heart of Mormonism, page 158). In this statement he was reiterating the teachings that the Prophet Joseph Smith had given to his people in Missouri and later in Illinois, The Latter-day Saint, according to the first Prophet of this dispensation, is living in eternity each day of his life, just as much as any day that is to follow either after death or following the resurrection. Therefore, the temporal and the spiritual Phases of life cannot be separated, nor should an attempt be made to view them as distinct entities, The tremendous energy that President Smith exerted to accomplish these many achievements was strongly supported by those able men who stood by him as his counselors in the First Presidency. We shall learn of them in our lesson next month. President Smith's time was not all consumed with attention to the temporal well-being of the rapidly expanding Church. He gave to the Church an era of powerful spiritual leadership. In 1906, the saints of Europe rejoiced in the presence of President Smith.
This was the first time the European Mission had been visited by a President of the Church while holding that office. As he traveled up and down the Church, visiting at conferences, Preaching in the annual and semiannual conferences, talking at funerals and public gatherings and writing short articles for the various Church Publications, he set 4 pattern of great spirituality, Everywhere he went he bore testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ and the validity of his atoning sacrifice. 499
Many people had become so busily engaged in everyday activities that they and their children had commenced to lose sight of the fact that One cannot work out his salvation alone for, without the atonement, one's efforts would be futile. Presjdent Smith devoted much of his spiritual teachings to calling this essential doctrine to Church members' attention. Another item of great importance for which the Church is indebted to him relates to his knowledge and statements concerning the work and character of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum, who was President Smith's father. He never tired of bearing testimony of the divinity of Joseph Smith's work. His personal reminiscences of his father and martyred uncle also held his audiences in Tapt attention. The accounts he related of the Prophet's humanity, his forgiving spirit, his sense of humor, his utter devotion to the cause of the Lord and his unselfishness, are among the literary treasures of the Church. It is related that sometime before his death he made the observation that, unlike some of his predecessors in the First Presidency, when he passed into the hereafter he would leave behind no written volume of theological expositions, no scriptural contributions or no poetic literature: or hymnology. Some of those who heard this questioned that his life had been so devoid of literary Productiveness, and they set themselves to the task of gathering his spoken and printed works.