[Vol12 | January 1925 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Vigilant Loyalty to our Standards of Government Elder George]

Vigilant Loyalty to our Standards of Government Elder George Albert Smith
Spiritual Education Dr. Adam S. Bennion
Editorial—The Gospel as a Guide
Mother's Milk Clinic
The Editor Abroad
A Perfect Ending of an Imperfect Year Eunice Iverson Gardner
Importance of Diet for the Expectant Mother
Women in the Utah Legislature
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Guide Lessons for March

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private Contain Bound Volumes of the Relief Society Magazine

Following are the bound volumes we have on hand:

5 vols. 1915, leather bound $3.50
2 vols. 1916, leather bound $3.50
2 vols. 1916, cloth bound $2.75
5 vols. 1917, leather bound $3.50
3 vols. 1918, leather bound $3.50
1 vol. 1919, cloth bound $2.75
5 vols. 1919, leather bound $3.50
10 vols. 1920, leather bound $3.50
7 vols. 1921, leather bound $3.50
6 vols. 1922, cloth bound $2.75
5 vols. 1922, leather bound $3.50

15c extra for postage

All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.

Competent Office Help—Is always in demand. If you are bright, alert, and ambitious, you will find a business college training a wonderful investment. This is the best time of the year to begin. Write or call today

L.D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
Day and Evening
SALT LAKE CITY
All the Year

KEELEY'S
ICE CREAM
CANDY
CAKE
PUNCHES
deliciously different

PHONE WAS. 3223

Individual Sacrament Sets
Now in Stock

BEST IN THE MARKET
WILL LAST A LIFE TIME
GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS
REFERENCES FURNISHED

Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.

Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.

SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed
Inquiries cheerfully answered

THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT

"I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."

Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION
Temple Block
Salt Lake City

W. M. McCONAHAY
THE JEWELER
So. Main
Phone Was. 1821
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine

Magazine Management will pay 20c per copy for the following Magazines:

February, 1924
March, 1924
April, 1924

Please notify office of the number you have on hand before mailing same to us.

NEW GARMENTS

The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request.

For Ladies:
No. 1—Flat Weave Light $0.95
No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light $1.25
No. 15—Extra Quality Flat $1.45
No. 803—Extra Quality Ribbed $1.50
No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton $1.85
No. 800—Silk Stripe Med. $2.00
No. 850—Imp. Lisle $2.50

For Men:
No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight $1.25
No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality $1.75
No. 925—Med. Light Weight $1.85
No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight $2.25
No. 990—Heavy Econ. Cotton $2.50
No. 9107—Wool & Cotton $4.00
No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton $4.50

To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States.

Oldest Knitting Company in Utah
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE
Main St., Salt Lake City

Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers
DUTCH CUT

They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
THE YEAR HAS GONE List to that sound—that rolling chime: Hark! 'tis the busy knell of Time:. The year has gone, And borne along The hopes and fears— The smiles and tears Of multitudes unknown to song. The year has gone, and in its train Such scenes of pleasure and of pain As bear us on From Life's first dawn, Thro' flowing deeps— O'er rugged steeps, Until life's glimmering lamp is gone. The year has gone—but mem'ry still The curtain holds with fairy skill: As if to keep 'Old Time asleep, While scenes roll back. Upon their track, And recollection takes a peep. Eliza R. Snow. MRS, ANNIE D. PALMER O WHITE-WINGED GULL Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Provo, Utah, Awarded First Prize the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest Thou white-winged gull! When e'er I hear The tale that made thy memory dear, How, when my native state was young, Her future in the balance hung, When Famine, gaunt and grim and keen, With tortuous hand outstretched, was seen, And thy swift mercy saved the day— I bow my head and humbly say: "I thank Thee, Lord. I thank Thee." Thou heaven-sent bird! Could I but heed The mighty voice that bade thee feed Upon the black and sickening swarm That covered pasture, land and farm; That bade thee feed with ravenous haste, And glut thy greedy, wanton taste— Could I but heed its whispers low, This thought were mine to feel and know; "I thank Thee, 'Lord, I thank Thee." Oh, white-winged gull! Could I but feel How much He cares for mortal weal; Wow, when my erring feet would stray, His hand will lead in wisdom's way; And if I faint or if I fall, His ear is quick to heed my call— Could I but learn how much He cares, This were the burden of my prayers: "I thank Thee, Lord, I thank Thee." Oh, heaven-sent bird! Could I but trust, And count life's keenest sorrows just; Could I but bend my selfish will, My Father's purpose to fulfil; Then would He love and succor me Like unto them He fed by thee— If I could only learn to trust, And humbly say, as say I must: "I thank Thee, Lord, I thank Thee." MRS, ALICE MORRILL THE PIONEER MOTHER By Mrs. Alice Morrill, Tridell, Utah, Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest Behold her busy at her task—no thought to turn aside nor shirk; Her faith but dignifies her toil; her hope but sanctifies her work; No thought to falter by the way, nor wish to rest from weary toil; A selfish life—no weak reproach, nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil, From out despair, has she not marched—the consummation of her quest, To be the peace and solemn, brooding, stillness of the desert west? The love-lit hour of holy prayer a beacon light of heaven shines, And through the silent hours of night she catches harmonies Divine. And yet within her bare, hard life, nor art nor high-born harmony, The unresponsive desert answers not her mute appeal for sympathy, But dares her try her strength to wrest from his bare breast mere sustenance, In this she turns her heart to God and bows to his, Omnipotence. Then goes afield to glean the heads of wheat left 'mongst the clods, And typifies the purpose, born of old, "Thy God shall be my God!" She gathers up her threads of love, and weaves the fabric of her life; Her aspiration but to be a duteous mother, faithful wife. A limitless expanse of wilderness surrounds her cabin home. The sun glares hot and pitiless by day; by night, the weird winds moan. Deep in her heart she makes a grave; lays there her hope of luxury, And gives her life, a ransom for the generations yet to be. Close folded in her arms, she clasps her scant-clothed child and smiles, As visions of his high estate the stillness of this hour beguiles; Alone, beside the couch of pain, she soothes her sufferer till the dawn. Yet looks above the deep blue vault and glimpses heavenly realms beyond. When death's hand snatches from her breast the babe that brought her soul's relief She clothes him in a common shroud with her own hand, and hides her grief. The cold, pale stars and far, white moon look down from out the upper deep, While lonely hill-crags, rising high, their mighty, silent vigil keep. The damp earth floor, whereon she kneels a shrine of worship comes to be, Her plain, hard fare becomes, to her a sacrament of sancitity. A priestess she, and prophetess, of far off, future, glorious years, When bloom of beauty shall unfold, at last, deep watered by her tears. The Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest In this issue of the Magazine are published the results of the second Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest. Forty-six poems were submitted. The judges were Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund of the' General Board, Prof, Alfred Osmond, head of the English department of the Brigham Young University, at Provo, Utah, and Miss Kate Thomas, a well known writer of Salt Lake. Oh, White-Winged Gull, written by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, cf Provo, Utah, is awarded first prize. Mrs. Alice Morrill, of Tridell, Utah, receives the second prize for her poem, The Pioneer Mother. Honorable mention is given the following poems, Where is Heaven?; A Question, Endurance, and Mother's Evening Prayer. These poems will be published in the Magazine in due time. Leadership Week Educaton for better home life will be the central theme for the fifth annual Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University commencing January 26, according to an announcement coming from the Extension Division. The week will be conducted along the lines followed. In the past but a number of new departments will be added. Among the new departments are: Interior Decorating; Reading for the Home; Training for Priesthood; Psychology of Childhood; Play Production. Other courses will be as follows: Social Welfare; Community Planning; Vocational Guidance; Scout Leadership; Music; Religious Education; Principles and Methods of Teaching Religion; Pageantry; Genealogy and Temple Work; Farmers Conference; Recreation; Foods and Nutrition; Clothing and to Home Health and Sanitation. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII JANUARY, 1925 No. 1 Vigilant Loyalty to our Standards of Government Elder George Albert Smith It is very unusual for me to try to talk to a subject—I usually talk from it, so far from it that I never discover it after I get away from it, but the question of loyalty is one that is very near to me. With the upset condition of this world, I am persuaded that there is not anything that we need much more than loyalty, loyalty to our heavenly Father, first of all, who has given us this wonderful world in which we live. Here we are comfortably seated in this structure reared of the materials that were created by him, and here we are in the companionship of his children, each of whom is dear to him, and we are here for the purpose of learning something of our duty one to the other, and among the things that are necessary is loyalty. There is not any such thing as a loyalty that is just a makeshift. There is not any such thing as a loyalty that hasn't any life in it. I like this term "vigilant loyalty," because unless our loyalty is vigilant it amounts to very little. I feel that enthusiastic loyalty as well as vigilant loyalty is proper. I am persuaded that among all the delightful things that we enjoy, our opportunities, our ideals, none of them are safe unlegs they are somewhat enthusiastic. I do not believe that even morality is safe unless it is enthusiastic. Unless we have a pride and determination and a joy and a feeling that it is worth while to be moral, we are in constant danger, and so I bring the same suggestion to our opportunities of life in this great country that the Lord himself prepared. He prepared all the various countries for the habitation of men, but he prepared this particular country and kept it here, according to his statements, from the people of the world, until the time should come when he would begin its settlement. So, as I look back and think of the coming of Christopher Columbus and all that went before, I realize how dangerous the journey was that brought the first people to our shores. I feel that there was inspiration behind it all, and the result was that there came to our shores eventually men and women whom I believe our heavenly Father reserved Pr 8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the time when it was necessary for heroic souls to come out from the nations of the world into the almost obscure and unknown. The. Prow of the boat in which Columbus sailed was pointed straight to Deleware Bay, and all of a sudden a flock of birds passed him and flew a little south of the direction in which the boat was going, so he directed the boat to follow in the course of the birds. That might happen a thousand times upon the ocean today, and mean nothing. In that case it meant the settlement of South America and that section of the country by the Spanish nation. The Anglo-Saxon race came later under the influence of prayer to land near Delaware Bay. It was no accident that our Father brought the Pilgrim Fathers to this world, any more than it was that he brought the Spanish nation to the islands of the West Indies and South America. There was a purpose in it all. God intended that these United States of America, this great northern American continent, in fact, should be dedicated to a people who love liberty and prize it, and who would serve him. The purpose of it all—the flight of the birds, the coming of the Pilgrim Fathers, the struggle for independence—was that the gospel of Jesus Christ might be established. In order that we might fave the liberty we enjoy, our heavenly Father had to prepare the stage. It was not prepared by Columbus, nor by those who came in the Mayflower; they were but the actors. The Lord hiinself had prepared the stage and had inspired the souls that were to perform their parts. Then there came a time later when those who had burning in their hearts a love of liberty revolted against the mother country—that wonderful government of Great Britain which has given to this land so many splendid men and women, and has given to the world so many advantages and opportunities by reason of its power. But in the Lord's way, another government was to be prepared, and the way was opened, and he said (you will find it in the Doctrine and Covenants) that he raised up the very men who prepared the Constitution of the United States. They were not here by accident. According to our Father's statement, he raised up those very individuals, and they were praying men. They were the kind of men who believed in the power of God. The man who led the army that fought for the independence of this land was a praying man—George Washington, and those who were associated with him believed in prayer. It is remarkable that when the Constitution was being formed some ot these men had forgotten the power of prayer and had forgotten their loyalty to the very source of all their happiness. They had forgotten only temporarily, however, just as we sometimes forget. I shall not ask you who are here today to say whether or not 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been brought into that land that I have just referred to, not by the blessings of our heavenly Father, but by the influence of the evil spirit that lurks beneath. So it is important that we exercise in our lives a vigilant loyalty to the standard of our government that our Father in heaven has given to us. I would not stand here and plead with you to recognize the gevernment of any individual against that of any other individuai, because men's minds are variable, and they make mistakes; but when I stand here and believe with all my heart that this form of government was inspired by the Lord. I feel perfectly safe and secure to say that we can well afford to measure with due consideration any suggestion that will modify the government of the land in which we live. There seems to be rampant in this world today a spirit of lawlessness, and in no other part of the world is it more dominant than it is in this wonderful land in which we live. I refer tothe attitude toward the law giving this country prohibition. There are hundreds and thousands of men and women who believe themselves to be good citizens of the United States, who violate the provisions of this law, and in a most flagrant way, without realizing that they are laying the ax at the roots of the tree of liberty, and unless they repent of their sins the next generation will jeopardize the liberty that we enjoy. In the communities where the Latter-day Saints dominate, it is the duty of every man and every woman, not only to obey the law of the land, not only to honor the law of the land, but to sustain loyally and vigilantly and enthusiastically the law of the land and those whose duty it is to carry it into effect. I believe our heavenly Father will be displeased with us as members of this Church if we carelessly permit the government of this nation to be, jeopardized, without raising our voices to say a word against the enemies of law and order. A liberty that is not worth contending for is not worth having. A blessing that is not worth working for is not of much value. This privilege we have of living in such a country as this is worth a tremendous effort on our part to sustain those ideals that will establish the next generation upon a foundation that will enable them to go on defending these laws and ordinances that our Father in heaven intended should tenefit the human family. There are some women who are a little careless about their franchise. I am proud to belong to a Church which was first to extend the franchise to women. It was the Prophet Joseph Smith who first turned the key for the emancipation of women of this world, and it was your organization in whose interest it was turned, and I am sure you are grateful for that. It was not a whim of his; it was an inspiration from the Lord. It was VIGILANT LOYALTY 11 necessary that those women who were to be the mothers of those who should build the country in a proper way should have something to do other than just to follow the behest of their husbands and their brothers. Sometimes we find individuals in both sexes 'who seem to think that they can get along very well without the other group, but I want to say that the Lord intended that both of the sexes should have their part, and he didn't intend that womankind should be in slavery to man. He did intend that there should be order, however, and so he has placed in every well ordered home, as the head of the family, the male member of the family—sometimes the inferior mind. But in so doing, the Lord has not said that woman should not be her husband's equal in all good things, and in the blessings that would flow to the sexes. And so, my sisters, you have been given not only your franchise in the Church, but you have been given your franchise in the country, in the Union in which you live. The Lord has given you these privileges. Your vote counts just as much as the vote of your husband or your brother, and it should be just as intelligently used. You ought to know that the laws of our country are just as far as possible; you ought to know what kind of men are placed before you, and in the full dignity of a daughter of the Lord you ought to go to the polls and cast your ballot in the interest of peace and good government. You must not stay home and say that it is not your affair. It is your affair, and our heavenly Father has made it possible for you to enjoy this particular blessing. We have in many of our towns a curfew law which is intended to bring our children home at a reasonable hour in the evening.. It is our duty to see that our children observe this law. Since it is a law in the community in which we live, it is our duty to see that it is observed. If they are permitted to violate this ordinance, it is only one step further for them to take something that doesn't belong to them, or to abuse some one contrary to the law. So we ought to be enthusiastically active in sustaining this law and other ordinances which are enacted to uplift and bless us as a people. I am glad there are some brethren here, to hear this because I feel that it is the duty of men. As well as of women to know where our children are at night. If we will draw our children home under the regulations of the curfew and inspire in them a respect for law, it will go a long way toward making them good citizens and making them what they ought to be. It has been my privilege recently to go over a portion of this marvelous country, and the farther I traveled and the more I saw, the more abundant was my gratitude to my Father in heaven for the way in which he has blessed us, and I feel to bow my head in thanksgiving and prayer that I have been permitted to iz RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE live in so favored a country. The Lord has blessed us and given us the power to say what shall be done in regulating the government of this land. Be not sidetracked by the influence of evil to listen to those who in the selfishness of their souls would destroy the beauty of our national consititution. It was prepared for the sons and daughters of our heavenly Father, to live at peace with all the world. There is no royal family among the people of this land. Each individual has a privilege equal to other individuals, if he will honor and respect the law. We may well ask ourselves the question, will we be among those who will be valiant henceforth and forever in maintaining and sustaining the law that our heavenly Father has given to us for our blessing and which he has made possible for us to enjoy and to bequeath to those who shall follow after us from generation to generation namely the privilege of worshiping him in spirit and in truth? Each in his own place and station, each in his own home, each at his own fireside, may exercise his influence under the blessing of our Father in heaven, that the power of the adversary will be turned aside, that peace and joy and happiness will continue with us. From the depths of my soul I am grateful for my membersship in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am thankful for this great organization that has accomplished so much among the children of men—this National Woman's Relief Society. I am grateful for my citizenship in this land that the Lord has given to us to enjoy, and thankful that I can go from place to place and see the handiwork of the Master of heaven and earth in the lives of the individuals with whom I associate, in the homes that are builded under the inspiration of the Lord, in the wonderful valleys and mountains that he has created for ~ eur comfort and blessing. I thank him with all my heart that I am a partaker in these gifts, and I feel today to say to you that if the Lord will give me wisdom, if he will continue to bless me with judgment, I desire to exercise such power as I have to maintain in an active, vigorous, enthusiastic way the franchise that he has given unto me, the blessing that has been bestowed upon me to have part in ordering the government of the land in which we live, and I desire to be worthy of it from now until the time shall come that I go hence. I desire also that all our Father's children, may enjoy this same blessing. I pray that your lives may be enriched by the labors you are performing, and that the characters which you are forming here will be so beautiful that when you go hence the Father will say, "You have honored me and my holy priesthood who have presided over you; you have honored yourselves, and I welcome you home to enjoy the companionship of those you love, throughout the ages of eternity." 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE beyond their years, but their spirits were dwarfed. I am impressed with the thought that I may be trained physically, I may exercise the muscles and bodily functions given to men, I may become an athlete, a pugilist, what I will, and my spirit be left wholly in the background; and yet I would not have you understand that the spirit is something which, like the conscience, may be carried around in one's pocket, to be brought forward for special Sunday or other emergency uses. I think there are those who do think of the conscience as a thing which may be sidetracked and brought out on Sunday. Elbert Hubbard said the truth when he expressed the idea that man should remember not only the Sabbath day to keep it holy, but the week days to keep them holy. Man's spirit or his spiritual powers are in, and shine through, his total functioning powers whenever he exercises himself toward the fuller development of all that is best and finest — in hith. I am convinced that the spirit of man permeates all of his other powers, and represents really the divinity that is in him. I was struck within the week with reading an address—if you share your material possessions, you divide them; if you share your spiritual possessions, you multiply them. If you divide a pie you have less than before you divided it, but if you share a smile you have more smile than when you started; if you share a story, or a good deed, if you share anything spiritual, your very sharing adds to it. Our question this afternoon is how may we develop that spirituality in man that it may take the lead over both the physical and the mental, that it may become the guide to man's life here in the world. Jesus Christ was the greatest personage born into the world because he caught most fully of the Spirit of his Father. Jesus was not trained academically, as some other men have been trained; we have never been told that he possessed great physical prowess, but he became the Savior of the world through manifesting a spirit beyond and unlike anything ever experienced by any other living soul. John reminds us that God is a spirit, and that they who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. When Elihu chided Job, he said, "But there is a spirit in man:'and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." (Job 32:8.) I take it your problem here today is not what this spirit is, but rather how can we better promote it? I am assuming that it is your responsibility as mothers to see that the homes of the Latter-day Saints keep the spiritual fires burning. I know you are charged to look after want and need, delinquency and social problems, but the greatest mission that can rest in your hands is to see that in the homes of Latter-day Saints, children are reared to fear God and to cherish his Holy Spirit. If I were to give a recipe for promoting spirituality, I think