INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN Member of General Board Inez Knight Allen Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, well-known to a host of friends in Relief Society circles, was called to the General Board. Of that organization, August 17, 1927. She is a woman of outstanding ability and personal charm, particularly gifted as a leader. She was born on a ranch near Payson and is the eldest daughter of Jesse Knight and Amanda McEwan Knight. The ranch had to adjust itself to practically all the needs of the family, consequently father and mother had to be teachers in addition to all the other. Duties exacted from parents on behalf of their children. Here Inez learned to write and spell and recite the multiplication tables. In the evening the ranch was regaled with visits from farm boys, who joining with the children of the Knight family, held good, lively spelling matches. To this, home training was added two terms spent in the Payson public schools. The Knight family now moved to Provo that the children might have better educational advantages. As a result, Inez entered the preparatory department of the Brigham Young Academy in 1889, remaining until 1896, when her course of study was completed. Her Church work began with the teaching of a Sunday School class in 1896. In 1898, this work was suddenly brought to an end by a call for a mission to England. This was somewhat startling to neighbors, as prior to this time women had been called on missions only in connection with their husbands. Mrs. Allen shares the honor with her sister-in-law, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, of being one of the first unmarried women to be called to do regular work in the mission field. While performing her mission she attended the session of the International Council of Women. While on her mission she assisted in conference work all over England and Wales, did six months work in Bristol, and eighteen months in the London district. While touring the continent she visited France, Germany, Switzerland and Holland. On her return from her mission she acted as matron of the Brigham Young University for two years, a position comparable to that of Dean of Women. At the same time she served her father as secretary, at a period when his business was daily reaching larger and larger proportions. On June 11, 1902, she married R. E. Allen, son of President Thomas L. Allen of Summit stake. Five sons have ' been born to their union, the third while his father was serving as a missionary in the British Isles. Three of the sons - have been called on missions. Two are at the present time in the mission field, while the two younger sons are doing college work in the Brigham Young University. Mrs. Allen's Relief Society work began in the office of secretary, a position which she held from 1904 to 1905. At the same time she taught the first parents class organized in the first ward of Provo, the ward in which she has lived since her marriage. On January 10, 1906, she was called to be a counselor to Martha B. Keeler, President of the Utah Stake Relief Society. She has always valued her connection with Mrs. Keeler, for with her. She became initiated into Relief Society work, During this period Mrs. Allen acted as chairman of a committee of the Utah Stake Board, to whom was committed the work of preparing and publishing a five year outline of study, a pamphlet which was used throughout Utah stake and in a number of other stakes, by permission of the General Board. This was before the General Board published outlines of study. Utah Stake had used some outlines prior to this time, prepared by President Martha B. Keeler. Mrs. Allen's. Work was a continuation in this line. When, in 1918, Mrs. Keeler saw fit to retire as President of the Utah stake, Mrs. Allen was appointed president, a position which she held from February, 1918, to January, 1924. Her term of office was a very progressive term. The method of doing charity work was in a sense revolutionized. A trained social worker was engaged and installed in the office and a community welfare system taking into account modern scientific methods of doing welfare work, was inaugurated. The progress made in this work, which was new and exceedingly difficult, marked Mrs. Allen as far-sighted ana as a leader of tact and insight. She has always been interested in public affairs. She was the chairman of the Utah County Council of Defense and Liberty Loan Committee during the World War. During Mr. Mabey's incumbency as governor, she acted on the State Welfare Board. She was vice-chairman of the County Red Cross, a position which she filled in a notable manner. She is the only woman in Utah county who has received the nomination on a ticket for the State Senate, and in 1924, she served her party as a delegate in the National Convention, which was held in New York City. She has inherited great sympathy and understanding of human kind from her parents and possesses in a very marked degree the philanthropic spirit of her father. She comes to 
 the General Board well prepared for the work, gifted as a speaker, with a breadth of vision and depth of feeling that makes her intelligent in her judgments as a sympathetic and tender in all her contacts.