Tamaki and Nuhaka Relief Societies. Our Relief Societies gave splendid reports and were eager to receive some instructions; 35 out of our 39 organizations were reported, and 22 of them by presidents. To encourage better record keeping we prepared a Maori printed minute book for three years, with roll also, and 26 organizations secured them at Hui Tau. Many samples of splendid hand work were entered in our contest, and the sisters displayed much interest in the same. Next year our contest will be in twopart singing, Maori for those over fifty years, and English for those under fifty. We learned of a boy who expected to have to leave the Maori Agricultural College due to shortage of funds, so Sister Polly Duncan, first counselor of the mission board, appealed to the Relief Societies represented, and sufficient money was raised to enable him to attend this year. This is only one example of the free-heartedness of these sisters. Our slogan for 1927 is, 'Every officer and teacher an observer of the Word of Wisdom by 1928,' which, if accomplished, will be a, wonderful thing for the Maori sisters. This is a brief report of our part of the Hui Tau, and we are all looking forward to next year, hoping to see great improvement." Tongan Mission. THE SISTERS OF THE TOGATABU DISTRICT Mrs. Ada B. Cahoon, president of the Relief Societies of the Tongan mission, writes as follows of some of their activities: "The work here is very encouraging at present, and the attitude shown by the sisters is excellent. Although the only book they have access to is the Bible, we find the lessons very interesting All three districts here in the Tongan mission observed the 17th of March by a program, luncheon and dance. A small sum was 
 charged for this and the money from all was donated to the mission for the new cistern and house that are nearing completion at the present time. The sum of 25 pounds and 8 shillings (£ 25- 8-0) was realized. We feel that this is splendid, after taking into consideration the poverty of the people at present; but everyone did his best to make the event successful, and the spirit shown was indeed encouraging. We receive the Relief Society Magazine regularly here at headquarters, and surely appreciaate it." German-Austrian Mission. Following are excerpts from a letter recently received from Mrs. Rose Ellen Valentine, president of the Relief Societies of the German-Austrian mission: 'We have just completed a series of Relief Society conventions, which were held in connection with the district conferences. Nine sessions were held with a total attendance of 370 workers and visitors. The following topics were treated by local sisters: 'An opportunity to be a member of the Relief Society,' 'A duty to be a member of the Relief Society,' 'A responsibility to be a member of the Relief Society.' An outline was given each president, which included a suggested division of responsibility and duties for each officer of the organization. A plan for the procedure in conducting the different meetings was also given. The theme of the convention was 'Organization,' and I am sure much good will result from these meetings. 'The workers, too, were highly enthusiastic, and the spirit of appreciation shown by them more than rewarded the meagre efforts put forth. Permit me to say that the Magazine was of inestimable value in working out our plans." Malad Stake. The Malad stake, at the close of last year, passed envelopes to all the members of the Relief Society, to be used for enclosing dues. The notation on the envelope read: "T am a paid-up member of the Relief Society. "NamMe.....-. Cece ee cee eee eee eeees Carbon Stake (Price Ward). With aview of securing annual dues-early and promptly for 1927, the Price ward, at the close of 1926, distributed cards which read as follows: "PRICE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY "This card is to remind you that your annual dues are now payable. Kindly enclose 50 cents and return to your president at your earliest convenience, or give to your visiting teacher on her next call. Sign your name here. "Every enrolled member must be accounted for, therefore if you neglect the obligation, someone must pay it for you."