[Vol14 | November 1927 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Arizona Temple Frontispiece]
Arizona Temple | By Fay Ollerton, M. A. Five years ago the temple grounds at Mesa, Arizona, were part of an irrigated tract, close to the desert mesquite and cactus; and the interior of a "Mormon" temple was an enticing mystery to the uninitiated.

Today a building, beautiful in its classic simplicity and gleaming walls of white terra cotta, stands in the center of green lawns, brilliant flowers, and slender cypress trees; and thousands of tourists pass weekly through the temple portal.

They go in, many of them inclined to be amused, and afire with curiosity.

But when they exit through the entrance door, with its inscription, "Holiness to the Lord," the questioning look is gone, and they walk with unseeing eyes through the long foyer of comfortable seats and vases of flowers and out of the hallway, as if they, too, had received some longed for understanding.

If they come out not temple worshipers, they are at least impressed and silenced by the beauty they have witnessed.

The Arizona temple has been open many months to all who throng the highway.

And the highway, for the "Mormon" building lies on the south side of the old Apache trail, now a smooth band of cement.

In less than two years 150,000 tourists, three-fourths of whom are non-Church members, have been guided through the temple, either by Elders Irvin King and Raymond Stewart of the California mission, or volunteers from the Maricopa stake.

At the time of this writing, a little less than a month before the temple will be forever closed to chance visitors, the tourists are flocking in by the hundreds and thousands daily.

On the third Sunday in September more than fifteen hundred of them thronged the building, one group following on the literal heels of another. 
 For some time, Tuesday has been the only week night open to visitors outside the Church, but so great has been the demand that every night for a month previous to the dedication, the gates will be opened.

The devotees come, not as they did to temples of old, on camel back and bearing gifts; instead they ride in cars: rattling rusty ones of the modern hobo, camp-laden ones of the vacationist, and the upholstered purring limousines of the wealthy.

In place of the gifts they ride laden with questions, and they do not leave the sacred building until their interest has been fed.

Every week an average of thirty-three states and two or three foreign countries are registered.

It is rather a strange fact that of all the races, the negroes seem to be the most interested.

Practically every negro in Arizona, and Arizona, considering her small population, has a large number of them, has visited the temple at least once.

They go through the building in specially conducted groups, and they listen intently to the explanations given in the lecture rooms. _ It is to James W. Lesueur, many years head of the Maricopa stake, and present assistant to the chief official in the temple, that honor goes for first suggesting the building to President Joseph F. Smith.

Mr. Lesueur has been one of the voluntary guides and has taken many interesting persons on his rounds.

Descendants of the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon have gone through with him; Oliver Cowdery's grandson from Cleveland, the grandson of David Whitmer, and Lehi Harris, worker on the temple and grandson of Martin Harris.

Through cooperation with the railroads and automobile companies, the visitors have been made acquainted with the temple.

Governor Lowden spent several interesting hours with Ex-president Lesueur.

John Galsworthy came to Mesa, prepared to stay until his curiosity concerning the ""Mormons" was satisfied.

He was in the temple more than three hours, carefully questioning his guide.

"He took little interest in the building itself," Mr. Lesueur said, "he wanted to know about our belief and philosophy, and how we managed to keep our contacts with the young people of the Church." Another noted visitor was Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt.

One day thirty financiers and professional men, some of whose names are household words, were in the temple for an afternoon.

Among them were Mr. Curtis and his wife of the_ Saturday Evening Post, and their interest rivalled that of the English novelist.

MULTITUDES THRONGED ARIZONA TEMPLE 531 A woman came to the temple one afternoon with the announcement that she had read of the Mesa building in a Buffalo paper, and had straightway crossed the continent.

"I've always wanted to see the inside of a 'Mormon' temple," she confessed, "and I decided this would be my one chance." Harold Bell Wright, for many years an inhabitant of Arizona, has written to know the latest date of the temple's closing, and if he may be admitted.

Equally anxious is the Contractors' and Builders' Union of the Pacific Coast.

This organization recently requested the officials to allow them to inspect the building one day after its official closing on October 16. Perhaps one of the most prolific days in Church history came when a car with eight persons stopped on the Apache Trail long enough to inquire about the new building.

They lingered in the temple for several hours and returned later.

Not long after, they were all baptized.

"It is a fact, " Expresident Lesueur said, "that more than a hundred baptisms in this county alone can be directly traced to the influence of the temple." And so the visitors continue to pour in.

The members of other churches in the surrounding country, who.

Have long been familiar with "Mormon" tenets, show greater interest in the building, the missionary guides say.

They want to know what the panels on the outside walls represent, the significance of the beautiful baptistry resting on the twelve terra cotta oxen, and the interpretation of the picture representing the creation of the world.

Visitors from more distant parts appreciate the loveliness of the rooms, but question the guides as to beliefs and customs.

Yet there are two rooms, the last to be visited, that invariably haunt the tourists with a desire to return.

The first is the room typifying the future, beautiful in its chaste ivory lines, and the other the celestial room, its simplicity relieved by hangings of rich red velvet, Persian rugs, and especially designed furniture and mirrors.

Opening from this room are the two small chambers where marriage is performed, and the visitors are always agog with curiosity when they step onto the soft rugs and smell the flowers from Salt River Valley gardens.

"Ts it true,' one interested matron asked, "that all 'Mormon' children over twenty-one have to obey their parents when they have been sealed to them?" She looked as if she would immediately.

Become a member of that faith if the guide answered in the affirmative.

As yet the plans for the dedication have not been defi- 3? 532 RELIEF SOCIETY iMAGAZINE nitely announced.

It is thought that the dedicatory services will be held two or three times daily for a week, and that most of the Church authorities will be in attendance.

A special anthem has been written; it, with the prayer, will be given at all meetings.

Ten choirs will be present, one Indian choir from the Papago ward.

The Los Angeles and Hollywood choirs will sing early Sunday morning "from the roof of the temple.

Mesa with its charm of broad streets shaded by drooping peppers, lacy tamarisks, and inviting palms, is making itself even more beautiful for the event.

The inhabitants expect more visitors than have yet come at one time during the last six months that the temple has been completely furnished.

These visitors, while they will not, in a sense, be more welcome than the preceding ones, will be those who have long.

Looked forward to the day when the Southwest will have its own gathering place.

Their welcome will be one of completer understanding, for they, with the Latter-day Saints in Maricopa stake, are happy in the thought that the young people will not have to make the expensive journey northward, and that the older members can realize desires of spending their fading years in one of the temples.

Dedicatory week, beginning on October 23, will be joyful days for the visitors and the dwellers of the desert oasis.
