Genevieve Thornton The Magazine is particularly gratified to present to its readers a sketch of the life of Miss Genevieve Thornton, who has been employed to supervise the case work of the Family Welfare Department of the Latter-day Saints Relief Society at Relief Society Headquarters. Miss Thornton comes to her new position especially -well prepared for her work. From her childhood she has been exceedingly ambitious. During one year of her high school work it was not possible for her to attend school, so she did her studying at home and passed an examination at the end of the school year that was of very high grade. She did her first college work in the Branch Agricultural College in Cedar City, afterwards completing her college course at the University of Utah. In the college at Cedar City she indicated her interest in social work by upholding the affirmative in a college debate on the question of a legal minimum wage for women in industry. While attending the University of. Utah she did field work for the Family Welfare Department of the Relief Society by special arrangement, and was employed by this organization as social worker for three years following her graduation. Miss Thornton was born in southern Utah, at Pinto, Washington county. She is the daughter of Edmund T. And Jennie Sargent Thornton. Her paternal grandfather was Amos Thornton and her maternal great-grandfather was William Snow. The names of these two men are household names in southern Utah. They were called to go to that part of the country and settle, and the achievements of their sons and daughters are yearly proclaiming the worth of their forbears. The family lived at Pinto and New Castle, a town settled by Pinto people, until a year ago, when they made Delta their home. Miss Thornton left Utah to enter the graduate school of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago, from which institution she took her Masters degree in 1926. Miss Thornton's thesis made a study of public school provision for deaf, blind and crippled children in Chicago, the first city in the United States to make adequate educational provision for such children. This study included a first hand study of the special schools for crippled, the special centers for deaf and hard of hearing children, and the Braille and sight-saving classes for blind and partially sighted children. After taking her masters degree she was employed as social worker with the United Charities of Chicago, a family welfare organization which cared for nearly 12,000 families during the year 1926. Concerning this experience, one of the daily papers says: "Due to the foreign born and negro element in the population of Chicago and the fact that Chicago is a great industrial center, social work there offers a most varied experience." After leaving the employ of the United Charities, July 1, 1927, Miss Thornton spent three weeks visiting social service organizations, including the large church agencies in the larger cities in the East. One interesting feature in relation to Miss Thornton's work is the fact that last spring when Judge Victor P. Arnold of the Chicago Juvenile Court ordered a competitive examination for probation officers, Miss Thornton was one of a group of nearly 200 who took this examination. The citizens' examining committee in its report placed her tenth on the list of eligible officers. Through the summer of 1926, Miss Thornton was a res- MISS GENEVIEVE THORNTON, M. A. Supervisor of Case Work in Family Welfare Department, Relief Society ident at Hull House, a historical social settlement founded by Jane Addams in 1889, in the midst of large foreign colonies in Chicago. "In the beginning of the social settlement work at Hull House, northern Europeans filled in the surrounding space. Then the population shifted and southern and eastern Europeans came in. The newest comer of all is the Mexican. Yet, through the shifting scenes, Hull House has not ceased in its activities, but has provided an ever increasing number of social opportunities for the people of the neighborhood. Everybody who has visited Hull House remembers, the theater in which Hull House players, who are the neighborhood people, are the actors. A nursery for the children of working mothers and a dental clinic are among the features of this settlement." Miss Thornton has also had experience in the Chicago social settlement, close up to the stockyards where one is reminded with every breeze that blows that she is in contact with one of the not very agreeable features of our modern industrial life.. Recently at the organization of the Women's International League For Peace, in Salt Lake City, Mrs. J. A. Hogle was chosen temporary chairman and Miss Genevieve Thornton temporary secretary. Miss Thornton is a woman of marked refinement and of very gentle manners. She is the first person from New Castle, her home community, to take a Master's Degree, and one of very few to take a Bachelor's Degree. She is the most highly trained supervisor that the Welfare Department has as yet had on its staff. We congratulate Miss Thornton on her achievements and we also congratulate the Welfare Department of the Relief Society on the appointment of one so well fitted to carry on this very important branch of its work.