[Vol14 | November 1927 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The United Order J. M. Sjodahl]
the United Order is taught.* That it is also taught in the Book of Mormon is strong' proof of the divine inspiration of that volume.

Joseph Smith could not, from his knowledge of the New Testament, have invented the story in Fourth Nephi; nor could anyone else.

Community of Interests Among Indians.

Again the question arises whether Indian culture as recorded knows any community of interests— a koinonia—such as that described in the fourth book of Nephi.

And again the answer is a wonderful confirmation of the Book of Mormon; for, in fact, the very foundation of the highest Indian social structure is community of interests.

Construction of Indian Society.

Unlike civilized society in our day, Indian society was made up of gentes, totems, or *Secs. 51:3; 9; 70; 78:5; 82:17; 72:11; 82:20; 104:1; 104:68; 105:34, ose RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE clans, and not of families.

The gens is a body of "consanguineal kindred,' whether by birth or adoption.

They all live together in one house or lodge, and are under obligation to assist one another.

Each gens is self-governing.

It elects its own chieftain and decides on all questions of property within its own limits.

Marriage within the gens is prohibited, and descent is, in many instances, traced, and property descends in the female line only.

When descent was reckoned through the female line, the husband joined through marriage the gens of the wife.

Property, with the exception of a few articles of personal necessity, belonged to the wife, and the husband had no claim on it.

The price of a man, if killed, was only three-fourths that of a woman, among the Hurons.

This social arrangement seems very strange to us, but it was similar to that which prevailed among the Semites in the days of Abraham.

Sarah was the "princess," as the name implies.

That is, she was the chieftainess, and her position went by inheritance to her successors, Rebekah, Leah, Dinah, and Sarah, the daughter of Asher, the son of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid. ' (Num. 26:46.) In Egypt, too, in those days, the woman was the mistress of the house.

She held the property, and inheritance was through the female line.

This social feature was 'preserved among the American Indians, as it is to this day, to some extent, among the Arabs of the desert.

A group of gentes or clans formed a phratry or brotherhood, generally for religious purposes, and a group of phratries constituted a tribe.

The tribe was governed by a council.

The chief was elected by that body, and his authority was.

Limited to affairs of peace.

For war, a war chief was elected by the council, and he was supreme while there was war.

The Long House.

The Long House of the Iroquois Indians illustrates the principle of a united order.

This habitation was from fifty to a hundred feet long.

The interior was divided off in compartments, six or eight feet each, and open towards a passageway or aisle which ran through the center of the house.

There was one fire-place to each four rooms, and this was used by the four families occupying the rooms nearest.

"Thus a house with five fires would contain twenty apartments and accommodate twenty families, unless some apartments were reserved for storage.

They were warm, roomy, and tidily-kept habitations.

Raised bunks were constructed around the walls of each apartment for beds. * * * Whatever was taken in the hunt or raised by cultivation by any THE UNITED ORDER oat 53 member of the household * * * was for the common benefit.

Provisions were made a common stock within the: household." To that extent they had preserved the principle of the "United Order," which was practiced by the Nephites as related in the Book of Mormon.

This was, as Dr. Brinton says, the ideal theory of the American tribal organization.

And we may recognize its outlines almost anywhere on the continent, although it was carried out sometimes with more, sometimes with less, faithfulness to the perfect pattern.

In Peru the principles of the United Order were applied on a larger scale and more in detail than anywhere else.

There is a striking similarity between the ideals and aims of these Iroquois reformers and those of the Peruvian Incas.

The rulers of Peru also aimed at the unification of the nations under one divinely appointed head, and, although their power was that of absolute despotism, they generally sought to overcome Opposition by the exercise of paternal benevolence.

Where, then, we may ask, did the prehistoric inhabitants of America dbtain their ideas of a "Millennial" kingdom on this earth?

Whence came their inspiration?

There is, as far as I know, only one answer to that question.

The marvelous light which their ancestors once enjoyed, as related in the Book of Mormon, was never entirely extinguished.

Here and there a spark from the divine fire was glowing, dimly, uncertainly, but yet perceptible to men and women who had the gift to see and to reflect.

In others words, they had traditions, in more or less imperfect form, of the institutions and teaching of their ancestors, and of the gospel that promises a reign of peace on earth.

And they were endeavoring, in' their imperfect way, to follow the dim light, in the hope of finally reaching the goal—the "golden age" of which prophets and poets in all ages have spoken.

Prayer By Christie Lund Lord, in this hour of night Lord, in this dark despair Show us the way; Teach us to feel Give us again the light That thou canst hear our prayer Of happy day.

Tho' mute we kneel.

Strengthen our wayward feet To firmly stand; Down in this darkness deep, Give us thy hand.
