CHEERFULNESS.

	Who would not be beloved and beautiful? I
believe I can truthfully say there are none who
have not this desire. Some say the desire to
please is selfish; so it is, and we are all selfish.
Some who have not good judgment go too far, and
try to please all. This is indeed a fault. To be
agreeable and pleasant we do not necessarily
have to yield to others and should never do so,
when we feel that we are in the right; but in little
things it is often a positive pleasure to yield. But
how often have bad habits been formed by giving
way because we wish to be agreeable; how often
do we hear it said, "Yes, I took a drink because I
wanted to be agreeable; then the boys all make
light of you if you refuse," and it is so with most
bad habits. Who could admire one who would go
to such extremes to "be agreeable?" No one;
the person is certainly weak, and although per-
haps good natured and pleasant, you cannot ad-
mire him as one who knows right from wrong, and
uses his own good judgment instead of being led
by others.
	We all know right from wrong. God has blessed
us with this knowledge, and even those who deny
Him have that knowledge within their breast, and
there it remains in spite of their every effort to
destroy it. This is a beautiful world that God has
given us, and we all have our own little part to
perform. Shall we be cheerful, bright and pleas-
ant, and scatter joy and love about us, forget our
little sorrows and perplexities to wipe away tears
from some beautiful eyes and cheer some sad
hearts that have been burdened with cares? Oh,
if we would all try, what a beautiful world it would
be! God would smile upon us, and angels watch
over us. Then we would be indeed beloved and
beautiful.
	How blessed is a home with a sweet, cheerful
mother. 'Tis hard sometimes for anxious, nervous
mothers to be cheerful, but there is not much
gained by being cross and gloomy. Each unkind
word makes us feel more nervous and tired, and
after spoken what harsh, hard feelings they leave
in the breast. All thrive in a cheerful atmosphere.
How tired we all feel after a long, cold winter, and
how blissful are the first bright days of sunshine.
Just as the buds expand and grow under the
bright sunlight, do our souls grow and become
beautiful by the sunshine of cheerfulness.
