OUR CHILDREN.

	I felt sorry for a young mother, and her chubby
urchin, too, whom I happened to see passing
through the trying ordeal of getting the child's
face washed. The little one was in open rebellion,
kicking and screaming, while his mother scrubbed
away at his face and ears with great diligence, at
the same time scolding and threatening him in an
excited and exciting manner.
	"It is such a trouble to wash children," she re-
marked to me.
	"Yes," I replied, "but I see no necessity for so
much trouble as you seem to have. Mine do not
give me half so much, though I presume they
would if I managed them as you do yours."

[Column 2]

	"Why, then, how do you manage yours? Do
please tell me," she said imploringly.
	"To be frank, then," I answered, "let me first
tell you how I think you mismanage yours. You
go to work on his face and ears as though you
were scrubbing a floor or polishing a brass bucket.
Do you not suppose it hurts him very much? It
would me."
	"Well, but I must get the dirt off from him
while I'm about it," she said with a faint smile.
	"It does not require such rubbing and digging
as that, though," I responded. "If mine were so
very dirty I would put water on and let them soak
awhile, till the dirt would come off easily."
	"But I can't spend time for that," she said.
	"It would take but little if any more of your
time, and not nearly so much of your strength as
the struggle you have just been having; besides,
it would be teaching your child to be more gentle,
and more willing to yield to your wishes," I ex-
plained. And then I told her how, when bathing
my little ones, I tried to give my mind to it, and
make the task as agreeable as possible, both to
them and myself, never missing an opportunity for
instructing them on any principle that might be
brought up in our conversation, and wound up by
relating a pleasing Saturday morning's experience,
which occurred with myself and my little boys a
few weeks since.
	The young mother was delighted with my story,
which I gave somewhat in the form of a dialogue,
and being a great admirer of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, she insisted that I ought to write it for
that paper, that it might be a benefit to many
others like herself; and so, acting upon her sug-
gestion, here it is:

