EDITORS WOMAN'S JOURNAL: 
	All suffragists in States which have mem-
bers of the House of Representatives on the
Committee on Territories are earnestly reques-
ted to write at once and urge them to use their
utmost influence against the disfranchisement
of Utah women. That Committee consists 
of: 
	William H. Hill, Ohio; William M. Springer, 
Illinois; J. Thomas Spriggs, New York; 
Charles E. Boyle, Pennsylvania; George T. 
Barnes, Georgia; Thomas W. Sadler, Alabama;


William H. Perry, South Carolina; William
Damson, Missouri; Isaac S. Struble, Iowa;
Charles S. Baker, New York; William C.
Cooper, Ohio; Binger Herman, Oregon; George
D. Symes, Colorado; Anthony Joseph, New
Mexico.
	These gentlemen's postoffice address is,
"House of Representatives, Washington,
D. C."
	Suffragists in other States will please write
Mr. Hill, the chairman of the Committee, at
the above address, and thus enable the Com-
mittee to see how wide and strong is the opposi-
tion to the proposed wrong.
	As the Boston Record objects to my sugges-
tion that we should oppose Senator Edmunds's
re-election next year, let me say no one ob-
jects to him because of his opinions. We do
so because of his acts. It is one thing to hold
an opinion; quite another to force others to act
on that opinion. Mr. Edmunds's opinion in
favor of continuing the existing disfranchise-
ment of women might be overlooked; his dis-
graceful suggestion that women cannot be
voters without degrading themselves might be
pardoned; his dogged efforts to prevent women
from earning an honest living at the bar (on
which issue we beat him two to one in the U.
S. Senate) might be forgiven; but his effort to
take the suffrage away from non-polygamous
women who have had the legal right for half
a generation, and in whom that right has be-
come vested, is unpardonable. Mr. Edmunds,
as a lawyer, knows that this vested right can-
not be rightfully taken away, and that if this
is done, it will be a sheer act of despotism, as
well as the infliction of an odious penalty, dis-
franchisement, on citizens who have committed
no crime.
	Let me add that, during a long residence in
Washington, in which I saw considerable of
Mr. Edmunds, I did not discover the high
qualities claimed for him.
		HAMILTON WILLCOX.
	New York.


