BY M. W TANNER.

I'm going home across the trackless prairie,
	O'er which we wandered many years ago;
Then we were sad and footsore, worn and weary,
	Bending our steps t' escape the wanton foe.

I mark the plains o'er which our feeble footsteps
	Trod sore and long upon the burning sands,
And almost fancy I can see the waymarks
	Made by those homeless, emigrating bands.

The plains reach out to meet the far horizon,
	As bleak and bare and arid as of old;
And fading trails, where wandered once the bison,
	Still dimly show along the grassy mold.

The skies are blue, with here and there a cloudlet,
	The sunshine glimmers on the stunted grass,
But not a tree nor any flowering leaflet
	To greet our vision as we quickly pass.

I sit and think of years so far behind us,
	Far in the long dim regions of the past,
And of the footprints left that oft remind us
	Of life's dim changes that are fleeting fast.

Man's careless steps have even now invaded
	These lonely plains and barren solitudes;
And from his mind the memories dim have faded,
	Yet o'er my soul the silent vision broods.

I seem to see the little band of wanderers,
	Driven from home, from kindred ties and friends,
Chilled by the frosts; or fainting in the sunshine,
	As slowly on their toilsome journey wends.

I seem to hear once more the wild coyote,
	Whose dismal walling rent the midnight air—
The little bands, as darkness closes around them,
	Bending their knees to say their evening prayers.

I often wonder where their steps have wandered,
	And where their homes, and what their fate has been;
And many times in silence I have pondered
	In silent thought o'er long forgotten scenes.

We meet, we part, and often in that parting
	We carry with us scenes of bygone days,
And many times we wist not of the smarting,
	As all have gone their own divided ways.

But oft the mind to the far past reverting
	Finds in the heart a dim and fading thought,
And memory's page some silent hour diverting,
	With early friends and transient scenes are fraught.


[Column 1]

	"No weapon that is formed against thee shall
prosper, and every tongue that shall rise
against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn.
This is the heritage of the servants of the
Lord, and their righteousness is of me; saith the
Lord".—Isaiah, chapter 54, last verse.
	"What shall one then answer the messengers
of the nation? That the Lord hath founded
Zion, and the poor of His people shall trust in
her.—Isaiah, chapter 14, last verse."

	In my experience through life I have ob-
served in my own mind, and no doubt others
have noted the same, that under trials from
which we see no outlet, the mind acquires a
feeling of prescience and intuition of coming
events, and earnestly desires to entertain the
feeling and give return to it in all laudable
and innocent researches.
	Many years ago I had a dear old nurse, who,
though not an educated woman according to
the schools, was of a deep meditative mind;
was a great reader of the Scriptures, they be-
ing her whole library. She had a sweet,
spiritual mind, and a devout soul, without one
grain of Methodistical cant or hypocrisy of
any sort. I do not think she was of any par-
ticular church, though she occasionally at-
tended the Independent Methodist place of
worship; she would not have dared to receive

[Column 2]

the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, but, like
one of old, "stood afar off" admiring with
deep and holy reverence those who were so
privileged feeling. "Oh! how blessed are those
who can partake, but it is not for me." Some
of my readers may probably never have met
such a character, and hence they will be quite
unable to comprehend the beauty and extreme
piety of such a woman; indeed, she was by no
means a common character; she was one whom
the Savior would have loved, and, like Mary,
she would have followed Him even to the
cross.
	She read in the Epistles that on points of
doctrine on which she desired to be informed,
she was to "ask her husband at home;"
but alas! her husband might, with all propriety
have sat at her feet and been taught by her!
So, like many others, she "kept the even tenor
of her way," and did the best she could to
work out her salvation, and that, she realized,
seemed but very little towards making "her
calling and election sure," and I often realized
when she returned from meeting that her soul
had not been fed; I could even feel that she
was smiling "in her sleeve" at his nonsensical
talk, but she was too reverent and innately
pious to give vent to any criticisms. I would
sometimes read the Bible to her, and when fin-
ished, she would heave a sigh and say, in her
own peculiar tone, "Ah! what a fine thing it is
to be able to read and understand what you
read."
	One day we were somewhat in trouble, and
we were puzzled to know what we should do,
and she then said, "Well, when I feel that I
want to know if the Lord has a word for me
I take my Bible and ask Him to give me some
light through the action I am going to perform;
I then take a long needle, and I run it into
where I know the Psalms are, or into the New
Testament, and I have many times been struck
at the answers I have received."
	Upon that hint I have often taken the same
course, and, like my dear good nurse, have re-
ceived comfort and support.
	Once in a most remarkable manner I was in
much affliction through enemies; I believe the
only wicked enemies I ever had—(in Zion, too.)
My soul was indeed in deep waters; I almost
thought that I should be overwhelmed. I one
day left my work, shut all the doors, being
alone in the house, and knelt down and poured
out my whole heart to the Lord. I arose from
my knees without feeling much refreshed, and
again took up my needle work, and as I did so
my eyes fell on my little prayer book laying on
the table; it contained the Psalms of David; in
an instant my nurse came mentally before me,
and I remembered her sweet, childlike method
to get comfort when in trouble. I took up the
book, thrust in the needle, and lo! it rested on
the first verse of the thirty-seventh Psalm. I
read and re-read till I came to the tenth verse,
when I involuntarily threw up my hands and
said aloud, "Lord, this is revelation!" I
trembled as though an angel stood before me;
I realized it was the voice of God to me; it
struck every chord that had been drawn to
their utmost tension in my wounded soul, and
the vibration was joy, peace, and a conviction
that God was with me. Were I to live a
thousand years I should never forget the feel-
ings of that hour! I have lived to see every
word literally fulfilled of that glorious psalm;
the tenth and last verse remarkably so. I re-
quest my readers to read this psalm at once, for
they will see with me its potency. Many, many
times have I derived comfort and instruction
from this most simple process, and been sent
on my way rejoicing.
	A few days ago, feeling sad under the heavy
cloud we are under by our unjust oppressors,
the simple process came to my mind; I took
my little book and my needle, asking the Lord
to give me a word upon the present persecu-

[Column 3]

tions, and the needle rested upon the first verse
I have given at the top of this article. I tried
the second time, and the second verse was
given, and I could not resist the impulse of
giving it to the readers of the EXPONENT:
	"Let none smile and say with unjust judges,
It is superstition. The Lord hideth himself
from the self-righteous, and revealeth His
words to the meek and lowly who put their
trust in Him, and labor day by day to shew
faith by their works."
	I could give many more equally startling
answers to prayers, received by the same sim-
ple process. Remember, it is to the word of
God we look for aid, and from nothing lower
or inferior. Why has this holy book, the old-
est in the world, stood the test and the wonder-
ful vicissitudes it has passed through, these
many centuries, and been the stay and sheet-
anchor of so many generations, with its mighty
principles, its divine ethics, its consoling doc-
trines, its stupendous revelations and more than
I have language to elaborate. Why should
not the Christian have faith in it as the word
of God? not a dead, or abstract faith, but the
faith that will and can and does "remove
mountains" every day to the eye and under-
standing of those who have a living faith in
Him, such as the wise child has in its earthly
parent, knowing that even if he sees that re-
proof is needed, that it is in love and for his
advancement in wisdom, knowledge and un-
derstanding. Let us, then, be meek and sim-
ple and confiding as the child, for the Savior
said such was the type of the kingdom of hea-
ven. How simple were the means which the
Savior used in some of his greatest and grand-
est miracles; it is the prayerful, the humble
and the faithful spirit that by simple means
calls down the divine aid and needed blessing
in the often trying hour, when "man's extrem-
ity is God's opportunity." The faith of the
Latter-day Saints is the faith "once delivered
to the Saints," and they realize that God is
with them, that Christ is their Captain, that
their religion is "the everlasting Gospel" that
He instituted, and of which He said "the gates
of hell shall not prevail against it."
