SATURDAY MORNING.
	Willie. (in the bath) "I don't want my head
washed, mother."
	Mother. "Oh! yes; your head needs to be
clean as well as the rest of your body. You can't
think so well if it is not. Don't you know that
when your eyes are not washed clean you can't
see so well as you can when they are?"
	Willie. "Yes, ma'am."
	Mother. "Well, when your head is not washed
and clean, you cannot think so well, either."
	Willie, (wonderingly). "Do we think with our
hair?"
	Mother, (laughingly). "No! In thinking we
use our brains, and the brain lies just under the
scalp, which is the covering to the head. The
hair does not sense anything. You know when
your hair is cut you do not feel it."
	Willie. "I don't feel it when my hair is cut, but
when it is pulled it hurts."
	Mother. "It hurts you, but it is your head that
feels the hurt, not your hair. I have rubbed your
head well, now you must keep your eyes shut
while I wash off the soap."
	Willie. "I'll keep my eyes shut and my mouth,
too."
	Mother. "That's right. Now I'll dip the cloth
in cold water, and rince your head and neck, so
you will not take cold."
	Willie. "All right; I'll be brave and not hol-
low."
	Mother. "That's a good boy. I'll wipe your
head and hair as dry as I can with a warm towel,
especially about your ears, and you must not go
out into the wintry air until they are quite dry.
There, now my little boys are all bathed, and are
clean and sweet."
	Lee. "Now won't you please read to us from
the Instructor mother?"
	Mother. "Yes, I can read to you while I nurse
the baby."
	Lee (handing the paper). "Please read about
Caesar and the lion."
	Mother reads, as requested, without interruption,
until she finishes the sentence, "He was descend-
ed from a noble line of ancestry"——


Lee. "What does that mean, mother?"
	Mother. "It means that his forefathers were
rich and great."
	Willie (in surprise). "Did he have four
fathers?"
	Mother (laughing). "Not four in number, Willie.
When we speak of a man's forefathers, we mean
his grandfathers and his great grandfathers and
their fathers, and so on, back through generations
that have lived before him."
	Willie. "Oh! yes; I see what you mean now!"
	Mother. "Think you can remember it?"
	Willie. "I'll try to."
	Lee. "Please read on now, mother."
	Mother. "I will finish this story, and then
baby must go in the cradle and I must go to work."
		LULA.


