	WIDEAWAKE CORRESPONDENT. 

	Miss Cleveland held her first from 3 to 4
o'clock afternoon receptions on Tuesday. These 
are perfectly informal so far as aught at the
White House can lack stateliness. One of the 
doors from the vestibule into the red corridor 
stands open, with a man in attendance. Cards
are left in the vestibule for record, and the
visitor is announced at the door of the Red
Parlor. This room with its furnishings lends
itself delightfully to cosy tete-a-tete. The
sumptuous gold and crimson upholsteries, the
glow from the open coal fire, the soft light
coming through partially drawn curtains, and
low chandeliers, with the fragrance of flowers, 
make the ensemble deliciously sensuous. Miss
Cleveland greets each comer with an easy 
grace, and with that remarkable smile extends
her hand. Her dress is of black silk, demi-
train, with berthe and panels of heavy jet pas-
sementerie, narrow frills of lace in neck and
at her hands, and at her throat a single crisp,
half-blown pink tea rose with its leaves
nestled. 
	Miss Cleveland sits down with the latest ar-
rival and, like ordinary mortals, talks about
the weather. "I make it a religious duty," 
she said, "to spend some time out of doors
every day. Yes, I ride; but after the gates
are closed, between the daylight and the dark-
ness, I take a walk about the grounds. I en-
joy deeply the beauty of the sky and the glory 
of the sunsets we have here and the views
from the windows. I enjoyed the New Year
reception very much. I like my life here, be-
cause it gives me the opportunity to meet so


many interesting people. I was a little tired
on last Friday, as we stood until a very few
minutes before the close of the reception. The
ladies would not be excused while I remained;
so, as I knew they had yet to stand several
hours at their own houses in the afternoon, I
withdrew with them at 2 o'clock. Our duties
here are those of no sinecure. The housekeep-
ing duties are exacting, and show no inclina-
tion toward a state of perfection in machinery
in which the household might run itself."
	Thus Miss Cleveland, pleasantly changing
auditors constantly and saying just the inter-
esting thing to each person. "I hope to meet
you again," to Lieutenant and Mrs. Winthrop,
who were saying good-by before leaving for
San Francisco. "The President received a
quantity of sheet music, which I have not had
time to examine. I will send it to you if you
think it would be of interest," she said to Prof.
Sousa, of the Marine Band, who called to pay
his respects.
	"I have not read the book sufficiently to
talk about its point," she said of a recent
publication, "but I think the author gets at the
hearts of the people."
	In speaking of her brother Miss Cleveland
says "The President." She introduces each
one who comes in to everybody else, and, this
hour at the White House being her own institu-
tion, is likely to prove the most charming of
Miss Cleveland's social life to all concerned.


