TO PRESERVE RECIPES.

	"What is the best way of keeping recipes so
that one does not have to hunt through masses
of newspaper clippings?" asks a correspon-
dent.
	A blank book bound in stiff boards or mus-
lin, and divided into sections, is the best and
most convenient form. An index is written
thus: "Soup," "sauces," "fish," "meat," "vege-
tables," "game," "dessert," "cakes," "bread,"
"beverages," "sundries." These main divis-
ions may be subdivided as desired. Allot a
certain number of pages to each main division,
giving the proper heading in the body of the
book. As each recipe is tried, copy it neatly
into the book under its proper heading. The
printed recipe could be pasted in the book, but
it does not look so neat as fair writing. Index
each recipe under its proper heading in the
general index, and there will be no trouble in
finding it. Under "sundries" write any practi-
cal suggestions with regard to household mat-
ters. Such a book is of the greatest assistance
to a housekeeper, for it presents in succinct
form her actual experience, and enables her to
prepare her weekly bill of fare with the great-
est ease.—Louisville Courier-Journal.


Miss Alice C. Fletcher addressed the Melrose
Women's Club, lately on the Indian question.
Miss Fletcher went among the Indians to
prosecute her archaeological studies, and re-
turns to the States fired with the same apostolic
ardor which made Helen Jackson write "Ra-
mona" and "A Century of Dishonor." Miss
Fletcher's lecture converted a good many peo-
ple to a fuller belief in the wrongs of the
Indians, and the bad faith of government
officials in their dealing with them.
	Recently a monument has been erected in
Annaberg, Saxony, to the memory of Frau
Barbara Uttman, in recognition of the great
service rendered to the working women of
Saxony more than three hundred years ago,
when great distress was prevailing on account
of lack of work. Barbara Uttman made a
journey to Brussels and learned lace-making,
making a specialty of point-lace; then return-
ing to Annaberg she instructed her fellow-
workwomen in this art, and so relieved a great
deal of suffering. The monument is a drink-
ing fountain surmounted by a statue of Mrs.
Uttman in the German dress of the middle of
the sixteenth century. This is about the first
public recognition of woman's worth that has
been made in Germany.
	A very interesting discovery has been made
in England, in the crypt of Winchester Cathe-
dral, in which excavations are being carried on
by the direction of Dr. Kitchen, the dean, to
restore the crypts to their ancient proportions
by removing modern accumulations of earth.
In a mass of masonry just under the groined
arch of the fifteen-century Lady Chapel a
leaden coffin, enclosing a wooden one, was
found, and in the latter was the skeleton of
Bishop Peter Courtenay, this fact being estab-
lished by the coat of Arms at the foot of the
cross cast on the coffin lid. This Bishop, in
the troubles of Richard the Third's reign, was
a Lancastrian and an exile with his brother in
the cause of Henry Tudor; after the battle of
Bosworth they returned, and the Bishop was
subsequently translated from Oxford to Win-
chester. He died in 1492. He gave the great
bell "Peter" to Exeter Cathedral (since recast),
and he was an ancester of the present Earl of
Devon. The restoration of the great Norman
crypts of the Cathedral is exciting great inter-
est among the antiquarians.


