WHAT NEXT?

	The facility with which the anti-"Mormon"
demagogue changes his base, and as fast as one
pretext serving him as a breast-work is torn
away, hides himself behind another, rivals the
agility of the nocturnal flea, or the fickleness
of the color-changing chameleon. Illustra-
tions are, like Falstaff's reasons, "as plenty as
blackberries," but we need not pick from the
prolific bush more than one or two at the pre-
sent time.
	How often it has been asserted, by those
honestly or dishonestly opposed to the poly-
gamic principle of our religion, that if that
one obnoxious feature were only done away
and its practice should henceforth cease, all
hostility to "Mormonism" would vanish into
thin air, the oil of peace would be poured upon
the troubled waters of political and religious
strife in Utah, and the Millennial sun would
be almost ready to dawn upon this portion of
our war-weary and benighted planet.
	That many persons are sincere in this belief,
I doubt not, any more than I do that many
others are not so. Those who really believe it
are, for the most part, well meaning but super-
ficial thinkers, who have studied carelessly or
not at all the crimson-hued history of religious
persecution, particularly those chapters—des-
tined, thank heaven! to be among the closing
ones—relating to the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	I need hardly refer in this connection, to the
unfounded charges, ridiculous as they were
numerous, preferred against the early Chris-
tains and cited by their merciless oppressors in
justification of their cruelty to that universally
despised and unpopular sect; nor give more
than a passing glimpse at the lurid scenes of
rapine and murder with which history re-
peated itself in the days of the expulsion of
the Saints from Missouri, when the pretense
put forth to palliate such horrors was not, as
some might suppose, the now terrible offense of
patriarchal marriage. No; "polygamy" was
not then the popular note to sound, the revela-
tion regarding it not having been given to the
Church. Hence, some other excuse had to be
invented, some other catch-word adopted, some
other cloak made to order to cover up the real
object of the murderous crusade against an in-
nocent people, "everywhere spoken evil of,"
whose appealed cause was admitted to be just
by the Executive of the nation, who in the
same breath acknowledged himself power-
less to interfere for their protection, or afford
for their past cruel wrongs the slightest re-
dress.
	And what, in those early days, was "Mor-
monism's" alleged offense, or more properly
speaking, the main accusation, since they have
ever been, like Abraham's posterity, innumer-
able? In brief this: that the Latter-day

[Column 2]

Saints, like the Saints of former days, claimed
to receive revelations from on High, and were
organized with Apostles and Bishops, etc., in
conformity with the ecclesiastical system of
government that prevailed in the ancient
Christian Church. These awful crimes excited
the jealous wrath of the priests of perverted
and apostate Christianity, and it was not a
difficult thing for these "holy men," who
"spake as they were moved upon" by the spirit
of Satan, to poison the minds of their pious,
flocks, and aided by scheming knaves and politi-
cal tricksters of whom little else could be ex-
pected, to create a sentiment so bitterly hostile
that nothing but the blood of innocence which
it shed could satiate it. These facts have
passed into history, not yet written in its ful-
ness, but some day to be thundered by impar-
tial justice from the house tops.
	But what do we next hear? Has the same
old pretext been used to extenuate all later
exhibitions of Christian hatred toward this
"peculiar people" since they left the confines of
civilization to build up and beautify an Eden
in the heart of the American desert? Not en-
tirely. The real cause remains, as ever, un-
changed; but the ostensible one has shifted,
veered and fluttered about like a weather-cock
in a wind storm. Polygamy, being published,
became immensely popular as a war cry, and
its imaginary horrors were sufficiently blood-
curdling, without "Apostles and Bishops," to suit
every purpose of the conspiring hypocrites
who create, in order to pander to and be paid
by, a mistaken public sentiment as wide-spread
as it is unwarrantable.
	This polygamic wire has been twanged till
it is almost ready to snap assunder from age
and prolonged use, and those whose business it
is to string the harp of slander and tune it to
the ever-varying popular pitch, have found it
necessary to look about once more for material
to meet the imminent popular demand for a
change. "Blood atonement" will hardly do,
for that has seen much service also, and like
"polygamy" is getting sadly out of tune.
There is something, however, that suits the
times "to a T," and, far from wonderful to tell,
it has already been stretched and played
upon. 
	And what is this newer bugaboo?—this Olym-
pus of popular dread—this towering mountain
of a nation's alarm that "singes its pate against
the burning zone," making the polygamic
"Ossa like a wart?" In sooth, "Church rule in
politics," an autocratic theocracy, imperium in
imperio, a "Mormon" empire in an American
republic, an "ecclesiastical right divine as
opposed to the ballots of a free people"—
and yards on yards of similar stuff, all
of which, summed up and simmered down,
might be put thus: a handful of relig-
ious worshippers, armed with implements
of labor, with their feet firmly planted on
the granite backbone of the American conti-
nent, leering down upon and threatening with
an avalanche of hymn books the peace, wel-
fare and existence of a shivering little group
of fifty-five millions of people.
	This then is the leading pretext of to-day;
the comet of ill-omen now sweeping and swish-
ing through the political heavens, with "poly-
gamy," "blood atonement" and all the other
little horrors following and serving as its tail.
But tell us, what has this new terror to stand
on? Is it utterly without foundation, like the
vast majority of its predecessors, or has it, like


some of the more notable ones, a shadow of
tangibility, which at first sight, but at first sight
only, seems almost as plausible as a skeleton's
visible, or a vagrant's imaginary means of sup-
port? Simply this and nothing more: the
"Mormons," like all true Bible believers, hold
that the God of heaven and Maker of the earth
intends ere long to pay a personal visit to this
planet, to take for a season the reins of govern-
ment into His own hands, establishing a reign
of universal peace and righteousness and re-
quiring all nations to acknowledge His sceptre.
They further believe that, as usual, He has
sent word on ahead, in order not to take the
world entirely unaware, and has commissioned
certain humble, God-fearing men to preach
the glad tidings to their fellow creatures and
prepare the way for His coming.
	This is the very head and front of "Mormon
treason, rebellion," and all the rest of the clap-
trap which continually salutes the tired eyes
and ears of a long-suffering public. It is the
government of God that these Christian priests
and politicians regard as a foreign power; it is
Jesus Christ whom they stigmatize as an inva-
der, and whose approach they are preparing to
repel with all the force and fury at their com-
mand. Who would have thought that the
parable of the Vineyard would find its applica-
tion in the nineteenth century, and "in the
land of the free and the home of the brave?"
Who would have supposed that in this profes-
sedly Christian nation, a Bible prophecy in re-
lation to the coming of the King of kings
would be used as a pretext to justify the sup-
pression of a people and religion whose only
crime is clinging to the hope of its literal ful-
filment? What next will be the scare-crow to
keep away honest investigation into the merits
of "Mormonism?" What next will afford a
temporary rampart for the conspirators who
are too cowardly to assail this much maligned
religion except from behind a barricade of
subterfuge, sophistry, misconstructions and
make-believes?
