"MORMON" WOMEN MEET, SPEAK AND RESOLVE.

	For some time past a movement has been on
foot to give the women of Utah an opportunity of
expressing in some public and emphatic manner,
their feelings regarding the indignities and the
sufferings they are made to endure in the present
crusade against the Mormon people. In the
whole history of America there cannot be found
a parallel to the infamous methods by which the
enforcement of special and oppressive legislation
against the Saints has and is sought to be accom-
plished. Not only have the men, who for
obeying a principle of their religion are declared
to be violators of law, been made to suffer the ex-
traordinary and unhallowed proceedings inaugu-
rated against them under its form and in its name;
but their wives, their children and their relatives
have been hauled before inquisitorial grand juries,
plied with shamefully indecent questions,
threatened with punishment for contempt if they
refused to answer, and in some cases actually im-
prisoned for such refusal. Defenseless women
have at the risk of their lives been dragged before
courts or juries, frequently escorted thither by
wretches whose touch they would regard as pollu-
tion. Even the sacred relation of husband and
wife and the exemption from testifying one against
the other has been trampled upon, and each day
sees new insults and greater indignities heaped
upon us.
	Under these circumstances it was natural that
a spontaneous feeling should manifest itself to
give expression to our sentiments. The culmina-
tion of this desire was found in the crowded and
enthusiastic gathering of representative women
which filled the Salt Lake Theatre, Saturday after-
noon, March the 6th. Everywhere was manifested
a deep, subdued emotion, and heartfelt sincerity
characterized every utterance. A tolerably com-
plete report of the proceedings, which we are
able to furnish, shows nothing which can be con-
strued as defiance, but everything which savors of
courage, patriotism and true womanhood.
	The 16th Ward brass band played choice selec-
tions while the people were being seated, and at the
appointed hour, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, in a few
appropriate remarks, called the meeting to order.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt nominated Mrs. M. I.
Horne to preside, and the lady received the unani-
mous endorsement of the vast assemblage.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. E. S. Taylor,
Mrs. Jane Richards, Mrs. Priscilla Staines and
Mrs. Pitchforth were unanimously elected vice-
presidents.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard was nominated for
secretary, and Miss Nellie Colebrook and Mrs.
Cornelia Clayton as assistant secretaries. These
ladies were unanimously elected.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young was elected chaplain.
	After singing by the Tabernacle choir, prayer
was offered by Mrs. Zina D. Young. Singing by
the choir.

[Column 2]

	Prest. M. I. Horne expressed the regrets of
Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith at not being able to be
present, but stated that she was heart and soul in
the movement.
	Prest. Horne said it was with feelings of sorrow
that she contemplated the occasion which called
forth the necessity for a protest against the wrongs
heaped upon "Mormon" men and women, be-
cause of their obedience to the law of God. The
nation could with more consistency legislate
against the Catholics for their belief in celibacy
than against the "Mormons" for obeying the first
great commandment, "Be fruitful and multiply."
It was a duty of the Saints to appeal to rulers, and
if disregarded God would avenge them. Presi-
dent Van Buren had told the Prophet Joseph his
cause was just, but the nation could do nothing for
his people, and the nation had been vexed ever
since. Men were now sent to jail because they
would not promise to renounce their wives and
children, and the women of the Latter-day Saints
could not longer submit in peace to this, and to
the insults offered their sisters in the courts. They
could not longer go on without protesting against
continued adverse legislation. They could not
come down to the level of those who degraded
women, but would continue in the service of God,
and trust in Him.
	The following committee on resolutions was ap-
pointed on motion of Dr. R. B. Pratt: Dr. R. B.
Pratt, Mrs. Fanny Thatcher, Mrs. Edna Smith, of
Salt Lake City, Mrs. J. Tanner, of Provo, and
Mrs. H. C. Brown, of Ogden.
	MRS. PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL
was called and spoke as follows:
MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:
	I stand before you a native born citizen of the
United States. My grandfather fought in the
revolutionary war to establish a free government
on this continent, and my father fought in the
war of 1812 to secure and perpetuate a free gov-
ernment and to protect the rights and liberties of
the citizens of the republic. I, their descendant,
now stand up before this assembly to protest
against the oppression of those who would take
rom us the rights and liberties which our fathers
risked their lives to obtain. What would our
fathers say, the founders of this republic, if they
could rise from their graves and see the glorious
Constitution which they framed and bequeathed
to all future generations, as the palladium of liber-
ty, overridden and downtrodden by demagogues
and torn to fragments by the schemes of corrupt
men, whose object is to oppress and injure the
helpless. 
	We came out from the United States to this
desert and mountainous country, that we might
worship God according to the dictates of our con-
sciences.
	We had broken no laws of God or man. We
had committed no crimes, but we were driven
from our homes by angry mobs because we de-
sired to worship God in the way that had been re-
vealed to us. We made our homes in these
mountains and have lived here loyal and law-abid-
ing citizens. 
	Now, nearly at the close of the nineteenth cen-
tury we find the horrors of the inquisition revived
from our destruction—free-born, pure-minded, and
delicate women are brought before a cruel and
corrupt court, by lewd and debauched deputies;
insulted and brow-beaten by base and malicious
officials, and if in obedience to their pure and
noble womanhood, they refuse to answer the in-
decent questions, they are threatened with im-
prisoument in the Utah Penitentiary, where mur-
derers and horse thieves are incarcerated, there to
pay the penalty of contempt of court.
	Oh, liberty and justice, where is their dwelling
place!
	I feel it is time for the ladies of Zion to arise.

[Column 3]

Our cause is just. We have broken no law of
God or man, but we know by exporience what the
present crusade means. We will be true to God
and live lives of purity. 
	Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton read the following
address by
	MRS. H. C. BROWN.
DEAR FRIENDS:
	We have met to-day to unite our voices in pro-
testing against the cruel enforcement of special
legislative enactments brought to bear upon us as a
people, and we appeal to every honest mind and
heart to use their influence to stay the shameful
proceedings by which pretended courts of justice
are converted into courts of inquisition. That
honest, virtuous, Christian women may no longer
be subjected to insult and abuse, nor have every
feeling of parental and conjugal love, and every
sense of religious duty, outraged and trampled
upon.
	We are here, not as Latter-day Saints, but as
American citizens—members of that great com-
mon wealth which our noble grandsires fought and
bled to establish—legal heirs to those rights and
privileges bequeathed by that heaven-inspired
document—the Constitution of these United
States. Yes, legal heirs, yet illegally, unconstitu-
tionally deprived of that dearest, most cherished
of all rights—freedom to worship God according
to the dictates of our own consciences.
	And this within the limits of a government
founded upod religious liberty. This in a nation
whose legislators point proudly to the brave Pil-
grim Fathers and mothers as their ancestors—
and then turn to crush their fellow creatures—de-
scendents of the same noble parentage.
	O consistency, where art thou fled? O Justice,
surely thy face must hide itself in shame, when
loyal men and women are denied the right of
citizenship, because, forsooth, they . would serve
God and fear Him rather than man. 
	Once again, we protest against the unjust de-
signs and unlawful enactments of unscrupulous
men, blinded by selfish ambition to all the best in-
terests of our government as well as to their own
eternal welfare.
	And we would say to them and to the world—
that, rather than forego one principle of our holy
religion—rather than yield the right to act upon
our own convictions of duty, we would, if need
be, endure exile or imprisonment, or whatever
our Heavenly Father may see fit in His wisdom to
require of us; and, like the Saints of former days,
suffer rather than accept deliverance, that we may
inherit a more exceeding and eternal weight of
glory.
	   DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON
said the wrongs against which those assembled
now protested were such as would have put to
blush the civilization of two centuries ago. While
the statue of liberty was being erected women
were here sent to jail for no crime, and the purest
and best women in the country now raised their
voice against the outrage. Sixteen years ago the
women of Utah were granted the right of suffrage,
and it was whispered that they would break the
bands which were supposed to bind them. The
women of Utah had proven true and had never
cast an unrighteous ballot. They voted for men
who were pure, honorable and upright. The gov-
ernment now seemed to think it premature that
the women were allowed to vote, and were en-
deavoring to deprive them of that right, not be-
cause they had committed crime, but because they
believed in the revelations of God. It was urged
that the women in Utah were coerced. No mem-
ber of Congress would dare witness what was here 
to-day and reiterate such a falsehood. "Priestly
dictation" was prated about, but nothing was said
of the Catholics, who voted as their priest directed.
This was the battle-field between truth and error.


[Column 1]
The Saints were loyal citizens,  industrious and
honest, but they were being oppressed because
they belonged to an unpopular class. The Presi-
dent of the United States asked for fairness for
the Chinese, but had never asked justice fo r the
"Mormons." Under the nation's law, the seducer
and destroyer had no fear of a deputy, as "birds
of a feather flocked together." But honorable
"Mormons" were dogged and watched by "spot-
ters," and these acts were approved by Americans.
She had felt that America was an asylum for all
—but the "Mormons." They were to-day in the
same position as the American patriots 126 years 
ago. England oppressed the patriots, and refused
redress; they took their liberty by force of arms.
Their descendents are now the oppressors, and
the "Mormons" the oppressed. And now these
chains of tyranny were to be welded closer by
taking from the women of Utah, the ballot, which
they had never used but in the promotion of
honor, virtue, and good to all. May the day never
come when they will be deprived of the ballot.
The nation should call a halt and remember vox
populi, vox Dei. There will come a day when
those engaged in this crusade will bitterly repent
their treatment of the "Mormons," which is un-
justifiable. The "Mormons," would adhere to
their religion, which was from God. Test oaths
would not move them. The enemies of "Mor-
monism" desired to sweep it from the face of the
earth; but the work was God's, and they could
not do it. 
	The committee on resolutions reported the fol-
lowing, which were unanimously adopted:

