MON" MOTHERS.

	In a recent interview Mrs. Belva A. Lock-
wood, who is described as the "Queen of the
American Bar," is reported as saying some
good words for the much-abused "Mormons."
After relating how she came to be nominated
by the woman's rights people for the Presiden-
cy, she was asked concerning certain utterances
attributed to her by the Salt Lake Tribune,
which the lady denied, but went on to make
remarks which are reported as follows:

	"I have no objections to saying now that I

[Column 2]

do think that, as a rule, the Mormons are
ahead of the Gentiles in morals. In the first
place, a good Mormon does not drink, smoke,
chew, nor even use coffee and tea, nor frequent
saloons or other vile resorts." As to the Mor-
mon women, Mrs. Lockwood sturdily main-
tained that they are fully up to the standard
of intelligence and progressiveness; that each
is the head of her own house, governs her own
children, and is far more independent of men
than the Gentile women. Her opinion of the
Edmunds bill was asked. "I think it unjust
and revolutionary in the extreme," was the an-
swer. "Do not misunderstand me. I am a
thorough monogamist by education and belief,
and I think it must require a strong conviction
of religious duty on the part of any woman to
submit to the polygamous relation. But I do
not recognize the right of our government,
after allowing the system thirty-five years' ex-
istence, and permitting George Q. Cannon to
sit in Congress for years, to now threaten to
disfranchise both men and women, and confis-
cate their property, if they will not renounce
the relations of a lifetime which they conscien-
tiously believe to be an essential part of their
religious system. I believe in the suppression
of polygamy by law, but not through means
which are retroactive and subversive of Ameri-
can liberty."
	"Mrs. Lockwood struck at another of the
theories of the anti-Mormons, in saying that
the Mormons' children were the most beauti-
ful she had ever seen, and bright as a dollar.
"Every Mormon child is made welcome when
it enters the world; and as the Mormon
mother is taught that her rank in heaven will
depend on the number and quality of the
children she rears in this life, a perfect mother-
hood is developed. "I believe in criticising
and fighting polygamy on a true indictment,"
said the lady, "but the false tales that are cir-
culated around the country under the head of
'The Mormon Horror,' etc., are detestably
unfair."
	Mrs. Lockwood, like many other folks, is
somewhat mistaken about the "Mormon"
mothers being taught that "their rank in hea-
ven will depend upon the number and quality
of the children they rear in this life," but she
is right in the statement that children are "wel-
come" to the "Mormons," and are not des-
troyed, either before or after birth, by the mur-
derous methods that are common among very
pious women who figure in the anti-"Mormon"
movement, and who have no idea of the mar-
riage relation above lust without the responsi-
bilities that belong to true wifehood and
maternity. Mrs. Lockwood is a woman of
moral courage as well as great legal ability,
and is not afraid to say what she thinks to any-
one.
	Children well trained in the fear of God
and the practice of virtue, are an honor to
their mothers in this world, and will shine as
jewels in their crown and add much to their
glory, happiness and exaltation in the eternal
world, where all will be valued for what they
are, and shine with their own excellence or be
dimmed with their own shame.


