BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	I had known very little of Frances Swan
previous to our coming to Winter Quarters. I
had met her at the house of Sister Silvie Lyons,
when she made her home in Nauvoo, and un-
derstood her to be my father's wife. Through
report, some of our family had formed rather
an unfavorable opinion of her, but knew noth-
ing against her. She had borne father one
child, which died, I believe, before leaving
Nauvoo.
	Our intimate acquaintance began after the
pioneers had left. She was then living with
Sisters Presendia and Laura Kimball, and was
in the enjoyment of her religion, and the love
of God reigned in our midst to that extent
that it brought love and charity for one an-
other, and drove away every ill feeling that
had previously had place in our hearts, prov-
ing beyond doubt that we had found the true
path, and the only one that will take us into
the celestial kingdom.
	Frances had been educated in Scotland, and
was a women of no ordinary talent. She was
capable of doing a great amount of good, but
when out from under the influence of the good
spirit, she was subject to the greatest tempta-
tions, and at times the powers of darkness
seemed to have perfect control over her, which
made her society anything but desirable. We
understand that the greater light one receives,
the greater are the temptations afterwards,

[Column 2]

and the more liable one is to fall away, and
this was the fate of Frances.
	She was warned of it in dreams, and after
coming to the valley she had the following one,
which she told to members of the family, at
which time she professed to be strong in the
faith:
	She dreamed that she was walking with
father's wives, my mother leading the way, up
a steep mountain, till they came to a narrow
place like a tunnel, which looked impossible
for any one to go through, but she said they
all went through but herself, and she refused,
saying, "I had rather go round, if it is farther,
than to go through that place," although
mother plead with her, reaching out her hands,
as she besought her to come, as that was the
only way, and she was distressed at the thought
of leaving her there alone. She also assured
her of their safety, and how glad they were
that they had passed through; "though," said
she, "it crushed me till I could hear my bones
snap; but you are smaller, Frances, and it
could not hurt you as it did me." But it was
all to no avail; she lacked the faith and hu-
mility necessary to endure what the Saints of
God are required to to make them fit for the
kingdom of heaven. A few years from that
date saw her in California, the wife of a man
younger than herself, one whom she had known
in Nauvoo previous to becoming my father's
wife. It was quite a surprise to her ac-
quaintances at Salt Lake, that she should have
taken up with the man she had once con-
sidered so inferior to the one whom she had
chosen to be her leader through time and all
eternity. I know that during her sojourn with
his family he sought her welfare and
happiness, in connection with all the rest, as
faithfully as a man could do. When she
would be laboring under temptation, he would
talk and reason with her like a kind, consider-
ate father, as he was, and this is the course he
took with his numerous family, and which he
was noted for among those who knew him best,
until his manifold cares and responsibilities,
increasing with his years, and the increasing
toil and anxiety for the welfare of this people,
in connection with his brethren, left him little
time to listen, or to make a balm to heal every
wound, real or fancied, or to untie every knot-
ty question that could better have been done
by those who were most concerned.


[Column 1]

