NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Anthony estimates that twenty-six
members of the U. S. Senate are in favor of
woman suffrage.
	Miss Louisa Alcott has had her features per-
petuated in a fine profile bas-relief in bronze
by M. W. Rickertson, of Boston.
	Miss Ada C. Sweet made a witty speech in
behalf of old maids before the Sorosis Club
the other day. The Chicago Inter-Ocean says,
"If all 'old maids' were like Miss Sweet they
would need no defense."
	A statue of Queen Victoria, by the Princess
Louise, has been placed in the front of Lich-
field Cathedral. Her son, the Duke of Edin-
burgh, recently gave a violin performance at
a public concert in London.
	The fate of successful patent medicine men
is not always happy. Ayer and Helmbold be-
came insane, and now we hear that Perry
Davis, of "Pain Killer" fame, is a lunatic in a
Philadelphia almshouse.—Medical Record.
	Miss Clara Louise Kellogg recently visited
her birthplace, the town of Sumter, S. C., and 
gave a concert there. On the arrival of the
cars the members of her company arose in
their seats and disembarked, singing "Home

[Column 2]

Again," in compliment to the birthplace of
Miss Kellogg.
	Governor Seymour's aversion to display ex-
tended to the erection of showy monuments.
Acting in accord with his views, he selected
and paid for his monument some ten years ago.
It lies where he found it, in the town of Rem-
sen, Oneida County, and consists of a boulder
of native granite, 5 1/2 feet long, 2 feet wide, and
1 1/4 feet thick.
	Mrs. Evelyn T. Underhill, of New York
City, lately received an imperative summons
to report herself for jury duty, or show cause
why she should be exempt. Mrs. Underhill
replied that she knew of no reason why she
should be exempt, and was entirely willing to
serve. Whereupon the Portland Argus says
"How unlike a man!"
	Mme. Patti had a curious experience recent-
ly of the enthusiasm of Roumanian women.
She had just finished one of her most effective
arias in the opera house of Bucharest, when a
number of women suddenly rose to their feet
and threw white pigeons with ribbons on their
necks upon the stage, until the singer was sur-
rounded by the fluttering birds.
	In accordance with a resolution of the
American Woman Suffrage Association, adopt-
ed at its last annual meeting, to co-operate
with the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion in the effort to secure a sixteenth amend-
ment, a memorial to Congress, signed by the
officers of the American Association, asking
for a Constitutional amendment forbidding dis-
franchisement on account of sex, was forwarded
this week to Senator George F. Hoar.
	Senator Edmunds has introduced a new
Mormon bill. With all the terrible sufferings
of his people close at hand, he can see no
service for humanity nearer than Utah! This
bill repeals woman suffrage. Thus, in a state
of society claimed to be specially hostile to
woman, he robs her of her best weapon of de-
fense, the ballot. The bill declares that
children born of other than the lawful wife
shall not inherit their father's property. This
is devilish, and when we say it we want to ask
old Nick's pardon. It outrages humanity and
justice. What can be more mean and cruel
than to cast a stigma upon an innocent child
and debar it the rights of inheritance. For
shame, Senator Edmunds, to turn your back
thus upon the progress of your age. You
seek to right one wrong by the commission of
another far more atrocious and far-reaching
than the plural marriage of Utah—the degrada-
tion of woman and the stamping of the brand
of disgrace and poverty upon innocent child-
hood!—Our Country, Dec. 28, 1885.
	The passage of the Edmunds bill, to destroy
the Mormon church, by a vote of 38 to 7 is
one of the most disgraceful acts of American
legislation.
	That bill abolishes woman suffrage, denies
the rights of inheritance to innocent children
and appoints trustees to seize the estates of the
churches. It is the offspring of avarice, bigotry
and lust aiming to remove all the safeguards
of law, that they may prey upon the lands,
property and women of a defenseless people.
	The border influence, which gets up Indian
wars that it may thrive on plunder is behind
this bill. A few senile and bloodless bigots
who love persecution, really believe in it.
Most, however, who voted for it were driven
by the terrorism skillfully managed by Ed-
munds. They were afraid to be called Mor-
mons if they did not vote down liberty under
the pretext of extirpating polygamy. The
same class would seize the property of Cath-
olics to-morrow and turn the Sisters of Charity
over to the mob, if they dared!—Our Country,
Jan. 16, 1886.


