HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A square sofa pillow of black satin is effective, powdered
with white daisies wrought in filo floss. Finish the edge of
the cushion with large yellow beads, and decorate one
corner with a large yellow satin bow.
	Sew a coarse flannel over the bowl of a broken goblet.
Wet the flannel, and sprinkle it with as much flax seed, or
canary seed, as will stick. Set this in a glass dish of water
in a warm room. As the water soaks into the flannel, add
more. In two weeks you will have a most beautiful center
ornament for the table.
	Pears.—Small pears, which show no tendency to ripen,
may be converted into a delicious dessert dish for winter
months by stewing them for an hour or two, according to
their size, in syrup flavored with cloves and cinnamon.
The syrup is made of three pounds of sugar to a pint and
a half of water. The pears must be peeled and left whole,
and there should be hardly sufficient syrup to cover them,
as the juice from the pears will add to the syrup. Let them
boil quickly, and cover the jars well from the air.
	It is almost impossible to prevent a little shrinkage of
flannels in washing, unless the articles are dried on forms.
Prepare hot suds before hand, and agitate the articles in it
without rubbing; then squeeze, not wring out, and dry
quickly. The patent clothes-wringers are an improvement
upon hand-labor, as, without injury to the fabric, they
squeeze out the water so thoroughly that the article dries
in considerably less time than it would do after the mos
thorough hand-wringing.
	Madeira Cake.—Mix three heaped teaspoonfuls of
baking-powder in one pound of fine flour, rub in a quarter
of a pound of butter or lard; mix in a quarter of a pound
of castor sugar, a little ground carraway seed, cinnamon,
grated lemon-peel, or any flavor preferred, and, if liked,
add some chopped currants. When ready to bake, stir in
as quickly as possible two well-beaten eggs mixed with a
half a pint of milk; put into buttered tins and bake in a
hot oven. This ought to make four cakes about the size of
shilling pound-cakes.
	To Preserve Fruit and Flowers.—Fruit and flowers may
be preserved from decay and fading by immersing them in
a solution of gum arabic water two or three times, waiting
a sufficient time between each insertion to allow the gum to
dry. By this process the surface of the fruit is covered
with a thin coat of gum, which in entirely impervious to
the air, and thus prevents the decay of the fruit ro the
withering of the flowers. Roses thus preserved have all
the beauty of freshly plucked ones, though they had been
plucked several months. It is reliable, and something all
may try.
	Test for Alum in Bread.—The best rough test for alum
in bread is the logwood test. The process, as applied to
bread is very simple. The tincture of logwood and solu-
tion of carbonate of ammonia are used. A teaspoonful of
each is mixed with a wineglassful of water, and in this a
piece of the crumb of bread is soaked for about five


minutes. The bread is then removed and dried at a gentle
heat. If no alum be present, the bread dries to a dirty
brown color; if a little be present, the bread dries to at
lavendar color; if much alum be present, the bread dries to
a dark-blue color.
	Plum-Pudding.—The one secret of plum-pudding is
known to few—it is long boiling. If plum-pudding is half
boiled and allowed to get cold, no amount of after-boiling
can repair the damage; it will remain sodden and unwhole-
some to the end. When well boiled at first, it can be
made hot through, and be as good as ever. For a small
pudding, nine or ten hours', for a large one, twelve or
fourteen hours', fast boiling, without stopping, will ensure a
good pudding, even with no very rich materials. Without
this precaution, one made of the best materials will prove
a failure.


