DON'T WORRY.

	"She has always magnified little troubles,"
was said of one suffering the torments of acute
melancholia. What a warning in those few
words, emphasized by looking into the wretched,
worn and weary face of her who had once been
called "the prettiest girl in town."
	She magnified little troubles! What serious
troubles they have at last become, threatening
reason if not life itself! Her sickness, like
that of many another sufferer, is cumulative
and largely self-imposed. She began life by
taking deeply to heart every little vexatious
thing, allowing disappointments, even in trifles,
to sadden and depress her, giving way to "the
blues" and fretting over the veriest nothings,
until in the course of the fast-flying years they
have piled themselves into a huge mountain
of difficulties which rest an immovable load
upon her own heart.
	Socrates said how truly, that we each carry
about a daemon, and the Scriptural record of
demoniacal possession is no fable. How do we
live with our daemon, that is the question. Is
it our "divinity" or our "evil spirit?" Do we
assert our intelligence and hold him to his
place of service, controlling ourselves even
when harassed almost beyond endurance; or
do we yield to each petty trial and annoyance,
fret over every insignificant trifle, and worry
until the habit becomes a second nature?

"This way madness lies."

	Think of it at every fretful, discontented
word. Think of it when you feel worried, and
shrink from forming the habit as from contact
with a deadly serpent. Cultivate the grace of
taking life easy. "To bear is to conquer our
fate." We have but a day to live at a time.
Who cannot easily be gracious and forbear-
ing and gentle for a single day. At least we
can live uncomplainingly. The Mexican
mother whispers over the cradle of her new
born babe, "Child, thou art born to suffer, en-
dure and hold thy peace."
	If we take life in tragic seriousness, magnify-
ing the little troubles, how hard and unbeauti-
ful, and oftentimes bitter we make it for our-
selves and others; but if on the contrary we
bring to each day's experience a determination
to be serene, to be cheerful and courageous, to
be self-forgetting and helpful to others, life be-


comes a beautiful blessing to us and all men,
for "a merry heart doeth good like a medicine,
but grief drieth the bones."


