				LAND.” 

	Almost every passing day brings to our ears
some fresh recital of blood and crime, which
fills us with sickening horror. Every year
adds hundreds to the list of Cains, accursed
of God and abhorred of men.
	No man can say he is safe from the ball
and steel of the assassin, and neither matron
nor maid can divine how soon she may fall a
victim to redhanded violence. Even the
infant in its cradle is not exempt from this
terrible doom.
	Our criminal cells are full of felons; the
sword of justice hurries hundreds uncalled
into eternity; and still the awful cry ascends
that earth is reeking with the blood of her
children, which blood cries out for redress.
	Whence comes this demon of ferocity and
disregard of the sacred rights of human
life? Why is the fair page in the history
of human life thus foully blotted? Who are
responsible for the fierce and sanguinary
impulses which prompt one frail mortal to
take the life of another?
	Oh, woman! Oh mothers! when you see
a darkbrowed, bloodstained criminal led
forth to answer the question addressed to
Cain—“Where is thy brother?” does relent-
less conscience accuse you of attempting
to take that man’s life before he saw the
light of day? Did you meditate release
from the restraint of his presence by raising
your hand against the life of the helpless
being whose only safeguard against your
cruelty, was the care of Him who forgets
not the least of His creatures?
	If so, then, mother, hide your face in
shame and wring your hands in despair; for
at your door, that responsibility lies. You
have deliberately given your child over to
perdition. You have steeped his soul in
crime and violence, and planted in him the
deadly seeds of rashness. Your dark and
criminal meditations, even if they never
assumed the magnitude of actual attempts,
have been impressed upon his plastic mind
and have given form to the motive powers
which govern his walk in life; and tears of
efface shed by you in after years, could not
blood, their blighting influence.
	When the man is born into the world,
you have no more power to shape his origi-
inal disposition; you may, indeed, with
much watchfulness and care, cultivate and
modify his character, but the leading traits
will ever remain to bless or curse the world
and himself.
	Oh, woman! though so frail in body
and seeming, how mighty! how lasting! is
your influence! Peeress, almost of God
Himself in shaping the destinies of this
world, through the dispositions you implant
in the children of men, think not your
sphere is narrow nor your influence unfelt.
	You may through prayer and watchful-
ness and strong determination, give your
child a soul and system unmarred by one
motive to crime, firm in integrity, upright
in every thought and deed, a blessing to his
kindred, his country and even the age which
gave him birth; or you may indulge in dark
thoughts and evil motives, fully assured
that, since from a child which is yet part of
yourself you can keep no secrets, every dark
design and crooked purpose will be mirrored
in thesensitive organization of the little
one, to bear bitter fruit in the years to come,
when your influence will be utterly unfelt,
or the grave separates you from him, leav-
ing him entirely at the mercy of his own
hateful passions.
	Then, mothers, pause and consider, for
one moment, the magnitude of the power
[new column]
and responsibility resting upon you. Re-
member, each one, you are arbitress of the
destiny of an immortal being; and try by
every means in your power to plant germs of
integrity and purity, instead of death and
destruction. Cultivate your own mind and
heart in the knowledge and admiration of
all things lovely and of good report, that
the blessing may descend to those you leave
behind you.
	Never even contemplate the possibility of
yielding your consent to a wrong, no matter
how small, if you would have your child
lead a blameless life; but above all things,
never, NEVER think of freeing yourself from
the incumbrance of an expected child; for
if you succeed your hands are stained with
innocent blood; and if you fail, your child
may grow up with dwarfed soul and
deformed principles, to be a source of an-
guish and despair to all who love him, and,
in a moment of madness, he may lift his
hand against the life of a fellow-creature;
thus adding one more horror to the blood-
curdling cry of “Murder!!”
							L. L. D.
Beaver, April 4th, 1873.


