THE SEX.
				—
	Mrs. Merriman Loyson, in addition to
her $75,000 and accomplishments, is a
painter and sculptor.
	Queen Isabella weighs about two hun-
dred pounds, and is the jolliest old ex-Queen
who ever saved her head.
	A Young Irish girl in Jacksonville, Ill.,
has refused $100 for her hair. It reaches
the floor when she stands erect.
	Mrs. Anna A. Pomeroy, former wife of
“Brick” Pomeroy, of La Crosse, has married
James H. Reed, of Fulton, Illinois.
	Miss Julia Seeley, daughter of the old
postmaster, has been nominated by the
President for postmaster, at Great Barring-
ton.
	The widow of the late Secretary Stanton
is residing at German town, near Philadel-
phia and is said to be in rapidly declining
health.
	Lady Otway, widow of the late colonel of
the Eighty-fourth British regiment, who
died recently, was a lineal descendant of
Edward III.
	A BRILLIANT belle may make a loving
wife, but you will be far more apt to find
the virtues of a perfect woman in retiring
modesty.
	Report of a Kentucky wedding—“The
bride wasn’t remarkably handsome, but her
father threw in seven mules, and the hus-
band was satisfied.”
	Many old women in New Hampshire
wear strings of beans around their necks
to keep off the rheumatism, and the charm
is said to work splendidly.
	Mary Warren, of Madison, Wisconsin,
has eight fingers on each hand. May the
Lord pity her husband when she has one,
when she begins to gridiron his face. 
	The ocean cable announces the death of
Countess Guiccioli, an Italian woman of
world-wide notoriety as the mistress of
Byron. She died at Rome.
	Miss Emily L. Wyman has returned from
her Art pilgrimage in Europe bringing,
among her treasures, exquisite copies of
several of Turner’s masterpieces executed
by herself.
	Mrs. Alice C. Clymor, the favorite niece
and principal, legatee of the Carey sisters;
died, recently at Jacksonville, Florida. She
was one of the last surviving members of
the family.
	A La Crosse, Wis., girl has been turned
out of house and home for rubbing her
cheeks against her sister’s husband’s beard
when she wished to get up a healthful glow
for a ball.
	A woman in destitute circumstances in
Indiana, cut off her hair, the other day,
and sold it to a charitable lady, who gave
her seventy-seven cents for it to buy food
for her children.
	The lady teachers of the Detroit public
school have issued an admirably written
address to the tax-payers of that city, ask-
ing for an increase of their salaries, which
are now shamefully inadequate. 
	The Art Schools of the National Acad-
emy admit pupils without regard to sex or
color, granting every student access to all
its advantages. The excellence of these
schools is of a very high order.


