 	SPLINTERS.
				     —	
	George Francis Train protested against
the attempt to place him in better quarters
than those he previously occupied in the
Tombs......It is estimated by eminent phy-
sicians that nearly one-third of the luxuries,
under the name of “ice cream,” manufac-
tured in France, is composed of poisonous
substances......“Elm Orlou” thinks it un-
generous for “the fellow” to be blamed with
every silly thing said that every one else is
ashamed of, by every bodys saying “as the
fellow said.”......Edward Eggleston, once
“Reverend Divine,” writes novels now......
Church singing in Santo Domingo, a writer
pronounces good in no way but the zest
with which it is participated in......Eighty-
five young doctors lately graduated at Ann
Arbor, Michigan; and twelve of them were
women......Maria Hawley, of the “Balance,”
Chicago, thinks though it is more unlawful
it is not more unrighteous for robbers to
take wealth at midnight, than for wealthy
people to take the labor of others at unfair
prices, which is a good and just thought......
Two lady deacons officiate in the Clinton
Avenue Congressional Church, Brooklyn......
A machine for making French lace, contain-
ing one hundred bobbins, has been invented
by a lady at Cedar Falls, Iowa......Ladies are
to be admitted to the Boston University
upon the same condition as gentlemen......
Grace Greenwood lectures on “In-doors.”....
A Boston mother complains of a lecturer
who talks only to the boys, while her poor
children, being girls, are not addressed......
Charlotte A. Barber soon begins a lecture
tour in Michigan......A lady writer says
“sin is so convenient, man wants to keep it;”
it is a great pity that once in a while, woman
interferes with his wants......The Board of
Education in Yorkshire, England, has as
coadjutors, a Lady’s Honorary Council, to
aid, by practical work and suggestion, the
better education of women.......General J.
W. S. Browne, one of the founders of the
Cincinnati “Commercial,” lately died at
Memphis......A petition for the repeal of
the social evil-law of St Louis, has been
presented to the Legislature of Missouri, and
is reported to have been signed by over
7,000 women......The Arkansas House of
Representatives has passed a bill, fixing the
pay of teachers at the same amount, without
regard to sex......Columbia, Maine, has F. C. &
C. H. Nash, husband and wife, for a law firm.....
The Bloomfield, Missouri “Republican,”
is to be managed hereafter by a woman,
Mrs. Sarah E. White......It is announced
that Joaquin Miller is writing “By the Sun-
down Seas.”......There is to be a “Woman’s
Journal,” published in Washington......Miss
Smiley, the preacher, is said to be a small
woman with wonderfully beautiful, expres-
sive eyes......The Emperor William of Ger-
many has conferred the Cross of Honor upon
Mary Von Olnhousen, of Lexington, as a
recognition of her services as nurse in the
German hospitals during the war with
France......April storms, this year, in Ne-
braska, were the most severe ever witnessed
there at any season of the year......Woman
Suffragists are rapidly increasing; many
who cared nothing about it a year ago begin
to clamor loudly.....Liquor laws are exten-
sively talked of; may the right ones be
rigidly enforced......Billerica, Massachusetts,
was honored the other Sunday by having
the minister's daughter to conduct the
church services, her father being unable to
attend......Beecher says it should not only
be the privilege of every woman to vote
but her duty as well......Royalston, Massa-
chusetts, Superintendent of Common Schools
[new column]
is a woman......The Pope praises the pro-
tection that Catholics enjoy in the Burmese
Empire......A young lady in Ohio recently
fell dead while on her way to be baptised.
......A half dozen new papers have lately been
started in Paraguay......The Duchess of In-
verness, wife of the late Duke of Sussex and
aunt to Queen Victoria, is pronounced in a
serious state......A rascal in Lowell, Massa-
chusetts, knocked a gentleman in the head
with a bludgeon the other night, and rob-
bed him of thirty-five dollars; the gentle-
man proved to be his father......Miss Ann
Wallace, a lineal descendant of Sir William
Wallace, recently died at Glasgow, at the
age of one hundred and three years......
It is again reported that Maria Alexand-
rovna, only daughter of the Czar, is to
marry the Duke of Edinburg......Turkish
Journals state that Halim Pacha, uncle of
the Egyptian Khedive, has been appointed
Ambassador at St. Petersburg......A Mrs.
Hutchins, in Maine, is eighty-seven years
old, has forty-seven grand-children and has
never yet seen a steamboat or a railroad car.
......A Boston bakery is said to have been
set on fire by some piping-hot Graham
crackers......A gentleman in the same city
keeps the small-pox hospital plentifully
supplied with flowers; this should be the
work of a gentle woman......The people in
a Florida town don’t like the arrangements
of keeping pigs in the cellar beneath the
church, because they sqeal during service.
......A young lady in Minneapolis lately
fell so desperately in love that, her affec-
tions being unrequited, it dethroned her
reason and drove her to the insane asylum.
......A woman in Fairfield County, Conn.,
only thirty-two years of age, has three
grand-children.


