MORAL TRAINING IN SCHOOLS.
		OPENING ADDRESS
By Superintendent R.L. Campbell, before the Utah
	Territorial Teachers’ Association, in the Deseret
	University, April 3, 1873.
	I take pleasure in congratulating the
Teachers and friends of education in Utah
on having the happy privilege of meeting
together, under such favorable auspices.
Can we contemplate a meeting the objects
of which are more important to the rising
generation? Shall good grow out of our
thus assembling? I answer, assuredly, if
we have met with single hearts, devoid of
every selfish or otherwise wrong feeling
and devoted to the cause we represent.
	Do we understand how much depends on
the course we pursue—upon how faithfully,
how wisely, how unitedly we act? If we
can answer affirmatively, and our actions
are in accordance therewith, success will
crown our efforts. Perhaps there is no asso-
ciation the meeting of which is more needed,
more timely or more important than this.
To be sure, we do not claim to be laboring at
the top of the tree, but amongst the roots.
[new column]
We are helping to lay the foundations of
society; and that our work be well done is
a primary matter.
	There is one object that has been impres-
sed on my mind lately, and to which I
respectfully call your attention, and that is
the subject of religious and moral training
in our schools. I would ask, can any system
of education be acceptable to this people,
that ignores religion or morality, or that
dwarfs these essential elements? Our
schools should be opened by prayer to God.
We were all born in lands favored with the
Bible, we have been taught from our infancy
that “the fear of the Lord is the beginning
of wisdom,” and shall our common schools
be the first to ignore this sentiment?
	To reverence the Supreme Being should
be one of the first lessons imparted by the
parent to the child. The precept of the
parent should be perpetuated and indorsed
by the teacher, that the educational founda-
tion may be laid aright. Man’s nature is
complex. That man has a religious nature
is illustrated by the fact that where the
true religion does not exist humanity will
be found bowing to idols. Man has an in-
tellectual, a physical and a moral nature.
	Are we not apt to narrow in our educa-
tional ideas, and to give undue weight to
intellectual culture? Cultivate the intellect
and neglect the heart and you may usher
into the world an intellectual monster. As
has been frequently observed, some of the
greatest scourges of our race have been men
of powerful and cultivated intellects. That
“knowledge is power” none will gainsay, and
that it is equally potent for evil as for good
all will readily admit. Where the intellectual
qualities have been cultivated but to enable a
mortal to inflict misery upon his fellows,
ignorance would Indeed have been bliss.
Any educational system that fails to give
due prominence to religious and moral
training is defective. Education has been
defined to proper training of the “whole
man.” If he were endowed with a physical
nature only, all he would need would be
physical training. On the other hand if he
were a purely intellectual being, Intellectual
culture would comprehend all that could be
included in a perfect education.
	It has been truthfully said that “the ex-
altation of talent, as it is called, above virtue
and religion, is the curse of the age.
Education is now chiefly a stimulus to learn-
ing, and thus men acquire power without
the principles which alone make it good.
Talent is worshiped; but if divorced from
rectitude, it will prove more of a demon
[-]han a god.”
	Education essays to elevate the child to
an honorable position in society, to assist in
making him a competent, intelligent and
virtuous citizen, a good patriot. If this be
the aim, it is palpable that too little stress
is often laid upon the moral and religious
training of our youth. It is patent to us all
that man is susceptible of fervent and per-
manent religious feelings. The child is in-
fluenced by hope and fear and early can be
made to judge of that which leads to do evil
and that which leads to do good. That he
has a conscience—a heart susceptible of
cultivation, is soon apparent. This leads us to
the conclusion that religious training should
be a part of his education. “Train up a
child in the way he should go and when he
is old he will not depart from it.” This is
the counsel of the Almighty. Can webet-
ter it?
	Dr. Humphrey has well said:—“A more
Utopian dream never visited the brain of a
sensible man than that which promises to
usher in a now golden age by the diffusion
and thoroughness of what is commonly
[new column]
understood by popular education. With all
its funds, and improved school-houses, and
able teachers, and grammars, and maps,
and black-boards, such an education is
essentially defective. Without moral prin-
ciple at bottom to guide and control its
energies, education is a sharp sword in the
hands of a practiced and reckless fencer. I
have no hesitation in saying, that if we
could have but one, moral and religious
culture is even more important than a
knowledge of letters; and that the former
can not be excluded from any system of
popular education without infinite hazard.
Happily, the two are so far from being
hostile powers in the common domain,
that they are natural allies, moving on
harmoniously in the same right line, and
mutually strengthening each other. The
more virtue you can infuse into the hearts
of your pupils, the better they will improve
their time, and the more rapid will be their
proficiency in their common studies. The
most successful teachers have found the
half hour devoted to moral and religious
instruction more profitable to the scholar
than any other half hour in the day, and
there are no teachers who govern their
schools with so much ease as this class.
Though punishment is sometimes necessary
where moral influence has done its utmost,
the conscience is, in all ordinary cases, an
infinitely better disciplinarian than the
rod. When you can get a scholar to obey
and to study because it is right, and from a
conviction of accountability to God, you
have gained a victory which is worth more
than all the penal statutes in the world, but
can never gain such a victory without lay-
ing great stress upon religious principle in
your daily instructions.”
		PEN AND SCISSORS. 
	A, flush of hope renders toil and trial
beautiful, as the sunbeams give a sparkle to
the winter’s frost.
	Sickly people, it is said, live longer
single than they would if married, and
healthy people live longer in pairs.
	Because a man does not see as you do is
not a proof that he is blind or near sighted;
and because he does not think with you on
all subjects Is no sign that he is a fool. The
eyes of the pigeon answer its purposes per-
fectly, but would not do for the hawk; and
why should a cow eat raw meat in prefer-
ence to corn or cabbage because a tiger
considers it a better diet?
	It is the wealthy and independent who
scoff at poverty; never the learned and wise
who mock at crude simplicity; never the
pure and good who evince no charity for
frail, erring humanity. And none but the
exceedingly ignorant are guilty of these
things.
	A Nautical School, presided over and con-
ducted by a lady, who has herself, within
the last ten years, educated in Navigation
and Astronomy, and fitted for active service
at sea, more than two thousand young men
—the most of whom were officers in the U.
S. Navy during the rebellion—is now in ac-
tive operation in the Rooms of the New York
Port Society, on the corner of Madison and
Catharine Streets, under the supervision of
Mrs. Capt. Brownlow—late Principal of the
N. Y. Nautical School, established by her
father, Capt. William Thomas, more than
twenty years ago.


﻿Six simultaneous applications for divorce
emanate from one family in Maysville,
Kentucky.


