HOME AFFAIRS. 
				   —
	A Special Conference will convene in the
New Tabernacle, in this city, on Saturday 3rd
inst.
	ANOTHER INTERESTING letter from Miss
Eliza R. Snow will be found in the present
number of the EXPONENT.
	THE NEXT issue of the EXPONENT closes its
first year. Need we again request an early
sending of clubs for the second volume?
[new column]
	A LADY who has been in attendance at the
Third District Court held in this city, for some
weeks past, pronounces it a “first-rate medical
school,”' A  medical case has been on trial.
	WE ARE requested to say that the name of
the President of the First Ward Relief Society of
Spanish Fork, is Catharine A. Wilkins, instead
of Williams as it appears in a report of our last
issue.
	A CONDUCTOR on one of the street cars in this
city made himself notable and notorious in the
estimation of some ladies, a short time since,
by severely kicking and cuffing an urchin
who, he said, was trying to steal a ride. The
ladies ask if a man should reprove a child for a
wrong action by himself committing one of
greater magnitude?
	PARENTS WHO are desirous of seeing their
children grow in wisdom, and grace as they ad-
vance in years, cannot be too particular now-a-
days in relation to the associations which they
keep, and the influences under which they are
liable to be placed; as has been repeatedly
evinced of late, by shameful proceedings which
have occurred in the streets of this city.
	IMPROVEMENTS IN various forms are being
rapidly carried on in different parts of this city,
which, from present indications, will soon be
extensively lighted by gas. Gardening and a
general trimming up of things out of doors, has
been going on for some time, and Salt Lake
City seems to be prepared, with the rest of the
world, to welcome once more the, fresh, sweet
face of May.
	NOTWITHSTANDING ALL the admonitions
given to teamsters to secure their horses before
leaving them standing in the streets, daily
papers are continually chronicling accidents
occasioned by teams being left carelessly, and
taking fright and running away; which,
though not generally of a serious nature, should
be sufficient warning to prevent so much heed-
lessness on the part of those having them in
charge.
	EVEN HERE, in our once quiet Utah, it
is difficult now-a-days to distinguish the
rogue from the gentleman. A lady of this
city rode in the cars to Ogden, a short
time since, opposite a respectable appearing
individual, not having the slightest suspicion
that he was other than he seemed. The next
day, however, while returning home, the same
man was seated directly in front of her, being
brought to the city in charge of an officer by
whom he had been arrested in Ogden, as a gov-
ernment defaulter from Idaho.
	LITTLE BOYS being urged into a fight, by
those who consider themselves men; and big
boys running over little ones with wheelbar-
rows, and rolling them into ditches, for the fun
of hearing them cry, and seeing them scramble
out; and other similar practices, are not such 
grand entertainments for persons who care
anything about morality or good behavior,
either in children or adults, as they seem to be
for some of the rude, ill-bred persons who now
constitute a portion of the community in dif-
ferent parts of the Territory.
	THE MANY terrible calamities occurring from
railroad accidents, occasioned frequently by
recklessness, of which, news comes from all parts
of the country, should make the people of Utah
appreciative of the careful and judicious man-
ner in which the management of the railroads
belonging to them is carried on by the gentle-
manly, polite and obliging Superintendents,
Agents and Condutors of these roads. Although
some few inconveniences are now to be met
with in going from this city to Logan in the cars,
even these are, comparatively, very slight, tak-
ing into consideration the short time the Utah
[new column]
Northern cars have been running. Any lady
who has a proper idea of taking care of herself,
may feel perfectly at home and at ease while
traveling by rail on either the Utah Southern,
Utah Central or Utah Northern railway.


