THE WORLD IS PROGRESSING.
					      ——
	This poem, which was written for, and appeared
in the twenty-first number of, the EXPONENT, April
1st, contained there several typographical errors,
which so completely changed the sense that we
deem it due to the talented author to republish it,	corrected.
The world is progressing! the sunlight of science
	With new luster sparkles to-day,
And keen, searching intellect wins an alliance
	With secrets long hidden away;
Bright genius unfolds new and great combinations
	Of power to bless and serve man;
While muses and graces forsake not their stations
	Adorning the structure so grand.

The world is progressing! O manhood arouse thee!
	Nor in the swift race be outrun;
The great wheels of progress will never turn back-
		ward,
	So roll them right bravely, each one—
In the proud halls of state, at the hearthstone so
	lowly,
	Let your voice for improvement be heard,
Strengthen virtue and honor, disdain things unholy
	And bid thought soar as free as a bird.

The world is progressing! O womanhood, waken
	And join in the jubilant strain!
The fetters which bound thee now surely are break-
	  ing.
	And never shall gall thee again.
No more in the dust shall thy meek head be trodden;
	No more shall injustice o’erwhelm;
Thou shall rise above ignorance, fashion and folly
	And reign as a queen in thy realm.

  The world is progressing! old fabrics of error
	Fall, moldr'ed and crumbling to earth;
While structures, far statelier, nobler and fairer,
	Rise pillared with power and worth.
Old Prejudice writhes 'neath the blows that are
	dealt her,
And for power, wild strugg'ling she keeps;
But her terrible sway shall forever be broken—
	Humanity no longer sleeps.

The world is progressing! yet all is not stainless,
	Grim evils yet flourish abroad—
False teaching, false swearing, and falsehearted states-
		men.
	Black intrigue, and the blackest of fraud.
But the world is progressing! thank God, we’re pro-
		gressing!
	The day of dull torpor is past;
Brave hearts and strong hands are their ardor ex-
	  pressing;	
	The millions are waking at last!
								LU DALTON.
