WOMAN’S VOICE.
			       —
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Having read the beautiful testimonies of
many of my sisters in the Gospel, that have
appeared from time to time in your paper,
I feel that I, too, should not neglect to add
my own to the list. It is more than twenty-
six years since I first became associated
with the Saints of God.   I crossed the Plains
in the first company of “Hand-carts; I
realized the blessings promised to those who
would start relying onl Israel’s God for
strength and protection, and I can truly say,
that in all, the varied and trying scenes I
have had to pass through, I have never been
forsaken by my Heavenly Father; but
through all I have enjoyed that peace of
mind which none but the Saints of God can
know. I feel very glad that there is a
channel through which woman can speak her
true feelings, for I consider that however
much the women of Utah may be pitied or
ridiculed by their sisters in the outside
world, there are thousands who would be
glad to occupy the position we hold, for are
we not the respected, and honored wives of 
heaven’s true nobility? Do not our chil-
dren have the privilege of acknowledging
their fathers, and fathers their children,
honorably sustaining them? I feel thankful
that God in his mercy has revealed a princple
by which our sons and daughters can be
reared in virtue, and free from the contam-
inating evils of celibacy. “Better, far
better,” our position to-day, as the wives of
polygamists, than that of millions of women
in the world, who are daily the victims of
men who have a “holy horror” of polygamy,
but yet hesitate not to ruin the fair charac-
ter of women, and then with scorn, trample
her under their feet—simply because she
trusted in their boasted honor! How long
shall the strong triumph over the weak?
Surely, we have cause to pray that the time
will soon come when righteousness shall
cover the earth as the waters cover the
mighty deep, and the voice of the oppressed
be no more heard in sorrow and lamenta-
tions.
	praying God to hasten the time of their
redemption.
	I remain your sister in the Covenant of
peace,					Mrs.	 A. Randal.
	Spanish Fork, April 22nd, 1873.


﻿The fact of one Federal Judge in Utah
selling out his position and getting the
purchaser appointed in his place, while the
latter refused to pay the purchase money,
is creating considerable comment throughout
the country. Evidently the character of
the men who have often been appointed to
such important positions in the Territories,
and notably in Utah, is not yet knonw to
the country. If it were, there would be less
sympathy with many of their lawless and
tyrannous acts.


