					    ALICE MARGETTS.

	Extracts from minutes of the 55th meet-
[new column]
ing of the Senior and Junior Co-operative
Retrenchment Association of Salt Lake
City, held April 12th 1873, in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms. Counselor Mrs.
Zina D. Young, presiding in the absence of
President Mrs. Mary L Horne, suggested
that as there was no particular subject to be
that day considered, the meeting be one for
testimony, and that each one speak as she
might be led by the Holy Spirit.
	Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball did not
wish to feel, on such an occasion that she
had nothing to say; it was very important
that all weigh themselves occasionally
And see if they really had faith in God
and were worthy of a place in His Kingdom.
Women and girls should be instructed in
branches of learning appropriate for them to
put to use, that they might assist in sus-
taining themselves. There was nothing
improper, unlady like or undignified in a
woman’s taking charge of a post office, or
any such light business; but it was right
and proper for women to qualify themselves
for such occupations which were more suit-
able for them than the heavy washing and
other kinds of work which some of them do
now, and which should be performed by
men.
	Mrs. Harriet C. Young and several other
sisters bore impressive testimonies to the
truth and validity of the Latter-day work.
Counselor Mrs. Elizabeth Howard said it
was a great comfort to her to have the con-
fidence of her sisters; that they should be
careful and not do anything to shake the
confidence of those they loved; exhorted
her sisters to keep the word of wisdom;
their daughters should be taught to make
themselves useful and to be self sustaining.
	Counselors Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff and B.
W. Smith, and sisters Hampton, P. L. Kim-
ball and others made suitable remarks,
giving much valuable instruction and ask-
ing blessings to rest upon Israel.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks to meet
at the same place at 2 o’clock, p. m. Sing-
ing—benediction by Mrs. Eleanor Pratt.
	M. A. JENKINS, Secretary.

	Farmington, Davis County, under date of
April 17th, sends the following:
	In reading the EXPONENT I see reports
from Relief Societies in other settlements,
and feel that I have been neglectful in not
reporting how we prosper as a Society in
Farmington  I think I can safely say that
we are improving; for although our regular
meetings, which we hold monthly, are not
so well attended as they should be, yet from
the reports given by the Teachers, after
visiting their districts, the sisters generally
feel well in their religion, and are willing,
when called upon, to donate what they can
for charitable purposes. It is only very
lately, that, by the suggestion of our Presi-
dent, Mrs. S. J. Holmes, the Society donated
seventy-five dollars for the Temple, and
received a receipt for that amount, besides
helping our Bishop in other public matters.
But we think it a duty as well as a pleasure
to assist him when we can. We meet to
work every two weeks; and, from what I
can learn, are about like other Societies in
general. We have a faithful President and
Counselors to take the lead. I have
lived in Farmington twenty-two years and
do not think there is a community where
the ladies are more willing to assist the sick,
and administer to their wants than in this
place; which I think is something in our
favor; for where and when is the true friend
needed more than in times of sickness and
distress? I prize your paper very much
and hope your subscribers will increase and


all who have a desire to, may be, able to
purchase it. 
			Yours Respectfully,
				A. S. Rogers, Secretary. 

	This comes from Wallsburg, Wasatch
County:
	Wallsburg is a small place containing
only about forty-five families; consequently
our means are limited; but the Relief
Society has always been able to meet the
call for charity and have a surplus on hand.
We hold meeting once a month, and all feel
well towards the cause engaged in.
			Sarah Glenn, Secretary.

	We receive the following from Meadow
Creek, Millard County: At a meeting held
by our Relief Society, March 8th, 1873, the
word “Female” was dispensed with, accord-
ing to suggestion. We are not a wealthy
Society, but with the help of the Lord we
intend to improve in all good as the time
advances. The Society has been organ-
ized three years. We have not many poor
among us; are thankful that we have a
kind and faithful President, and feel to
sustain her with our faith and prayers, and
with our hands also.
				Martha Adams, President. 
	Selina Adams Secretary.

		Salt Lake City, April 23rd, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	President B. Young, in some of his re-
marks during Conference advocated the
cause of woman most kindly and wisely, for
which the young ladies of the 8th Ward
Retrenchment Association return him a vote
of thanks, and wish him to live long to see
them prosper under his judicious guidance.
	Louisa C. Spencer, President.
	Sarah Jane Chamberlain, Counselor.
	Anne Loss, Secretary pro. tem.

	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
of Harrisville, Weber County, is reported as
follows: Our annual meeting, which, to
agree with former dates, should have been
held some weeks before, but was postponed
on account of the prevalence of the measels
in the settlement, we held on the 20th of
April.. It was well attended by the sisters
and a goodly number of the brethren who
gave much good instruction. The financial
report, presented by the Treasurer, Mrs.
Louisa Harris, showed that in the past year
there had been given into the Society $61:60,
$18:10 having been disbursed, there was
remaining in the treasury, in goods $19:20,
and in cash $24:30.
		Mrs. Melissa Shirtliff, President.
	Mrs. Mary Taylor, Secretary.

	The sisters write from Gunnison, April
23rd, 1873: We have had a Relief Society
in this place since September 7th, 1867.
On the 17th of May, 1868, we were reorgan-
ized as a Society, according to the pattern
set by sister E. R. Snow. Although our
“mites” put together, may not amount to
more than “a drop in the bucket,” compara-
tively, yet, we feel that we are doing our
best. Our Treasury has disbursed, to the
Emigration Fund, the Temple, the poor at
home, and other investments, about $500.
	Knowing, that with our means, our power
to do good will increase, and that “He that
giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord,” we
cheerfully join, heart and hand with our
sister Societies, in the grand object for
which we were organized. The Exponent
is a valuable companion in our Semi-monthly
sewing meetings. In our last meeting we
agreed to omit the word “Female” from the
[new column]
name of ouir Society.   We feel there is an
important work before us, destined to make
a link in the chain of the great reformatory,
plan in these Latter-days.
			  Lydia Horne, President.
	Helena Madsen, Secretary.

	On Saturday, the 26th of April, another
interesting testimony meeting was held by
the Co-operative Retrenchment Association
of this city, at their usual place of meeting.
Among the speakers were Counselors Airs.
Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Zina D. Young,
Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff; and sisters Willmarth
East, Pixton from South Cottonwood, Mag-
jgie C. Shipp, and Sarah Wheeler from the
Sugar House Ward.


