HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	
	What to do in case of accident.—
Prof. Wilder of Cornell University, gives
the following short rules for acting in case
of accident, which it will be found useful to
preserve or remember:—If choked, get
upon all fours and cough.—If in water, float
on the back, with the nose projecting.—For
apoplexy, raise the head and body; for faint-
ing, lay the person flat.—If any artery is
cut, compress above the wound; if a vein is
cut, compress below.—For slight burns, dip
the part instantly in cold water; if the skin
is destroyed, cover with varnish.—Remove
wax from the ear by tepid water; never
put a hard instrument into the ear.—In
case of poisoning, excite vomiting by tick-
ling the throat or by warm water and
mustard.—For dust in the eyes, avoid rub-
bing; dash water into them; remove cinders,
etc., with the round point of a lead pencil.—
For acid poisons, give alkalis, for alkaline
poisons, give acids—white of egg is good in
most cases; in case of opium poisoning give
strong coffee and keep moving.—Smother
a fire with carpets, etc water will often
spread burning oil, and increase danger.
Before passing through smoke, take a full
breath and then stoop low; but if carbonic
acid gas is suspected, walk erect,—Suck
poisoned wounds, unless your mouth is sore;
enlarge the wound, or, better, cut out the
part without delay; hold the wounded part
as long as can be borne to a hot coal or end
of a cigar
	The Pomegranate.—It is perhaps not
generally known that this beautiful, rich
and wholesome fruit will keep well through
the winter. Let it be wrapped and packed
away in a box or laid among clothes in a
chest and it will keep sound until spring—
try it.
	Farmer’s Fruit Cake.—One cup of sour
dried apples, soaked over night and chop-
ped fine; simmer two hours in a cup of
sugar; one-third of a cup of butter; one-half
cup of sour milk; one teaspoonful soda; one
of cloves and nutmeg; two eggs; beat well
together; add the apples stirred up in a cup
of flour; add flour till quite stiff.
	Scent Powder.—A charming recipe for
scent powder, to be used for wardrobes,
boxes, etc., far finer than any mixture sold
at the shops, is the following:—Clove gilla,
sweet peas, mignonette, orris root, rose
leaves, and aromatic calamus each one
ounce, lavender-flowers, two ounces; rho-
dium wood, one-fourth of a dram. These
are to be mixed and reduced to a coarse
powder. This scent on clothes is as if all
fragrant flowers had been pressed in their
folds.
	Pudding.—One quart of milk. While
boiling stir in one pint of flour, after it is
sifted, six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of white
sugar, one spoonful of butter, the grated
peel and juice of two lemons. All the in-
gredients must be well beaten together
before they are stirred into the milk. Stir
one way without stopping for a minute or
two, take it off and turn into your pudding
dish. It is to be eaten cold, with sugar and
cream if you like.
	Make Strawberry Wine.—Nothing can
be more delicious; nothing can be more
healthful. In all cases of dyspepsia, or of
slow, nervous fevers, or of impure blood, or
of ill-regulated bilious apparatus, it will be
found a great palliative, and a powerful aid
to other remedies of a more decided charac-
ter. Three quarts of strawberries make
one quart of juice. Add three quarts of
water and three pounds of the best sugar.
Use a clean, sweet cask, leave the bung
out for fermentation. When the fermenta-
tion subsides close the cask tightly and the
wine is ready for use. Tightly stopped it
will keep ten years, if necessary, but in my
experience it has always been found too
attractive to be kept quite so long a time.—
“Shakespearian Almanac.”
	Cold Water Drinking.—Cold baths of
the skin are good, but it is doubtful if flood-
ing the stomach on going to bed and on
rising is not, on the whole, the most profit-
able form of cold bathing. Costiveness,
piles and indigestion are uniformly relieved
by this morning and evening stomach
douche. The quantity must be determined
by each one for himself. Two or three
swallow's will generally do to begin with,
but the quantity will soon grow to a tum-
blerful, and I have known persons to use
much larger quantities with marked benefit.
If wisely managed, every dyspeptic will
be greatly improved by this cold stomach
bath.—Ex.
	A Cheap and Delicious Soup.—Save
the liquor in which the nice leg of mutton
was boiled to-day. It would be wicked
to throw it away, for a large fraction of the
succulence and nutriveness of the meat is
in it. Remove the fat to-morrow, and then
put it over the fire. Add onions if desired,
carrots and turnips, sliced thin, and some
lime beans, sweet corn and slised potatoes,
with bits of celery; add in either case rice
or barley, a tablespoonful of them dry, to a
quart of liquor is a good rule.  Do this and
at a trifling expense you may have a tureen
of soup fit to set before a King.


