CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
				Jerusalem, March 4, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	I wrote you last in Cairo, Egypt, from
whence we went to Suez, where we paid our
respects to the Red Sea of antique celebrity.
I walked up and down its low bank, admired
its beautiful, calm surface, as it lay in sweet
repose with wave unstirred; and reflected
deeply on the past of its interesting history.
	From Suez we went by rail back to Is-
maila, which we passed on our way from
Cairo to Suex. From Ismaila we went by
steamer on the great Suez Canal, one of the
modern “wonders of the world,” to Port
Said, a town built on artificial ground,
made of material taken from the bed of the
canal. On the evening of the 22nd of Febru-
ary, by the aid of boats we went on board
the Vesta, of the Austrian Lloyd line of
steamers, and early the next morning an-
chored off the coast of Jaffa, which we
reached in boats in safety, although this is
considered the most dangerous of seaports.
The Mediterranean washes the foundations
of the buildings.  We ascended a few steps
and entering a narrow, muddy street, were
met by a host of natives, clamoring for our
satchels in anticipation of a fee of “Back-
sheeh” for relieving us from carrying them.
Presently a smiling corpulent biped in tur-
ban and gown demanded our passports, at
the same time giving us a hint that he
would compromise his demand, for a fee; to
which our cashier readily assented, and
thereby also protected our baggage from
being overhauled at the Custom House.
	We walked directly to our encampment;
found our tents in readiness to receive us;
and were delighted with the many conve-
niences provided by Mr. Howard, agent of
Mr. Cook of London, under whose arrange-
ments we are traveling.
	Thus, under as clear a sunshine as had over
shone on Jaffa, and in as bright a morning
as ever dawned on the land of Palestine,
we commenced tent life, and, to render it
more impressive, it was Sunday morning.
	There is nothing attractive in the appear-
ance of the interior of this ancient town.
It is said to contain about five thousand
inhabitants. As we saw them in crowds
in the narrow, crooked streets, they are the
representatives of low life and degradation.
We walked a long, roundabout distance to
visit the “house of Simon the tanner,”
situated by the sea side, and were glad to
return to our tents in the suburbs, where we
breathed the pure fresh air. The surround-
ings of the city are pleasant and richly
decorated with groves of the lemon and
orange. With me, the reflection that we
really were in Palestine, the land rendered
dear to the Saints of God by some of the
most interesting associations of mortal life
—the history of the past in connection with
the anticipations of the future, which no
other people than Latter-day Saints can so
fully appreciate—was the all absorbing
thought.
	Early on Monday morning our camp
equipage, which consists of every thing
necessary for genteel boarding houses, was
packed and in monstrous bundles lashed to
the sides of donkeys, mules and horses; our
tents struck and packed; the laden animals
and their drivers started off; when we
mounted our horses and following our drag-
oman, went in the same direction leading to
Jerusalem.
	For a considerable distance after leaving
the city, the street on both sides, is lined
with the most luxuriant orange groves we
have seen, the limbs bending with the


weight of large clusters of the golden fruit,
and protected by hedges of cactus of an
enormous size.  We traveled till noon over
the beautiful plain of Sharon, and stopped
to lunch in the vicinity of Ramleh; where
the attendants who had our mid-day refresh-
ments in charge, consisting of light bread,
cold boiled mutton, chicken, a boiled egg
for each, an orange each, and bottles of
water, had preceded us, and opened our
lunch on mattresses provided for the purpose.
The majority of the attendants proceeded
ahead in time to pitch tents, put up for each
an iron bedstead, (which by the way is
rather a small pattern for President Smith,
but very comfortable for the rest) tables,
seats, etc., and get the camp stove and cook-
ing apparatus all into working order
preparatory to evening dinner served with
soups, meats, vegetables and pastries.
	The country through which our afternoon
ride led, is very uneven; some portions
rocky and barren.  We encamped for the
night on a lovely green, called the entrance
to the valley of Ajalon, conspicuous in the
history of Joshua.  Next day we rode
through the valley of Ajalon; up mountain
ridges, where we had delightful views of
the plains of Sharon and the Mediterranean
—the country is very picturesque, the road
zigzag, winding around and on the sides of
mountains—pass Kirjath Jearim, famous in
the history of David, lunch in the valley of
Elah and in the afternoon in view of the
Mount of Olives, which we leave at our left,
and arriving at the memorable city of the
ancient Jewish nation, the once favored of
the Most High, the site of the Jerusalem
from which the “Word of the Lord” shall yet
go forth, we found our tents in readiness
and entered them with hearts of thankful-
ness to God for His protecting care and
blessings in bringing us to this destination
in safety.
	But I must hasten to a close. The next
day, the 26th, we spent in and about Jerusa-
lem, visited the “Church of the Holy
Sepulchre;” had a fine view of the Garden
of Gethsemane; the next morning struck
tents, and spent three days in visiting the
Pools of Siloam, the Tomb of Ratchel, Beth-
lehem, the Dead Sea, Jordan river, Gilgal,
Jericho, Bethany, etc.,—have not time for
description.  On the evening of the 1st of
March returned to this city, visited the
Mount of Olives and the Mosque of Omar.
To-morrow we leave for Syria.
						Eliza R. Snow.


