R﻿ELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			    —
	By especial invitation, sisters Precendia
L. Kimball, Sarah M. Kimball and Zina D.
Young attended the Annual meeting of the
Relief Society of West Jordan, held in the
school-house on the 14th of March. There
was a full attendance of the sisters and
a goodly number of the brethren present.
The singing by a juvenile choir, trained and
led by the President, Sister Pixton, was ex-
cellent. It was a delight to see the officiat-
ing of Sister Pixton, in her presidency
—acting, as she herself expressed it, as a
“Shepherdess” over the flock entrusted to
her care. As such she trains the choir,
watches, over the young, and comforts the
poor, the aged, and afllicted all around her.
Indeed, her example is worthy of commen--
dation to all. The Society numbers forty-
eight members. The sisters had donated
and prepared a number of articles for a Fair
which certainly was most creditable to
them. These articles were disposed of to the
amount of $43:65, to be appropriated to the
building of a house for the Society. Besides
this, there was considerable donated by the
brethren, with the promise of liberal assist-
ance in future. Much valuable instruction
was given by the sisters from the city as
well as the brethren and sisters of the
Ward. Sister S. M. Kimball suggested and
advocated the formation of a Physiological
class, for the benefit of the community in
general in that locality. This suggestion
met with general approval and a resolution
to form a class was adopted. By the re-
quest of the President and Secretary of the
Society I have prepared, and forward this
report.
			PRECENDIA L. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, March 20th, 1873.

	Meeting of the Relief Society, 16th Ward,
held in the new school house on the 6th of
March, 1873. Bishop Kesler and Counselor
Riser were present and addressed the sisters,
commending them for their faithfulness,
and tendering to them the use of a room
[new column]
in the new house for their meetings, which
was most gratefully received by the Society.
	PRECENDIA L. KIMBALL, Secretary.

	Sister Melissa Reynolds writes from Heber
City, Wasatch County:—“There is a unity
of feeling among the faithful sisters here,
and improvement in grace and the know-
ledg of the truth is the general aim. And
our sincere desires are that we may be
instrumental in achieving much good in
our day.”
	Accompanying this pleasant report, comes
a list of subscriptions, which is a positive
proof that the EXPONENT is acceptable in
the Society, and corroborative of the senti-
ments expressed.

	From Paris, Oneida Co., Idaho Territory
comes the following, written April 10th,
1873: The annual meeting of the Relief
Society of Paris, was held in the Second
Ward School House, last Thursday at 2
o’clock p. m., and as our sisters in Utah,
have not heard much from those who live In
this northern country, I take pleasure in
writing to the EXPONENT concerning our
condition and feelings. Our meeting was
not so well attended by members, the roads
being very bad, as it otherwise would have
been; but we had the company of President
C. C. Rich, and Bishops Budge and Horne.
The meeting being called to order by our
respected President, sister Julia Lindsay,
Bishop Budge engaged in prayer, after
which the Secretary read a financial state-
ment of last year’s business, which showed
that the Society had collected two hundred
and eighty-three dollars and forty-four
cents and spent in assisting the poor, one
hundred and fifty dollars and seventy-nine
cents, leaving a balance in the Treasury of
one hundred and forty-two dollars and sixty-
five cents. This was considered very satis-
factory, and the sisters felt thankful, that
they had been able to help the needy so
much. President Rich, being invited, occu-
pied some time in giving instructions in
his usual kind and fatherly manner, impart-
ing much encouragement to the sisters.
He expressed great confidence in the
perpetual success of the Society, if the
members would continue to cultivate the
spirit of union. Bishop Budge followed
with suitable remarks, and advised care and
instruction by mothers to the children, thus
laying the foundation for improved lives.
President Rich asked the members if they
were still willing to sustain their President,
Mrs. J. Lindsay, and her Counselors, Mrs.
Caroline Kimball and Mrs. Elizabeth Col-
lins in their callings, and received a hearty
response in the affirmative, Sister Nancy
Rich was appointed Treasurer in place of
sister Stucki, whom circumstances prevented
from continuing in that office, which she
had faithfully filled. During the meeting
an excellent spirit prevailed, and the
Teachers reported a very good feeling in
the settlement towards the Society. It was
arranged to have a Society Social Party,
which came off last night, and was a com-
plete success,—only, so great was the general
confidence that it would be a good one, that
the hall was rather crowded. The best of
feelings prevailed, however, and the Com-
mittee, sisters Mary Oakey and Emeline
Rich were highly complimented for the
neatness and convenience of every thing.
I must not forget to say that we were
advised to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT which we intend doing.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
