WOMAN ON WOMAN’S NEEDS.
				—
	Miss Emily Faithful, before her departure
from New York on her return voyage to Eng-
land, delivered a farewell lecture in Steinway
Hall, of that city, which treated largely on the
Woman Question, and contained many pointed
truths and touching facts. The following ex-
tract we take from a report of her lecture in
the New York Tribune, of April 4th, which will
convey the drift of her position:
	In England there are now nearly three
million women dependent on their own exer-
tions. To tell such as these that woman’s
proper sphere is home is mockery, for they are
forced from their homes to get bread. Though
many a barrier to woman's livelihood has been
broken down, there are still terrible difficulties
in finding employment for women. Specially
onerous is the effort in the case of those of
fallen fortunes, members of genteel classes.
To relieve such Miss Faithful had founded a
“Fund for Destitute Gentlewomen,” to which
she would devote the proceeds of the lecture.
True it is that young men now find it hard
to get suitable work; they often have to go
West. But thereis no an alogy among them to
the wholesale yearly destruction of consciences,
bodies and souls among women—destruction
too often brought about by destitution. How
can tender-hearted people fold their hands
[new column]
while so many of their sisters are driven to the
gates of hell by want of bread? Statements
are published that capable women, willing to
work, can get employment at good wages.
Good, steady, skilled labor is wanted in just
those departments where women have gained
position. The unremitting, earnest applica-
tion required to acquire skill in these depart
ments, is hard for women to go through. In
them love of work for its own sake is no more
inherent than in men. Moreover, women are
always looking for the possible emancipator.
Men have nothing but their work to look to for
dependence. The greatest evil of all is the
lack of the right early training, and for this,
the family, the parents, society in general,
must be impeached. Society casts a stigma on
women who earn their own livelihood, and
parents pray that their daughters may never
be brought so low. As to education; a girl’s
training stops just where the main part of a
boy’s begins. Men are allowed full opportunity
to devote themselves to their chosen work,
and are not diverted by social demands. Wo-
men are at the beck and call of everybody, as it
were, and have so many society duties, so many
distracting little trifles to attend to, that the
wonder is not that there has not been a female
Shakespeare, Raphael, Newton, but that women
have done so much.
	The problem, what we shall do with our
redundent women in England, is answered by
some philosophers by proposing emigration
and marriage. But emigration has already
been tried, and Scotch, English, and Irish
have been sent to Australia and America in large
numbers without much diminishing the gravity
of the problem; while as for marriage there
is yet to be found the woman to say “No” when
the right man appears. As long as the num-
ber of women in Great Britain exceeds that of
the number of men by six per cent., marriage
will not wholly do away with the difficulty
unless Mormonism is tried. True marriage is
the crown and glory of a woman's life; but it
must be founded on love, and not on the desire
of a home or of support, while nothing can be
more deplorable, debasing, and corrupting than
the loveless marriages brought about in our
upper society by a craving ambition and a long-
ing for a good settlement. Loveless marriages
and a different standard of morality for men
and women are the curses of modern society.
The dignity of labor is not properly appreciated.
We agree that work is honorable in a man,
but are not yet convinced that idleness is dis-
honorable in a woman. A contempt for work
is at the bottom of the mind of a fashionable
young lady. Frivolity is so general that it is
surprising that so much good survives in spite
of neglect. So long as we frown down aud
sneer at the efforts to enlarge woman’s sphere,
we are encouraging frivolity and idleness in
women. We hear the interests and rights of
women spoken of as if these could be separated
from those of man, as if men and women were
creatures of a different kind. A most common
and mischievous error is that which would
make woman the mere shadow and attendant
of her lord, as if a shadow could be a true
helpmeet, We have long heard the man’s
sphere is the world; woman’s is home. But
women have a part in the world, while men
are not ciphers in the home circle.
	This is the language of a true woman; of one
who comprehends that woman has a nature of
her own, distinct of itself, but one which is
never wholly satisfied unless she is fulfilling
her designed mission on earth, by becoming a
loved and honored wife and occupying that
position wherein the responsibilities of mater-
nity are hers. She should have the right to
work, and receive fair pay for it; she should
enjoy representation with taxation; she should
be allowed to fill every honorable position in
society for which she has capacity; but she
should not have her womanly feelings crushed
out, nor her woman's heart deadened; for above
all she should enjoy the right to a home and a
husband, to have a voice in the choiceof the man
with whom she unites her destinies, and fill
the noblest, holiest and most exalted position
occupied by humanity on the earth—that of
moulding pliant, tender beings for lofty pur-
poses in time and an exalted immortality here-
after. 
	In England, Miss Faithful says, are three


millions of women dependent on their own ex-
ertions. They have no husbands, or perhaps
worse than none—men who degrade their
manhood, cease to be beings whom woman
can love or respect; and instead of being
woman’s protectors, guides and supporters,
become burthens upon the weaker sex and a
disgrace to humanity. Even suppose these
three millions had work, and suppose all the
women in this and every other country who
are dependent upon their own exertions were
also supplied with work and the means to live,
how are the holy upwellings of woman’s wifely
and motherly nature to be met, by any
recognized means palatable to the world of
Christendom? We put the query in all sin-
cerity, as forming a part of a whole as known
as the “Woman Question;” and add, after
years of acquaintance with that system—
“Mormonism,”—to which Miss Faithful refers,
that there will be found more in her remark
regarding it, thus apparently dropped at ran-
dom, than society outside of Utah is to-day
willing to recognize.
	The subject is worth recurring to again.


