EDITORIAL NOTES. 
		     —
	"ANOTHER WIFE murder” might be
almost the terrible daily cry now. Edgewoods,
near Boston, furnished one of the latest
victims.
	THERE ARE indications of wide-spread
troubles with the savage Indians, and the
savage white man howls madly for exter-
mination.
	MORE OFFICIAL defalcations, and an
occasional pardon for a criminal against the
government, continue to stir the stagnant
flow of public life.
	UTAH AFFAIRS continue to occupy public
attention throughout the country, and dis-
cussion on them shows a plentiful lack of
information on the subject.
	JAPAN WANTS Christianity for state
reasons, though. Many people pretend
they have it, when it is only policy that
dictates the pretense.
	A VIGOROUS political editor inquired, when
informed that Governor Kellogg had lately
been hanged in effigy in New Orleans, why
the people didn’t hang him in earnest in-
stead of in effigy.
	ANOTHER HORRIBLE railroad accident
has occurred, this time in Connecticut,
with “nobody to blame” as usual. Unlike
the steamer Atlantic horror, which was a
prolific topic for over a week, this occupied
public attention for only a day or two!
	AMERICAN COMMISSIONERS to the Vienna
Exposition are charged with the gravest
corruption and venality, and the scandal is
the talk of two continents. Honesty in
public officers would seem to be only “a
relic of barbarism,” like purity and earnest
piety.
	INSTANTANEOUS PHOTOGRAPHY is a late
discovery of importance. The fast horse
“Occident,” owned by ex-Governor Stan-
ford, of California, was photographed while
running at a speed of thirty-two feet a
second. The value of this discovery will
be better understood in the future.
	THE LAVA Bed, where the Modoc In-
dians have their hiding place, is said by
geologists, to be an outflow of volcanic
matter, forming a sea of melted rock which
has hardened and again become like rock,
covering probably a hundred square miles,
and honeycombed with caverns, where it is
impossible to get at them by those unac-
quainted with the nature of the locality.
	HERE IS how “Gath”—or George Alfred
Townsend—in the Chicago Tribune, alludes
to the travels of Dr. Newman and his clerk
—Mrs. Newman. “Gath” has a nice way of
putting it:  “The days of the itinerant
ministry have returned, and the Rev. Dr.
Newman will go on circuit—to Japan. He
travels, like Lorenzo and Peggy Dow, with
his wife, M. F.—,on a free steamship pass.
I refer to the M. F. because under these
modest initials the lady was concealed in
the appointment.”
	A COLORED student of a law-school in the
District of Columbia, was, the other day,
admitted to practice before the Supreme
Court of that Territory. The Supreme
Court of Illinois refuses Myra Bradwell the
right to practice law, because she is a
[new column]
woman, and the Supreme Court of the
United States affirms the decision, because
it is a matter in which the State is supreme;
but in Utah both the colored law-student
and white woman could have been admitted
to the bar on terms of equality. Will some
one tell us what peculiar kind of slavery this
then is, which so manifests itself in Utah?
	THE SUPREME Court of the United States
having decided in the case of Myra Brad-
well against the State of Illinois, that a
woman is not a citizen under the 14th
Amendment to the Constitution, and there-
fore cannot vote, it becomes the duty of all
women, and of all who desire they should
possess their just rights, to earnestly and
persistently agitate for the passage of the
16th Amendment, to secure a recognition of
woman’s right to earn honestly and honor-
ably the means to live, and have a voice as
the political equal of man, in saying how
the taxes, of which she pays her share, shall
be disposed of.
	LOUISIANA IS still terribly unsettled; and
less than a couple of weeks ago a battle
occurred between the whites and blacks, in
which over a hundred of the latter were
shot down. This is veritably a war of races,
and is the result of forcing, by law, the
freedmen into positions of social equality
with and political superiority over their
former owners. It is affirmed that the votes
of the last election have been ignored, and
the Kelogg government, or that sustained
by the colored citizens, is upheld by the
Federal government. Such a condition of
affairs ill accords with the claim of prosper-
ous peace all over the country; and indicates
a condition of feeling which may work much
evil and misery before it is removed.
	ONE OF the Associate Justices of the
Supreme Court of this Territory, T. J. Drake,
sold out his position to O. F. Strickland,
who held the office of Judge here for nearly
four years; and now the whole matter has
been exposed by the commencement of a
suit for tbe recovery of the price of the judi-
cial position. Yet such men have not a
sense of shame sufficient to even try and
cover up their disgrace! No wonder poli-
ticians talk of the incorruptibility of public
men, when here was a Federal Judge, an
officer supposed to be immaculateness per-
sonified, who valued his honor, his official
position and his reputation at $2,800; and
he found a buyer who is charged with be-
coming rich in four years on $3,000 a year,
but who was never wealthy enough to pay
the bill he contracted in buying his office.
And these are the men whose voices have
been so potent against the people of Utah.
	“CAPTAIN JACK,” chief of the Modoc
Indians, on the borders of California and
Oregon, after having failed to receive ac-
ceptable terms from the Peace Commis-
sioners treacherously invited another “peace
talk,” and at the council thus held he and
the Indians with him shot and killed Gen-
eral Canby and Dr. Thomas, one of the
Commissioners, and seriously injured Mr.
Meacham, another Commissioner. Then a cry
rang through the land for the utter exter-
mination of the Modocs, men, women and
children; a cry so barbarously savage, as if
the vengeful Indian spirit had swept over
the country with the utmost fierceness. A
[new column]
noble people, a Christian people, a truly
civilized people, seek justice, not revenge, but
this wild and implacable thirst for revenge,
leveling death against a whole people, youth
and age, manhood and infancy, male and
female, because their leaders, driven to
desperation and goaded by repeated wrongs,
planned and brutally perpetrated a foul
murder, is neither noble, Christian nor civi- 
lized.	
	WE CLIP from the Washington Star, of
April 16th, the following, which settles
negatively woman’s claim to equal rights
even with the colored masculines, under the
14th Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States: “The case of Myra Brad-
well, plaintiff in error vs. the State of Illi-
nois, has been decided in favor of defendant
by the United States Supreme Court, the
Chief Justice alone dissenting. Mrs. Brad-
well, who is the editor of a Chicago law
journal, applied for permission to practice
law in the Supreme Court of Illinois; sub-
mitting the requisite certificate as to charac-
ter and qualification. The application was
denied on the ground that a woman is not
entitled to admission. The applicant
appealed to the Supreme Court of the United
States, claiming that she is a citizen of the
United States, and, therefore, is entitled to
the privilege of practising law in the
State of Illinois, under the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The United States
Supreme Court affirm the judgment of the
Illinois Supreme Court. Mr. Justice Miller
delivered the opinion of the court. Justices
Bradley, Swayne, and Field concurred in
the judgment, but not in the opinion.”
	AS AN illustration of the quickness of
the eye and delicacy of touch which woman
undoubtedly possesses in a superior degree
to man, we take the following from a
Washington paper; merely adding, that as 
a result of numerous experiments woman
experts are exclusively employed in this
department of the government offices: “Miss
Patterson, of the United States Treasurer’s
office, with two female assistants, has been
at work every bright day for two weeks 
past in overhauling, for the purpose of
identification, the packages of bank notes
and securities which were so badly burned
by Anderson, the insane cashier of Lamber-
ton’s bank, at Franklin, Pennsylvania, about
a month since. Many of these papers were
almost wholly destroyed, in fact, in some
instances bills and other papers were com-
pletely consumed, nothing remaing but
small portions of the ashy fabric, which a
breath of air would have broken into minute
particles. Notwithstanding this, so deli-
cately and carefully have these vague
vestiges of what was once money been
manipulated by the experts that almost all
the notes and securities have been identified,
and those issued by the government will be
redeemed by Uncle Sam. The railroad and
other corporation bonds will doubtless be
redeemed by the companies issuing them.
Ex-Representative Gillfillan, son-in-law of 
Mr. Lamberton, the president of the bank,
and who has been in Washington for several
weeks watching the process of identification,
is greatly pleased with the result, and
speaks in high terms of the skill of General
Spinners’s experts.”


