Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-251]; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918 Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts ns Siting irgtiil re ee ae

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6.90 Zone 3. «si«'(# NL.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4..««i«iw«tiwt 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 «we. 80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. A 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah: _ a MAKE A i Cw RESOLUTION BOOKS 1. OUR WORD OF WISDOM by David D. Geddes This new Deseret Book publication is inspiration from cover to cover. Our Word of Wisdom has special meaning for Latter-day Saints and covers the LDS health code from the negative aspects of tobacco and cancer to the positive aspects of wholesome grains and "meats in season." Many new and interesting observations are made. — $2.95 2. THE ART

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (2 segments, 35,317 chars) ===

Snow at Night Christie Lund Coles This is as near to silence as earth comes — No leaf stirs, birds are still; the stencilled night Seems mesmerized by the motion of the snow, Falling as soft as breath or break of light. The earth is fleeced, there is a sheen before The lamppost near my window; and the trees Stand poised as slim swans just before their flight. The starless sky is colorless as these. ~ The heart grows quiet too before this scene Where a snow-packed wire almost, almost hums, And knows a benediction on this night As near to silence as earth ever comes. Ees 2 Old Year, New Year Norma Wrathall Year's end to year's end, ° Then the beginning:; Old Year to New * Night to dawn thinning. Yl Holly and mistletoe I Threaded with bliss; f. Love's golden circlet Sealed with a kiss. So spins our time: loss, Laughter, and tears, Mingled like leaves In the wreath of the years. Thorns will prevail, but Hope dulls their pain; Stars light the dark Until New Day again. Place of Mothers inthe Plan of © Teaching the Gospel in the Home [Address Delivered in Presidencies Department, Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1964] Mou might be interested to know the nature of the meeting from which Elder Romney and I have just come. We have done as apparently the worthies of another dispensation did. "They went to the House of the Lord and took sweet counsel together," the scriptures say. We have done that since nine o'clock this morning: Having come fasting, we have engaged in the. Holiest order of prayer; we have witnessed a rich outpouring; and I think in the language of the scriptures, "we have to take sweet counsel together.' It is just one of those meetings that brings us nigh to heaven in a place and at a time when we need so much of the blessings of the Almighty. When Brother John A: Widtsoe was alive, he used to tell us of a meeting he held at a stake conference, wherethey asked how. Long it had been since the Church had received a revelation. He stroked his chin thoughtfully and said, "Oh, probably since last Thursday." And that startled them — to realize that here and now, week by week — he knew as Elder Romney and I know — we see evidences of constant; divine guidance. Today we bear that witness to. You sisters, that there has been a real. Outpouring of spiritual light and truth. — I am glad that this body of sisters is constituted as you-are, as the presidencies, the leaders, of the Relief Society organizations of the stakesand mission districts. More and more, I think, we will come tothe time where we must, as General Authorities and general board members, instruct the leaders of the stakes and the missions, and then. Expect: you. To be so well schooled that: you are prepared and able; to move down to the next level of authority in the wards and branches and so instruct them that they are then prepared to. Instruct the people. Today, you will receive instructions regarding the Correlating Program, about which Sister Spafford in her excellent message which she delivered so ably. Yes-- terday, spoke to you. Therefore, what I shall say will be in several different categories. JANUARY 1965 First, I sat down the other night and combed through many statements about the importance of the home, to get some sort of "punch lines," if you might call it that, to give to you from the viewpoint of thinkers, leaders in various fields — how they have construed the importance of maintaining the integrity of the home. Then I am going to move to some scriptures from the various dispensations of the past, to show you how the prophets have schooled the people as to the responsibility of the parents with regard to their children. Then I am going to come down a little closer and bring to you some quotations about Family Home Night, as it has been taught to us, beginning with President Joseph F. Smith, and even statements preceding that time, about our responsibility as parents in the home. And then, finally, to get down to the specifics of the thing that we shortly will have to give to you by way of instructions, by which we hope the parents will be better prepared to do the work which the Lord has commanded them to do. I was at a conference in Idaho, and I shall not talk too specifically about it, because I nearly blundered by speaking too bluntly about the carelessness of this stake in naming a husband and wife to an organization which took them both out of the home, without leaving one or the other there to tend the children; that they ought to be careful and assign a mother to one organization so the father could be home, and then when the father had to be gone, so the mother could be home. Well, I found that I had 8 given some offense because of my statement, when stake leaders freely predicted a wholesale resignation as a result of my rather blunt: remarks. In the afternoon, I looked to have someone to support my contention. I was sitting by the stake Relief Society president, and I think she probably is here today. She had raised nine children, all of them married now, and all of them in the temple; a very successful mother; and all her life, all the time she was raising her family, she had been a leader in one of the women's organizations. So I asked her to tell us how she had been able to be a leader and yet had been able to raise such a remarkable family. This lovely sister could not have given a more perfect talk from my standpoint than if I had schooled her on what to say. She said: "In the first place, what success I have had in raising my family, I owe to my angel mother. I raised my children as my wonderful mother raised us, and that chain reaction, which she started, has gone through my family, and I hope I have transferred it on to my children." The importance of a mother was pinpointed by someone who said, ""When you teach a boy, you are just teaching another individual, but when you teach a woman or a girl, you are teaching a whole family." The second thing, she said: "I married a wonderful companion. Daddy always felt that I should be active just as well as he should be active, and so whenever we were asked to hold a position, we sat down with the bishop or the PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME stake president to see if we could take the position that was being offered, and yet see that our family would not be neglected. We have worked it out all through our married life, so that our children never have been unattended. One of us has been home with the children." And then, the third thing she said was, "I have an unshakeable testimony in the divine mission of the Lord, Jesus Christ." I submit to you that there can hardly be three things said which would make for more successful motherhood than these three things mentioned by this wonderful stake Relief Society president. Someone said, "A home is a roof over a good woman." Another said, ''A hundred men may make an encampment, but it takes a woman to make a home." You will never know until you have had the experience of walking into a house without a mother and one's companion there. It is like walking into a darkened room without the light turned on. The first intimation of domestic happiness you may _ recognize when members of a family say how they love their home. That is the indication of real domestic happiness. "'Where the home is ruled according to the Word of God, angels might be asked to stay, and they would not find themselves out of their element," one thinker wrote: Households there may be, well ordered and abiding in comfort; families there may be whose various members live in harmony and love; but homes in their true sense there cannot be where there is no one whom manly choice has made a wife, and infant lips have learned to honor the name of mother. Another wrote: Six things are requisite to a happy home. Integrity must be the architect; and tidiness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection, lighted up with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day, while over all as a protecting canopy and glory, nothing will suffice except the blessing of God. "The best school and discipline is home; family life is God's own method of training the young," so our newspaper the other morning said. Home is the seminary of all other institutions; it is the cradle of character and Christianity. Eighty per cent of our criminals come from unsympathetic homes. The most essential element in any home is God. Christianity begins at home; we build our characters there, and what we become in after years is largely determined by our training and home environment. I heard a humble man out in one of our country stakes say something of great wisdom. Whether or not it was original with him, I do not know, but his statement was: "What we are hereafter depends on what we are after here." I think that, translated into a_ sermon, this would provide some worthwhile thoughts. To Adam, the Lord said, concerning children: And it is given unto them to know good from evil.... Wherefore, teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only JANUARY 1965 Begetten is the Son of Man, even Jesus 'Christ, a: righteous Judge; who shall come in the meridian of time. Therefore-I give unto-you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children... (Moses 6:56-58). Now, that's one of the earliest instructions I could find, where parents and leaders were to teach children. King Benjamin to his people said: And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry; or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and: serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which has been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all righteousness. But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teachthem to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:14, 15). In the book of Deuteronomy, in the. Old Testament, we. Find this being said. By Moses, as the Lord instructed him: And thou shalt_love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with al] thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently: unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up (Deut. 6:5-7). Now, our leaders today have said something. From the discourses of President Woodruff, I have a quotation: I consider that the mother has a greater influence over her posterity than any other person can. Have. And the question has arisen some time "When does this education begin?" Our prophets have said, "When the spirit life from God enters into the 10 tabernacle." The condition of the mother at that time will have its effect upon the fruit of her womb; and from the birth of the child, and all through life, the 'teachings and the example of the mother govern and control in a great measure, that child, and her influence is felt by it through time and eternity. I have long been satisfied that the devil was making great exertions to drive a wedge in between parents and children — trying to inspire and instil into the minds of the sons and daughters of the Saints those corrupting notions that will prevent them from following the footsteps of their fathers and mothers: but this cannot be done! The sons. And daughters of this people, if we do our duty, will be held by the strength and in the name of Israel's God. (The Discourses of Wilford. Woodruff, pp. 269-270). President Grant has made two: very important: comments: There seems: to: be. A power which the mother -possesses in shaping the life of the child that is far superior. A mother's love seemsto be the most perfect and most sincere, the strongest of any love we know anything about. I, for one, rejoice in it because of its wonderful example to me. If we as parents will so order: our lives-that our children will know. And: realize in their hearts that we are in very deed Latter-day Saints, that. We actually knowwhat we are talking about; they, by seeking: after the Lord, wil get that same testimony (Gospel Standards, pp. 152, 154). What a tremendous comfort and. Promise that must be! President McKay has _ these comments to make: God has placed upon parents the responsibility of instilling these principles into the minds of. Children. Church schools, Sunday Schools, Mutual Improvement Associations, Primary organizations are all helps in government, established here to assist PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME in the upbuilding and guidance of the youth, but none of these — great and important factors as they are in the lives of youth — can supplant the permanence and the influence of the parents in the home (Pathways to Happiness, page 118). President Joseph F. Smith said: Another great and important duty devolving upon this people is to teach their children, from their cradle until they become men and women, every principle of the gospel, and endeavor, so far as lies in the power of the parents, to instil into their hearts a love for God, the truth, virtue, honesty, honor and integrity to everything that is good. That is important for all men and women who stand at the head of a family in the household of faith. Teach your children the love of God, teach them to love the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Teach them to love their fellowmen, and especially to love their fellow members in the Church that they be true to their fellowship with the people of God. Teach them to honor the Priesthood, to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church (Gospel Doctrine, pp 292-293). And here is another quotation from President McKay: No matter what they may be without, are your homes pure within? Are morning prayers offered there regularly? Or do the things of this world take you away from your home and make you deprive yourself of morning prayers with the children? Woe to that home where the mother abandons her holy mission or neglects the divine instruction, influence, and example — while she bows, a devotee, at the shrine of social pleasure; or neglects the essential duties in her own household, in her enthusiasm to promote public reform (Gospel Ideals, page 481). Now that is well pointed, and I hope all our mothers can get the message. Then he added: ''God has placed upon you parents the responsibility of instilling these principles into the minds of children." Finally, this quotation from President Brigham Young: If you mothers will live your religion, then in the love and fear of God teach your children constantly and thoroughly in the way of life and salvation, training them up in the way they should go, when they are old they will not depart from it (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 206). The Home Teaching Program Now this coming Saturday night, President McKay has directed that the theme of the general Priesthood meeting will be a program, announced Churchwide, on teaching of the gospel in the home. In this there will be defined the beginning of the program which will be initiated beginning January 1, 1965, in which the Relief Society organization will play a very vital part. Now, one of the questions that is frequently asked, and upon which there seems to be some confusion, is with reference to the visiting teacher program of the Relief Society, which is thought, in some cases, to conflict with the Home Teaching Program. Now, may I say to you that in all our discussions as a Correlation Committee we have never thought to give direction or instruction that the Home Teaching Program should discontinue the visiting teaching program of the Relief Society. But the visiting teacher program now has an objective that is a little different and beyond an auxiliary to the Home Teaching Program.

---

Doxey Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 85) For First Meeting, April 1965 Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord and how claim to office may be tested. INTRODUCTION By commandment, William W. Phelps was promised certain bles- 'sings afier his baptism. (Section 55.) At this early period (June 1831), he was given the assignment to travel with the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon to Independence, Missouri, where he was to engage in the printing business. (Verses 4-5.) At the time the Prophet wrote to him (November 27, 1832) about conditions in Missouri, he was editor and printer of the Evening and Morning Star, the first periodical published by the Church. Brother Phelps was also an assistant to Bishop Edward Partridge. In reply to a letter from him, the Prophet, already concerned about the welfare of the saints in Missouri, gave instructions regarding the 58 allotting of inheritances to the saints. Matters of great weight rested upon the Prophet's mind and by inspiration he sensed the feelings of Brother Phelps in these words:... My God, great and mighty art Thou, therefore show unto Thy servant what shall become of those who are essaying to come up unto Zion, in order to keep the commandments of God, and yet receive not their inheritance by consecrations, by order of deed from the Bishop, the man that God has appointed in a legal way, agreeably to the law given to organize and regulate the Church, and all the affairs of the same (DHC I:298). Then, revealing the source of his own feelings toward Brother Phelps, the Prophet wrote: Brother William, in the love of God, having the most implicit confidence in you as a man of God, having obtained this confidence by a vision of heaven, I his therefore I will proceed to unfold to you some of the feelings of my heart, and to answer the question (Jbid.). LETTERS AS REVELATIONS From this letter of November 27, 1832, we have received Section 85 of the Doctrine and Covenants. (DHC 1:298-299.) Historically, there are many examples of letters becoming scripture as the writer was inspired to pen words of admonition, encouragement, and commandment. The apostle Paul indicated that his knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ was received not from men but from the Lord, the Giver of revelation. (Galatians 1:11-12.) Christian scripture consists of many letters written to branches of the Church and to individuals during the New Testament period. (Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, Colossians, Timothy, etc.) The apostles Peter and John have also contributed scripture in the form of letters. In The Book of Mormon we have the letter of Mormon to his son Moroni that explains the doctrine of the atonement as it relates to little children. (Moroni 8.) Subsequent sections in the Doctrine and Covenants also come from letters. (Sections 121, 122, 123, 127, 128.) CHURCH RECORD TO BE KEPT Important instructions were given to the '"Lord's clerk' in _ Zion (Missouri) regarding the keeping of a faithful record. Under the law of consecration the - steward was required to manage inheritance (stewardship), not only for his own welfare but also for the general purposes of the Church. Records were to be LESSON DEPARTMENT kept of those who consecrated their property and of the stewardships received. (D&C 85:1.) The following verse of the revelation describes somewhat the nature of some of our records of today: "And also their manner of life, their faith, and works. " In that day those who came to Zion and did not consecrate, and, consequently, did not receive an inheritance, were considered unfaithful to their covenants. A penalty for these and also those who had apostatized after receiving their inheritance was not to have their names enrolled with the faithful. (Verses 2-3.) BOOK OF LIFE An accurate record of acts is maintained in the heavens comparable with the recordings made in the "'book of the law of God" (see D&C 85:1-5) kept by the Lord's clerk on the earth. In a later revelation, the Lord emphasized the necessity for keeping accurate records that there might be agreement with the "book of life' which is kept in heaven. ([bid., 128:7.) In the New Testament period, John the Revelator explained that all things shall be inherited by the faithful, while the disobedient shall not enter into the abode of God. And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a, lie: but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life (Revelation 21:27). The Lamb's book of life is the book of life kept in the heavens. PRESENT APPLICATION In 1832 and as long as the law of consecration was in force, the 

59 JANUARY 1965

 Lord intended that his saints would prepare themselves against the day of burning when the Savior would come in flaming fire taking vengeance upon those who were not keeping his commandments. (D&C 85:3; II Thessalonians 1:7-8.) This message is similar to the promise that the same judgment would come to those who would not tithe: Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming. For after today cometh the burning — this is speaking after the manner of the Lord — for verily I say, tomorrow all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, for I am the Lord of Hosts; and I will not spare any that remain in Babylon. Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today (D&C 64: 23-25). It is apparent from the discussion about the book of life and its purpose, that the inheritance of the saints in the future life will be determined by their faithfulness. In the annual conference of 1900, speakers mentioned this subject and also applied Section 85 to conditions as they are now. The law of consecration in force in 1832 is not required of the saints today, but every member of the Church is under obligation to keep the commandments, among which is the law of tithing. By commandment, a faithful record is kept of the non-tithe payers as well as of those who pay tithing. In the language of Elder Rudger Clawson:..'. The lines are being drawn. It must be known to the authorities of 60 this Church and to the people who are faithful and who are not faithful. God requires it and it must be recorded, for the reason plainly set forth in the revelation, that those whose names are not found recorded in the book of the law of God shall have no inheritance in Zion in that day when our eternal inheritance shall be divided out to us (Conference Report, April 1900, page 44). "THE STILL SMALL VOICE" There are various means by which the Lord communicates with his children and, especially, the prophets. In the Doctrine and Covenants there are many forms of revelation noted: for example, the visitation of heavenly beings, Section 27; by vision, as Section 76; the use of the Urim and Thummim, as Sections 3, 6, 7, 11; inspiration, Sections 8, 20 and 21, and other ways. We come now to another method of revelation — the Lord speaking into the mind. An example is Enos, who, while struggling in the spirit said: ''behold, the voice of the Lord came into my mind again." (B. Of M., Enos 10). Jeremiah experienced revelation in this same way. (Jeremiah 1:4, 11, 13.) One of the notable experiences of the Prophet Joseph Smith in receiving revelation is found in Section 85, as follows: Yea, thus saith the still small voice, which whispereth through and _pierceth all things, and often times it maketh my bones to quake while it maketh manifest (Verse 6). Nephi, in calling his wayward brothers to repentance, reminded them of the times when an angel "hath spoken unto you in a still small voice, but ye were past feeling, that ye could not feel his words" (I Nephi 17:45). Every member of the Church is entitled to receive divine guidance in the daily affairs of his life, as well as in his Church positions. President Heber J. Grant once said: The Lord gives to many of us the still, small voice of revelation. It comes as vividly and_ strongly as though it were with a great sound. It comes to each man, according to his needs and faithfulness, for guidance in matters that pertain to his own life. For the Church as a whole it comes to those who have been ordained to speak for the Church as a whole (Conference Report, April 1945, page 9). Very early in the dispensation, the Lord revealed that there was only one person at a time who has the right and power to receive revelation for the Church (D&C 28:2-7; 43:2-4, Lesson 18, Relief Society Magazine, August 1959.) INTERPRETATION Verses 7 and 8 of Section 85 were given by the Lord about Bishop Edward Partridge and his calling in regulating the Church in Missouri, with special reference to the law of consecration. Because of a misunderstanding of - this revelation, President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors, John R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund, wrote upon this subject for the benefit of the believer. In their preface to their interpretation, they wrote: Perhaps no other passage in the revelations of the Lord, in this dispensation, has given greater rise to so much speculation as this one. [D&C 85:6-8.] Also, it has been used by vain and foolish men to bolster up their vagaries of speculation, and in some cases their pretensions to great _the "one mighty and _ strong," LESSON DEPARTMENT power and nigh positions they were to attain in the Church. One would think in such a matter as this that sufficient native modesty would assert itself to restrain a man from announcing himself as the one upon whom such high honors are to be conferred, and who is to exercise such great powers in establishing the Saints in their inheritances; and that even if one suspected, for any reason, that such a position, and such exceptional powers were to be conferred upon him, he would wait until the Lord would clearly indicate to the Church, as well as to himself, that he has been indeed sent of God to the work of so noble a ministry, as is described in the passage under question. Those, however, who have so far proclaimed themselves as_ being have manifested the utmost ignorance of the things of God and the order of the Church. Indeed their insufferable ignorance and egotism have been at the bottom of all their pretensions, and the cause of all the trouble into which they have fallen. They seem not to have been aware of the fact that the Church of Christ and of the Saints is completely organized, and that when the man who shall be called upon to divide unto the Saints their inheritances comes, he will be designated by the inspiration of the Lord to the proper authorities of the Church, appointed and sustained according to the order provided for the government of the Church (/mprovement Era, 10:929-930, October 1907). These are the verses that concern us in this lesson: And it shall come to pass that I, the Lord God, will send one mighty and strong, holding the scepter of power in his hand, clothed with light for a covering, whose mouth shall utter words, eternal words; while his bowels shall be a fountain of truth, to set in order the house of God, and to arrange by lot the inheritances of the saints whose names are found, and the names of their fathers, and of 

61 JANUARY 1965

 their children, enrolled in the book of the law of God; While that man, who was called of God and appointed, that putteth forth his hand to steady the ark of God, shall fall by the shaft of death, like as a tree that is smitten by the vivid shaft of lightning (D&C 85:7-8). In their explanation of these verses, the First Presidency set forth these ideas: 1. Conditions of jealousy, pride, unbelief, and hardness of heart prevailed among the brethren in Missouri. (Ibid., 84:54-58, 76.) Bishop Edward Partridge was a party to this condition, resulting in the foregoing revelation being received. 2. Bishop Partridge and most of the saints in Missouri partially repented, although in March 1833, the Lord declared that he was not well pleased with the bishop. Eight years later he died due to. Persecution in Missouri, forgiven of the Lord. Who shall say that his repentance, his sacrifices, his sufferings and faithfulness did not procure for him a mitigation of the severe judgment decreed against him in the revelation contained in the eighty-fifth section of the Doctrine and Covenants? At any rate, the Lord said, some three years later, that he was well pleased with Bishop Partridge (Improvement Era 10:938-939; see also DHC Ii: 302-303). 3. Bishop Partridge was the man referred to in the revelation who should fall by the shaft of death, if he did not repent. (D&C 85:8.) 4. If Bishop Partridge had not repented, the Lord would have appointed "one mighty and strong" to take his place; therefore, the First Presidency considered "'the whole incident of the 62 prophecy closed" (Improvement Era 10:940). BISHOP EDWARD PARTRIDGE Bishop Edward Partridge was called to the bishopric February 4, 1831 (D&C 41:9), and at that time the Lord referred to him as "like unto Nathanael of old." Before this, he was a member of the Campbellites and joined the Church in December 1830. During the severe persecution of the saints in Missouri, due partly to their failure to keep the commandments of the Lord, he "'acted a most noble, and self-sacrificing part, and bore many indignities with the greatest patience." Partly stripped of his clothing, the bishop was taken to the public square in Independence, Missourl, because he would not denounce The Book of Mormon and he was tarred and feathered, as the mob jeered. Later, he with five others, offered themselves as ransom for the Church even to be scourged and put to death, if that would stop the inhuman cruelties heaped upon the saints by the Missourians. Later, he assisted the saints in their drivings from Missouri, and assisted in their location in Illinois. On May 27, 1840, Bishop Partridge died in Nauvoo, accepted of the Lord. AN ALTERNATIVE From this revelation, there is no escape from the definite word of the Lord on how his servants are to be appointed. President Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors drew attention to the important truth that if there was ever a need for the "one mighty and strong" he would have to occupy the same position as Bishop Part- ridge — the Presiding Bishop. It would be that bishop's duty in the future, under the law of consecration, to "arrange by lot the inheritances of the Saints." (D&C 57:7, 15; 58:14, 17; 85:7.) Furthermore, that bishop would have to be called in the Lord's way, and not as men might wish to make their own rules. The order of calling Priesthood officers was established early in the dispensation. With the restoration of the Priesthood, it was stated that authority is necessary to call men into the Lord's service. Before this, Hyrum Smith was told that he was not to preach the gospel until he had been called. (Jbid., 11:15.) In the revelation on organizing the Church, Priesthood officers were to be appointed and ordained. (Ibid., 20:2-3, 38-39, 60.) Moreover, they were to be approved by a vote of the Church in appointed meetings. Verses 61-65.) These steps are necessary to receive the approval of the Lord: (1) a call by revelation or authority; (2) approval of the members of the Church; and (3) an ordination by one who has the authority. These steps were indicated later, as noted above, to validate the call of the President of the Church. (Jbid., 28:2-7; 43-2-4.) The Presiding Bishop as all officers in the Church, is no exception, as witness the instruction concerning the appointment of Bishop Edward Partridge: And again, I have called my servant Edward Partridge; and I give a commandment, that he should be appointed by the voice of the church, and ordained a bishop unto the church, to leave his merchandise and to spend all his time in the labors of the church; LESSON DEPARTMENT To see to all things as it shall be appointed unto him in my laws in the day that I shall give them (Jbid., 41:9-10). [Italics by writer. ] Future bishops unto the Church will receive their appointment in the same manner. The Lord declares that there can be no exception. Pretenders to Church office or to the rights and privileges of the Church have arisen and _ will probably continue to arise occasionally; therefore, it behooves Latter-day Saints to be aware of the foregoing keys against deception. In concluding their message on this revelation (Section 85), President Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors wrote in 1907:... We would say that the Latterday Saints by this time, should be so well settled in the conviction that God has established his Church in the earth for the last time, to remain, and no more to be thrown down, or destroyed; and that God's house is a house of order, of law, of regularity, that erratic disturbers of that order of men ought not to have any influence with them, nor ought the Saints to be disturbed in their spirit by such characters and their theories. The Church of Christ is with the Saints. It has committed to it the law of God — for its own government and perpetuation. It possesses every means for the correction of every wrong or abuse or error which may from time to time arise, and that without anarchy, or even revolution; it can do it by process of evolution — by development, by an increase of knowledge, wisdom, patience and charity (Improvement Era 10:942). NO INHERITANCES FOR SOME The remaining verses of Section 85 reaffirm, with emphasis, that the unfaithful members of the Church not having their names recorded in the book of the law will not obtain an inheri- 

63 JANUARY 1965

 tance, but their lot will be found among the unbelievers where there are wailing and gnashing of teeth. (Verses 9-11.) The consequences of disobedience are serious indeed when one considers the penalty imposed upon the children of the priest. (Ezra 2:61-63.) They shall be cut off from the ordinances of the house of the Lord, and from their fathers who are dead and who were faithful. The separation of fathers, mothers, and children in eternity with the loss of eternal life, is far more serious than some members of the Church are prone to consider. President Joseph F. Smith in discussing this matter was emphatic, as brought out in this lesson, that Section 85 not only has reference to the law of consecration but also to the law of tithing because it took. The place of the former law. (Conference Report, October 1899, page 42.) QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Tell what circumstances brought forth Section 85. 2. Why would you believe that letters can be scripture? 3. What relationship is there between the book of life and the book of the law? 4. Discuss: Section 85 is a commandment to observe the law of tithing. 5. What is the still small voice and who may enjoy its promptings? 6. What does the Lord say in Section 85 about the penalty of disobedience to his commandments?

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_01_04_Poem_Snow_at_Coles.txt) ===
have had some confusion, as you can understand, when a new program is announced, there is always some lack of comprehension in the beginning of any new program or plan. We try to explain with the best vocabulary we have, which is sometimes very limited; and then, unfortunately, the people who listen have a worse vocabulary to listen with than we have to talk with; and with that limited equipment we try to get across a few ideas. I have often said to the brethren that the all-important thing is not what we say at a.