[Vol1 | February 1914 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Architecture]

ARCHITECTURE. (Ten Minutes.) Though the California Bungalow has its admirers there are those who think it too sombre a style with its wide projecting eaves and porches for our mountain climate that is nearly half the year locked in frost.
Those who prefer a house open to the direct rays of sunshine will appreciate the new American style of architecture, for it seems to be the acme of simplicity.
Nothing is used except for necessity.
There is no lathe work; all lines are straight and simple.
14 To a Chicago architect, Frank Lloyd Wright, we are indebted for this, perhaps the greatest inspiration that has been sent forth in the interest of honest house building.
The foundation principle of the new American style is utility and when utility is wedded to beauty the union will result in the best art.
There is a demand for beauty in the architecture of the home, but if it is to become great art and really take hold of the imagination, the beautiful must be constructive, must be a part of the very stones, the foundation, the walls, the roof, the doors, windows and porches of the building.
There are three elements in house making that are sure to make or mar the beauty of a home, these are color, balance and proportions.
When you come to select building material the color must be selected.
You have an interesting field in which to choose.
The most expensive and best fire brick is full of mottled, beautiful tones.
Then there are red pressed brick and white pressed brick.
Cement, which may be any selected color, and frame, which permits the greatest scope for the exhibition of taste in color are the materials most often used.
Are the windows and doors too large or too small for your house?
Study the subject of balance in the December, 1913, Delineator.
Mr.
Wright has made his fame in the new American architecture by a skilfull use of the panel which he uses both in construction and detail of finish.
The panel is a vehicle well suited for revealing beautiful proportions, balance and color schemes.
Note the Young Woman's Journal, February, 1914.