[Vol1 | April 1914 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Tithing in the Relief Society]

TITHING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
If the statistics of the various quorums and auxiliary organizations in the Church could be segregated, we feel sure that the officers and members of the Relief Society would prove to be among the best and most faithful of tithe-payers.
Not tithe-payers who contribute the greatest amount individually, but tithe-payers who are both diligent and honest in their dealings with the Lord.
Women, as a rule, are less selfish, less grasping, and more willing to share their blessings with each other, and with the Lord, than men.
The seventy odd years of training which our beloved Relief Society sisters have received in charitable and philanthropic works, have so imbued them with the spirit of true devotion and unselfish principle that tithing is an easy law for them to observe.
There is, however, another duty that confronts the Relief Society workers in regard to this principle: it is not enough that we shall be tithe-payers ourselves, we must exercise all our powers in an endeavor to inculcate this principle in the minds of our children and grandchildren.
Even then, our duty does not cease.
We should encourage our husbands and our sons to be exact and scrupulous in the observance of this law. 4 Not by haranguing them, nor by nagging at them, for this policy will defeat the very end we are seeking to accomplish; but with loving tact and tender suggestion, coupled with constant prayer, we may help our husbands and our sons to keep the law.
Having done all this, dear sisters, our duty is not discharged completely, for we should teach this principle in our Relief Society meetings, through exchanging our experiences, reading the Scriptures, and discussing the principle.
Moreover, when the teachers visit the members, they may tactfully call attention to the observance of this principle by the housemother, and the children.
To be sure, it is unwise for the Society teachers to criticize in any way the conduct of the Priesthood, in the home, but they are surely at liberty to admonish and encourage the women to observe the laws of God.
Some women suppose that if their husbands and sons pay tithing, nothing is required of them, but the fact that our husbands and sons observe the Word of Wisdom, or keep holy the Sabbath day does not absolve us from obeying these laws.
If we have any source of income, such as the sale of eggs, butter, or milk if we earn anything, either on the farm or in the city, ; we are in duty bound to tithe our earnings.
Brigham Young once said to Sister Zina D.
Young, that he regretted the fact that he had always paid the tithing for his family, and added that if he had his life to live over again, he would arrange matters so that every wife and child should be permitted to pay a personal tithing.
Another fallacy is that some of our worthy poor, who are supported or assisted by the Relief Society or the Church, think they do not need to pay their tithing on what they thus receive.
These sisters, who are so supported, are as much in duty bound to tithe their income as other women in the Church.
A good widow who received ten dollars from the Church asked President Joseph F.
Smith if it was required of her to tithe that small charity fund.
He replied, most emphatically, in the affirmative; and this should be an example for all such cases.
For unless we pay tithing, our names do not appear on the Church tithing records, and if they do not appear, we are under condemnation according to the word of the Lord, as recorded in Sec. 119, Doc. and Cov.
Tithing is a principle with promise, and should be so considered and studied by the Relief Society.
Has any other principle resulted in greater rewards to the faithful than this particular law?
Sisters of the Relief Society, what are your opinions, and what are your practices in regard to tithing?
April