[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Mother Love Sophie Valentine]

Mother Love. By Sophy Valentine. I am a lawyer by profession. A short time ago I was called by distant relatives of a dear old client of mine, who had just died, to be administrator of her small estate. I had only known her about four or five years and not very intimately; but the few times I had had occasion to speak with her I had been impressed by the sweet, patient face, particularly by her eyes, that seemed to have something unearthly in them. I saw her almost daily, as I used to pass her house on the way to my office. She would sit by the window among a few potted flowers and look as if she were always waiting for someone. Her hair was white and her face was colorless; but I do not know why I thought her so very old, unless it was that she never seemed to one doing anything; but always sat looking as if waiting for someone I found, in looking over her papers, that she was only sixty five years old when she died, and among some documents, neatly put away, I found a diary which I read with much interest. I give here a few extracts from its pages, for they seemed even to me, a busy man, particularly pathetic. April 19.  It is springtime, the birds are singing; the trees are sprouting; the flowers are budding, and here within my heart is glorious springtime, too, and gladness  oh, such joy; for I, who was barren for twelve years, have been blessed above all that I dared to hope. A child is coming to our home: a son, perhaps, whom we can train to walk in the footsteps of his father  dear, good man  he is almost as happy as I am. Or  I whisper it softly, sweetly to myself and to God  a little girl! A little girl, with all the weaknesses of her poor, foolish mother; but still a woman like unto me; my very own flesh, that T can train to walk in the path that she should go. A little girl that I can love and cherish and cuddle and spoil and sing to and dress like the dearest little doll and"  . But I must stop. And then I begin and say it all over; and I sing from morning till night. August.  Full, ripe summer. My joy, my bliss is complete. Words fail me: for here in my arms, here at my heart, even while T write, is nestling an angel so sweet, so white, so beautiful! A little girl, so fresh from heaven that I feel the heavenly atmosphere about her. Oh, how can T tell those who do not know, the joy, the wonderful experience of motherhood! T am no longer an ordinary woman. I am a mother! I beam and smile on everybody and everything that comes near me. I kneel by my baby's cradle and look at her, and worship God through her. T devour her with kisses when she wakes. I sing to her the most beautiful songs. I never was a poetess before. I 
 sing to her of the wonderful life she is to have; the joy she is to bring to others; I sing of the joy she has brought me and her father; f sing of the glorious world has come to in which she has only given me the greatest happiness. Whatever has come of trials or disappointments, she was my comfort, my solace. May.  I am a widow now. but she fills the empty place, she soothes all aches and pains. For me ten years of such bliss  should I not be the most grateful being? Should 1 not take what  comes of sorrow uncomplainingly? Yet, a few mouths ago, when she was so ill and the doctors gave no hope, when she lay there burning with fever, I would not say, 'Thy will be done, oh, Father!" 1 cried, 1 pleaded and begged that he would be merciful and let me keep her. my flower, my heart see! and now I rejoice and sing again in the gladness of my heart, for God was merciful and let me keep her. October.  The leaves are falling; the flowers are gone; the trees stand empty and forlorn-looking, stretching their naked arms heavenward, as if beseeching for help against the coming storms. I, too, stand alone, stretching my arms toward heaven, pleading for help against the storm that T know is coming. For my child has gone  gone where her beauty and her love of flattery and finery led her into the whirlpool of worldly folly, and vanity. And the worms are gnawing at the roots of my white rose, and the winds of vice are tarnishing the delicate leaves. And T hold my arms out and beseech my sweet flower to come and nestle once more here at my heart, where it belongs. But my child laughs me to scorn, and she turns her listening ear to those who whisper idle, empty, flattering words that be mean her sweet womanhood. T see her each day drifting farther away from me and from God, and in the anguish of my heart, I lift my voice to God and beg Him to be merciful and take her. January.  Winter has spread her white winding sheet over the dark and ugly places and has made the world look so fair and white. They have laid my darling in a beautiful cradle once more; with silken covers and lace trimmed cushions. They have folded her hands on her breast; and her eyes are closed and her lips are cold. And on the white round cheeks rest the silken lashes it softly. And T nestle my head close to hers and whisper the same sweet names T called her twenty years ago. T kiss the lips that no more shall be tarnished by unholy and ungodly words. An 1 T throw my arms over her cradle, and once more she is close to the heart whose every beat was for her. And T weep for the long and lonely years that must be mine, when winter shall come and go while 1 wait for my rosebud's kiss once more. And I whisper my thanks to God, who was merciful and took her before she lost her womanly pearl of great price: she was vain and forgot God, but He has not forgotten her. T can still praise Him!