[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The New American Army Song (Music)]
artillery,  to  proceed  to  France  with  the  American  army.  Col. 
Young  is  one  of  the  ablest  artillery  officers  in  the  United  States, 
and  served  in  the  Spanish- American  war. 
Mammoth  reservoir  dam,  the  property  of  the  Price  River 
Irrigation  Company,  in  Gooseberry  Canyon,  Carbon  County, 
Utah,  went  out  in  the  latter  part  of  June,  doing  nearly  two  mil- 
lion dollars  damage,  chiefly  to  the  Denver  &  Rio  Grande  railroad 
tracks.  There  was  one  fatality,  Miss  Hattie  Peacock  being 
drowned  in  the  flood. 
Greece  now  has  a  new  king,  and  has  broken  off  relations 
with  the  German  government  and  its  allies.  Alexander,  the  pres- 
ent ruler,  is  second  son  of  King  Constantine,  who  was  compelled 
by  France  and  Great  Britain  to  abdicate.  This  purpose  of  the 
western  nations  of  Europe  to  get  rid  of  an  enemy  was  indicated 
in  this  Magazine  more  than  a  year  ago,  but  it  took  that  time  to 
accomplish  the  result  by  diplomacy  rather  than  by  warfare. 
Young  women  to  the  number  of  more  than  800  have  disap- 
peared mysteriously  from  New  York  within  the  past  year,  prob- 
ably to  be  carried  into  white  slavery  or  murdered,  and  the  police 
there  have  ignored  the  calls  of  relatives  for  search  so  persistently 
that  an  official  investigation  of  the  police  department  has  been 
ordered. 
National  food  control,  both  of  production  and  export, 
has  been  placed  in  the  hands  of  President  Wilson,  by  act  of 
Congress.  An  army  of  officials  and  employes  will  be  needed  to 
carry  on  the  work.

Home  Science  Department. 
Janetie  A.  Hyde. 
SAVE  EVERY  OUNCE  OF  BREAD. 
Who  has  been  guilty  of  wasting  bread?  Let  him  take  heed, 
lest  the  coming  season  find  him  wanting.  It  doesn't  seem  much 
of  a  waste  to  feed  to  the  chickens  and  house  pets,  a  few  ends  or 
crusts  of  bread,  yet  those  same  crusts  and  bread  ends  could  be 
browned  and  ground  up  for  family  use. 
In  conversation  with  a  very  thorough  business  man,  he  re- 
lated the  following  story :  Living  next  door  to  him  was  a  family 
of  five,  the  bread  winner,  or  father,  getting  $75  per  month,  and 
the  mother  working  two  days  a  week  to  help  maintain  the  family ; 
and  yet,  said  he,  they  send  to  us  at  the  week  end,  a  large  pan  of 
left-over  crusts  and  bread  to  be  fed  to  our  chickens. 
Then  he  remarked,  "No  wonder  people  are  sometimes  in  want 
when  they  throw  into  the  garbage  can  food  made  from  the  most 
expensive  farm  products,  and  especially  in  such  serious  times  as 
these."  He  also  told  of  a  lady  whom  he  knows  very  well  who 
gives  away  a  fifty-pound  flour  sack  of  stale  bread  every  week  to 
her  laundress.  And  think  of  it,  these  people  are  paying  from  $5 
to  $6  per  hundred  for  the  flour,  besides  the  other  ingredients 
contained  in  the  composition  of  the  bread,  to  say  nothing  of  the 
energy  required  in  its  preparation,  and  the  expense  of  the  heat 
required  to  bake  it.  Raw  material  would  answer  the  purpose  of 
food  for  the  chickens  better  than  the  stale  bread.  Another  well- 
known  gentleman  told  of  a  family  renting  from  him,  who  was 
found  entirely  without  floor.  He  gave  them  a  fifty-pound  sack