[Vol9 | September 1922 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: This is the Place Julia Dare]

"This is the place?drive on!" Here the Boy Scouts gave a flag raising ceremony and all stood at attention with heads bared while the band played "The Star Spangled Banner." The. Procession then moved on to Fort Douglas where, with the cars surrounding the broad parade ground, an enjoyable series of military maneuvers was executed by the troops of the garrison under command of Gen. McAlexander, whose chivalry and courtesy helped in many ways to make the celebration a success. From the Fort the column proceeded to Liberty Park, past the old Chase home and mill, and, the pioneers being seated in front of the pavilion, they witnessed a pantomime and program given by the M. I. A. Of Ensign Stake, in which descendants of prominent pioneers in the costumes of their fathers and 'mothers, danced old-fashioned dances and presented the episode of he "Pioneers and the Flag." Joseph J. Cannon in a very striking make-up representing his father, Presiden George Q. Cannon, introduced the different characters to the audience, and as Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, John Taylor, Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow, Wilford Woodruff, Porter Rockwell and others, with their ladies, in the persons of their posterity, came forward and bowed, it was like a living page from the past. The old "Cedar Tree" was the next point to be visited, and here a girls' chorus, let by Miss Margaret Summerhays, sang "Utah, the Queen of the West," and other songs as the cars passed by. The "Cedar Tree" now covered with vines, stands in the parking at the intersection of Sixth East and Third South streets. In its original location, a few rods from where it now stands, it was one of the few cedar trees in the entire valley, and it became a familiar land-mark to direct the emigrant trains toward the old pioneer camping grounds. After the exercises at the "Tree," "he procession moved to the City and County Building, which adorns the block once known as Emigration Square; and thence'to Pioneer Park, the site of the Old Fort, where the first rude homes of mud and logs were made, and where, in the first year, the first school in Utah was opened. This episode of the first school was here depicted. During the ride to this point  o'her spots of historic interest were pointed out, such as the location of the first camp near the intersection of State and Third South Streets, the site of the first theatre, (the old Social Hall) the Lion and Bee-Hive houses, he Eagle Gate, the Historian's Office which was so long the home of Prest. George A. Smith, and other places. Through the Eagle Gate the procession made its way to the magnificent State Capitol, where the auto ride ended, and the guests, under the loving ministration of the Daughters of the Pioneers, were afforded a few hours for rest and social intercourse. If the drive itself had been thoroughly enjoyable. In DESCENDANTS OF THE ORIGINAL BAND OF PIONEERS, 1847, DANCING THE VARSOUVIENNE IN COSTUME calling forth many reminiscences and exchanges of memories and experiences among the veterans, the arrangements at the Capitol were no less thoughtful and welcome. A fine luncheon was served, and easy chairs and lounges were everywhere in evidence; and the "Daughters" were untiring in showing and explaining their collection of pioneer relics. Here also the honored visitors had a splendid opportunity to visit and renew acquaintances, and many were the expressions of pleasute as friend met friend and re-lived in memory's hall the scenes of long ago. The ride to Saltair and the grand entertainment afforded there by the committee and the Saltair management was a fitting and apropriate ending for the three days' entertainment. Conveyed o the station and thence to the Lake pavilion in special cars, the guests were somewhat surprised on arriving at the beach to hear a salvo of artillery, but were reasured upon learning that THE PIONEER JUBILEE "461 it was unly a salute fired in their honor by United States troops. Thes? troops, members of the 38th infantry, stood at attention as the p'oneers passed from the train to the pavilion, and little girls dressed in white passed among the guests, presenting each one with a white carnation. The dance floor was quickly cleared, and young people of the present generation stood 'reverently by while the aged visitors indulged in old time quadrilles, the '"Varsouvienne" and other figures of a former day. A fine concert was rendered by Professor Sweeten's band?an incident of which was the presence among the musicians of three generations of the Sweeten family, the director, his father, and his grandfather, the latter being one of the pioneer guests. The concluding feature of the day's activities was a sumptuous banquet in the Ship Cafe. During the dinner a musical and vaudeville entertainment was given, after which short addresses were given by Mrs. Flora B. Horne, the Rev. J. E. Carver and President Heber J. Grant, Dr. Richard R. Lyman was toastmaster, and in his opening remarks he not only paid high tribute to the. Pioneers, But praised the organization of the Daughters of the Pioneers to whose efforts so much of the success of the celebration was due. The Rev. Mr. Carver was particularly eloquent in praise of the labors, and especially the faith, of the pioneers, emphasizing the fact that faith was the one great message they had given to the world. A sham battle and a display of fireworks on the Lake terminated the