Editorial / Welcome
The Call "We would like you to be...." How many times these words are spoken in the Church! Sometimes they bring a sense of fulfillment to the one being addressed. Sometimes a feeling almost of panic, but always an awareness of one's personal inadequacies and a deep response of humility are present. When one recognizes that the priesthood who do the calling are inspired of the Lord, it is no wonder that the usual mental response is, "Oh, how can I do that? Oh, why did they ask me?" Yet the verbal negative responses are extremely rare because of the recognition of authority and the principle of obedience to that authority. Usually in calling a sister to an office in Relief Society her talents and capabilities are observed and she is recommended for the particular strengths she possesses which apply to the particular office to which she is called. That is not always the case, however, and hence the sense of panic which may possess a woman when she feels inadequate for a calling.

If she feels capable, there will not be much doubt in her mind but that she will accept the calling, other things being favorable; but if she feels poorly prepared and inadequate, then she should give the most careful attention to her own ability to fulfill it. In the first place, she knows that the calling has come from the Lord through his priesthood. Her Heavenly Father is seeking her progress, she knows, and so it may be the potential to which he is looking.

A noteworthy example is a sister who was called to be homemaking leader who had never sewed in her life. Her feelings were almost indescribable, but she believed in obedience to authority and inspiration, so she sat down seriously to consider how she could ever accept the calling. First thing she enrolled in a dressmaking class and she studied, observed, and practiced other homemaking skills. She found that she developed a great liking for those skills and today she stands out as a most efficient homemaker, also well known for her capability as a homemaking leader. Her family life has become more meaningful and systematized.

Another sister was called to be a cultural refinement class leader. She had not had a college education and felt unfitted for her calling, but relying on the help of the Lord she began to study and turned her attention to the arts. Her activities resulted in a change of attitude and living on her part which has greatly enriched her own life and that of her family and home surroundings.

Basic to the acceptance of a call is a belief that if one does her best, the spirit of the Lord will guide and sustain her. A woman must go forward in faith. She should not make apologies nor excuses before the sisters as to her weaknesses, as that may cast reflection on the ones who called her; but she must go forward humbly and prayerfully. She was not given the calling to fail but to succeed. She has also been given the authority to fulfill her calling, so she must succeed.

Each soul is precious in the sight of the Lord and he gives to each of his daughters the opportunity to progress on to perfection. Great growth and development in different fields come to an individual as she fulfills her callings in Relief Society. Through her close association with other officers and members, lasting friendships are made in the loving bonds of sisterhood, associations of an enduring nature.

To paraphrase a well-known phrase, "Welcome the call that makes you go beyond yourself."

M. C. S. Leone