If we failed
TRIBUTES TO CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
or partially failed, Sister Williams sympathized, encouraged, and sent us forth again, with a buoyant confidence that we could make good. In our minds there was never any doubt or question as to the justice of her decisions. Even when they were against us we felt that they were right. My debt of gratitude to her can never be repaid; she inspired me to live my better-self.
By Cora L. Bennion
SISTER Clarissa Smith Williams was an outstanding example of the two great principles of religion—love of God and love of humanity. Her heart was full of unfailing love for all mankind. Her unselfish devotion to the Church and to the work of the Relief Society was and still is a constant inspiration to those engaged in this great cause.
In her nature, Sister Williams was deeply spiritual. Devoted to truth and right, she was yet slow to condemn offenders. Her attitude toward them was that of charity. Always ready to forgive, she would pray for those who were in need of moral and spiritual strength. She was socially intelligent, refined and gentle in manner, yet humble as a little child. It was a real privilege to have an intimate association with Sister Williams. To be in her presence was an inspiration. She made us feel that we wanted to do our part and do it well. We will always cherish her memory.
By Amy W. Evans
TO me one of the outstanding characteristics of Clarissa S. Williams was her public-spiritedness, her vision of usefulness to others. This is to be seen in all she did toward building up our communities in health, education, and in spirituality. During her presidency of the Relief Society, funds were set aside in honor of those who had served at the head of the organization. These were all "living monuments," as she herself used to say. They served a useful purpose,—to encourage the writing of poetry among our women, to aid young women to become nurses, to do Temple work for the dead, to help girls to receive an education, to aid young women to train as public health nurses and social workers. Through her influence the wheat interest fund is being used to promote and insure the health of women and children throughout our Church. She always sought service in the forward-looking larger way. The bread she cast upon the waters will return every day forever.
By Ethel R. Smith
TRULY in the face of one's holiest feelings we are mute. Words cannot be found to express my love and admiration for Clarissa Smith Williams, and the joy and happiness that came into my life through knowing and associating with her. Before becoming a member of the General Board, I had known Sister Williams only as a charming, gracious, distant relative of my husband's family; had learned also somewhat of her accomplishments. However it was not until I
became intimately associated with her that I began to realize her worth. Sister Williams' love for her fellow workers, and her desire to show her love, made each member of her board rejoice in the possession of her confidence and friendship. Each Wednesday afternoon, the time when the board meetings were held, became an event looked forward to, and each opportunity to be with her
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was a choice and happy experience. Each time we left her presence, we left filled with inspiration to become better, nobler women. Her dignity, fearlessness, wisdom, justice, and her tender, impartial love made her co-workers ardently desire the opportunity to serve her. Her passing has left sorrow in our hearts, a void in our lives, but also a beautiful, loving memory of a noble woman.
By Rosannah C. Irvine
WOMANHOOD and the Cause. These are two great things to be thankful for in the life of Clarissa Smith Williams. True womanhood and the cause of truth she upheld throughout her life. Far better than a shaft of marble or mausoleum of stone in commemoration of her deeds, is the love of sixty thousand women, on whose hearts is engraved, in tender reverence, this name: "Our President."
Unlike many whose lives are cast in pleasant places, Sister Williams did not grow weak and vacillating, but developed and retained the stalwart, invincible character which was her heritage. Her greatness was shown, not only in holding the hearts of her people with diplomacy and discretion, but in yielding graciously to what she acknowledged a higher authority than her own, even in the frustration of her fondest hopes. She sometimes met with opposition—what great soul does not?—but she accepted counsel or criticism as calmly and serenely as she accepted the affectionate regard of thousands. The power to attract love and devotion is the result of the ability to see and appreciate in others what is good and beautiful. Sister Williams had this rare gift. A happiness to have known her, a privilege to have been her friend, it is a blessing to have been permitted to work with her in the Cause she loved so well.
By Alice L. Reynolds
IT often becomes part of a leader's work to direct leaders. This is eminently true of the General Board of the Relief Society, with a membership of many women who formerly were at the head of Stake Boards. In the field of statecraft, many men have failed because they could not lead leaders. In this very thing, Clarissa Smith Williams was extraordinarily successful. The spirit of appreciation for those working with her radiated from her as warmth radiates from the sun, and as a consequence harmony prevailed. She presented her problems in a way that made appeal and brought at once to their support the efforts of a united Board. She had the gift of making those associated with her feel that she was genuinely interested in them and in the particular piece of work that they were striving to have succeed. She lived above the petty and sordid things of life, and inspired nobility in others. Her
TRIBUTES TO CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
life was such as to suggest James Russell Lowell's tribute: "Earth's noblest thing, a Woman perfected." She was one of the most magnanimous women it has been my good fortune to know. An outstanding example of her magnanimity is seen in the fact that she established memorials to each of her predecessors, and that these memorials have in them the possibility of great good and benefit for others.
By Nettie D. Bradford
THOSE loved her most who knew her best. When I was a child, we lived on the same block with her in Salt Lake City; her mother was our Relief Society teacher. Her home life was ideal; her love for her good husband, her devotion to her family, was to me an inspiration. My first calling to Relief Society in a stake capacity was under her stake presidency; and it is pleasant to recall committee meetings in her home. Her daughters were most gracious to their mother's guests. A natural-born leader, she inspired in us confidence in our own abilities. She presided as stake president with the same kindly dignity that characterized her in the office of General President. Yet her dignity was no barrier to approach, when one sought help from her, neither was it alloyed with aloofness, for she remained her genuine self amidst her wonderful successes. Solicitous of the welfare of her board on their visits to the stakes, and attentive to reports when they returned, she respected our opinions, gave advice with perfect frankness, and thus commanded deep respect from her co-workers. She was wise in hearing and in weighing evidence before rendering decisions; but when rendered they were final. I esteem it a great privilege to have labored under her, for she meant so much to me.
By Elise B. Alder
OUR beloved and noble leader is gone. We have lost one of our greatest women. Referring to her birth, we find her descending from the same noble family that gave to the world the prophet Joseph Smith. Looking back upon the years of her past life, we find her ever valiant in Relief Society work—she has been connected with its every phase. George Eliot says: "The reward of one duty is the power to fulfil another;" and she has climbed the ladder step by step until the top in honor has been reached—that of the highest calling of woman in our Church, the president of the Woman's National Relief Society.
During her administration in this high calling, her chief concern, aside from her constant endeavor to be considerate of her co-workers, was a sincere desire to better the world by protecting the health of women and children. As we Board members travel through various stakes, brought vividly to our notice are the many hearts that have been filled with gratitude for the benefits they enjoy from her efforts in preventive and corrective welfare work. She has bequeathed to her Church a character that is a subject of admiration and gratitude.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
By Inez K. Allen
AS a counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells in her declining years, Sister Williams was loyal, wise, and kind. As General Relief Society President, her very expression met response within me (then a Stake Relief Society President) that she was inspired by the wisdom of God, both as to content and manner of expression. Her attitude seemed that of a great mother. She was progressive, the Social service system which she inaugurated standing as a light on a hill for all the Relief Society. Because some women and little children suffered and died each year from lack of necessary care, her heart was touched; so when she called upon the Relief Society officers to direct the interest on the wheat fund for the health of women and children, there was not a dissenting vote.
As President of the Board, she was always gracious, considered well her utterances, was humble yet dignified. She enjoyed good humor, was sincere, and her hospitality was generous and charming. Lest the Relief Society should in any way suffer because of her failing health, she manifested courage when she asked to be released from the highest position any woman can hold in the Church. From my first association to the parting hour, she constantly rose higher and higher. Her last simple request that the board members give Sister Robison the same support they gave to her was sublime. Is it any wonder I love her?
By Ida Peterson Beal
THE sands of time in the hour glass of a noble life have run out, and dear Sister Clarissa S. Williams is with us no more. In her passing she is sincerely mourned and missed by the women of the Church, to whom she has given so abundantly of her time and energy. To them she has left a legacy more valuable than riches. Her life was a daily example of her teachings—"true worth is in being, not in seeming."
Sister Williams was richly endowed by nature with a remarkable mind. She was an eager student always, maintaining "that one is never too old to learn." Leadership was one of her outstanding qualifications, amply manifested in her labors as president of the Relief Society. The secret of her marvelous success has been her vision and devotion to duty. Simply, directly, tenderly, yet efficiently, she administered the affairs of this great organization. She did not misread the responsibility of her great calling, but with patience and humility her constant anxiety was how she could best help and serve those who were beset with sorrow and suffering. Lives have been enriched and ennobled by coming in contact with this good woman. Generously she gave of her great love, and in rich measure love came back to her.