[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	DECEMBER 15, 1890. | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	DECEMBER 15, 1890.


[Column 1]﻿
CHRISTMAS—PEACE AND GOOD-WILL.
	Christmas time always brings up old memories
and associations, recalls home and childhood and
those with whom we have mingled in former days.
The tenderest feelings and emotions are
awakened and benevolence, peace and good-will
towards all mankind takes possession of us for
the time being at least; and the higher and better
attributes and qualities of the soul are brought
out in enlarged charity and gentler kindness;
those whom Providence has smiled upon munifi-
cently make grateful acknowledgements of divine
favor by bestowing upon others, their friends and
neighbors, gifts; and temporal blessings upon the
poor and unfortunate. But after all how much of
the charity St. Paul speaks of in the New Testa-
ment do we exercise; the charity that surpasses
all else, that suffereth long and is kind, that is
greater than bestowing all one’s goods to feed
the poor, that must indeed be pure love of one’s
fellow men, devoid of envy, jealousy,or a hope of
reward; the love that our Savior manifested when
He gave Himself a ransom for all mankind, to
redeem the world, not for His own glory but un-
selfishly to do the will of His Father.
	Is there any other day in all the year that calls
to mind such generous impulses, and gives to the
individual believer in the babe of Bethlehem,such
longings to be like unto Him who when He was
reviled, reviled not again, and who bore with
meekness and patience all crosses and sorrows
even suffering an ignominious death with those
sublime words upon his dying lips, that have
reached through the ages down, to our day.
Father forgive them for they know not what they
do?”
While we profess to be His followers shall we not
in some degree attempt to reach this high
standard of greatness and excellence by some act
of forgiveness, or sublime charity more than giv-
ing good gifts to those from whom we receive in
return. Is not this what we try to do to satisfy
our own consciences? Do we go into the high-
ways and byways and seek out the poor and
the suffering, and minister unto them as He did
whose example we should imitate in as much as
the human can emulate the infinite. Humility in
its perfection characterized the life of Christ, and
yet those who have taken upon themselves
His name are full of pride and arrogance despis-
ing those who are not in possession of wealth or
culture, and passing them by on the other side
as the Levite did the poor man who fell among
thieves, but we should be at any rate once in a
year at Christmas time like the good Samaritan;
who bound up the wounds and ministered to the
comfort of the poor man.
	New resolves concerning our acts ot kindness
to others, or even of generosity is not all; it is
not enough that we give our goods to feed the
poor, or even offer up what we consider a great

[Column 2]
sacrifice, nor that we forgive those who have
traspassed against us, if we would be accepted of
our Father in heaven, but cultivate that love to-
wards our fellow men that our Savior had, and
live at all times according to the light and
knowledge we have received, for it was said by
one of old “Obedience is better than sacrifice.”
	We should be joyful at Christmas time for the
sake of the children, if not our own, and even if
burdens oppress us or griefs have overtaken us
lay them aside for the time being and contribute
in some measure to the enjoyment of others. It
is pleasant to see the great gatherings of large
families, and it is an especial delight to watch
the children’s exuberance and gaiety on the ad-
vent of Santa Claus, and the good dinners that
are always an adjunct of the occasion.
	Children enjoy giving and it is a happy manner
of teaching the principle of charity to the little
ones, to allow them to give from their own portion
of toys or luxuries, to those who have less of the
good things of this life.
	Children’s impressions are deep-seated and
strong and often follow them through life, and
perhaps there is not a day that fastens itself
more closely upon the heart and remembrance,
and to which the child when grown to manhood
turns with greater affection than Christmas day
at the old home, whether he goes out into the
world alone, or travels the raging main, on sea
or land wherever he may be, when the blessed
Christmas time comes he invariably recalls the
incidents of home life.
	It is in every sense of the word a red letter
day to all who have ever known the blessing of
a real home and its benign and sanctifying in-
fluence. It throws a halo around the future life
of those who in childhood have partaken of its
joys and pleasures, and participated in the festivi-
ties of these holiday occasions. The middle-aged
and aged all, all classes, all races one might say
share in the general enjoyment and are anxious
to promote the happiness of family and friends
on this day of days. The bells are expressive
of the joy and contentment that floats over the
land and Christmas bells, ring on through hte
coming ages of time the peace and good-will,
that nerve the hosts of men and women to braver
and nobler deeds in the living of their own lives
and serving of their fellowmen.


[Column 1]
