[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have on hand Relief Society reports
from several of the Stakes of Zion, but have
postponed publishing them until after the holi-
days to make room for more interesting matter.
"Lost and Found" a story by Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh will be very much better reading and
more suitable for the holiday time than R. S.
Reports or local matters. Mrs. Greenhalgh is a
very versatile,and entertaining, as well as a gifted
writer.
	The Office of the Juvenile Instructor, is just
over the way and every time we look out,it greets
us pleasantly its windows are full of novelties in
the way of toys and books for the children's
Christmas and Santa Claus must have brought
many a heavy load with his reindeers if he sup-
plied the store with these articles. Dolls and
toys in great variety and dolls housekeeping sets,
bedsteads, cradles, baby carriages for dolls and
tables, cupboards, and sideboards, dishes, and
furnishings complete. Cards and and booklets in
new and pretty designs and cheap too, and books
both at wholesale and retail as well as stationery.
The Juvenile Office makes a business of supply-
ing Sunday School Superintendents with books
etc. There is scarcely anything in this line of
goods that this house does not carry. They order
books from the best Eastern dealers, as well as
publish home literature. It is a good place to
[Column 2]
make selections from not only for Christmas pres-
ents, but books for winter evening's at home or
for libraries public or private.

	C. R. Savage at the Art Gallery on Main St.
makes a specialty of pictures, and he displays ex-
cellent taste in his selections and in the art of
photography he excels particularly in scenery.
He keeps an immense stock of this class of
goods and his windows give one a pretty correct
idea of what can be found inside, and has a
variety from which to choose of every style.
He also advertises games of all kinds and prices,
and these quiet pastimes for chi[-]dren and others
as well who are older, serve to while away a
tedious hour when one is tired of work and needs
recreation as well as rest. This establishment
keeps a large and complete line of art supplies
for painting on china, glass, cardboard, canvas,
bolting cloth, satin, velvet, plush etc. In fact the
proprietor has done a great deal in this way to
encourage art and artists. Books in great variety
are also found in Savage's store and numerous
toys and novelties in this line for the holidays.

	Duncan Mc'Allister and Co. have spared no
pains in arranging their Christmas goods and they
have succeeded admirably. They have what might
be termed Christmas itself in the show windows;
there is the old fashioned fireplace with a fire
burning at night—looks like pine knots though,
instead of yule logs, but the blaze is as blue as
that of a Christmas plum pudding, everything is
like a Christmas eve, the little stockings and the
big ones are hung up and Santa Claus himself is
looking in at the window, as if he were waiting
his opportunity to slip in unnoticed. But
McAllister’s windows are not the only attraction
step inside and see what an immense variety of
toys and fancy goods he has,books and magazines
etc., and up stairs the finest goods are arranged
in the most artistic manner possible for the size of
the apartment, here are the most exquisite ban-
ners and hand painted placques and china illus-
trated books booklets and calendars with a
variety of other things too numerous to mention
but go and see.

	The Children's book by Augusta Joyce
Crocheron mentioned in our last issue has been
carefully reviewed and we feel perfectly justified
in recommending it to the people as just what is
needed for the little folks in Zion. It has been
written with a desire to instruct and edify the
reader, and to entertain at the same time. The
author is a mother herself and knows what
pleases the children and has prepared this work
to meet the demand of the rising generation for
a work suited to the times and to their situation
as the children of the Saints, with a thirst for
knowledge that will benefit them as well as to be
interesting to the youthful mind. The book is
illustrated and contains both prose and poetry
suited to the intelligence and capacity of children.
It is in every sense of the word what its title indi-
cates, "The Children's Book," price $1,50 for sale
here and at the Woman's Co-operative Mercantile
and Manufacturing Institution.
	We have received an elegant Calendar from
"The Woman's Literary Club, Dunkirk N. Y."
printed in Buffalo. It is published on fine heavy
paper with handsome rough cover,on the outside
of which the picture of Sappho is stamped
and a pretty monogram on the back W. L. C. It
contains some tinted photogravures, that are
quite in keeping with the style of the book, and
sentiments, verses and maxims from the most
celebrated women poets and writers. On the fly
leaf is the quotation from Sappho: "Come now
divine shell, become vocal for me," and following
that is the picture of Sappho in her flowing ap-
parel with a veil thrown gracefully over her head,
the sea shell in her hand, as if it were a talisman
or could breathe forth an inspiration. Among


the pictures is one of the house of Maria
Mitchell the astronomer, from the roof of which
she discovered the comet that first brought her
fame. One of the pictures is the parlor in H. H.'s
home. The home of Madame DeStael at Coppet
is another. Each paragraph contains a moral or
maxim that is worth committing to memory. One
or two may give an idea of the value of these
short sentences. People think they know them-
selves because they are untried. Frederika
Bremer. Work; work, this is my unfailing cure
for all troubles. Lydia Maria Child. Duty only
frowns when you flee from it; follow it, and it
smiles upon you. Carmen Sylva. Wars are or-
ganized mobs. Clara Barton. Show me the
mothers of a country and I will tell you of its sons,
Mary Seymour Howell. The ideal of woman
cannot be lowered without that of manhood
suffering also. Ednah D. Cheney. I do not see
how we are to govern others unless we first learn
to govern ourselves. St. Catharine of Siena.
Gossip pretending to have the eyes of an Argus,
has all the blindness of a bat. Ouida. The
Calendar contains 24 pages of reading matter, all
rich with gems of thought.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


