TRUE VALUE.

	What is truly valuable, or in other words,
what is of the most value to us? Some ap-
preciate those friends who have the most
money, because in the hour of need they
would benefit them, which is sometimes the
case, but not always. Did you ever see a
person who could not use all the money he
had, and more if he had it? Accordingly
people are not always charitable; for business
is business and must be attended to, at the
proper time; and the old adage is “Charity
begins at home.” We should learn from
this that it is well to become acquainted with
the business affairs of life while life lasts.
But knowing as we do, that life is short at
the best, we often cast a longing eye on the
other side, and ask ourselves, “How will we
find matters there?” and “What pursuit is
best calculated to prepare us for our exit to
the next state of existence?”
	We are told by our forefathers, both in the


Bible and Book of Mormon, that sound
principle, a pure life, and honorable dealings
with our fellows, is the right course to take
while we are here; as this course of life will
bring to us happiness both here and hereafter.
We are told that God made man in his own
image, and he possesses of His attributes.
	We can see readily that this is the reason
that persons who are upright, honorable and
true, are looked upon as being God-
like, and are deserving of our reverence and
respect. We have confidence in their word,
believing they will do as they wish to be
done by under like circumstances.
	This class of people I feel to call the
nobility of the earth. They may live in a
log house with a dirt roof, as I have found
them under pressing circumstances, yet they
were the true nobility of the earth, because
the principles they cherished, and the sacri-
fices they would make to aid and help the
oppressed, drew forth my love and admiration
for them; knowing that God our Father
claimed them as His own; for surely these
were God like principles.
	Is not this true riches, and of greater value
than all the precious metals combined? Yet,
if a person may possess both it is well, provid-
ing he has that spirit which giveth wisdom,
and enables him to be a wise steward.
	Is not this spirit then of the greatest value,
for without it, he is liable to misuse and
abuse these blessings, so that they even prove
a curse instead of a blessing, by yielding to
temptation, and then to folly, and finally to
crime.
	I think every thoughtful and reflecting
mind can see this clearly, and will eventually
know how to choose, and how to conduct
themselves, especially if we ask aid of this
good spirit, for we surely have help in our
upward course to heaven, and again in the
downward course; there is help in either
position.				M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 16th.


