A TRIBUTE TO "GRANDMA SMITH:"

	Mrs. May M. Smith, was born Aug., 24th, in 
the year 1804, at Crieff, Perthshire Scotland. 
Died of old age on the 15th, June 1889, in Beaver
City, Beaver Co., Utah, aged 84years, 9 months
and 22 days. 
	She has lived the life of a true, sincere Latter-
day Saint, since joining the Church in her native 
land in 1854.  She came to Utah with the Hand-
cart company in 1856; suffering the want, priva-
tion and hardships, incident to that long, tedious, 
never to be forgotten journey, without a complaint. 
Encouraging friends and her dear ones all the way 
(she was then a widow with six children,) never 
losing faith in the goodness and mercies of 
Heaven and trusting implicitly in God for aid and 
protection through every affliction in life.  
	To me, from early childhood, she has been or
seemed,a very remarkable woman, one of nature's 
noblest models.  Being endowed with superior 
intelligence and having acquired knowledge that 
few with her advantages have attained.  She was 
a woman of unbounded faith and unimpaired prin-
ciple, humble and charitable in the most minute 
extent.  She was a thorough logician, a historian 
in the scriptures and biographies of great men 
countries and people.  Being a constant, intelli-
gent reader, and an honest, earnest thinker; she 
was a pleasent, agreeable conversationalist a just 
and noble friend.  
	"Grandma Smith," as she was lovingly and 
familiarly known in our City, has for the past ten 
years made her home in my father's house with 
her daughter, May B. Murdock; and up 'til within 
the last year, could read and write with a clearness 
and beauty, that few middle-aged people display. 
When she became stone blind her strength of 
character, her grandness of soul became most ap-
parent; that purity and excellence which is the 
birthright of the truly good man or woman here 
showed in all its simplicity, yet doubly great for 
'twas of an ethereal, intrinsic quality.  Not a single 
murmur escaped her at this last calamity, she 
meekly bowed to the will of One "who doeth all 
things well."  When I once said to her "grandma 
'tis too bad that you are deprived of your sight 
when 'twas so great a pleasure for you to read and 
write."  She replied "no Julia, God knows best 
and He has always been merciful and kind to me 
and mine, therefore, I will cheerfully and patiently 
bide His time 'til He calls me home." 
	She was at the Manti Temple last September 
with all her children, and had satisfactorily 
finished her work in the House of the Lord.  She 
was sick but eight hours, died as it were going to 
sleep.  She leaves one son Robert Bain, Smith-
field, Cache Co., May B. Murdock, Beaver, Beaver
Co., Mary S. Anderson, Rexburg, Idaho; Jane S. 
Coleman and Betsy S. Goodwin, Rabbit Valley,


Sevier Co., Utah.  All are true Latter-day Saints,
worthy representatives of a genuine mother, and
a just reward for the indefatigable efforts and
teachings of that grand old lady, whom all will
miss, yet, none mourn, for we know her rest is
peaceful and her mission well and nobly finished.
		Affectionately,
					J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
	Frisco, Beaver Co., Utah June 22nd, 1889.
Logan Journal please copy.


