EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	On June 22nd, 1889, according to a call made
by a number of the prominent women, of the Co.,
a Mass Meeting was held at Morgan City school
house, for the purpose of organizing a branch
of the Woman Suffrage Association.
	On motion Mrs. Lydia Rich was appointed
Chairman, Miss Delia Smith, Secretary and Mrs.
E. Worlton, Chaplain.  Prayer was offered by the
chaplain, when Mrs. L. Rich stated the business
of the Meeting, and referred to the struggles that
have been and are still being made by our sister
women of the nation.  Said it was strictly a politi
cal movement and all are invited to join in peti-
tioning for our rights. The following women were
then unanimously sustained as officers of the as-
sociation.
	Mrs. H. C. Smith, President; Mrs. E. C. E.
Francis, first Vice-President; Mrs. Cleveland,
second Vice-President; (with Mrs,Addie Hunter
alternate providing she will not act as she was not
present at the meeting,) Mrs. Mary Ann Edding-
ton, third Vice-president. 
	Miss Delia Smith was sustained as permanent
Secretary; Miss Lovenia Francis, Corresponding
Secretary; Mrs. Jeanetta Hogg, Treasurer.
	The following women were then sustained as
an Executive Committe:  Mrs. Emma Clark,
Mrs. E. Wild, Mrs. Avilda Dickson, Mrs. Jane
Brough, Mrs. Louise Carigan, Mrs.Lena Edholm,
Mrs. Sarah Wardley.
	The Constitution of the N. W. S. A. was read
by the Secretary and adopted.  The By-Laws and
Regulations that were adopted in Salt Lake City
by the Utah W. S. A. were then read by sections
and adopted with one amendment viz. The By-
Laws and Regulations of the Morgan Co., Asso-
ciation.
	The organization having been effected the
Chairman announced that speeches would be in
order.
	Mrs. Smith being called responded in a short
address.  Thanked the ladies for the honor they
had conferred upon her, and hoped to be able to
retain their confidence.  Her heart was enlisted
in the Woman’s cause, never could see why wo-
men should be subject to laws she had no hand
in making, nor ruled over by those not of her
choice, that men and women should work together
politically as well as religiously and socially, said
there was a wide field in which women could be
profitably employed,thought they could materially
aid in correcting many of the evils of the day.
	Mrs. E. C. E. Francis then being called made
some very interesting and pointed remarks con-
cerning the object of the organization. Thought
the women had never abused the right of suffrage
and thought its being taken from them a great in-
justice &c.  There were several speeches made
and meeting was brought to a close, prayer by
Chaplain.
