				FOLKS.

The dawn of life's morn, has long passed away
To the true, honored, veterans assembled to-day; 
Their sun is fast setting, in splendor to rise, 
In a far brighter land amid sunnier skies. 

Their springtime and summer, are now with the past, 
Both autumn and winter, approaching them fast; 
And the lonely still hours of life's closing day, 
Should surely be brightened with a kind, loving ray. 

O, then let us bless them, while they are here, 
Before they have passed to the other sphere; 
For they've borne the burden and heat of the day, 
In the conflict of life, their locks have turned grey. 

They've labored and toiled, in this once barren place, 
Built cities and towns that our valleys now grace; 
They've conquered the Desert, and made it to bloom
As Nature's sweet garden, in richest perfume.

They've stem'd the swift tides, when the billows rolled
	high
That crushed other barges in weakness, to die. 
Their path has been strewn with the briar and thorn, 
That leave sad traces of what they have borne. 

They've travel'd life's journey, almost to the end, 
Let us cheer their lone hearts as they slowly ascend, 
And bid the kind Angel to watch them with care, 
And tenderly guard, each silvery hair. 

For lonely 'twould be, were we sadly, bereft
Of the dear OLD FOLKS, and none of them left
To guide and direct, the wav'ring youth, 
In the pathway of virtue, of love, and of truth. 

O, treat them with kindness, and never once slight, 
Their gentle tones whispering, "do what is right."
Their words, we'll remember in some future day, 
When, one by one, they have all passed away. 

And let us remember, that we must all tread, 
The same path, traveled by the hoary head, 
And then shall we feel December's, cold breath, 
As we hasten towards the portals of death. 

May they who have parted with life's dearest friend, 
And are left with God only, on whom to depend, 
Find solace and comfort, in each lonely hour, 
For the most brilliant sunbeams follow the shower,

And may heaven bless the dear aged ones,
His noble daughters, and His loyal sons, 
And lengthen their days until life has no charm, 
Then bear them home safely, to rest from all harm. 
										A. C.


