MY DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I linger in this beautiful place after my pleasant
task is done, to thank you for sending me Nov., 
1st, 1888, of the EXPONENT, I appreciate not only
your candid outspoken reference in relation to 
the book "Reminicenses of the Latter-day Saints,"
referred to during our transit from Provo to Salt
Lake, but I appreciate very much lines written on
"Trials and happiness," by E. B. W.  As well as 
those written by O. F. Whitney to his friend
Hebe, they find an echo in the soul and will be
placed among my choice secelections. 
	My enjoyment was marred at the Provo Con-
ference by being called out to attend to some
special business and then again to take the Train. 
Oh the changes a few years have wrought, the
many faithful Veterans of a few years ago who
have been called hence leave a fearful vacuum. 
Among the number, Ma Smoot, Sister Emily
Smoot, Sister Ruia Holden, Sister Margaret Cluff, 
Sister Jane Gee, and Sister Hester Beebee, and
yet the various institutions and societies of which
they were active members, move on in the hands
of other faithful ones, who have been called to fill
their places, Sister John with her Counselors M. 
E. Daniels and Sister Emily G. Cluff, now repre-
sent the Presidency of Utah County, Sister
Caroline Daniels, the faithful Secretary. Eleven
years have passed since she was appointed, hav-


ing never been absent from her post except once, 
although her health is now, and has been during
the past winter, very poor, still her indomitable
energy urged her out to fill her place, too feeble 
though she was, to go through entirely, she mani-
fested her interest in the work by her presence.  
	I now wear silk manufactured by the irre-
pressible Sister Beebee and her aids.  
	Sister M. A. Till and Sister Goodman with 
Sister Saunders and others whose names do not 
now occur to me, are still interested in that 
branch of industry.  I see Father Graves is still 
deeply interested, would have liked very much to 
have heard him through his remarks on that in-
teresting subject. 
	Thus it is in the magnificent plan of Jehovah, 
the work rolls on, and is not retarded by the 
summons to another sphere of any individual. 
			Very truly yours, 
							L. W. Kimball. 
	Logan temple, Cache Co., Utah, June 27, 1889


