	The days went on and oft she thought
		Of the bright gems the stranger brought,
	Smiling to know their light should shine
		Her own ’mid splendors all divine.
	And strove that outward grace to win
		Worthy the grace of soul within;
	Yet only half their meaning knew—
		I hat splendors cast their shadows too.

	Heaven remembered her and gave
		The gift her riven heart had craved,
	A babe, whose wondrous eyes revealed
		Pure mysteries from earth concealed,
	Their silent beauty almost speech,
		Diviner truths and love to teach.
	They led her soul 'mid earthly scenes
		Forgettiug earth, where—downward leans
	The Unseen—so close to the veil
		It almost touches spirits frail,
	Worn faint with trial ’til the breath
		Through joy or woe—is kissed by death—
	And there her soul heard other things
		Just as the blind feel passing wings!
	So, day by day they lived until
		Life seemed so fitted to God’s will
	And prayer the sceptre; 'neath its sway 
		Real, grateful bliss filled each fair day.

	Day hath its end, its night; souls, too,
		Have lost their sun of life from view;
	No hands that lift, no voice that calls
		But vainly on the darkness falls
	Until His hour. However lost
		In sorrow’s wild, His love hath crossed
	The trackless waste, He knoweth where
		The mourner kneeleth in despair.
	O, mourning mother! Not alone
		Thy riven heart in sorrow's moan.
	Not bitter only, is thy lot.
		Thou hast not been by heaven forgot;
	No stain of earth had marred the name
		Of that fair boy thy soul did claim, 
	No fault had dimmed those beauteous eyes,
		Too bright were they for these dull skies;
	Thy boys—lo—God hath taken them,
		Thy jewels, thy soul’s diadem.

	Remember her, that mother pure
		Who didst the agony endure
	On Calvary's hill; thou know’st in part
		The anguish of her sacred heart.
	Thrice blessed is that home wherein
		The shad’wy wing of death hath been;
	Thou hast had joy, possession, love,
		Now, each of these, lifted above
	Earth’s marring or its robbing, bear
		Their witness to thy portion there
	Where blessings past and present all
		Upward ascending ever call
	The tireless soul and wearied feet
		With them before His throne to meet.

	The sweetest voices earth hath known
		Were those attuned to sorrow’s moan,
	And nearer sanctified are they,
		Where grief hath washed in tears away
	The idle thoughts of cloudless hours.
		Forgetting how, for sins of ours
	The only Sinless, bowed his head,
		And would, with Mary wept her dead.

	Not wind and wave in furious storm
		Snatched from thine arms his precious form,
	Not stealthy foe nor cruel flame
		Thy lovely babe had power to claim,
	Not blighted by long suffering
		Ere the loosed soul its flight could wing—
[column 3]
	Rejoice, O, mother! In thine arms
		Death could not thrill him with alarms;
	His last sweet words were unto thee.
		Thine the last face his eyes could see,
	Safe in our mountain home he sleeps;
		While the wide world still onward keeps 
	It’s headlong course of pride and wrong
		Warring ’gainst Truth with hatred strong—
	O! better in that little grave,
		With mission ended, spirit saved. 
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, June 13th, 1889.


