LUCY  W. W. HAYES.

	A telegram from Freemont, Ohio, announced
the death of Mrs. Hayes, wife of Ex-President
R. B. Hayes on the 25, of June.  The lady died
at half past six in the morning, after an illness of
three days caused by paralysis.  Deceased was
born at Chillicothe, Ohio, August 28, 1831, and
was the youngest child of Dr. James Webb
and Maria Cook; her grandfather, Judge Isaac
Cook, came from Conn., in 1781, and her great
grandfathers fought in the Revolutionary War.
Her father served in the war of 1812.
	Miss Webb was married to R. B. Hayes, Dec.
30, 1852.  During the war of the rebellion, while
her husband was serving in the army, her home
was a refuge for the wounded, sick and furloughed
soldiers going to or returning from the front.
She spent two winters in camp with her husband
in Virginia, and after the battle at South Mountain
where he was badly wounded, she joined him at
Middleton, Maryland,  and also spent much time
at the hospital near Frederick City.
	Of her life at the White House, it is well known
that she distinguished herself by her cordiality
and amiability of manner.  She was highly com-
mended by temperance people, during her four
years sojourn at the White House, for never
allowing wine upon the table.  This fact alone,
shows what her strength of character must have
been, to succeed in carrying out her purpose in
opposition to the custom of society, and the
etiquette of the White House table.
	When we were in Washington in the winter of
1879, Mrs. Hayes was specially kind and consid-
erate, and tender in her feelings toward our sis-
ters, and free from prejudice on our question.
The writer was one of a committee of three to
call upon President Hayes, from the National
Woman Suffrage Convention, and present the
 Resolutions of the Suffrage Association. Mrs.
Sara A. Spencer read them and he smiled as
she read he was reproached for his neglect in
failing to menton the political, civil, or social
rights of women.
	After this part of the interview was
over, we succeeded in securing an appoint-
ment for an audience with the Presi-
dent on the Mormon question.  It was then
he brought his wife in and introduced her to the
party.  Mrs. Zina Young Williams accompanied
the writer and will remember as she does the
pleasant manner in which "the greatest lady of
the land," greeted us and the interest she mani-
fested in the matter we came to present; Miss
Grundy, the writer of society articles for the
Washington papers at that time (since deceased)
says "Mrs. Hayes heard the Mormon wives with
such earnest sympathy as to completely win their

