		SAN JUAN STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake, was held at Bluff, May 26,
1889; President Jane M. Walton presiding.
Singing "My God The Spring of All my
Joys."  Prayer by Counselor Wm. Halls.
Singing, "Zion Stands by Hills Sorrounded,"
Roll called.  Stake offioers present, five; local
officers, seven.  Minutes of last conference
read and approved.
	President Jane M. Walton made brief re-
marks.  Said she felt at home with the sisters;
prayed God to give her strength to fill her
honorable position; thought our conferences
were to strengthen us; was sure if we lived up
to the duties required of us we would become
great women.  The general and local officers
of the Relief Society were sustained.
	Presidents of the different branches gave
their reports which showed a marked improve-
ment in most places, which was most gratify-
ing.
	President Kristen Nielson reported the Bluff
Ward Society; also bore her testimony and
hoped to be faithful and true.
	Counselor M. M. Halls of Mancos felt she
had quite a responsibility in reporting all
the associations of that place, but was willing 
to do all in her power.  Said the Society was
not in so flourishing a condition as at last con-
ference, owing to the late disease that had
visited their town, namely, smallpox.
	Abigail Stevens said she had not been home
since last fall conference, her home being in
Burnham; but had corresponded regularly
with the Secretary.  The Society held meetings
regularly; they owned a stand of bees; the
teachers are doing a good work.  "We should
be careful how we train our children; teach
them not to interfere with that which does not
belong to them.  We should always be exem-
plary before them and guard our tongues, and
be careful what we say.  We should always
take a course to gain confidence.
	Counselor Daniel Allen reported the Moab
Ward Relief Society; said he had visited the
Society; they had done very well considering
inconvenices, the average attendance being five
members; they have some little property.
	President Jane M. Walton reported the
Monticello Society; the sisters felt to take hold.
Hoped the time would come when the Society
could be fully organized.  Wanted the
branches to store up grain.
	Counselor Martha Hammond addressed the
conference.  Related her late visit to the gen-
eral conference in Salt Lake City.  Knew the
faith and prayers of the sisters would give us
strength when trying to speak; said the sisters
should not speculate with their grair. She
had been given a mission to get the sisters to
take the EXPONENT, there are instructions in
that paper that we need.  Prayed God to bless
all.
	Counselor Josephine C. Wood, said she felt
well in the Gospel; felt we should be humble
and prayerful,and try and overcome our weak-
nesses; knew if we  were always thus, we 
would be able to stand the trials we are called
to pass through with more patience.  Wanted
to do her whole duty, and hoped she would
always be found on the side of right.
	Bishop Jens Nielson of Bluff, felt to endorse

