CHOIR AND CHAPEL OF EDWARD THE CON-
				FESSOR.	
	With reverent feet one ascends the steps
leading to the ancient choir, which contains
very much that is interesting; although the
objects are covered with the dust of ages.
Hence one looks upon the chantry of Henry
V, which is rather isolated. The effigy of the
king (which is of wood), is badly disfigured,
the head being entirely gone. Above are the
identical saddle, helmet, and shield used at the
battles of Crecy, Poitiers, and Agincourt. The
Westminster boys as they have sat at service on
Sundays, have looked up at the shield and
helmet of the departed warrior. We hope the
view inspired heroism and nobleness. The
helmet twice saved the life of Henry at Agin-
court. The richly sculptured arch was greatly
admired by Fiaxman. Upon it is represented
the coronation of Henry V, as it took place in
this very church, by Arundel, Archbishop of
Canterbury, and Henry Beaufort, uncle of the
king. Over the canopies are badges of ante-
lopes and swans, from his mother, co-heiress of
the Bohuns. The same animals are likewise
represented on the cornice, chained to a tree,
on which is a flaming cresset. This latter was
Henry’s badge, and signified that he would en-
deavor to lead his people in honor and virtue;
also the changes in conduct from prince to
king. The chantry is a distinguished piece of
work. This figure, H (in the ornamentation),de-
notes two founders, and two kingdoms which
he had united, France and England. The
sculpture describes the coat and other accom-
paniments, with peculiarities of the man, and
the following selection:	
	“Vaulted with love unto us.”
	“As if an angel dropped down from the


[Column One]
clouds, to witch the world with noble horse-
manship.”
	Of the statue, which was in English oak, but
a fragment now remains. It was bound in
silver gilt, with head of solid silver.  Two
golden teeth were plundered in the reign of
Edward IV, and all the silver was taken at the
time of the dissolution. By some estimates
Henry V was the best English sovereign to his
time. He certainly achieved great things in
his short career of thirty-four years. He gave
the praise chiefly to God. The lines on his
tomb are indicative of the esteem in which he
was held by the people. Here are some of them:
	“All England mourned.”
	“Hung be the heavens in black; yield day
to night.”
	“King Henry V, too famous to live long.”
	“England ne’er lost a king of so much
worth.”
	He was the principal instrument in bringing
about the annexation of France to England.
He died in the former country. His body was
brought over with great pomp, processions
greeting it on the way. Shakspeare (by far
the greatest of English historians) has made
the life of the king very clear to us. As we
looked on we recalled the words—“Men whose
limbs were made in England.”

