		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held at Snowflake, June 1st, 1889.  Presi-
dent Emma S. Smith, presiding.
	After a few opening remarks by President
Smith, Sister Mary J. West addressed the
meeting, and spoke of the time when the Snow-
flake Society was organizad, and the course
they had taken to accumulate property.  The
success that had crowned their efforts thus far,
she considered was due to the faithfulness of
the members; and for the peaceful feeling that
existed among them, considerable credit should
be given the head teacher, Sister Jemima W.
Smith.
	Sister Lucy H. Flake said: "The first thing
for us to do, is to do the will of the Lord, and
He will make up to us all we lack.  All of us
have missions to perform, and we should seek
the Holy Spirit to direct us."
	Sister Ann Brewer felt that the young peo-
ple have great blessings and privileges, greater
perhaps than the older ones, as all their pros-
pects are before them.  Urged them to attend
all places of instruction, and improve their
time in learning things of value, as it will
enable them to do a vast amount of good.
	Sister Fannie J. Willis spoke a few mo-
ments; was thankful for the return of con-
ference days, and the privilege of seeing faces
not seen for a long time.
	Counselor Sarah Driggs then addressed the
meeting, on the subject of taking care of the
means in the Society.
	Amelia Cardon bore her testimony to the
truth of this work, and said it will develop all
the good there is in us.
	Counselor Emily J. Lewis said: "We are
living in a day when people are tried, but
whatever may try us let us never deny any
principle of the Gospel, for they are all pure.
Let us try to be one, let us cease to do evil and
seek to keep the commandments of God, and
He will bless us.
	Sisters Sarah Cope, Anna I. Farnsworth,
Mary Savage and Martha Stratton also made
remarks.	
	Frances R. Thompson, Susan E. Allen,
Mary Peterson, Mary D. Farnsworth and


On Monday, June 24, a Woman Suffrage
Association was organized in Manti, for San-
pete Co. Mrs. Ellen Jakeman, President.
Full particulars are expected from the Cor-
responding Secretary, Mrs. Lu Dalton. On
Tuesday 25, a Woman Suffrage meeting was
held at Nephi. Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Z.
D. H. Young addressed the audience briefly.
Reports of conferences will be published as usual


