[Column 2]
back for themselves alone those political privi-
leges of which they have been deprived; but
to labor with all the rest of the women of the
country who are interested in the question for the
purpose of securing to women generally in the
United States those political rights which they
should enjoy as citizens of the United States.
The Government in which we live is supposed
to be a government of the people.  It is a gov-
ernment of the people, by the people and for
the people.  There was a time when there was
a dispute as to women having souls, but I think
that day is passed.
	I do not believe that any person who is at all
acquainted with the principles of the govern-
ment will dispute that a woman is a citizen.
Not only is she a citizen, but every woman who
becomes the wife of a citizen becomes by virtue
thereof, according to the laws of the United
States, a citizen herself.  So women have in
one respect a little advantage of the men.  No
matter how long she has resided here, if she
marries a citizen she becomes a citizen.  But
although a woman is called a citizen, and is
expected to perform the duties of a citizen as
far as she can and is subject to the law, still
she is deprived of any voice in the government.
She has no right to vote for an officer of the
government—unless, it may be, in some local-
ities they are permitted to vote for school
boards; and in one or two places for municipal
officers.
	In the Territory of Wyoming women can sit
on juries and serve as officers if their fellow
citizens feel inclined to elect them.  In the
Territory of Utah, ladies once held the right
of suffrage, but not the right to hold office.
Although women were entitled to vote, here
they were not entitled to hold office as the word
"male" is retained on the statute.  While as-
sociating with other members of the legislature,
I at one time attempted to get this word
erased, so that women might be placed on an
equality with men—not that I believe that wo-
men are qualified to act as Presidents of the
United States or judges or other executive
officers.  Perhaps some lady will disagree with
me in that respect, but I am open to convic-
tion if she wants to undertake to convince me;
but I am good deal like the Irish lady who
said "I am open to conviction but be my sowl
I would like to see the man that could convict
me."  (Laughter.)  It was not because I
thought they were qualified to hold office that
I desired to have the word erased; but I be-
lieved that there should be nothing on our
statute books which discriminated against any
portion of our community.  And that it should
be left to the good sense of the community to
select what offices women should be elected to
fill, if any.  I think every woman should vote
and have equal rights with the men at the polls;
and for this reason: that every woman is a
citizen, if she was born in the United States, or
naturalized, or the wife of a citizen, and she is
just as amenable to the laws.
	Now if a woman should steal (of course wo-
men would not steal, they are such nice crea-
tures) she is subject to punishment just the
same as the man; and so if she became intoxi-
cated (of course she would not).  If a woman
holds property she will have to pay taxes.  You
don't find any discrimination in that.  Under
our statutes women are permitted to hold pro-
perty.  A woman is an entity; she is a citizen
and can hold property in her own right.  Any
woman can hold any property which she ac-
cumulated before marriage.  It does not pass
from her to her husband as under the old com-
mon law.  As a woman can hold property in
her own right and must pay taxes upon that
property, she ought to have some voice in the
government as to the disposition of the revenue
derived in part from her property.  There are
a great many arguments—no objections—


[Column One]

against women voting; one is that women can
not be drafted into the army, and therefore
should not vote. Well have you not found
some men who would not make good soldiers?
They say a woman is not suitable for this, and
that she is not suitable for that and so on. A
great many of the arguments brought against
the women can also be brought against the
men. There are only a few men who are fit
to be leaders.
	There are certain leaders in the world that
have a peculiar force of character and in-
tellect. It will be so always in this world, and
I believe in the other. There is one intelli-
gence above another as there is one star above
another, and the greater will lead the less. All
of the objections which can be brought up
about women can be brought against men.
There is no reason, I think, why women in this
country should not have a right to vote. There
is another reason I have, and it is this: The
laws of the United States have given the fran-
chise to the colored people. I know a great
many women who are more fit to exercise this
franchise than the colored people. Go among the
people of the south and mingle with them and
see what a low order of intelligence exists,and
you will see thousands who have no idea of
the principles of this government who have the
suffrage, while thousands of intelligent women
are denied it.
	But if we will analyze all the objections
made against woman suffrage we will find that
there is no real basis for them. They say that
it will degrade a woman. How? They say she
will have to mingle in the crowd and be jostled
if she votes. Well does she not mingle with
the crowd when she goes to the theatre, in the
store, in places of business generally? Does she
not travel up and down the same thorough fares
and sometimes have to sleep in the same
sleepers? Are they demoralized by that? Not
a bit. They should have equal rights and
privileges. At one time there was a great deal
of ridicule when the women tried to study for
the profession of medicine. Now do women
become doctors? Yes, and no particular noise
is made about it. And so with every profes-
sion—we find women lawyers. Why, women
operate in Wall street in New York. Some
say it is unwomanly. Why should the woman
not have a right to make money if she has
the ability? There are many things that women
are adapted to and so with men. Now let me
make a little explanation with regard to this
matter in which there is  a great deal of mis-
conception, that is that citizenship and suffrage
are the same thing. It is a great mistake.
There are a great many citizens who do not
have the right of suffrage. No person can vote
except he be a citizen, though in some states
persons who have declared their intentions to
become citizens can vote, but as a rule no per-
son can vote unless he is a citizen. Qualifica-
tions, however, are different in different states
and each state has a right to form its own
local laws regulating the right of suffrage and
the qualifications of voters. That shows that
citizenship does not carry with it the right to
vote. Voting is a privilege, and not a right
and suffrage comes by a grant from the legis-
lature.
	I observed in reading some of the young
ladies’ journals discussing this matter, that
they are going to be superior to men. There is
to be a perfect revolution all over the United
States, the ballot box is to become purified,and
the government is to be purified, and all move-
ments which now actuate the people are going
to be obliterated. Everything is going to be
lovely, and, I suppose, to use an old phrase,
"The goose is going to hang high” (laughter).
I hope my friends in Ogden will not entertain
such nonsense. I believe that women will have
a right to vote, and that when they do there
will be no perceptible change. The principles

[Column Two]

of government will remain the same, and there
will be the same kind of struggle for office,and
the same kind of motives to gain office as there
is now. There is a prejudice and it is nothing
but a prejudice in the United States against
woman suffrage, and it grows out of that old
condition in which we existed under the old
common law, where the man was the head and
body of the house, and when woman married,
she lost her identity.
	I do not believe that women will be elected
to be judges of the Supreme Court of the
United States, or commanding officers of militia
or constables or anything of that kind. The
good sense of the community will select the
offices which they are the best qualified to fill.
Don’t you think a woman can be a treasurer
as well as a man can? There are women who
are fit to be treasurers, and I know of some who
handle the revenue of a city, county or other
government better than some men I have met.
I think certainly that the good sense of the
community would select such an office for the
women as they can fill with honor and profit,
but executive and judicial offices, if I had con-
trol of things, should only be occupied by men.
The female mind is not judicial. Women
generally jump at conclusions, and what would
sometimes take a man an hour they observe in
an instant. In judicial affairs it takes reason-
ing. You ask a woman any question and her
answer is “because.” They jump at conclu-
sions. They don’t count the steps—it is hop,
skip and jump; and often they light right on
the mark. There are offices which women can
fill and a good sensible community would de-
termine what those would be; and therefore I
think the time will come in the United States
that the people will have seen that as a govern-
ment of the people, all the people should have 
the right to vote.
	I want you to understand me clearly, if I
can make it plain to you: In your operations
to obtain the right to vote or hold office, you
should not make the claim as a right; it is not
a right, it is a privilege granted by law.
	I think there is another mistake made by the
ladies in their efforts to obtain this privilege.
That they are endeavoring to obtain an
amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. I believe in Democratic principles.
This is a government in which certain things
are delegated to the general government of the
United States, and there are other powers
which are retained by the respective states.
This is the government for the government of
the United States. A number of states, each
of which is sovereignized in its own sphere, are
joined together in the general government, and
have each given up a portion of their rights to
this general government; and one of the rights
which belong to them and which still remains
is the right to regulate the suffrage. The gov-
ernment of the United States derives its
powers from the Constitution, and it has no
powers and can exercise no powers only as they
are defined in that instrument; and under that
it has no power to regulate the matter. And
so when the women go to Congress and want
the Constitution amended,or the regulation for
voting to be altered, they are working against
the fundamental principles of the Constitu-
tion.
	Ladies and sisters, gentlemen brothers—we
are all brothers and sisters, Jew, Gentile, all
who dwell upon the earth are the children of
the great Father. We are all brothers and
sisters, for God created of one blood all nations
that dwell upon the earth. We are all
children of the great Father. So I say ladies
and sisters, gentlemen and brothers—in your
efforts move upon a sensible line. Do not fol-
low the multitude to delusion or folly. A great
many things are being done and said. You
who are organized need not follow the ladies of
the United States into paths of folly and non-

[Column Three]

sense. You want to study principles of gov-
ernment—and that is one of the important
things I think this association should enter
into. I think you will get a greater interest in
your meetings if they do this. Take up prin-
ciples of government, municipal government,
county government, state government, and
then national government. You ladies should
study these things. And another thing if they
never understood these things how can the
mother teach her boy the true principles of
this government, if she does not understand
them herself. Every boy has a political right
to be President of the United States, and who
knows but your boy may become president?
You can’t tell. Curious changes take place.
You want to understand these things so as to
teach them to your children. We should
teach our children to be obedient to the law.
No community can have order without law—
without law there is no peace, and without
peace there is no happiness, and the foundation
of happiness is laid in law.
	The great difficulty with a great many
parties is that they are not subject to restraint.
They want to run wild. There is a spirit of
independence we must not indulge in our child-
ren. The principles of law should be under-
stood by the mother so that she may teach
them to her son, and that they may have a
disposition to understand what law is. When
you come together let some ladies whose minds
run in that direction take up some principle of
self-government and explain it for the benefit
of the others. We should study these prin-
ciples, and if we find any weak places, find out
how they can be shunned. We want to build
up this government, not tear it down. We
want to establish a good government.
	When you get the ballot use it wisely—
not as a little bit of paper of no worth, but as
something of great inportance. Many of the
men in the states go to the polls like cattle
driven by men. I have heard of men being
carried to the polls, a ticket thrust into their
hands and held until they had given it to the
judge and then hustled out. I do not think wo-
men will do this, but I can’t tell. I think they
will try to understand what they are voting for,
and I think they will vote for good and wise
men. That they will find out the best men for
offices—find out the persons best fitted to fill
them—and then vote for honest men, wise men
and good men. By way of preparation for
that, learn to understand priciples of law and
the principles of government of each little
town, of localities, of the territories, of the
states, of the nation, and then go on if you have
time enough to learn inter-national law, the in-
tercourse between one nation and another.
Use your intelligence for good, virtue, order,
peace and the maintenance of good order, and
the establishment of good government. Women
have a good deal of power which is unseen.
Woman’s power does not consist in rule and
dominion; but in that quiet domestic influence
which she exercises at home. If you do not
get the suffrage, your position is just as essential
as the position of men. You can never be men
if you try to be. There is no use trying. I
have heard women say “O I wish I was a man
only for a few minutes.” There is as much
chance to do good, as you are. Neither can
get along without the other, but the Lord has
designed that they should go together. Nature
has pointed out the path, and we see it in every
form of creation, in the fruits, vegetables, trees,
and in everything there is male and female.
	If there is anything which you are deprived
of, struggle for it. Ask for it, it is your privi-
lege. Do not claim that you are so much
better than the men; but contend for the prin-
ciples of sound reason, contend for the privi-
leges you ought to have as American citizens;
and I tell you, if you can only convert your
own sex you can secure the rights of suffrage.


How many ladies in Weber County are in-
terested in this move? Convert your sex first.
It is only the minority of women that are seek-
ing to obtain the suffrage. I shall be pleased
to see the day when you shall have this privi-
lege granted you. May the day soon hasten, I 
shall hail it, and shall be very thankful to see 
women placed on an equality with men.


