OLD FOLKS IN OGDEN.

	The Old Folks excursion went to Ogden on Wed-
nesday, June 25, celebrating their annual custom.
Their destination was Lester Park, where all had
been previously arranged by the committee,
who always take the greatest pains to make all
these nice old folks comfortable and have a good
time.  No pains is spared and really the old seem
to dwell upon it with fond anticipation each year.
There were about seven hundred from Salt Lake
and Davis Counties, and something near as
many more from Weber, Box Elder, Cache, and
Summit Counties. 
	It is quite an interesting sight to see so many
aged people together, and the Ogden people
gave them a royal reception.  The Ogden Brass
Band was on the streets when they arrived and 
gave them a hearty welcome.  The old folks
were conveyed in carriages and buggies to the
Park from the depot, and there everything was 
in order; long tables filled with good things and
decorated with flowers were all in readiness, and
young girls clothed in white waited upon these
happy old people.  The Plain City brass band
was also on hand, and played stirring music.
Everything passed of pleasantly, as it ever has
on these occasions, and the Committee must feel
gratified with their work.
	It is a beautiful custom thus to honor the vet-
erans annually, and make them feel they are
not forsaken.  Many of them are jubilant on these
excursions giving expression to their gratitude
for the privilege thus generously granted them.
The people give liberally for these festivities,
and the old folks are just as delighted with their
presents as children are with toys; and indeed
they are very often more for show than use.
There are many funny things said by the witty
ones, and the committee enjoy the jokes and
repartee heartily.
	However it is painfully sad and serious, as well
as enjoyable, and causes many solemn reflections
to pass through the thoughtful mind.
	The EXPONENT adds its congratulations, and
wishes for them one and  all a pleasant and
 peaceful voyage towards the setting sun of their
days upon the earth, and a glorious heritage here-
after, with an abundant entrance into the kingdom
of our Father, whose pity and care is over all,
and who will not let a sparrow fall without his
notice.  God bless the old folks forever, and
long live the Old Folks' Committee to devise
ways and means for their enjoyment each year.


