SHRINE OF EDWARD THE CONFESSOR.
	
	In this section is the oldest memorial in the
abbey—that of its founder, Edward the Con-
fessor. It is an ancient-looking tomb; and
hither Roman Catholic pilgrims come to this
day. Old armorial bearings are seen upon the
sides of the tomb. This chapel was the holy of
holies of Edward the Confessor. The pave-
ment glows with peacock hues. The coffin is
of stone, iron bound, with a shrine of marble
and mosaics. The tomb was injured at the
dissolution, but was restored by Mary I. It

[Column Two]
was again defaced by the falling of scaffolding,
at the coronation of James II; it was robbed
also at that time. From an elevated position
one can look into the urn. To the left of the
tomb of the confessor is that of Edith, his
queen, the daughter of Earl Godwin, sister of
Harold. In this place the Stone of Scone and
the Scottish regalia were offered. At one time,
behind the shrine were the relics of Saint
Edward, as the confessor came to be called.
There was also a tooth of Saint Athanasius, a
stone with a foot-print of the Savior and a phial
of precious blood. On the screen a fantastic
legend is told of the confessor. The designs
are as follows:
	First—Bishops are showing fealty to the
child.
	Second—Represents the birth of Islip.
	Third—The coronation of the confessor,
1043. 
	Fourth—He sees the devil dancing on Han-
gelt, and abolishes it.
	Here we have a bit of practical history. The
Dangelt or Danish tax had become oppressive,
and Edward did a good thing for his people in
abolishing it. One sometimes sees much mean-
ing in those old, fantastic works of art; they
make history more intelligible to us moderns.
To return to the description.
	Fifth—Describes a scullion warned who has
been stealing from the treasure chest. This
was perhaps a satire on some high official.
	Sixth—he sees the Savior in a vision on an
altar where he is about to receive the sacra-
ment.
	Seventh—He has a vision of the king of
Denmark who is drowned on his way to
England.
	Eighth—Harold and Tostig quarrel at the
king’s table, prophetic of future disagree-
ments.
	Ninth—The confessor in the midst of his
courtiers has a vision of the seven sleepers of
Ephesus, who turn from right to left.
	Tenth—The confessor meets Saint John and
gives him a ring.
	Eleventh—The blind restored to sight by
water in which the confessor had washed. That
superstition may have been the parent of the
one which attributed to the king the virtue of
curing the king’s evil or scrofula, by touching
the patient, which was believed in as late as
the time of Queen Anne.
	Twelfth—Saint John sends two pilgrims to
the confessor to take back the ring, and to say
that within six months he would meet him in
paradise.
	Thirteenth—Pilgrims deliver message and
ring to the king.
	Fourteenth—Edward, warned of his death,
completes the dedication of the abbey.
	With certain suggestive truths in those de-
signs are given a few superstitions, which re-
mind us of the idolatry displayed for Becket
at Canterbury. The observer can learn from
them what the decline in superstition has been.
Let us imagine an English monarch to-day be-
lieving such things? It is true that the world
moves in some directions.
	The shrine of Edward the Confessor forms
an appropriate center of this most ancient
center of the edifice. Not far from the shrine
of Edward the Confessor is the fine tomb of
Henry III. An inscription tells of his long
reign of fifty-six years. The statue is of gilded
brass, representing the king wearing a long
mantle. His son, Edward I, brought from
abroad fitting stones for it.
			[To be continued.]


