[Column 2]
a thousand glowing transports, and alas! in all
its cold and hard realities as well; but so it
proved.
	Ere long an event transpired that changed
all the current of Hephzibah's life. Her
father died suddenly, without a settlement of
any sort for his large family. The widowed
mother with three younger children, and not
one old enough to render much assistance in
the way of help or support, was more than
ever engrossed with the cares of life. Alas!
how heavy fall such burdens on women.
	The widow left so utterly dependent, with
ten children looking to her maintenance, took
up her burden heroically and never faltered.
Some said "The children's rich uncle will pro-
vide for them," But Mrs. H.—always an-
swered "No! we do not want his money; but if
I were a man with power to act, I would see
they had their own, of which he has robbed
them.” And this was true, for the eldest
brother taking advantage of the old Major's
idiosyncracies, had managed to obtain possession
of all his ready means, and used it in his own
business and then represented that he sup-
ported his father, and consequently all there
was worth claiming belonged to him alone.
One of the sons had died while quite young;
another gone, they knew not whither, for he
never wrote nor sent one word to comfort his
aged father; and the third lived a gay bachelor
life in the city of Boston. Neither of these
cared for the paternal estate, nor the heir-
looms of the family, therefore the eldest son
had full sway after his youngest brother's
death. He had always been annoyed about
his large family, and living so near the old
home, he feared his influence, but now he
breathed freely again, for he was gone where
he could no more trouble him about worldly
affairs. Inwardly he congratulated himself
that the "coast was clear," although he made
some pretensions to a desire to help the widow
and lighten her load of care.
	The widow really thought that in considera-
tion of the circumstances, the uncle would
take Hephzibah to Boston and educate her,
but no such offer was made, nor any hint of
such a thing given. The very next morning
after his brother's funeral, the rich merchant
bade them all good-bye ceremoniously, and
without a word of consolation, left for his own
luxurious home, knowing too that they were
entitled to a support at least, from the estate
he had charge of.
		      [to be continued.]

[Column 3]
meetings with only those she brought with
her. By the way, Indianola being so isolated,
the people greatly appreciate the too-seldom
visits of missionaries.
	Sister Felt's kind encouragement, seemed to
sink into the hearts of those who listened to
her. They appreciated her visit very much.
Little Vera Felt, who accompanied her, added
to the enjoyment of each meeting, with a
sweet recitation.
	We were received with the greatest kind-
ness and cordiality wherever we went. We
were greatly prospered and blessed on our
visit, and feel that the knowledge of God and
His ways, is increasing with our children.
His gifts and blessings are bestowed upon
them in rich abundance. There is a strong
attachment between the officers and members
of the Primary Associations.
	(We witnessed one touching, little episode on
our visit to Spring City. Their President,
Emma Robinson, had been bedfast for two or
three weeks. In the evening, the Primary
children, surrounded the bedroom window
and sang some of their beautiful songs. Sister
Robinson was moved to tears, and yet she
could not refrain from joining in with the
children in their praises to God, as she has
done so for fully nine years or more. After
the singing, many of the children crowded
around her bed, to press her hand and ask
God's blessings upon her.)
	Sister Felt expressed herself as being satis-
fied with the Primaries of Sanpete Stake, and
her visit to them. 
	Our manly little driver, Freddie Swalberg,
of Gunnison, did all that he could to speed us
on our journey. He took excellent care of our
team, and never missed a meeting. 
	Earnestly praying that our heavenly Father
will bless the Primaries in Zion, and all who
spend time, means, and labor for the advance-
ment of our precious children.
			We remain,
		HELENA MADSEN, Stake President,
		SARAH METCALF, Secretary,
	GUNNISON, June 11th, 1889.


