FAITH.

	Faith is one of the firrst principles of the
Gospel.  "By faith we live, move, and have
our being."  We are told "If any are sick
among you, (you) should call for the elders of
the Church, they should anoint them with oil;
and the prayer of faith shall heal the sick, and
the Lord shall raise them up, if they are not
appointed unto death."  But there is still an-
other promise: "If they die, they die unto
me, and if they live, they live unto me, and if
they have committed sins they shall be forgiven
them."  This promise causes me to reflect a
great deal on this principle, and ask myself
the question—how it is that so many among
us, as soon as they are sick, send for the doc-
tor?  If the doctor is a friend, all right; for
the Lord said further: "If ye have not faith
to be healed, you shall be administered to
with mild herbs, by the hand of a friend—not
an enemy.  We read in the eleventh chapter
of Hebrews: "Faith is the substance of things
hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.  By
faith the worlds were framed, by faith Abel
offered sacrifice to the Lord, by faith Enoch
was translated, without faith it is impossible to
please God."  I could rehearse a great many
more evidences on faith, but this should be
sufficient to awaken our thoughts to the im-
portance of the cultivation of a principle so
essential to our life-work.
					SUSIE STEPHENSON,
	Manuscript Paper, Nephi.


Mrs. Z. D. H. Young recently made a tour
of Sanpete Co.’ in company with Mrs. M. A.
Hyde, and Prest. Peterson and wife.
	Clara Barton is still as active as ever.  Her
humane work was carried on in Paris after the
fall of the Commune.  When the Mississippi
overflowed its banks in 1884 she appeared,
laden with relief.  Her work in America,
additional to what has been mentioned, has re-
lieved the sufferers of the Ohio floods, Michi-
gan fires, Charleston earthquake, Texas drouth,
Mount Vernon tornado, and now the awful
calamity at Johnstown.  She is president of
the American Red Cross Society.  The motto
of the American branch is: "Relief in war,
famine, pestilence, and other national calami-
ties."


