FAULT FINDING.

	There is nothing that destroys the happiness
of a home, so quickly and completely as fault-
finding. It is an enemy to peace and con-
tentment. Persons who indulge in this habit
of finding fault at home with those they love
the best, forget that home is the place to make
happiness, and to make this earth an Eden.
One fault finding person in a family can make
a home so miserable, that its members are
glad to go abroad to the neighbors to seek
that comfort which is denied them by their
own fireside.
	What young lady would wish to be num-
bered with the fault finders? Surely none!
Young ladies can do much toward making
home pleasant for their brothers and younger
members of the family, by being kind and
gentle, displaying their company manners at
home with their parents and brothers and
sisters. They can take a great burden from
the shoulders of their weary mother, by assist-
ing to take care of, and teach the children
lessons of good behavior, helping them with
their school lessons, selecting appropriate songs
and recitations for the Primary, getting them
ready to go, and in a thousand different ways
can a thoughtful, loving daughter, make the
burden light for her mother,and be a sunbeam,
a joy forever in the home.
	Girls, don’t find fault if your parents cannot
provide everything you think you want, be
grateful for what you have, and be willing to
labor for what you want. Not only should
girls be willing to work for themselves, but if
their families are in needy circumstances, they
should be willing, and thankful to be able to
assist them.


I fancy I hear some young lady say, "Oh!
it's a pity if my father can't keep me; I'm not
going to live out and earn my own living."
They are too proud for that, and think it a dis-
grace to be self-sustaining.  Girls who talk in
this manner do not look at life and labor in
their proper light.  Labor is honorable; idle-
ness dishonorable.  Girls who have an inde-
pendent spirit, scorn the idea of being depen-
dent, and consider it far more honorable to be
self-supporting, than to be a burden to an aged
father, who has perhaps, worn himself out
providing for his family while they were unable
to take care of themselves; and now when
they have grown to womanhood, and are
abundantly able to earn their own living,
why should they not be happy in doing so;
and if necessary, help to repay the debt they
owe their parents?  Do our parents owe us a
living when we are able to earn it ourselves?
Doee the world owe us a living?  I think not.
I think we are indebted to our parents for our
existence.  Jehovah decreed, that "man should
earn his bread by the sweat of his brow."  and
he further said in the Doctrine and Covenants,
that the idler should not eat the bread of the
laborer.  Let us not want something for
nothing, but let us labor faithfully, and
earnest labor will bring a sure reward.
							M. E. T.


