[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE | Author: ALICE BURKE]

DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
 (Continued.)

	They reached the camp and Rob grew
brighter. He even contrived to help him-
self down from the horse.
	“Come with me and let me dress the
wound,” again the Doctor urged. But
Deborah answered coldly, “I’m sorry, sir, 
but I can do that myself. I want my tent
alone. Can you not help me to this, Doc-
tor?”
	Ben turned angrily away.
	“Come then,” and he led her to a tent,
where he left her, after giving her band-
pages, etc.
	Once alone she bravely dressed the deep
and painful wound, spite of the agony
she endured, and thus she escaped detec-

[Column 2]
tion. She was in constant fear of Dr. 
Gannett. His searching gaze seemed to 
penetrate beyond the disguise she wore.
She dared not follow him farther, so when
orders came for moving she pleaded sick
leave and was left behind. She was to
care for others as soon as she recovered,
which was shortly. Dr. Gannett remon-
strated at the ill luck that separated him
from the youth who so deeply interested
him. He said as much to him, but only
met with a cool rejoinder, bidding him do
his duty and follow his regiment. When
he was gone and Deborah was quite re-
covered, she began to care for the sick and
wounded. She was placed in charge of
one special soldier who was very ill. They
were lodged in the family of a Dutchman,
Van Tassel by name, and a Tory to boot.
	Deborah suspected as much and was on
the alert for action. Van Tassel had a
very pretty daughter, Mina. She was be-
trothed to David Brenton, Deborah’s
former lover. He had gone over to the
Tories.
	So far Deborah escaped detection, for she
was changed since he saw her, bronzed by
the sun and worn from hardships. She
avoided him as much as possible, and he
showed no signs of recognition, but mani-
fested an insane jealousy of her attentions to
Mina, as they presumably came from a
handsome young soldier. But Deborah
continued them, thus finding out the secret
meetings of the Tories, who met at Van
Tassel’s house.
	On a dark night she made her way to the
American camp and disclosed the plot to
the Colonel. He immediately ordered a
party of men to aid her, putting her in
command. She rushed off boldly with
them, surrounded Van Tassel’s home just
as a meeting was in progress and captured
fifteen Tories. In the midst of the fray
Deborah found that she was being attacked 
by Sergeant Brenton.
	She parried his sword thrusts as best she
could. But his skill was too much for her
and he gave her an ugly gash, inflicting a
wound which opened the old one.
	She staggered, nearly falling, but she
overcame her weakness. Her coat was
colored with blood. The flickering candles
in the kitchen, where they fought, threw a
light on her pale, determined face.
	“To the death!” she called out to her
comrades as they wavered a second. “Don’t
let them go, my men. On, on to victory!”
	She rushed madly at the Sergeant again,
who by this time was thoroughly incensed
and was fixed in his desire to kill his
assailant. His thrusts became surer.
	Suddenly he observed the young man’s
appearance, the bedraggled uniform, the
disordered hair matted with blood from a
scalp wound, the wide open dark eyes, a 
strange memory stirred him. He had seen
the face before. Where? And then it 
was clear to him. He saw a girl at a win-
dow in the moonlight, looking down at
him. He held back his sword and grasped
the boy’s wrist and bent closer. Scanning
him mercilessly, Deborah read recognition
in his eyes. The room swam about her. 
	“My God,” he said, “who are you?
Speak.”
	She nerved herself bravely for the
answer, leaning against a table. The
other combatants were fighting outside now
and they were comparatively alone.
	“Speak,” he repeated.
	“My name is Robert Shirtliff,” she said
boldly.


[Column 1]
	“It’s a lie!” he exclaimed, drawing her
directly under the light. He pushed back
the matted hair and looked long and pas-
sionately at her as if for months he had
wished for this moment.
	“’Tis Deborah, Deborah my lost love.
My poor girl,” he said tenderly and clasped
her in his arms, kissing her lips, her brow
with a wild passion. She was in a half un-
conscious state and realized very little that
occurred.
	“God help me,” David said, “I have
wounded you—I—”
	“Nothing,” she gasped, “let me die.”
	“No, no,” she heard as in a dream and
then another voice broke upon her senses
A voice she remembered but too well, 
a voice which thrilled her and then bending 
over her she saw Ben Gannett.
	“Ben,” she said, trying to raise herself,
but finding it impossible, and David suc-
ceeded in getting her to her feet by holding
her in his arms.
	Dr. Gannett looked amazed to find an
enemy caring for her.
	“You are wounded, Rob, my poor boy,”
he said.
	“Yes, to the death, Ben,” Deborah mut-
tered, dragging herself forcibly away from
Brenton’s detaining hand, and throwing
her arms suddenly about Ben’s neck.
	“To the death,” she said again, and 
then lay quiet.
	“Not that,” he remonstrated gently,
while he raised her head to look at her.
	She was deathly pale, her eyes closed,
this time she was in a deep swoon.
	“And I have done it. God forgive me,”
David said brokenly.
	Ben was more surprised at this remark,
but bade him lend a hand, and together
they carried her to the camp, and straight
to the Doctor’s tent, where they laid her
down. It was here David Brenton told 
Deborah’s secret to Ben Gannett, whose
astonishment was manifest. The two men,
however, swore allegiance to her, each
promising to keep the secret, until a proper
time came to divulge it, and the Doctor
seemed to see when that would be.
	David, with a miserable remorse tugging
at his heart, was forced to return to his
duties, and to his promise to marry Mina,
whom he had never really loved. He found
his role a difficult one, but he played it
honorably, only going regularly to inquire
for the young soldier. The Doctor cau-
tioned him not to come after she began to
recover, fearing she might suspect he had
told her secret. So David stayed away .and
Deborah did not see him again for many
years, and when they did meet he was
married to Mina.
	It is needless to say that during Deborah’s
illness, which followed on her wounds, Dr.
Gannett never left her, and allowed no one
else to nurse her. He found a deeper senti-
ment than duty kept him by her side—he
loved her, but how to tell her. He read
her proud yet sensitive nature like an open
book, and hardly dared to think how this
great love for her might end.
	One day in the early autumn, Deborah,
weak and emancipated, walked outside the
tent with Ben’s assistance. It was difficult
to guard every word and look as he felt her
soft hand in his. He wanted to throw dis-
cretion to the winds, and tell his love to
her and hold her in a close embrace, but
looking now upon her lovely face, pure and
innocent as a child’s, he controlled himself,
and she never imagined that her truest
friend knew her as she was. Many had

[Column 2]
been the inquiries for Rob during his ill-
ness, and the soldiers crowded around him
as he came out in the faded blue regimentals.
Their brave faces were anxious and yet in
the eyes of many were tears at the sight of
the wan face and eager eyes. The Doctor,
seeing them so moved, put on a jovial man-
ner and turned the conversation to lighter
topics, and the morning passed pleasantly.
Thus day by day Deborah grew stronger,
and soon expressed a wish to take up her
duties as before, but she found opposition
in the Doctor.
	“It’s no use, Ben,” as he had insisted
upon being called, “I must join the ranks
once more, I must have action. See, I am
quite strong now.” A bright flush mounted
her cheeks while she spoke. She looked to
him very womanly as she stood before him.
The glance he bent upon her made her un-
easy.
	“I cannot and will not allow you to go,
Rob,” the Doctor said finally. “But if you
wont listen to me, I have secured a com-
mission, or rather a letter, from the Colonel
to General Washington, which you have
been ordered to carry to him. It is of im-
portance.”
	He did not meet her eyes and a hundred
misgivings came to him.
	“Will you take it?” he asked, holding it.
towards her. 
	“Yes, of course, at once, today. ” she
answered quickly.
	“But why this haste? Within a month
the Colonel’s orders were.”
	“Very well. Give it to me.”
	He did so.
	“Strange how contrary you are, Rob.”
	“It is not that, Ben. But I must be on
the go, some action, serving my country.”
	“Yes, but you cannot now.”
	“We shall see.”
	He suddenly drew her inside his tent and
placing both hands on her shoulders forced
her to look into his eyes. Her’s were filled
with defiance yet he perceived a wavering,
a fear in their clear depths.
	“Rob,” he said, “don’t be reckless again.
You have very nearly lost your life. Try
to think of me, for—for—you are very dear
to me.”
	“Thank God, sir, for that,” Deborah
said fervently.
	How he rejoiced to hear the eager tone.
How well he knew every outline of her
face. Had he not watched over her for
eight long weeks until her loveliness was
imprinted on his memory, never to be
effaced.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
