[Vol42 | February 1955 | Sequence: 19 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
Srom Near and Sar Just a word of appreciation this morning for The Relief Society Magazine which comes to us each month with its wonderful message, here in the Banning Branch in sunny California. We are thankful for the Magazine. Its precious contents are a blessing to women. 'The courses in theology, literature, and social science are inspiring adventures in the fields of spirituality, literature, and government, and help fill in the gaps in the early teaching and training of many a life.

These courses in these studies are equal to college courses. 'The stories in the Magazine are beautiful, inspirational, and restful when the mind is weary. 'The poetry is delightful, too. We welcome and enjoy this good book. —Romania B. Benson Beaumont, California Thank you for The Relief Society Magazine. I wait more or less patiently from month to month, and when it comes I put everything else aside until I have read it from cover to cover. I have been "exposed"' to this wonderful Magazine all of my life. My mother took it all her married life. I can remember as I grew older and loved to read I would go down our old cellar and get all of mother's old Relief Society Magazines and spend many a happy hour reading them. Now I read with great interest the Woman's Sphere page by Ramona W. Cannon, and especially the birthday congratulations. —Mrs. Agnes Young Idaho Falls, Idaho Congratulations to President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. For the happy laugh he gave us in the December number of our Magazine (page 811).

When we look at the happiness on his face we cannot help but feel that all is well. President Budge's eldest daughter, eighty-five years old, and I look at this picture in the morning and it gives us an uplift. Also, the smiles of President McKay and President Richards are very sweet and helpful to us all. Each Magazine seems the very best. —Lettie B. H. Rich Logan, Utah Page 74 I received my first two copies of The Relief Society Magazine three days ago as a gift from my mother. These Magazines were very welcome, as they are the only contact I have had with the Church for some time. 'There are two branches here on the island, but neither is close enough for us to attend regularly. I especially enjoy the religious fiction, as interesting, moral fiction is hard to come by on an army post. —Joyce Nelson Camp Lasey, Puerto Rico I have had The Relief Society Magazine by a California cousin as a Christmas gift for several years. Although I am a nonmember of the Church, I, would not want to be without this fine publication. My mother used to read it before she died, and called it a "pick-up" magazine, because the articles were short and could be finished before she had to go on to other duties. —Frances Strong Helman Indiana, Pennsylvania I read several times the stories, lessons, and poems, and since I especially enjoy cooking and homemaking, I refer again and again to the recipe sections and handicraft articles. I find the Magazine perfect in both size and content. It can be held easily in one hand, and the articles can usually be read at one sitting. I keep the back issues close by in the bookcase, so that I can reread them, and often I find an article or poem that seems to carry just the message I need when I am tired or blue. The Magazine is an inspiration and a guide to the young mothers of the Church. —Mrs. Janell Arrington Twin Falls, Idaho Each new issue of the Magazine brings me added wealth of knowledge as well as spiritual uplift. I enjoy each lesson and feel that I am greatly benefited by the courses of study as outlined and _presented. —LeNore J. Parker Layton, Utah