[Vol42 | February 1955 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Poem | Title: February Moon | Author: Ethel Jacobson]
E— FEBRUARY  1955
Articles  of  similar  import  have  ap-
peared in  newspapers  and  period-
icals since  that  time.  The  end  is  not
yet,  the  prophetic  utterances  of  the
Presidency  are  fulfilled  only  in  part.
Much  more  is  yet  to  come.
PRESIDENT  David  O.  McKay,
addressing  a  special  meeting  of
stake  presidencies,  October  2,  1936,
said:
I  do  not  know  of  any  activity  with
which  we  have  been  associated  which
promises  more  fruitful  results  in  temporal
and  spiritual  achievement  than  this
Church  Security  Program  ....  It  is  go-
ing to  stand  out  in  Church  history  as  sig-
nificant ....  Brethren,  I  congratulate  you
with  all  my  heart.  You  are  not  doing  it
for  yourselves,  but  for  others  and  for  the
Lord,  by  providing,  and  contributing  to
the  progress  and  success  of  the  Church.
To  the  General  Conference  next
day,  he  said:
Throughout  this  Conference  frequent
reference  has  been  made,  and  approp-
riately so,  to  the  plan  inaugurated  by  the
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  for  the
relief  of  those  who  are  unemployed.  It  is
at  present  one  of  our  greatest,  and  one  of
the  most"  important  concerns  of  the
Church.  During  the  few  minutes  allotted
to  me  I  desire  to  call  attention  to  the
spiritual  value  of  this  important  and  far-
reaching  undertaking.
In  the  29th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and
Covenants,  we  are  told  that  ".  .  .  all  things
unto  me  are  spiritual,  and  not  at  any  time
have  I  given  unto  you  a  law  which  was
temporal;  neither  any  man,  nor  the  chil-
dren of  men;  neither  Adam,  your  father,
whom  I  created.
"Behold,  I  gave  unto  him  that  he  should
be  an  agent  unto  himself;  and  I  gave  un-
to him  commandment,  but  no  tempoial
commandment  gave  I  unto  him,  for  my
commandments  are  spiritual;  they  are  not
natural  nor  temporal,  neither  carnal  nor
sensual"  (D.  &  C.  29:34-35).
The  development  of  our  spiritual  na-
ture should  concern  us  most.  Spirituality
is  the  highest  acquisition  of  the  soul,  the
divine  in  man;  "the  supreme,  crowning  gift
that  makes  him  king  of  all  created  things."
It  is  the  consciousness  of  victory  over  self
and  of  communion  with  the  infinite.  It
is  spirituality  alone  which  really  gives  one
of  the  best  in  life.
It  is  something  to  supply  clothing  to
the  scantily  clad,  to  furnish  ample  food  to
those  whose  table  is  thinly  spread,  to  give
activity  to  those  who  are  fighting  des-
perately the  despair  that  comes  from  en-
forced idleness,  but  after  all  is  said  and
done,  the  greatest  blessings  that  will  ac-
crue from  the  Church  Security  Plan  are
spiritual.  Outwardly,  every  act  seems  to
be  directed  toward  the  physical:  re-making
of  dresses  and  suits  of  clothes,  canning
fruits  and  vegetables,  storing  foodstuffs,
choosing  of  fertile  fields  for  settlement —
all  seem  strictly  temporal,  but  permeating
all  these  acts,  inspiring  and  sanctifying
them,  is  the  element  of  spirituality  (Bow-
en,  Albert  E.:  The  Church  Welfare  PJan,
page  43-44).
From  my  own  viewpoint,  and
that  deep  down  in  my  heart,  I  am
everlastingly  grateful  to  my  Heaven-
ly Father  for  the  opportunity  I  have
had  to  participate  in  this  great  work.
It  will  not  be  too  long  until  some
of  us  can  celebrate  our  twentieth
anniversary  in  this  work.  Each  suc-
ceeding year  has  added  joy  and  satis-
faction to  that  of  the  past.  What  a
wonderful  heritage  welfare  workers
throughout  the  Church  have  stored
for  themselves  in  heaven  where
"neither  moth  nor  rust  doth  corrupt,
and  where  thieves  do  not  break
through  nor  steal"  (Mt.  6:20).  Not
the  least  of  these  treasures  has  been
the  close  association  with  men  and
women  whose  lives  have  likewise
been  dedicated  to  help  others,  and
especially  to  help  others  to  help
themselves.
I  know  what  it  is  to  assist  in  this
