RHAPSODY Martha Fereday Harrison
O Life! I hold you tight in my two hands. Eagerly I greet the glory of the dawn. Running over I fill the measure of each day. When day is done, I dress myself in colored streamers From the setting sun and veil of evening's mist. Along the milky way in silver ship of clouds I sail away to bathe my soul In sea of stars and magic of the moon. Then travel down the Lethe River of the dark; To sleepto dreamto wait The coming of another morn.
L. D. S. Girls and Women in Wartime Elder Milton Bennion General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union
WITH the call of young men of superior physical fitness to the armed forces for defense of their country against aggression, there goes very naturally an obligation on the part of women to give them all the aid and comfort that is within their power properly to give. Some of the younger women do this by enlisting as army nurses; others enlist in other branches of the service where women can be most helpful in support of the enlisted men. All of this is a very necessary and patriotic service when performed in ways that contribute not only to the physical welfare and morale of the men but also uphold the highest standards of moral and spiritual welfare. Otherwise, the association of women with the armed forces becomes a moral menace to both men and women, often bringing in its trail loathsome diseases that have proved to be one of the greatest liabilities to the successful prosecution of the war. This, however, damaging as it is, is a minor factor compared with the dire consequences both physical and moral, that follow for years or even for generations after the war has been won or lost. These conditions apply with equal force to girls and women who have no official connection with the fighting forces. Girls in their teens are
Page 606
entitled to the guardianship of parents, whose sympathy and wider experience should shield their girls from the temptations that all too often lead to the downfall of minors who are attracted by the glamour of military uniforms. This is not to infer that generally, men in uniform would take advantage of innocent girls but experience has shown that there are some who would do so. Girls associating with men who are strangers to them may at any time find themselves the objects of lust that may result in lifelong sorrow. The finest prospects for a happy and useful life may be ruined in a very brief time. This is the dark side of the picture. What of the bright side? There are in the military forces many fine young men; men fit to be the husbands of women of the purest minds and chaste lives. Should not all L. D. S. Women do everything within their power to help these young men to come out of their severe and trying experiences as sound in morals and religion as they were when they entered the service? Evidently it is their religious and patriotic obligation to do this; and also to protect themselves from becoming objects of the lust of men of loose morals. This also is a great service to their Church and their country.
(Continued on page 650)