An Appeal to Mothers Bishop Marvin O. Ashton Member of the Presiding Bishopric AN Appeal to You Mothers: As we contemplate the progress this Church is making in its buildings and their upkeep, we are very mindful of the major part you mothers are playing. Yes, in some locallities you are playing the leading role. When you set your mind on a project, things begin to move. If they don't move, you move them. When the United States was at war with Mexico and the Latter-day Saints were asked to raise a battalion, it is reported that Brigham Young said, "You shall have your battalion, and if there are not young men enough, we will take the old men, and if they are not enough, we will take the women.' Of course, the women didn't have to enlist, but in some of our programs of repairs to our mecting houses, our women do enlist. Women of the Relief Society, we want your help. We want you to insist that your place of worship be kept clean and attractive. We want you to demand of your stake and ward authorities that the buildings and all their facilities be kept just as up to date and clean as your kitchens. Mothers, the buildings where your children worship and where they get religious instruction, and where they are offered recreational opportunities, should be well furnished and up to date. While we appreciate that this is the condition of most of our chapels, there are still some dark corners in some of them that must be cleaned up. If Page 596 you mothers will insist on a clean-up, there will be one. We appeal to you. Expect it and you will get it. The bishop will appreciate your suggestions. 'Tell him what you want, and he will respect your wishes. Sentiment and public opinion are powerful. Here are a few things the mothers of the Church have a right to demand: Custodian _ There should be close cooperation and a feeling of harmony between the custodian and the people of the ward. The custodian should know what the different organizations in the ward require and should cater to their needs, but he has a right to expect proper support from the people. Mothers can help greatly in this respect. Paint It should be understood that tor years the Church has offered to buy the paint if the ward will put it on. No matter how humble a chapel may be, it should be kept well painted inside and out. Landscaping You mothers have a nght to cxpect ward grounds to be well landscaped, where water is available. If water is not availablethese cases are comparatively fewyou have a right to expect that weeds be kept down and dried: grass and debris cleared off. The general appearance of your building should say, "Come AN APPEAL TO MOTHERS 597 AS WITH THE CHURCH, SO WITH THE PEOPLE Is this just a dream?? In." It should appeal and not repel. May we say here very emphatically many Church buildings that now sit on a dry. Sand hill could be made a little garden spot if just a little ingenuity were used to bring water to the spot either by pipes or irrigation ditch. Generally, where there is a will there is a way. Furniture Mothers, if clumsy, roughly hewn benches and furniture are used in your chapel, you ought to sign a Declaration of Independence and have a Boston Tea Party. When the pioneers arrived, they had to do the best they could with what they had, but in these days you have a night to demand that the furniture represent your better selves. Rest Rooms Now we come to a matter in which we want your help in a special way. To be frank, many of these rooms even in our more expensive buildings area disgrace. Some of them show extreme neglect and even abuse. (Continued on page 619)