Periodic Medical Examinations of Apparently Healthy Persons
H. L. Marshall, M. D. Professor of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Medical School, University of Utah
HUMAN nature is characterized by many inconsistencies. One of them is the chasm which so often separates knowledge from actionknowing what should be done from actually doing it. Particularly is this often true in the management of our own human mechanism. Fears, prejudices, and indifference are usually stronger than knowledge. It is easier to follow one's feelings than one's reason.
Twenty years ago a member of the Public Relations Committee of the Pennsylvania Medical Society wrote, "The proposal that healthy people be examined at regular intervals for the purpose of preventing disease is notable for the logic of its theory and the slowness of its adoption."
In China it is said to have been a custom for clients to pay a physician regularly for keeping them well, but to stop payment and demand free treatment if the client became sick. In our Anglo-Saxon background the good old English Doctor Dobell suggested, in 1861, that much good could be accomplished and much harm prevented if physicians would carefully examine their patients before, instead of exclusively after, the symptoms of disease appeared.
In America, the most sustained attempt to popularize the practice of periodic medical examinations has been that of the organization known as the
Page 594
Life Extension Institute. Life insurance companies have been strong supporters of the practice, and some have used it on a large scale. The Army has adopted the practice of yearly examination of all officers, and schools are acting on the idea to an increasing extent. But, for adults in general, practice lags far behind conviction. Therefore, it is worth-while to consider the matter objectively. Mere persuasion offends the intelligence.
The human body, considered mechanistically, is an energy-liberating machine. It displays growth, development, and degeneration. It is subject to unfavorable changes of structure and function which lead to disability, pain, and death. These changes we call disease. Except in case of accident or violence, basic changes almost never develop suddenly. They are progressive and, for a considerable time, they usually produce no symptoms of which the person is aware.
Let us assume that a yardstick divided into thirty-six inches represents the whole process of a chronic (i.e. slow) disease. The left end of the rule marks the very first beginning of the morbid process; the right end marks the termination. Rarely does progress over the first few inches give any symptoms at all. Frequently, two-thirds of the distance may be covered with no symptoms definitely recognized by PERIODIC MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS OF APPARENTLY HEALTHY PERSONS the victim. Pain and disturbance of function are often confined to the last few inches. Too often medical contacts center entirely in the last inch. Inferences to be drawn from such knowledge are self-evident and perhaps would not be seriously debatable except at a convention of morons. The logic applies almost equally to a Ford car; however, the difference is that we can get new organs for a Ford when the originals are completely "shot," and, sometimes, we can even turn in the whole flivver on a new car. There are no turn-ins for the human mechanism and very few chances for either new or reconditioned parts. We make the run of life with one machine. It is the only one we have, and no one yet appears to have completed arrangements for another. If this were true of the Ford, how watchful we would be. How often would we have an expert examine itand how careful we would be to take his advice. The teeth represent one of the few "turn-ins for a new set" possible in the human body. And yet strangely enough, this is one of the few places where we are nearly all converted to the idea of regular examination before symptoms appear. Stranger still, perhaps, many of us actually live up to the idea in practice. If the process of disease we harbor is not contagious, then the matter is primarily a personal one. At least no one else is definitely endangered. But the process may be communicable (i.e., caused by living organisms which can be transferred from the ailing to the well); for example, tuberculosis and some stages of syphilis 595 . In that case, earliest possible recognition is comparable to detecting a concealed weapon on a gangster before it causes irreparable harm to him and also to his contacts. Obviously, reason and interpretation point to the desirability of careful medical examination of apparently healthy people. Is it possible, we may ask, to substantiate such reasoning by actual accomplishment? Without question it is; although all disease processes cannot yet be recognized in their early stages, and it must be clearly understood that some unforeseen deaths cannot be predicted by any present means at the disposal of medicine. To be specific let us start with the babyeven before it is born. Here the beneficial results of regular medical examination throughout pregnancy are so vitalboth to mother and childthat mere mention of the point is sufficient. Thousands of lives are thereby saved yearly. As for the period of babyhood, the practice of pediatrics (i.e., child specialists) has grown up around -the idea of medical care to prevent rather than exclusively to cure sickness. Formerly the luxury of medical guidance to keep a baby well was practiced only by the rich. Increasingly, it is becoming a routine to people of moderate means, and now in larger centers "well baby clinics" serve the poor at nominal cost and the destitute at public expense. In Utah fifty years ago the annual infant mortality rate ranged around 200. This means that one out of every five babies born alive died before reaching its first birthday. Now the infant mortality rate runs 30 to 40. (Continued on page 614)