A CANDY HOUSE FOR CHRISTMAS The house can be made in various sizes, with ''luscious'' landscaping, and with an amazing number of decorative motifs and figurines readily available. Many such ''color and crystal'? Houses are made of a combination of edible and inedible ''ingredients,"' and if the making of the house and arranging its setting can be a family project, each child will participate with great originality. The Setting: For the groundwork, use a large tray, a piece of glass, a box top, or a piece of heavy cardboard, depending upon the size of the house and the extensiveness and type of landscaping. The Ground Cover may be white confetti, cotton or wool batting, styrofoam, or such edible materials as popcorn or icing made by one of the recipes included with these directions. The creative Christmas homemaker will think of many variations. The ''snow'' can be heaped into hills, formed: into stream channels, or heaped up around a little lake or pond or skating rink. The water can be represented by a clear surface of the foundation glass or tray, or a piece of aluminum foil can be cut to an appropriate shape. Even a piece of blue tissue paper can be used as surface for a pool or to outline the course of a stream. Decorating the landscape: Fences, grottos, paths, trellises, trees, figurines (of Santa Claus, carolers, reindeer, Wise Men, shepherds) may be arranged to make the scene glow with Christmas atmosphere. For steps and paths, for edging the lake or the stream, use small or large marshmallows or a combination of both in various colors, or try a design of jelly mints (square or rectangular or round) or use the ''rock candies,'' which so closely resemble real stones. For fences, try licorice sticks, stick candy, or make a 'wheel' fence of small doughnuts or cookies pressed halfway into the "snow.'' Cranberries or Maraschino cherries can be fitted into a matrix made of icing. The figurines may be dolls, carolers, Wise Men, shepherds, Santa Claus, sleighs, skaters, or reindeer, and they may be made of candy, cookie dough, or they may be ceramics. Colorful Christmas motifs can be cut from last year's Christmas cards and pressed into the ''snow'' foundation, or the people from cutout books can be assembled. Trees may be made of cookie dough and decorated with glistening sparkle candies, or they may be cut from craft paper, or clipped from the trimmed branches of the big Christmas tree. Making the house: Use a cardboard box or carton (turned upside down) in the size desired for the walls of the house and cut doors and windows. The sloping roof and the gabled ends, as well as the chimney, can be cut from cardboard and fastened securely together with adhesive tape. For filling in the window spaces, use light blue paper or aluminum foil, or if the house is small, pieces of flat candy can become windows. A little door can be made by covering a piece of cardboard with foil or cutting the dimensions from colored heavy-grade craft paper, or a door can be shaped from cookie dough. Cover the house thickly with icing made from one of the following recipes, or use a recipe of your own. Be sure that the icing contains syrup or egg white, so that the decorations will stick to the surface. If either of these icings is used for snow, the icing can be a little less solid. The icing used to cover the house must be quite solid. The texture can be easily adjusted by adding confectioners' sugar for making the icing thicker, or adding white syrup or beaten egg whites for making it thinner. Then assemble your variety of colorful candies or candied fruits or fresh cranberries, or Maraschino cherries, nuts or raisins, and decorate your Christmas house with anticipation and originality. NO COOK FONDANT 1/3 cup soft butter or margarine 1/3 cup light corn syrup 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 4 1/2 cups (1 pound) sifted confectioners' sugar Blend shortening, light corn syrup, salt and vanilla in large mixing bowl. Add sifted confectioners' sugar all at onee. Mix all together — first, with a spoon; then with hands, knead dry ingredients. Turn onto board and continue kneading until mixture is well blended and smooth. Makes about 1 1/3 pounds. Store in a cool place until ready for use. MARSHMALLOW ICING 3/4 cup granulated sugar 2 envelopes ~unflavored gelatin 2/3 cup cold water 1 cup light corn syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla extract | Blend sugar and gelatin in saucepan, stir in water. - Place. 'over low sheat, stirring until sugar and gelatin are dissolved. Pour light. Corn syrup. In a large bowl (3 to 4-quart) of electric mixer or mix by hand. Add vanilla, gelatin, and sugar mixture to light corn syrup, and beat about 15 minutes or.. Until mixture. Becomes thick and of a marshmallow consistency.