[WomansExponent | Vol14 | 1885 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: WHAT OF SCIENCE? | Author: M. E. K]

WHAT OF SCIENCE?
	Would you suppose for a moment that per-
sons well educated, those who had arrived at
great attainments in science, could doubt the
existence of a God, an  alwise Ruler or Crea-
tor of this vast universe, with all its varieties,
which charm the eye and gladden the soul?
	I do not believe that any sane person would
become an infidel because of his education, un-
less he obtained it just to make a show and ac-
complish some special object. Such a charac-
ter would serve the God of this world and look
no higher, accordingly could not enjoy the in-
spiration which a higher aim would bring to
him.	
	But one who studies to benefit himself will
benefit others, and also appreciate every facul-
ty of mind and body which has been given
him, as also the fountain of light and intelli-
gence, from which knowledge is obtained and
through which those faculties are developed.
Could such a one doubt the existence of a
Creator? No!no! He would increase in love
and admiration as he advanced in science.
Knowing everything is governed by laws,
there must have been a great first cause or de-
signer, whose purposes are beyond our compre-
hension, yet not beyond the reach of obtaining
that intelligence if we live aright and persevere,
honestly to ourselves and our aspirations, ever
upward and onward. Then we gain little by
little, for such are our capacities.
	Only a short time ago a young lady
read to me a lecture by a reverend
gentleman, delivered in Brooklyn. He quoted
Scripture fluently, and correctly,too; but what
did he do with it? I listened with disgust
while he took passages given in the Old Testa-
ment by the prophets to govern society at that
time, and again in the days of Jesus and His
disciples, which every lover of true principle
venerates, and made them clash in the most
ridiculous manner. "Why," said the lady,
“does not he quote it correctly?'  “Well,” I
replied,‘I will answer you by asking a ques-
tion. The furniture in this room is all useful,
and ornamental, too. If I should take this
lamp and dash it at the mirror, and a chair at
the sewing machine and take the dishes and
dash them at everything else in the room, what
would be the result?” "Confusion,” she re-
plied. "Yes, and destruction, too,” said I”
“That lecture,” said I, “has the same effect on
the human mind. It may answer for fun and
pastime for those who are given up to frivoli-
ty, but it would lead to lunacy. It will con-
fuse, you will admit; you would expect him to
give you a more beautiful picture, but he
leaves you without anything to love or admire
in our Heavenly Father’s words; and yet, the
young and thoughtless will listen and drink
into such absurdities, and grow reckless. May
put young people become more sound in mind
and pure in principles, is my prayer.
	This scientific preacher has so perverted the
Bible that I would never wish to read it, if I
had not previously read if for myself, I am
thankful, however, that I have a knowledge of
its contents, and I know that this popular
scientific lecturer quotes correctly. But why
did he study it so thoroughly? Was it only
to pervert its sacred pages? for sacred it surely
is to those who have learned the two spirits—
the good and the evil. To those who know
the Lord hears and answers prayer as He did
in the days in which the Bible was written; to
those wno have been healed by the prayer of
faith, and have been blessed, even as Job was,
and suffered, also, almost as Job suffered, know-
ing not believing only, that this has been done
in wisdom to prove the faithful Saint, for such
may one well be called who lives in accord-
ance with the law of Christ. Such an one
learns for a surety that He is the same yester-
day, to-day and forever.  Those who lived be-
fore Christ learned the same lesson by obey-
ing the laws of God given to them, and thus
understood the struggle between good and evil;
accordingly they had their experience recorded
for the benefit of their children, and others 
who should come after.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Since this noted preacher has learned so
much of the spirit of the world, and how to
please the world, by recklessly destroying and
misconstruing that which was given us for
good, to keep our feet in the straight and
narrow path, he should learn as much of the
opposite spirit, and I would promise him if he
would be as diligent in the pursuit as he has
been in the other, he would be a wiser and a
better man. He might even become as great
as St. Paul was, if his desires are to serve God
in all that he does, as St. Paul did.
	My sincere prayer is that he may become
acquainted with that good spirit which the
Savior said belonged to little children. Had
he died when a child he would have inherited
a glory which he will lose if he does not re-
form and seek after the wisdom and intelli-
gence he so much needs. After rooting out
iniquity, he needs wisdom and intelligence to
give all things their proper value, and also
their proper place. When he can do this he
will find that he has not lived in vain; he will
then be so happy he will wish to live forever,
and the righteous have this promise, while the
wicked must taste the second death, because
they choose evil, though they were made good,
and choose to follow the workers of darkness,
in preference to those of light and greater in-
telligence. It may be that this lecturer will
tire in this pursuit and want something better.
	Too many of our young people have swal-
lowed this rubbish because the gilded bait was
science. We are all lovers of science, but
while we admire the principles which control,
and the laws which govern the universe, shall
we ignore the Author of all this stupendous
machinery, which moves in such perfect har-
mony? No! no! Those who know Him most
should admire and love Him best.
	The Bible has always been a source of
pleasure and satisfaction to me, because written
for our guidance when the opposite spirit ap-
pears, for we must inevitably meet the opposite
while in our sojourn here, and it strengthens
us if we know we are right. In the common
affairs of life we cannot always tell a servant
to do the same thing at  another time, but we act ac-
cording to circumstances, and our Heavenly
Father does the same, and all for the good of
His erring children.
	The Lord always gives light and intelligence
to a people whose hearts are right, and minds
pure before Him. And now, since there is a
people upon the earth who are determined to
serve Him to the best of their abilities, behold,
how much light has been given to the human
family in the last fifty years. Shall we not
acknowledge His hand in all this, or shall we
say, my own skill did it?
	If we cannot acknowledge the hand of an
alwise Parent in the discoveries of science to-
day, I fear that darkness will overwhelm us
again; and if it does it will be because of our
stupidity in not acknowledging the hand of
God in all things.
	A people who will not do this - what need
they expect, and in fact what do they deserve,
if they possess so much vanity that they take
all the glory to themselves? And again, the
Lord has promised that "in the last days He
would pour out His Spirit upon all flesh," etc.
I would advise those who wish to treat the
subject indifferently, to read the thirteenth
chapter of St. Matthew, beginning at the
thirty-eighth verse, and reflect.
	M. E. K.
	July 15, 1885.


