[Vol1 | November 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL. "OUR THANKSGIVING." It may seem somewhat selfish for the people of the United States to be offering up thanks for peace and plenty, when the whole civilized world is filled with riot, carnage and distress.
It may also seem selfish in the individual, who dedicates one day a year to the public giving of thanks for personal peace and prosperity, while his neighbor may be suffering poverty and sickness.
Distress, like health, is a relative condition; the poor of any land may well be thankful for such blessings as they possess, while the rich and prosperous may sometimes bear other burdens quite as grievous as poverty or sickness.
Only the Creator of us all may decide fully which are our blessings, and which are our distresses.
A trial that may seem most grievous to be borne can easily have a pure and exalting effect upon the individual or the nation.
Riches and success too often produce most lamentable effects upon persons as well as upon peoples.
All in all, every person on this earth has reason to give thanks to the Creator for life upon the earth.
Life is the greatest gift of God to man.
How it shall be used and developed to the highest point, is a lesson which has as much to do with sickness, distress and poverty as it has to do Avith prosperity, health and success.
When the sisters of the Relief Society offer up their thanks, this Thanksgiving month, let us be grateful lor some of the large gifts which belong to us all alike.
Let us be grateful for life upon the earth for comparative health, or. for an instructive faith-promoting illness; for the bounteous crops of garden and farm, whether our share thereof be much or little; for liberty of conscience, and for the agency which permits us to travel ever upward, albeit we ever go in a zig-zag and irregular climb let us be thankful for citizenship in this wonderful country, where the will of the individual is subordinate to the good of the whole people.
Above all, let us give thanks for a membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, where liberty, love, and peace are daily possibilities, no matter what circumstances or conditions may surround us.
For all these things, then, we offer up our thanks to the Giver of all Good, while we pray for similar blessings to descend upon all God's children everywhere.
BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 5 November