VOL. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1898. No. 7.


CONTENTS:
	The Women R solve. Clara Barton for Wo-
man’s Suffrage. Brig am Young—Eleanor
Fowler. Hannah T. King Remembered—L L.
Greene Richards. We Mothers—L. L. Greene
Richards. A Good Letter—Mary Baxter. Wood-
ruff Stake Conference—Katie Snowbal'. Reflec-
tions of M. E K. R. S. Report. In Memoriam.
Ladies Semi-monthly Meeting.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman’s Vote and Home In-
dustries. Thoughts About War and Peace.
Birthday Party.
	POETRY:—Ceuta—Augusta Joyce C[-]ocheron.
The Conteen’s Work—Martha Shepard Lippinott.


CEUTA.

THE BLOT OF THE EARTH.

When the nation answered Spain
To her cry at last for peace,
There’s something more than the "Maine”
Or the Island’s blest release;
Not conquest, and not glory,
No matter how great they be—
There is another story
For thy Sword O, Liberty!

Where the tropic heat down pours,
And the sea sends up its moan
Forever against the shores
Grim tow’ring cliffs of stone,
’Neath the Fortress guns and walls
And the flag that proudly waves—
Hear! the human cry that calls
From countless living graves!

For the hearts that dared to beat
With the dreams of liberty,
For the lips that dared repeat
The story of the free,
For the hand that dared to raise
The banner that led men on—
Broke the tyrant’s wrath ablaze
And hope—and life—were gone!

Give tears for the famine-slain
And those who fighting fell;
Love’s eyes pitied their pain
And gave them love’s farewell;
The green earth ’neath their feet,
The wide sky over head—
O! death like that were sweet
And restful in their bed. 

But—walled alive in the rock
And bound erect with chains, 
While hate their doom doth mock
As long as life remains;
Then the hands reach up no more
For the water and the bread—
Forever is sea'ed the door
Above the Patriot dead.

For this—did the mothers bear
Fair daughters and brave sons?
O, Freedom! wheresoe’er
Old Spain’s long record runs,
The soul that dared adore
Visions of Liberty,
Hath won the hope, no more,
And died in shame for Thee!

Does America forget
The cruel Bastile’s fall,
And how brave LaFayette
From the broken, burning wall
Brought forth the great iron key,
Proud France’s blood stained one;
And sent it across the sea
To our great Washington?


Ah! may the Fortress wa[-]ls
	Of Ceuta be broken down,
While tyranny deeper falls 
	Till none shall bow to the crown.
May shackle and chain and cell
	Yield forth to Liberty,
And our children live to tell—
	America keeps the Key!
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, August, 1898.


THE WOMEN RESOLVE.
	The Woman's Suffrage Association of
Utah county held a meeting August 30, in
Provo. About forty or fifty ladies were in
attendance, four towns outside of Provo
being represented, and regrets were received
from Springville ladies, who were unable
to be present on account of the funeral of
Mrs. Geo. Gifford. The following resolu-
tions were adopted:
	Whereas, An informal understanding has
been sought to be effected between the two
political parties eliminating women from
the state and county tickets at the next
election; and
	Whereas women, have been named as
a weakness upon the ticket and charged
with lacking executive ability and being
the enemy of women refusing to vote for
them, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we the suffragists of
Utah county, in convention assembled, in
view of these publications and utterances of
the press, repudiate the sentiments attri-
buted to women and protest against the
measures proposed.
	Resolved, That we demand a more com-
plete and just recognition and representa-
tion in some measure adequate to the num-
ber of votes which we cast.
	Resolved, That heretofore in consequence
of women relying upon the honor of their
parties for proper and just recognition and
representation, have desisted from active
work for the advancement of women, out-
side of political parties, and whereas we
have been charged with being the enemy
of our own sex, we hereby pledge ourselves
to refute such charges by active work and
public expression, believing that eternal
vigilance is the price of liberty; and be it
further
	Resolved, That we are ready to meet the
official records of women holding office now
provided the records of men elected at the
same time be as closely scanned and placed
parallel.


[Column 1]
CLARA BARTON FOR WOMAN’S
SUFFRAGE.

Clara Barton appealed to the veterans to
vote for woman’s suffrage, many years ago
as follows:
When you were weak and I was strong,
I toiled for you. Now you are strong and
 I am weak. Because of my work for you
ask your aid. I ask the ballot for my-
self and my sex. As I stood by you, I
pray you stand by me and mine.

[Column 2]
At the Annual Festival of the New Eng-
land Woman Suffrage Association, in
Music Hall, Boston, May 1888, Miss Bar-
ton, then, as now, president of the Red
Cross, said in part:

Mrs. President, Gentlemen and Ladies:

It was a surprise to me that my opinions
either way should be held of sufficient im-
portance to be mentioned. What difference
could it make to others what I approved or
disapproved, believed or disbelieved in?
But as I reflected upon it, it did occur to
me that perhaps it ought to be of sufficient
importance to myself to induce me to take
the opportunity which offers at this mo-
ment, to make my record a trifle more clear
if possible, and this will require very little
time.
I believe I must have been born be-
lieving in the full right of woman to all
the privileges and positions which nature
and justice accord to her in common with
other human beings. Perfectly equal
rights—human rights. There was never
any question in my mind in regard to this.
I did not purchase my freedom with a price;
was born free, and when as a younger
woman I heard the subject discussed, it
seemed simply ridiculous that any sensible,
rational person should question it. And
when later the phase of woman's right to
suffrage came up, it was to me only a part
of the whole, just as natural, just as right,
and just as certain to take place.
And whenever I have been urged, as a
petitioner, to ask for this privilege for wo-
man a kind of dazed, bewildered feeling has
come over me.
Of whom should I ask this privilege?
Who possessed the right to confer it? Who
had greater right than woman herself?
Was it man, and if so where did he get it ?
Who conferred it upon him ? He depended
upon woman for his being, his very exist-
ence, nurture and rearing. More fitting
that she should have conferred it upon him.
Was it governments? What were they
but the voice of the people? What gave
them their power? Was it divinely con-
ferred? Alas! no; or they would have
been better, purer, more just and stable.
Was it force of arms-war? Who furn-
ished the warriors? Who but the mothers?
Who reared the sons and taught that liberty
and their country were worth their blood?
Who gave them up, wept their fall, nursed
them in suffering and mourned them dead?
Was it labor? Women have always, as
a rule, worked harder than men.
Was it capital ? Woman has furnished
her share up to the present hour. Who
then can give her the right, and on what
basis? Who can withhold it ?
Any attempt on my part to elaborate up-
on the arguments so ably and fully made
by the honored and veteran thinkers and
orators about me—men and women who
have taught the world in the science of the
principles they proclaim, would be simply
piesumption, and but for one circumstance
I should not occupy the little moment
which I propose to do, but would at once


give way to our honored guests from other
lands.
	But within the last few days I have ob-
served two press notices of myself contain-
ing statements which to persons unaccus-
tomed to the marvelous elasticity of the
American press, might seem difficult to rec-
oncile. One notice was to the effect that
“Miss Clara Barton, who is announced to
be present at the woman’s suffrage conven-
tion at Boston, is a lady of foreign birth
but a firm believer in woman’s rights, and
a pronounced suffragist.” The other said
that “It is a significant sign of the broad-
ening of the woman question, that Miss
Clara Barton is announced among the
speakers of the Boston Suffrage Convention,
as she is known to be very conservative, if
not actually opposed to woman suffrage.”
	The first thing that interested me was the
fact that I had lost my nativity. I could
not clearly understand how I did it, but the
shock was softened somewhat by remember-
ing that a few days previous a Philadelphia
reporter complimented me by saying that I
“presided over a certain meeting ably and
gracefully, and spoke with very little ac-
cent.”
	In regard to my nationality, I was born
in the old Huguenot town of Oxford, Mass., 
U. S. A.  My father and mother were born
there. My grandfathers and grandmothers,
with two exceptions, were born, lived, 
died and were buried there.
	There is, once in a while, a monarch 
who denies the right of man to place a crown
upon his head. Only the Great Jehovah
can crown and anoint him for his work, and
he reaches out, takes the crown and places
it upon his head with his own hand. I sus-
pect that this is in effect what woman is doing 
today. Virtually there is no one to give her
the right to govern herself, as men govern 
themselves by self-made and self-approved
laws of the land. But in one way or anoth-
er, sooner or later, she is coming to it.
And the number of thoughtful and right-
minded men who will oppose, will be much
smaller than we think; and when it is really 
an accomplished fact, all will wonder, as I 
have done, what the question ever was.
	—Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	One of the noblest men who has lived
since the time of Jesus Christ is our own
great leader, Brigham Young. He and
Joseph Smith were two of the greatest
and purest characters that had lived for
years. Had it not been for Brigham
Young it is quite likely that many more of
the Saints would have been persecuted and
killed; but when he gave the word and
led the way westward, many were soon
ready to take it up and follow their glorious
and inspired leader. It was he who was in-
spired to stop in the Salt Lake valley, and
under his supervision the energetic pioneers
went to work and the land was made “to
blossom as the rose."
	Nor did he stop here, he and his people
built up a State fabric with three hundred
cities and settlements, networked with rail-
roads and the electric telegraph; then it was
that his name rang throughout America and
echoed in Europe as “the Moses of the
latter days,” and the Mormon people were
likened to the children of Israel in the
wilderness. This is a true comparison for
he led them from their persecuters and took
them into a land of promise, as Moses did

[Column 2]
the children of Israel and always gave the
praise and honor to God.
	Not only was he loyal to his God, but
he was also loyal to the government. At
his request the stars and stripes were set
waving from Ensign Peak when the
pioneers first entered the valley. He was
also ready to form the Battalion when
called upon, and a more loyal band never
fought for their country’s cause than those
under the Mormon Battalion. Although
this man was oppressed by the government
no man, I dare say, ever heard him de-
nounce it for this. Instead his desire was
for the preservation and upbuilding of his
country.
	How fitting is it that a monument has
been erected in his memory and placed in
the most prominent place in Salt Lake
City, near the place where he stuck his
staff in the ground and said: “Here shall
we build the temple of our God.” How
our little hearts thrilled as we passed this
beautitul monument and cast our flowers
as tokens of love on the pedestal amid the
cheers of the gazing multitude, during the
recent Pioneer Jubilee.
	But did our great prophet care for the
little children while he was on earth? In-
deed he did, and he was a great lover of
them too. Through the kindness of my
beloved president I had the pleasure of
reading one of his last addresses to the
children. It was delivered to the Sunday
School children in the new Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City, July 24, 1877, and it was
published in the Deseret News, August 8,
1877. It impresses one with such beauti-
ful sentiments that I should like all to
hear it, but it is too long to rewrite here.
In the first part of the sermon he explained
to them why they were born in this far off
land, then he follows with some beautiful
counsel. He told them to remember
this counsel, observe it, and carry it out
throughout their lives.
	He begins this counsel by instructing
them in regard to the first commandments,
and of the nature of the personages of God
and Jesus Christ. Then he says: “Obey
your parents and learn the ways of the
Lord in your youth, and continue therein
all the days of your life that you may be
prepared for that higher state of glory that
awaits the faithful children of our God.”
He next blessed the children and expressed
his love for them in the following words:
“I say to all, God bless you my children,
my little ones. I love you, I am a great
lover of children and innocence and purity,
and I am a hater of iniquity just as much
so as the Lord, and perhaps more than I
should be.”
	His sermon was concluded by the follow-
ing remarks: “Spend the Sabbath day
prudently in the love and fear of God. Try
to adopt in your whole lives that code of
morals which our religion teaches and
which we urge upon the people. God
bless you. Amen.”
	So how dearly should we as children of
God, love a leader who has loved and done
so much for us; for truly Brigham Young
was a wise, good and honest man.
	ELEANOR FOWLER, aged ten years.
Read at the Mill Creek ward Primary
annual meeting, June 1, 1898.


It is not enough to have great qualities;
we must also have the management of them.
—Rochefoucauld.


HANNAH T. KING REMEMBERED.
A very enjoyable little meeting was held
in memory of Sister H. T. King on the
afternoon of August 15, 1898.
	The quiet, pleasant home of Sister Sarah
M. Kimball was the place selected for the
gathering. As the affair was suddenly
thought of and hastily arranged, but a
small matter was anticipated and made of
it. Only a few of the intimate friends and
warm admirers of Sister King could be
called in, previous engagements and ab-
sence from the city preventing the atten-
dance of quite a number who would other-
wise have been present.
The conversation carried on informally
was largely of a religious and spiritual
character, Sisters Zina D. H. Young and
S.M. Kimball giving many gems of wis-
dom, strength, comfort and encouragement
to the younger participants.
Reminiscences of the days of the proph-
ets, Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Heber
C. Kimball and others of their associates, in
connection with memoirs from the life of
Sister King and quotations from her in-
spired writings all contributed to the form-
ing of a beautiful memorial offering to the
gifted lady in whose honor the meeting
was called.
A suitable repast was daintily served by
Misses Lizzie Kimball and Miss Granger,
(Sister Kimball’s granddaughter,)and much
enjoyed by the company.
Although in her eightieth year and deli-
cate in health, physically, Sister Sarah M.
Kimball’s mind and memory are wonder-
fully acute and active, and her colloquial
powers such as to ensure a rich treat and
valuable points of instruction in some lines,
to any one who may have the happiness to
spend a half hour in her presence. Among
those who were thus favored and who con-
tributed to the pleasure of the occasion on
the day above mentioned, were Sisters John
Alford, Harriet T. Badger, Lydia D. Alder,
Persis Y. Richards, Mary Gray and L. L.
Greene Richards.

L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


I think women capable of a great deal
more work than they have been accustomed
to in times past. If overwork sometimes
leads them to disease, it is morally more
wholesome to work into it than to lounge
into it.—Sir Spencer Wells.
	Mrs. Meynell, the poet, declines to draw
a mental line between men and women.
“It is not so much a question of men and
women,” she says, “as of individuals.
Many women are wofully lacking in obser-
vation and decidedly dull in perception
while, on the other hand, many men fail
miserably in reasoning power, and many
women excel in it.” Mrs. Meynell is a
suffragist.
	Lady Huggins is as gifted an astronomer
as was Caroline Herschel or Maria Mitchel.
It was her profound and self-acquired
knowledge of this science that attracted to
the unassuming Irish lady the brilliant
astronomer, Sir William Huggins. Lady
Huggins has not sought favor for herself
but is content to be her husband’s assistant,
and every night she works in their observa-
tory by his side. To her is due a share of
the honor acheived by Sir William for his
discovery by means of the spectroscope, of
the composition of the heavenly bodies.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE CANTEEN’S WORK.

My boy! my boy! and is it thus,
Thou to thy mother hast come back,
To thus disgrace thyself and her?
A drunkard and disorderly,
Thou who were e'er thy mother's pride.
O, God! it surely cannot be!
My boy cannot be so debased;
For he was ever pure and brave
And never drank or smoked or swore,

When just a few short months ago,
To serve his country, he left me,
Declaring he would bravely fight
For God and for humanity.
This drunken youth, is it my boy ?
My boy who was so pure and true,
It surely, surely cannot be,
My country e’er would send him thus
Back to his mother’s arms again.
He, for his country went to fight,
And would she tempt him go astray.
And let canteens destroy his soul,
When her protection I should trust,
And give my boy into her care?
Could she betray my confidence
And not look after my dear boy,
When from my care I let him go
To honor and to serve her name?
When mother’s gave their sons to her
Pure, innocent and free from shame,
Would she allow temptations stand
In places where our youth would go?
Would she not try to save their souls,
When human lives they offered her,
To help their country win her cause?
How could such degradation be,
If she protected as she should?
And oh! what misery may come
From her allowing careless ways
To those whose mothers are not near,
To shield their boys from Satan’s wiles.
What sorrow, for the after years,
One lost soul, in a home, may bring,
Far worse than many dear lives lost
In honoring their country’s name;
They are not lost, but only gone
To wait for us at heaven’s gate;
But the lost soul, what misery
‘Twill cause the mother’s heart to feel,
What disappointed hopes and grief
it brings to every one that loved.
How could a country ask for men
And send back drunkards in their place?
O, Father! comfort mother’s hearts
That have been broken as mine is,
He was my only, dear, sweet child,
Now worse than childless I shall be.
Would for his country’s sake he’d died,
And onward sped his soul to God,
To wait till I should be called home,
And meet him in the spirit land.
But now it breaks my heart to think
His soul forever may be lost.
Oh! Father, pray reclaim him yet,
His heart, I know, cannot be bad,
’Tis only vile temptation’s rule
That drags his soul down in the mire,
Oh! strengthen, shield him with thy arm,
That ever has the power to save.
Oh!  hear his mother’s earnest prayer
And save my boy from moral death. 

MARTH SHEPARD LIPPINCOTT.
Moorestown, N. J.


[Column 1]
WE MOTHERS.

II.
	Where are the boys when the Curfew
rings? Some of the children who should
be in bed a few moments after the sounding
of the curfew, steal out of somewhere and

[Column 2]
go prowling about, as if there could be
pleasure in doing wrong by breaking a law.
	Where are the mothers of such children?
Is it possible that any mother can be so
tired as to go to bed and to sleep while her
child is out in the world, she knows not
where, when he should be safely tucked in
bed ere she retired to her rest? There is a
way some mothers have of getting their
children to come home when they do not
know where to look for them, or are unable
to go in search of them.
	The mother prays that the good angel
attendant upon her child may direct him
home, and in a very short time the child is
with her. She cannot scold him then.
She is too thankful to her Father to allow
herself to find fault with His child and her
own. Instead of reproaches she gives the
child her confidence. Tells him how she 
has been praying for him to be reminded
by his guardian angel that he ought to be
at home. Tells him, tearfully perhaps, of
the anxiety she has felt for him and asks
him pathetically if he will not try in future
not to make her feel so worried and unhap-
py. He promises solemnly that he will try
to make her feel happy instead of miserable.
He does try for a long time after that to
keep his promise, and succeeds wonderfully
well. But after a while he forgets or is too
strongly tempted, and he stays out too late
again.
	This time the mother goes and hunts him
up. Finding him in the company of sever-
al others who ought like her own son to be
home, she does not humiliate and antagon-
ize him by telling him before his play-
fellows what an ungrateful, naughty boy
he is getting to be; or give the rebellious
“enemy of his soul” an occasion to nab
him and cause him to fling back vicious
words at her, for commanding him to
“Take himself home at once!” She stands
by a moment, watching the game if it is
continued, or listens if any one speaks;
then tells the group what o’clock it is, and
asks her son to say good night to his com-
rades and go home with her. He hesitates
but a moment, and then cheerfully com-
plies with his mother’s request. On the
way home the mother and son counsel
together; deeper impressions are fixed upon
the boy’s mind than formerly; he makes
more binding promises than before, to be
still longer and more conscientiously kept.
	A few such lessons suffice to keep the
boy at least within the purview of the
mother’s knowledge, until he reaches a
stage of self control, or self responsibility,
which relieves her in a measure of the
greater responsibility she has hitherto felt
the weight of too keenly for her own com-
fort. We mothers get paid for watching
our boys and praying for them, if we get
paid for anything we undertake in life.
	Is there another subject upon which we
can exchange ideas, opinions and experi-
ences with so much interest and profit as
the rearing of our children? What if we
do have (what our mothers had not) the
benefits of the Kindergarten, Sunday School,
Primary and Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation? Our children should still pass a
portion of their time, perhaps a half of it,
other than when they are asleep, at home
with their mothers.
	And we mothers, if love does not prompt
us to see to it that the time our children
spend with us is as pleasantly and usefully
spent as any other portion of their lives, a
sense of duty should urge us on to exerting

[Column 3]
ourselves to the end that we shall be the 
most suitable companions that our children
can find.
	We need not be always correcting or
even instructing our children when they
are in our presence, in order to prove our-
selves capable mothers. At least, much
that may be necessary for us to say to
them, or require of them, need not be of-
fered in the form of reproof or instruction.
We may often play, sing, talk, read and
laugh with our little ones, and find delight-
ful and healthful amusement in these
things, for ourselves as well as for them.
And some amusement is necessary for all.
	No class of beings in the world need
more to keep what God loves, “cheerful
hearts and glad countenances,” than do we
mothers.
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


A GOOD LETTER.

Dear Sister Wells:
	Please find enclosed one dollar subscrip-
tion for the present volume of the “Expon-
ent,” always a welcome visitor, to me it
contains many rich gems of sublime thought
and inspiration. I delight to read and know
what the sisters of this and other lands are
doing, their methods and manner of con-
ducting their meetings, also the testimon-
es of the handmaids of the Lord in this dis-
pensation, truly the progressiveness of the
work of our Heavenly Father in this direc-
tion is marvelous in our eyes and we can
truly say with Sister Woodmansee,

“Oh blest was the day when the prophet and
	seer
Who stands at the head of this last dispens[-]tion,
Inspired from above by the Father of love,
Formed the daughters of Zion’s great organiza-
	tion
Its purpose indeed, is to comfort and feed
The honest and poor in distress and in need,
Oh the daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor
Are examples of faith, hope and charity pure.”

	I am very much pleased with Sister Han-
nah Sorensen’s letter and her success as a
participant in the Mothers’ Congress of
Motherhood, a very important and needful
education.
	In reading the lines of the Sable Messen- 
ger in the present issue, by Sister Lu Dal-
ton, it brought forcibly tho’ sadly to
mind an incident in my own experience.
	I had a danghter taken from me aged,
eighteen and a half years, after a long sick-
ness we talked of many things concerning
the spirit world, she was a brave, noble
girl and the kind, encouraging words she
spoke to me are too sacred to be drawn forth
from the sacred recesses of a mother’s heart.
But she said to me, “Mother there is one
thing I don’t like to die for and that is I
will have no mother there.” I referred her
to Sister Eliza’s hymn and also reminded
her that her father had gone before her
when she was a little child and would no
doubt be waiting to embrace her with out-
stretched arms; this filled her soul with
peace.
	There is no death, it is only a change to
a brighter, holier sphere where we meet the
loved ones gone before, truly life and im-
mortality has been brought to life through
the Gospel revealed to Joseph Smith in this
dispensation.
					MARY BAXTER. 
	Spanish Fork, August 17, 1898.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY SEPTEMBTR 1, 1898.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S VOTE AND HOME
INDUSTRIES.

	In view of the momentous questions now
pending one cannot help wondering if the
women of this State are aware of the great
opportunity open before them in having
equal suffrage. Do they realize the re-
sponsibility for good or ill that this precious
boon has given them? They are undoubt-
edly half the voting population of the entire
State; were they to unite on any proposi-
tion they could carry it, there is not a doubt.
As soon as anything goes wrong it is
noticable how quick people are ready to say
“the women did it.” Therefore it would
seem “the women” must study carefully
the questions of the day, and particularly
the needs of their own locality, and the new
conditions that have come through state-
hood, and its relations to the general
government under which they live and of
which the people profess to be so proud.
There are many problems confronting the
people today and they must be taken
seriously. Women have the ballot in these
intermountain states and the women in
other parts of the Republic, not so highly
favored, expect something of this privi-
lege granted to a few. Something that
will help them; a brilliant example of
superior wisdom in dealing with important
matters; we in Utah are being watched in
the course we pursue with this great gift
bestowed upon us; we are like a light set
on a hill, to give light to those around,
therefore the women of Utah must take
heed to their ways, and should make a rec-
ord now in this coming campaign that they
will be proud of, and that will help woman-
kind everywhere the world over.
	There is always counsel to be obtained
for those who are at sea upon subjects that
seem doubtful, and the scripture tells us,
“Where there is no counsel the people fall;
but in the multitude of counselors there is
safety.” Those who have labored for
years to secure the ballot and equal rights
for women are not likely to rest satisfied,
when their claims to recognition are not
conceded, and will by such methods as
seem proper and available declare their
equality in matters that pertain to their
welfare as citizens.
	Men have so long held supremacy in the
political world that it is perhaps difficult for
them to allow woman her share, and even
a very small proportion appears to be given
grudgingly, and where common courtesy
would suggest at least a semblance of will-

[Column 2]
ingness to do her justice even that has been
found wanting in certain places. Some
men seem to forget that women helped to
found this State, that for a number of years
they had the ballot, and that those who
took part in primaries and conventions in
those days learned a few lessons in regard
to the manipulation of matters of public
weal.
	Another day has dawned on Utah and
under different circumstances, and women
have been entrusted with sacred rights and
privileges in the matter of government,
and it is their imperative duty to perform
their part well that no blame shall attach to
them through blundering at a time when
the well-being and prosperity of the com-
munity is at stake.
	One of the most important considerations
in the coming campaign is and should be
the fostering of and protecting home indus-
tries upon which the future of the people
and the State itself depends. Women can-
not afford to ignore this question, it lies
near their hearts. Homes and happiness,
all that makes life sweet rests upon the de-
velopment of that which is within our own
borders. The Lord has given this wonder-
ful land to the people within its boundaries
to make fertile and bring forth from its
soil an abundance for themselves and their
children, and they should not trifle with
such benefits. By dint of labor, economy
and thrift some industries have been estab
lished that still need the fostering care of
the State, others need to be founded to pro-
mote still greater prosperity and give more
opportunities for labor and profit. One
which appeals most direct to the women of
Utah is the silk industry, and too much
cannot be said on the subject nor the en-
couragement of it too strongly urged. Agi-
tate it everywhere until the people awaken
to its importance sufficiently to comprehend
the bearing it would have upon the pros-
perity of the country. Here and there and
at different times women have made persis-
tent efforts, and worked against obstacles
that seemed insurmountable, and have
proven what a united effort could accom-
plish with some protection and necessary
aid, but now with the ballot in their own
hands, and the coast clear, to elect men and
women to places of trust who will consider
home industries, the paramount issue for
Utah, what can be said if they fail? How
will they condemn their own course if they
ignore this weighty matter upon which so
much depends of labor and help for the
many idle hands, who must have food and
raiment and habitations to dwell in.


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS ABOUT WAR AND
PEACE.

	The war is over practically so the word
goes forth over the wires, through the
press dispatches, and from ocean to ocean
the good news flashes. If only all wars
were over, all fighting and bloodshed and
conflicts ended or a bright prospect of such
a time in the near future, then indeed there
would be cause for rejoicing; but while the
terrible consequences of war are so apparent
there cannot be much real gladness, and it
will be long before the country settles down
again to its former quietude and men who
took part in the affairs resume their every
day work in life. Many never can take
the same places, because disabled either
through wounds or the effects of exposure

[Column 2]
or serious illness. And still others have
gone to an untimely grave, and yielded up
willingly their lives for their country’s
honor, and the cause of liberty for human-
ity. O, that there were some better way to
lift the down-trodden and let the oppressed
go free!
	Must it always be by the sacrifice of
human life, that nations rise to greater
things, to liberty, and the higher enlighten-
ment? Let us hope that men may find a
better way, that by the light that has come
into the world a firmer bond of brother-
hood may yet be established, and even
nations as well as individuals come to the
understanding and practice of “the golden
rule” our Savior left for all to follow.
When the time shall come which Emerson
voices, then indeed happiness may largely
be achieved.

“Be just at home; then write your scroll
	Of honor o’er the sea,
And bid the broad Atlantic roll,
	A ferry of the free.”

	Everything has had to wait while the
war went on; and now more battleships are
to be built and greater preparations made
for wars to come instead of looking forward
to a reign of peace. Money must conse-
quently be appropriated and the country
must be taxed to pay interest on bonds.
	The outlook is not a cheerful one except
to those who trust implicitly in an over-
ruling Providence, and look with prophetic
intuition into the future knowing He who
reigns on high will bring to pass in His
own good time all He has promised through
His servants.
	The Utah Volunteers have made a good
record with scarcely an exception. Some
have distinguished themselves nobly and
have been given higher rank, and all de-
serve appreciation and admiration from the
folks at home, for at the best it has been
hard enough. Some tales of the wounded
the suffering and hungry are very pathetic.
On the 23rd of August when the wife of
Gen. Gordon was leaving Jacksonville for
Savannah she says, “A Fernandina train
arrived and sick soldiers were crowded into
the Pulman cars,” no surgeon and no
nurses had been sent along with them, one
man died soon after the train started, anoth-
er was delirious from fever and a third in
the last stages of typhoid, developed severe
hemorrages. A physician on the train was
summoned and passangers gave up their
places in the sleeping cars to the soldiers,
who were weak and some of them nearly
famished. Mrs. Gordon obtained from the
buffet all the milk, brandy and ice and set
about nursing the prostrated soldiers; she
prepared milk punch and iced milk and
many of them revived. “The men be-
longed to Co. C. 157th. Indiana Infantry,
and were in charge of Captain Salisbury
who did everything in his power to aid
them. While the medical department of
the army fails to provide for our suffering
soldiers American women like Mrs. Gordon
come to the rescue.”
	This is only one instance but there are
many similar ones and the Relief work done
by Miss Barton and her Red Cross associates
is something that American women may
well be proud of. Our own Lieut. B. H.
Wells tells of Miss Barton’s coming among
the wounded at Santiago and with her own
hands making the gruel and beef tea and
giving it to the wounded soldiers.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Monday, August 8, was the birthday of
the President of the Woman’s Press Club,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt, and the members of
the club planned a surprise for the auspi-
cious occasion. Dr. Pratt is a great favor-
te with her associates not only in the Press
Club but in all places because of her many
fine qualities of head and heart, and withal
a genial manner. Her presence in the sick
room is like a healing balm to the suffering
and this in itself is a boon worth possessing.
	There were not many attended the party
as the club had adjourned previously and a
number were absent from the city; but
there was a sufficient number of brilliant
conversationalists to make the informal
party enjoyable. The ladies of the club
presented their president with a beautiful
picture, (medalion) the subject “Queen
Louise Among Her People,” representing
philanthropy, an appropriate gift for the
doctor. Many fervent congratulations and
good wishes for happy returns of the day,
etc., were showered upon the amiable
president, and gifts of flowers, bouquets of
roses, carnations and other fragrant floral
offerings came in abundance as tributes of
esteem and affection.
	During the evening a discussion of the
most eminent woman (now living) in the
United States was entered into and many
prominent in good works were mentioned,
but finally two who seemed to be the most
conspicuous and eminent in the largest
field of uplifting and greatest achievements
were decided upon, Susan B. Anthony and
Clara Barton, the voting was almost a trib-
ute, Miss Anthony after all having the larg-
er number of votes.
	A delicious repast was delicately served
to the guests, and the ladies and gentlemen
present felt it had been a most delightful
evening.


[Column 1]
WOODRUFF STAKE CONFERENCE.	

SISTERS’ FIRST VISIT. 
Editor “Exponent:”
	Dear Sister:—Thinking that a few words
concerning our first visit as Stake Presi-
dency of the Relief Society in the Wood-
ruff Stake of Zion would be of interest to
the readers of the “Woman’s Exponent.” I
thought I would give a short account.
	President Lucy Grant, First Counselor
Katie Snowball, Second Counselor Alice
Jackson. We left Randolph Wednesday
morning, August 3, in company with Sis-
ter Elizabeth Brough with a full determina-
tion, with the aid and assistance of our
Heavenly Father, to fulfill the call which
had been made on us. We visit with the
sisters of the Argyle ward at 10 a. m. the
same day. We found the Association in
good running order and a general good feel-
ing existing among the sisters of that ward.
They all felt like pressing forward in the
good work they were engaged in, and felt
like giving those placed over them their
faith and prayers. After enjoying the hos-
pitality of one of the sisters of that ward we
continued our journey into Woodruff and
occupied a couple of hours of the afternoon
with the good sisters of that ward, we also
had the pleasure of having with us two of
the Stake Presidency, President John M.
Baxter and First Counselor Byron Sessions,
also Bishop Peter McKennon of the ward.

[Column 2]
We had the pleasure of hearing these breth-
ren speak, giving some excellent instruction
to the mothers of the Latter-day Saints, en-
couraging them to have a watch care over
their children and to teach them how to
grow up good and useful men and women
in the Church and kingdom of God. We re-
mained with the sisters of Woodruff ward
that night.
	Thursday morning, August 4, we held
meeting in Almy at 10 a. m. We felt de-
lighted with the kind, sisterly feeling that
existed among the sisters in the little town
of Almy. We enjoyed ourselves very
much in speaking to each other and listen-
ing to the testimonies of the sisters, relating
instances where God had poured His spirit
down upon them and their families in times
of need; and how welcome we were made
by all, we felt we had their aid and assist-
ance in our travels. We remained with the
sisters until next morning when we jour-
neyed to Evanston to meet with the sisters
there at 10 a. m., August 5. We were
greeted by the sisters of that ward with
much kindness and sisterly love, when we
met them we felt as though we had been
acquainted for years, there was such a con-
genial spirit existing. We also had the
pleasure of having present with us the
second counselor to the president of their
Stake, Charles Kingston. He rendered his
assistance to us by occupying a portion of
the time in our meeting. Spoke of the
young people of one religion marrying into
another; encouraged the sisters and moth-
ers to be very careful whom their daughters
keep company with. An excellent time
was had in that meeting. On account of
there being a meeting for the Stake officers
on Saturday, August 6, at 11 a m., we re-
mained in Evanston that night and went
and took supper, which had been so well
prepared, having been invited to go out to
one of the sisters to spend the evening.
After supper had been cleared away we
started on our way to the sisters where we
were to spend the evening. On arriving
we did not find the expected guests there,
but shortly the sister of the house said if it
was agreeable with us we would walk
down to the other sisters and find out what
was the cause of their delay. Of course we
gladly accepted the invitation, when we ar-
rived there we found the house all dark and
apparently no one stirring. This sister
who accompanied us there said we would
go in and wake them up. Just as she
opened the door and we were ready to step
in the room was lighted up very brightly
and the word “surprise” was ringing in
our ears from all sides. For a moment we
could not think what was going on, but
in a few moments when we had gathered
our minds together again we realized this
had all been planned before, and here we
were among our brethren and sisters to par-
take of their kindness, and we can say we
enjoyed ourselves inexpressibly well. We
were kindly entertained by the brethren
and sisters with their nice singing, reciting
and speeches, also were treated with ice
cream and cake. I can say for myself and
in behalf of my other sisters, that I never
had a more enjoyable time in my life. We
felt such a good influence around us, and
the many blessings that were called down
upon us that evening, we felt as though we
were and had been one with them for years,
as I have stated before. We went to the
homes of some of the sisters that evening
with the feeling of God bless you all that

[Column 3]
we may be associated from time to time and
have the spirit of our Heavenly Father to
guide us, in the straight and narrow way.
	Next morning, Saturday, August 6, we
attended the Stake officers meeting at 11 a.
m., and listened to the fatherly counsel
given by our Stake President J. M. Baxter
and First Counselor Byron Sessions. After
meeting was closed and we had partaken of
dinner at the home of one of our beloved
sisters, we journeyed home, leaving the
blessings of our Heavenly Father upon the
branches of the Relief Society of this Stake
and feeling that we had been blessed of the
Lord, that He had been present with us
during our visit. And we pray that the
Lord will bless the Relief Society of this
Stake with wisdom, knowledge and power
that we may do much good here upon the
earth in rolling on the great and glorious
work, is the wish of
			Your sister in the Gospel, 
					KATIE SNOWBALL.


REFLECTIONS OF M. E. K. 
	I desire to ask a simple question of those
who believe that Joseph Smith was a true
prophet of God, not only believe but have
a knowledge that his message was an im-
portant one, because it teaches that earnest-
ness of soul and sincerity of heart is re-
quired of us to see this subject in its own
true light; for the Lord will give His spirit
to those who ardently desire to do His will.
Then we can know God by the spirit of
God, without it we cannot because we are
so much contaminated by the spirit of the
lower world and we are required to cleanse
our hearts and make them fit temples for
this good spirit. Good common sense will
teach us this lesson, for the word of God
through His Apostle Peter is, “Be ye pure
for I am pure; be ye holy for I am holy.”
And as He does not look upon sin with the
least degree of allowance we must be pure
before we approach Him; then we can
come to Him in a simple, childlike manner
for this is as he requires us to come. Then
He will be a father in very deed, yes, to
our hearts content. As you will find in
the book of Alma, chapter 32, Book of Mor-
mon, where He compares the word with a
seed and says, “Let this seed be planted in
your hearts, if ye do not cast it out by your
unbelief behold it beginneth to swell and
as ye feel these swelling emotions ye begin
to say it must be a good seed for it begin-
neth to enlarge my soul and enlighten my
understanding, yea it is delicious to me.
Now does not this increase your faith?
Yea, yet it has not grown up to be a per-
fect knowledge. And now behold ye
know it is a good seed, for every seed bring-
eth forth its own likeness. Now you must
not lay aside your faith for ye have only exer-
cised your faith to plant the seed to know
if it is good. Now if ye will nourish it
with much care it will get root and grow
up and bring forth the fruit. But if ye neg-
lect the tree behold when the sun cometh
and scattereth it because it hath no root, it
withers away and ye cast it out.
	“Now this was not because the seed was
not good, neither is it because the fruit
thereof is not desirable, but it is because
your ground is barren, and ye will not
nourish the tree, therefore ye cannot have
the fruit thereof. And thus if ye will not
nourish the word, looking forward with an
eye of faith to the fruit thereof ye can never


pluck of the fruit of the tree of life. But if
ye will nourish the word, yea nourish the
tree as it beginneth to grow by your faith
with great diligence and patience, looking
forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take
root, and behold it shall be a tree, spring-
ing up into everlasting life. And because
of your diligence and faith and your pati-
ence with the word in nourishing it that it
may take root in you, behold by and by ye
shall pluck the fruit thereof which is most
precious, which is sweet above all that is
sweet and which is white above all that is
white, yea and pure above all that is pure;
and ye shall feast upon this fruit even until
ye are filled that ye hunger not, neither
shall ye thirst Then my brethren ye shall
reap the reward of your faith, your diligence,
your patience and long suffering waiting
for the tree to bring forth fruit unto you.”
	This closes the chapter written by Alma,
who was the son of Alma and at one time a
bad boy until an angel appeared to him
saying, “If you will destroy yourself seek
not to destroy the church of God.” This
put a stop to his wilful career as it did St.
Paul’s, he then sought righteousness and
also taught it to others. We read in chap-
ter 60 of the same book the words of Moro-
ni, the Captain of the army: “Behold I am
Moroni your chief captain. I seek not
power, but to pull it down; I seek not for
the honor of the world, but the glory of my
God and the freedom of my country.”
	Now is not this the same spirit which
prompts the war today? And behold how
long that war lasted. Please read this
chapter, we will find the Book of Mormon
a benefit at this time. It was not kept in
vain, it is the lesson we greatly need at the
present time. This sacred relic is not
properly appreciated by our people at the
present time, and I think the reason is that
we accepted the Gospel because it was the
teaching of Christ, exactly as He taught it
when He was in His mortal state, it being
the same which purified and sanctified His
disciples until they could do the same
things that He did both in healing the sick
arid raising the dead. Accordingly if a
people must be found to arise and meet
Him exactly of this character when He
comes to reign King of kings and Lord of
lords, it must be through the same rule of
action which purified and sanctified them or
we will not be the same character that
they are. And you know He said, “Ex-
cept ye are one ye are not mine.”
	How important, then that we give strict
heed to His words that we may be one
with those whom He brings with Him, and
who will live one thousand years without
knowing of sickness or death or the sor-
rows of this life. I for one greatly desire
to live again with Him in the Millenium.
I shall take my long sleep, but hope to
hear the trumpet of God when it sounds to
awake all who are worthy to come forth
and arise to meet them at this great and
glorious event.
	But let us read the Book of Mormon as a
friend of mine told me to read it, asking
God our Father every time he took it up to
read, “Is this truth or is it fiction?”
While reading he got a testimony for him-
self that it was correctly written, exactly as
things transpired at that time. Now this
is easy and the best way is it not? And
now is the time we need this intelligence,
and it seems to be kept expressly for this
generation. Let us improve the time, for
this life is short at best.—July 22, 1898.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

PUEBLO BRANCH, COLORADO MISSION.	
	Report of a special meeting called by
Apostle John W. Taylor, Sunday, July 3,
1898. We had Apostle Taylor and Sister
Susa Young Gates with us. They came to
organize a Relief Society in the Pueblo
branch of the Colorado mission of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Gates met in the morning with the
Sunday School and spoke one hour to the
leaders and members on their duties. At
2 p. m. we again met in the capacity of a
faith meeting and listened to the testimo-
nies of the Saints. Elders Ensign and Gra-
ham rendered some good music. Apostle
Taylor announced a meeting for the sisters
at 6 p. m., for the purpose of organizing a
Relief Society.
	The meeting was called to order by Sis-
ter Susa Y. Gates. Singing. Prayer by
Sister Emma Simmons. Singing. Sister
Gates spoke at some length upon the duties
of the president and other officers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society. The officers
were put before the meeting as follows:
Sister Elizabeth Hart, president; Sisters
Amanda Coleman and Emma Simmons,
counselors; Sister Ella Branch, secretary;
Sister Johnson, treasurer. They were all
sustained in their respective positions.
They were set apart by Apostle Taylor,
Elders H. S. Ensign and F. C. Graham.
	There were present of the sisters Eliza-
beth Hart, Amanda Coleman, Emma Sim-
mons, Ella Branch, Sister Johnson, Della
Cummings, Elizabeth Cummings, Frozey
Cummings, Sister F. Branch, Sister Sum-
merell and Sister Porter.
	There were present Elders from Utah
Apostle Taylor, Elders H. S. Ensign, F.
C. Graham, Ray Fairbanks, Zeb Colton,
David F. Smith. Local Elders, J. I. Hart,
W. O. Cummings, H. E. Cummings and
J. D. Simmons.
	The meeitng was then given into the
hands of Sister Hart who spoke at some
length. Benediction by Counselor Coleman.
	At 7:30 p. m. meeting was called to
order by President J. P. Hart. Singing.
Prayer by Elder D. F. Smith. Singing.
Apostle Taylor then introduced Sister
Gates as the speaker. She occupied the
time in speaking upon the belief and life of
the Latter-day Saints. Apostle Taylor
then spoke at some length upon the pro-
gress of the work of the Lord in this part
of the vineyard, and prophecied that the
time was near at hand when there would
be branches of the Church from Pueblo to
Jackson Co., Mo., and that many in the
room would live to see the roads lined with
people on their way to the Temple in Jack-
son County. He also gave some good
counsel. Benediction by Elder F. C. Gra-
ham.
			ELLA BRANCH, Sec.


He who lends money to the poor is often
better than he who gives them alms.

	To do well is to be well. Persevere in the
thought, “I shall be better tomorrow,”
and it will help you to become so. It has
been said that no man ever died without his
own consent. Never get your own consent
to dying. Resolve to live; resolve to be
well. You yourself must make the effort;
you must work out your own salvation.
—Charles Kingsley.


IN MEMORIAM.

SUSANNAH VANCE.
	Died of appendicitis at Mesa City, July 10, 1898,
after three days illness, Sister Susannah Vance,
wife of James Vance Sr, and daughter of Jerome
M. and Mary Rhodes Benson. Deceased was
born Feb. 8, 1833, near Independence, Jackson
Co., Mo. Born in the Church at so early a period
she passed through every principal evolution o
Church experience from the time of her birth un-
til the day of her death.
	She came to Utah in 1850, was married to her
husband, James Vance, in 1855, with whom she
shared in the pri[-]ations and toils of Utah’s early
pioneers, and to whom she bore a family of
twelve children, and lived to see one son return
from an honorable mission, while another son
and grandson are still in the mission field and as
stated by her Bishop and each who spoke at her
funeral, Sister Vance was a live member of the
Church, was faithlul to every duty and calling.
From age, experience and good works she has
gone to her rest as a veteran in the Church of
God, leaving a veteran husband with four living
children and very many grandchildren to bear
her name in honor and blessing through genera-
tions of time.
	As a worker in the St. George Temple she was
among the first called after its dedication, and
she faithfully labored in that calling until 1882,
the period of their migration to Arizona. On
her arrival in Arizona with her famil[-] she joined
the Relief Society and at her death was president
of the teachers in the Alma ward. She was a
faithful member attending to every duty devolv-
ing upon her, and always on hand to help to re-
lieve the sick or those in distress. Sister Vance
came up with her husband last year and attended
the Jubilee, and seemed to enjoy the visit very
much.
	A large cortege of loving kindred and friends
followed her remains to the grave to await a re-
union of loved one in that sweet bye and bye.
		ANNIE KLEINMAN, President,
		HENRIETTA STANDAGE, Counselor, 
		MELISSA HUNSAKER, Secretary.
	Mesa City, August 16, 1898.
SARAH LAKER COOK.
	We feel it our duty, painful though it be, to
make mention of the death of Sister Sarah Laker
Cook, wife of Alonzo Cook, which occured at her
home in Swan Creek, Utah, July 5, after an illness
of eleven days. The immediate cause of her
death was pronounced hemorrage of the brain.
Her sufferings were very great, but during her
sickness as through her entire life she exe cised
the most extraordinary faith in the power of the
Priesthood. Since her early childhood she has
been a consistent, conscientious Latter-day Saint
and her devotion to her religion was unbounded.
She has held several prominent positions in the
Young Ladies Association and other organiza-
izations in the ward where she has resided, and
at the time of her death was a prominent
teacher in the Sabbath School and Religion Class
besides holding the position of counselor to
Stake President Annie Laker of the Primary
Association of Bear Lake. Her greatest pleasure
in life was to labor among the children whom she
devotedly loved. She has borne seven children,
four of whom survive her, and they with the sor-
rowing husband and parents are made to feel the
truth of the words,
		Death rides on every passing breeze,
		And lurks in every flower.
	There were over forty carriages in the funeral
procession and the floral offerings were profuse
and beautiful. It was especially fitting that the
Primary children of the neighboring towns came
with their flowers and in the most perfect order
marched silently and sadly and placed them on
the coffin of her who had known and loved them
in life. May we all so live that when the death
summons comes our welcome will be as Campbel
so beautifully says,

“Soon may this fluttering spark of vital flame
Forsake its languid, melancholy frame!
Soon may these eyes their trembling lustre close
Welcome the dreamless night of long repose!
Soon may this woe-worn spirit seek the bourne
Where lulled to slumber,grief forgets to mourn”
								LURLINE.
St. Charles, Idaho.
BERTHA PETERSON SWENSON.
	On Sunday, June 26, 1898, Sister Bertha Peter-
son Swenson departed this life.


Sister Swenson was born June 14, 1841, at Wal-
by, Sweden	She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, March 2
1856, and emigrated to Utah in 1857. She was the
mother of twe ve children, nine of whom still sur-
vive her, and are all good Latter-day Saints who
with her husband, August Swenson, lament the
death of a loving wife and a kind and gentle
mother.
	Sister Swenson was a faithful, consistent Latter-
day Saint, unassuming and always attending to
her duties in the season thereof. She has been a
teacher in the Relief Society ever since its first
organization in Spanish Fork, which was forty
years ago, until she resigned on account of ill
health. Her death was calm and peaceful; she
felt no pain but was so sleepy.
	To all those who sleep in Jesus, death is sweet 
and has no sting.

		“God hath gathered home her spirit,
			God hath taken what He gave,
		Friend and sister sweetly slumber,
			In the quiet, peaceful grave.

		At the resurrection morning
			We shall all appear as one,
		O, what robes of bright adorning
			Will the righteous then put on.”

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, The hand of Divine Providence has
removed our beloved sister from a scene of her
temporal labors, we are desirous of testifyin our
respect for her memory and expressing our
earnest and affectionate sympathy with the house-
hold deprived of her earthly society; therefore be 
it
	Resolved, That while we bow with humble sub-
mission to the will of the Most High, we do not
the le s mourn for our sister who has been taken
from us.
	Resolved, That we lament the loss of an active
member of the Society, whose utmost endeavors
were exerted for its welfare and prosperity; a
friend and companion who was dear to us all, and
whose life was a standard of emulation to her co-
laborers.
	Resolved, That the heartfelt sympathy of this
Society be extended to her family in their be-
reavement.
	MARY BAXTER, President,
	BERTHA NIELSON,
	CHRISTANIA CHRISTENSEN, Counselors,
	MAGGIE KING, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall, Saturday, July 30, 1898, President
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “Lord we
come before Thee now.” Prayer by Clara
Cannon. Singing “How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President Horne knew the benefit of
these meetings. It was here where our
spirits were refreshed and we were fed.
Spoke of how easily was the Spirit of God
grieved. Many times it was driven away
from us by fretting and worrying. How-
ever, God knew our weaknesses and would
be merciful to us if we tried to overcome
them. Spoke of the difficulties the people
had to overcome who settled Utah, and
compared those days to the ones we enjoy
now. Said our young people knew noth-
ing of these trials. God had said He would
have a tried people, therefore we should ac-
knowledge His hand in all things. Spoke
of the war and knew the hand of the Lord
was in it. Did not feel like prolonging her
remarks as there was business of impor-
tance to transact concerning our excursion
on Monday next.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she had been
thinking of the remarks of President Wood-
ruff at the time of the Temple excursion to
Brigham City, wherein he said the angel
of destruction had gone forth. Thought
this had been literally fulfilled. Spoke on
tithing and referred to a piece in the Deseret

[Column 2]
News on the subject of tithing, wherein it
said that paying tithing was better than a
bank account. Spoke of the advantage of
making homes in Arizona as there was
every advantage there for doing so.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the advantage
these meetings were to her. She never
liked to hear any one spoken ill of. Re-
cited a very nice piece of poetry about
speaking against any one.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder spoke of her ab-
sence from these meetings, she had been off
traveling in the interest of the work. Spoke
of the different organizations which she had
attended. During her travels she was sur-
prised and made glad to see the abundance
of the wheat fields, everything was pro-
gressing and the Saints were all trying to
live their religion. She was gone three
weeks and had a very enjoyable time.
Said as they drove through the abundant
harvest fields Brother Grant made the re-
mark that he wished President Woodruff
could see this, that it would fill his heart
with joy.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde proceeded to give a
description of their recent trip to Bingham
in organizing the Society. Said it was a
peculiar place and most of them were
young women who had married outsiders,
but these women were full of faith and their
husbands were generous in allowing them
every privilege in attending their meetings,
was reminded of the saying of the Savior,
“Be ye not unevenly yoked together.”
Thought Sister Horne was a perfect marvel
the way she was buoyed up to stand the
traveling that she did. It proved to her
that the Lord was willing to sustain those
who spent their time in his service.
	Sisters Barton and Wilcox related some
very interesting circumstances and bore
very strong testimonies.
	Remarks were made by Sister M. O.
Brown.
	President Mary A. Hyde said she loved
the communion of Saints, this was a privi-
lege that was promised her many years
ago. Felt we had many testimonies of the
Lord touching the hearts of the people of
the world towards our missionaries who
were out in the world. Gave an instance
of how one of our young men was taken
care of who was sick. She then spoke in
tongues but it was not interpreted.
	The business of the meeting was then at-
tended to. Singing, Doxology. Benedic-
tion by Sister Julia C. Howe.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.

	Minutes of Ladies Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall, Aug-
ust 13, 1898, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing “Arise O,
glorious Zion.” Prayer by Sister Julia C.
Howe. Continued by singing “Let those
who would be Saints indeed.” The secre-
tary not being present Sister Alder was
called upon to act in this capacity. Minutes
of last meeting read and approved.
	President Horne spoke of those who met
in these meetings. Said that Jesus said
those who meet often together, a record of
them should be kept, and when He came
they should be His jewels. He also spoke
in parables. Referred to the sower who
went forth to sow, some seed fell in stray
ground, some where there was not moisture,
therefore it could not germinate, only some
grew to perfect fruit. Ancient Israel once
fell away from the Lord and Saul went to
the Witch of Endor to get the word of

[Column 3]
the Lord. He could not get it by dreams
or visions or Urim and Thummim, because
they had drifted so far away from God. “I
know how President Woodruff feels about
running after the things of the world. The
children of God all have their agency, He
does not take it away from them, neither
do his servants. How grievous is the sin
among us of Sabbath breaking, running
after pleasure and the vain things of the
world. I am thankful that my heart was
opened to receive the Gospel when it came
to me, and it is a pleasure to me now.
How comforting the still small voice which
testifies that we are approved of by our
Father in heaven! God pours out His spirit
upon all the world but it all belongs to us,
and is from His hand. All the great in-
ventions are from and by Him, and are for
the benefit of His Saints. Sisters your
labor is among your own circle. God de-
sires us to be satisfied with His Gospel and
labor among His people.” Spoke of Sister
Jannette Morris who often spoke in our
meetings. “But her voice is silent now,
and she has gone Beyond to receive her re-
ward. She was a good woman, and I al-
ways felt that she was a congenial spirit
and we miss her. But life hereafter will be
glorious for her. Let us heed the whisper-
ings of the Spirit, commit our loved ones in-
to His care and thank Him for all bless-
ings.” Alluded to our fast meetings and
offerings, tithing and every other thing that
the Lord calls upon us to do. “Let us be
among the willing workers, that our names
may be in His book of remembrance.”
	Sister Butterworth said she often felt that
she would not be afraid to have her record
read from the house tops. Related a dream
which had been a comfort to her, desired to
endure to the end.
	Sister Hannah Wright was thankful that
she was chosen to be a savior of her fath-
er’s household. Bore a strong testimony
of the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Waterfall said she was thankful
that she should stand at the head of her
family. We have set out to gain the same
prize. May we be faithful.
	Sister Seabeck also bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon desired to bear
her testimony to the goodenss of God to
her, the only one of her father’s house to
embrace the Gospel. We can pray for and
encourage our friends who are weak in the
faith, not murmur, for that will grieve the
Spirit. May we keep our eyes upon the
mark of our high calling.
	The sisters sang “Glorious things are
sung of Zion.”
	Sister Julia Jones bore her testimony.
Knew that God had blessed her in her old
age. Desired to be faithful to the end.
	Sister M. E. Taylor felt built up to hear
her sisters bear their testimonies. Hoped
she would be faithful to the end.
	President Horne said she received a note,
it was sent to her come up to Bingham.
Said some of our sisters were married to
outsiders. A young mother had lost her
baby just before they went up there, she
desired a Mormon funeral but her husband
would not allow it, but had a Gentile offi-
ciate. Some of them allowed their wives
to go to meeting and to the Relief Society,
but some are bitter. “Mothers have we
done our duty in rearing our children?
Have we instructed them aright? In an-
cient Israel the Lord commanded the peo-
ple to purify themselves, and put away


their wives who were not of Israel. We
come upon earth to get these tabernacles
for our spirits to dwell in, let us keep them
pure, let us renew our covenants with the
Almighty.
	Sister Marks bore her testimony. She
was thankful that she was a member of the
Church of God, desired to work for the
living and the dead.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson desired that all
the sisters in Salt Lake could hear the in-
structions given here today. Spoke of her
visit to Morgan Stake and testified of the
faithfulness of the sisters there. Spoke
against the waste of the sisters in many
instances, while others were lacking for
needful things. Mentioned the bounteous
harvest and urged the sisters to economize
and not go into debt.
	Jannette Carrington bore her testimony.
Desired to live to do her duty.
	Sister Hardy felt blessed that we had
aged sisters to instruct us, said Sister Eliza
R. Snow said, “Woe to those sisters who
are at ease in Zion.”  Every day we make
our record, and may it be a good one.”
Made other eloquent remarks.
	Sister Margaret P. Young bore her testi-
mony that this work was true. Her par-
ents had a beautiful home near Philadel-
phia, but when the Gospel came they left
all and gathered with the Saints. “I knew
it was true or I would not have done it. I
pray the young people will listen and heed,
God’s spirit is among a very few, and I
pray that the young people may observe
the word of God.
	Sister Rawlings desired to acknowledge
the goodness of God to her, desired to be
useful in this Church. Prayed God to
bless our aged sisters that they might live
long to give us instructions.
	Sister Cornell said if she ever wanted to
get a great blessing she had to fast for it.
Spoke of the youth of Zion, prayed for wis-
dom and God’s holy spirit. Sister Wilcken
had a testimony to bear,for God had blessed
her many times. Prayed that our aged
sisters might be spared long to teach and
instruct us.
	Closing remarks by President Horne. “I
thank the sisters for their prayers in my
behalf, and I feel that God hears them.”
Spoke of the visit of herself and aids to the
11th ward to select a counselor to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of Sister Mor-
ris. There not being enough sisters pres-
ent, the business was postponed until next
month. Also reported the excursion to
Saltair, said we had not made as much as
we should, but felt to thank the sisters for
attending and helping to make a good time.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks; gave
out conference notice, it will convene in
three weeks. Closed by singing Doxology.
Benediction Counselor E. L. Webb. 
		LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Count no one lost to thee who died lov-
ing thee.

   Good nature and evenness of temper will
give you an easy companion for life; virtue
and good sense an agreeable friend; love
and constancy a good wife or husband.
—Spectator.

   Opinions, theories and systems pass by
turn over the grindstone of time, which at
first gives them brilliancy and sharpness,
but finally wears them out.—Rivarol.


It is with some good qualities as it is
with the senses—they are incomprehensible
and inconceivable to such as have them
not.—Rochefoucauld.

   A pleasant room in the Tribune home is
arranged fcr the accomodation of ladies
visiting Washington. 1325 10th street
is in direct connection with the rapid tran-
sit lines for all parts of the city and suburbs.

   I will believe in the right of one man to
govern a nation despotically when I find a
man born into the world with boots and
spurs and a nation born with saddles on
their backs.—Algernon Sidney.

   No enjoyment is transitory; the impres-
sion which it leaves is lasting, and what is
done with diligence and toil imparts to the
spectator a secret force of which one cannot
say how far the effects may reach.—Goethe.


UTAH DAY.

TRANS-MISSISSIPPI EXPOSITION.

	For Utah Day at Omaha, September 14,
the Rio Grande Western Railway will
make rate of $25.00 round trip. Tickets
on sale September 10th and 11th only.
Tickets good till September 26th. Trains
leave at 8:30 a. m. and 7:40 p.m. Through
sleeping cars. Free reclining chair cars.
Buffet cars. Call at Ticket Office No. 103
West Second South (Dooly Block Corner.)


[Column 1]
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her winter class in
Obstetrics and Nursing, on Monday,
Oct. 10th. Any one wishing to com-
municate with Dr. Roberts, address
75 North State Street.
			Telephone 548 D.

R.K. THOMAS

Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.

SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s School
	The winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP'S School in obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1898, at her office Constitutional
building, Main Street, with greatly
improved facilities for instruction in
this important study. For full par-
ticulars please address
		ELLIS R. SHIPP. M. D.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
	   Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
	   The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
	   We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
	
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
   DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

	Do not worry your brain about the man
in the moon, but study the man in your
own overcoat.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
	(In Effect July 17, 1898.

   Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:
			ARRIVE.
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City
	and Ogden......................... 3 10 p m
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco, Ogden and intermed-
	iate points.................................. 8 55 a m
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. 7 15 p m
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver and Ogden [-] 10 a m
*From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate point.... 6 20 p m
[cross]Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach...... 4 00 p m
			DEPART.
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City. St Louis, Ogden and
	Park City.......................... 7 00 a m
For San Francisco, Ogden, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points. 8 05 a m
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha, St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points.............. 6 25 p m
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco................ 8 45 p m
*For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City,
	Provo, Nephi, Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points  7 30 am
[cross]Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus............. 7 45 a m
	*Trains south of Juab run daily except 
Sunday.
	[cross] Daily except Sunday.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL,
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sa[-]e
to all parts of the world.
	Pullman Palace Car ticket office.
			     D. E. BURLEY,
		     Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent.
S. W. ECCLES,
	      General Traffic Manager.
W. H. BANCROFT,
	      Vice-President and Gen. Manager


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
