VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1899.		NO. 22.


CONTENTS. 
	A Brief Sketch - C. Y. C. Anniversary Cele-
brations. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s Graduates—Emily
G. Cluff. At Chesterfield—Alzina Thompson.
Another Relief Society—Margaret Budge, Sec. 
Reaper’s Club Notes—Julia A. Druce, Sec. Items
from Mexico–Sarah A. Clayson. A Word of Ad-
vice—Rebecca O. Allen. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting—J S. Woolley, Sec. Proclamation. In 
Memoriam. The Cliff Dwel[-]ers—Luella M.
Rhodes.
	EDITORIAL:—Conferences and Meetings. Ed-
itorial Notes
	POETRY:—For the Old Folks Party at Croyden,
March 17, 1899—Augusta Toone. The Ladies!
God Bless Them—Robert Grant.


FOR THE OLD FOLKS’ PARTY AT CROY-
DEN, MARCH 17, 1899.

Our lives are a wearisome journey,
	We are sick from the dust and the heat,
The rays of the sun beat upon us,
	The briers are wounding our feet;
But the city to which we are journeying
	Will more than our trials repay,
Then the toils of the road will be nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
There’s so many hills to climb upwards,
	Oft times we are longing for rest,
But the Lord who appointed our pathway,
	Knows just what is needful and best.
In His word we know He has promised
	Our strength shall be as our day,
And the toils of the road will be nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
He loves us too well to forsake us,
	Or give us one trial too much,
All His people must bear persecution,
	But Satan can never claim such.
By and by we shall see Him and hear Him,
	In the City of Enoch’s fair day;
Then the toils of the road will be nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
When the last feeble step has been taken,
	And the gates of the City appear,
When the beautiful songs of the angels,
	Float out on our listening ear,
Then all that now seems so mysterious
	Will be plain, and as clear as the day,
All the toils of the road will seem nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
Cooling fountains there’ll be for the thirsty
	There are cordials for those who are faint,
There are robes that are purer and whiter,
	Than ever the fancy can paint.
Then we’ll try and press hopefully onward,
	Drawing nearer on each weary day,
And the toils of the road will seem nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
					AUGUSTA TOONE.


[Column 1]
BRIEF SKETCH.

LEONORA CANNON TAYLOR.
	In the little antiquated town of Peel on
the Isle of Man, there was born near the
close of last century a girl who was des-
tined to be the means of bringing salvation
to many souls of her father’s household,
and to herself occupy a somewhat conspicu-
ous station in the new dispensation about to
be ushered in by the Lord. Her name was
Leonora Callister Cannon, the daughter of
Capt. George Cannon and Leonora Callister

[Column 2]
Cannon. Both her parents belonged to old
and well connected families, and there was
scarcely a portion of the island in which
their kinsfolk might not be found.
	She received the advantages of a good,
sound education and was greatly beloved
by all her relatives and acquaintances.
From early childhood she showed strong
traits of character, and early in life her at-
tention was directed towards religion. In
whatsoever society she was placed, her in-
fluence was always used to impress her
associates with the advantages and pleasures
of serving the Lord. After she grew up
she spent a great deal of time in London
with friends of her parents, and though she
moved in fashionable society, she always
carried with her this lofty piety and this
influence in favor of the Lord’s service,
never being diverted in the least degree
from attending to those duties which she
felt were incumbent upon her as a child of
God.
	Among her friends was a young lady
who became engaged to a Colonel Bacon
of the British army. This officer had been
appointed secretary to the Governor Gener-
al of Canada, and the marriage occurred on
the eve of his departure for that country.
His journey to his new station was to be
his wedding tour, and it was arranged that
Miss Cannon should accompany her friend
and the latter’s husband upon this journey.
	After remaining in Canada a short time,
Miss Cannon made preparations to return
to England. Meantime, being a methodist,
she became acquainted with John Taylor, a
young preacher in that denomination. He
was greatly attracted by her, and shortly
afterwards made a proposal of marriage.
She was intent upon returning to her home,
however, and declined his offer; but a dream
which she subsequently had, in which it
was made manifest to her that she ought to
marry him, changed all her feelings, and
when he renewed his proposals she accepted
him.
	Both being very devout people, they
read the scriptures diligently, and it soon
became apparent to them that there were
powers and gifts which had been enjoyed
by the ancient Saints that were not possessed
by the church to which they belonged.
Among their acquaintances were others of
the same way of thinking, and they met to-
gether often to study the scriptures, seek-
ing earnestly for that measure of satisfac-
tion which they felt was still denied them.
	While their minds were thus exercised
Parley P. Pratt, an Apostle of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, came
to Toronto. They made his acquaintance.
Mrs. Taylor readily received the doctrines
of the Church and accepted the testimony
borne by Elder Pratt. Her husband was
more cautious, but after a time his doubts
were removed also, and they both embraced
the Gospel, and thus separated themselves
from their former friends and acquaintances.
	I need not dwell upon the particulars of
the visit of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
Sidney Rigdon, or of Elder Taylor’s visit to
Kirtland, or of the fatigues and hardships
of the journey to Missouri, which she shared

[Column 3]
with her husband, during which toilsome
journey one of her children was born; nor
need I dwell upon all the sufferings which
they endured in common with the Saints
in their expulsion from Missouri. I need
only say that in all these trials she displayed
a most heroic faith and was a constant com-
fort and help to her husband, strengthening
his hands and giving him every encourage-
ment which affection could suggest in the
trying scenes through which he had to pass.
When he was called with the rest of the
Twelve to take a mission to England, she
was left in the barracks in Montrose, where
with her little children, she struggled with
the difficulties and hardships and privations
and poverty that were the lot of all the
Saints at that time, and particularly of the
families of the Twelve.
	After his return, it was Elder Taylor’s
fortune to be with the Prophet Joseph at
the time when he surrendered himself to
his enemies at Carthage. You all know
the history of that dreadful occurrence.
Those were times that tried the souls of
men and women. The Prophet and Patri-
arch were killed, and Elder Taylor was 
shot in several places. Bringing him from
Carthage to Nauvoo in his wounded con.
dition and in the intense heat of that trying
summer seemed to promise but one result,
and that was his death. His devoted wife
visited Carthage as soon as she heard of the
massacre, and tenderly nursed and cared
for him while there and on the road back.
With unfaltering devotion and the utmost
solicitude she did everything in the power
of mortal to nurse him back to life and
health, and exhibited in all those trying
scenes the strength of character for which
she was already noted.
	The journey across the plains and the
endurance of the trials and difficulties of
the early settlement of this valley, (of which
she was one of the pioneers of 1847), again
brought out these admirable qualities which
she possessed in the most striking degree.
She had her trials as all her sisters of those
days had who were prominent and whose
husbands obeyed the commands of the
Lord; but during all this her faith never
wavered. Tried as she might be, she al-
ways testified that she knew that this was
the work of God, that Joseph was a prophet
of God, and that all that had been revealed
through him was divine. No one who
ever associated with her, no matter how
intimately, ever heard a word from her ex-
pressive of the least doubt concerning the
divinity of this work. And thus she lived,
carrying with her always in her association
with relatives and friends the good spirit
which prompted her to embrace the Gospel
when she heard it from the lips of a servant
of God.
	Her memory is deeply cherished by her
kindred, for they look upon her as an in-
strument in the hands of God of bringing
salvation to them. They are already a
host in the mountains of Zion, and they
thank the Lord for having inspired Leonora
Cannon Taylor to take the course which
has resulted so happily for them.
						C. Y. C.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS.

WOOD RIVER, IDAHO.
	The people of Little Wood River, Idaho,
(Bishop Harris’ ward) had a very pleasant
reunion on March 17th, to celebrate the
organization of the Relief Society.
	Meeting opened with prayer by Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, counselor. Address of
welcome was given by Relief Society
president, Mrs. Annie Pettigrew.
	The Bishop and others in the ward
helped to make this entertainment a success.
The program consisted of songs, recitations,
music, readings, speeches, etc. A bounti-
ful repast was served to those present.
	After an enjoyable time the company was
dismissed with prayer by Mrs. Mary S.
Phippen, counselor.
	A party for the children was given the
next day.
				AMANDA M. GUIVER.
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION IN ENGLAND.
	The sisters of this (the Nottingham, Eng-
land) Relief Society, held in honor the
anniversary of the organization of the same,
on Monday night, March 20, 1899, at
the president’s, Sister Hanson’s, house.
	The society was well represented, there
were eleven of the sisters present, Elders,
President Geo. Ruff, Joshua Coombs and
Alfred L. Cole, also several of the sisters’
husbands were present.
	Supper commenced at 8 p. m., and we
all partook heartily of the good things
spread before us. After supper there were
songs and recitations, also speeches given
by the sisters. The Elders also spoke to us
and gave us some very good advice, and
encouraged us in the work in which we are
engaged, for they knew it to be a noble
work. The young sisters present were
especially requested to be obedient to their
parents, and to have charity one towards
another and to be in love and unity with
all the Saints, for where there is union
there is strength. The meeting was then
brought to a close by singing the hymn “O
my Father.” The benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Joshua Coombs.
				EDITH CABLE, Sec.
MARCH 17TH, AT AFTON, WYOMING.
	Fifty seven years ago today our beloved
prophet, Joseph Smith, organized a society
known as the Relief Society, to relieve the
sick, care for the poor and comfort those
who mourn. At that time though few in
number they were a sturdy band of sisters,
and have since continued to grow.
	Today we meet to celebrate the anniver-
sary of that day and to speak of those who
were thus engaged, for in our hearts there
burns a fire which will never be quenched,
a reverence for the Pioneers which will
never cease.
	At 10 o’clock began our exercises. Opened
by a beautiful speech by our amiable
president, Harriet Cazier, on the organiza-
tion, followed by a lecture on Health
by Stake President Kittie E. Dixon, also a
speech on Woman’s Rights by Counselor
Mary Gardner, and the beautiful song,
“Mother I have heard Sweet Music,” by
the Hurd sisters, and many other beauti-
ful songs, music, speeches, dialogues and
readings. Much praise must be given the
young sisters for the ability shown by them
in preparing a luxurious feast ready for
those present to partake of at the close of

[Column 2]
the morning’s exercises, after which the
remainder of the program was rendered.
	The Stake Presidency, George Osmond,
Wm. W. Burton and Patriarch C. D. Cazi-
er, with their smiling faces showed they
were pleased to be in such good society.
	At night in the Opera House was given a
grand ball. Young and old met and
tripped the light fantastic toe until the wee
small hours of the morn.
	It is such events as these that make the
sisters who toil for the good of others feel
that life is worth living, and make them
glad they have lived.
			ANNIEBELLE HILL, Sec.
MARCH 17TH AT FREEDOM.
	A little space in your valuable paper will
suffice to tell of our Relief Society and its
earnest workers. Our village is small,
having but about twenty families, and we
know how to appreciate our meetings.
	A little over a year ago President Mary
A. Hyde, with others of our good sisters
visited us and organized our society, with
Sister Fanny F. Brown, president; Sisters
Florence Lowry and Nellie Draper, coun-
selors; Sister Elnora H. Taylor, secretary.
Having no Y. L. M. I. A. our young ladies
were asked to take part and help at all
times, which they have willingly done.
	Our meetings are held every two weeks,
with a fairly good attendance under try-
ing conditions, such as bad weather and
living at distances from our place of gather-
ing. The teachers meet with great success,
and liberal donations are given in. We
have finished one quilt and sold it, which
brought us something over five dollars.
Since our organization we have been visited
once by Sister A. L. Cox of Manti, and one
of her aids.
	On the 17th of March we celebrated, the
organization of the society by Joseph
Smith in 1842. Meeting was called to or-
der by President Fanny F. Brown. Sing-
ing. “Gladly meeting,” after which Broth-
er Wm. Lowry, our Bishop’s counselor,
offered prayer. Singing, “Love at Home.”
	A splendid program was rendered in the
way of speeches, songs, instrumental music
and readings.
	The most important feature of the pro-
gram was a reading by Sister Hannah
Crompton, who is now in her 84th year
and who read in such a clear and distinct
voice that every one in the house was able
to catch every word. After the program
was ended came our bounteous spread, 
which was enjoyed by all.
		Your sister in the Gospel 
					MINNIE TAYLOR.

NINETEENTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	The 17th day of March will ever be a
memorable one in the history of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. More
especially so to the sisters, because on this
date fifty seven years ago President Joseph
Smith organized this great Relief
Society, which has become so important a
factor through all the Stakes and branches
of the Church, in relieving the wants of the
poor and needy, and in administering com-
fort and solace to the sick and afflicted.
	With the annual recurrence of the day
will return the commemoration of the or-
ganization by the gathering of the ladies in
the various places of worship, to celebrate in
the most fitting manner the inception of the
first, if not the greatest auxiliary help in
the government of the Church. What en-

[Column 3]
thusiastic joy must fill the soul of every
true and zealous woman in the Church
when she contemplates that from one small
society organized in Nauvoo, March 17th,
1842, there has grown to be one or more in
every ward of forty Stakes of Zion, and in
nearly every branch of the Church that has
been organized. It can truthfully be said
that the Relief Society development cor-
responds with the growth of the Church as
a whole, or with any of its institutions,
and has become a potent factor for good
wherever the Church has an organization.
	This day, March 17, 1899, we are happy
to report, was fittingly observed by the Re-
lief Society of the 19th ward. The sisters
of the ward were in attendance, and in ad-
dition we were favored with the presence of
Apostle M. F. Cowley, Bishop Barton and
counselors, and Brother Wm. Neal and
wife, who have recently returned from a
mission to Germany.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Ann E. Neal made appropriate re-
marks. Sister Rebecca Asper gave a his-
torical sketch of the organization of the first
Relief Society with Emma Smith, wife of
the Prophet Joseph, as the president. Sis-
ter Hollings gave a recitation entitled “The
King’s Dream.” Sister Prescott read an
essay, giving many choice incidents in the
life of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sister
Hattie B. Harker gave a select reading en-
titled “Woman’s Mission.” Sister Phelps,
the oldest member of the Relief Society in
the ward, spoke of the grand mission given
the sisters to perform, and the necessity of
having the Spirit of God to assist them.
Sister Lucy B. Young then related in a
pleasing manner her visit to Washington to
attend the National Council of Women.
	Apostle Cowley then addressed the
society, expressing his pleasure at being
present and his unreserved sympathy for
the work and mission assigned to the wo-
men of this Church. He stated that no
class of women in the world moved in so
broad a sphere, and were accomplishing
such a grand mission as were the women of
this Church. Their condition was such as
to make it imperative upon them to under-
stand the principles of the Gospel. Oppor-
tunity was now afforded under certain cir-
cumstances for some of our sisters to per-
form missions abroad. Several had done
so with good effect, their influence being
strongly felt in the removal of prejudice,
and enlightening the minds of both men
and women respecting our religion and social
characteristics. He commended the faith
of the sisters in their efforts to defeat the
anti-Roberts resolution at Washington, and
said that as the effectual, fervent prayer of a
righteous man availeth much, so would the
effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous wo-
man ascend to God. Brother Cowley bore
his testimony to the good work being ac-
complished by the sisters, and invoked the
blessing of the Lord upon them.
	Bishop Barton made some very timely
and fatherly remarks, expressing his
pleasure at being present. He felt to give
the sisters of the ward his hearty support.
	Benediction was pronounced by President
Wm. Neal, after which refreshments were
served and pleasant, social conversation
was engaged in by all present.
			HATTIE B. HARKER, Sec.


The General Society Daughters of the 
Revolution has donated $50.00 to the
Prison Ship Martyrs’ Monument Associ-
ation of the United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LADIES! GOD BLESS THEM.

	[The following verses were given by Robert
Grant recently in response to the toast “The
Ladies” at the dinner of the Tavern Club of Bos-
ton, in honor of those who did service in con-
nection with the Hospital Ship, “Bay State:”]
You ask me to speak in behalf of the ladies
Who shone in our bout with the cohorts of 
	Cadiz!
You ask me to speak on behalf of the nurses,
And with your permission I’ll do it in verses.
“The ladies, God bless them!” the toast never
	varies
From Alaska’s cold snows to the sunny Can-
	aries.
Man fills up his goblet and drains it while
	drinking,
But the sentiment lies in the thought which
	he’s thinking.
Those dear little dolls with their pretty grim-
	aces,
Their kittenish ways and their delicate faces,
Are precious to some because dainty and 
	fearful,
Adorably helpless and readily tearful
The housewives with tact, rather plump and
	good-looking,
Nice amiable souls with a genius for cooking,
Are popular still with the saint and the sin-
	ner,—
When the Chair cries “The Ladies!” man
	thinks of his dinner.
The daughter of Spain with the night in her
	hair,
With the sloe in her eye and an indolent air, 
Entrances her lover who taps at her pane;
Delicious! but where are the navies of Spain?
That new woman is fair no man needs to be
	told,
She has night in her hair, she has tresses of
	gold;
But what makes her precious for you and for
	me
Is the soul which is in her, the soul which is
	free.
Which, bursting the fetters of fashion and
	caste,
Undeterred by tradition and deaf to the past,
Seeks a post in the ranks, claims the right to
	a place
Wherever her presence can succor the race.
Wherever there’s room for sweet patience
	and care,
For love which complains not and courage to
	bear
The stress of life’s battle; albeit to tread,
A hospital ship in the wake of the dead.
Humanity calls; and undaunted she stands,
There is sweat on her brow, there is blood on
	her hands.
Ho! dames with traditions, does this give
	you pain?
Take heed, and remember the navies of Spain!
“The ladies, God bless them!” Long life to
	the toast,
A health to the nurses who served at their
	post
In a hospital ship on a hurricane sea
For the sake of our country, for you and for
	me.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP’S GRADUATES.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s last class in obstet-
rics and nursing held their oral examina-
tion in their teacher’s parlors, March 5.
They passed successfully before the three
invited doctors, and secured Dr. Shipp’s
certificate with the signatures of E. S.
Wright, M. D., H. A. Anderson, M. D.

[Column 2]
and L. W. Snow, M. D. I think it is
known that Sister Ellis R. Shipp is an
M. D. and graduated from Philadelphia.
	Then on April 3 the whole class, eight
in number, passed the written examination
before the State Medical Board of Utah.
They all averaged 80 per cent, and two of
the students, Mrs. Emily G. Cluff and Miss
Olea Shipp, were especially mentioned as
coming through with flying colors, these
two getting 95 per cent, while only 75 per
cent is the required percentage to secure a
diploma.
	Dr Shipp cannot receive too much
eulogy for the good work she is doing and
has done for years in teaching these classes.
The students are scattered all through the
country and do much good in the communi-
ties where they reside, in alleviating suffer-
ing, and what is better, instructing their
patients how to prevent it. In our branch
of medicine prevention is better than cure.
In almost any business mistakes can be
rectified, but in this mistakes may, and
often do, cause the death of either mother
or child, or both.
	Our successes have only caused us
to feel more humble and thankful to our
Heavenly Father, for we realize that He
has given us the ability to understand and
opened the way for us to devote our time
to this gloriously interesting study, and we
still depend upon Him for help in our own
chosen profession.
	After spending so many months in the
home of Dr. Shipp we have learned to love
and appreciate her for her very worth. She
truly has been a most diligent and devoted
teacher, with excellent expression and
ability, thorough and painstaking with her
students.
	I had the privilege of attending the
beautiful course of lectures given by Sister
Hannah Sorenson seven years ago, and it
was what I learned there that gave me a
great desire to learn more, and it is my de-
sire to still continue my studies along with
my practice.
	I shall ever regard my teachers as my
true and valued friends, for they have re-
flected the searchlight of truth upon wo-
man's destiny add lifted the vale of obscuri-
ty from subjects of vital importance to
the women of the Latter-day Saints, who
believe that it is their God-given destiny to
bear children and to rear them in the fear
and admonition of the Lord; and we would
like to sound the note of warning to those
who are in any way, or by any means,
tempted to shirk the responsibility of legiti-
mate motherhood. We are warned and
forewarned by our leading brethren and
sisters against the enormous sins practiced
by many today, and I feel that all good,
Christian women, especially those in our
profession, should use their influence to
check these growing evils.
	Trusting these classes will be sustained.
I remain your sister in all that is for the
benefit of our sisters.
				EMILY G. CLUFF.


[Column 1]
AT CHESTERFIELD.

	In commemoration of the 57th anniver-
sary of the first organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the
members of the Chesterfield and Hatch
wards met conjointly in the Chesterfield
meeting house at 10 a. m. Everything
was arranged by 12 a. m., and all sat down 
to a bounteous dinner.

[Column 2]
	After all partook of the good things with
which the Lord has blessed us a recess was
taken, and at 2 p. m. meeting was called to
order by President Columbia F. Loveland
of the Chesterfield Relief Society. Opened
by singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Prayer by Wm. T. Higginson. Choir
sang “Do what is right.”
	Among the Relief Society ward officers
on the stand there were Prest. Mary A.
Call and First Counselor Sarah M. Call of
the Stake Presidency, also Prest. Christiana
Higginson and Counselors Emma J. Wil
liams and Hannah Hatch of the Hatch
ward, and the Bishopric of both wards.
	President C. F. Loveland said she was
pleased to meet with her brothers and sis-
ters, asked for a portion of the spirit of the
Lord to be with us and said we had met to-
day to carry out the counsel that had been
given to the Relief Society.
	Sister Mary A. Call, President of the
Relief Society of the Stake, said she was
pleased to meet on this occasion and
thought all the sisters ought to take part in
the services, and that it was our duty.
	Counselor Sarah M. Call felt like going
ahead and doing the best she knew how.
	The program was then proceeded with.
First an essay by Prest Christina Higgin-
son, entitled “Woman’s Rights.” Next,
remarks by ex Bishop Call. He was
pleased to be with the sisters on this occa-
sion, There was a mission for the sisters
to perform and there was an object in hav-
ing a Relief Society, that was to help the
poor and needy. The teachers had the 
right to tell the members while going
around to be on their guard and also in-
quire if there were any poor in the ward,
and stated that the Relief Society was a
great help to the Bishops. Told the
men not to be stingy with their wheat if
their wives wanted a peck to give into the
Relief Society.
	Sister Sarah M. Call then read the min-
utes of the first Relief Society meeting that
was ever held in the Church, when it was
organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Then there was a song by Sister Katie
Bevins and company, followed by a few re-
marks by Bishop Tolman. He thought
the brethren would be willing to help their
wives and encourage them in the Relief
Society. 
	Counselor E. J. Williams said she felt to
do her duty and hoped we would all be
united. Next a recitation by Sister Alzina
Thompson, followed by remarks by
Brother Peter Williams of Hatch ward,
who said this was the first time he had
ever had the privilege of attending a Re-
lief Society meeting, but hoped it would
not be the last. Asked the Lord to bless
the president and counselors of the Stake,
also the Relief Society in both of the wards,
and as the Bishop of the Hatch ward he
felt to thank the sisters of the Chesterfield.
	Then there was a song from Mrs. John
Detton and company of Hatch ward, fol-
lowed by a reading by Sister Maggie Hatch
of Hatch ward. Next was an essay by
First Counselor Alice Yandy of Chester-
field ward.
	President C. F. Loveland arose and
thanked the brethren and sisters for their
kind attention, also thanked the committee
for their labors, and the entertainment
closed by the choir singing “Lo the Gen-
tile chain is broken.” Benediction by
Brother Ira Call. 
	COLUMBIA F. LOVELAND, Prest.
	ALZINA THOMPSON, Asst. Secy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1899.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS.

	The month of April so far has been full
and running over with conferences, con-
gresses, meetings, lectures, entertainments
and so on; and really there is a variety.
	The General Conference opened on 
Thursday morning, April 6, most auspicious-
ly. The weather was fine, President
Lorenzo Snow seemed in the best of health
and spirits, also his counselors, President
George Q. Cannon and President Joseph F.
Smith, who were present on the stand, also
President Franklin D. Richards and a num-
ber of Apostles, and the choir were in good
voice as usual. The entire session of the
conference which included Sunday, was of
the greatest interest, and the attendance
each day was very large.
	On Saturday a priesthood meeting con-
vened in the large Tabernacle, and the Re-
lief Society held its two sessions morning
and afternoon in the Assembly Hall on the
same day, and there was a larger congre-
gation than on any previous occasion,
which is indicative of progress and an in-
crease in members.
	President Zina D. H. Young and her en-
tire board of officers were present on the 
stand and many Relief Society Stake presi-
dents, some of them from long distances.
	During the morning session President
Mary A. Hyde of Sanpete Stake spoke in
the gift of tongues, and the audience seemed
much impressed with the spirit which at-
tended this manifestation. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney gave the interpretation and it was
apparently a blessing and prophecy to the
sisters engaged in the benevolent work of
ministering to the needy, the afflicted and
the sorrowing.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts reported con-
cerning the charitable nursing class taught
by her during the last winter under the
auspices of the Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake, and of the interest taken in their
studies by the students and her own enthu-
siasm in teaching them and her ardent de-
sire to see them acquit themselves well.
	Sister Priscilla J. Riter gave something
of her experience as superintendent of the
practical work of the nurses, her plans and
ideas, and what had been done in this de-
partment for the sick and suffering. 
	Other speakers during the morning were
President Zina D. H. Young who spoke a
few words of welcome to the large congre-
gation, expressing her great pleasure,
especially in seeing so many representatives
from a distance.
	President B. W. Smith spoke a few
words encouraging the young girls to join

[Column 2]
the society, and entreated them to keep
themselves pure and virtuous and serve the
Lord.
	President M. Isabella Horne alluded to
the signs of the times, and urged the sisters
to beware of evil influences.
	President Jane S. Richards dwelt upon
charity and alluded to the scriptures, where
the Lord said “Do good to them that de-
spitefully use you and persecute you.”
	Meeting closed with prayer by Dr. R. B.
Pratt.
	The afternoon meeting was even more
interesting if possible than the session in
the morning. Apostle F. M. Lyman was
present and listened attentively to the sis-
ters; several from far away places were
called upon and spoke briefly of their labors.
Among these were Sister Thomas from
Canada; Miss Millie Campbell from Ban-
nock, Idaho; Sister E. Woollacott from
Los Angeles and Sister Harriet Nye from
San Francisco; President Lucy Grant from
Woodruff, a Stake only recently organized,
and Sister Julia Blackburn from Wayne.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman addressed the con-
gregation for a short time, commended the
labors of the sisters in the society. He re-
vered the mothers in Israel who had labored
so long and faithfully, urged the young
women to become members and be helpful
in this benevolent work, the society should 
be so popular that not one woman should
be left who was not registered, it was a
good thing to be registered, at least every
married woman should be a member of the
Relief Society, the very first and choicest
section of the Church. He referred to the
meeting he attended with the sisters in
Tooele on the 17th of March, with seventy
four sisters, that day was the Relief Society
day and would be held sacred in the future.
Spoke of other important events transpir-
ing on that day, and bore testimony that he
came to the Sisters’ Conference laden with 
the blessings of President Lorenzo Snow 
for the sisters, and that they had his love
and confidence; and Apostle Lyman after
saying many good things blest the sisters 
one and all.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards spoke a 
few words concerning her visit to the Relief
Society in Chicago, and spoke very sweetly
of Sister Rosa Smith, the president of that
society, who was a Nephi girl, and how
President Paxman had told her—she should
yet preside, and his words had been literally
fulfilled.
	Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Jane S.
Richards each spoke briefly, and some oth-
ers, President Ann C. Woodbury of St.
George, who displayed some silk made at
that place; President Eliza B. Orms of Poca-
tello Stake; Sister Bergen from Arizona, and
a few others. The congregation sang “O,
my Father,” and a benediction was pro-
nounced by President Sarah Jane Cannon.

	Sunday services were held in the Taber-
nacle morning and afternoon, and also an
overflow meeting in the Assembly Hall
in the afternoon, both places were crowd-
ed, many remained standing during the
entire service. The conference throughout
was glorious and excellent in spiritual
teaching, and filled with wise counsel and
instruction to the people if they will but
hearken to the voice of the spirit.


Any complaints from subscribers in
reference to the Woman’s Exponent
should be sent to the editor at this office
and will be promptly explained.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Errata: In the article in April 1st, en-
titled “A Pleasant’ Gathering” there are
two mistakes—the name of the town
where Mrs. Folsom was born should
have been West Suffield instead of Suf-
folk, and the year of their arrival in the
valley was 1860 instead of 1853.
	During conference time we had the
great pleasure of a brief visit from Mrs.
Hannah J. Bailey, of Winthrop Centre,
Maine, on her return from California,
whither she went last fall in search of
health and for a respite from business
cares. Mrs Bailey was the treasurer of
the National Council during the last four
years, and is a woman of great executive
and financial ability. She was traveling
with her brother, Mr. Johnston, who has
extensive commercial interests. They
were both pleased with Salt Lake City
and its people. Mrs. Bailey and brother
attended conference Thursday afternoon,
and we had the pleasure of a call from
the lady at this office, and of spending an
evening with Mrs. Bailey and Mr. John-
ston at the Knutsford. The following
day we went with them to introduce them
to the Governor and left them with the
Governor’s private secretary; Mrs. Emily
S. Richards and Mrs. Margaret A. Caine
accompanied them to the Lake in the
afternoon. We were very sorry the sis-
ters had not an opportunity of showing
Mrs. Bailey some special attention, as she
is not only a very prominent woman in
the Council, but also a very sweet and
amiable person and is everywhere high-
ly respected.
	The Mothers’ Congress which was held
in the Assembly Hall in this city on the
10th and 11th of this month, proved to be
of great interest to the public, and gives
those who have undertaken the move-
ment encouragement in its future success
as a permanent organization. Miss Mary
C. May who has been the president in the
past has been very active and efficient in
promulgating the idea, in connection with
Kindergarten teaching, and deserves
commendation for her exertions in this
direction. It is safe to say we cannot
have too much knowledge on the subjects
of mother, child and home. Mrs. Rebec-
ca E. Little, the new president, and Mrs.
Emily S. Richards, the first vice president,
are well known in the community and
will certainly be able to carry on the
work successfully. The ladies from the
East, Mrs. Westendorf and Mrs Helen
Campbell, are well known in a literary
way, eloquent speakers and good reason-
ers, and chose subjects suited to the times
and eminently popular with the audience.
Excellent papers were given by Susa
Y. Gates and Amy B. Lyman, and Prof.
Geo. H. Brimhall of the Brigham Young
Academy gave a very interesting talk on
Intelligent Fatherhood. Altogether it was
a successful session of the Mothers’ Assem-
bly, and gives great hopes for the future.


ANOTHER RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Persuant to previous arrangements a fair
representation of ladies of this city met at
the Saint’s Church for the purpose of
effecting the organization of a Relief
Society at St. John’s, Kansas, Jan. 8, 1899.
	Elder Wm. J. Jack was present, and after


the opening exercises stated briefly the
object of the Relief Society, explaining the
benefits to be derived and extended to
others in a social and benevolent way.
	Sister M. E. Taylor and Belle Copening,
of Utah, also spoke encouragingly of the
proposition, and related their experience as
members of similar associations out west.
	In a few well chosen remarks all the 
ladies present signified their willingness to
take hold and do their best to make the 
society a success.
	Officers for the society were nominated
and elected as follows: Mrs. Lucy Brecken-
ridge, president; selection of first and 
second vice presidents postponed until next
meeting; Mrs. Margaret Budge, secretary;
Mrs. Mary J. Bryant, treasurer. The
assembly then selected four ladies as the
visiting committee, Mrs. B. K. Oden, Mrs.
C. Shiller, Mrs. Alice Gooing and Miss
Georgie Oden, after which the society ad-
journed to meet at the same place, Thurs-
day 12th, at 2 p. m. Benediction was pro-
nounced by Mrs. Belle Copening.
	The names enrolled were Lucy Brecken-
ridge, Margaret Budge, Mary J. Bryant,
B. K. Oden, Joanna Miller, Alice Gooing,
Georgie Oden, Annara Baker, Ida Brecken-
ridge, Mary Dixon, Mary E. Taylor, Belle 
Copening, Sister Cooper, Sister Lawhead.
		MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WORD OF ADVICE.

	We celebrated the 17th of March and had
a good program rendered, two pieces were
read from the “Exponent,” and our presi-
dent, Sister Lucy Wilson, spoke in favor of
the “Exponent” and advised the sisters to
sustain that paper. Sister L. Liljenquist
also spoke in behalf of the “Exponent.”
	I have been thinking that if our by-laws
could be changed so as to have our annual
meeting come on the 17th of March instead
of the first Saturday in February, I believe
that all the sisters in the north would ap-
preciate that change, as the first Saturday
in February is always so cold, and it seems
it is a very bad time for mothers to get to
meeting. If it could be changed to March
17th, at 2 p. m., and it was made our an-
nual day for voting in our officers, I think
we would have a much better time at this
celebration, as we in Hyrum celebrate the


9th of May, it being the anniversary of the
organization of our Relief Society, it seems
like three annuals so near together is too
many.  I thought I would just make this
suggestion and perhaps those who have the
authority to make the change would think
it wise to do so in the future.
	Wishing the “Exponent” success, Iremain,
		Your sister in the Gospel of Christ,
					REBECCA O. ALLEN.


ITEMS FROM MEXICO.

COLONIA, JUAREZ.
	In compliance with the wish of the
General Board, the Relief Society of Colon-
ia, Juarez, gave a party on the evening of
March 17, in commemoration of the day on
which the Relief Society was organized in
the year 1842.
	At seven o’clock in the evening the
meeting house bell rang out its cheerful
ding-dong, and people came from far and
near. All married people of the town were
invited. In a short time the house was
well filled. The orchestra set up a lively
tune and all who wished to do so engaged
in the dance, while others spent the time in
social chat. From time to time during the
evening, songs, recitations, and speeches
were rendered, making a very pleasing


program. The house was nicely decorated
for the occasion, especially the stage which
presented a cosy appearance, for the commit-
tee had provided cosy chairs for the aged.
Tables were interspersed here and there
which were strewn with views, art books
and bouquets of flowers. The walls were
neatly decorated with the national colors,
red, white and green, also mistletoe and
pictures, giving a home-like appearance to
the scene.
	Some months ago Sister Phoebe Fife;
who had been president of the society for a
number of years, decided to make her
future home in Arizona, therefore she gave
in her resignation. This was thought a
suitable occasion to reorganize the society.
The Bishop, J. C. Bentley, being present
an organization was effected with Mary B.
Eyring president, and Annie H. Clayson as
first and Jane Croff as second counselors.
	Immediately after the reorganization,
Sister Eyring, who is Stake president of
the Relief Society, made a very fitting
speech on Relief Society work. Then fol-
lowed refreshments which were served by
a bevy of the younger sisters. The picnic,
consisting of roast chicken, sandwiches,
pickles, pie, cake, tarts and lemonade, was
a great success, and was served to about
one hundred and fifty individuals. The
order in which the picnic was served was
one of the main features of the evening’s
entertainment, and great credit is due the
committee for the able manner in which
the whole affair was conducted.
	The recent visit of Dr. Karl G. Maeser
and Elder D. John Nuttall to our dear little
home in Sunny South, has been a source
of joy to the Saints who reside here. At a
special meeting of the Relief Society Broth-
er L. John Nuttall instructed the sisters in
regard to the real objects of the Relief
Society. They are organized not only for
the relief of the poor, but for the salvation
of souls; for the putting down of iniquity,
correcting the morals find manners and
strengthening the virtues. This should be
a select society, separate from all the evils
of the world, choice, virtuous find holy.
The young ladies should be encouraged to
take part in this society, that they may not
be taken away into outside associations and
be led by other influences than that the
Gospel gives. Brother Nuttall kindly
urged the sisters to study the Church
works and give lectures from them in their
meetings.
		SARAH A. CLAYSON, Stake Sec.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	 Semi-monthly meeting held Feb. 25,
1899, in the 14th ward hall with Counselor
Elizabeth J. Stevenson presiding. Singing,
“Who are these arrayed in white?” Pray-
er by Sister Margaret Steele. Singing
“O, happy souls!”
	Sister Stevenson said we had met togeth-
er to have a feast. Sister Zina had said
“a testimony meeting was like a picnic—
one brought one thing, and another some-
thing else.” Spoke of the necessity of
watching our children, said there was great
danger of apostacy at the present time.
Teach children whenever we meet them, we
should talk to the boys as well as the girls.
The Prophet Joseph Smith said the mothers
could influence their children even before
they were born. Thought parents should
call upon their children to pray in turn.
Referred to the faith of Timothy, who had
received it through the teaching of his
mother and grandmother. We should set
an example worthy of emulation before our
children.
	Sister Mary L. Morris spoke of the
efficacy of prayer in the rearing of her
children, also related an incident showing
mothers how to teach truthfulness and
honesty among their children.
	Sister Webb said she hoped we had all
left our cares at home to come here and en-
joy the spirit of the Lord. Could see that
not only the little children needed the care
and teaching of mothers, but our married
children also needed our counsel and prayer.
Said she had always taught her boys as
well as girls to be virtuous. We must be
charitable to the young people, lead them,
they cannot be coerced.
	Sister Mary A. Hardy spoke of the bless-
ing the Relief Society had been to her.
Said that we should be united, and how
careful we should be about finding fault
with the Servants of God.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “The trials of
the present day.”
	Sister Jeffs said she had never had cause
to regret the part she had taken in the Re-
lief Society, it had proven a benefit to her.
She knew Joseph Smith was a prophet of
God.
	Sister Mary E. Bassett said she always
felt fed and strengthened when she came to
these meetings.
	Sister Saunders said she had always
praised the Lord that she was worthy to be
a Latter-day Saint. The Gospel was
sweeter to her all the time.
	A sister in the congregation bore a hum-
ble testimony of God’s goodness.
	Sister Jones said she came to get a spirit-
ual feast, that she had left her cares at
home, and that she had received what she
came for. Another sister spoke of the gift
of healing in her behalf, and other gifts and
blessings she had received through faith.
	Sister L. D. Alder spoke of the instruc-
tions of Sister Sarah M. Kimball to the women
to pay their tithing, related an incident in


tithe paying, how God rewards us for keep-
ing this commandment.
	Sister Julia G. Howe spoke of the com-
fort the Lord had given her in her trials
this winter. Said in coming to meeting
she renewed her strength, and said we
should be faithful and do our duty, that
when we have trials we can draw near to
our Heavenly Father; and let us not speak
against the authorities, nor harbor ill feel-
ings against any one.
	Sister Frances Smith bore testimony of
the Gospel. Another sister bore testimony
of God’s goodness.
	Sister Jane James spoke of the truthful-
ness of tithe paying. Said she wanted to
live so that the Lord would hear and
answer her prayers. She knew her Redeem-
er lived.
	The congregation sang “Come let us
anew.” Sister Mary Silver said she be-
lieved in paying tithing. She knew the
Lord would bless us for doing so and keep-
ing the word of wisdom. Said she thanked
the Lord she was one among this peo-
ple.
	Sister Maerentha Bulbock said she knew
this was a very trying age, and she knew
she could go to the Lord for His help.
Felt that she had been fed spiritually.
	Sister Ellis knew this was the kingdom
of God. Spoke of the gift of healing that
had lately been made manifest in her
family.
	Counselor Stevenson said it made her re-
joice to see the young sisters bear testimony
in these meetings.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, “Satan’s empire long has flour-
shed.” Benediction by Sister Brown.
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


REAPER’S CLUB NOTES.
	
	The Reaper’s Club met in the Woman’s
Exponent office, Templeton, on the 20th of
March, 1899.
	An interesting paper was read by Mrs.
Mary L. Morris, on the History of Cortez.
She gave a description of the conquest of
Mexico by the Spaniards under this leader,
mentioned the cruel way in which Monte-
zuma, a native king, had been treated, and
other items of history.
	Mrs. Lucy B. Young related some inci-
dents of her trip to the East, and spoke of a
pleasant visit which she and others had
made to the Kirtland Temple. She said
that after permission had been given the
brethren and sisters sang two hymns. The
first selection was “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning.” She also alluded to
other meetings she had attended, she en-
joyed these visits very much.
	Current events were given by other
members of the Reaper’s Club.
	Adjourned for two weeks and dismissed
with prayer by Mrs. E. J. Stevenson.
			I. A. DRUCE, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PROCLAMATION.

	“Whereas, A treaty of peace between
the United States of America and her
majesty, the queen regent of Spain, in the
name of her august son, Don Alfonso XIII,
was concluded and signed by their respec-
tive plenipotentiaries at Paris, on the 10th
day of December, 1898, the original of
which is in the Spanish language, is word
for word as follows:
	(Here full text of treaty is included)—and
	“Whereas, the said convention has been
duly ratified on both parts and the ratifica-
tions of the two governments were ex-
changed in the city of Washington, on the
11th day of April, one thousand eight hun-
dred and ninety-nine.
	“Now, therefore be it known, that I,
William McKinley, President of the United
States of America, have caused the said
convention to be made public to the end
that the same and every article and clause
thereof, may be observed and fulfilled, with
good faith by the United States and the
citizens thereof.
	“In witness whereof I have hereunto set
my hand and caused the seal of the United
States to be affixed.
	“Done at the city of Washington, this
11th day of April, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-
nine, and of the independence of the
United States the one hundred and twenty-
third.
WILLIAM MCKINLEY.
	By the President:
			JOHN HAY,
				Secretary of State.


IN MEMORIAM.

	IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE
	We the Primary officers of Davis Stake,
in meeting assembled, desire to express our
sorrow and regret that one of our members
whom we loved so well has been called
away.
	Sister Jane W. Hooper Blood was presi-
dent of the Primary Association of Kays-
ville, organized September 18, 1879, and
remained faithful to her trust until over-
taken with a sickness that terminated in
her death on September 7, 1898.
	Mrs. Blood was born May 2, 1845, in
Southhampton, Hampshire, England.
Emigrated with her parents to America,
arriving in Salt Lake City in 1854, and
moved from there to Taylorsville in April
1855. She was married to William Blood
September 9, 1861. She had ten children,
five boys and five girls, all living.
	Besides holding a position in the Primary
she was secretary in the Relief Society, a
teacher in the Sunday School and a mem-
ber of the choir in the ward where she
lived. Sister Blood was devoted to her
family, and with all of her public duties
home was not neglected. She was a model
wife and mother.
	We desire to dedicate these few lines to
her memory, and have them published in
the Woman’s Exponent and a copy sent to
the family, which will cause her to be kept
in remembrance of our associations to-
gether.
	Affectionately Inscribed,
	AURELIA S. ROGERS, Prest.

	JEMIMA WILLIS SMITH.
	We feel it a duty to record the death of
one of our beloved sisters, Jemima W.
Smith, who departed this life in 1899,
at her home in Snowflake, Arizona.
	We have known her faithfulness, wit-
nessed her sacrifices and works of charity,
her humble and true demeanor, her devo-
tion to her aged husband and her labors in
Relief Society work for many years, and
her good deeds have been inspiring unto
us. For twenty five years she never
missed a sacrament meeting or gathering of
the Relief Society unless detained by sick-
ness. Her work for the dead was not
neglected and for years, when her health
would allow, she went in person to the
Holy Temple. When too feeble she sent
the names of her dead, and always paid for
the work being done. She has been Stake
treasurer for the Relief Society for a num-
ber of years, and we her colaborers offer
these resolutions of respect as a slight
token of our love:
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That inasmuch as our Stake
treasurer, Jemima W.Smith, has been called
from our midst, we wish to express our
appreciation of her worth.
	Resolved, That we emulate her nobility
of character and unfaltering devotion to the
truth.
	Resolved, That as she has died childless
we desire by some means to perpetuate her
memory.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be re-
corded in our Stake record and a copy pub-
lished in the Woman’s Exponent.
	Emma S. Smith, Sarah Griggs, Mary J.
West, Lucy H. Flake, Frances Wells.


THE CLIFF DWELLERS.

READ AT THE U. W. P. C., MARCH 31, 1899.
	The final relations to which all knowledge
tends, are those connecting intelligent man
with the universe of which he forms a part.
	Knowledge progresses, not only by ex-
tension, but also by invention, viz.—As
the fields extend, so also knowledge be-
comes more definite, more significant, more
useful, and in every way closer to the intel-
ligent being.
	Knowledge begins with the remote, and
proceeds toward the near.
	The stars were studies, and first astrol-
ogy, and afterwards astronomy came. The
remoter lands were explored, and geography
arose. Gems and rare earth were examined,
and chemistry developed. Plants were in-
vestigated, then botany came. Animals
were subjected to research, and zoology
became a science.
	Mountains, mines, rocks and soil were
studied, and geology was organized. Man-
kind was investigated in their various as-
pects, and anthropology came into being.
	The organizations and definition of
science yields a definite basis for scientific
classification of the races and people of the
earth, including the tribes of America.
	The sixteenth annual report of the
Bureau of American Ethnology is most im-
portant, and the general work has now
reached such a stage as to afford trustworthy
standpoints for future work in Ethnic
classifications.
	The creation and migration traditions of
the Navajoes in regard to chronological
sequence and events, and the advent of the
ancestors of the Navajoes in the San Juan
valley about the end of the 15th century,
is thereby established.
	The original Navajoes were probably
cliff dwellers, and the tribes appear not to
be a ramification of the Apaches, as hither-
to supposed.
	It is probable that the Apaches were al-
ready in the San Juan region at the advent
of the Navajoes.
	By reason of limited numbers the Apach-
es and Navajoes did not molest the Pueblo
tribe prior to the 17th century. Perhaps
the most important lesson to learn through
researches concerning the American tribes,
is that primitive people reflect their environ-
ments on food yielding coasts. The
families and tribes are organized for fishing.
In the forest they are organized for chase or
for war. On the prairie they are organized
for agriculture, or for the hunting of herbi-
vores.
	In the valley and arid regions they are
organized for agriculture and defence.
Thus, you see, the social organization is
bound up with the industries, and with the
social condition.
	Mr. Minderhoff’s paper on the Cliff
Dwellers in the Canyon De Chelly, (pro-
nounced De Chaye) gives an account of the
ruins of a district but little known. He
says that it is certain that the Cliff Dwellers
migrated under the stress of predation by
neighboring tribes, into this district by
which they were fain to gather for suste-
nance and mutual protection on easily de-
fended sites, near the moist and bottom-
lands on which their crops were raised.
	His observation demonstrates that the
Cliff Dwellers were nothing more than
Indians, sometimes not related among one
another by consanguinity, nor institutional
affinity; yet related in most of their char-


[Column 1]
acteristics, not only among each other, but
with the neighboring tribes, and through
these with all the aborigines of the conti-
nent.
	The ancient village of the Canyon De
Chelly, either on the cliff, Mesa or bottom-
lands, are known as the Aztec ruins. The
Estufas of the Cliff Dwellers correspond with
the medicine lodges of the Indians of the
plains.
	It is claimed that most of the American
tribes had advanced to the stage of graphic
symbolism, and thus were on the threshold
of writing when the new world was dis-
covered by Columbus. The art was rudi-
mentary and limited to crude pictography,
which was painted or sculptured on cliff
faces, boulders, the walls of caverns and
other rocks and surfaces, and even frequent-
ly on trees, skins, barks and various artific-
lal objects. These crude autographic rec-
ords of the Indians of the United States
have been studied with care, and many of
them have been illustrated and interpreted.
	Among certain Mexican tribes autograph-
ic records were in use, and were painted
and sculptured on stone and moulded in
stucco.
	Among the Kiowa, as among other plain
Indians, and indeed all the aboriginal
tribes, there is a wide spread symbolism by
which the arts are influenced and guided,
under this symbolism, hence shields, ar-
rows, pipes, musical instruments, robes and
other articles are inscribed, painted, or
otherwise marked with designs.
	In many cases these designs possess dec-
orative value, and they are commonly sup-
posed to be used simply for decoration; but
study of the Indian character and motive
show that the design is not primarily dec-
orative, but symbolic and fraught with
meaning to those who understand symbol-
ism.
	Among the Kiowa Indians it is differen-
tiated into a crude, yet highly significant
system of heraldry, which throws much
light upon the mediaeval heraldy of
Europe.
	The Navajoes do not make any kind of
pottery, they confine themselves to blankets 
and bead work, and exchange these with
other tribes for pottery.
	Right here let me say a few words for
our cliff dwellings in Utah. I could find no
Ethnological report on it, and rely upon
the cattlemen of that section of country for
my information.
	The Ethnologist could scarcely find a
better field in which to labor with surer re-
sults than Grand and San Juan Counties,
Utah.
	The whole region bounded by the Grand
River on the north, the San Juan River on
the south, the Colorado on the north and
west, has at some period been inhabited by
a prehistoric race which in common par-
lance has been termed the Cliff Dwellers.
	You cannot travel very many miles in
this region without finding relics from
which certain conclusions may be drawn.
	The aridity of this region is, and for
centuries has been such, that certain relics
are found in a state of preservation that
would lead to the conclusion that they were
of recent manufacture, yet no tribes of
Indians have any traditions of these people.
	Immediately west of Moab the mountains
rise abruptly to an elevation of 1,500 or
2,000 feet, the top constituting what is
termed a rim rock, and back of this is a
Mesa or plateau, situated on this plateau
and looking down the valley, is an old fort.

[Column 2]
	This fort is constructed on flat rock and
the old walls, artificially built, are still in a
comparatively good condition. The en-
trance to this fort is through a hole cut
through the solid rock this hole is not
over twenty inches wide.
	In the interior are found many pieces of
broken pottery with painting on them, the
paint being burned into the pottery, the
colors being perfectly bright.
	In the western part of San Juan County
is a place called “Beef Basin” by cattlemen.
The entrance to this basin is by an old
Indian trail. The basin extends down to
the Colorado River, and surrounding it are
high mountains with rim rock and many
little canyons extending down into the
basin. All the way around this basin, a
distance of many miles, are evidences of its
having been inhabited by Cliff Dwellers.
	Their houses may be found up among
the cliffs, in the condition they left them,
This place has been explored but very
little.
	Mr. Ed Turner, of Indian Creek, is the
only person who has attempted any extend-
ed exploration, and he has been well re-
warded.
	In one of the houses he found a jar and a
blanket which had been manufactured from
cotton, and in the jar was also found loose
cotton. The blanket and cotton were in a
perfect state of preservation. This blanket
is now owned by Mr. Wheeler, cashier of a
bank in Telluride, Colo. It is highly colored
and figured, and bears a resemblance to the
Navajoe blankets now manufactured.
	Mr. V. P. Martin, who represented San
Juan County two years ago in the Legis-
lature, has many relics taken from these
houses. Stone hammers with withes
twisted around them for handles; flinty
stones, shaped like a hatchet, evidently
used for skinning knives; mocassins made
from the fibre of the soap weed; several
skeins of this fibre highly colored and
twisted together like woolen yarn; pieces
of keel showing that they had been used
for drawing the many designs on the face
of the cliffs; a piece of cloth resembling
linolium a quarter of an inch thick, tightly
woven and saturated with some kind of
pitch; a bunch of needles resembling needles
from the pinion pine trees, tightly bound
together and evidently used as a comb,
quantities of black human hair being found
at the end of the needles, or comb.
	Mr. Turner has a jar which he obtained
from one of these houses, that will hold
some three or four gallons. It is in the
shape of a keg or barrel, and is decorated
with bright colors which have been burned
in the pottery. 
	He also has a ladle or dipper that will
hold about a quart, which is highly decora-
ted. Many of the houses on the sides of
the cliffs are inaccessible, but the old ladders
that were used by the Cliff Dwellers are
still to be seen.
	A man by the name of Hammond, who
formerly lived at Kane Springs, San Juan
County, had a wicker basket made of
withes bound together with fibres of the
soap weed, and in this basket, fastened to
it with fibres, was the skeleton of a child,
which at its death was probably a year old.
	Down on the San Juan River many
skeletons have been unearthed and shipped
to Eastern colleges, some were exhibited at
the World’s Fair, in almost every instance
the remains were mummified, and some of
them indicated a stature of nearly six feet.
On some skeletons was hair light in color.

[Column 3]
	There are many of these houses around
Beef Basin that have never been explored,
and there is quite a field for those who are
interested in pictographic records of the
Indians.
	Although the Canyon De Chelly is one
of the best cliff ruin regions of the United
States, it is not easily accessible and is
practically unknown.
	In 1846-49 vague rumors were current of
wonderful cities built in the cliffs, but the
positions of the canyons in the heart of the
Navajoe country prevented exploration.
	In 1849 an expedition was sent out under
the command of Col. Washington, then
Governor of New Mexico. They camped
in Chin Lee Valley, and Lieut. Simpson
made a trip into the canyon about seven
miles; and the ruin he described is known
now as Cassa Blanca. Simpson’s descrip- 
tion, although brief, formed the basis of all
accounts for thirty years. None of the
Hayden exploration party penetrated the
canyon, only W. H. Jackson. He de-
scribes some of the ruins in the Rio De
Chelly, in the lower Chin Lee Valley, thus:
	“The strange newly discovered cities of
the southwest, the picturesque piles of
masonry of an age unknown to tradition,
these ruins marked an area among anti-
quarians. The mysterious mound builders
fade into comparative insignificance before
the grander and more ancient Cliff 
Dwellers, whose castles lift their towers 
amid the sands of Arizona, and crown the
terrace slopes of the Rio Mancas and the
Hovenweap.”
	Of the Chaco ruins he says, in size and
grandeur of conception they equal any of
the present buildings of the United States,
if we except the Capitol at Washington,
and may without discredit be compared to
the Pantheon and the Colliseum of the old
world.
	The plateau of the country is extremely
rugged, and the topographical obstacles to
travel are greater than in many wild
mountain regions.
	It is a country of cliffs and canyons, of 
considerable magnitude; and although the
strata appears to be horizontal they are 
slightly tilted. Each formation appears as
a terrace bounded on one side by a de-
scending cliff carved out of the edges of its
own strata and on the other by ascending 
cliffs carved out of the strata which over-
lie it. The most conspicuous formaton of
the whole region is a mass of red sand-
stone, out of which has been carved the
most striking and typical features, which 
will be a subject of wonder and delight to
coming generations. The most superb
canyons are the Canyon De Chelly and the
Del Maerto.
	The lofty pinnacles and towers of the San 
Juan County, the finest walls of the great
upper chasm of the Colorado, are the verti-
cal edges of this red sand stone.
	The mouth of the Canyon De Chelly is
sixty miles south of the Utah boundary,and
twenty-five miles west of that of Mexico.
	At the junction of the Canyon De Chelly
and Monument Canyon is a beautiful rock
needle or pinnacle, standing out from the
cliffs, not more than a hundred and sixty-
five feet on the ground and its height is
eight hundred feet. It has been named in
conjunction with somewhat similar pinna-
cles, “The Captains.”
	One of the characteristic features of the
canyon at the present day is the immense
number of peach trees; in one instance
there is a clump of peach trees, perhaps as


[Column 1]
many as a thousand in an orchard. When
the fruit ripens the Navajoes flock to the
place like an immense flock of vultures.
	The buildings in this canyon consist of a
conglomeration of small cells, all the houses
are two stories high and the lower story
is entered from the roof. The Estufa is
generally circular in form, the ground
plans of some ruins in the Del Maerto
show that at one time it covered consider-
able land, there remain sixteen rooms on
the ground, in addition to two Estufas.
	Another where the walls are still stand-
ing to a height of three stories, this shows
about twenty rooms, with three Estufas.
	In the center of the ruins are the remains
of a very large Estufa, over thirty six feet
in diameter.
	The largest ruin in the Canyon Del
Maerto is situated at the base of the cliff
and is known to the Navajoes as Pak-ashi-
izine, or the "Blue Cow." The name was
derived from a pictograph of a cow done in
blue paint on the walls back of the ruin.
	There appears plainly about forty rooms
with four Estufas, and traces of forty or
fifty more rooms. One of the most im-
portant ruins in this canyon is called Cassa
Blanca. It is also known under the equiva-
lent Navajoes term, Kini-na-e-kai–or
White House.
	It is evident that some of the houses were
four stories high against the cliffs. The
lower ruin covers an area of a hundred and
fifty by fifty feet. About forty five rooms
on the ground in addition to a circular
Estufa. It is probable that the lower ruins
comprised sixty rooms.
	Roof debris is especially abundant, con-
sisting of small twigs, lumps of clay, with
ends or beams projecting here or there.
All the heavy walls occur either about the
Estufa or east of it.
	Another large ruin is known as the
"Mummy Cave."
	Near the mouth of the canyon where
there is not much tillable land there are
few ruins, but where good land is plenty,
there is an abundance of ruins. Between
the mouth of the Canyon De Chelly and
the junction of Monument Canyon, only
thirteen miles, there are seventy one ruins.
	It is impossible for a writer to convey in
plain black and white any idea of the
beauties of this country. It is a land re-
quiring the painter to exhibit its beauties.
	One of the interesting peculiarities is
where a ruined house is dug into, and all
the skeletons of its occupants are found in
one room, and always near a fireplace.
	The postures of these skeletons are as
various as it is possible for the human body
to assume. They are found kneeling
sometimes with their hands locked over
their heads, stretched out straight and on
their sides, and with their children in their
arms. Hardly any two alike in the same
house.
	Mr. Davis of the Corralitos company be-
lieved that they were cut off by a violent
earthquake, and that this great cataclysm
caught them at their evening meal, as that
was the only occasion where they all
gathered together at home.
	Another interesting feature is the storage
and burial cists. Facilities for the storage
of grain and other produce are essential in
the system of agriculture, and the storage
cists are found everywhere. It is not
meant that when the crops were harvested
they were placed in these cists, and kept
there until used for the harvest was as a
rule permanently stored in the home vil-

[Column 2]
lage, and the cists were used only for
temporary storage.
	The number of burial cists in the canyon
is remarkable. There are hundreds of
them, and the remains of the Navajoe dead
may still be seen. The burial cists are
usually built in the corner or against a
wall of the cliff house. These structures are
dome shaped. As a whole the Navajoe
cists are much more difficult of access than
the ruins, and some of them are really
inaccessible.
	The Kiva or Estufa, as they formerly
were called, are sacred chambers in which
the civil and religious affairs are transacted.
And they also form a place of resort or
club for the men.
	The entrance to the Estufa is invariably
from the roof by a ladder. This appears to
be a ceremonial requirement. The greatest
care seems to be the construction and finish
of the estufa. They are used principally in
the fall and winter when the farming sea-
son is over, then the ceremonies and dances
take place.
	Most of the Estufas have a bench around
them about a foot wide and two feet high.
The most elaborate Estufa is found in the
Mummy Cave ruin. Bands with points
occur sometimes on the walls, which are
treated as a picturegraph, about fifteen
miles from Moab, there are many rocks
covered with writings similar to these.
	When you ask a Navajoe what became
of the people who built the houses in Can-
yon De Chelly, he will say, "A great wind
arose and swept them all away," which is
equivalent to saying that they do not know.
	To understand the ruins so profusely
scattered in the Pueblo country, we must
have some knowledge of the condition un-
der which the inhabitants lived. There is
no warrant whatever for the old assumption
that the Cliff Dwellers, were a separate race,
and the cliff dwellers must be regarded as
only a phase of Pueblo architecture.
	The peculiarities of Pueblo architecture is
that its results were always retained by em-
ployment of the material at hand. Noth-
ing is transported to any distance. The
geological and topographical environments
of the Canyon De Chelly was favored by
the Cliff Dwellers, as it was a good place
for the practise of horticulture. The sites
are all selected with a view to an outlook
over some adjacent area of cultivatable
land. The same sites are used today by
the Navajoes in connection with farming
operations.
	The cliffs in the Canyon De Chelly, the
Cavate lodges of New Mexico and Arizona,
the watch tower of San Juan, the
summer villages attached to many of the
Pebelos, are all functionally analogous, and
all are the outgrowth of certain industrial
requirements. And the example of a
primitive people who entered the region
with preconceived and fully developed
ideas, but who left it before those ideas
were fully brought into accord with the
environments, but not before they were
influenced by it.
LUELLA M. RHODES.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The annual convention of the Daughters
of the Revolution will be held at the Hotel
Stratford, Philadelphia, on April 24.
While the actual date of the business ses-
sion is Monday, April 24, the meeting will
extend over the entire week, beginning on
Sunday 23, with a special service for the
Daughters at Christ Church.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	 to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have 
	you such an account? If not, open
	 one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. l-3-5 Main Street.

NOTICE.

	To complete my volumes of the Woman’s
Exponent I lack the following numbers:
Volume VII., No. 3, July 1, 1878; Volume
XI., No. 16, January 15, 1873; Volume XIII.
Nos. 1 and 2, June 1 and 15, 1884; Vol-
ume XVI., No. 20, March 15, 1888; also
April 1, 1892, and October 1, 1895.
	To any one willing to part with them I
will pay ten cents a paper, but please com-
municate by letter or card before sending
papers. Address
			   ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Room 226 Constitution Bldg., S. L. City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.

ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver....................................................................3:30 a.m. 
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Francisco.......................................................................8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver..........3:05 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco.....................7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate
	points.............................................................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points........................6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus..................................................6:00 p.m.

DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis....................................................7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and intermediate points................8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points.......................8:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco........6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco............................9:45 a.m.
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco.............................5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminus....................................................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays
	*Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.
	S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY.
Gen. Traffic Manager.	Gen. P. and T. Agent
			 W. H. BANCROFT.
	Vice President and Gen’l Manager.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

