VOL. 27. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15 1898.	NO. 14


CONTENTS:
	Press Club Entertainment. Politics—A Mug-
wump. An Incident—Ida. R. S. Report. A
Loving Tribute—Richard S. Horne. U. W. P. [-].
—Ruth M. Fox, Asst. Sec. The Life and Works
of Susan B. Anthony. General Relief Society
Conference—E. B. Wells, Sec. In Memoriam.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting.
	EDITORIAL:—A Christmas Thought. Thoughts.
Christmas Again. President Sarah M. Kimball.
Musings and Memories. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—A Lover’s Sentiment—L. L. Greene 
Richards. Old Father Time—Selected.


A LOVER’S SENTIMENT.

FOR SISTER M. I. HORNE ON HER EIGHTIETH BIRTH -
DAY, NOV. 20, 1898.

’Tis not “too much” that reverence should be
	shown,
Where such integrity as thine is known,
Love, the “fulfilling of the law” is here.
That “perfect love” which “casteth out all fear.”
The love which faith and confidence inspire,
Which knows no guile and no unjust desire.
Lovers and sweethearts in the balmy days
Of young, sweet love, repeat each other’s prai[-]e;
And so will we; there is no higher theme
Than holy love, pure as an infant’s dream
Our “Sweetheart” of today has proven true
[-]hrough eighty years; in Kirtland and Nauvoo
She with the prophet and his people fared,
And all the trials of the Saints has shared.
So speak her worthiness whoever may,
To high a tribute none of us can pay.
Sweethearts and lovers, with rich thoughts sub-
	lime,
Oft set dear names to music or to rhyme;
And so will we in joyous measures tell
Of our great love for Mary Isabelle
’Tis not “too much,” that honor should be done,
To loyalty like thine, dear honored one
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
PRESS CLUB ENTERTAINMENT.

	The Utah Woman’s Press Club were de-
lightfully entertained at Mrs. Arthur
Brown’s commodious residence on Friday
afternoon, Dec. 9. The literary feature of
this charming social function was the toasts
given at table, though the luncheon was a
delicious affair in itself. The hostess gave
the subject and a quotation applicable from
some well known author. Prayer by Mrs.
Doolan. Song “America” by the club,
Annie M. Bradley accompanist.
TOASTS.
	“Benjamin Franklin.” A concise and
omprehensive sketch of Franklin was given
by L. M. Rhodes.
	“Utah Woman’s Press Club, Its Origin,
Its Present, Its Future,” Emmeline B.
Wells.
	“Utah’s Pioneer Women,” Phebe C.
Young.
	“The Freedom of the Press,” Dr. R. B.
Pratt.
	“The freedom of the press is essential to
civic and religious liberty and in the out-
come of freedom of speech and thought.
	It was said by high authority that the

[Column 2]
late grand victory in our war with Spain
was due to American individualism more
than to anything else. Freedom of the
press does not mean license. It does not
mean that a knight of the quill has a right
to vent his spleen on private individuals, or
give him the right to invade the sanctity of
the home. Public people who have charge
of public affairs are proper subjects of press
praise or criticism and the press acts as
guards on the tower, to watch over the wel-
fare of the people and the nation. Kept
within its own sphere the press is the ex-
ponent of right, the champion of liberty and
the promulgator of intelligence, and its
freedom should be maintained by every in-
telligent being, society and nation.”
	“Women as Bread Winners.” Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp.
	“Since time immemorial when Ruth went
into the fields to follow the reapers and pick
up the heads of golden grain, have some
women been bread winners. Today we
find many notable instances, women who
win bread not only for themselves, but fam-
lies, etc., and various are the occupations.
In early times, before suffrage, that bright
star of civilization shed its beneficent rays
upon the world, women were obliged in
order to gain a livelihood to resort to the
most menial toil. Hood’s “Song of the
Shirt,” and Miss Alcott’s “Song of the
Tub,” give vivid pictures. But how
changed! and this change has been wrought
by noble women! Through the heroic
efforts of such workers as our own Susan B.
Anthony and others like unto her, woman
is found in the professions and in places of
trust with competent salaries. Would that
this reformation were universal.”
	“The Club Woman,” J. A. Farnsworth.
	“Sarah E. Carmichael, Utah’s Immortal
Poetess,” Lydia Alder.
	“Fanny Burney Mad. D’Arblay,” Ella
W. Hyde.
	“Women Engaged in Journalism in Utah”
Ruth M. Fox.
	“The Woman Reporter,” Annie M.
Bradley.
	“In tracing the evolution of the newspaper
we find the development of the woman re
porter has kept pace with the strides of wo-
men in every other department of life.
“Once I lived apart, now I live with all.”
Only a few years since and the “sphere” of
the woman reporter was “Woman’s World,”
“Fads and Fancies of Women,” “Essential-
ly Feminine,” “Society,” and “My Ladies
Toilet,” Long and various the report of
foolish gossip we have read. But so nar-
row a sphere could not long satisfy, those
whose energies were undaunted. She is
now a thief and a pirate of the universe
with many fashions and addresses, who
writes the adventures her eye has seen and
her ear has heard in many styles as bright
and keen as were ever penned by her worthy
brother in the profession. We find her with,
	“An energy that searches through
	From Chaos to the dawning morning,
	Into all our human plight,
	The soul’s pilgrimage of flight;

[Column 3]
	Without halting; without rest,
	Sifting Better up to Best;
	Planting seeds of knowledge pure, 
	Through earth to ripen through heaven
		endure.”
	The natural instinct of woman, which is
much keener than that possessed by man,
seems to peculiarly fit her for the work, and
the public have found the woman reporter
as
	“Inquisitive, fierce and fasting,
	Restless, predatory, hasting,
as any one could possibly be. Let us
spread her a welcome wherever she goes.”
	Reading of Sarah E. Carmichael’s poem
“The Origin of Gold,” by Mrs. Alder. 
Singing by the club “Auld Lang Syne.”


POLITICS.

	Politics! Politics!! Party! Party!! Party
politics, till one’s soul is sick of the words
and all their paltry meanings! The parti-
sans of every party plow the whole field of
history, past, present and to come, for roots
of laudation of their party. According
to them every blessing which ever did,
does now, or ever will, descend like rain on
the just and the unjust, from a famine in
India or the sinking of a hostile fleet, to six-
teen chickens at one hatch, is directly trac-
able to the wisdom, forethought and phil-
anthropy of Our Party; and all the ills of
life from a cyclone or a labor strike to old
Brindle dead in the lucern patch, or a sliver
under your thumb nail, was just as surely 
caused by the ignorance, greed and general
mismanagement of Your Party.
	When one party puts a name at its head
that bristles with as many serpents of men-
ace as the head of Medusa, and you talk of
scratching it off, what an outcry is raised
about “going against the party.”
	When two equally good and efficient men
are named on different tickets for one office,
and you choose to take into consideration
some difference—we will say in physical
strength or financial circumctances, to
favor the less fortunate, you raise another
hullabaloo about “damaging the party!”
I say “To Blazes with party” if it makes
slaves of the voters.
	In the present campaign scarcely a wo-
man’s name appears on any ticket. Since
woman’s citizenship is part of the State
Constitution, and since women are human,
they ought to participate in the privileges
as well as penalties of humanity. Canvas-
sers have been very active in calling at the
homes of the voters to inquire if they were
duly registered, and to recommend either
self of self’s party to your kind considera-
tion.
	You perhaps take the liberty to ask if
there was no woman in that or any other
party who could be trusted to fill that or
any other office. Some professed to be as
much at a loss as the questioner, and some
indulged in wild guesses.
	After carefully sifting the bushel of chaff
you find at the bottom a single grain of—
smut, which says “A woman’s name weak-


[Column 1]
ens the party ticket, because—because—the
women voters will not vote for a woman.”
	Fellow women, is this contemptible thing
true? or is it only a dingy veil used to
screen the faces of the men voters who will
not vote for a woman?
	If it is true let us begin down at a b c,
and organize little Civil Government classes
and study the Declaration of Independence,
the Constitution of the United States, and
the condition of society and of the country
at the time these documents were framed.
As we advance we might brush up on the
Salic Law the Common Law and give spec-
ial attention to such points, as Marriage
Laws, Guardianship of Minors, Inheritance,
The Widow’s Incumbrance, and many
shining spots where light is to be obtained.
As side studies we might look into some of
the procedures of the Courts of Common
Pleas and learn by eye and ear witness how
the laws materialize in practice; and if, after
completing the course in these branches of
education, we still decline to vote for wo-
men, our case is hopeless; and our masters
should pierce our ears with awls against the
doorposts, that we may remain their ser-
vants forever.
	If it is not true that we prefer in all
cases to vote for men, if the clean sweep of
women’s names from all the tickets is only
a selfish grab of our brothers at the “hon-
ors and emoluments” of public duty, we
should express our displeasure in plain, un-
equivocal terms, and see that it does not
happen another time.
	One canvasser whom I asked concerning
this matter said, “All those men offered
themselves for those places and women did
not. I think that is the way it happened.
People must ask for what they want in this
world.”
	“Is that not branding us a nation of
office seekers?” I asked. “Well, yes, that’s
about the size of it,” he replied.
	Fellow citizens, is this true? Are we a
nation of office seekers? Is there no other
and better way of distributing public trusts
than placing them in the keeping of men or
women who importune for them? Is our
political maxim “To the victor belong the
spoils?” Where then is patriotism? Dead
or only sleeping?
	Oh, that we could be patriots without be-
ing partisans, and that principles of pure
right, not time-serving policy, could be the
mainspring of our actions, private and pub-
lic! Would we could hear more about the
general weal of our whole country, and less
about the East and the West; more about
developing the grand resources, and less
about “Corners and Giant Trusts;” more
about prosperous rural communities, and
less about millionaires.
	Would that the poor might receive such
aid and favor as would lift them out of their
misery, rather than be given additional bur-
dens of taxation and the necessity of paying
“protected” prices for the necessaries of
life. Would that “protection” would pro-
tect the weak as well as the strong, the con-
sumer as well as the producer.
	If protection be the great beneficence we
are told, then give us plenty of it, that our
crying needs may be satisfied. Why should
not timber, water, coal etc., as well as land
belong to the general government as trustee
in trust for the public? They are all mat-
ters of general and urgent necessity, and
monopoly by the few against the many
should be made impossible.
	Why should not railroads, banks and all

[Column 2]
other public service, as well as postal ser-
vice, be taken in charge by general and
municipal government, for the benefit of
the public? Such protection would pro-
tect alike the great and the small.
	Until some such desirable ends have been
accomplished let no man boast overmuch of
his party; and as for one small unit of the
body politic, Yours Truly will belong to
no party. Thus I close the door against
the temptation to become an office seeker;
and if I honor and choose to vote for Frank
J. Cannon because he had the courage to
draw back from that protection which pro
tects “only the favored few,” no party
lash can be laid on me for doing so. If I
choose to scratch the name of some candi-
date whose private character is immoral, no
one can say me nay. If I choose to vote
for a woman, I reserve the right to do so.
	Rather than be a party hack, I will be
written down to the end of the chapter,
					A MUGWUMP.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
AN INCIDENT.

	Mrs. S: “Will you perform an errand
for me?”
	Mrs. H: “With pleasure, anything that
lies in my power.”
	Mrs. S: “Well then, I wish you
while in the city to call on Mrs. Wells and
ask her to please discontinue the “Ex-
ponent” to me.”
	I looked at the invalid (for she had been
one for many months) in surprise, as I
knew her to be an earnest worker in the
woman’s cause, and a staunch advocate of
the “Exponent.”
	“I see you are surprised,” she said, “it
is true I will greatly miss the little wo-
man’s friend, but I cannot meet the pay-
ment since my illness and I don’t wish to
add to the great burden the editor already
carries. I fully realize she has much to
contend with.”
	As I gazed upon her pale and much
wasted face I thought with regret how
careless on this little matter many of us
were that are well and able to do. As I
reflected an incident that came under my
notice a few years back came to my mind.
	After having left the “Exponent” office I
met a lady who asked to be directed there,
and then asked if she would be able to find
Mrs. Wells in as she was anxious to get a
copy of the paper, for she dearly loved to
read it.
	In much surprise I ventured to ask her
why she did not become a regular subscrib-
er, for it was easy to be seen she was a lady
of means.
	“I was a subscriber at one time,” she re-
plied, “but now the children are growing
up it seems they must have other reading.
Such as the “Exponent” and the Juvenile
are too dry for them, they must take
the New York Ledger.” She then men-
tioned other periodicals equally as trashy,
ending by saying with a heavy sigh‘ “You
see my expenses are very heavy.”
	I replied I thought they were, but in my
own mind I communed thus: “Horrors!
can it be possible that there are many moth-
ers in Israel in this dire condition?” Since
then, I regret to say, I have found many
just such cases.
	Years may come and go, I don’t think I
shall ever completely efface from my mem-
ory the vision of the sad faced mother as
she stood talking to me that day. And it

[Column 2]
is not always we mothers that make these
grievous mistakes.
	Another incident is recalled in which a
father figures and a teacher (without the
least disrespect to the office of a teacher.)
One evening while sitting reading an inter-
esting article in the Juvenile, the gentleman
in question called for my husband to assist
him in his rounds as a teacher. While
waiting for him to make ready he spoke of
the Juvenile, as he noticed I had been read-
ing in it.
	“Yes,” he said, “it is a nice little maga-
zine, but I am not taking it now, can’t af-
ford it. My children are reading a nice
continued story in an Eastern paper we are
taking. They can hardly wait for the time
for it to come.”
	Oh! let us as mothers in Israel choose
good reading for our children, that we may
do nothing that will in any way tarnish
their characters; and remember the beauti-
ful poem which says,
“Build well the temple ye mothers of men;
For know ye are builders for glory or shame,
Know ye are building for weakness or might,
Know ye are building for darkness or light.”
IDA.


R. S. REPORT.
		PUEBLO, COLORADO.
Editor Exponent:
	Thinking you would like to hear how we
are progressing here in Pueblo, I thought I
would send you a few lines. Since we
were organized in July by Apostle John W.
Taylor and Sister Susa Young Gates we
have had splendid meetings. Our meet-
ings are held every first Thursday in the
month and the number has never fallen be-
low the first meeting, but we are constant-
ly adding one or two to our number. The
sisters have been liberal with their dona-
tions and the teachers say it is a pleasure to
visit among them. We gave the Sunday
School, numbering fifty, a Twenty Fourth
of July celebration and sent to Utah for all
the books we needed, and still we have a
nice sum in the treasury.
	I am sorry to say that our beloved presi-
dent, Elizabeth Hart, has been very sick,
and for some four weeks we did not know
whether she would ever come to another
meeting or not. Her husband did not
leave her night or day for nearly five weeks,
thinking that she might die at any time;
but she is now recovering, which we are all
thankful for.
	We had a very nice visit from Sister
Susa Young Gates in July, and she gave
us some good counsel. We have just start-
ed to make quilts. With this letter the
president is sending for the "Exponent."
		Your sister in the Gospel,
	ELLA BRANCH, Sec.


At the state convention of the Daughters
of the American Revolution at Norfolk, Va.,
Mrs. Herbert Doyle Brackett of Alex-
andria, reported that $41,000 of the amount
required for the building which the Daugh-
ters propose to erect in Washington was
now in hand. It was decided that further
contribution to the building fund would be
asked at each chapter. The building is to
be the national headquarters for the society,
and will be known as Continental Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OLD FATHER TIME.

Old Time is a good o[-]d man,
	What though his step be not gay,
He trud[-]es along as well as [-]e can,
He trudges along still with equal span,
		With his scythe in his hand,
		And his time-piece of sand,
	And his single lock glossy and gray.

Full many joys he bears,
	Full many griefs he brings,
Yet thinketh he naught of the load of cares,
Contained in his wallet, nor wots who shares,
		But indifferent smiles
		On the world and its wiles,
	On the beggar’s lot or the fate of kings.

The years in their flight he measures,
	As round his dial they climb;
But we, alas ! scarce value his treasures,
We’re thinking now of the seasons pleasures
		When cares we lay by,
		When we banish each sigh
	For the song and dance of Christmas time.

Hail, then, December, th ugh old and hoary!
	Fresh fagots pile on the bright fire,
And listen awhile to the comical story,
[-]he year’s departu[-]e let us crown with glory,
		By the embers bright glow,
		We’ll defy frost and snow,
	While the whistling wind joins in the choir.
SELECTED.


[Column 1]
	A LOVING TRIBUTE.

TO MY MOTHER ON REACHING HER 
EIGHTIETH YEAR NOV. 1898.

Dear Mother

	Through the blessings of a kind, loving
Father, whose children we are, you have
been permitted to remain in mortality to
the ripe age of four score years. Eighty
years of probation in this world of care,
sorrow and trouble have proven your integ-
rity and womanhood to be equal to all
emergencies.
	Born in a foreign land, fostered under an
alien government, but brought under the
royal emblems of liberty and peace in early
womanhood, you have proven your fidelity
to your country and its constitutions under
the most trying ordeals of life. True to
your convictions of right you have not
swerved from the truth as it came to your
heart through the light of the Gospel of the
Lord Jesus Christ.
	Drivings, mobbings, the trials and suffer-
ings incident to exile and pioneer life have
failed to weaken your trust in a divine
work, but have caused you to remain firm
to the last.
	We hail you as our mother, and sincere-
ly hope that the remaining years of your
stay with us will be your happiest, best
ones on earth.
	As one to whom you have given birth in
the flesh. I must respectfully bow in hom-
age to my mother, and tender a son’s filial
love and gratitude. To you and your kind,
motherly affection and interest in me in my
young days I owe much of the little good
that is within me.
	Ever solicitous for the welfare of those
whom God has intrusted to you, and wish-
ing all your children to follow paths of
honor and righteousness, you have careful-
ly guarded us against the wiles and snares
of the ungodly.
	Admonished and advised by you when
the tempter’s wiles and fascinations were
wrapped about me, I was saved from fol- 

[Column 2]
lies and sins so common to youth, and to
which I might have yielded. By your kind
hints and counsels I was taught that respect
which is due to seniors and superiors.
	Respect for the afflicted, decrepit and in-
firm and sorrow-stricken was awakened
early in my mind by your worthy example,
as well as your wise instructions.
	If aught in my life has caused you regret
or suffering, I trust you will extend pardon
therefore; that you will ever remain solici-
tous for my welfare, and still advise, coun-
sel and admonish, as your mother-love and
wisdom may dictate.
	May the choicest blessings of our Heaven-
ly Father be liberally showered upon you;
may His Holy Spirit be your constant com-
panion;may your earthly joys daily increase;
may your happiness be greatly multiplied
in the love and loyal homage of your chil-
dren, grandchildren and great grandchil-
dren;may your favor with the Lord and His
Holy Priesthood and Saints prove an anchor
of hope to your soul in all your remaining
days on the earth; may a happy reunion be-
yond the vail with loved ones gone before,
and chosen ones of our Father’s household
be your reward when you have done with
this mortal life, is the earnest desire of
Your loving son,
	RICHARD S. HORNE.


U. W. P. C.
	The regular meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held in the “Exponent” office Nov. 30,
1898, the new president, Ella W. Hyde, in
the chair. Mrs. E. B. Wells offered prayer.
Roll call was ahswered by miscellaneous
sentiments. Minutes of annual meeting
read and approved.
	The new president then made a happy
little speech, thanking the ladies for the
honor conferred and expressing a desire for
the future advancement of the club. Under
unfinished business the matter of incorpor-
ating came up and was again laid over.
Under head of new business a note was
read from the secretary of the General
Federation asking members to subscribe for
the Biennial report of the General Federa-
tion for 1898. Ruth M. Fox was nomina-
ted by E. B. Wells and seconded by Lucy
A. Clark for director to the State Federa-
tion; carried.
	Miss Julia Farnsworth then gave a very
interesting and instructive paper on the
Phillipines, followed by discussion. A con-
cise and pithy paper on Current Events was
given by Mrs. L. M. Rhodes. A pretty
original poem entitled “Life” by Phebe C.
Young finished the program.
	Mrs. I. Cameron Brown kindly invited
every member of the club to meet at her
home, 201, E. South Temple St., at 2
o’clock on December 9.
	The program for next meeting was read,
and after benediction by Dr. E. R. Shipp
the club adjourned to meet at the rooms of
Dr. E. R. Shipp, Constitution Building,
for the December meeting.
	RUTH M. FOX, Asst. Sec.


THE LIFE AND WORK OF SUSAN B.
			ANTHONY.

		BY IDA HUSTED HARPER.

	The life and work of Susan B. Anthony
is far more than the recital of one woman’s
experience, even though that woman be the
most interesting personality of the  century.


It is a history of the great evolution of the
status of woman, in which Miss Anthony
has been the central figure. It pictures the
struggle to obtain the right for woman to
speak in public; first in behalf of the slave,
then in the interest of temperance, and at
last for her own freedom,for laws to secure to
herself the control of her own property, her
wages, her person and her children. Then
follows the long continued battle for equal
educational advantages and equal industrial
opportunities, and last and longest of all for
the citizen’s right to the franchise.
	The work consists of two large volumes,
copiously illustrated with over fifty portraits
of Miss Anthony and her colaborers, en-
gravings of her different homes, old Quaker
meeting house, and a large number of let-
ters and autographs of distinguished men
and women. The facts and dates of each
chapter have received Miss Anthony’s per-
sonal approval; and this is the only authen-
tic biography of her that ever can be written,
as the letters and documents will not be ac-
cessible to other historians. This work fol-
lows consecutively the history of one of the
greatest woman reformers. The early
chapters describe her ancestry, home, child-
hood and life in a Quaker boarding school,
the last told in her own quaint letters and
diaries. Later chapters depict her experi-
ence as a teacher related in her own charact-
eristic letters, the moving to Rochester by
canal in 1845; evolution from schoolroom
into pupil life,then follow:—Early Laws for
Women; History of the Bloomer Costume;
Canvass of the State of NewYork in Sleigh;
Anti-Slavery Work with Letters from Gar-
rison, Greeley, May, Gerritt, Smith, etc.;
Campaigning with the Garrisonians; The
Mobs; Letters from Phillips, Curtis, Pills-
bury, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, the Fosters and Others; The Marriage
and Divorce Question; The War and the
Woman’s Loyal League;Reconstruction and
Fight over Fourteenth Amendment; Kan-
sas and George Francis Train; Publishing
the Revolution; Fiftieth Birthday Celebra-
tion and Poem by Phoebe Cary; The Mc-
Farland Richardson Case; Victoria Wood-
hull;Arrest and Trial for Voting Under the
Fourteenth Amendment; Beecher-Tilton
Trial; The Woman’s Fourth of July in 1876;
Ten Years on the Lyceum Platform; A
Year in Europe; Appealing to Congress
for Thirty-Three Years; Suffrage Amend-
ment Campaign in Eight States; Practical
vs. Theoretical Religion; Pronounced Opin-
ons on Vital Questions: Thirty Years' Ex-
perience with Political Conv ntions and
Pa ties; Gathering of the Anthony Clans in
1897; Final Triumphs, Honors, Tributes,
etc.


We should always keep a corner of our
minds open and free, that we may make
room for the opinions of our friends. Let
us have heart and mind hospitality.

	Miss Olive Schreiner positively refuses to
see an interviewer. To a young reporter
who approached her on her African farm
she said:
	I heartily condemn the modern interview.
A person is ensnared into a light and
superficial colloquy upon a subject which
demands deep thought and mature reflec-
tion. If a man or a woman has a message
to issue it cannot be uttered forcefully in
one of these "interviews." ‘‘Interviews’’
are abominations which accentuate the per-
 onality at the expense of the principle.


WOMANS' EXPONENT.

			WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	 -	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to

		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pthe ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

	SALT LAKE CITY DECEMBER 15, 1898.


A CHRISTMAS THOUGHT.
   
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also
individual subscribers indebted for the
paper are urgently requested to settle all old
accounts at the earliest date possible. This
becomes an absolute necessity on account
of the change that takes place in the man-
agement of the Deseret Evening News.
The “Exponent” will not be sent to any
subscriber after January 1899 unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due in
addition to the printed matter.

	In consideration of the value of the“Ex-
ponent” to the Relief Society, and because
of the work it has done in the cause of suf-
frage as well as the general educational
help it has given the women of this inter-
mountain country,it seems scarcely possible
that women should be so careless of their
own interest as to let the paper languish for
want of support, yet the fact remains, and
it is impossible to say what the women will
do in the matter.
	With the Relief Society of 30,000 women
if one tenth of the number would take the
paper and pay cash down it could be carried
safely, yet that has been looked for, hoped
for, and waited for in vain What the “Ex-
ponent” has done to keep the society in
various Stakes and in different parts of the
world in touch with each other is of more
value than the few hundred dollars it would
take to maintain it independently. Appeal
after appeal has been made through the
columns of the paper and by those who are
its faithful supporters in public and in
private, and yet the failure to come forward
with financial aid. At one dollar per year
it seems incredible that sisters who have the
cause of Zion at heart and who know as
many hundreds do know, the generous
help the “Exponent” has given in ways al-
most innumerable, should not immediately
raise the necessary funds, through large
numbers of subscription. Beside the great
need the Relief Society has for an organ, of
its own the silk industry needs it quite as
much and both should have its support
through the liberal patronage of the women
of Zion.


There are two things in which we should
thoroughly train onrselves—to be slow in
aking offence, and to be slowed in giving it.


THOUGHTS. 

	Having been asked “Does the Woman’s
ballot purify politics?” in responding my
inclination would be to say “Yes, conditions
being fair,” but the experience I have had
proves it will take years to accomplish what
the best women desire. However, the de-
cidedly moral and spiritual element with
which woman is naturally endowed must
produce a salutary effect in the realm of
politics.
	If we go back to history we find no na-
tion was ever wrecked so long as women
wielded a powerful influence. Woman is
to be redeemed from the curse, and that is
the true interpretation of the phrase “The
nineteenth century is woman’s era”—the
work has begun and is fast going forward.
One of the most potent forces in this revo-
lution of things is the ballot. Women have
not usurped this honor—behind them is
the sentiment and the accumulation of
force, if we may be permitted the use of the
term, that the age has brought with it
which comes from a source unknown to any
except the wise, who see as poets and proph-
ets do, things that are not perceptible to the
natural eye, and hear voices that are not
heard by the multitude. The plan of re-
demption is as real and as true as was the
creation.
	Woman is one of the strongest forces in
the spiritual world of thought and of action.
Who does not know that when awakened
by trials accidents of fortune or misfortune
woman turns to God, and seeks strength
from the heavenly fountain of inspiration
through prayer and devotion, and necessa
rily by the sincerity of her purpose in all she
undertakes for the betterment of humanity
her very purity of motive and exalted views
bring about an uplifting wherever her in-
fluence spreads. It is the soul-type in wo-
man, that sacrifice of self, that obedience to
the Savior’s golden rule, “Do to others as
ye would they should do to you,” that is
ever helpful. It is that element which made
her last at the cross and first at the sepul-
chre.
	When the franchise has been extended
over more space, and embraces more people
and peoples, or more nations, then we may
be able to see what a powerful factor for the
amelioration and purification of society it
will become; and, therefore, in conclusion
let me exhort every woman in the states
that have equal suffrage, not to grow indif-
ferent to the power she has in her own pos-
session, the ballot; and because two years
or more have not worked a miracle toss
aside the weapon of defense and of author-
ity given her; but with an effort worthy the
most profound patriotism use her utmost
endeavors to induce Congress through its
legislation to carry the sixteenth amend-
ment, which has been so long pending be-
fore that Honorable Body.
	There is no other vitalizing force that can
permeate every home and appeal to every
individual citizen as the ballot can, there-
fore it must be the mightiest lever to uplift
and to regenerate the world.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS AGAIN.

	Here comes Christmas again with all its
delightful accompaniments and memories.
No day in all the year for the children like
Christmas with its wonders and its legends,
fairy tales and above all Santa Claus, for 
whom they long and wait, and even pray,

[Column 2]
so enthusiastic are they about his coming.
Dear old Santa Claus! What gladness he
brings to many thousands of homes, and
alas for those bereft of children or where
none ever came to bless and kindle new
life in human hearts. But the children,
Santa Claus belongs especially to them,
they watch for him carefully, continuously,
getting up at unseasonable hours to try and
surprise him and to see which way he
comes; whether over the roof with his rein-
deers and sled and down the chimney, or
through the window, or stealing in softly
when the door is open and hiding until all
are asleep in the house to make his raid as
the Brownies do. What fantastic visions
the little folks conjure up of the visits of
Santa Claus. Christmas is the day of all
days for the little folks, no other day in the
year is so attractive, not even the 4th of
July with its flags, banners, music, parades
and booming of cannon; nor yet the child’s
own birthday when he is “cock of the
walk,” so to speak. Is it because of the
delusion of Santa Claus that fires the child’s
imagination? partly so it must be. And
those of older growth, they, too, are fasci-
nated with delusions and fancies. And it
this only happened one day in the year one
might be more excusable.
	This is the day of love in every house-
hold, of peace on earth and good will to all
mankind, and every one who feels the im-
portance of the sweet charity the Savior
taught and practised should himself exer-
cise that sweet spirit of sublime and heaven-
ly grace which reflects as much upon the
giver as the receiver. The scripture says
“It is more blessed to give than to receive,”
and it is a divine truth,as many can testify.
	To know how to give acceptably is an
art in itself and one which many people do
not understand; to give ostentatiously is al-
ways an offense, even though the giver
may have the best of motives. It is true
that Christmas opens a wide door for gifts
to loved ones as well as for charity, but
nevertheless, careless giving especially of
charity, sometimes makes the recipient feel
he would rather starve. We are all, or al-
most all, too neglectful of the little courte-
sies and proprieties of life; we excuse our-
selves because there is so much to be done,
and we say this is an age of hurry and bus-
tle. But when one looks around and finds
those who do things of this sort beautifully,
in such a way that there is no possible
chance of criticism, then we wonder what is
the reason that others could not do as well.
A gift is not so much in itself as in the
manner of giving.
	Children should be taught to give in the
spirit of love and sweetness, and then there
would be greater pleasure and more satis-
faction in small things. As a people we
have grown so selfish ourselves with the
prosperity the Lord has blessed us with,
that we feel unless we can give largely we
must not give at all. Yet when we look
back and recall the early days in this valley
and the few little comforts we had for the
children at Christmas time and compare it
with the present, its loads of toys and beau-
tiful as well as useful things it seems in-
credible. And are we happier or better, or
are the children any more satisfied ? We
think not. The molasses candy, ginger
bread and dough-nuts Santa Claus brought
then were as acceptable as the best sweet-
meats and Hiler’s candy and wax dolls that
can open and shut their eyes instead of the
rag babies made by their own mamma’s


deft fingers, into which she put so many
loving stitches.
	Yes we have a different Christmas now,
and this year we have much to be thankful
for and to rejoice over. Many little ones
whose father went to battle have him home
with them for the jolly Christmas. And
some whose homes are not so blest, yet
know the war is over and look forward to
the home coming with joyful anticipation.
	There has been a bountiful harvest, the
Lord has blest His people wonderfully and
the children should be made to realize this,
and to comprehend how the Lord has pro-
vided for the needs of His people and given
them an abundance and to spare, so that
on this Christmas day in all the valleys of
this Western land, there should be no
scarcity in any home and certainly not
where there are those, blessed messengers of
relief, Bishops and sisters of the Relief
Society. The dear, old people who are so
much alone in the world, more even than
the children should be richly remembered
at Christmas. They are as fond of dainties
as the children, though they cannot keep
up the delusion of Santa Claus, and if the
children were taught to divide with the
aged people of their own locality, those who
have no grandchildren of their own to come
and bring them delicacies, it would be a
greater blessing to the children than to
those to whom they minister in innocence
and love. So let us learn the Christ lesson.
If we only give to those who can give to us
in return, we are not the true followers of
the lowly Nazarene whose birth we cele-
brate, (even though we have long since
learned that it was not the day of his birth.)
Christmas has so long been kept on this
particular day that a change all over the
world could scarcely be effected.
	This year, 1898, Christmas comes on the
Sabbath day and therefore festivities will
be observed upon Saturday or Monday, or
both as the case may be, but the children
will probably receive fruitful lessons at the
Christmas Sunday School.
	Already the city has put on its holiday
appearance, and never was there more dis-
play. Stores, shops and business houses of
all kinds are in gala dress, and the brighter,
gayer colors that have been the rage the
last year or more add to the brilliancy of
the decorations. In the midst of all this
display perhaps there is as much delusion
as attaches to Santa Claus. The home and
the fireside is always connected with Christ-
mas so closely that one invariably thinks of
the yule log, or the huge pine knots and
the joys of social or even jovial family inter-
course. “The holly round the Christmas
hearth” has become proverbial, and

	‘‘At Christmas time the open hand,
	Scatters bounty o’er sea and land.”

	It is good that we have the holidays,
what would life be without these seasons of
renewal? It makes us almost young again
to participate in such rejoicings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT SARAH M. KIMBALL. 
	Sister Kimball whose departure from this
life took place on Thursday evening, Dec.
1, 1898, at ten minutes to six, was a prom-
inent woman in the history of the Church.
She was connected with it as a member
when a very young girl and figured in its
history to the time of her death. She was
born in Phelps, Ontario Co., New York
State, Dec. 29, 1818, but her parents moved

[Column 2]
to Kirtland, Ohio, soon after the Church
was established there, and were associated
with the Prophet Joseph intimately. Sarah
M., whose maiden name was Granger, at-
tended the Hebrew school in Kirtland, with
Joseph Smith and others who were among
the foremost leaders of the Church in early
days. As a young girl she had excellent
opportunities for advancement and cultiva-
tion, and the knowledge acquired was a
good foundation for her subsequent career
as a teacher and as a leader among women.
Her father and mother were Oliver and
Lydia Dibble Granger and well known in
Church history. ( Of their family only three
grew to man and womanhood. Fayette
Granger, the eldest, was well known in
Utah in the early days as a sort of pioneer,
and spent most of his time on the frontiers.
Farley went to California and settled and is
still residing there.)
	Oliver Granger, the father, is mentioned
in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants,
section 117, in a revelation given to the
Prophet Joseph in Far West, Missouri,
July 8, 1838, (Brother Granger was still in
Kirtland,) and there were many precious
promises made to him at that time. Not
only to Brother Granger but to Sarah were
promises made by the Prophet that were
very sacred and very comforting to her
throughout her life.
	After the Saints gathered to Nauvoo
Miss Granger became acquainted with
Hiram Kimball, who was a resident and
land owner of the town of Commerce, as it
was then called. They were married in
Kirtland, Ohio, but came to dwell in Nau-
voo where they had a lovely home, and
Mr. Kimball figured conspicuously in busi-
ness and was very prosperous.
	Sister Kimball was ambitious in good
works and especially anxious to contribute
towards the Temple which was to be erect-
ed in that city, and her zeal in this respect
was one of the factors in bringing about the
organization of the Relief Society, which
has since become such a large and flourish-
ing institution. She was present at its or-
ganization in the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo
on the 17th day of March, 1842, and in fact
the preliminary meeting was held in Sister
Kimball's own house. There are few wo-
men living who were members of the first
organization and only one, Bathsheba W.
Smith, known to the writer, who was pres-
ent when the organization was effected.
Zina D. H. Young and M. Isabella Horne
were afterwards members, and are the only
ones we can recall that are now living.
	Sister Kimball came with her husband
and family to the valley in 1850 and settled
in this city, where her residence has been
ever since. When the Relief Society was
organized in Utah Sister Kimball was chos-
en to preside in her own ward, the Fifteenth,
this was on the 9th of February, 1857, and
she has been from that time one of the most
able presidents and indefatigable workers in
the cause throughout all Zion. Perhaps
there was no more judicious economizer of
means, yet withal liberal in bestowing to
the needy and unfortunate, than she has
been. Her own ward can testify to her
good works, her unbounded charity and
motherly care of the sick and afflicted, bet-
ter than we who knew her in a wider sense.
Everywhere her works testify of her, and
the younger generation should not pass by
such notable examples as her life affords.
Her name and life should be perpetuated in
the memory of every young man and wo-
man in Zion.

[Column 3]
	Notwithstanding the many public duties
Sister Kimball performed and the positions
she filled her home was never neglected;
she was a model housekeeper and knew the
art of making home attractive; yet there
was no stronger-minded woman in all
Israel than Sister Kimball. She has main-
tained the principle of equality of the sexes
and contended for it with all the advantages
pertaining thereto. She did not believe in
half measures. She stood solidly for the
lar[-]est freedom of opinion and of the press,
without waiting to see what other people
thought. As a public speaker she was con-
cise and to the point, never made long
speeches, but said what she felt forcibly
and always with effect. It was invariably
something to remember. She was specially
gifted in conversation, was well read, had
traveled much and met many celebrated
people; was at one time quite familiar in
Washington society.
	Sister Kimball taught school in this city
for several years, and under very trying 
circumstances, and while thus engaged in
teaching she became even more than ever
convinced of the need of changed conditions
for women engaged in work that came in
competition with men, and determined to
push the matter to the utmost. And she
knew there was no other method that could
be so effectual as the elective franchise.
	She was an ardent admirer and champion
of Susan B. Anthony and since her active
work as president of the Utah Suffrage
Association, her name has been on the Roll
of Honor of the National American Suffrage
Association as Honorary vice-president. 
Sister Kimball was a member of the Utah
Constitutional Convention of 1882, and was 
for some years a member of the Territorial
Committee of the People’s Party. It is im- 
possible to enumerate all this remarkable
woman has done, but suffice it to say she
has been one of the foremost in all pro-
gressive work of elevating, uplifting and
advancing society and humanity.
	After the Relief Society had been organ-
ized throughout Zion in Stakes and branches
a central organization was effected and Sarah
M. Kimball was chosen by Sister Eliza R.
Snow, the president, as secretary, June 19,
1880. October 10, 1892, the society was
incorporated and she was elected one of the
vice presidents, which position she occupied
at the time of her death. Her loss will be
deeply felt by all her co-workers, she was
wise in counsel, and her words were al-
ways fraught with meaning; her judgment
on all subjects was excellent, and she never
failed to give a word in due season and to
sound the rising note.
	We shall miss her in all our assemblies,
her presence was always inspiring if she 
was not able to say but a few words. At
our last General Conference of the Relief
Society in the Assembly Hall, October 5, 
she was not present being afraid of the ex-
posure, but she had been with us in the
meeting of the Board of Directors in the
“Exponent” office the day previous and
spoke impressively upon the subjects under
consideration. She also attended the officers'
meeting in the lecture hall of the Latter-
day Saints Business College on Saturday,
October 8, and spoke twice, a most unusual
thing for her. But we shall hear her voice
no more among us, she has passed on to
a higher life for which she was eminently
fitted, to join the innumerable company of
Saints who had preceded her, her husband,
father, mother and many relatives, whom


she officiated for in the Temples of Zion.
	Sister Kimball left three sons and one
daughter, her sons all have families but
they were just as tenderly attached to their
mother. There are quite a number of grand-
children.
	The relatives and friends of Sister Kim-
ball gathered about nine on Sunday morn-
ing at her residence to take a last look, as
she lay peacefully sleeping in her beautiful
white robes within the white casket and a
holy calm upon her face as if in vision.
When the farewells were over the casket
covered with loving mementoes of floral
offerings was borne to the chapel, followed
by the family and friends and the Relief
Society of which she was the honored and
beloved president. The Fifteenth ward
hall where the funeral services were con-
ducted was exquisitely draped in white and
flowers, and potted plants were artistically
arranged, (her express wish was that there
should be no black.) Bishop John Morgan
presided at the funeral services, the musical
exercises were by the ward choir, which in-
cludes Sister Maggie Hull, one of the
sweetest singers in all Israel.
	The speakers were first Sister Zina D.
H. Young, who had known Sister Kimball
since the days of Kirtland; she was much
affected while speaking, but paid an elo-
quent tribute of love and tenderness to her
departed friend and companion.
	Bishop R. T. Burton spoke of her many
virtues and of her magnificent capabilities,
her motherly attention to all who needed
assistance, whether of the household of faith
or not, and of the great blessing she had
been to all in the ward.
	Apostle H. J. Grant and President An-
gus M. Cannon each spoke in glowing
terms of praise of her lifelong labors. Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne made the closing
speech, which was a loving tribute to her
memory and eulogistic of her long life
and work among the Saints. Apostle John
Henry Smith offered the benediction.
	A long train of carriages followed the re-
mains to the cemetery, where the body was
deposited beside her mother. Sister Lydia
D. Granger, her husband, Elder Hiram
Kimball, having been buried at sea on his
way as a missionary to the Sandwich Is-
lands, more than thirty years ago. Coun-
selor Rodney Badger dedicated the grave,
and the last sad rites were over when the
coffin was covered with the fresh earth and
also profusely with beautiful flowers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"MUSINGS AND MEMORIES."

	“Musings and Memories” is a volume of
poems entirely of home production, and is
very suitable as a gift for the holidays. The
book is sufficiently elegant in appearance for
any drawing room or library table. It con-
tains three hundred pages and a steel en-
graving of the author. It is for sale at the
office of the “Woman’s Exponent ” Tem-
pleton Builiding, opposite Deseret News
office. Cloth binding, $1.25; dainty cover,
$1.50; morocco, $2.00. Those living out-
side Salt Lake City who might wish to pur-
chase the book should address,
		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
	Templeton Building,
		Salt Lake City, Utah.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The "Exponent" acknowledges the gift of
a picture group of beautiful women, the


General Board of the Primary Associations
of Zion. Not only were we delighted with
the gift in itself, but knowing each one
personally and the individual grace of soul
that shines out from the eyes, it is doubly
dear, and as we gaze and admire we recall
the many lovely traits in each one’s char-
acter, and incidents in each one’s life that
are admirable. The likeness, too, is very
good and the picture altogether does credit
to the association. They are certainly faces
that denote intelligence and intense spiritual
power. Every Stake board in Zion who
can afford one should purchase one of them
to hang where the children can become ac-
quainted and familiar with the founders of
the Primary work.
	Among the handsome displays for Christ-
mas the new book store of George Q. Can-
non Sons and Company has certainly one of
the very finest, and perhaps equal in quality
of goods in their line to any establishment
in the city, if it does not excel. The goods
are all in style and the prices are on an
average with the quality. In fact they do
keep an excellent line of stationery and
materials in that line. This year they have
fancy china ware, rare vases and such orna-
ments as are suitable for Xmas gifts and a
fine assortment of pictures, principally
medallion, subjects new in style. The “Ex-
ponent’’ can safely recommend their goods
and also the attention one receives in being
served. The new store itself is very
attractive and fitted up in excellent taste,
and everything seems in keeping within
and without.


[Column 1]
		GENERAL CONFERENCE.

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Afternoon session, President Zina D. H.
Young presiding, Prof. C. J. Thomas lead-
ing the singing by the Temple choir.
Meeting opened with “Now let us rejoice.”
Prayer by Elder C. J. Thomas. Singing
“Oh Golden Day,” very beautifully rend-
ered by Maggie C. Hull and members of
the Temple choir.
	President Artemissia Lugmidler reported
Kanab Stake, referred to the lack of mem-
bers attending meetings and said that in
listening to other reports she found it to be
a general complaint. In regard to laying
up wheat said theirs was not a grain pro-
ducing locality, but she had urged the sis-
ters inasmuch as there was an appearance
of a bountiful harvest this year to lay up
what wheat they could; felt although they
were a small Stake they were diligent and
proving themselves faithful over a few
things.
	President Ann C. Woodbury of the St.
George Stake, told the long distance they
had to travel by team to visit the branches
of the society in their Stake, some places
were four hundred miles away and it
was quite an arduous undertaking to go all
the way around. “We are just getting a
good start in the silk industry. We were
to have had timber for a mill and the boys
were going to start off with their teams to
haul it when we received word the mill
was burned. Still we have every prospect
of success this year, all have plenty to do.
Our children have not applied themselves
to industrial pursuits in the past as they
should, we must insist upon industrious
habits in our children and the silk industry
is one pursuit that will be helpful in this
respect, and there is a good prospect of suc-
cess.”

[Column 2]
	Counselor C. C. Bartlett reported Uintah
Stake, they have a good wheat country,
five branches of the society have each a
good granary and the wheat stored is of a
good quality and in good condition. They
hold conferences twice a year, they try to
impress upon their children that they must
make themselves useful in life. “It is three
years since we were visited in our Stake,
although last year we had Sister Gates, who
came in the interest of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	President Annie R. Duke of Wasatch
Stake said she had only been elected a short
time, their former president, Sister Emma
Brown, having passed away she had been
called to the position of president and hoped
to fill the place with credit, but felt she
knew very little as yet, but would try to do
all in her power. She had visited around
the Stake since her appointment.
	Cassia Stake was reported by Sister Rol-
lins; the president was a very capable wo-
man. In traveling around they had to go
over a mountain to get to the other side
where one part of the sisters lived. Their
president had never yet missed attending
one conference since they were organized.
They were trying to do their part well.
	President Emma J. Bennett said, “We
make our visit among the sisters a pleasure
trip. We have twenty branches, we travel
with the authorities of the Stake and we al-
ways have a good time, our sisters are dili-
gent and united as well as energetic. We
want to do our share and assist the General
Society, we have been talking of a Stake
granary.”
	Star Valley was reported by Sister Sarah
Ann Burton. “We have a good band of
sisters, we do not have the best of grain,
but we have a mill now, which is a great
blessing to the people. We are just begin-
ning in our Stake to save grain, we have
many early frosts but we intend to perse-
vere and do our part in whatever is under-
taken by the General Society. We are
blest in having an abundance of strawber-
ries and small fruits. We have nine wards,
it takes three days to visit those fartherest
off.
	Sister Maggie Hull sang “Glory to God
on High,” the Temple choir joining.
	President Julia P. Lindsay of Bear Lake
Stake made an excellent report of the work
done in the society in that locality, and the
good spirit prevailing in their midst. She
felt the importance of the organization and
the great blessing it had been to the wo-
men of Zion, earnestly urged the sisters to
train their sons and daughters in the ways
of the Lord and exhorted all to good works.
	President Elizabeth Fox of Oneida Stake
was very much pleased with the instruction
given by the leading sisters, spoke par-
ticularly of their efforts in storing grain, in
Franklin they had over a thousand bushels
and a small granary but had concluded it
was best to put their wheat into the grist
mill and the mill pays them interest on the
grain. Sister Fox spoke of the change
made in their Stake so that it had not so
many branches, some wards having been
taken into the new Stake recently organized.
She also urged the sisters to take the “Ex-
ponent’’ and to read it, expressed her own
appreciation of its helpfulness; thought it
wrong not to support our own paper.
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake
referred to the good singing and realized
how much it added to the spirit of the
meeting. In their Stake they always had
good singing and interspersed it between
the speeches at their conferences. Referred


with sympathetic feeling to the death of
President Paxman, he had truly been a
father as well as a leader to them all in
Juab Stake. Sister Pitchforth spoke in a
very interesting manner of the good work
of the society, felt proud of their labors, re-
joiced in the Gospel and felt to press on- 
ward.
	Sister Maria Crosby spoke for Sevier
Stake, thought all were trying to do what
they knew to be right and ministering to
the needy. They had a good, energetic,
capable president.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the mission given her by President Young
to establish silk culture, and entreated the
sisters to put out mulberry trees and raise
cocoons. She thought we were too indiffer-
ent about these things and did not half con-
sider what the Lord had placed on the
daughters of Zion. Realized the brethren
carried heavy loads and so did the sisters.
Sister Zina remembered how Brother Joseph
looked when he plead with the sisters to be
faithful to the society and not commit the
sin of ingratitude, thought his words were
sweeter than honey in the honey comb.
“Do teach the daughters of Zion to do what
is right, to have confidence in their fathers,
and teach them how to get strength in the
hour of trial, and to draw near to the Lord,
it is their only safety.”
	Brother Huff of St. George, read an arti
cle on silk which he had prepared for publi-
cation, after which President Young spoke
upon silk again, her great desire to see it
established and for young women to take
hold of it, and closed her remarks by say-
ing she was thoroughly committed to the
silk industry.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of the
young women, how glad she was to see
some in the conference, to hear Wasatch
reported by Sister Annie Duke who said
she only knew about the Young Ladies
Association when she was called to preside
over the Relief Society of the Stake. She
felt that young mothers needed just the in-
struction they could get in the Relief Soci-
ety, knew it would be good for them to
come and hear the experienced mothers
like Sister Zin[-] and such women as they
had heard today. She rejoiced in days
gone by when she could listen to women
who were wiser and loved to hear them in
their meetings, Sister Eliza and Mother
Whitney and those who were older, there
should be younger women in the society,
we need their help and they need us. Sis
ter Richards spoke of the house for confer-
ences and use of the General Society. Said
if a little was given in from all the settle-
ments it would soon accumulate, we could
have a place and have it dedicated, and it
was just what was needed.
	President M. I Horne spoke about the-
nursing class taught by Dr. Roberts free of
expense, and said that there was still op-
portunity for other students; spoke of the
growth of the society, new wards had been
organized, we had need of a three days
meeting, it would not be too long for all to
have an opportunity to report.
	Singing “Lord dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing.” Conference adjourned until April
1899. Dismissed with prayer by President
Susan Grant.
				E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


No one who is not a good listener can
possibly become a good conversationalist.


IN MEMORIAM.

EDNA SPRAGUE.
	Another of our dear sisters has been called to
leave us, Sister Edna Sprague of this place,
(Junction.) She died Oct. 13, 1898, after an ill-
ness of two weeks.
	Sister Edna was born in the 15th ward, Salt
Lake City, June 2, 1871. Her parents were David
and Esther La Baron. Her mother dying when
she was about four years old Edna came to live
with an older sister, Sister Ella Merrill, who is
the president of our Relief Society, and whose
husband, Brother John Merrill, is our Bishop. 
	Under the loving care of Brother and Sister
Merrill she grew to womanhood, and on Sep. 17,
1891, was married to Edwin E. Sprague. She
leaves four children, two boys and two girls, the
youngest a baby two weeks old.
	While we miss the dear sister who has “gone
before” and sympathize with those who are be-
reft, yet we can but bow in humble, silent sub-
mission to our Father’s decree, and pray for His
grace to strengthen us in all we are called to pass
through.
					ALICE HAYES.
Junction, Nov. 17, 1898.
ELIZABETH EDMONDS GAILEY.
	It is with sorrow we record the death of anoth-
er faithful sister, Mrs. Elizabeth Edmonds Gailey.
She was born July 24, 1854, at Lowstaff, Suffolk
Co., England.
	She was afflicted for a long time with consump-
tion. Her whole life was spent in the work of
God. Before her marriage much of her time was
taken up with the Y. L. M. I. A. in Salt Lake
City. She was a member of the ward choir and
a very useful member in the Relief Society.
	She was married to John Gailey May 21, 1886,
and since that time has been a teacher in the
Kaysville Relief Society and faithfully performed
that duty whenever her health would permit, al-
ways being cheerfnl and happy.
	She leaves a husband and three living children
to mourn her loss. It was hard for her to part
with her loved ones, she clung to life to the very
last. She has gone to rest until resurrection shall
unite them no more to part. ’Tis hard to part
with those we love, but parting comes to all.
CELIA HALL RAYMOND.
	Celia Hall Raymond died at her home October
22, 1898, of dropsy after an illness of nearly three
months.
	Celia, only daughter of Bradley and Elizabeth
Hall, was born at Liberty, Sullivan Co, New
York, April 20, 1825, and was reared in a quiet
home in a country place by a kind and gentle
mother, having lost her father at an early age.
	She was married to Grandison Raymond of the
same place, August 12, 1849. Shortly thereafter
she and her husband were influenced to go West
to investigate the principles of the Gospel. While
at St. Louis they became satisfied of the truth
and were baptized January, 1850. In the spring
that year they moved to Council Bluffs, Iowa, and
a year f[-]om that time went back to their old
home on a visit to settle up their affairs prepara-
tory to gathering with the Saints.
	In the summer of 1852, they removed to Salt
Lake valley with their two small children, the
youngest being but ten days old when the journey
was commenced. They landed in Salt Lake City
and after remaining here for some time moved to
Bountiful where they made their permanent
home. She was the mother of ten children,
seven of whom survive her.
	Sister Raymond was a faithful worker in the
Relief Society as a teacher, in which capacity she
labored for many years. She was most generous
in giving to the poor in a private as well as a pub-
lic way, and in her home circle her kind, forgiving
and self-denying character cannot be too highly
praised
	Funeral services were held on Monday at 1
o’clock in the meeting house. The speakers
were Brothers John Ellison, William [-]eezl[-]y,
Ebenezer Williams T. F. Rouche, John R.
Barnes and John Thornley.
					SARAH B LAYTON


OBITUARY.

		CAROLINE HARRIS POULTON.

	Died at her residence on Sunday, November 6,
1898, Caroline Harris Poulton,wife of James Poul-
ton, after a severe a d lingering illness, which
she bore with patience and fortitude. Deceased


was born at Straford on Avon, February 4, 1829.
	She received the Gospel in early childhood,
being baptized without the knowledge of her
father, her mother being a faithful Latter-day 
Saint She was married to Elder James Poulton
October 14, 1852. She with her husband set sail
on the vessel Amazon for Salt Lake City, June 4,
1863. They crossed the plains with ox teams and
arrived in Salt Lake City, October 4, of the same
year. They have resided in the 6th ward from
that time, her husband being the leader of that
choir since the fall of 1864, and Sister Poulton
being an active singer for many years in the same.
	She was a faithful worker in the Relief Society,
being a teacher which labor she performed for 
many years, as long as her health would permit.
She held this position unti the day of her depart-
ure from this life. She was also one of the
wheat committee.
	She ever proved a faithful wife and loving
mother. She was blessed with twelve children,
seven sons a[-]d five daughters, four of whom have
passed away She leaves six sons and two
daughters and thirty-four living grandchildren to
mourn her loss. One of her sons has recently re-
turned from filling a fai[-]hful mission.
	Her life was an eventful one, she enduring all
the hardships incident to early days. Her health
had been failing for some time. After undergo-
ing an operation twelve months ago she seemed
to rally, but three months previous to her demise
she was taken with another severe attack, but her
faith was strong in the Lor[-] and His ordinances, 
she being desirous of receiving with her husband
all the blessings that can be obtained in the
House of the Lord. The brethren, and the sis-
ters of the Relief Society rallied around her and
exercised such faith and unremitting kindness,
and through t[-]e administration of the Gospel she
was once more restored, the physicians having
given her up. [-]hrough the mercy of the Lord
she was able to go to the Salt Lake Temple and
there with [-]er husband received all the blessings
that can be obtained in the house of the Lord.
Her work being completed it pleased the Lord to
call her home, and she passed peacefully away.
	The funeral services were held in the 6th ward
assem[-]l  hall on the 8th inst. Many timely re-
marks were made by President Joseph E. Taylor,
Bishop James C. Watson, Brother Green and
others The coffin was beautifully covered with
flowers from loving friends,and to those who were
there it seemed that Sister Poulton was not dead 
but sleeping.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That as our heavenly Father in His
wisdom has seen fit to call home our sister to a
better life, w  the officers and members of the 6th
ward Relief Society express our sincere sympathy
to the bereaved husband and family in their loss,
feeling, also, that they have been greatly blessed
with her wise and faithfu[-] counsel and example. 
Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed up- 
on our society records, also a copy sent to the
“Woman’s Exponent” for publication
				ISABELLA WEST, Pres.
				ELIZABETH W.CONDIE,Sec.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 

	Minutes of Oct. 14, 1898, Counselor E.
J. Stevenson presiding. Singing “Come
hither all ye weary souls.” Prayer by Sis-
ter J. C. Howe. Singing “Glorious things
are sung of Zion.” Minutes read and ap-
proved.
	Sister Stevenson made opening remarks,
exhorted the sisters not to follow the fash-
ions of the world and gave good counsel.
	Sisters H. M. Wright, Ellen Barton and
another sister, also Sister Black, each bore 
good testimonies of the truth and regarding
experiences in their own lives.
	Sister Mary A Freeze spoke of the good
instruction she had received from Sister
Eliza, Sister Zina and others. Sister Eliza
had told the sisters not to pray to the Lord
to have their trials removed, but ask Him
to give them faith to live above them.
	Sister Brixen had just returned from a
trip to the old country, her native land. 
When she was away she thought of her sis-
ters here at home in Zion. She visited two


[Column 1]
branches of the Relief Society over there
and told them of our meetings and the
unity among the women here. Many of
them were anxious to emigrate. Sister
Brixen felt these meetings had prepared her
to understand the Gospel that she might be
able to instruct her dear sisters in foreign
lands, she thought every sister should be
interested in Relief Society work.
	President Elmina S. Taylor felt thankful
for our aged sisters, and that she had been
privileged to associate with them. Spoke
of the trials she passed through because of
the opposition of her family in joining the
Church, but there was nothing on earth to
tempt her to deny her religion, wondered
how many would fall by the wayside, she
could see that many were departing from
the truth but prayed that all present would
be preserved faithful.
	Sister M. A. Hardy expressed her grati-
tude, was glad she remained faithful, had a
strong testimony to bear.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde had a testimony of
the work of God, had always been associated
with Sister Young and other good and
noble sisters, it had been a trial to her to
assist in the work of the society, but she
was thankful she had accepted the position
she now held and knew it had benefited her.
	Sister M. O. Brown thought it was easier
for some to remain faithful than others.
The Gospel principles seemed familiar
when she first heard them, felt it was beau-
tiful, every family ought to be interested.
	Another sister gave her experience and
related incidents of a visit to relatives in
Canada.
	Counselor Stevenson said the Lord had
opened the way and she had got some
genealogy of her family. Gave good ad-
vice to all present, exhorting them to be
faithful.
	Singing, Doxology. Adjourned for two
weeks. Benediction by Sister Alder.

	Minutes of Oct. 29, 1898, President M.
I. Horne presiding. Singing “O, say what
is truth.” Prayer by Counselor Webb.
Singing “Who are these arrayed in white?”
	The president alluded to the organization
that led to these meetings and believed
President Young was inspired of the Lord,
realized that He preserved His children and
those who trusted in Him from the world
and its turmoil. We must acknowledge
His hand in all things and seek for wisdom,
knowledge and discernment. These are
the days of proving and days of temptation.
Let us set an example worthy of imitation,
be firm, steadfast and watchful that Satan
may not deceive us. Those around us can-
not take the spirit of God from us if we are
in possession of it by obedience. Now that
winter is coming she wanted the presidents
to look after the poor and see what they
need.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke upon the
necessity of being true and faithful, and to
teach our children to be honest and virtu-
ous so they can resist temptation. Sister
Smith had selected an article to read in the
meeting, Sister Hyde read it, it was a de-
scription of the deplorable condition of the
morals of the world, and how incompetent
religious denominations were to cope with
the existing evils. A prophecy was next
read of the Prophet Joseph Smith’s in re-
gard to war.
	Counselor Webb said, “We cannot be too
humble and charitable, we must set a good
example and be careful of little things,
visit and comfort the sick and exercise faith

[Column 2]
and it will be a blessing to ourselves and
others to whom we minister.”
	Sisters Rawlins, Nuttall and Morris each
bore excellent testimonies and made excel-
lent remarks on interesting subjects.
	Counselor Stevenson said it is one of the
commandments given to the Saints to meet
together often, and we should teach our
children the principles of the Gospel and
prepare them for life; also spoke urgently
of the work in the Temple, which was a
blessing to the living and the dead.
	Sisters Leaker and Wright, Nellie Taylor
and Julia Woolley spoke of the goodness of
God and the blessings of the Gospel and
testimony of the truth, and President Horne
read a letter from Brother Bassett about
teaching singing to the Relief Society and
asked for the vote of those who would join
a class in singing; but the sisters did not
feel they could at present. She also wished
some of the sisters to visit Dr. Robert’s
nursing class.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks by
singing “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.” Benediction by Sister L. D. Alder.
		LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.

	Minutes of Nov. 12, 1898, Counselor
Stevenson presiding in the absence of Presi-
dent Horne. Singing “Lord we come be-
fore Thee now. ” Prayer by Sister Clara
Cannon. Singing “O, ye mountains high.”
	Sister Cannon said she wished each Re-
lief Society to give in a sentiment, they
were to be recorded in a book and given to
Sister Horne for a birthday present and
that a meeting would be held in the Assem-
bly hall next Saturday in honor of her
birthday.
	Minutes read and approved. Counselor
Stevenson said she thought we were blest
beyond those of our sisters who are living
in our surrounding cities and towns, we
were privileged to hear the apostles and
people of God almost every time we went
to meeting.
	President Horne arrive. Sister Jane
James find another sister bore faithful testi-
monies. 
	Sister Zina H. Bull sent in her resigna-
tion, stating that it was impossible for her
to continue her labors. A vote of thanks
was tendered her and Sister Julia S. Wool-
ley was sustained as secretary to fill the
place made vacant by her resignation
	Sister Horne said she felt that this peo-
ple were her people, and where they go she
wanted to go. She knew Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God, the greatest that ever lived
except Jesus Christ. Said there were so
many false spirits abroad that each one
must have a testimony in her own heart to
resist their power, we must watch that we
be not led astray. Said our Stake secretary
of the Relief Society had resigned and Sis-
ter Augusta W. Grant had been selected to
take her place. She was unanimously sus-
tained in that office.
	Sister Julia Howe said we had received
the priesthood in connection with our hus-
bands and had had the Holy Ghost confer-
red upon us. She thought economy should
be a part of our religion and use what
God blesses us with for building up the
kingdom of God. Exhorted all to sustain
each other, redeem our dead and increase in
faith, and not do as those who are rich and
grow faithless. Let us pray for each other,
especially those who are placed in responsi-
ble positions.
	Sister Morris spoke beautifully to Sister
Jane James. Sister Georgie Young was

[Column 3]
present to announce an entertainment to be
given in the Assembly Hall on Friday night
the 18th for the benefit of the Kindergarten.
	Several other sisters bore strong testi-
monies of the truth of the Gospel and the
goodness of God.
	Sister Derrick related instances of the
fulfillment of prophecy in her behalf. Sis-
ter Paul said she had been blessed in the
Temple and had many promises fulfilled.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said the trials of
life are hard to pass through but God will
bear us up. Several other sisters bore testi-
monies of God’s goodness to them and the
power that had been made manifest in heal-
ing them, as well as giving them spiritual
blessings. 
	President Horne said she would advise
the sisters to all rise on their feet and testi-
fy of God, said Jesus Christ said He would
testify to our Heavenly Father of those who
would testify of Him before man. Said she
always had attended her meetings for she 
needed spiritual food.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
Benediction by Counselor Webb.
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


It is quite possible to go through an end-
less variety of experiences, to suffer deeply
and enjoy keenly, to see all the countries of
the world, to hear what great men have to
say and to live to a good old age with a
past full of stirring occurrences, and yet
have very little to add to the wisdom, or
knowledge, or interest of mankind. It is
not a man’s actual experience, but that
which he has gained from it that determines
its value to himself and, through him, to 
society.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1899.		NO 15.


CONTENTS:
	Miss Anthony’s Letter. An Old Old Love
Story—E. B W. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting
—Julia S. Woolley, R. S. Reports—Salt Lake
Stake—Emery Stake—Sanpete Stake. Relief
Society In Omaha—J. L. Hatch.
	EDITORIAL:—A New Years’ Greeting. An
Appeal. Dr. Roberts’ Nursing Class. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—A Voyage of Life—E. B. W.


A VOYAGE OF LIFE.

Once on a time in the days that are olden,
	 “The dear, dead days of the beautiful past,”
When our hearts were light, and our visions
		golden
	Then love seem’d to fill the universe vast.

We sent our ships forth over perilous seas,
	With their precious freight bound for havens
		fair,
And the sails unfurl’d in the tremulous breeze,
	Signals of triumph, to do, and to dare.

Many proud vessels came back heavy laden,
	With cargo of precious jewels full store;
And only a few were with storms o’er take,
	And stranded, or lost on a dang’rous shore.

The pilots were cautious, the vessels built strong
	Storms might rage fierce in midst of t[-]e ocean;
Yet bravely they sailed, tho’ the voyage was long;
	Their trust was in God with faith and devotion

But clouds have since dark’ned the sky that was
		clear,
	And many new dangers threaten the way,
The mariner sailing has much more to fear,
	For treach’rous signals, tempt vessels astray

Yes, the ocean of life has chang’d in its cour[-]e,
	No longer may youth go sailing secure,
They’re met by an enemy, oft with such force
	Their bark must ride fea[-]lessly if they endure!

More beacon lights warn them of drifting ashore,
	More signals, more trumpets sound the alarm
Yet wrecks of life’s voy’gers increase more and
		more,
	How shall we save them from coming to harm?

Can we turn back the tide that’s set in so strong.
	Wrecking the vessels just put out to sea?
O have we been guiltless of error and wrong?
	How shall we answer in worlds yet to be?

O, let us by Faith light a beacon so bright,
	That its rays may shine forth from shore to
		shore,

And the wand’rers bark in a perilous night,
	May find its way safe, tho’ the wild waves roar.

Let Love be the Shibboleth now evermore,
	“Pass the word down the line, ’afar off and near
Truth be our armor, till Life’s voyage is o’er;
	And white wings of Peace, our vessel shall
		steer.
							E. B. W.


Women are to the fore in educational
matters in Colorado. Out of the fifty-nine
counties in the state, twenty seven have
women superintendents of schools and
every school board has one or two women
members.


Snow-flakes are falling, so softly so white,
I fancy they’re whispering to my heart to-night;
So pure and so sweet through the darkness of
	even,
They fall at my feet [-]ike a message from heaven.
I fancy them letters the angels have thrown
From the windows of heaven and watched them
	come down.
And then as they spread their pure folds o’er the
	sod,
They seem like a letter—a message from God.
Put over its surface in sparkles of gold,
His unfailing promise to mortals is told.
That under the fold of this soft, sunny glean
He guards the life-buds of the beautiful Spring.


MISS ANTHONY’S LETTER.

My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	I have before me your good letters of
Nov. 2nd and 14th, also several others from
women in Utah, all relative to the election
of Mr Roberts. The deed is done—the
women of Utah, as well as the men, voted
their party ticket regardless of the right
action of its Congressional nominee on the
woman suffrage question. Congress will
not reject him because of his disloyalty
to woman’s rights, and it is doubtful if it
will on account of his family relations;
but we shall see what we shall see!!
	If his influence in Washington is against
woman suffrage you must expose him right
along, just hold him to woman suffrage.
	Governor Wells’ word was splendid, give
him my kind regards, and also to each and
all of the Wells family. They are made of
good sterling stuff, and that is the kind of
people this nation most needs. The point
of Mrs. A’s letter was that the Utah Suf-
frage Association ought to publish an earn-
est protest against Mr. Roberts; that you
surely can do. Mrs. S. tells of securing an
expression from Mr. Roberts that he would
not oppose suffrage. Both seem very earn-
est for the honor of the women of the State.
I do hope all women, Mormon or Gentile,
will banish sectarianism or partisanshipism,
and talk and work and vote only for good
officials, regardless of church or party!
There are good and bad men and women in
all churches and all parties, and it is
only the good that should be selected for
official positions.
	Your women must learn from this elec-
tion the vital importance of their presence
in the very first nominations, for after the
nominations are made it is so very difficult
to persuade voters to stand there for any
save their own party nominees. But it will
take time to teach women. Why men have
not learned the lesson with a hundred and
more years of practice, then let us be patient
with women’s mistakes at the first and
second time of voting. What you need in
Salt Lake is a local council of all the differ-
ent societies and clubs; and then for the
officers of the council to make the move for
or against public measures or men, thus
acting for all the women of the city, Mor-
mon or Gentile, Republican or Democratic,
silver or gold—instead of as now, one
<p>arty protesting and all the others silent.


That morning session in Omaha when
the Local Council reported their work was
very impressive to me, and I am working
to get our Rochester women’s clubs and
societies to organize into a local council.
We cannot help suffrage in so speedy a
manner. We want women on the school
board, women on the board of city physi-
cians, etc., etc. For any one of our clubs
to move for the result would amount to
nothing, but for all of your associations
combined in a local association to make the
move would effect the thing desired. Cer-
tainly with you women who hold the ballot
in your hands!! So to combine the forces
of your women into one voice, one action,
is your great need. But it should be stated
by a call for a meeting signed by the presi-
dents of all of the most popular clubs.
Your suffrage society, like ours, should be
one of these, but not the first or leading
one. Here we have an Ethical club of
four or five hundred women, and I shall try
and get its president to lead off for the
council.
	Do you know I really believe if the suf-
frage clubs would quietly get behind the
scenes and work for such local councils we
would do an immense educational work. I
am going to try what it will do in Roches-
ter, that is sure. * * *
Lovingly and loyally yours,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
Dec. 5, 1898


AN OLD, OLD STORY.

	This story has been told but not written,
of that I feel tolerably certain; and as I
could not from experience tell such a fine
story myself, I can only write one told to
me by a school friend a very long time ago.
	She was a famous little tory and all the
rest of us were pure, blue-blood Yankees,
but she told us such wonderful tales that
we looked upon her as a veritable fairy.
We were quite unwilling then to think
these things were all true, and yet since
those days I have many a time and oft
heard stories far more extravagant, and can
easily believe now that Pamela Kingsley
told the truth as she had heard it from her
governess about her maiden Aunt Dilli-
way with whom she lived. She was her
great aunt, the sister of her grandfather
Dilliway, who was a “royalist to the back-
bone,” Pamela told us. And really she
used to sort of queen it over us, in a way,
because she knew all about Xmas and we
barely knew the name. Aunt Dilliway lived
in Boston and her niece, Miss Pamela
Kingsley was sent up in the country to get
fresh air, new milk and the scent of wild
flowers and new-mown hay. That was
how we come to know her, and as we
adored Boston girls we all fell in love with
her before we knew she was a tory.
	Notwithstanding Pamela was from
Boston she didn’t know much more about
Yankees than we did about tories, she had
never been at school before but had a
governess at home, and as her great aunt
Dilliway was not equal to managing a
French governess and an obstinate little


[Column 1]
girl, who was also very delicate; she made
up her mind to send her into the country
for a while to her great uncle on her fath-
er’s side, Judge Kingsley. His wife had
no sympathy with girls who always wore
white muslin, laces and ruffles, and so sent
her to the school with the country girls, and
Pamela was not in the least punished. She
enjoyed it immensely, she knew she was
the best dressed girl in the school and her
city ways were very taking, but most of all
she was fond of telling what she knew in a
fantastic sort of fashion that was ever so
much better than any story book we had
ever read. One Saturday when we were
out in the woods for a ramble and had tired
ourselves climbing, the most romantic girl
in the crowd turned to Pamela and said,
“Do tell us about your Aunt Dilliway when
she was a little girl; you say she was a per-
fect beauty and a great belle in her day.”
	“Well, girls, Aunt Dilliway is so proud
that if she saw me here on the rocks spin-
ning yarns to you girls, she would have me
sent home by the first coach for Boston.
She’s old and grey now but she wears a wig
and paints her cheeks, and there’s a lovely
painting of her upstairs, and she’s even
been written about in books in London
when she was young and beautiful, and she
broke two or three men’s hearts, and then
she got her own broken.”
	“Served her right!” said two or three all
in a breath.”
	“No it didn’t,” said Pamela, “If you
knew what she suffered.”
	“How did you find out about her love
affairs?” inquired the one who had asked
for the story, and who in fact was all her
life getting people to tell her things she
meant some day to put into books.
	“Girls every one of you must promise
never to tell, for Aunt Kingsley wants a pre-
text to send me home, I know it, and if she
could find out about the things I’ve told
you girls, she would bundle me off in
double quick time.”
	Of course we all promised and then we
asked “How about the young men? tell us
about them.”
	“They all married afterwards all but one,
and he got killed, and Aunt Dilliway wears
the ring he gave her—now he’s dead, and
she has her white satin wedding dress all
trimmed with rich lace, hid away in a
cedar chest, and a long lace veil all em-
broidered in a nunnery.”
	“Oh, a nunnery! tell us about the nuns,
if there is anything mysterious we want to
find it out,” said half a dozen at once.
	The whole bevy of girls were wild to
hear about the nuns, but Pamela answered,
“My aunt didn’t know about the nuns, she
isn’t a Catholic, she’s High Church Episco-
pal, and sits every Sunday in King’s chapel
in a great, high pew, and makes me sit by
her, and I daren’t wink but I nearly fall,
asleep, and then she nudges me with her
great feather fan and whispers ‘Miss Pame-
la sit up.” ’
	“Who were your Aunt Dilliway’s beaux,
were they noblemen?”
	“They were gentlemen, one was very
courtly and handsome and brave and a fine
singer, and my aunt played the harp—the
very same one she has now up in the corner
of her boudoir covered with real tapestry.
I asked her about it one day and she said it
was an heirloom.”
	“How did you find out about all these
fine gentlemen and your great aunt’s love
stories, you say she never talks to you?”
	“Why from Belmont, the governess, you

[Column 2]
know; that’s why she was sent home to
France, and I was packed off up here to
cure me of prying into family secrets; my
aunt says she has ruined me every way,
gave me sweetmeats and all sorts of for-
bidden things, and told me the love stories
of the Dilliway family for generations back,
all of which she got hold of herself by spy-
ing, and getting into old letters in the cab-
net, the Dilliway rosewood cabinet, hun-
dreds of years old made in Switzerland.”
	“Miss Pamela tell us what about the let-
ters we don’t care for the cabinet that hid
them,” said Julia, the most curious girl in
the crowd. “What a wonderful part letters
have played in the lives of men and women
ever since the days of Jeremiah the prophet.
Letters do play the mischief, I shall never
write any myself.”
	“You’ll be the first one to do it undoubt-
edly; but Julia, you must have taken to
reading the Bible lately to know so much
about Jeremiah, but remember in those
days everything was written on parchment
and in rolls, and they were not letters car-
ried by post,” broke in Lottie Brooks.
	“No, but they made a lot of trouble, all
the same, and dreadful things came to pass
that had been written about and then hid-
den away.”
	“Girls let’s not go back to Jeremiah, its
quite enough to go back to Pamela’s Aunt
Dilliway, and if we linger much longer
we’ll have to go home without the love
story, and we all dearly love that kind of a
romance. What was in the letters that so
offended your aunt when you found it out?”
interpolated Nellie. 
	“It was a sort of disconnected history
but Belmont put this and that together, and
told me that my great aunt had to run
away to America because some one fought a
duel about her. You see she was engaged
to two or three young men at once, and
after all it wasn’t her fault, she explained
some of it to me and cried and her lips
were as pale as ashes. I never expected to
see Aunt Dilliway shed a tear, she never
cried when bad news came, not even when
any one died that she had known all her
life. She used to tremble a little and her
lips would quiver, and that was all.”
	“Then she is a real born tory is she?
What did she come here for? Was it true
that tale Belmont told about a duel? Did
your aunt own up to it?” cried the roman-
tic one of the girls.
	“It wasn’t quite true, but Harry Severn
was dead when she came over to America,
and she will never set foot on English soil
again, never.”
	“Then she ought to be an American and
not a tory. Harry Severn, was he an offic-
er of rank, brave and accomplished? I
judge so from what you told us about the
harp.”
	“Yes, he was a distinguished officer, but
Aunt Dilliway’s father made another
match for her, and he wanted to separate
her from Lieut. Severn. The family were
too poor, and he thought his daughter was
good enough to marry a duke, so he select-
ed the eldest son of a relative of a duke,
who was the heir (the duke had no children
and he was getting very old) and he was
soon to come into his inheritance. He paid
his addresses to my aunt and sort of fasci-
nated her with his elegant manners and all
that, but he didn’t touch her heart at all,
Belmont said, and then there was another
lover, a real duke in his own right, old and
had grown up daughters but no sons, and
he fairly persecuted Aunt Dilliway.”

[Column 3]
	“For goodness sake, Pamela, what was
your Aunt Dilliway’s name? She couldn’t
have been called Aunt Dilliway when she
was young.”
	“No, but she never will be called any-
thing but Miss Dilliway by people, and all
her letters come addressed to Miss Dilliway,
and I never knew she had another name
till Belmont said to me one day ‘Penelope
Dilliway,’ and I turned on her and said
‘who’s Penelope Dilliway please?’ ‘Penelope
she’s your great aunt herself.’ Before that
I had never thought about her having any
other name.”
	“Now do tell us about the three suitors
and how it all happened and she never
married either one of them. And, besides,
one day you said when your Aunt Dilliway
was a young girl they used to have gay
times at Christmas in England,” chimed in
the romantic young Miss who first asked
for the story.
	“And so they did, and I’ve heard of their
great doings and Belmont has told me
about Xmas in France, too.”
	“Well we haven’t time to go over all the
countries, finish this one story.”
	“So I will if you’ll let me, now keep
quiet. You understand there were three
men all in love with Aunt Dilliway. First
there was Harry Severn, then the young
heir-at-law, then the real duke. Two were
poor and one was rich, but Charles Plymp-
ton had ‘great expectations,’ and the Duke
of Weldmore he wanted a young wife hop-
ing to have a son.”
	“Did your aunt tell you that or did you
read it in the letters?”
	“No, Belmont told me. My aunt would
be wild with rage if she suspected I had
ever heard of it.”
	“It strikes me that your French gover-
ness ought to be sent to Halifax, but it
serves people right who set themselves up
like that, as if their children were so much
better than other peoples. I suppose that’s
toryism, but it isn’t American,” said Julia.
	“On the same principle,” said Gratia, a
very demure, little girl, “we are all sent to
this select school for girls, and simply be-
cause we are not to go with all the other
girls in the villiage, I tell you girls, its a
question of money. I heard my mother
say, ‘I shall send Gratia to a girls’ select
school as we can’t afford a governess.’ ”
	“So you are a little tory, too, are you?”
said Julia.
	“Now girls,” put in Pamela, “if you
are going to dispute about politics I shall
never finish this story and you’ll all dream
about it, and tomorrow will be Sunday, and
my aunt will make me read the Bible and
sing hymns all day, she’s a Puritan, there’s
no denying that, but she can’t take me to
meeting with her, that’s part of the bar-
gain, and uncle never goes any way. Now
where did I leave off, if you say much more
I shall not know whether I’m a tory or a
rebel.”
	“They’re both the same,” echoed two
or three at once.”
	“I am sure I don’t know where I left
off.”
	“You left off about Xmas time,” said
Jane Willis, “and that’s what we all want
to know about, I don’t care which of the three
men your aunt was in love wtth, if you
would only tell us about an English Christ-
mas in one of those great stone castles, or
large old-fashioned mansions, of which we
have so often heard yet know so little.”
	The girls were so inquisitive and inter-
rupted Pamela with questions all the way


[Column 1]
through her narrative that it is quite im-
possible after half a century to be anything
like accurate in the repetition, so I have de-
cided to tell the story myself as she told it
to us as nearly as I can remember it.
	You must imagine a dozen or more half
grown girls in short dresses with low necks
and wearing frilled pantalettes and low slip-
pers clustered around Miss Pamela, eyes
beaming with delight while she told the
love story of her great Aunt Dilliway.
AUNT DILLIWAY’S LOVE STORY.
	Penelope Dilliway was an only daughter,
and very proud of herself and her belong-
ings, had been taught all sorts of accomplish-
ments such as were considered woman’s
legitimate employment in those days, or
perhaps we should say for “fine ladies."
such as embroidery, singing, dancing and
playing the harp, especially dancing. Miss
Dilliway’s father was determined she should
marry well, and his idea of marriage was
wealth and title, one or both. His daugh-
ter, however, fell desperately in love with
a young lieutenant, a man of brilliant
parts, a fine tenor singer, and a general
favorite in society.
	Miss Dilliway resorted to all sorts of
subterfuges to deceive her irate father; and
her younger brother, (the maternal grand-
father of Miss Pamela) was her accomplice
in many well laid plots of the lovers. The
father introduced into the home the young
and fascinating heir-at-law of a dukedom,
Mr. Charles Plympton, who really had
great influence with Miss Penelope, by his
sophistry and polish, and at first Miss Dilli-
way fancied she was yielding to blind her
father to the true state of her love affairs
with the young lieutenant. But her broth-
er more quickly than herself detected the
fascination; and felt in duty bound to re-
monstrate with her saying, “You cannot
possibly be aware of your own inconstancy,
your desire to please Plympton in the mat-
ter of dress, the choice of flowers and per-
fumery, and above all your great desire to
be an expert horsewoman, all of which is
very apparent to a close observer, reveal per-
ceptibly how the matter stands. Father
speaks of it with great satisfaction at the
dinner table after you are gone, and Plymp-
ton chuckles with delight at the success at-
tending his suit. It is downright coquetry
think of it as you will, sister, I believe you
are innocent, I believe you love Harry
truly, but Plympton’s wiles and artifices
are luring you on to your own destruction.”
	When thus reproved Penelope would
weep, (she had tears for occasion then) and
declared she would never try to please
Plympton again, let him pursuade as he
might, she would give up riding much as
she enjoyed it, and remain away from balls
and pleasure parties, where she would be
likely to meet one who sought her against
her will.
	Meantime Harry Severn was away with
his regiment, but rumors reached him of
Penelope riding in the park with Plympton,
and other like rambles together, of their
dancing together more often than even
lovers were wont in those days. Goaded
beyond endurance by his fellow officers he
obtained leave of absence and hurried to
London.
	Arriving at the time of Xmas festivities
he looked up young Dilliway his true friend
who unconscious of the presence of Plymp-
ton at the hall took Harry Severn home
with him, thinking it would be an easy

[Column 2]
matter to come unannounced and surprise
his father, who though perhaps nonplussed
at first was too much the gentleman in his
own house to be rude even to an unwelcome
guest. Unfortunately he had "reckoned
without his host." Penelope was in the
gayest of spirits[-] regardless of her protesta-
tions to her brother, she had dressed her-
self with the greatest care in the colors
Plympton preferred, and even wore his
favorite flowers, sent from his own hot
house, and everything in and about the
mansion bespoke a woman’s desire to please
the guest of the occasion.
‘The mistletoe hung in the castle hal[-],
The ho[-]ly branch shone on the old oak wall.'
	Young Dilliway sprang from the cab and
Harry Severn followed him into the great
wide hall amid a perfect blaze of light and
dazzle of brilliancy; beyond was the library,
and the brother thinking to give his sister
the pleasure of a lover’s greeting hurried to
the library with his young friend while he
went himself to call Penelope. The library
opened on the other side from the drawing
room, and while Harry stood waiting ex-
pecting momentarily to see his sweetheart
the heavy tapestry curtains parted, and
beaming with smiles, and radiant as the
sun, in steps Penelope followed by Charles
Plympton. At sight of her lover in mili-
tary cloak and plumes, she paled like death
and would have fainted had she not burst
into tears; the soldier never stirred, he stood
like a statue, a few seconds and the brother
came to the rescue, he took his sister and
led her from the library through the long
hall up the marble staircase to her own
room and there he left her “alone with her
conscience.”
	He was absent a few seconds but in that
time angry and bitter words had passed be-
tween the two young men[-] and a quarrel
seemed inevitable. The brother succeeded
in pacifying them by reminding them it was
Xmas eve, and that “Peace and good will”
had always prevailed at such times in all re-
spectable English homes; that it would be
an unpardonable offense for two gentlemen
to disturb the host, and what would be
gained by giving way to an insane passion
for supremacy in a young girls affection.
“Besides,” he added, “you believe, doubt-
less in the old saying ‘All is fair in love
and war.’ ”
	While her brother was making peace be-
low stairs, Penelope’s sobs and shrieks had
brought her maid Honore to her assistance,
and with the aid of restoratives and condo-
lences, she finally calmed her nerves, pur-
suaded her to change her apparel, and
make herself presentable at dinner, for there
was to be quite a large party of gentlemen
and a few ladies, among them the old duke
who was so enamored of Penelope, that he
made himself ridiculous in the extreme.
	Penelope had at least two good hours in
which to compose herself and her father
and brother were too much engaged in pre-
parations to pay any attention to other
matters; as for Ned he was maneuvering to
keep peace with the two disappointed lov-
ers, and so Penelope had time for reflection.
Her maid consoled her pride and vanity by
saying “she was sure it was no harm for a
pretty young woman to dress to please
visitors, and of course, honey, you were
perfectly innocent, tho’ if you had known
Mr. Severn was coming home you would
have worn moss roses and violets and pale
blue silk instead of that gay figured satin
with the poppies, and I know the Lieut. is
the favorite by your blushes.”

[Column 3]
	Poor Penelope tried in vain to hush the
voluble maid, who simply adored her young
mistress as she had the mother whom she
had served when Penelope was a child, and
who had been dead now some years; and as
trusted servants will she took great liber-
ities in talking, not only to Miss Penelope
but to Miss Penelope’s lovers, whenever
she had an opportunity making each in
turn believe he was the prime favorite
	Finally the dinner gong rung and Penel-
ope pale and trembling dressed demurely in
Quaker gray satin, emerged from her room
and went almost stealthily to the great,
oaken dining hall. Her brother had come
forward and to disguise the awkward
library scene from his father, said, “My
sister, I have a surprise for you, here is our
young Lieut. home on furlough, and Mr.
Plympton and the Duke of Weldmore, Lady
Eliza and Miss Bessie, his daughters,” and
so on through the entire company. Mr.
Dilliway was in such high spirits that he
did not observe the sedate and studied man-
ner of his daughter, nor the black looks in-
terchanged between the three suitors. He
thought only of the grand dinner and the
grander guests, who had come at his invita-
tion to partake his hospitality; for rich as
he was, favored by fortune, he had no
claim to titles and it was something of a
condescension on their part, to have his
table filled with men and women of rank
and title. He had no idea a storm was
brewing there and then that would end in
sorrow and disgrace.
	Dowager Lady Cushing sat at the table
by Miss Dilliway for in those days it was
not proper for unmarried ladies to enter-
tain at dinner, unless they had reached an
uncertain age; and after much feasting and
gay interchange of witty toasting and rep-
artee the ladies retired to the drawing room
and Penelope breathed more freely. Two
or three times Lady Cushing rallied her for
lack of her usual witticisms, she was an ad-
mirer of Penelope’s beauty and would glad-
ly have secured her as a wife for her young-
est son, but he was sensible enough not to
venture into the field with so many rivals,
even at his mother’s earnest solicitation.
Ned Dilliway and Harry Severn excused
themselves soon after the ladies withdrew,
and went into the open air where they
could speak freely. Ned promised Harry if
he would be discreet, he would secure an in-
terview for him with his sister, whom he
was sure loved him best, notwithstanding
appearances to the contrary, and the Lieut.
went away out of sorts leaving his adieux
for Ned to make. In the dining room the
Duke boasted of his diplomacy in courtship
so openly that he angered Charles Plymp-
ton who bandied words with him until Mr.
Dilliway was obliged to interfere and sue
for peace, at least while under his roof at
Xmas time.
	Lady Cushing and the duke’s daughters
took affectionate leave of Miss Dilliway,
when the hour came for going, declaring
the dinner, the music and the entire
affair a perfect entertainment, and when
Lady Cushing kissed her she said, “Poor,
dear Penelope, what a pity you can’t marry
all your beaux. I’m sure you don’t know
which to choose between so many. I wish
my Dick would enter the contest.”
	Penelope half bewildered stammered out
“O don’t, Lady Cushing, spare him any share
of humiliation I am bringing on my-
self.”
	It was the first out break she had made;
(Continued on page 8[-].)


(Continued from page 87.)
but in a sense it was a sort of relief. She
had neither a mother, aunt or sister in whom
to confide.
	A day or two followed in pouring rain
and sleet and it was almost impos-
sible to go outside, no visitors came though
it was holiday week; and the real Christ-
mas, the day after the party was more for
the servants and people employed by them
than for the family. Penelope’s tears were
almost like the downpour of rain and she
begged Ned to make everything right with
Harry, and so he did and planned a meet-
ing which ended in a reconciliation and a
promise of marriage, as soon as the father’s
consent could be obtained. The Lieut. re-
turned to his regiment and Penelope set
about preparations for the bridal trousseau,
as she had independent means of her own,
and was left much to herself in matters of
expenditure, it was an easy thing to do.
London affords great opportunities for shop-
ping, and Honore knew all the best places
and establishments. The carriage was al-


[Column 1] 
ways at Penelope's disposal and no ques-
tions were asked. Mr Dilliway saw Plymp-
ton come and go often, and thought his
plans were working well; for the Lieut. 
had gone and of the difficulty between the
young men he was totally unaware. Oc-
casionally the old duke came and made
himself officiously familiar and Mr. Dilliway
chaffed Penelope unmercifully about her
old lover; but she kept her own counsel
and took no one into her confidence except
her brother Ned and Honore. And the
winter passed away with only a few house
parties here and there, the Plympton’s and
Dick Cushing would gladly have escorted
Miss Dilliway anywhere, and she had the
entree into the best society, for her beauty
and her voice were almost marvelous;
wherever she went she attracted great at
tention, and the young men in her set were
wild in her praise.
	The old Duke of Osmond died very sud-
denly at last, although his death had been
long talked of, and Charles Plympton the
rightful heir, very soon came into the estate,
assuming the name and title. Mr. Dilli-
way rested secure; to all appearances Charles
was in proud possession of the field, and he
began to urge his daughter to prepare for
marriage settlements, and to purchase
bridal apparel. It was not difficult for Miss
Dilliway to dissemble. Honore thought it
all right and Ned did not object, now that
he felt sure she would be true to Harry,
and Mr. Dilliway spoke of the affair in the
most positive way. The young Duke was
so elated with his newly acquired honors,
and Penelope was so amiable with him,
that he was deceived by appearances into
believing that she was to be his wife though
her manner was always distant and haugh-
ty. He felt he had none of a lover’s privi-
leges, and yet he was so vain and selfish
that he did not take it to heart. There had
really been no courting, but Charles had an
idea it was the proper thing among people
of rank to show no sort of weakness.
	Mr. Dilliway made up his mind the wed-
ding should take place in June and Honore
had given the duke to understand her mis-
tress had consented. And she also added,
“Everything is ready except the legal mat-
ters which can be arranged when the time
comes.”
	Ned was in communication with Harry
and had informed him that his father had
consented to Penelope’s marriage in June
and that he would be ready, and when the
final settlements were to be made Penelope
would be firm in her resolution to marry
none but her own true lover, and his father
tho’ reluctant would certainly consent to
her choice at last and all would be well.
Ned also informed him that Plympton was
sweet on Lady Eliza, eldest daughter of
Duke Weldmore and in fact showed her
marked attention and if he ascertained the
true state of his sisters affection he would
soon console himself by espousing Lady
Eliza, who was really a very proper young
person and had always been accustomed to
wealth and refinement, and would make a
very elegant duchess. 
	Harry Severn was too much in 1ove to
wait until sent for, and hurried up to Lon-
don two or three weeks before he was ex-
pected; when hearing from his old friends
that Penelope Dilliway was engaged to
Plympton became so enraged that he called
upon him at his own place, and proceeded
forthwith to accuse him of winning his
sweetheart’s affection. Both were hot-

[Column 2]
tempered and a challenge was the immedi-
ate result of the interview. The affair was
to be private and each was to choose a sec-
ond. Naturally Harry chose Ned Dilli-
way and the duke one of his own men. It
was to take place the following day and the
night was spent in secret preparations for
the encounter. Ned Dilliway was reluctant
to serve as second but he yielded, believing
Harry to be so good a lance that he would
come off conquerer and all would be well.
However, he would not consent to its tak-
ing place on English ground, and so they
crossed the Channel. It was not an un-
usual thing for Ned to be away from home,
and neither Penelope nor her father
dreamed of any mischief brewing.
	The duel was fought, the duke escaped
without a scratch, but Harry was wounded
and Ned was obliged to carry home the
wounded man and bear the unwelcome
news to his father, who was so overcome
with rage and disappointment that he died
shortly after in a fit of appoplexy. Penelope
suffered untold agonies, she put her bridal
apparel away, determined never to go into
society again, but retire from the world of
pride and fashion. The duke went abroad
until the affair should blow over. Ned was
constantly with Harry Severn until he re-
covered sufficiently to go away on the con-
tinent, he was obliged to leave the service,
and within three years from that Christmas
eve things had undergone a great change in
the Dilliway house. Ned married Miss
Hester Cushing, Dick’s younger sister,
some years later, Harry Severn was
drowned at sea while crossing on the Medit-
teranean, during his convalescence which
had been slow and tedious. During all 
these years Aunt Dilliway had never seen
him, though her heart was constant and
had he not met an untimely death they
would have married. Duke Osmond came
back to England and fairly persecuted Miss
Dilliway but she sternly refused to see him
and they never met except by accident,
when she would be taking exercise in the
parks or suburbs, and then he was persis-
tent in offering her attentions, which she
obstinately refused when possible. She
sent back his letters unopened, refused gifts
sent anonymously and finally made up her
mind that it was impossible to live in Eng-
land.

	Such was Aunt Dilliway’s love story
told to us with all sorts of embellishments.
And no better object lesson could have
been given to a bevy of thoughtless, roman-
tic girls. It was little wonder that Aunt
Dilliway lived the life of a recluse with
such a past behind her. Ned Dilliway was
Pamela’s grandfather and both her grand-
parents and parents were then quietly sleep-
ing in the Dilliway cemetery. Pamela was
left an orphan when only six years old and
had been sent to her aunt in America who
was also appointed her guardian; but when
she became aware of the escapades and
treachery of Pamela’s governess she was
without doubt seriously alarmed. The
governess had been sent from England, in
care of the little girl and had been trusted
as one of the household. Aunt Dilliway
thought the wisest course would be to send
her into the country to her uncle in whom
she had great confidence. Pamela had been
fondly attached to Belmont, and was very
much grieved at parting from her; previous
however, to her going she had given the
girl sound advice, warning her against and

[Column 3]
sort of deception by telling her incidents in
her own experience.
	Shortly after our ramble among the hills
news came of the sudden decease of Penel-
ope Dilliway and Pamela left for Boston
with her uncle. We never saw her after
but heard of her return to England, and
through the Kingsley’s that her aunt had
left a very peculiar will and a letter ad-
dressed to her grand niece warning her
against the temptations of pride, vanity,
and above all coquetry, and the love of
dress and of admiration, setting forth elo-
quently her own mistakes in early life and
dilating upon her long years of suffering,
repentance and prayers for divine mercy
and forgiveness; imploring Pamela never to
practice deceit of any kind, but to be con-
stant, virtuous truthful and upright in all
things, which was the only safe course to
pursue and the sure road to happiness here
and hereafter.
	This love story briefly told should be a
warning to every vain and self-satisfied
young girl, who longs for attention and
admiration from the opposite sex, or from
the world; many innocent ones fall into
snares and are led astray through vanity
and inordinate pride. If girls could only
realize the untold misery and life-long sor-
row they would bring upon themselves and
their loved ones, they would assuredly pause
in their mad career and never allow their
good name to be tarnished by being called
a flirt.
	“Oh what a tangled web we weave
	When first we venture to deceive.”
							E. B. W.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pthe ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY JANUARY 1, 1898.


[Column 1]
A NEW YEAR'S GREETING.

	To the host of friends here and else-
where we offer our Happy New Year in
love and with best wishes for happiness and
prosperity during the year just entering
upon the threshold of Time. May it bring
with its varied seasons prosperity and peace
to the nation in which we live; may the
dark shadows which still linger in the
horizon of the year just past be quickly
dispersed and war no more like a bird
of ill-omen hoverover our fair land.
	Although the year 1898 opened aus-
piciously and civilization has made great pro-
gress along many lines, yet the war has
made terrible suffering and sorrow in tens of
thousands of homes the country over be-
sides the hardships, wounds and deaths of
the brave volunteers and soldiers them-
selves. Time alone can assauge the devas-
tation the war has occasioned, but even that
will not heal broken-hearted mothers, wives
and sweethearts.
	Utah was more fortunate than most other
states in this respect, and we know that our
boys and men who volunteered went forth
with the prayers and blessings and united
faith of thousands of the Latter-day Saints.
Yet many have returned home weakened
by fever and malaria, still we rejoice that
they are with us yet and hope for their
speedy recovery.
	The women of the Red Cross Society
throughout the land have done bravely and
here in our own state valiant work has been
accomplished; very little has been said or
published of these noble efforts put forth, in
philanthropic charity, bnt we know much
concerning it and how far-reaching it has
been.
	It is a matter of congratulation that
President McKinley mentioned the Red
Cross and its noble President, Clara Barton,
it is the first recognition of woman in the
message of a President of the United States
that we are able to recall. Let us hope that
it is a good omen for woman and that the
day so long looked for and so ardently de-
sired, when woman shall have her rightfnl
place in the annals of the nation, and in all
places and all measures that effect the wel-
fare of the people is not far distant.
	Would it could come to pass in Susan B.
Anthony's time or Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton's whose courage in advancing human
progress has been so marked for more than
half a century?

[Column 2]
	But women have the courage not only to
act in the fruitful present but to wait with
sublime hope for the coming time, when
all over this free and happy land an era of
progress shall come to pass such as has
never been in any land of which we have a
knowledge. And let us believe it is not
far off. Many wonderful things have trans-
pired in the year to which we now say adieu,
and science and electricity and many new
forces in the material world are pushing
their way to aid mankind materially and
are not moral and spiritual forces doing
battle for the uplifting of humanity. There
is and must necessarily be elements in the
universe, if we but knew how to grasp them
that would aid the triumph of light over
darkness. We as a people know something
of this power, of the faith that can heal the
sick, and through prayer and humility bear
us up when all others means are powerless.
	And now again A Happy New Year to
one and all of the readers of our dear little
“Exponent.” May the year 1899 be a
year of prosperity and success beyond our
expectations in literary work; for the wo-
men of the Church and of this State need
more history written and more home litera-
ture instead of so much that is not worth
the time spent on it and money expended
for it. Our young women do not appreciate
the efforts put forth by the women who
have laid the foundation in this line of
work. They are even inclined, at least the
majority of them to under value pioneer
journalistic efforts, though it has preserved
for the good of the community many
records, histories and sketches of important
trensactions, educational, political, and of
organizations and industries.
	At the present time there are great
deficiencies to be met in closing up old ac-
counts, and starting with the new manage-
ment of the Deseret News Company, even
if it is possible to pull through, but the
Relief Society and those who believe in an
official organ for its advancement should
make strennous efforts to secure sufficient
subrcriptions to tide over the crisis. Other
papers have had similar experiences and
friends have come forward to assist
pecuniarily and given substantial help.
The only thing wanting for the "Ex
ponent to make it financially successful
is a larger circulation. Have the women
of Zion the active interest of the Relief
Society and the silk industry at heart and
if so will they co-operate in raising the
means necessary?
	The "Exponent" has endeared the writer
to very many of the sisters, who have been
its patrons, and the personal friendships and
sisterly relations by interchange of calls,
visits and correspondence have been very
gratifying and beneficial in many waps.
	To tell how dearly we love it and those
who have been its advocates and contribu-
tors would be a difficult task, beyond lan-
guage to express; only when heart speak
to heart can it be understood. May the
new year prove how we all love the "Ex-
ponent" by substantial patronage.


AN APPEAL.
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the 
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also 
individual subscribers indebted for the 
paper are urgently requested to settle all 
old accounts at the earliest date possible.
This becomes an absolute necessity on ac-
count of the change that takes place in the


management of the Deseret Evening News. 
The “Exponent’’ will not be sent to any 
subscriber after January 1899 unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due in 
addition to the printed matter. 
	In consideration of the value of the “Ex-
ponent’’ to the Relief Society, and because 
of the work it has done in the cause of suf-
frage as well as the general educational 
help it has given the women of this inter-
mountain country.it seems scarcely possible
that women should be so careless of their 
own interest as to let the paper languish for 
want of support, yet the fact remains, and 
it is impossible to say what the women will 
do in the matter. 
	With the Relief Society of 30,000 women 
if one tenth of the number would take the 
paper and pay cash down it could be carried 
safely, yet that has been looked for, hoped 
for and waited for in vain. What the “Ex-
ponent has done to keep the society in 
various Stakes and in different parts of the 
world in touch with each other is of more 
value than the few hundred dollars it would 
take to maintain it independently. Appeal
after appeal has been made through the 
columns of the paper and by those who are 
its faithful supporters in public and in pri-
vate, and yet the failure to come forward 
with financial aid. At one dollar per year 
it seems incredible that the sisters who 
have the cause of Zion at heart and know 
as many hundreds do know the generous 
help the “Exponent’’ has given in ways al-
most innumerable, should not immediately 
raise the necessary funds, through large 
numbers of aubscriptions. Besides the 
great need the Relief Society has for an or-
gan of its own, the silk industry needs it
quite as much and both should have its 
support through the liberal patronage of 
the women of Zion.


Lady Warwick among English women is 
an excellent public speaker, fluent, easy 
and pleasing.


DR. ROBERT’S NURSING CLASS. 
	The nurse’s class taught by Dr. Margaret 
C. Roberts in the Templeton for the last 
six months or more, held its graduating ex-
ercises on Tuesday Dec. 20, Counselor An-
nie T. Hyde presiding in the absence of 
President Horne. Dr. Roberts gave the in-
structions free in the interest and under the 
auspices of the Relief Society in this Stake 
of Zion. The members of the class acquit-
ted themselves admirably, and the Dr. her-
self read a very able and highly instructive
paper, (which we would gladly have pub-
lished if space would permit.) Congratula-
tory remarks were made by President B. 
W. Smith, E. B. Wells and L. D. Alder, 
also Counselors Clara C. Cannon and 
Annie T. Hyde; Elder C. W. Penrose oc-
cupied a few moments. Sister Hyde in be-
half of the Stake Board presented to Dr. 
Roberts in a neat and happy speech a hand-
some rocking chair in appreciation of her 
generous labors, and the class through one 
of the students, Sister Jones, presented a 
silver cake dish filled with lovely flowers. 
Other gifts and tokens of love suitable to 
the happy occasion were made and the good 
spirit manifested itself very perceptibly. If 
the graduating nurses will be as conscien-
tious in their duties as the Dr. has been in 
giving them instruction the benefit to the 
society will be productive of great good.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	On Sunday July 31, 1898, Apostle J. 
W Taylor, Elders Horace Ensign and Fred
Graham with Susa Y. Gates organized a 
Relief Society in Pueblo, Colorado, Sister
Gates presiding at the meeting. Apostle 
Taylor told the sisters they had the privi-
lege of choosing their own president. They 
selected Mrs. Elizabeth Hart who chose 
for her counselors Amanda Coleman and 
Emma Simmons, Ella Branch, secretary 
and Turner Johnson treasurer. The soci-
ety seems to be flourishing and meetings 
are well attended, the sick, the poor and 
needy are attended to according to their 
needs. They have a little money on hand 
and are making a quilt, so we learn from 
a letter recently received. 
	We have been notified by letter of the 
change of officers made in the Relief Soci-
ety of Sevier Stake. The president, Sister 
Elizabeth Bean, and her first counselor, 
Sister Thurza Thurber, had presided since 
the first organization nearly twenty years 
ago, but on account of disadvantageous cir-
cumstances preferred to resign. The con-
ference was held at Glenwood and Elder 
Joseph Horne, counselor to the president of 
the Stake, was present and the resignations 
were accepted and a new Board of officers 
elected, Christina Sorenson, president;
Mary Magleby and Sister Tueson, counsel-
ors; Mary Swindle, secretary, and Caroline 
Bowman, treasurer. Sisters Bean and 
Thurber are satisfied with their labors and 
feel they have the love and confidence of 
the sisters. It was a great surprise to the 
General Board as they knew nothing of the 
change of officers.


R. S. REPORT. 

SALT LAKE STAKE. 
	The quarterly Stake conference of the
Relief Society convened December 3, 1898,
in the 14th ward Assembly Hall, at 10 a.
m. Present on the stand were President
M. I. Horne, Counselors Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon, Presidents Zina D.
H. Young and Bathsheba W. Smith of the
General Board;and also of the Stake Board;
Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder, aids,
Maria W. Wilcox, corresponding secretary;
Augusta W. Grant, recording secretary.
	Meeting opened by singing “God moves
in a mysterious way.” Prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe. Singing “The resurrec-
tion day,” in remembrance of Sister Sarah
M. Kimball whose death was announced by
Sister Horne. The roll was then called.
	President Horne wished the sisters to re-
member the meeting is held the first Satur-
day in the month each quarter. The name
of Sister Augusta W. Grant was placed be-
fore the conference, and she was sustained
unanimously as Stake secretary.
	Presidents of the country wards were
were called upon to report.
	President Horne was pleased to hear the
reports, From her visits to the different
associations she found them all in good con-
dition. Those who donate will be blessed,
but those who do the spiritual work, which
is very important, will have additional
blessings. Now that winter is coming on
we must look after the worthy poor, they
must be taken care of. Prayed that the
Lord would bless us all and especially those
who have come so far this morning in the
cold. Spoke of the death of Sister Sarah
M. Kimball, and her faithfulness and good
works in life.
	President M. W. Wilcox, 4th ward, Salt
Lake City, spoke of the work of the aged
sisters who try to help themselves. Have
made 150 yards of carpet.
	President Zina D. H. Young said, “This
organization is from the Lord. I am
thankful that I am able to be here today.”
Gave reminiscences of the days of Nauvoo,
and hoped the sisters here would never
have to go through such trials. Spoke of
Sister Kimball’s good works.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith thought
now that Sister Kimball was gone she was
the only one who had been present at the
first organization of the Relief Society.
Wanted to see the Relief Society wide
awake and ready to do their duty. Take
an interest in our neighbors, do good to all
and work in the Temple for the dead.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “The God we adore.” Benediction by
President Sarah J. Cannon.
	Afternoon session 2 p. m. Singing, “O,
my Father.” Prayer by Sister E. L.
Webb. Singing “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.’’ Minutes of the last
quarterly conference read and approved.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt honored to

(Column 2)
see so many of the elderly sisters, those
who had spent their lives in good works. 
Exhibited the album presented to Sister
Horne on her 80th birthday by the Relief
Society, and said it was a very appropriate
and beautiful tribute to one worthy of all
we can do. All of our young people do not
appreciate the work that is done by the sis-
ters and the Relief Society. The presidents
should be alive to their work and not allow
interest to lag. All strive to create an in-
terest, invite some one to come and give
special subjects, a lecture, or what-
ever they can do. They are mother’s class-
es. "Sister Horne wishes me to say that
she feels that the Lord inspired the sisters 
to do what they did for her, to make her
eightieth birthday memorable, and she is
very grateful.” Spoke of Sister Kimball
and said she was the only woman so far as
she knew that had laid the corner stone for 
a building, the Relief Society hall in the
15th ward.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said she felt
very grateful to the Lord that she had been
raised from a bed of severe  sickness. Said
we cannot be grateful enough for His many
blessings, our lives should be such that we
will be living examples to the young peo- 
ple.	 Much depends upon the mothers,
they can teach their children not to associ-
ate or marry those outside of our Church.
The teachers can do much good by drop-
ping a word of counsel when they visit the
families, and mothers should gather their
families together when these teachers visit. 
It is not their only mission to collect con-
tributions for the poor, though that is a
great work; they should be able to expond
the scriptures. We should have something
instructive in all our society meetings,
reading or something besides reports, that
the young people may be attracted to the
meetings.
	Sister Horne raquested that the revela-
tion given to Emma Smith should be read 
by the secretary.	This is the 25th section
in the Doctrine and Covenants. President 
Horne made a few remarks on the same
subject and advised the sisters to read more
of these revelations, and take note of their
meaning, it will be a great benefit to them 
and they can see that the prophecies are be-
ing fulfilled-	The Prophet Joseph Smith
always had great respect and consideration
for the sisters.
	Sister E. Stevenson said when the war
was declared she felt that the way would
be opened and the Gospel carried to many 
people who had not heard it before. We
should be careful of our conversation be-
fore our children, improve our time and in-
form ourselves in the principles of the Gos-
pel. If we are tried remember that "Whom
the Lord loveth He chasteneth.”	Instil
faith into the hearts of your children, appre-
ciate the blessing and privilege of going
into the house of the Lord, and let us live
our religion, give great attention to our
children, the mission of motherhood is the
greatest on the earth.
	Sister L. D. Alder said, "I love the Gos-
pel, and I love all those who love the Gos-
pel.	Those who work and serve the Lord
by devoting themselves to their children are
doing a great work; but those who add to
this work by laboring in the Relief Society
need not neglect these duties." Paid a lov-
ing tribute to the memory of Sister Kimball.
Said let us make our choice of things for a
better world.	There should be no mourn-
ing when we leave this world. Great and


[Column 1]
glorious will be the reward of the faithful,
we are free to choose our lives, but must be
satisfied with the result.
	Sister Mary S. Clark of Farmington said
she could not remember when she did not
have a testimony of the Gospel. It seems
so consistent and reasonable. Felt the
wonderful influence of the good spirit in
this meeting, and felt paid for all the trials
she had passed through. She greatly
appreciated the changes that had taken
place and the many comforts that the Saints
have now. Bore a strong testimony and
told of many of the manifestations of the
goodness and power of God. Don’t let
little things influence us too much, but
think of the great things of the Gospel.
May we know our duty and strive to do it.
	Sister Horne stated that in some of the
the wards the ReliefSociety presidents speak
in the wards and we would try to make
this a rule in all the wards, to speak the
Sunday evening before conference. Please
remember presidents, that the first Satur-
day in March, always the Saturday before
fast day, every three months. Do not let
us be discouraged if the younger people
look upon us as being non-progressive, we
do our work quietly and do not herald our
labors by the sound of trumpets, but if we
continue faithfully to work in an earnest,
quiet way, we will be rewarded.
	Couference adjourned for three months,
first Saturday in March. Singing “How
firm a foundation.” Benediction by Presi-
dent Horne in the gift of tongues, inter-
preted by President Zina D. H. Young.
					A. W. GRANT, Sec.

			EMERY STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference,
of Emery State. Held at Huntington,
Oct. 31st, 1898. Annie U. Larsen presid-
ing. Meeting commencing 10 a. m. by
the choir singing, “Come, Oh Thou King
of Kings,’’ under the leadership of Profes-
sor Hardie. Prayer by Brother Hardie.
The choir sang, “The happy day is rolling
on.” President Annie U. Larson, spoke
at some length, gave a report of the Stake.
Said, she with her counselors, had made a
visit to all the branches since our last con-
ference had found the sisters anxious to
adhere to counsel. Many had and were
building halls and granaries and storing
up wheat for time of need. There was a
steadily growing interest in silk culture.
Many had planted trees and cuttings and
some had raised a few worms; she had on
exhibition some beautiful cocoons and a
twist of silk that had been raised in Emery
County; she was pleased that the sisters
were willing to profit by the advice of the
stake board. After which Huntington,
Cleveland, Castle Gate, Orangeville, Castle
Dale, and Ferron were represented. Each
president substantiating the report of
President Larson. Bishop Johnson,of Hun-
tington spoke to the sisters, a short time en-
couraged them to lay up grain and hoped
the brethren would aid them what they
could.
	Congregation sang, “We thank thee O
God for a Prophet.” Benediction by Brother
M. E. Johnson.
	Afternoon session: Choir sang “Great
is the Lord” prayer by Brother Charles
Pulsipher. Sang, "How will the Saints
rejoice to tell.” Annie Larsen announced
the visitors from Salt Lake. Elder L. John
Nuttall, Sisters Stevenson and Alder. The
President from Price, Sister Pace gave a

[Column 2]
report. After which Sister Stevenson ad-
dressed the conference. She said mother-
hood was the greatest duty of life, urged
the older sisters to give their experiences to
theyoung mothers, teach them how to care
forthe babies when sick, thought many
little ones were taken away through not
knowing how to properly care for them.
A mother’s first duty was the care of her
children, all others were secondary. The
sisters should teach house-keeping in the
society; felt that ignorance on the subject
was the cause of many divorce cases.
This should be steadily improved upon by
the careful teachings of the mothers. Our
daughters married our sons and it should be
the careful study of every mother that they
were in every way worthy of each other.
Teach them virtue and self denial. Sister
Lydia D. Alder spoke of the importance of
attending the Relief Society said that sisters
who labored in the society would be satis-
fied with the life they had spent. It was
necessary that mothers should attend the
Sabbath school as much as anything else,
by blessing we are blessed. Our children
may be careless and wayward, but if we do
our part. they will yet come back, God will
keep a watch care over them. Be careful
how we spend our lives. By careful
thought we progress We must not lose
sight of the fact that it is necessary to have
trials, if we staid in the same place there
would be no advancement. If it is hard
for us today do as well as we can for it may
be harder for us tomorrow.
	Elder L. John Nuttall spoke at some
length on the needs and necessities of the
Relief Society. Said that each president
should take a pride in her society and make
it the best, the Prophet Joseph said the duty
of this society was to save souls, gave
several ways how this could be done. It
was the duty of the sisters to learn the
Gospel that they might be able to convert
others, many women would be called upon
missions and it was necessary to inform our
selves that we could do credit to the church
to which we belonged. He read extracts
from the minutes of the first organization
and commented upon it. Meeting closed
by singing “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation.” Prayer by Bishop Robertson.
	An officers meeting was called just after
the afternoon session. Elder Nuttall there
explained many things that were of great
importance to the sisters.
	An evening session was held, the choir
sang "Behold the Savior comes,” prayer by
Elder C. R. Johnson. Sang “Ye wander-
ing nations.” Elder Nuttall occupied most
of the time in a very instructive and in-
teresting manner; spoke of the first or-
ganization of the Relief Society its aim and
object, how it had been a great help to the
church, it being the first organization of
women on the earth and that the Prophet
Joseph had said he had turned the key for
women, how many organizations of women
had been effected since. and the good we
could do providing we never lost the spirit
of the gospel, we should all declare to our-
selves that “As for me and my house I in-
tend to serve the Lord.’’
	Sister Estella Colard sang “My Mountain
Home.”
	Sister Stevenson spoke of the silk culture,
encouraged the young ladies to join the
Relief Society.
	President Annie U. Larson made a few
remarks and said we would meet again at
9:30 a. m. Saturday, as the children’s con- 
ference would have a portion of the forenoon

[Column 3]
Choir sang “Behold the Mountain of the
Lord.” Benediction by Elder H. A.
Fowler.
	Saturday, 9:30: Annie Larson presiding.
Choir sang “Sweet is the work my God my
King,” prayer by Elder Samuel Rowley.
Sang, “Are we yet alive.”
	Sister Alder spoke of the inventions
that are in our day. It was a day of ad-
vancement, if we were not careful we
would be left behind. Urged the sisters to
cultivate themselves; we had no time to
lose. We should brighten up our mind
and make ourselves useful; explained
clearly how much good the Exponent had
been to the sisters, was anxious that the
members of the Relief Society should sus-
tain it. Advised the sisters to make a
study of the Book of Mormon. It was
necessary for the president to study the
members and help them to cultivate the
talent that was in them: we should make
confidents of our daughters and draw them
nearer to us that they might in return
make confidents of us, give them some-
thing to do in the Relief Society.
	Elder Nuttall was the next speaker. He
endorsed the remarks of the former speaker,
spoke of the difference in early times and
now educationally, read some of the min-
utes of the Relief Society held in the days
of the Prophet Joseph, said the sisters had
the right to lay hands on the sick.
	Stake Counselor Pulispher was pleased
with the conference and very thankful the
visitors had met with us.
	Stake Gounselor Josie E. Childs pre-
sented the general and stake officers of the
society which were unanimously sustained.
President Annie Larsen said the next con-
ference would be at Ferron Sang “Joy to
the world” Benediction by Elder Thomas
Hardie.
					M. J. SHIPP, Sec.

			SANPETE STAKE. 
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held in Moroni Dec. 9th, 1898. Counselor
A. L. Cox presiding, singing “How firm a
foundation.” Opening prayer by Elder
James Jensen; singing, “Now let us re-
joice” etc. Minutes read and approved.
	Counselor Cox made opening remarks.
Was pleased to meet with the sisters in
conference, but she very much regretted
the absence of our beloved president Sister
M. A. Hyde, who is seriousy ill, hoped the
sisters would all remember her in their
prayers. Roll call showed a fair repre-
sentation considering the severity of the
weather.
	The different branches were represented.
	Counselor A. L. Cox was greatly pleased
and encouraged by the favorable reports
and especially the increased attendance.
Said it was not the destiny of the Latter-
day Saints to stand still and was glad to
hear of the advance made along the lines of
Relief Society work. Was also pleased to
hear of increased diligence in storing grain.
Said before another conference a new year
will be ushered in. Hoped the spirit of im-
provement would continue to be manifest
in all our labors. Conference adjourned
till 2 p. m. Singing “Praise to the Man”
etc. Benediction by Sister Christina
Thompson.
	Afternoon session: Singing “The Spirit
of God” etc. Prayer by Sister Jane Bench,
Singing, “For the strength of the hills”
etc, 
	Counselor A. L. Cox was much gratified 
that so many of the presidents had ex-


pressed their intention of building granaries
for themselves, as it showed a desire to have
their wheat properly taken care of and thus
encourage others to contribute grain for
storing. Made reference to the recently ap-
pointed Annual Day on March 17; urged
the necessity of a general observance of the
day and also the collection of the ten cent
donation. Requested the sisters to sustain
the “Exponent” in a society capacity and
so far as possible, as individuals. Also
spoke on silk, dwelt at some length on the
duties of teachers, and the necessity of
seeking divine aid in their labors.
	Counselor Abagail Shoemaker was much
pleased to hear of the increased diligence
manifested in storing grain. It is a mission
placed upon us which we should strive to
fulfill to the best of our ability. Was
thankful that the Prophet Joseph had been
impressed to organize the Relief Society,
but that we be diligent if we expect to re-
receive the blessings pronounced to the
faithful.
	Sister Shoemaker said that President
McAllister had expressed a wish that the
Relief Society make some carpet for the
Temple, which she was sure would be ac-
complished.
	Sister Cox made closing remarks. Spoke
of the necessity of cultivating the gift of
faith, and of the marvelous escape of the
Utah boys in the battles, at Manila, which
she considered largely due to the prayers of
the Saints in their behalf. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “We thank thee O, God for a
Prophet.” Benediction by A, L. Cox.
	ALVIRA L. COX, Cor Sec.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING

	Semi-monthly meeting held November,
26th, 1898, in the 14th ward hall, President
M. I. Horne presiding, opened by singing,
“Let those who would be Saints indeed;”
prayer Sister Brown; singing “Zion stands
with hills surrounded;” Minutes read and
approved. President M. I. Horne said,
“this is a proving day and a pruning day;
we have our liberty, our choice, our agency,
we can serve God or not; if we attend to
our prayers and our duties we shall not go
astray, so said Joseph Smith, “Satan has
great power in deceiving and leading the
people away.” Exhorted all to be careful
of seducing spirits. Spoke of the suffer-
ings of Paul the Apostle how he had been
tried, said she felt well and thanked all for
the love expressed by her sisters on her
birthday, she thanked the Lord that He
had blessed her in raising her children and
begged all young mothers to ask God con-
tinually for His support to help them fill
their missions as wife and mother. Spoke
of the good seed we might sow day by day,
if we live as God wished us too. An-
nounced that the first Saturday every three
months would be Relief Society conference
and next Saturday was the appointed day.
Sisters Peterson, Liddle, Waterfall, Mary
P. Silver, Jones, Barton and Irvine bore
testimony of God’s goodness to them and
said many good things, in appreciation of
the blessings of the Saints. Congregation
sang, "Arise O glorious Zion.”
	Counselor Bathsheba Smith spoke of the
pernicious habit of smoking, thought we
might influence boys we meet, to avoid the
use of the tobacco, felt parents should rule


with kindness, and love. Sisters Ellis,
Cooper and others each spoke a few
words and bore their testimony.
	President Horne said we must expect
persecution, our Savior told us this, but we
should all be thankful that the knowledge
of the Gospel cannot be taken from us.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang
Doxology, Benediction.
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY IN OMAHA.

	The members of the Omaha branch of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints met Oct. 25, 1898, at 3 p. m., at the
home of Sister Clara M. Fredricksen, 1604
No. 29 St., Omaha, Nebraska, for the pur-
pose of organizing a Relief Society. There
were present Apostle Franklin D. Richards,
Sister Jane S. Richards, first counselor in
the general presidency of the Relief Society,
Emmeline B. Wells, general secretary,
Josephine Richards West, Bishop Peter
Barton and Ellen A. Barton of Kaysville,
Utah, Elder J. L. Hatch, president of
Omaha branch, Elders R. E. Yeates and
Daniel Mackay, Sisters Mary M. Miller,
Mary E. Blixt, Addie S. Stone, Ida A.
Peterson, Anna K. Gregerson, Caroline C.
E. Peterson, Mary M. Weeks, Clara M.
Fredricksen, Elizabeth Hover, Caroline S.
Tromler and Anna B. Olson.
	Meeting was called to order at 3 o’clock
p. m. by Elder J. L. Hatch. The hymn
which begins as follows was sung: “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by Elder R. E
Yeates. The hymn which begins “Now
let us rejoice” was sung. The meeting
was then presided over by Apostle Richards.
	Sister Richards expressed her joy and
satisfaction in being present with us today.
Referred to the time when the society was
organized with but few members, in the
days of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Then
they endured many hardships, being sur-
rounded by mob violence; subsequently
finding a peaceful home in the valleys of
the mountains the society was reorganized
by President Brigham Young, and has
spread and grown until now a society is
found in almost every branch and ward of

[Column 2]
the Church, numbering in all about thirty
thousand sisters. Sister Richards said Sis-
ter Zina D. H. Young who now presides
over the society in all the world, would be
pleased to hear of an organization in Omaha
where they suffered so much years ago.
“Although few in numbers you will not re-
gret being organized or miss the time spent
in the performance of duties. Meet together
as often as possible, once a week or once in
two weeks. Your principal duty will be
to care for the poor and needy, to adminis-
ter to the wants of the sick. Follow the
example of the Savior who cared
for all that were in need. At-
tend to those in need of assistance whether
they are of the house of Israel or not.” A
vote was called showing that all the sisters
present were in favor of being organized.
	Bishop Barton then spoke. He was
pleased to be present on such an occasion
and endorsed the remarks of Sister Rich-
ards. As a Bishop in one of Zion’s wards
he could appreciate the work of the Relief
Society. He said, “The sisters can do
more for the sick than the brethren, and I
have told the sisters in the ward where I
live that we could not get along without
them.” Said he often attended their meet-
ings and rejoiced at seeing the good they
accomplished. Related the saying of James
how faith and works go together. Bless-
ings were pronounced upon the Omaha
sisters by Brother Barton, in taking up
their work as a Relief Society.
	Sister Ellen Barton then added her testi-
mony. She had felt strange in Omaha un-
til meeting with the Saints on Sunday and
enjoying with us the spirit of the Gospel.
She spoke of the love and strength of spirit
it imparted to the sisters to work unitedly,
and the good that could be accomplished by
their doing the will of the Father. Refer-
ence was made to the sewing meetings the
society have at home, and how the poor
were provided with quilts, etc. She asked
the Lord to bless the sisters, and said she
knew they would find the work a pleasure
and of great benefit.
	President Richards said his feelings had
been expressed by the previous speakers. It
was with pleasure and thanksgiving that
he met with the branch of the Church in
Omaha. The object of the organization
about to be effected was to do good in time
of sickness and misfortune. The Church is
not to support us, but we must work to
build up the Church. The Relief Society
was not organized or brought into existence
to make offices for some one to fill, but for
the perfecting of the people and for the re-
lief of the distressed. It is not only a mat-
ter of dimes and dollars, but to administer
with kind words and deeds to the afflicted
of all people, for we are all of one royal
family. If we live up to the covenants we
have made with God He will bless us as
we need and we will realize some benefit of
the spirit. One of the prophets has said we
realize the gifts after trials. Said the next
step would be to select officers. He named
the officers necessary and said we wanted
those whose heart and soul was in the
work, and those who could work unitedly.
A person is not fit to be in office until he is
willing to be a servant. He mentioned the
necessity of keeping strict accounts and rec-
ords of the proceedings. He asked God to
direct in the selection of officers.
	Sister Richards related some of her ex-
perience in regard to office and thought
that had it not been for the work it seemed

[Column 3]
her duty to do in the Relief Society she
would not be alive today. She said we
were not here for our good looks but to be-
come good. The sisters were then given
the privilege of selecting one of their num-
ber for a president. Sister Weeks nomina-
ted Sister Addie Stone but she declined.
Caroline Tromler named Mary M. Miller
for that position. Sister Miller expressed
willingness to do her duty. Mary E. Blixt
made the motion that Sister Miller be sus-
tained as president, which was seconded by
Mary M. Weeks. The question was then
voted upon in the affirmative by all pres-
sent. Sister Miller chose Mary E. Blixt
as her first and Addie S. Stone as her second
counselors these names were put before the
meeting in their proper order and were sus-
tained by unanimous vote Sister Clara M
Fredricksen and Mary M. Weeks were
named for the secretaryship but for accept-
able reasons each declined. Ida A. Peterson
was then nominated for secretary and was
elected by united affirmative vote.
	Caroline C. E. Peterson was chosen and
voted in as treasurer of the society. Annie
K. Gregerson was unanimously sustained
as assistant secretary.
	Sister Richards then made a few remarks,
instructing the officers to go ahead with the
work, the counselors to share the responsi-
bility with the president Thought it
would be a great help to the association to
take the “Exponent.” The teachers of the
society may be selected at the next meet-
ing. Asked the Lord to bless us all. Sis-
ter E. B. Wells regretted that she was not
present at the fore part of the meeting,
but some delay in obtaining directions
caused her to be late. She was pleased to
meet the Saints. Called attention to the
blessing the Omaha sisters enjoyed in hav-
ing an Apostle and a Bishop at this meeting.
She recalled the past when she taught
school here nearly fifty years ago. She
told how helpful the Relief Society had
been to the Church and said its power
would increase.
	The officers of the Omaha society were
then set apart to their respective callings
under the hands of President F. D. Richards,
Bishop Barton and Elder Hatch. All present
then sustained each other as members of
the society. Benediction was pronounced,
by President F. D. Richards.
					J. L. HATCH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“MUSINGS AND MEMORIES.”

	“Musings and Memories” is a volume of
poems entirely of home production, and is
very suitable as a gift for the holidays. The
book is sufficiently elegant in appearance for
any drawing room or library table. It con-
tains three hundred pages and a steel en-
graving of the author. It is for sale at the
office of the “Woman’s Exponent,” Tem-
pleton Builiding, opposite Deseret News
office. Cloth binding, $1.25; dainty cover,
$1.50; morocco, $2.00. Those living out-
side Salt Lake City who might wish to pur-
chase the book should address,
		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
			Templeton Building,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1899.	NO 16.


CONTENTS:
	The Boston Tea Party. State Historical Soci-
ety. Fanny C. Loveland Dead—Samantha Ses-
sions. In Memoriam. Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting.—J. S. Woolley, Sec. U. W. P. C.—
Aimee C. Schiller, Sec. Sarah E. Carmichael—
Lydia D. Alder. Triennial of National Council.
Golden Wedding Anniversary—Violet Urie. R.
S. Reports. Letter From Santa Rosa—Lucy W
Kimball. Gone to Rest. Reorganization—
Emilia D. Madsen Sec.
	EDITORIAL:—Women in the Legislature. Ten-
dencies of the Age. Editorial Notes. Official
Notice. State Society D. and R.
	POETRY:—Words That Bless—Alofa.


WORDS THAT BLESS. 

TO SISTER MARY A FREEZE.

How oft as we journey on through life,
Does the heart grow weak from its toil and
	strife;
How oft we feel that the heavy load,
Is all too much for the long, long road! 
But a cheering voice in the stillness heard,
Sends strength through the ambient air,
Or a tender thought from a sister’s lips
Makes lighter the cross we bear.

How many eyes in the flight of years,
Are always moist with bitter tears,
Till the fountain of sorrow at last is dry,
And only the pent up soul can cry;
But an earthly angel whispers hope,
Though it seems but an idle dream,
And that hopeful whisper paves the way, 
Through which heaven’s light may stream.

How many discouraged ones there be
Who the sequel of life can so dimly see,
Who faint or falter at every turn,
Finding courage and faith so hard to learn!
To such a beautiful word is given,
A lesson of holy love,
And they who for earth will not brave the
	storm
Will try for the life above. 

There are many others whose stalwart forms
Are bowed and bent with life’s heavy storms;
Of toil they have always had their share,
They are weary now of the part they bear,
To the hearts of these tried, feeble ones,
There's a source of joy untold
In whispers of the deeds of worth
They have done in days of old.

Oh, these words of love! how much they do
To make us better—our hearts more true!
How much they help on the weary road!
How much they govern our last abode!
Yet oft in selfish hearts confined
Are the thoughts which thus might bless, 
And they never render the world more bright,
Nor make its sorrows less.

But the world of hope in which you live,
The words of comfort you often give,
The kindly letters your hand has penned 
To son or brother or distant friend,
Not only brighten the jeweled crown
Which you in heaven will wear,
But help to swell the throng who hope
To meet and love you there.

ALOFA.


[Column 1]
THE BOSTON TEA PARTY. 
	It seemed very fitting that the Massa-
chusettes state society, Daughters of the
Revolution, should observe the 125th anni-
versary of the “Tea Party day” at the old
Hancock Tavern in Corn court. For in
the very room where the plot was concocted
so many years ago the multitude of guests
was received by the state regent, Miss Sarah
E. Hunt.
	From 2 to 5 o’clock the narrow passage-
ways, the stairways and rooms were
thronged with people, all filled with the
spirit of ’73,if one could judge by their utter-
ances, and all proud of their revolutionary
ancestry.
	The large apartments of the olden time
have been divided up into smaller ones by
partitions, and in several, of these members
of the various Chapters throughout the
state served tea from tables daintily decor-
ated with yellow chrysanthemums and
lighted by buff candles with blue shades.
They wore their hair powdered and dressed
with high shell combs, and over their
shoulders wore kerchiefs in old time style.
	Souvenirs consisting of tiny boxes of tea
tied with ribbons of the continential buff
and blue were given to all the guests. The
ladies of the committee were Mrs. C. P.
Heath, of Lynn, and Miss Mary C. Sawyer
of Wellesley, who were greatly assisted in
their duties by Capt. Wadsworth of the
tavern.

	The room where the guests were received
is a queer old place, though the ancient
rafters are now hidden behind a ceiling of'
plaster. On one of the walls is the follow-
ing inscription: “In this room the Boston
tea party made their plans and dressed as
Mohawk Indians, and went to Griffin
(now Liverpool) wharf, where the ships
Beavor and Eleanor and Dartmouth lay,
and threw overboard 342 chests of tea, Dec.
16, 1773." On other parts of the wall are
quaint old paintings representing the differ-
ent scenes for which the house is famous.
The most remarkable of these decorations is
the old sign bearing a portrait of John Han-
cock, which for many years swung over the
courtyard. The tavern was called for him
in 1780, when he was made Governor.
This sign was blown down a number of
years ago, and is said to have killed a man
passing through the yard. The picture is
somewhat broken, but otherwise the figure
upon it shows quite plainly.
	History credits the old Hancock Tavern
with having been the temporary abiding
place of all the early statesmen and men of
note in the colony. The original house on
the spot was erected as early as 1631. Be-
sides the older worthies the present house
has sheltered Lafayette, Louis Philippe,
Talleyrand and many others.
	In the eventful years preceding the revo-
lution the tavern was a frequent meeting
place of the patriots. Not only was the
throwing over of the tea planned there,
but many other plots were made to discom-
fort the British and help the cause of the
colonies. At one time not so very long ago

[Column 2]
before historians and antiquarians had be-
gun to notice the place and to remember its
ancient prestige, it was familiarly known as
“Bite Tavern,” it is supposed because a
small lunch at a very reasonable sum could
be obtained there.

	On the afternoon of the tea party among
the many guests were quite a number
whose ancestors participated in the original
tea party. Among those was a Miss Treat,
whose grandmother, Helen de St. Pry, was
a god-daughter of Lafayette. She married
Lieut. Treat who was stationed at Castle
island from 1776 to 1798. Another guest
was young Edmund Sears who celebrated
his birthday by attending the reception, for
his ancestors had 125 years before helped to
throw the tea overboard. Other guests
whose ancestors participated in the historic
affair were Mrs. Walter Tower of Melrose,
a descendant of John Spurr; H. G. Hewes
of Braintree, descendant of George Robert
Twelves Hewes; Mrs. J. D. Ronimus, des-
cendant of James Starr, all of the “party”
and Mrs S. Agnes Sprague, whose ances-
tor was of the same notable company.
	Many of these told pleasing anecdotes of
their ancestors, which had been handed
down in the families, and of which they are
deservedly proud. The Fadette orchestra
played.
	There was no attempt at any formal
speechmaking. In fact it would have been
almost impossible to do so on account of the
crowded state of the rooms. Miss Hunt
did say to a little circle surrounding her 
that she believed in the patriotism of work-
ing for one’s country, especially along the
line, of good citizenship, and that next to
the work of the home and the church should
come that of the patriotic societies, which
strive to keep alive the memories of the his-
toric past to inspire the youth to noble ef-
forts and the highest type of life in the
future.
	There was no attempt at decorating the
ancient rooms but in one of them hung an
old lantern which hung for many
years outside the door of the old tavern
	—Boston Herald.


STATE HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.

	The State Historical Society held its
second annual meeting in the lecture hall
of the Templeton building, Jan. 16, Hon.
Franklin D. Richards, president of the soci-
ety presiding. The hall was well filled
and the program was instructive.
	Commencing Mrs. Browning rendered
“Sweet Bird of Spring,” accompanied on
the piano by Spencer Clawson Jr. Prayer
was offered by Hon. O. F. Whitney.
	Governor Wells was not able to be pres-
ent, but in the paper he contributed and
which was read by Hon. O. F. Whitney,
he expressed his sympathy with the work
of the society and pledged his support in
every possible way.
	President Richards delivered his annual
address, in which he reviewed the work of
kindred societies, offered suggestions to
members, and called attention to the great


field of usefulness before the Utah society.
	Dr. J. E. Talmage’s paper, The Material
of History, considered the subject from a
scientific standpoint, and took occasion to
suggest action on the part of the State
against vandalism, which had led to the de-
struction of many important relics of by-
gone ages.
	An address by Mme. Mila Tupper May-
nard upon the Culture Value of History
was able and interesting.
	Don C. Maguire dealt with the Pre-historic
Races of the Southwest, referring to the evi-
dence of such that had come under his per-
sonal observation throughout an area of
country extending from the Gulf of Cali-
fornia on the southwest, to the Snake River
on the north. In it he referred to explor-
ing work done by himself and Professor
Montgomery formerly of the State univer-
sity, among the mounds and caverns at
Paragoonah in Iron county, where they un-
earthed some twenty-five human skeletons,
of persons who undoubtedly had met death
by violence ages ago. Mr. Maguire said the
State was full of such evidence and he re-
garded the Historical Society as having a
great work before it.
	Benediction was pronounced by C. R.
Savage, after which the society elected
officers for the ensuing year, F. D. Richards
being re-elected president; Isabella Cameron
Brown, vice president; J. R. Letcher, re-
cording secretary; J. T. Hammond, cor-
responding secretary, L. S. Hills, treasurer;
Mrs. Antoinette B. Kinney, librarian.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


FANNY C. LOVELAND DEAD.

	Many of the friends and acquaintances of
Mrs. Fanny C. Loveland will be sorry to
hear of her death. She died Sunday morn-
ing, November 20, 1898, at Bountiful of
old age and general debility. She had been
confined to her bed about three months and
ailing all last summer. She was Carlos
Loveland’s mother, and sister to Lucina
Sessions, Samantha Willey, Rosoline Dustin,
and stepmother to Emarett Sessions.
	Deceased was born in the state of Ver-
mont on May 11, 1816, thus making her
eighty-two years of age. She was but a
mere girl when her father’s family joined
the Church and moved to Geauga county,
Ohio, to join the Saints there in 1836. At
the age of twenty-one in the year 1837 she
was married to Chester Loveland, who pre-
ceded her to the great beyond by about
fourteen years.
She passed through all the persecutions
of Kirtland, Ohio, Jackson county, Missouri,
and Nauvoo, and endured the hardships en-
countered crossing the plains, and arrived
in Utah with her husband in 1850, and lo-
cated in Bountiful. She buried a son four
years old while on her way across the plains.
	She went with her husband and others
who had been called to settle Carson Valley
where they remained from 1856 to 1857.
After her return she resided most of the
time in Bountiful with the exception of a
few years that she resided at Brigham City
and Calls Fort respectively.
	When the Relief Society was organized
at Brigham City August 28, 1866, she was
chosen second counselor to Sister Lenora
Morley. After Sister Morley’s death she
was appointed first counselor to Harriet
Snow, which position she held until the or-
ganization of Box Elder Stake.
	She was the mother of eight children,


four of whom are still living, three boys
and one girl.
	Funeral services were held at the Sessions
House, Tuesday afternoon at 4 o’clock.
The speakers were Elders C. R. Jones
Madsen, of the Salt Lake Temple, Joseph
L Holbrook, W. W. Willey, D. O. Willey,
Thomas Wadoups, Israel Call, Judson Tol-
man and John A. Waite. The remains were
taken to Calls Fort Wednesday morning,
where funeral services were held for the
benefit of friends and relatives who could
not be present at those held in Bountiful,
and the remains were laid to rest at that
place. Quite a number of relatives and
friends accompanied the remains to Calls Fort
Deceased has been a subscriber for the
“Exponent” from its first publication un-
til her death. She was an earnest worker
for the cause of truth, possessed an excel-
lent character and was especially noted for
being a “peace maker.” Her prepossess-
ing face wore a sweet smile which scattered
sunshine and happiness to all who mingled
with her.
			SAMANTHA SESSIONS.


IN MEMORIAM. 

SARAH FAULKNER.

	On Monday, Dec. 5, 1898, Sister Sarah
Faulkner passed over to the great beyond.
	Sister Faulkner was born in Chadwick,
Worcestershire, England, Feb. 6, 1830,
and was sixty-eight years old. She came
to Utah in 1853 and has labored very faith-
fully ever since, not only being an active
member in all her Church duties, but she
desired to aid in making our city attractive
as far as lay in her power, by beautifying
her surroundings.
The deceased was a teacher in the Relief
Society for many years and she did her
work faithfully in sun or shine. She was al-
ways charitable and kind to the needy. Mrs.
Faulkner was a very estimable lady and
leaves numerous friends to mourn her death
besides one son, her other five children
having gone before her. The cause of her
death was a malignant cancer, from which
she has been a sufferer the past two years. 
	ELLEN KELSEY, Sec.
Springville, Utah.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall Saturday, Dec.
17, 1898, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presid-
ing in the absence of President Horne.
Singing, “For the strength of the hills we
bless thee.” Prayer by Counselor Bath-
sheba W. Smith. Singing, “Welcome
best of all good meetings.” Minutes read
and approved.
	A sister, name unknown, bore a faithful
testimony. Counselor E. Webb spoke of
the spirit of meekness and love and said we
should dedicate ourselves to the Lord in
the morning and evening, be careful and do
our duties.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said this was the
first of the year when our hearts were
drawn out to one another, and our thoughts
are upon Him whose birth we celebrate.
She did not think we could realize the love
He bears for His children. He was an ex-
ample of humility and obedience. “Let us
love one another and help one another.”
Another sister spoke on honest tithing and
donations.

[Column 2]
	Sister Martha A. Morris who had just re-
turned from Europe spoke a few moments.
She said she had been to get genealogy,
but she had testified of the Gospel where-
ever opportunity offered. She had borne
her testimony to her relatives forty years
ago and she bore it again to them and told
them she would leave them without excuse.
	Sister Jane James rejoiced in living in
these days. Sister McMaster thanked God
that she had been permitted to come forth
in this generation. Thought it was our
business to secure God for ourselves and
not criticise others.
	Sister Jane A. Albrand spoke of the way
God cares for His children,. He preserves
them on land and sea. Sister Jane Powell
said she had walked many miles to preach
to her relatives but not one of them had
been so favored of the Lord as to accept
the Gospel but herself. Said she and her
daughter had been privileged to go into the
Temple and do the work for over one thou-
sand. 
	Sister Kiddle bore testimony to the power
of prayer and spoke of the great desire she
had to come to Zion, and how thankful she
was to her Heavenly Father she had been
permitted to do so.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of the great
wrong we did in criticising those placed
over us. Said her idea of a Latter-day
Saint was to be kind and not get angry, pay
your tithing, donations and Relief Society
donations, go to your meetings promptly,
be careful of your criticisms, watch and
pray and do good to all. Wished all a
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
	Counselor Stevenson said since we had
last met Sister Sarah M. Kimball had passed
away, she was one of the board of these
Saturday meetings. She wished all a Mer-
ry Christmas and a Happy New Year and
invited all to bring friends enough with
them to fill the house next meeting. An
invitation was sent to all the Relief Society
presidents and counselors to attend the
closing exercises of Dr. Robert’s nursing
class.
	Sister Morris and congregation sang “O,
my Father.” Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Benediction, Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


U. W. P. C.

The U. W. P. C. met in the pleasant
rooms of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, Friday eve-
ning, Dec. 30, 1898. After opening prayer
by Lydia D. Alder the secretary called the
roll, responses being given by quo-
tations on Christmas from favorite authors.
It was moved and seconded that all busi-
ness be dispensed with for the evening, ex-
cept the proposal of the name of Miss Nina
Winslow Eckart as a member of the club by
Mrs. E. B. Wells. Miss Eckart was unan-
imously elected a member.
	The following interesting and carefully
prepared program was rendered: Poem on
Christmas, Mrs. M. A. Freeze. Christmas
story, Mrs. E. B. Wells, also one by Mrs.
Ruth M. Fox. Christmas reminiscences
by Mrs. Maria Francis. Poem, Mrs. L. D.
Alder. Several beautiful musical selections
were rendered, after which the hostess and
her charming daughters served delicious re-
freshments. A short time was spent in
social converse after which the club ad-
journed to meet in the new year of 1899,
Jan. 31, at 7:30 in room 208, Templeton.
	AIMEE C. SHILLER, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.

	As lofty mountains whose crests ever
glisten with eternal snow hear strange and
weird music not sung by the sleepers in the
valley over whom they tower in grandeur
and majesty, so with the poet who hears
music in the floating wind whisperings in
the forest; to whom the sea tells its wonder-
ful secrets, seeing glory in the sunset, feel-
ing peace in the moonlight and intuitively
understanding the melody of birds.
	Like the chords of a finely strung instru-
ment is his soul. A rough wind jars its
music; an unskilled hand produces discord
which the careless never heed, yet to the
mind so delicately attuned a rude shock is
ever the result. The poet is also a dream-
er. The fleecy clouds piled high up in the
heavens are castles to him, wherein dwell
the children of his fancy. Sometimes they
sail away in waters deep and blue; some-
times climbing the shining hills which but
reflect the glories of the City Golden; some-
times as swans sailing on and on over the
rippling waves of a great sea, till low down
the horizon they are lost to view where all
things seem to end.
	Such a beautiful mind was Sarah E.
Carmichael’s. Born in Long Island, but
early coming to Utah when only a few scat-
tered houses marked the site of its present
principal city. In the lowly walks of life,
education but limited, to her inspired soul
the Bible was an open book, its lore her de-
light, even as the sky so richly painted
with varying sunsets, reflecting over the
Great Salt Lake like the glory of burning
worlds hanging high over the mountains,
the changing panorama fading away, the
gorgeous amber and gold, to paler, softer
tints as the day-god sinks to rest where the
line of water and sky meets. A throb of dis-
appointment falls coldly on the heart that
sight can go no farther. A child of Nature
she read from her wonderful book, under-
standing her secret laws intuitively, know-
ingeven more than she taught her.
	She needed not to go to Switzerland to
see the majesty of God displayed in her
wondrous snow-clad mountains, her wild
scenery, her ravishing sunsets. No! as a
child she accompanied her parents in a pro-
saic way across the wild plains and rugged
mountains, that here her poetical soul might
see and feel the glories so famed in that far
of land. Like an imprisoned bird regaining
its freedom are her bursts of song; deep,
well nigh unutterable her sympathy; and
the spirit of prophecy falls heavy on her
heart, as the clouds of the future, drawn
slightly aside, the stern hand of Fate re-
veals a dark river on whose banks she cries
for a prayer, that her boat may be safely
guided over its broad bosom.
	As her years increased so was she shy
and deeply sensitive. Out of tune with
her surroundings, not harmonious with her
family, to whom she belonged only by
birth, this child of thought sighed for the
companionship that she had never known.
	At the age of eighteen she began sending
some of her verses to the Deseret News for
publication. At first the genuineness was
doubted; people wondered that so gifted a
writer lived among them, yet to them un-
known. Friends began to gather around
her, and she was sometimes spoken of as
the “Lily of the Valley.” Among others
her songs touched the heart of Dr. William-
son who was stationed here as an army sur-
geon, and from a feeling of interest

[Column 2]
bloomed the beautiful flower of love. They
plighted their vows at the altar in 1867,
against much kindly advice from the friends
of both.
	In 1866 while they were dreaming their
love dreams, some of the doctor’s friends
and admirers of the poetess collected and
published a few of her choicest poems, a
copy of which has been read by the writer.
	It was fondly hoped by her friends that
under these new and happy conditions her
songs would soar higher, grander, purer
and be as much more beautiful as heaven is
than earth.
	But alas! for dreams of fame or love!
This brilliant and gifted mind went out
even as a lamp to utter darkness. The
surging, dark river had engulphed it! And
oh, sad is the spectacle of a loved one living
yet dead.
	The sorrowing husband of a year accept-
ed with resignation the blank life stretching
out before him; his brightest hope could find
no fruition this side of the grave. And his
life became like a beautiful poem telling of
devotion, patience, long watching and soli-
tary prayer. All earthly power was brought
to aid in her restoration, but to no avail.
By his side he decided she should remain,
under his own care. So for twenty years,
and even till he was called to cross the
bright river of which she wrote, he was
true to his charge. Some of their dreams
were realized. A wedding trip to Ohio,
then a short visit to California, whose beau-
ties enchanted her and she wrote,

Cheer for the queen of the Western wave!
			California!
Where the sunbeams walk on a golden pave,
And the moonlight hides in a silver cave,
			California!
Where the day that comes to this land of ours.
Finds the brightest gems and the rarest flowers,
Where the lingering day when it must depart,
Leaves the last red pulse of a broken heart,
			California!
	This visit over then to their home his
thoughtful love had provided for her where
she still lives, never knowing that the great
love of a lifetime still burning on its altar
has gone forever from earth, leaving her a
widow who knows not of her great loss.
	His was a grand and noble nature. Lov-
ing little children dearly he made them his
friends, always speaking so kindly to them.
Thus I remember him in the Long Ago.
	One of her friends, Mary V. Young, who
also was my friend and has herself long
since crossed over the river, told me the sad
story, pointing out to me the house where
Miss Carmichael passed her girlhood days.
Often we spoke of her, musing over the
wreck of such a promising life. After her
husband’s death the last poem written by
his gifted wife was found pinned over the
heart whose weary beatings were soothed at
last.
	To know no loss, no pain, no hope, such
is her life. Yea, the ways of God are in-
scrutable and past finding out; but the light
of eternity will reveal the secrets, the de-
signs and the conditions of this life.
	I would that here she might sing a new
song; and I fancy that over on the other
shore she will change the words of the old
poem for new ones and say,

Down by the river,
The bright flowing river,
	That flows to eternity’s sea;
I kneel to the Giver,
To God the Good Giver
	Whose love is ever o’er me.

[Column 3]
Not cold is it, nor dark is it,
But glad as my heart it is—
	Swift flowing river sublime—
Many ships come over it,
Gladly sail over it— 
	This strange, sad river of time.

Now down by the riverside
The golden sand riverside
	Thank God for my life and me!
You have prayed for us, prayed for us
And solemnly said for us
	“God guides them safe over the sea.”

Calm is the rivertide
The bright, golden rivertide
	That shall give my lover to me.

O’er the wide river
The cold rolling river
	That ever flows on to the sea,
I shall greet my fond lover
My true fond lover,
	Who ever is waiting for me.

And over the river
The smooth flowing river
	Where my lover is waiting for me, 
We’ll praise the Good Giver,
Our God the Good Giver
	Through ages unknown of eternity.

	It is to be regretted that her book has
gone out of print. The Stolen Sunbeam,
The Wounded Bird, Faith, President
Lincoln’s Funeral, with California are
among her gems.
			LYDIA D. ALDER.
	December, 1898.


TRIENNIAL OF NATIONAL COUNCIL

	The National Council of Women of the
United States will hold its triennial in
Washington, D. C., at the Universalist
church, corner of G. and Tenth streets,
meetings commencing February 12 to 18,
1899. There will be ten public sessions
and two very important business meetings,
besides Sunday services.
	At this triennial of the National Council
new officers will be elected for the next
term of three years, and the subject of the
International Council in London, England.
which is to be held the last week in June
of this year, will be an important feature of
the work to be considered.
	The National Council of Women of the
United States is composed of the great organ-
izations of women in the United States and
naturally such organized membership makes
the council a powerful agent in any work it
undertakes for the good of the country.
	Ladies intending to visit Washington
during the winter should go down in time
to attend the meetings of the triennial of
the council.


Gov. Roosevelt has ridden rough-shod
over the susceptibilities of the New York
“Antis.” This is the first time the Governor
of New York has recommended woman suf-
frage in his message, but in Massachusetts
it has been a frequent occurrence. Secre-
tary of the Navy, Long, was Governor of
Massachusetts for several terms and always 
recommended woman suffrage in his mes-
sage to the Legislature. Among other Mass-
achusetts Governors who have done so
were Govs. Claflin, Washburn, Talbot,
Butler, Ames and Greenhalge. These
gubernatorial recommendations do not have
much influence on the action of the Legis-
lature but they call attention to the subject
and stir up much wholesome discussion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $S2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY JANUARY 15, 1899.


[Column 1]
WOMEN IN THE LEGISLATURE.

	The Legislature of Utah convened in the
City and County Building on Monday,
January 9. Its members are nearly all
Democrats, in fact all who have been elec-
ted from this county. It is a matter of un-
favorable comment here and elsewhere that
only one woman should have been elected
this term. Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon in
the Senate was elected two years ago and
was fortunately “a hold over.”
	It is strange and regrettable that in a
state where there are nearly or quite as
many women voters as men, that so few
were nominated. It proves how strong the
old traditions and prejudices are against wo-
men in public life.
	At any rate women do not congregate up-
on the corners of the streets and other con-
spicuous places to talk politics and bet on
elections or nominations. The two women
who are at present members, are both very
capable, conscientious and well educated,
and know something of Utah and its needs.
They are equal in intelligence to the men;
perhaps some members who have been in
several successive Legislatures may be a
little better versed in technicalities, but
in the opinion of the writer these ladies
know enough of Parliamentary usage to
preside over the House or the Senate and
would give more grace and as much dig-
nity to the office. Meanwhile we shall see
what comes to pass. The selection of a
United States Senator will be a problem
not easily solved where there are so many
candidates; and it maybe a little difficult to
choose from the number, five already and
“a dark horse” in the background, but
women as a rule have quick perception
and are gifted with intuition and will most
likely make as few mistakes as men (Heaven
preserve them from making more.) At
any rate the trial is being made in the suf-
frage states, though hardly a fair beginning
with so small a number. The women who
have the ballot should not hesitate to begin
at the beginning and attend the primary of
their own ward or district in sufficient num-
bers to make themselves a power and do
some of the nominating, and until they
have courage to do this the cause will not
have very great impetus.
	The “eternal womanly” so much praised
deters women from making very rapid
strides towards a reformation in politics.
As if it were not womanly and dignified in
any case to try and better the conditions of

[Column 2]
the city, county or state where one resides!
Faith without works when one is surround-
ed with dangers that threaten destruction,
is not likely to be very efficient.
	If a turbulent stream of muddy water
were leaping and raging in one’s onward
way one would not hesitate to strike out
boldly to prevent its further progress, in
whatever manner seemed possible. The
women of today who have agitated the 
rights of the ballot see dark clouds in
the horizon of the future, in fact the turbu-
lent stream of immorality is making tremen-
dous strides, shut one’s eyes to the fact as
one may. And all this work cannot be ac-
complished at the fireside, where the found-
ations are laid. Mothers teach virtue, hon-
esty, integrity and uprightness in the home;
the boy or youth goes out into society and
into the wide, wide world and what hap-
pens? Many broken-hearted mothers
know. It is not perhaps possible to have
an ideal civilization with all the adverse in-
fluences of the age to combat with, but it is
possible that better laws and their enforce-
ment might be beneficial, and certainly the
experiment is worth trying. Women have
ideas of matters in business and domestic
life that are helpful and acceptable to men,
why may they not have practical ideas of
government and law-making? And they
are not asking for the kingdom nor for the
whole commonwealth, only to share in the
struggles for right and partake of its
benefits.
	Women are told by “the lords of crea-
tion” to be domestic and submissive like
their grandmothers in the past, but they
need to be reminded there were women
in the past whose names are handed down
in history as illustrations, who rebelled
against the injustice of the laws and condi-
tions as their descendants do in the present
day.
	Read the early history of New England
and you find many expressions of determined
opposition to the existing laws. The moth-
ers of the country surely have some rights
that should be recognized more than they
have been in the past. Abagail Adams of
revolutionary fame, in writing to her hus-
band upon this subject “even threatened to
foment rebellion unless the rights of her
sex were secured, and declared women
wouid not hold themselves bound to obey
any laws in which they had no voice or rep-
resentation.”
	It is true women have influence in many
directions, and yet the ballot is more potent
still, for it means power. It is not expect-
ed that woman’s ballot alone can revolution-
ze the country, but the exercise of suffrage
in the hands of the best men and best wo-
men must of necessity produce a manifest
difference and a decided change a few gen-
erations hence, or perchance sooner; at any
rate it is pleasant to hope so. But it will
take moral courage to stand for the highest
ideals in government, though one cannot
but believe it helps even to work for better
conditions, though defeat and not success
may often be the result, eventually the
right will triumph if persistent warfare
against wrong doing is waged and main-
tained.
	The women of these intermountain states
are privileged as no other women are, and
appreciating this they should also accept
the responsibilities it implies, and carry the
burden if such it be, hopefully and march
on to victory—the triumph of right over
wrong, light over darkness better, condi-

[Column 3]
tions for the masses and a more enlightened
humanity.


TENDENCIES OF THE AGE.

	There never was a time in any age of the
world when there was such a tendency to
higher education and in every direction to-
wards progress and development along the
lines of activity, practical, mental, scienti-
fic and inventive in many, and indeed in al-
most all parts of the world, as at the present.
One must be very wide awake to keep in-
formed even on the lines that lie most in
one’s own practical way of thinking and
doing.
	There is less awakening in the spiritual
life of the people, the tendency being more
material than otherwise; the money ques-
tion has seemingly swallowed up much of
the religious nature of the world at large.
Wealth more than aught else is fast be-
coming, if it has not already, the most
potent influence in even religious circles.
Indeed money may be called the passion of
the age as well as the ruling power, and
“more’s the pity, and pity ’tis that it is so.”
	To be sure money or some exchange of
value or barter is necessary in this worka-
day world, yet when men and women have
this morbid craving for money, it seems to
absorb every wholesome element in one’s
nature and change the entire character.
	If a restraining influence could be
brought to bear upon character thro’ the
higher thought and education of which we
hear so much, that would tend to modifi-
cation in this direction, what a different
world this would be. Out of all the soci-
eties and organizations for information and
for equalizing conditions there seems no
combined force strong enough as yet to
overthrow the money power. Are the peo-
ple about to succumb to a materialism that
will tend to degrade and despoil the inheri-
tance of virtue and true nobility that has
been the proud boast of American civiliza-
tion?
	To guard against the spirit of extrava-
gance and luxurious living, even though
one has the wherewith to obtain it, is in-
deed commendable, especially if the means
is used to build up industries that will give
employment to the workers who are com-
pelled to live by wages, or salaries as the
case may be.
	Brigham Young’s ideas in this respect-
were almost ideal. To live simply and to
devote means to fostering industries that
would build up the community and lay a
foundation for generations yet to come or the
emigrants from other countries, that all
might have something to do.
	It is appalling to contemplate the future
of young people reared in indolence and
luxury, accustomed to the gratification of
every want, and without thought of any of
the sober realities of life; living for pleas-
ure and vanity. That ever work should be
considered degrading is a mistake. That
all are not adapted to the same sort of work
is true, and parents should not (in our
opinion) compel children to follow a pur-
suit that is particularly distasteful. But if
there could be something of a return to
agricultural pursuits in this Western land
it would be a blessing. Every farmer
might be a gentleman; subduing the earth 
is a commandment and there is yet much to
be done in this direction. What are our
boys to do when they are grown? is a
question often asked and seldom satis-


[Column 1]
factorily answered. Those who strike out
into new territory and take up new land
making homes by dint of hard labor and
grow up with the community become in
many instances not only founders of cities
and towns, but often if capable and reliable
are chosen to fill important positions of
trust and emolument.
	Speaking of farmers as gentlemen, a cir-
cumstance came under the notice of the
writer which illustrates the fact. Visiting
in New England at a country farm house a
census taker called one morning to make
inquiries for his report. Among other
questions was the one curtly put, “What is
your occupation?” “A gentleman farmer,”
was the reply. “A gentleman farmer!”
said the interlocuter as he surveyed the
man from head to foot, “can’t I give you
some other title?” “No sir,” was the
only answer. Evidently being satisfied he
would get no further information he left
the house.
	Afterwards Mr. H. explained that every
clerk or wage-earner was of the opinion
that men who tilled the ground or were
engaged in agricultural pursuits could not
be classed as gentlemen; and it gave me
new thoughts upon the subject. Mr. H.
had been a Prof. of mathematics, a civil
engineer, had even been a member of the
Legislature of his state, but preferred in
his later years to retire to his country farm
and discard all other pursuits. Neverthe-
less he still intended to be considered a
gentleman by such young men as the one
referred to, and a gentleman he was indeed
though he did more actual work on his own
farm than half a dozen hired men, for in
these days some of the laboring men have
all flocked to the cities and large towns. A
striking contrast to the New England of
half a century ago.
	It is a well known fact that the greatest
men America has produced have been
raised upon a farm and accustomed to the
hard work of the farmer’s son. To be a
land owner was the pride and ambition of
the early settlers of our country.
	Homes of their own for the common peo-
ple was the sentiment Brigham Young
tried to inculcate and practically to demon-
strate in these mountain vales during the
period of the early settlement here. Who
does not know that the home is the centre
from which springs the best in life and in
government. Not from hotels and board-
ing houses, nor from transient occupancy
of "houses for rent”—whether they are
spacious mansions or neat cottages or
miserable hovels. The home which is our
own is the ideal one, the children enshrine
it in their memory, “the old home,” and
“childhood’s home,” are subjects for the
poets. If every young man in the com-
munity would strive for a home of his own,
how much it would do towards a better and
more permanent standing in the welfare of
the state.
	The writer can never forget with what
laudable pride she spoke upon the subject
during her first visit to Washington twenty
years ago. And how the ladies of the Con-
vention listened to women owning their
own homes and paying their own taxes.
The president of the United States himself
listened carefully to the statement, and his
gentle and amiable wife, how interested
she felt in this simple fact. But, alas, how
different, now!
	Simplicity of living is a virtue. Not
miserliness, but true economy which so
few people in this age seem to practice.

[Column 2]
Plain living is healthful and happifying.
There is, there must be room somewhere
for everybody to live honestly and respec-
tably; better far to launch out into new
fields and begin at the foundation than to
fight ones way in the great cities along the
crowded thoroughfares, where there are
hundreds of applicant with whom to com-
pete.
	The tendency to “single blessedness,” so
miscalled, instead of family life, is on the
increase and has reached even to these val-
leys. It is injurious to manhood and wo-
manhood and contrary to the laws of nature
and of God. “Multiply and replenish the
earth” is the first commandment given to
man in the Holy Scriptures, and has never
been countermanded. The inclination to
postpone marriage until late in life or alto-
gether is a growing evil, and should be dep-
recated certainly among Latter-day Saints.
That girls are extravagant and require
liberal settlements beforehand is scarcely a
good excuse. What girls and women long
for most and look forward to is love. And
honorable marriage with true love is what
the girls have a right to expect, and that
makes up for lack of this world’s goods.
“Love in a cottage” is where contentment
abides much more securely and far more
generally than in a palace, the old-fash-
ioned poet “Cotton” writes,

Though fools spurn Hymen’s gentle powers,
We, who improved is golden hours,
	By sweet experience know,
That marriage, rightly understood,
Gives to the tender and the good,
	A paradise below.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We have been shown today the drawing
for a very artistic map of the the pioneer
route of the Mormon people journeying
from the city of Nauvoo to the valley of
the Great Basin. The work is to be litho-
graphed and placed upon the market. It
will be suitable for every home and for
public buildings. A pocket edition is also
to be prepared and issued.
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also
individual subscribers indebted for the
paper are urgently requested to settle all
old accounts at the earliest date possible.
This becomes an absolute necessity on ac-
count of the change that takes place in the
management of the Deseret Evening News.
The “Exponent” will not be sent to any
subscriber after January 1899, unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due, in
addition to the printed matter. 
	One of the notable features of the past
year, 1898, and one in which women are
greatly interested is the document of the
Czar of Russia toward a proposed treaty
for universal peace, and coming as it did
from the most autocratic of rulers it does
seem indicative of a world-wide movement
for the arbitration of all serious difficulties
among nations, and a general tendency to-
wards the amicable settlement of hostilities,
and finally the result may be a ceasation of
warfare altogether, for which good time
coming all who desire the true welfare of
humanity should be grateful.
	The clubs of Salt Lake City have com-
bined their efforts and have succeeded in
getting started a “Utah Free Traveling

[Column 2]
Library.” It is one of the best philan-
thropic, educational benefits that could
come to those living in isolated communi-
ties where good books are not obtainable.
All the clubs in the Federation are expected
to contribute their quota of money and of
books. The work is in the hands of a
committee of ladies, of which Mrs. Helen
D. Moore is chairman.
	Woman’s Work, is a Southern monthly
magazine published in Montgomery, Ala-
bama, business manager, Evelyn Fitz-
patrick. The journal aims to disseminate
the best ideas of club women. It is being
ably conducted and promises, if one can
judge from the few numbers that have been
issued, to fill a void in the South, where
few women have as yet entered into the
spirit of club work that is permeating the
whole country. We are grateful to Wo-
man’s Work for mentioning the “Exponent”
and in connection with it the silk industry
in Utah. May Woman’s Work become a
power for good in the land, and the women
of all sections join hands and co-operate for
the good of all, casting aside the geographi-
cal lines of distinction, until by custom they
shall become obliterated in mind.
	Mrs. Hannah J. Bailey of Winthrop
Centre, Maine, is en route to California and
will pay Salt Lake a visit on her return trip
in March. Mrs. Bailey is the treasurer of
the National Council of Women of the
United States, and (of course) one of the
General Board of that great society to
which the National W. R. S. and the Y.L.
N. M. I. A. are connected. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor both
being vice presidents of the council by vir-
tue of their positions as presidents of these
National associations. Mrs Bailey is a wo-
man of great executive ability, and will
find a loving welcome in our city from the 
ladies who have such pleasant remembran-
ces of her genial manner and kindly face.
Mrs. Bailey manages a large manufactur-
ing business in Maine of which her husband
was proprietor previous to his decease a
few years ago; she is also superintendent
of the World’s W. C. T. U. and associated
in other organizations of public interest.
We trust her brief stay among us will be
a pleasant leaf in her wayside notes of her
journey from the coast.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	The Stake secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety in all the several Stakes of Zion and of
missions or branches of the Relief Society
where Stakes are not organized, are hereby
requested to send statistical and financial re-
ports for the entire year of 1898, to the
general secretary, room 208 Templeton 
building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


STATE SOCIETY D. AND R.

	A State Society of Utah of the Daughters
of the Revolution was organized on Wed-
nesday, November 16, 1898, in the office of 
the “Woman’s Exponent,” room 208,
Templeton building, in this city. The 
names of State officers elected were pub-
lished in our columes in the issue of Dec-
ember 1, 1898.
	On Friday December 16, the famous Bos-
ton Tea Party day, a meeting was held at
the residence of Mrs. Maria V. Dougall,


where a suitable and interesting program
for the occasion was successfully carried
out. Light refreshments were daintily
served to the D. R. and guests.
	Friday, January 6, there was a meeting
at the residence of Hon. Alice S. M. Horne,
member of the House of Representatives of
the State Legislature of Utah now in ses-
sion, but owing to adverse circumstances
the adoption of the Constitution was post-
poned, also the reading of the inaugural
address of the State Regent, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	Monday, January 16, the D. R. Society
met in the Templeton and the regent gave
her address and the Constitution was unani-
mously adopted. A State Council was
appointed, and committees on Press and
Printing and Decoration.
	The members of the Council are Mrs.
Carlie Young Cannon, Mrs. Isabel M.
Whitney Sears, Mrs. J. P. Murdock Farns-
worth, Mrs. Sarah Farr Smith, Mrs. Myra
Young Rossiter, Mrs. Ella Wilcox Hyde.
COMMITTEE ON PRESS.
	Mrs. Alice S. M. Horne, Miss Catharine
Wells, Miss Claire Clawson.
ON DECORATION.
	Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie, Miss Mabelle
Snow, Mrs. Ella Wilcox Hyde.
	The next meeting of the society will be
held in the Templeton, room 208, on Fri-
day, February 16, at 3 p. m., when busi-
ness pertaining to the annual meeting will
be transacted, and it is desirable all members
should be present and participate in the pro-
ceedings. It is the intention of the society
to incorporate shortly under the laws of the
State.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOLDEN WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.

 “Marriage is the life-long miracle.
The self begetting wonder daily fresh.”

	On Friday evening, Dec. 30, 1898, a
grand programme and picnic party was
given in the ward hall to do honor to
Brother Richard R. and Jane C. Birkbeck
on the fiftieth anniversary of their wedding
day. It was an impromptu affair, but,
however, a great number of guests assem-
bled to enjoy themselves with the aged and
highly respected couple. Numerous selec-
tions were rendered, both musical and
otherwise, and after all had feasted sumptu-
ously a great deal was gathered up and dis-
tributed to the poor the next day. All
who took part proclaimed it one of the best
parties of the kind ever given in Cedar City.
Grandma Birkbeck, as she is known by all
the young people, although in her seventy-
seventh year was on nearly every floor, and
seemed to dance as sprightly as many a
woman scores of years her junior. During
the festivities a purse was made up and
something over twenty dollars was presen-
ted to the honored couple with the compli-
ments and best wishes of all present.
	Though never having enjoyed the great
and glorious blessing of children, yet they
are loved and respected by all who know
them and have caused many a ray of sun-
shine to penetrate where all seemed dark-
ness, and made hearts beat with renewed
hope and gladness where sadness reigned
supreme. Many are the homes that have
been made happy by their visits to the sick
room.
	Sister Birkbeck has filled various positions


in the Relief Society, and at present holds
the office of Stake treasurer.
Respectfully, 
	VIOLET URIE,
		R. S. Sec., Cedar City.

“O, the music and beauty oft lose their worth,
When one heart only joys in their smile;
But the union of hearts gives that pleasure its
	birth,
Which beams on the darkest and coldest of
	earth
Like the sun on her own chosen isle;
It gives to the fireside of winter, the light,
The glow and the glitter of spring—
O, sweet are the hours when the fond hearts
	unite,
As softly the years in their innocent flight
Glide away on a motionless wing.”

	The “Exponent” adds hearty congratu-
lations, and ardent wishes for the eternal
future of such a union. May all that truest
love could ask for this venerable couple be
theirs, of health, happiness, prosperity and
an abundance of love in this world, and
these with the hope in their souls of a
glorious resurrection of lives throughout
the endless ages of eternity is the desire of
the writer.—E. B. W.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Believing our sisters would like to know
what the Relief Society sisters are doing in
far off Arizona, I will give you a short ac-
count.
	Our conference convened on Dec. 3, 1898,
President Elizabeth Layton presiding.
There were present of the priesthood
Apostle Abraham O. Woodruff, President
Andrew Kimball, Counselors William D.
Johnson and Charles M. Layton.
	The speakers touched on many impor-
tant subjects, viz. storing of grain, building
a Stake granary, as we have on hand 995
bushels of grain; on tithing, fast donations,
supporting the Church school, necessity of
attending to prayers, looking after the poor
and needy, comforting the widows and or-
phans.
	It was decided that on the evening of
Dec. 6, we have a Stake reunion in
the form of a dance and repast. There
were over three hundred present and all
partook of a sumptuous supper. Apostle
Abraham O. Woodruff and Elder Seymour
B. Young were present to add to the dig-
nity of the occasion. The dancing began
at seven p. m., and closed at twelve p. m.
The proceeds of the party which were
$65.00 were used to defray the expenses of
two sisters who were in Salt Lake City
taking a course in obstetrics under Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp.
	The health of the people in general is
good, though this has been the coldest
winter witnessed in the last fifteen years.
The weather at present is delightful.
		SELENA PHILLIPS, Stake Sec.
	Thatcher, Ariz., Jan. 7, 1899.
MURRAY BRANCH, S. C. WARD.
	The annual meeting of the Murray branch
of South Cottonwood ward Relief Society
was held in the Scandinavian hall, Oct. 28,
1898, President Margaret Carruth presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Now let us
rejoice,” etc. Prayer by Bishop J. S.
Rawlins. Singing “How firm a founda-
tion.” Minutes of the previous annual

[Column 2]
meeting read and approved  The annual
report was read and accepted.
	President M. I. Horne of Salt Lake
Stake spoke words of cheer and comfort to
the sisters and bore a strong testimony to
the truth of the Latter-day work; encour-
aged us also to be diligent in our duties,
look after the poor, comfort the sick, and
for the mothers to watch over their children
and teach them to be pure and virtuous.
Spoke on the signs of the times. Asked
the Lord to bless the sisters.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon urged the
sisters to be faithful in attending their
meetings, said it was both a duty and a
pleasure, and to be punctual in meeting
at the time appointed, that the angels might
be waiting Spoke also upon humility and
kindness, to forgive each other. Said let
us try and bear our trials and be thankful
to the Lord that we have a place with His
people.
	President Pixton of Taylorsville was
glad that she was a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ and asked the Lord to bless
all the Relief Society. Told the sisters to
attend to their meetings and they would
get their reward.
	President Rawlins of the South Cotton-
wood ward Relief Society said she desired
to continue faithful in this great work, and
told the sisters to prepare for an eternal ex-
stence.
	Bishop Joseph S. Rawlins and Brother
Charles Holm thanked the president for in-
viting them to speak. In their remarks
they encouraged the sisters in their good
work, and stated that the Relief Society
was a great aid in assisting them in taking
care of the poor.
	President Carruth spoke of the newness
of the society, knew the sisters were good
and faithful in the society work. Thanked
the brethren and sisters for meeting with us.
	Singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Benediction by Brother Charles
Holm.
		MARGARET CARRUTH, Pres.
SANDWICH ISLANDS.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Hawaiian mission held in the Laie
meeting house on Saturday morning, Oct.
8, 1898.
	Promptly at 9:30 the Hawaiian sisters,
together with the sisters from Zion, formed
in line and marched to the meeting house.
Meeting commenced at 10 a. m., President
Alice R. Woolley presiding. With her on
the stand were her assistants, Elizabeth C.
Williams, Jennie P. Musser, Ellen C. Cole,
Anna Kaulukou and Kapu Kou. Meeting
opened with singing “Joy to the world.”
Prayer by Luukia Pono. Singing on page
200 of the Hawaiian hymn book. Minutes
of the previous April conference read and
approved.
	President Alice R. Woolley spoke a few
words of welcome and encouragement, and
felt thankful to our Father in heaven for
His great blessings to us, that we were per-
mitted to meet together again under such
favorable circumstances, and hoped the
spirit of the Lord would be with us that we
may be able to receive the necessary instruc-
tions that would be for our best good at the
present time. Felt to rejoice greatly in the
work of God and urged all to be faithful
and seek diligently for the spirit of the
Lord that it may be our constant companion.
	Sister Kapo Kou spoke on the benefits of
the Relief Society and the purpose for
which it was instituted.


[Column 1]
	The Hawaiian society was then represen-
ted by one of its officers. “The Lord is my
light” was sung very nicely by the Misses
Adalade and Madaline Fernandez.
	Sister Kaulukou gave a favorable and in-
teresting report of the work done in com-
pany with Sister Garff on the island of
Maui, and spoke of the Relief Society as or-
ganized by Joseph Smith. An encourag-
ing report of Laie society was given by
Sister Nainoa.
	Sister Kekuku and daughter sang "O,
my Father,” with pleasing effect. Sister
Annie Kou reported her labors in company
with Sister Kapili on the island of Hawaii,
spoke of the great interest that was taken
in some of the branches of that island.
	Sister Jennie Mnsser encouraged all to
remain steadfast in the work of God, and to
appreciate His blessings to us here on earth.
	Alemai was represented by the president
of the branch. Conference adjourned until
one o’clock in the afternoon. Singing from
the Hawaiian hymn book. Benediction by
Sister Nakoi.
	Afternoon session: Singing by the
Hawaiian choir “Truth has risen.” Pray-
er by Sister Kamaka Eleakala. Singing
"Hail to the brightness,” etc. Favorable
reports were given from eight branches of
the society of this and the adjacent islands,
all were in a favorable condition.
	Kekuewa Nakuaau spoke on the restora-
tion of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Sister
Minerva Fernandez gave a biographical
sketch of President Wilford Woodruff.
	Sister Cole said we had met to gain spirit-
ual strength. We all have much work to
perform. Woman’s mission here on earth
is a great one, her influence is great and
therefore all should try and exert an in-
fluence for good. Mothers should teach
their children the Gospel and set worthy
examples before them at all times. Her re-
marks were interpreted by Elder J. B.
Hooper.
	Sister Hattie Davis reported her labors in
connection with Sister Woolley on the is-
land of Kauai, the majority of the branches
of the society on that island were in a favor-
able condition.
	Sister Elizabeth C. Williams expressed
her pleasure in meeting in the Relief Soci-
ety conference, and exhorted all to search
the scriptures for light, for we cannot any
of us be saved in ignorance. Encouraged
the sisters to attend to their duties and put
themselves in a position that they can
claim the blessings that are promised unto
the faithful.
	The general officers of the Relief Society
of Zion and of the Hawaiian mission were
presented and unanimously sustained.
	President Samuel E. Woolley was pleased
with the good instructions that had been
given, and hoped we would make good use
of them in the future. Encouraged all to
continue in the good work.
	President Alice R. Woolley felt very
much gratified with the meetings today,
knew that the spirit of the Lord had been
with us for we had had a time of rejoicing
together. Spoke of her visit to the island
of Kauai, felt encouraged with the pro-
gress the sisters were making there. En-
couraged the young ladies to join the Re-
lief Society and assist in rolling on the
great work of God.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing from the Hawaiian hymn book.
Benediction by Elder Lewis R. Jenkins.

	Thinking perhaps that a few words

[Column 2]
from the missionary sisters on these islands
would be of interest to the readers of the
“Exponent,” we will endeavor to give a
brief sketch of our labors.
	There are at present six sisters laboring
in the Hawaiian mission, and we are striv-
ing in our weak way to accomplish the
purpose for which we were sent. The Lord
has greatly blessed us while laboring in
these lands and we are thankful that we are
able to spend a portion of our time in His
vineyard, in striving to raise the people to a
higher plane of morality. Our labors con-
sist in taking care of the Mission Home,
working in the Relief Society, Sunday
School, Mutual Improvement Association,
Primary Association; also teaching the
children music. We are striving to ac-
quire the Hawaiian language and feel
grateful that the Lord has blessed us with a
portion of it. Peace and contentment is in
our midst and at the dawning of another
new year everything seems to be in a pros-
perous condition.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and
the cause of truth we are,
	Your colaborers[-]
ELIZABETH C. WILLIAMS, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM SANTA ROSA.

	I have taken the “Exponent” from the
beginning of its existence, and I shall be
glad to know how much is due.
	By a letter received today I learn of the
death of Sister Staines, Brother Goddard
and Brother C. M. C[-]nnon. The latter I
did not know personally, but presume he
is a young man. The other two I can re-
joice to know that like our dear Sarah M.
Kimball they are freed from the suffering
of this mortal body.
	I seem to hear the echo of the Halleujah!
The hearty, joyous welcome! The shouts
of victory of the tried and true as they pass
one by one to the realms of eternal bliss.
	I sincerely trust that every one will put
hes shoulder to the wheel and save the
friend of woman, the dear “Exponent”
from shipwreck from the carelessness of its
officers, or the subordination of its crew.
	I have a large chest full of “Exponents”
which I hope to have bouud some day.
Of course there are many other choice selec-
tions and letters there, too, which I hope to
haul over and glean from if life holds out
and other cares do not accumulate.
	They may spoil me here, as grandma’s
are scarce and all hands are anxious to help
make my stay pleasant, and profitable to
themselves from the questions asked.
	I very much regret that there is not a
branch of our Church here, but I am
pleased to find friends whom I met long
ago who have a spirit of inquiry, and have
called to welcome me back again.
	President Woodruff must have been in-
spired when he presented Bancroft’s His-
story of Utah to the free library of Califor-
nia. It seems like an arrow of light
through the thick darkness, and has the
effect of dispelling the ignorance of many
people and their sympathies are aroused
for the injustices done our people, how far
this extends I do not know as all classes are
not in a condition to reach this knowledge;
but I find that those who are feel that this
is a reliable work.
	Trusting that you may receive timely
aid, I remain,
			Your loving sister, 
				LUCY W. KIMBALL


GONE TO REST.

	Sister Sarah Ann Sweet and Rawle died Dec.
12th, 1898, the cause of death being general
debili[-]y, she was born in Bristol, England July
20th, 1822. She was the mother of nine children,
three of whom survive her, she leaves a husband
eighty-four years old, one son and five daughters,
thirty-two grand-children and five great grand-
children to mourn her loss She was correspond-
ing secretary of the Morgan Stake Relief Society
twenty years, and secretary of South Morgan
Ward ninteen years; both offices she held at the
same time and filled them with honor. She died
firm in the Gospel with the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
				Your Sister in the Gospel,
							LYDIA RICH.
	MORGAN, Dec. 19th, 1898.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas our Father in Heaven has seen fit in
His Wisdom to call home the spirit of our worthy
and beloved sister Marie Olsen, who was born
August 9th, 1831, in Store, Lima, Veile, Amt. Den-
mark. We feel to give a few items of her life and
labors. Sister Olsen embraced the Gospel in the
old country, and emigrated to Utah in 1853, leav-
ing a good home and pleasant surroundings for
her religion. She passed through the hardships
incident to settlers in Utah at that early date,
settling first in Salt Lake City for a short time,
from there moving to Sanpete Co. where she
resided for many years, until the Castle Valley
Country began to be settled, when h[-]r husband
and herself were called to move to Castle Dale,
Emery Co., where she remained until death re-
lieved her of that dreadful disease, dropsy,
September 5th, 1898. She was President of the
Castle Dale Relief Society about four years.
	Resolved, that we the members of the Castle
Dale Relief Society hold in grateful remembrance
t[-]e aid she exercised in our Relief Society by
service contribution and counsel.
	Resolved, that we strive to hold fast to the
sacred covenants made with the Lord to the end,
and acknowledge his hand in all things as did
Sister Olsen.
	Resolved, that one copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved husband, one be placed on
the Relief Society Record and one be sent to the
“Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
			CAROLINE LARSON, Prest.
			KATHINKA ANDERSON, Sec.


REORGANIZATION.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City, Dec. 13, 1898,
President Susannah P. Booth presiding.
Singing “Know this, that every soul is
free.” Prayer by President Mary Jansen.
Singing “Sweet is the work my God, my
King.” Minutes were read and approved.
	Sister Theone Michelson reported the
Scandinavian society, said, “We can com-
fort and strengthen one another when we
possess the right spirit.” Sister Charlotte
Boden of the 2nd ward said, “We are all
laborers in the same cause. therefore, we
trust one another. I feel proud to be one
with such good sisters.”
	Sister Christina Jensen of Mantua said,
“We have buried one of our most faithful
sisters lately and one last winter, we miss
them so much. I think we couid not get a
better president than Sister Booth.” Sister
Mary Harding of Willard said, “Let every
mother instil in her daughter’s mind to live
a pure life, obedient to those placed over
her.
	Sister Mary Watkins of the 4th ward said,
“I cannot help feeling a little lonely today.
I miss our beloved president, Sister Olivia
Widerborg, but she is happy, my only de-
sire is to live to be worthy to meet my par-
ents and friends who have passed away.
	Sister Fanny Graehl said, “Although we
miss Sister Widerborg it was right she
should go to rest and Sister Booth is just
the right one in her place. I pray the sis-
ters who are called to preside over the


[Column 1]
Stake may have our faith and prayers that
they may be comforted and able to fill their
holy calling.” Sister Annie Wixom said,
"I like to uphold the officers for I know
they need it. I have belonged to the Re-
lief Society from the beginning. I was in-
timately acquainted with Sister Morley,
Aunt Harriet and Sister Widerborg. I
think there never were three better women.
I am pleased to mention their names and
speak of their good works.
	Sister Mary Jansen of the 3rd ward said,
Sister Widerborg has left us, but I think
she has always been trying to be a true,
faithful Latter-day Saint, and her counsel-
ors were true and faithful in their calling.
There is a great deal done in the Relief
Society; we marvel at it.”
	Sister Harper of Calls Fort said, “I hope
I may live so that there may be a place for
me where those who have left us are."
President Susannah P. Booth said, “I have
great sympathy for my sisters from the
settlements trying to come here at ten
o’clock. I know the Lord will not forsake
me if I do my part, and I know He will
help my counselors if we work in unison
and love. There is just as much responsi-
bility on the members as on the officers.
May we again associate with Sister Morley,
Aunt Harriet and Sister Widerborg, those
we have loved and labored with. I wish
those present to stay to luncheon provided
by the 3rd ward.”
	Singing “Now let us rejoice." Benedic-
tion by Bishop Jensen of Bear River City.
	Afternoon session After opening exer-
cises Sister Thorne of Three Mile said, “We
are trying to do all the good we can for the
poor. I ask the Lord to help us live hum-
ble and near to Him.” Sister Sadie Han-
son said, “I feel grateful and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord that I am able to
walk to this stand.” Spoke of her serious
illness and reported Beaver Dam ward.
	Bishop Jensen of Bear Lake City said,
“I feel it quite an honor to represent our
Relief Society. I have labored together
with the sisters for a little more than seven-
teen years. It has been a labor of love,
they have always been on hand voluntarily
to assist in building up the kingdom. We
have a president eighty-two years old."
Reported the ward and said, “These sisters
have not been called by President Clawson
nor President Snow, but directly by the
Lord, and I know it, and  if they will be
faithful they will succeed.”
	President Rudger Clawson said, “I am
not very well and if it was not the first
meeting after your reorganization and other
sundry reasons, I would not have been here
today.” Counseled the Relief Society to
hold short meetings. He then presented
the officers of the Stake Board as follows:
Susannah P. Booth, president; Emilia D.
Madsen and Louisa Peters, counselors;
Annie Wixom, recording secretary; Emilia
D. Madsen, corresponding secretary; Fanny
Graehl, treasurer; Eugenie S. Pierce, assis-
tant secretary. Vote was unanimous.
	President Clawson continued: “Sister
Widerborg was a woman of great faith, she
was always in line with the priesthood, she
was very successful in her labors. The sis-
ters have a little surprise for her counselors,
Sister Wright and Sister Reese, who have
labored so faithfully. We feel to bless
them, the Lord will not forsake them, the
sisters want them to know they are remem-
bered, we will remember them. I feel to
bless them in authority of the holy priest-
hood, in the name of God."

[Column 2]
	Brother Clawson could not stop blessing
Sister Wright and Sister Reese. Sister
Mary Wright and Sister Zilla Reese were
each presented with a handsome rocking
chair as a present from the sisters of Box
Elder in acknowlegement of their labors.
	Sister Mary E. Wright said, “This sur-
prise touches a tender cord, my sisters. I
feel well in the Gospel, we have enjoyed a
feast today, the spirit of the Lord has been
here. It is well with Sister Widerborg, al-
though I miss her.” Sister Zilla Reese
said, “My brethren and sisters I feel to ap-
preciate the kindness you have shown us to-
day. I do miss Sister Widerborg because
she was so kind to me. I feel to continue
in our good labor, and pray the Lord to
bless us each and everyone.”
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen was the next
speaker. She gave vent to her appreciation
of the Relief Society. Counselor Louisa
Peters said, “When I reflect on the sisters I
am called to succeed I feel to pray that I
may follow in their footsteps.
	President Kelley said, “I believe there is
a feeling of kindness in every heart. I be-
lieve you all endorse that which has been
done here, all who do raise your hand.”
(Unanimous) “I do not feel capable of ex-
pressing my feelings. I was acquainted
with Aunt Lenora Snow Morley[-] as noble
and sweet a woman as ever lived. Then
Aunt Harriet was so energetic and interest-
ed in the Relief Society, always working
for it. Then the Lord raised up another
in Olivia Widerborg, who was just as good
as the others. Now we have a new presi-
dency and I have no doubt that they are
just as able to carry out this labor. I am-
pleased that you have honored the former
counselors, that their labors are appreciated
and their hearts are made glad, their hus-
bands’ hearts are made glad in the spirit
world, Brother Wright, Brother Reese and
Brother Harvey Pierce are rejoicing to see
their wives honored.”
	President Watkins said, “I realize the
spirit of God is here, there is a feeling of
affection and love.” Spoke of the labors
of the Relief Society, holding up the hands
of the priesthood, storing up wheat for the
time of scarcity. "What a glorious work
you are engaged in my sisters! Who can
tell the result? In your labors of love seek
the counsel of those who are placed over
you and be ready to assist these new officers
as they are ready to assist the priesthood."
	Bishop Jensen said, “I have known these
sisters who have been elected for a long
time. This is a good association and a
great blessing to us, no one knows this bet-
ter than the Bishops. I was much pleased
to see what was done for the sisters, I ap-
preciate them, I know they have earned it.
I am glad we have so many good sisters.
May we be united in doing good.”
	President S. P. Booth said, “I do not
feel capable to represent the Stake, I hope
in the spring we will be able to visit all the
settlements. I think we cannot do too
much for those who have labored so long
and so faithfully. I know the Lord will
not forsake me if I do my part. I pray the
Lord to bless you all, my sisters, with the
spirit of your calling.”
	Congregation arose and sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Brother Crawford.
EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Better not tell your neighbor your
troubles unless you are willing to listen to his.


Mrs. Alice Parker Lesser attorney at law
of Boston, Mass., has been admitted by
Judge Putnam to practise in the U. S. Dis- 
trict and Circuit Courts; also in the U. S.
District Court of Appeals.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss
Susan B Anthony have addressed an open
letter to President McKinley, asking that
suffrage may be granted to the women of
Hawaii upon the same terms as the men.
	Miss Maud Claiborne of Glenwood, Utah,
has been elected to a primary position in
the Des Moines schools at an increased
salary, with promise of a further increase.
But the Glenwood board were not willing to
let her go. She was too good a teacher to
release. From the teacher’s standpoint we
are sorry for Miss Claiborne, since such op-
portunities do not come often; but she is to
be congratulated upon the evident appreci-
ation of her work both at home and abroad.
	Mr. Edward W. Bok, editor of the Ladies
Home Journal, says: “The platform woman
has never been a credit to, but ever a blot
upon American womanhood. I make this
emphatic statement from a personal knowl-
edge of the homes which these women
leave behind when they go to their meet-
ings.” It would be interesting to know
whether young Mr. Bok was ever enter-
tained in the home of Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe, Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Mrs.
Lucy Stone, Frances E. Willard, Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Ballington
Booth, Susan B. Anthony, or any of the
most distinguished “platform women” of
the United States?


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not[-] open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD-WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1899. No 17.


CONTENTS:
	Thanks—L. L. Greene Richards. Minutes of
First Relief Society. Virgin City, Dixie—Emily
A. Strat[-]on In Memoriam. Red Cross Nurses—
Margherita Arlina Hamm. Woman’s Exp nent—
M. Rachelle Mehette. A Beautiful Response.
Perseverance at Centerville—Mary Rockwood.
Semi-Monthly Meeting—J. S. Woolley, Sec.
The Silk Worm and its Silk John Dean Obitu-
ary. Re ief Society Report. Council of Women.
	EDITORIAL:—A Wonderful Age. Triennial
National Council. Official Notice. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The New Year—Nina Winslo[-] Eck-
art. Grandmothers Treasure—M. Rock. Reflec
tions—Nina Wins ow Eckart.


THE NEW YEAR.

Tho' clouds of disappointmen
Ma g[-]ther in life's sky,
Do not despair, the sun is there,
And soon will be so bright and fair,
And then those dearest hopes of thine
Like sunlight in thy path will shine;
For now the new year brightly dawns,
The old year with its fear is gone,
	And joy awaits thee.
Look not backward with regret
To the faded year—
See, the star of hope is bright,
It will guide thee to the light,
Better days are yet in store,
Tho’ the days that are no more
Like a tender flower lay,
Folded in the heart away,
	But joys awaits thee.
NINA WINSLOW ECKART.


GRANDMOTHER’S TREASURE.

It is not o’er flashing jewels in their velvet
	beds reposing,
Stiff brocades, or priceless laces worn in
	days of long ago
That poor grannie loves to linger, when the
	day is gently closing,
When the b eeze, with softer cadence mur-
	murs rhythmical and low.
And she reads no tender phrase o’er and o’er
	with failing vision
From the batch of yellow letters safely hid-
	den from the sun;
And her hands hold no love token of that by-
	gone time elysian
When the world grew fairer for her, and her
	heart was lost and won.
But she sits amid the shadows, all alone and
	happy-hearted,
In a strained and broken voice she croons a
	tender old refrain
That she sang with fuller compass in the
	days that are departed,
As she rocks the wooden cradle where her
	children all have lain.
And the babe that ne’er grew older in the
	years in which her brothers
And her sisters men and women grew,
	smiles up in infant glee
To the face above t[-]e cradle[-] and with laugh
	and shout the others,
Sundered now by eagues of ocean, seize
	her hands and climb her knee.


And that roughly-painted cradle by her lov-
	ing heart is treasured,
And its quilt of silk[-]n patchwork is with
	love and sorrow kept
Not the crowns of king or kaiser, not a store
	of gold unmeasured,
Could part grannie from the cradle where
	her babies all have slept!
M. Rock


[Column 1]
MINUTES FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.

MASONIC HALL, NAUVOO, ILLINOIS.
Lodge Room, March 17, 1842.
	Minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society as prepared by Miss Eliza R.
Snow, from the original minutes taken at
the meeting. A preliminary meeting was
held at the residence of Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, recently deceased, at which meet-
ing Miss Eliza R. Snow was present, and it
was decided at that time to consult Presi-
dent Joseph Smith about an organization:
accordingly the meeting was called by his
appointment.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair
and Elder Willard Richards appointed secre-
tary. Meeting commenced by singing
“The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Prayer offered by President John Taylor.
	It was then moved by President Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland that
a vote be taken to know if all present were
satisfied with each person present and will-
ing to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the full privileges of the
institution about to be formed. Vote was
unanimous.
	President Joseph Smith addressed the
meeting to illustrate the objects of the soci-
ety; that the society might provoke the
brethren to good works in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects of
charity etc., to assist by correcting the mor-
als and strengthening the virtues of the
community and save the Elders the trouble
of rebuking, etc. He proposed that the sis-
ters elect a presiding officer to preside over
them and let that presiding officer choose
two counselors; that he would ordain them
and let them preside over the society just as
the Presidency preside over the Church,
and if they needed his instruction, ask him
—he would give it from time to time. “If
any other officers are needed to carry out
the designs of the institution let them be
appointed and set apart. The minutes of
your meetings will be precedents for you to
act upon.” He then suggested the propri-
ety of electing a presidency to continue in
office during good behavior, or so long as
they should fill the office with dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. E. A. Whitney and
seconded by Mrs. S. Packard that Mrs.
Emma Smith be chosen president; passed
unanimously.
	On suggestion of President Joseph Smith
the president elect made choice of Mrs. Sar-
ah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney for counselors.
	The ceremony of ordination was then per-
formed, when President Joseph Smith re-
sumed his remarks, giving instruction how
to govern themselves in their meetings,
what order to observe, how to regulate dis-
cussions, etc., etc., and concluded by say-
ing, “Do not injure the character of any
one; if members of the society shall conduct
themselves improperly deal with them and
keep all your doings within your own
bosoms, and hold all characters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. President Emma Smith
took the chair with her counselors.
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith, that the society go into
an investigation respecting what name it
should be called. Motion carried unani-
mously.
	President Joseph Smith and Elders John
Taylor and Willard Richards favored the
name Benevolent Society; Mrs. Cleveland
moved that it be Relief Society, and Mrs.
Emma Smith and Miss Eliza R Snow
argued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice.
The discussion was lengthy and interest-
ing but the decision of the majority was in
favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice, and the
name selected and voted upon was Female
Relief Society.
	(The prefix female was many years ago
discarded by popular vote throughout the
entire organization.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was elected secretary and Miss Phebe M.


Wheeler assistant secretary, and Miss
Elvira A. Cowles treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith said, “I now de-
clare this society organized with president
and counselors, according to Parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into this society must be free from
censure and received by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting say-
ing he was much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart re-
joiced when he saw the most distinguished
characters stepping forth in a cause which
was calculated to bring into exercise every
virtue and give scope to the benevolent feel-
ings of the female heart. He rejoiced to
see this institution according to the laws of
heaven; his prayer was that the blessings
of God and the peace of heaven might rest
upon this institution henceforth.
	President Jos. Smith gave a five dollar gold
piece to commence a Relief Society fund
and said, “Whatever I do hereafter for
charity, I shall do through this society.”
	Sarah M. Kimball gave $1.00. Elizabeth
Ann Whitney 50 cts., Emma Smith $1.00,
Sarah M. Cleveland 12½cts., Willard Rich-
ards $1.00, Elder John Taylor $2.00.
	The names of the sisters present at this
meeting were Emma Smith, Martha Knight,
Elvira A. Cowles, Sarah M. Cleveland,
Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook,
Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth Jones,
Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia
Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sophia
Robinson, Philanda Herrick, Phebe M. Wheel-
er and Sophia R. Marks.
	After singing “Come let us rejoice in the
day of salvation” prayer was offered and
meeting adjourned for one week.


THANKS.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	It seems to me that Ada Patterson de-
serves the heartfelt thanks of the women of
Utah for the fair-minded and sensible way
in which she has explained the present em-
barrassing situation we are placed in by the
election of B. H. Roberts to Congress. I
think, too, we should acknowledge the
liberality of the Mecca, a Denver magazine,
in publishing Miss Patterson’s fair state-
ment concerning us.
	She gives us credit for at least standing
by our rights, and of maintaining such
heroism as should be sufficient to stop the
voice of unthinking people who would have
it appear that to the imbecility of the wo-
men of Utah may be charged the election
of the man who fiercely opposed their being
allowed the privilege of voting.
	Miss Patterson says: “The unembroid-
ered truth is that the women of Utah were
opposed to Mr. Roberts. A large majority
of the woman vote was against him. The
minority voted for him because they were
loyal to Democracy, rather than to Mr.
Roberts. * * *
	He opposed permitting women to vote.
* * He lost as every one knows; but the
women never forgave him. Had his elec-
tion depended upon the votes of the women,
he would have met a Balaklava on election
day."
	Thus our friend, Miss Patterson, has
nobly spoken out in behalf of the wo-
men of Utah. And as one of them I feel
to return her sincere thanks.
L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


WOMANS EXPONENT


VIRGIN CITY, DIXIE.

Dear Exponent:
	Perhaps a few words from our little town
will be acceptable to the “Exponent.” The
past year has been a very dry one. In
August we had a very severe storm which
did but little good and a great deal of harm.
	The health of the people as a rule is pret-
ty good. Our Relief Society is doing a
good work taking care of the sick and look-
ing after the worthy poor and feeling after
the aged.
	On the 29th of December, 1897 and ’98
the Relief Society held what is called an
old people’s party. A committee being
appointed for the occasion all met at one
o’clock when tables were spread the length
of both sides of the hall with a feast of the
blessings of the earth. After dinner there
was a program rendered satisfactory to all.
In the evening [-]ll took part in the dance,
the aged having the preference, which made
the hearts of the older to feel glad, and
those of the younger to feel free and happy.
	On the morning of January 11, the peo-
ple awoke finding a happy surprise, the
snow being about three inches deep, the
first wet storm for the winter, which made
everybody rejoice.
	Hoping this will meet your approval and
wishing you a happy new year I remain,
Your sister in the Gospel,
EMILY A. STRATTON.


Mrs. F. S. Lee, Representative from Ar-
apahoe County, presided over the deliber-
ations of the Colorado House of Repre-
sentatives on the afternoon of January 11.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
ABIGAIL GLOYDE HYDE.

	Abigail Gloyde Hyde was the daughter
of Charles Gloyde and Abigail Pratt. She
was born in Cunnington, Hampshire Co.,
Massachusetts, November 16, 1820; this
was also the birthplace and early home of
the poet William Cullen Bryant.
	Her parents were among the early fami-
lies of New England. Her grandfathers
Gloyde and Pratt both served their country
with honor in the Revolutionary war	She
spent her early years at home with her
parents and attending school. Her father
was engaged in the manufacture of woolen
goods, being the proprietor of a woolen
factory. At the age of eighteen Abigail
left school with a good common school edu-
cation and commenced work in the factory.
She had early been taught the habit of in-
dustry and was a constant worker through-
out life. She also had a veneration for
sacred things, but was quiet and unpreten-
tious in her disposition. She heard the
Gospel as revealed by the Prophet Joseph
in her early youth, and was strongly im-
pressed with the truth thereof.
	In 1840 Elder William Hyde performed
a mission in the Eastern states, and Janu-
ary 16 of that year baptized Abigail Gloyde
and two of her cousins, Sarah and Lucy
Pratt. Her mother subsequently joined
the Church. She had a constant desire to
gather with the Saints, but as her father
had not embraced the Gospel she deferred
her emigration until 1859, after her mother’s
death, when she resolved to start alone and
join with the Saints in the Rocky moun-
tains. Her cousin, Sarah Pratt, joined her
in the expedition, and on May 11, 1859,
these two young women left the homes of
their parents and all their pleasant sur-
roundings and started for the gathering
place of the Saints. Sister Abigail’s father
accompanied her fifty miles to Albany, New
York, where they joined a company of
seven hundred Saints presided over by
Elder George Q. Cannon, en route to Salt
Lake City.
	The company chartered a train and
journeyed to St. Joseph, Missouri. Here
they prepared for the ox team journey
across the plains. Sister Abigail having
been very industrious in the woolen factory
had earned and saved several hundred dol-
lars. With a portion of this she purchased
three yoke of oxen and two wagons. One
they loaded with goods the other they used
for riding and sleeping in. The women
might have driven their own team but one
of the brethren desired to do the work for
them in order to procure a ride for his wife.
They had a very pleasant ride over the
plains with which they were much de-
lighted, Sister Abigail walked most of the
way. They were ninety-six days traveling
from the Missouri river, arriving in Salt
Lake valley, October 11, 1859.
	For a month Sister Abigail and her
cousin made their home at Abraham R.
Wright’s, who had charge of the company
crossing the plains. Subsequently they
were taken to the home of Elder Hyde in
Lehi, who had baptized them.
	On January 1, 1860, Abigail and her
cousin were both married to William Hyde
and went to live in Lehi. Subsequently
they went with Brother Hyde to Cache
Valley and were among the first settlers of
Hyde Park, the place bearing the name of

[Column 2]
Elder Hyde and over which he was Bishop
until his death in 1874.
	The first summer they lived in wagons
and tents. Sister Hyde was very indus-
trious during these labors of settling a new
place and cheerfully adapted herself to the
situation. She was the first president of
the Relief Society in Hyde Park and filled
the position with credit and satisfaction for
a number of years, through her entire ad-
ministration. She brought from her labors
in the factory in Massachusetts over seven-
teen hundred dollars, which was very oppor-
tune for those hard times.
	Brother Hyde purchased a carding mill
in Logan and Sister Abigail being very
anxious to earn something to help herself
to a livelihood, and being the only one in
that section who understood carding, went
to Logan and worked in the mill for a
term of years. Subsequently she went to
work in the Co-operative Store in Hyde
Park, and proved herself in this capacity a
most efficient business woman and  was
scrupulously honest in all her transactions.
She continued in this employment for
several years after the death of her husband,
when the store went into other hands. Be-
ing left without employment she went to
Logan City and again took up her abode
six days in the week in the carding mill.
She continued in this labor several years.
	In the former years of her labors in the
carding mill when the business was so
flush that the mill had to run day and
night, Sister Hyde would run the mill from
midnight until noon, when she would be
released by an able bodied man: and thus
for a long time she did the work which was
laborious enough for a strong man, and
which few women could do.
	She was postmistress of Hyde Park for
twelve years, and while absent working in
the carding mill her cousin Sarah, who
lived in the same house, filled the place as
deputy. Her reports and transactions were
always correct, giving the best of satisfac-
tion to all concerned.
	During this busy life of constant indus-
try and hard labor she bore three children,
two sons and one daughter, all of whom
survive her and are active, faithful Latter-
day Saints. The eldest son is now the
Bishop of Hyde Park.
	During the past few months Sister Hyde
was afflicted with paralysis, and passed
peacefully away without a struggle at 1:35
a. m., Tuesday, January 10, 1899. Her
children were all present at her bedside
during her last moments. She leaves two
sons and a daughter, six grandsons and
three granddaughters to mourn her loss.
	Her funeral was held in Hyde Park at
noon, Saturday 14th inst., and was attended
by the family and many loving friends.
Consoling and instructive remarks were
made by Presidents S. M. Molen, Orson
Smith and Elder Matthias Cowley. The
grave was dedicated by Bishop William
Hyde of the 5th ward of Logan, and thus
was laid to rest the remains of one of the
noblest of women, honest, chaste, benevo-
lent, industrious and faithful to the trust
reposed in her throughout life, from child-
hood to the grave. She fell asleep in the
hope of a glorious resurrection. She will
receive a crown of eternal lives in the
resurrection of the just.
						M. F. C.


If a man has no trials and tribulations he
is unable to appreciate happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A BEAUTIFUL RESPONSE. 

A very bright little army woman rose to
the occasion well a few days ago when she
was one of the guests at a small luncheon
given at one of the large hotels for some
distinguished New England people. It was
a large affair and in an impromptu manner
a number of toasts were given. In the
midst of it the little army woman with hor-
hor heard some one say:
	“We have among us the wife of an
officer in the regular army, and I think it
is only fitting that she should respond to
the toast ‘The Flag.’ ” The men applaud-
ed and the women smiled encouragement,
and trembling a little as she held up the
glass of wine, the officer’s wife spoke:
	“I belong to a class of women to whom
the flag is especially near and dear. All
day it waves over the roofs of our little
homes in the far frontier, and at sundown
the rustle of its folds, mingled with the
notes of ‘The Star Spangled Banner,’ is
the lullaby of our babies. We know that
it will be the winding sheet of those dear-
est to us. Since the word Santiago has been
written in our hearts I see yet more in this
flag—in its red, the blood of our martyrs;
in the white, the paleness of their ashen
faces: in the blue, the lips set with the
word ‘Freedom,’ and in the stars the soul
that will shine on forever.’’


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

Salt Lake City, Utah,
			Sunday, Jan. 15, 1899.
Dear Friend:
	In my left hand I hold the last bright
little leaf that has fallen from your balmy
tree, while with my right hand I essay to
trace a few slight veins with the hope that
they may appear, with no unsalutary effect,
on your next leaf when it drops.
	Upon entering your beautiful city last
evening, knowing I had but twenty-four
hours to remain, and that all the daylight I
should spend here would be while the
sacred Sabbath was lulling her children in-
to quiet inactivity, a feeling of disappoint-
ment crept over me. But I had not long to
droop over my misfortunes, for I had scarce-
ly made myself comfortable at my hotel
when dinner was announced. Being hun-
gry I was glad to be seated at table with
the other guests, and not very anxious to
enter into conversation with my entirely
new neighbors until my appetite was some-
what abated.
	The first I remember of speaking was
when a young woman at my right offered
me pickles and I said I would prefer catch-
up. That broke the ice.
	“Are you from the North or the South?”
she asked.
	“From the East,” I answered. “And
yourself?”
	“I came up from the South to attend the
funeral. Suppose you are here for the
same purpose, are you not?”
	“Didn’t know there was to be a funeral,”
I answered. “Whose is it, and when does
it take place?”
	“You did not know that Brother George
Goddard’s funeral is to take place tomorrow
at 2 o’clock, in the Tabernacle! Ah, but
you are a stranger here then! Pardon me,
I had no thought but you were one of our
people.”
	We got on finely after that. My newly
found friend proved to be, I must believe,
a newly appointed guardian angel to con-

[Column 2]
duct me where I might find the door that
will be opened to all humble seekers after
light and truth, if they will but knock.
	She it was, that friend, that angel of
mine, who put into my hand this
First of January “Woman’s Exponent”
with its most wonderful tracings of
your magnificent organization, the Relief
Society, some of the marvelous works of
which are shown in the brief reports con-
tained in that paper.
	But she explained much to me regarding
your people in a way and manner that I
shall hardly find in books or papers, and
she took me with her to the Great Taber-
nacle to attend that most splendid funeral.
	I never can forget what I saw and heard
there, and I never want to. Henceforth I
would like to work for and with those same
Sunday School children, among whom that
grand chieftain of yours, General George
Goddard, has spent so much of his life.
	Your teachers of righteousness are the
most thrilling, soul-inspiring speakers I
have ever listened to, and I have heard the
most eminent and eloquent divines in dif-
ferent parts of the world.
	In making my adieux, I have now but to
say of your wonderful city and people, “The
half has never been told.” And I feel like
adding, “Your people shall be my people,
and your God my God.”
			M. RACHELLE MEHETTE.


Mrs. Mary A. Wright was elected to the
Idaho House of Representatives from
Kootenai County at the recent elections, in
addition to Mrs. Clara Campbell of Ada
County, and Mrs. Harriet Noble of Boise.

	Mrs. Ellen C. Johnson, superintendent of
the Sherborn prison for women, has been
appointed by Governor Wolcott as a dele-
gate from Massachusetts to the Convention
of the National Prison Association to be
held at New Orleans, Jan. 21 to 24. She
is announced to address the convention on
“Prisons for Women.’’


RED CROSS NURSES.

MARGHERlTA ARLINA HAMM.
	“Of the nurses who attended the sick and
wounded some were hired and received a
salary. A second class received no salary,
but had their expenses paid. A third class
paid their own expenses and traveled great
distances in going from their homes to the
camps in the South or in the West Indies.
A fourth class consisted of members of local
branches residing in the neighborhood of
the hospitals, who volunteered their ser-
vices for a day, week, or month, and who
did not wait for any special order from the
central authority. Besides nurses there
were distributors, inspectors, physicians,
clerks, guards, bookkeepers and others.
Altogether over 1,000 volunteers served
their country in the peaceful ranks of the
Red Cross army.
	“Of the amount of money raised and ex-
pended by the Red Cross it is very difficult
to get anything like accurate figures. A
few contributors and auxiliaries published
the value of the supplies they forwarded
either to the supply depots or to the camps,


but at least three-fourths kept undivulged
the value of their donations.
	“Mr. Richard J. Hinton, who gave this
division much study, and found that the
amount of money received at the New
York office between June 15 and August
26 aggregated over $235,000, an average
of $3,400 per day. The supplies received
during the same period came to about
$250,000, or $3,500 per day. * * *
	“The grand total of gifts from all parts of
the world, including supplies and trans-
portation, was not less than $3,000,000 and
probably not more than $4 000,000, al-
though the agents in different states say it
is very difficult to value the supplies.
	“No such munificence was ever known be-
fore in the history of the world. Though
the war is over practically the Red Cross
keeps up its good work and will, as far as
it can, bend its energies to ameliorating
the condition of the Cubans. In Porto
Rico little or nothing remains to be done,
and in the Philippines there will be no
great need of charitable action; but in the
luckless island of Cuba a very large body of
people will require assistance for two or
three years before they become prosperous
and self supporting. Not alone are the
fields ruined, but the homes, factories,
machinery and live-stock have been de-
stroyed.”


REFLECTIONS. 

BY NINA WINSLOW ECKART.
The snow lies on the frozen ground,
	The night is dark and still,
Save now and then the winds low moan
	Across some distant hill.
And i[-] a r[-]om a young man sits, 
His head is bowed in prayer,
He longs to be at home again
	Where life is free from care.

Around the room are tokens dear—
	A pic[-]ure on the wall,
Recalls to him his college days,
	His friends and classmates all. 
The room where four glad years were spent,
	In thought he sees once more,
His books and chair await him there,
	He sees the open door.

And thinks “Oh would that I could stand
	Upon that threshold bright,
And have those dear, familiar scenes
	To cheer me up tonight.”
And then like mi[-]t before his eyes
	Another vision sweeps,
And swiftly as the life blood flows, 
	Around his heart it creeps.

He hears again his mother’s voice,
	And on his fevered brow
Her gentle hand again is placed,
	(Oh, were she with him now!)
The tears unbidden fill his eyes, 
	Then dashing them away
He rises to his feet again,
	And now I hear him say:

“Ah, yes, my life is lonely here
	But I will not give way,
The sun behind the cloud is bright,
	Although the sky is gray. 
And when a fortune I have made,
	They’ll be so proud to know,
How I have worked and won my way,
	In all this world of woe.”

Yes, hopeful be, my friend, for Fate
	Is good to those who try,
Beneath the cold snow of despair,
	The Crocus blossoms lie,
And they will bud and bloom for you,
	Ere many days are done,
The clouds will pass from out your way,
	And the behold the sun.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1, 1899.


[Column 1]
A WONDERFUL AGE.

	Truly this age is significant of a higher
order of things, a larger outlook soon to
manifest itself in the development of the
human race. Assuredly in all that relates
to progress and to culture even in aesthet-
ics the human family is not going back-
ward, but forward. Organization has had
much to do with this onward movement.
	To be sure war has not ceased altogether,
but efforts made and plans proposed for a
Peace Congress for all the powerful nations,
foretells vividly what we who are living to-
day may anticipate as near at hand. One
even now looks forward to the unexpected,
and might almost add the impossible; for
really what would have been claimed
as utterly impossible fifty years ago has
come to pass, and is almost classed as some-
thing of an i[-]cident instead of, as our fore-
fathers would have thought it, a positive
miracle or unwarrantable in fact.
	Not only the rapid advancement made in
the world of affairs, great and small, and
the common workaday world itself, but the
unprecedented growth of ideas; not neces-
sarily from the learned in the arts and
sciences, or direct lines of knowledge, but
a kind of spontaneous outcome as it were
from some fount of intelligence which had
been reposing through the ages and culmin-
ated at last in the nineteenth century, crys-
talizing certain truths for the uplifting of
mankind. The Lord of heaven and
earth has the over-ruling power, notwith-
standing the wisdom of the world and the
impracticability of many of the theories of
men, and He will care for His own, and
those that seek after the bread of life will
be entitled to the promises made to the
faithful.
	Women have in this present generation
taken hold of some of the problems of the
day and wrestled with them with the in-
tuitive spiritual strength that seems to be a
part of the feminine nature. Men in high
places who have hitherto been tenacious of
rights and of power are beginning to feel,
and in some measure to acknowledge the
superiority of woman’s judgment in many
important matters, and to appreciate her
help as a force working for good in nearly
all the varied lines of progress.
	It is a self-evident truth that women
stand on a higher plane morally and spirit-
ually than men, and why, then, may they
not mingle in governmental affairs, since
society and the true life of the individual
and the nation depends so much upon good,

[Column 2]
wholesome laws judiciously administered,
with a view to restraining evil and promot-
ing good in practical ways that should tend
to better standards in every day life.
	While mothers and sisters were content
with domesticity and never looked into the
outside world except as some man gave his
masculine view, the world wagged along;
but when woman awoke to a conscious-
ness of her own power she began to wonder
and to calculate and inquire what were her
rights. The key of knowledge was turned
for her, and men no longer had the same
absolute sway. Women began to do some
of their own thinking on moral questions,
and then social problems were discussed on
the moral side, and following that economic
measures and so on through the whole cate-
gory of human affairs. To woman has
been opened the great domain of the world,
and why not to the mothers of generations
of men? But ask as one will why and
wherefore the fact remains that woman is
now fairly launched into the arena of Hercu-
lean endeavor to make her way onward
and upward in the ascent of life to the high-
er plane and to lift up those weaker and
less able than herself, the women of less en-
lightened countries and the children; striv-
ing to make better the conditions and en-
vironments, removing obstructions that lie
in the pathway to excellence, and always
bearing inasmuch as is possible the burdens
of others, who are struggling to reach safer
ground.
	Combined efforts are multiplying, and
necessarily must increase the power against
tyranny and oppression of all kinds, and
where men and women unite for high pur-
poses, intelligently waging war against
wrong-doing, the victory so long looked for
must eventually be expected.
	But such a thing cannot be brought
about momentarily; howevheer leaven is
working and the prophecies of Joel con-
cerning the last days when the spirit of the
Lord would be poured out upon all flesh
are being fulfilled before the very eyes of
the generations of today and they know it
not. There is a power that is working for
righteousness in the earth though the in-
fluences that tend to evil are opposed.
	Whatever may be said of the age, every-
one must admit it is a wonderful age how-
ever one marks progress. History must so
record it. This nineteenth century now
drawing to a close is the most eventful one
since the days of the Savior and His Apos-
les in the first century of the Christian era.
	The peace project of the Czar of Russia
presages something more than has yet ap-
peared; various conjectures about his motives
are afloat, but the Lord is working among
the nations and the desire for peace which
is growing among highly enlightened peo-
ples speaks for itself in a voice not to be
misunderstood. Russia may be afraid of
other nations and consequently advise dis-
armament, but a higher power than the
Czar can be recognized in the treaty for
peace along which line some men and wo-
men, the Peacemakers, have been laboring
during the last decade with great diligence.
Summing up the great changes in the last
hundred years must bring evidence to all
who stop to think, and another age like
this will assuredly bring greater things
to pass in the same ratio.


We have asked repeatedly through the
paper and officially for the names of women
who were elected in November 1898, but
have not yet been able to get replies.


TRIENNIAL NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	A delegation of ladies will go from Utah
to attend the Triennial of the National
Council of Women to be held in Washing-
ton early this month, and will be there in
time for the preliminary or prefatory meet-
ing to be held Saturday evening, the 11th
of February, at the Arlington Hotel where
the Council will have its headquarters dur-
ing the time of the Triennial.
	On Sunday women ministers of
different denominations who are in attend-
ance at the Council will probably be invited
to speak in some of the churches in the city
as they usually are, or have been in the past.
	The National Woman’s Relief Society
and the Young Ladies National Mutual
Improvement Association are affiliated with
the National Council and will send dele-
gates, or rather, technically speaking, a
proxy for the president and one delegate
from each organization. The president of
each society affiliated is vice-president to
the Council proper, and all business that
pertains to the Council is referred that she
may act in reference to it, either in person
or by correspondence or telegram.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young and Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor are by virtue of the office they
hold vice presidents. The presidents and
delegates are the only ones who have votes
except the general officers of the society,
and in their absence or non-attendance the
president is represented by proxy, and the
delegate by an alternate who vote in their
place.
	Patrons of the Council have no vote,
though they have all other privileges; they
may attend all business meetings, partici-
pate in discussions and have the privilege
of the floor, but cannot vote as they have
no constituency to represent. Annual con-
tributors are admitted to the same privi-
leges as patrons. To become a patron one
must be recommended as a person of influ-
ence and standing in society by some one to
whom she is known and who is herself
known to the Society. The fee for patrons
is one hundred dollars down, and for an-
nual contributors five dollars a year. There
are several ladies in this city who are annual
contributors, though very few patrons.
	The National Council is certainly a most
dignified body of superior women; they
hail from all parts of the United States
and Fraternal Delegates have come from
other countries to the Triennial at each of
its regular sessions and also to its business
session.
	In Washington in 1895, at the second
Triennial, the Countess of Aberdeen and
Lady Henry Somerset were both upon
the platform as speakers with many other
distinguished women writers and orators.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of Boston,
president of the George Washington Mem-
orial Association, made a magnificent
speech at the executive meeting in Omaha
in October at one of the public sessions,
also Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, who repre-
sents the Florence Crittendon [-]ssociation.
It is to be regretted that more Utah women
cannot attend the Triennial, as it is most
educational in many ways.
	It was confidently expected at the session
of 1895 that the next Triennial would meet
in an upper and lower house as the Con-
gress of the United States does, but so
many things have since transpired to hinder
the progress which the Council expected to
make that the idea is given up for the pres-
ent, although not abandoned.


Mrs. Mary A. Dickinson, who was elected
president of the Council in 1895, and who
was certainly well qualified in every respect
for the position, after two years was com-
pelled to resign by order of her physician,
and after much persuasion and entreity
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, the former presi-
dent, was induced to accept the office for
the unexpired term. Mrs. Sewall is, and
was at that time, vice president of the Inter-
national Council, which is composed of
National Councils, as the National Council
is of National Societies or Associations.
Mrs. Sewall has been nominated for the
next president of the International Council,
and will without doubt be elected. The
present incumbent of the office is the
Countess of Aberdeen.
	A new president, therefore, will be elected
at the coming Triennial, and this will be a
very important feature of the Triennial.
Probably no woman in the United States is
better qualified (if as well) to hold such
a high position as Mrs. Sewall, but the ladies
must be content when they know one of
their own country women, an American,
has been sought for and honored with a
higher place, to preside over many collective
National Councils from several different
countries, speaking different languages,
some of them ladies of rank and title, yet
Mrs. Sewall is their acknowledged peer,
nevertheless.
	The members of the Council are proud
of the distinction Mrs. Sewall has justly ob-
tained, and fully appreciate the honor it is
to American women.
	We ardently hope Mrs. May Wright
Sewall will be the representative from the
National Council of Women to the Paris
Exposition, and Congress will be petitioned
to make this appointment, and with a mil-
lion of women one would think Congress
could scarcely refuse to give this organized
work a woman representative.
	Mrs. Bertha M. Palmer will probably be
appointed to represent the work of the wo-
men of the United States. Such an appoint-
ment for her has been applied for—but so
far there is no positive assurance of it, al-
though there is scarcely a doubt with re-
gard to Mrs Palmer’s appointment.
	The National Woman’s Relief Society
will probably be represented by Mrs. E. B.
Wells, proxy for president, and Mrs. Zina
Y. Card delegate, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas,
alternate delegate. The Y. L. N. M. I. A.
by Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, proxy for
president, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow delegate,
and Miss Ann M. Cannon alternate to dele-
gate and member of Resolution Commit-
tee. Mrs Susa Y. Gates as speaker, sub-
ject, “Status of Hawaiian Women.” Mrs.
E.B. Wells’ subject will be “Good Citizen-
ship.”
	It is also expected that Mrs. Lucy B.
Young and Mrs. Elizabeth McCune will go,
as both are patrons of the National Council.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	The Stake secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety in all the several Stakes of Zion and of
missions or branches of the Relief Society
where Stakes are not organized, are hereby
requested to send statistical and financial re-
ports for the entire year of 1898, to the
general secretary, room 208 Templeton
building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In Tooele County, Utah, a woman re-
corder and collector has been appointed.
In Box Elder County Miss Fanny Graehl,
who served last term as recorder, was again
elected; also in Millard County Mrs. Deli-
lah King Olsen was re-elected for this term.
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates of Provo, editor
of the Young Woman’s Journal, has been
appointed by Mrs. May Wright Sewall
Active Chairman of the Press Committee of
the National Council of Women of the
United States.
	The Utah Legislature is spending most
of its time the last three weeks balloting
for a Senator and making eloquent speeches.
The two women naturally drift into the
same line of action, notwithstanding they
are both strong-minded. The fact is there
should have been more women elected,
then their influence might have turned the
scale and perhaps less time used in making
choice of a suitable Senator.
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also
individual subscribers indebted for the
paper are urgently requested to settle all
old accounts at the earliest date possible.
This becomes an absolute necessity on ac-
count of the change that takes place in the
management of the Deseret Evening News.
The “Exponent” will not be sent to any
subscriber after January 1899, unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due, in
addition to tbe printed matter.
	Tuesday, January 31 was the anniversary
of the birthday of President Zina D. H.
Young, familiarly and lovingly known
among the sisters as “Aunt Zina,” and in
commemoration of the time members and
relatives of the Young family were invited
to meet at the residence of Mrs. Phebe Y.
Beatie to spend a few hours of the after-
noon, to pay their loving tribute
to this distinguished Mother in Israel,
whose whole life has been spent in doing
good. Everywhere her works praise her
and her name is spoken of lovingly by
young and old. May her useful and
beautiful life be prolonged until she has
finished all her heart desires to do, and her
name and her works of love and charity
never be forgotten by the generation in
which she has taken such an active part,
but be handed down in the annals of the
Church as one of its noblest heroines.
	On the same day occurs the birthday
anniversary of President Jane S. Richards
who was born two years later. Both
these sisters were born in Jefferson Co ,
New York State, and have been intimately
associated ever since the organization of
the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Mrs. Rich-
ards is at present sojourning for a brief time
it in Los Angelos, California; her husband,
President Franklin D. Richards, has gone
over quite recently for a visit. Their son,
Hon. C. C. Richards and wife are with
them, and no doubt they are enjoying the
happy occasion and celebrating the birth-
day with all due ceremony, gifts and trib-
utes of love in that land of flowers, fruits
and sunshine. The “Exponent” extends
loving congratulations to these famous wo-
men, who have assisted in laying the
foundation of one of the largest societies of
women organized in this country. May it
be their good fortune to see much accom-

[Column 2]
plished for the futherance of this charitable
and philanthropic work during the next
few years, a work which has so engrossed
their time and talents in the years that are
past. A work of practical relief, love and
sympathy carried on in the midst of this
people, the magnitude and extent of which
is little known among many even of the
members of the Church.


PERSEVERANCE AT CENTERVILLE.

	The Centerville Relief Society owned
two lots of its own and desired to build, as
they had no place of their own to meet in,
but on inquiring the cost they found it
would be more than they could afford, not
wishing to go into debt too much. On the
adjoining lot from theirs was a school house
which they were advised to purchase if it
could be bought on reasonable terms. A
committee was formed of the brethren to
look after it. They found they could buy
it for five hundred dollars. Through the
perseverance of the committee, and prayers
and help of the brethren and sisters who
responded nobly to the cause, they bought
it, so we now own two thirds of a block.
The school house was cleared and repaired,
its size is thirty by thirty-five feet, it cost
to repair and furnish it one hundred and 
five dollars.
	The hall was dedicated on the 1st of June,
1898. There were present President J.
Hess and Counselors Grant and Clark, of
the Davis Stake; the Bishopric of the ward,
A. B. Porter, Melvin H. Randall and John
J. Smith; Stake Presidency of the Relief 
Society, President Susan Grant and Coun-
selors Clark and Holt and R. S. Stake 
Secretary Phebe Sessions; also Mrs. E. D.
Roundy of Salt Lake City and other visitors
from the different wards. It was decided
that the Relief Society should fast in thank-
fulness to their Heavenly Father for His
goodness unto them.
	The meeting was called to order by
President Margaret Randall. Singing
“The spirit of God.” Prayer by Bishop
Aaron Porter. Singing, Invocation com-
posed by E. D. Roundy, after which Presi-
dent Randall gave a brief sketch of how we
bought our house, and said she knew the
Lord had greatly blessed us in opening our
way to obtain the means to pay for it.
	The dedicatory prayer was then offered
by our beloved president, John W. Hess.
Short addresses were made by the visiting
brethren and sisters, congratulating us up-
on our building and furnishings, and
prophesying that the way would be opened 
whereby we could pay the rest of the in-
debtedness. They also spoke of the magni-
tude of the Relief Society work and its aims
and purposes, and said it gave the sisters
great scope to use their talents and abilities
in relieving suffering humanity, and in
many ways could we do good; we could by
our walk and conversation in our daily life
teach the principles of virtue and truth and 
sow the seeds of faith in the hearts of the
young people, and encourage all to do right
by our own example as well as precept.
Prayed the Lord to ever bless the sisters
with a full realization of their duties and
give them strength to perform the same.
	A poem was then read dedicated to our
beloved president, Margaret Randall, in
which her faithfulness and integrity to the
Gospel and the Relief Society work in
general was portrayed, composed and read
by Mrs. E. D. Roundy, after which the


meeting was adjourned and cake and ice
cream were served to the assembly.
		MARY ROCKWOOD, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held Jan. 9, 1899, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. Singing “Come let us anew.”
Prayer by Sister Louisa Stevens. Singing
“All hail the new born year.” Minutes
read and approved.
	Counselor Stevenson told the congrega-
tion that President Horne had been very
sick but was improving. Spoke of the les-
sons we must learn in life and how valu-
able they would be when we had learned
them, pray for the help of the Lord. The
Prophet Joseph Smith said at one o’clock
was a good time to pray. Sister Kiddle
who had testified in our last meeting had
now been laid to rest. Spoke also of the
death of Sister Priscilla Staines, said let us
all be prepared to go.
	Sister Brown spoke of Temple work and
the peace it brings us, thought we should
look to God to heal our sick, etc. The
congregation sang “The Spirit of God.”
	Sister Mary P. Silver said, “We are the
most blessed people on the earth.” Ex-
horted all to attend to their duties and be
prepared to meet eternity.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “We’ll stand
the strain.” A sister, name unknown, of-
fered a humble prayer, and another sister
bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Barnes said she knew Joseph Smith
was a prophet of God. She became con-
verted to the Gospel by reading the Book
of Mormon. Through her trials and hard-
ships she had been brought nearer to God.
Another sister bore an excellent testimony.
	Sister Almeda Young spoke upon bearing
testimony when the Spirit of God moves,
and the necessity of our listening to those
who are placed over us, and of the integrity
of President M. I. Horne.
	The congregation sang “Arise my soul,
arise.” Sister Barton spoke of the com-
mandments given to Joseph Smith, and
said how blessed we should be if we would
keep them. She thought the rearing of the
youth was of the utmost importance and we
should lead in all things, attend to our
meetings, pay our tithing and never speak
against the priesthood.
	Sister Louise Stevenson said she thought
it was best to go with our children to their
meetings, teach them principles of truth.
	Sister Julia S. Woolley and Sister Mary
Morris bore testimonies of the Gospel and
the peace it brings. A sister in the congre-
gation spoke of her sons going to the late
war and how the Lord had preserved them.
Another sister bore testimony and urged all
to stand firm and unwavering to the truth.
Another sister told how her father had cast
her off because she joined the Latter-day
Saints.
	Sister Mary Morris thought those who
spoke against the principles of the Gospel
were prompted by the adversary. Congre-
gation sang “What was witnessed in the
heavens.”
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said let us
keep humble and purify our souls so that
we can enjoy the spirit of the Lord. We
are a tried people, but go to our Heavenly
Father and he will never betray us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “The God we adore.” Benediction by
Sister Lydia D. Alder.
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
THE SILK WORM AND ITS SILK

	When Noah was a little boy, about 150
or 200 years old, and hundreds of years be- 
fore he received Divine instructions to con-
struct the Ark, when not far to the west-
ward of Mount Ararat where the Ark rested
after the flood, and just across the Caspian
Sea, a little Chinese girl (she was about 14
years old) named Si-ling chi, the wife of the
Emperor Hoang-ti, was watching one day
early in the spring, with astonishment the
movements of some caterpillars that were
feeding upon the leaves of a mulberry tree.
Day by day she watched and day by day
the caterpillars grew rapidly.
	She noticed that as they moved their
heads from side to side that a liquid, gum-
my substance appeared to issue from their
mouths and soon change into a soft and
downy thread. She used to go every day
and watch the caterpillars working. Bye
and bye, when the cocoons were formed,
she had the curiosity to take one in her
hand and examine it. She found it about
the size and shape of a peanut; from it a
number of loose threads floated about.
Pulling one of them she found it was so
light it would float in the air, yet so tough
she could pull off quite a length of it. It
occured to her that if these cocoons could be
softened she could obtain a longer thread
of the silk and be able to use it. After
some study she soaked the cocoons in
warm water and began pulling on the
thread. To her delight it grew longer and
longer, and she wound it around her fingers
till the cocoon was all unwound, and then
she found she had a continuous thread
3,000 to 4,000 feet long. In her girlish
glee she turned to her waiting woman and
exclaimed, “Hoo-le-ma, (See;) Ming-hing
haynung,” (Look ! How beautiful!) The
silk when reeled was a bright golden color
and doubtless it is from this fact the Chi-
nese are so fond of yellow, it being the
royal color of their country.
	Si-ling-chi’s industry did not end here,
for she went several steps further and
taught the ladies of her palace to manu-
facture and embroider silk. Not only the
emperor, but Mandarins and others ap-
peared in public robed in fabrics of dazzling
hues.
	For many years the Chinese guarded
well the secret of the source of their im-
mense wealth, for raw silk was imported
all over Asia, India, Persia and Arabia.
There are two legends as to how the secret
got out. One is that some monks conveyed
the eggs in their staffs over the border; the
other is that the pantless little fellow Cupid
had a hand in it.
	The first known place outside of Asia
where silk was cultivated was the Island of
Cos. The cloth woven in this country
was of the thinnest possible texture and
transparent. Justinian secured a monopoly
of the trade. Under the care of the Greeks
the silk worm took kindly to its Western
home and their silken textures became
famous. At a later period the Saracens
maintained a mastery over the trade and
by them it was spread east and west.
	The eggs of the silk worm are deposited
by a moth known as the Bombyx mori,
which lays about 350 of them. After im-
pregnating the female the male dies. He
rarely survives more than four or five
hours. The female lives two or three
days to deposit the egg. When first de-
posited they are a beautiful bright hue, but
they soon turn color, becoming dull and

[Column 2]
dark. She never deposits the eggs in a
heap, that is to say her eggs are never laid
one top of the other. What her purpose is
in spreading them out I do not know. That
is a habit of which there is no intelligent
explanation. The male is a little fellow,
creamy in color and much livelier than his
mate. He flutters about while the female
remains still. Her brief life is spent with-
in a radius of six inches. They neither
eat nor drink, having no mouths. They
are born only for a reproductive purpose.
Having deposited her eggs the female fol-
lows the male into the Great Unknown.
The eggs hatch out the following spring.
Its product is dark and covered with fine
hair. One hundred will weigh a grain and
at maturity the same one hundred will
weigh 9,500 grains. The little worms are
fed on young mulberry leaves. They go
on feeding and growing rapidly for a few
days, then refuse food, for two days they
remain in a torpid state after which they
cast their skins, which do not seem to grow
apace with the rest of their bodies. Then
they go on feeding and growing when the
same thing occurs. In all they cast their
skins four times and go through five ages,
they have about thirty-one days of eating
and nine days of fasting. Then sets in a
brief era of unrest during which they
wander about moving their heads, which is
preliminary to the final act of their strange
and wonderful career. Having found a
suitable place they commence throwing
from their spinneret the airy filament
which they have been storing up since they
began feeding. The spinneret is a very
small orifice below the mouth. Around
and around the body the filament is wound,
the worm making the silk a tomb for itself.
To this purpose the rest of its life is steadi-
ly devoted. It makes sixty-five motions of
its head every minute, or a total of three
hundred thousand to spin its cocoon. Dur-
ing this time (a minute) the filament flows
from four to six inches from the spinneret.
Its labor done, the legs drop off and death
intervenes.
	In the cocoon, however, is the pupa, or
chrysalis with no chance of escape. How-
ever there is a way out. In ten or fifteen
days the moth is developed and it ejects
against the end of the cocoon a secretion
which softens the gum, and pushing some
of the threads aside and breaking others,
the moths issue to play their part in the re-
productive process already described. So it
goes on indefinitely. This is all that is
known or can be known of the silk worm.
It eats and works. The laws that govern
its being are arbitrary and inflexible. From
these laws it seems to have no desire to es-
cape Where the conditions are favorable
it goes right on about its business, carrying
out the designs of its Creator and finally
yielding up its brief life in obedience to a
mandate as irrevocable as our own fate,
whatever it may be when we are called to
account. By what so called instinct it is
governed I cannot say. I cannot answer
that any more than I can solve any one of
the numberless profound problems which
we see about us. Its purpose most proba-
bly, is to provide a home for the chrysalis,
and to do that it sacrifices its own life. The
perpetuation of its species seems to be its
only aim, and in carrying out this purpose
it plays into the hands of man.
	A singular thing about the spinning pro-
cess is that the thread is never tangled.
Row after row of it is completed, the worm
never beginning a new one, until the old


one is finished. Then man steps in and
after stifling the pupa, unwinds the cocoons
with a filature. The cocoons are at first
hard and unyielding. They are softened in
warm water with a little soap. The ends
are gathered up with a probe to which they
attach themselves while in the water, and
then the filature unwinds them and they
become raw silk.
THE COCOONS.
	The cocoons from which the moths are
allowed to escape are taken with the waste,
that is, the silk thrown out by the worm
before it commences its cocoon, and con-
verted into spun silk,and used in the manu-
facture of inferior goods. The method of
manufacture consists in cleaning and
macerating the raw material, after which it
is carded and made into thread somewhat
after the manner of cotton.
	Cocoons vary in length from 300 to
1,800 yards in one continuous thread which
is 10/213 of an inch in diameter composed
of two fibers. Sixty thousand cocoons,
which would be produced from 1 1/2 oz. of
eggs, would produce enough silk to girdle
the earth at the equator.
	Ten to twelve pounds of leaves con-
sumed by the worms produce one pound of
cocoons. Three and three quarters pounds
of cocoons yield one pound (16 ozs.) of raw
silk, and one pound of raw silk produces,
when degummed, 12 ozs. of pure silk, one
pound of which with the assistance of dye-
stuffs, make twenty yards of a heavy im-
ported gros-grain. Twelve thousand
pounds of raw silk, or the product of about
50,000,000 worms are used weekly by a
leading American firm in the manufacture
of spool silk alone. Over $100,000,000
were expended in the United States during
the year 1888 for silk. In colored silks
35,000 shades or tints can be dyed. Black
silk fabrics can be adulterated five hundred
per cent. Pure dye silks are almost inde-
structible, 16-oz. dye being the best for
service.
				JOHN DEAN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

BINGHAM STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Bingham Stake convened at
Lewisville, December 17, 1898, President
E. J. Bennett presiding. Opened by sing-
ing “The morning breaks.” Prayer by 
Bishop Jardine. Singing “Now let us re-
joice.” President E. J Bennett made a
few opening remarks, minutes of the pre-
vious forenoon conference were read and 
approved.
	President James E. Steele explained to
the sisters the necessity of sending in
their charitable reports to the Bishops.
	President E. J. Bennett said we should
give what we have to give through the Re-
lief Society that we may have credit on the
books, and then forward our half yearly re-
ports to the Bishops that the sisters may
have credit for what they do, and when 
the teachers go around they should try and 
find out if there are any who are in need,
and those who may need assistance should
not be too proud to receive help. We should
be careful not to make our business too 
public so as to hurt any one’s feelings.
	Reports were then given as follows:
Lewisville, President Jardine; Menan,
Counselor Mary Stephens; Iona, Secretary


[Column 1]
Hall. Each society was reported as doing
a good work.
	President James E. Steele said he was
pleased to meet in Relief Society conference.
He always liked to be on time so as to hear
the petitions that go up to the Father and
partake of the spirit that we may be in pos-
session of it in our conference. It is neces-
sary that we should come together that the
people may be instructed and encouraged.
The Lord sees the needs of His people and
thus we have these privileges. He could
see in meeting with those who did not at-
tend these conferences and did not partake
of the spiritual food, that they were not so
energetic. It looked as though the re-
sponsibility of this work were resting upon
a few. An object in coming to meeting
should be to be fed spiritual food and in-
structed. The reward is to those who are
faithful all the day long. Spoke upon the
storing of grain; hoped the sisters in this
Stake would add two thousand more bush-
els this season to their grain. Urged the
sisters to use their surplus quilts in blessing
the poor and keeping them from suffering
with the cold. Said the more he became
acquainted with the organization the broad-
er and grander it was, prayed God to bless
us that we might enjoy this conference.
	President E. J. Bennett wished there had
been more present to hear the words of
President Steele and the spirit they were
given in, said we were making a record for
time and all eternity.
	Meeting then closed by singing “Lord
dismiss us.” Benediction.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“The time is far spent.” Prayer was of-
fered by Patriarch O. Harmon. Singing,
“O, ye mountains high.” Minutes of the
afternoon session of the previous conference
were read and accepted, after which Sister
Kate Bennett was released as Stake treasur-
er of the Relief Society, and sustained and
set apart as assistant secretary, and Sister
Alice Boomer was released as assistant
treasurer, and sustained and set apart as
Stake treasurer to the Relief Society. Re-
ports were then called for and the Ammon
society was reported by President Richard-
son. She said meetings were not attended
so well of late on account of sickness. They
had built a granary, had 235 bushels of
grain.
	Counselor Dabell reported the Grant soci-
ety. Said they had paid out fifteen dollars
of late for charitable purposes.
	Labelle society was reported by Sister
Clifford, secretary; Rudy society, by Presi-
dent Clark.
	Emma C. Rushton, Stake counselor,
thought we had good reports in today,
but they could be improved. Noticed the
sisters who attended these meetings were
generally on hand, it was those that did not
attend to these duties that needed waking
up. Felt we had none too much time and
we should try and visit those who were
neglectful.
	Stake Secretary E. S. Brunt thought we
did not study sufficiently so as to be able to
instruct our children in the Gospel, let us
keep good books in the way of our children,
and not the light literature of to day. The
Lord desired to see our children saved and
He was sending fishers and hunters to
bring them in the path of their duty.
	President E. J. Bennett spoke of the
storing of grain, said we should store it for
a time of need and not to loan and specu-
late on, and the sisters should build good

[Column 2]
granaries and have them dedicated. Spoke
against raffling, instructed the teachers to
go around with a good spirit and have com-
forting words for the sisters. Recommended
lectures in our society from the Bible and
our Church works. Said that at our late
conference in Salt Lake City it was decided
that the 17th day of March should be the
annual day of the Relief Society, and ad-
vised the sisters to make it a good and
profitable day.
	The officers of the General Board, also
Stake officers were unanimously sustained.
Conference was then adjourned for three
months Singing, “An angel from on high.”
Benediction by Elder Benjamin Bennett.
				E. S. BRUNT, Sec.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY.

SKETCH OF MRS. C. K. PALMER.
	Catharine K. Palmer, wife of Mifflin L.
Palmer, passed away at 3:20 p. m., Janu-
ary 12, 1899. She was the daughter of
Abram and Catharine King Dolbey, and 
was born in Chester Co., Penn., on the 6th 
of April, 1817. She was the mother of
eight children, five of whom survive her;
they are Mrs. Rebecca W. Harper of Read-
ing, Penn., Mrs. Phoebe Shaffer and Mrs.
Eliza Frost of this city, Mr. A. Morris
Palmer of Taylorsville and Mrs. Bethula
Sharp of Vernon; and she was also the
mother of the late Mrs. Selinda D. Bring-
hurst, wife of Bishop W. A. Bringhurst of
Toquerville.
	Sister Palmer joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints about 1840, and 
with her husband and part of her family
came to Utah in 1861. She settled in the 
8th ward of Salt Lake City, and with the
exception of a few months has resided there
ever since. She joined the Relief Society
of that ward at its organization in 1866, and 
was appointed a teacher. Since then she
was treasurer and afterwards counselor, and
in 1893 she was appointed president of the
society, which office she held at the time of 
her death. She filled all these offices faith-

[Column 2]
fully and won the respect of all who knew
her.
	She was buried from the 8th ward meet-
ing house, which was beautifully draped
and trimmed with smilax, on Monday 16.
Her pall-bearers were six of her grandsons.
Every honor was paid her, the meeting
house was filled, the floral offerings were
very beautiful. One from the Relief Soci-
ety was a sheaf of wheat from Philadelphia
and a sickle.
	She was sick for many months and bore
her sufferings uncomplainingly. She knew
she could not recover and gave directions
concerning her funeral. She was a faith-
ful worker in the cause of truth and has
earned a rest from her labors of nearly
eighty-two years. She leaves many near
relatives in the Eastern states, one being a
twin sister.
							E. F.
LOUISA G. HENINGER.
	Sister Louisa G. Heninger was born in
Bland Co, Virginia, September 8, 1836.
She was the daughter of Francis Grose-
close and Mary I. Grosclose, that being her
mother’s maiden name also.
	Sister Louisa was of a gentle, mild and
patient disposition, exhibiting in her tender
years a veneration for God and sacred
things, possessing a prayerful heart and
desire to understand the principles taught
in the Scriptures of divine truth. With
such characteristics she was readily im-
pressed with the truth of the Gospel as re-
vealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in these
last days. Elder Jedediah M. Grant intro-
duced the Gospel into that section in 1839
or 1840, and made many converts to the
truth Among them was Absalom Young
who became a very capable Elder in that
section of Virginia. Sister Louisa with
her father was baptized by Elder Absalom
Young, December 3, 1856, in Holsten river,
Bland Co., Virginia. She promptly secured
the spirit of the Gospel and took pleasure at
all times in hearing its principles expounded
and in doing all in her power to explain it
to others and remove prejudice from the
minds of the misinformed.
	She was married to James Preston Hen-
inger June 15, 1859, who also at an early
date had embraced the Gospel. They re-
mained in Virginia for some years and their
house was always the home of the Elders
from Zion. Sister Louisa and her husband
never felt that they could do enough to
make the servants of the Lord comfortable,
and to assist them in every way to prose-
cute their missionary labors.
	Their home was ever open to public
meetings when more capacious buildings
could not be procured. Many of the good
“Virginia folk” have listened at their
family fireside to the Gospel expounded by
Elders from Utah. Be it said to their credit
also, that they entertained the Baptist, the
Methodist, the Lutheran, and every class of
preacher that came to their neighborhood,
and gave them the best they had of the
comforts of life. By their sojourn in Vir-
ginia a permanent home was made for the
Elders for twenty-six years, during which
time many Elders found a welcome home
and many neighbors were brought to a
knowledge of the truth.
	Sister Heninger with her husband and
eight children and two children of her hus-
band’s by a former wife emigrated to Utah
in the month of November, 1881. They
settled in Eden, Weber Co., where they

[Column 3]
purchased a good farm and made them a
new home. They received their blessings
in the House of the Lord, and have been
constantly faithful to their duties. Brother
Heninger preceded his faithful wife to the
spirit world nine years and two months.
Sister Heninger was confined to her bed
three weeks, feeling sure that her time had
come and so stated to her family. Her only
desire to live was to work in the Temple
for her dead. Her son Harvey is now on a
mission to his native state, and is gathering
genealogical data. During her last illness
she was filled with the calm, quiet influence
of the Holy Spirit. Those who visited her
and administered unto her were all im-
pressed with the heavenly influence which
was with her.
	She passed peacefully to the world be-
yond without the sting of death, dying in
the Lord, November 24, 1898, surrounded
by all her children except one who is on a
mission to the Southern States. She was
the mother of eight children, two sons and
six daughters, every one of whom has em-
braced the Gospel and is living in the faith
thereof.
	At her funeral consoling remarks were
made by Bishop Pitkin of Millville, Cache
Co., and other Elders well acquainted with
the deceased. Her remains were laid quiet-
ly to rest in the Ogden cemetery, Sunday,
November 27, 1898. She died in the Lord,
she rests from her labors and her works do
follow her. Peace to her memory, she has
fought the good fight, kept the faith and
will receive a crown of eternal life. May
her children be worthy to meet her in the
morning of the First Resurrection.
						[COM.]
ELLA OLNEY HYDE.
	Ella Olney Hyde, wife of Ezra Hyde,
died at Hyde Park, Utah, January 10,
1899, after an illness of eight months. She
leaves a husband and one child, a father,
mother and other relatives to mourn her
loss.
						[COM.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

DATE OF MEETING AND TOPICS TO BE
DISCUSSED.
Members and Friends of the National
Council of Women of the United States:
	The Third Triennial of the National
Council will convene in Washington, D. C.,
February 13. The formal opening will be
preceded by a religious service on the
afternoon of February 12. A prefatory
business meeting will be held in the par-
lors of the Arlington Hotel on Satur-
day evening, February 11. Business
meetings will occupy the mornings of Mon-
day, February 13, and Saturday, February
18. The formal opening will occur on the
evening of Monday, February 13. The
mornings of the 14th-17th, inclusive, and
the evenings of the 13th-18th, inclusive,
will be occupied by public sessions. The
formal adjournment, which is fixed for the
evening of Saturday the 18th, will be fol-
lowed on the afternoon of Sunday the 19th
by a religious service. The meetings will be
held in the Universalist Church, corner of
Tenth and G Streets.
	The term now closing, like the one
which closed with the Triennial of 1895,
has covered a period of four years, instead
of three as contemplated by the constitu-
tion. These years have been fraught with
events the significance of which all men
and women, who, actuated by humanitarian
sentiments, are working in any line of re-
form, feel keenly.
	The program of the Triennial will include:
	First. Discussion and action upon inter-
ests and plans relating strictly to council
affairs.
	Second. Resumes of the achievements of
the closing term and presentation of the
work of the immediate future.
	Third. Discussion of great public inter-
ests from woman’s point of view, including
such topics as expansion, imperialism,
peace and international arbitration, the con-
dition of Hawaiian women, etc.
	One of the most interesting features of
the council’s work will be the presentation
of the progress of the council idea abroad,
and of plans now maturing for the second
quinquennial of the International Council
to be convened in London, England, June
27, 1899, where the National Council of
the United States must have an adequate
representation.
	Council headquarters will be the Arling-
ton Hotel. The railroad secretary (elected
by the executive board at Omaha,) Miss
Lucy E. Anthony, may be addressed at
1830 Diamond Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
	It is the earnest hope of the executive

[Column 2]
board of the National Council that the Third
Triennial will be conspicuous for the ade-
quate representation at its meetings of all
interests included within the council; for
careful preparation for the discussion of the
grave questions that confront all thought-
ful people living in these serious days, and
for the magnanimity and sympathy which
are the essence of the Council idea. May all
members and observers come to the Third
Triennial with the reverent desire to be led
by the light.
	On behalf of the executive:
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, Pres.
	633 North Pennslyvania St., Indianapolis,
Ind.
		LOUISA BARNUM ROBBINS, Cor. Sec.
	25 Broad St., Adrian, Michigan.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


Mrs. Mariana W. Chapman, President of
the New York State W. S. A., writes:
“Please say in the Journal that the thanks
of every local suffrage association in the
State of New York should be sent to
Governor Theodore Roosevelt.” His address
is Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, Executive
Mansion, Albany, N. Y.—Ex.
	Governor Pingree of Michigan made this
recommendation in his message to the
Legislature: “I earnestly recommend that
such legislation be enacted as may be
necessary, requiring the appointment of at
least one woman on the advisory board,
and of at least one woman physician upon
the staff of each State institution, charitable
or corrective, having women or girls as in-
mates.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to be better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1899	NO 18 & 19.


[Column 1]
KHARTOUM AND SIR HORATIO
HERBERT KITCHENER

	Away in far off Africa is a vast stretch of
country known as “The Soudan.” It lies en-
tirely within the tropics and reaches right
across the continent from the Atlantic Ocean
to the Red Sea. While there are, of course,
imaginary limits north and south, its actual
boundaries so far have not been really fixed.
	A large portion of Africa has come under
the “spheres of influence” of different
European nations. By sphere of influence
is meant that “large areas of land in Africa
are recognized as under the control of
European powers. * * * It designates the
region that may be occupied and developed
by the power for which it is named.”
	This great region of country, the Sou-
dan, is largely inhabited, not only by its
native tribes of the negro race but by wild
tribes of fanatical Arabs. For many years
a civilizing influence was brought to bear
upon this wild country, and at last in 1881
Soudan was under a civilized government.
To be sure there were many imperfections
in the administration of affairs, as of neces-
sity there must be under the circumstances.
But trade flourished. Khartoum, the capi-
tal, occupied an important position at the
junction of the White and the Blue Nile.
It became a business center for European
as well as Egyptian commercial firms.
Trade was facilitated by steamers plying
the river. Communication with the outer
world was maintained by post and by tele-
graph, and just when all seemed going well
a war cloud gathered and burst, ravaging
the country and spreading devastation.
	General Gordon, the famous English
soldier, had been Governor-General of the
Soudan for two years, 1877-1879, and dur-
ing that time he had stamped out the slave
trade. As a consequence the slave dealers
felt oppressed. In 1880 Gordon left the
Soudan to act as adviser of the Chinese
government in its relations with Russia.
It was during his absence the strife broke
out.
	We must now for a moment turn our
attention to Egypt. In 1876 the Khedive
of Egypt who had been working to get his
country conducted on modern principles,
found himself practically a bankrupt. He
had to have help from foreign nations.
French and English capitalists loaned large
sums of money, and England and France
sent experts to try and save something and
help “carry on the country.” In 1878 an
Englishman and a Frenchman were ap-
pointed to high offices in the government.
In April of the same year they were dis-
missed by the Khedive. Two months
later the Khedive was deposed by the

[Column 2]
Turkish government, and France and Eng-
land were again represented in the govern-
ment. “In 1882 Arabi Bey fomented an
uprising, the object of which was to restore
Egypt to the Egyptians.” With the help
of the British fleet and the British army they
were successful. “Then France refused to
take any part in carrying on the govern-
ment, so it devolved upon Great Britain.”
And thus France lost her hold upon Egypt.
	It was during this civil strife in Egypt
that the revolt began in the Soudan, July
1881, led by Mohammed Ahmed. The
Mohammedans are represented as being
superstitious, bigoted and fanatical. They
have long looked forward to a Mahdi, the
literal meaning of which is “guided or
directed one.” “According to Mohamme-
dan belief a spiritual and temporal ruler des-
tined to appear on the earth during the last
days. Some sects hold that the Mahdi has
appeared and in concealment awaits the
time of his manifestation. There have
been a number of pretended Mahdis, of
whom the last of importance was this
Mohammed Ahmed.”
	He was a man of the people, of obscure
birth or origin, but was, or pretended to be,
a descendent of the great prophet. He is
described as a great student with probably
a natural religious bent and possessed of in-
tense cunning. So it is “not difficult to im-
agine how easily he drifted into the lead of
one of the most fanatical movements, to
which Easterners are so prone.” This belief
of the Mohammedans is compared to the
Jewish belief in the coming of the Messiah.
	When the people of the Soudan were left
to themselves the enforced good behavior of
the rulers changed and the people felt op-
pressed and unjustly dealt with. The slave
traders were glad to be rid of Gordon’s rule.
The time was ripe for a revolt and a
leader awaiting his opportunity. 	
	This is the story of the beginning of the
siege by the Mahdi. The people inspired
by religious fervor or fanaticism fought as
only such people can. Attempt after at-
tempt was made to crush this revolt, but
the Mahdi came off ever victorious. His
victories inspired the Soudanese with the
greatest enthusiasm and religious zeal, and
they believed they had indeed the expected
Mahdi. The British did what they could
to help the Egyptians, but the flood was
not checked. Gordon had reached Khar-
toum with a command, but by the fall of
Beehu he was completely shut in. He re-
mained at his post hoping against hope, un-
able to accomplish his heart’s desire to
crush the Mahdi. In England the people
were roused to fever heat and a relief ex-
pedition was sent to Gordon. This expedi-
tion had to fight the most bitter fights to get
to its destination, and arrived, alas, just too
late! Gordon had been most foully slain,
and England had to mourn the loss of a
great leader and many brave men. Gor-
don’s personal characteristics made him one
of the celebrities of the world. His death
occurred January 26, 1885. A statue to
him has been erected in Trafelgar square,
London. Khartoum, of course, fell before
the enemy, the city being destroyed.


[Column 1]
	“Although the Mahdi himself died in
June 1885, the movement he had originated
suffered no check. * * * By the end of
that year Mahdism reigned supreme
throughout the Soudan.” And even the
southern part of Egypt fell under that
power. But soon dissensions arose among
the Arabs. The Khalifa, successor to the
Mahdi, was a western Arab and treated the
easterners with cruelty. Things continued
in a turmoil until the spring of 1898, when
General Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener having.
been put in command, he at the head of a
powerful army composed of British soldiers
and troops of the Khedive, completely
overcame and subdued the fanatical rebels.
His victory was a most brilliant one and
caused the greatest rejoicing throughout the
British Empire, and indeed throughout the
civilized world.
	Like many another brave British leader
Kitchener is an Irishman by birth. It is
said that “he is a soldier by inheritance, by
training and by instinct.” He is forty-
eight years of age, tall, measuring full six
feet, and with the swarthy complexion that
would be but natural after years of exposure
to the tropical sun. Most of his service
has been in the far East, and he has ac-
quired a remarkable knowledge of Moham-
medan languages and tribes. This knowl-
edge has been of great service to him at
times. The following story is told as an
instance:
	“Two Arab date sellers were arrested as
suspected spies and confined in the guard
tent. Shortly after a third Arab prisoner
was hastily bundled into the tent. An
animated jabbering ensured among the
three and in a few minutes, much to the
astonishment, of the sentry, the latest ar-
rival drew aside the doorway and stepped
out, remarking, ‘All right, sentry, I’m
going to the General.’ It was Kitchener.
Again only a few minutes passed when an
orderly hurried up and a spade was handed
to the two Arabs, who were marched out-
side the lines, ordered to dig their graves,
and were shot. They were spies, and
Kitchener had detected them.”
	The glory of Kitchener’s successful and
splendid expedition consisted as much in
the way the soldiers were cared for under
adverse circumstances, as in the wonderful
fighting.
	Oudurman, a little north of Khartoum, is
the successor to that fallen city. General
Gordon expressed a preference for having
the capital at Oudurman, or even a little
farther north on the right bank of the Nile,
as the location of Khartoum was very un-
healthy and the cost of making it healthy
would be very great. It was at Oudurman
that the Khalefa’s army met with such ter-
rible slaughter. His men came bravely
forth to meet Kitchener’s Anglo-Egyptian
troops, but owing to the machine guns of
the English the massacre, was great. The
number of men of the Khalifa left dead on
the field has been variously estimated at
from five to twenty thousand.
	In the earlier stages of Kitchener’s ex-
pedition it was seriously feared that the
French were preparing to cut across from
their holdings in western Soudan to a point
on the Nile above Khartoum, at or about
Fashoda, for the sake of preventing the
English from going any further. “The
seriousness of such a proposition can only
be understood when one remembers the
peculiar nature of the Nile. If the French
were in full possession even at so remote a
point as Fashoda, they could at any time

[Column 2]
they chose so divert the water as to ruin
the whole of Egypt, which owes its life to
the periodical overflow and to irrigation.”
	This Fashoda affair threatened strained
relations for a time between England and
France. But the French now disclaim it
as anything but a private exploring party,
that there was no disposition in any quarter
to oppose the further advance of the Eng-
lish. And it is further stated that when
Kitchener arrived at Fashoda he found
Major Marchand there with only seven or
eight white men and a handful of native
Africans.
	It has been estimated that the victory of
the United States over Spain resulted in the
material improvement of 8,000,000 people in
the Phillipines, and 2,000,000 or more in
the West Indies.
	Kitchener’s splendid expedition brought
even greater succor and blessings to the
million of human beings in Eastern Soudan.
The fanatical movement of the Mahdi’s
resulted in the absolute closing up of one of
the most prosperous regions of the whole
African continent, a region at that time oc-
cupied by no less than 12,000,000 people.
This population was reduced to about one
half, agriculture and trade destroyed and
the country desolated. Happier and more
prosperous times may now be looked for.
There seems to be nothing in the Way
now of Cecil Rhodes great project of build-
ing a through railroad from Capetown to
Cairo.
	Kitchener is unmarried and will have no
married officers under him. He is a strict
disciplinarian, of impassive countenance.
And while his manners do not win the love
of his men, he has their profoundest respect
and sincerest admiration. He is described
as quiet but clever, and perhaps his severe
life and strict necessities have made him
apparently cold and stern. At all events
he is a great general and the pride of the
British people.
	After the victory in the Soudan, Kitchen-
er visited England accompanied by some of
his English and Egyptian officers. They
were received with unbounded enthusiasm,
being banqueted and toasted and in a
general way made to feel the great esteem
and appreciation in which they were held.
						E. S. W.


NIGHT WINDS.

The cold night wind is moaning
	And sighing amid the trees;
It flies o'er the wooded highland
	And sinks o’er the downy leas.
It catches the sails of the vessel
	That ploughs through the ocean wide;
And wafts its streamers landward
	With the strong and rolling tide.
But O, how it sobs at the window,
	And wails as it rushes by;
Like cries of the souls of the lost ones,
	Who trembled and feared to die.
Far away in the dreary distance
	I hear it sighing still,
And my heart but echoes t[-]e sadness
	That nothing of heart can fill.
And now it groans like the living
	When life’s faint spark has fled;
As they bow in deepest sorrow
	Around the newly dead.
And now it sounds like music
	From a harp of a thousand strings;
And then like sweetest melody
	That earthly chorus sings.
Now it sounds like a living thing
	That is haunted and full of pain;
And then it weeps for the doomed ones,
	Whose sins arise again.
And then it laughs in derision,
	And mocks at human woe;
Then rushing it reaches the mountains,
	Then over to valleys below.
And now like a saddening memory
	It calls up the troubled Past;
A harvest of hopes that were blighted,
	Too radiant and sunny to last.
Now again it cries like an infant,
	And now is mad with glee;—
O, God save the father fishermen
	Far out on the stormy sea.
This wind is playing with heartstrings,
	As it roams abroad tonight;
O, pray that the storm-tossed mariner
	May see the morning’s light.
Down by the open fireplace
	Sits Fear, so pallid and cold;
While the wind is rattling the window,
	In its dance of the demons bold.
But O, when it sobs like the human
	I think my heart will break!
Then out in the deepest darkness
	Steals a prayer for the wanderer's sake.
Again it sounds like an army
	Marching and tramping along;
Now the thunder of heavy cannon,
	Is heard with the victor’s song.


Then over the hills in the distance 
	The sound is lost and gone;
While brightening far to the eastward 
	Comes the morning pale and wan.
Now its moans are fast receding,
	As it softly goes to sleep;
In the rock-bound, foaming caveens
	Of the mighty ocean’s deep.
				LYDIA D. ALDER


CONTENTS:
	Khartoum and Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener
—E. S. W. Sister Horne’s Birthday—E. J. S.
Visit to California—Hattie M Nye. Reorganiza-
tion—Abby A. Piggott. San Francisco Letter—
Rhoda C. Nash. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting
J. S. Woolley, Sec. In Memoriam Obituary.
The Bon Marche—S. L. Margaret Chanler and
Anna Bouling. Colorado goes on Record.
U. W. P. C.—L. D. Alder, Act. Sec.
	EDITORIAL:—Official Notice. The Triennial.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Night Winds—Lydia D. Alder.
History of the Silk Worm—M. V. N Hall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
SISTER HORNE’S BIRTHDAY.
	Sunday, November 20, the 80th birth-
day of our beloved and respected Stake
president, Sister M. I. Horne. The day
is quite emblematic—the snow coming
down so pure and white is like what her
grand life has been. To me it was very
pleasing to see so large a congregation as-
sembled at the Assembly Hall yesterday
to celebrate the birth and do honor to one
who has done so much good, and to listen
to the remarks made by the different
speakers. 
	It will be forty-four years next month
since I first met Sister Horne in company
at the home of President John Taylor’s
father, many notable persons being present;
but when introduced to Sister Horne I was
forcibly struck with her motherly appear-
ance and kindly countenance.
	Having lived within a block from her
from that time until she moved from
the Fourteenth ward, I have had ample
opportunity to become acquainted with her.
To me she has been a model woman,
thoroughly domesticated, but modest and

[Column 2]
unassuming. I became identified with the
Relief Society at its reorganization after the
move South, Sister Horne being chosen
president, having previously been coun-
selor to Sister Phebe W. Woodruff. I well
remember how unassuming and gentle she
always seemed in conducting the affairs of
the society, yet firm in all her ways, but
never any arrogance so characteristic of
some. I do not forget how she would in-
tercede with the sisters to do their duty and
laid plans, and persevered in having the
society hall built there; that being com-
pleted paid for and dedicated, how she again
planned for the building of a granary.
President Young counseled each society to
build a hall and a granary as soon as prac-
tiable. She did not procrastinate but
called on the brethren to assist and they re-
sponded. That being accomplished, paid
for and dedicated, she then instructed the
society teachers each fall to gather donations
for wheat; and the motherly care she be-
stowed over that grain!
	I well remember on one occasion in talk-
ing to the sisters having so much to accom-
plish how she plead with them saying,
“Sisters, this is not my society, but our
society.” That went right home. I felt
that I was willing to do any thing in my
power to assist that noble woman; and
many more reminiscences I might mention.
Her family is an example to the community.
What a Heavenly blessing! but that wo-
man honored her husband, and her husband
honored her. I have always felt that this
was the secret of their success. While
raising her family she was content to stay
at home and attend to her first duty, and
not trust those God-given treasures to the
care of others. And now, behold the second
mission she has filled.
	My young sisters, let us emulate her ex-
ample, and let us lead our children to be-
gin the right way, and then continue doing
so. Let us teach our sons to honor their
wives, our daughters to honor their hus-
bands, that peace and content may abide in
the homes of the Saints.
	Oh, what a mission there is for each and
all of us if we will but fill it! May heaven’s
richest blessings rest upon Sister Horne and
all apertaining to her and may the
mementoes presented to her yesterday be-
token her sisters’ good feelings and be a
comfort to her; and may she live in peace
and happiness and continue her labors of
love until she is satisfied with life, is the
sincere desire of one who loves to honor her
and desires to testify to her goodness, hav-
ing known and labored with her so many
years.
						E. J. S.


A German biologist has calculated that
the human brain contains 300,000,000 nerve
cells, 5,000,000 of which die and are suc-
ceeded by new ones every day. At this
rate, assuming the correctness of the Ger-
man’s guess, we get an entirely new brain
every sixty days.—Medical Record.
	The statement by some of the daily press
that the Daughters of the Revolution ad-
mit collateral descendants of revolutionary
patriots is effectually disposed of by the
following extract from their constitution:
	Article III., Section I.—Qualifications.
Any woman shall be eligible to member-
ship in the Daughters of the Revolution
who is above the age of eighteen years, of
good character, and a lineal descendant of
an ancestor, who, etc.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO CALIFORNIA.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	The souls of the Saints, especially the
sisters of the Relief Society throughout this
mission, have been made to rejoice by
reason of the fact that we have received a
visit from Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden.
During the latter part of December Sister
Richards accompanied her son, Hon. C. C.
Richards, and wife who were seeking health
and rest and came to Los Angeles. While
there Sister Richards visited the Relief
Society of the branch of the Saints of that
city and had an opportunity of seeing a lit-
tle how they were getting along, and of in-
structing them along the line of Relief
Society work as it is carried on in Zion.
	We have a good society in Los Angeles.
Sister Woollacott, now visiting her daugh-
ter in Salt Lake City, is the president and
she has a good company of officers and
members considering the size and strength
of the branch. They are devoted to the
work of the Lord and are faithful workers
in the society. The president is a good
leader among women and by her wise and
careful management and the hearty support
rendered by the society they have always
got money in the treasury with which to
assist the needy. Sister Richards did much
to encourage and strengthen them in their
noble work.
	About the 24th of January President
Franklin D. Richards honored us by a
visit to this mission and arrived in San
Diego, Sister Richards having reached there
a few days before. On the 26th they to-
gether attended the Relief Society meeting
which convened in the house of Brother
Charles H. Hoag, the branch president,
and though they were few in number, yet
when President Jewel had conducted the
opening services and Sister Richards pro-
ceeded in that wondrously kind and plea-
sant way so peculiar to her to tell them of
the trials and afflictions through which the
Saints had to pass in the days of the Prophet
Joseph and the early days of Utah, of the
blessings of the Lord that had been show-
ered down upon them as a reward for their
obedience and devotion, and of the present
standard of usefulness they have attained
through their untiring labors in the great
work, the sisters listened with rapt atten-
tion the while, the love of God enkindled
in their hearts, filling their souls with light
and joy and causing a sense of deep appre-
ciation of the Gospel to fill them such as
they had never before experienced. The
spirit of the Almighty accompanied the
words of dear Sister Richards in a most re-
markable way as she dwelt upon the earlier
scenes of the Church. President Richards
spoke words of comfort and blessing to all.
	On the Sabbath besides attending regular
services in the hall Sister Richards met with
the Primary Association at the home of
Sister Gabrelson, and there after the exer-
cises of the little ones, which were indeed
most creditable both to the children and to
Sister Buehorn who has charge of them,
she talked to these little ones until she won
a place in their dear little hearts that she
will retain while they live.
	After spending about ten days in that re-
nowned but greatly over estimated health
resort, San Diego, the party consisting of
President F. D. Richards, Sister Jane S.
Richards and their son Charles and wife re-
turned to Los Angeles, the latter on their
way to Utah, while the president and wife

[Column 2]
remained and attended the meetings of the
Saints on the Sabbath at 245 1/2 South Spring
Street. This branch through the untiring
efforts of the Elders who have labored here
and the blessings of the Lord has grown
and increased in numbers and is our strong-
est branch in the mission, numbering about
one hundred and thirty members. There
is a good Relief Society, Mutual Improve-
ment Association and Sabbath School, all
in splendid condition.
	Brother and Sister Richards attended the
Sabbath School and the meeting that fol-
lowed, it being fast day, and mingled their
testimonies with those of the Saints, and
their soul-inspiring words were as precious
gems to the Saints, many of whom had
never before listened to the sound of the
voice of a living Apostle.
	When the visit at Los Angeles was ended
the party took train for San Francisco, and
the headquarters of the California mission
became the resting place of our beloved
Sister Jane S. Richards and her husband.
Be assured, dear editor, we all regarded
ourselves as highly honored in having the
privilege of entertaining such distinguished
persons as an Apostle of the Lord and his
precious life companion. This may sound
somewhat strange to some of the readers of
the “Exponent,” but if they had to spend
their time among the wicked and ungodly
in the midst of a mess of man made re-
ligions, the principal elements of which are
doubt and uncertainty, they would learn,
perhaps, as we have, to appreciate the
privilege of beholding a servant of the true
and living God, and of listening to the
words of life and salvation from his mouth.
	The Relief Society of the branch in this
city, of which Sister Rattenbery is the
president, convened on Thursday at 3 p. m.
at the mission house, and after some local
matters had been attended to Sister Rich-
ards addressed the meeting, and I would
that we could give a verbatim report of her
speech and that of President Richards who
followed, if for no other purpose than that
we might have them to refer to here, for
they sparkled with gems of thought crystal-
ized into words which as they fell upon the
ear caused the souls of all that heard them
to thrill with joy.
	A surprise party was projected by the
sisters so that the president and his wife
could see how the San Francisco Saints con-
ducted such gatherings. On Thursday
evening about 8 p. m. the mission house
was besieged by the attacking party which
soon gained an entrance and filled the house
to its utmost capacity. Over a hundred
were present. A program of songs, reci-
tations, etc., and then a speech from Presi-
dent Richards, smiling faces, happy hearts
and love abounded.
	Brother and Sister Richards visited the
homes of some of the Saints, Sister Collins
of this city, Sister Sumner of Oakland, and
then took their departure for Sacramento
where on Sunday the 12th they met with
the Sabbath School and forenoon meeting,
and then at 3 p m. with the Relief Society
at the home of Sister Smith, 405 15th St.
Sister Fanny H. Thackham, the president,
in an appropriate manner welcomed the
visitors from Zion. The sisters all testified
to their love of the Gospel, and of their de-
termination to remain steadfast to the end.
Sister Richards strewed pearls of pricely
value in her speech, among them such as
will be remembered by all who were pres-
ent for many a day, while President Rich-
ards spoke forth words of encouragement

[Column 3]
and blessing. In the evening at our regu-
lar hall President Richards was the speak-
er and he delivered a good sermon to Saints
and investigators who had gathered in to
hear the word of God. On the day follow-
ing President and Sister Richards took their
leave for their home in Ogden.
	We in this land of sunshine and flowers,
of drouth and earthquake, of Christian
churches and infidel congregations, of
gigantic ideas and small souled Christian
ministers, deeply appreciate a visit from the
tried and trusted leaders of the true Church
of Christ.
				HATTIE M. NYE.


HISTORY OF  HE S[-]LK WORM.

'Twas the 13th of May in 1898,
We are quite sure about the date,
For on that day the first worms hatched,
And on the 14th the second batch.
On the 15th no worms did gladden our sight[-]
But on the 16th a fine lot came out all right;
On the 17th only a very small lot,
But on the 18th they made it hot.
On the 19th of May our hatch was ended,
And with hopes and fears continually blended
Lest they should be too hot or too cold,
Our trials and troubles can scarce be told.
We were up every morn when the clock struck
	five,
For an early feed would make them thrive,
'Twas gather leaves here, and gather leaves
	there,
With never a moment to sit on a chair
At first on one row they nicely lay,
But on one row they would not stay,
But quickly spread to a dozen or more,
While our labors were increased fourscore.
But just when we thought we couldn't live,
For the constant cry of the worms was Give
Oh give me leaves, or you will see,
Not an ounce of silk will we make for thee.
On the 27th of June, on the end of a shelf,
We found what to us was better than pelf,
'Twas a single fibre, or silken thread,
This told the tale and ended the dread,
That had entered our souls, our work was
	done.
No longer now from sun to sun,
Must we gather leaves, but down on a chair
We can quietly sit, and stare and stare,
At the worms while they hide themselves from
	sight,
Rolled up in a ball so snug and tight.
This ends the story of the silk worm's life,
Composed of hope and fear, joy and strife.
M. V. N. HALL.


New and hygienically constructed tele-
phone stations have been provided in Vien-
na, and with them has come a reform in
the dress of the telephone girl. Experience
has proved that the dust lodging on the
clothes of the girls gets into the instruments
and interferes with the effectiveness of the
service. To avoid this the girls are now
required to wear a uniform during office
hours. On their arrival they doff their
street clothes, even their boots, and substi-
tute dresses provided by the government.
The dresses are made of stuff like that most
used for dust cloaks. They are dark in
color, and on the sleeves are yellow stripes,
in imitation of the national colors. Chicago
has adopted the same method to reduce
dust in the operating rooms.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street, Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15 & MAR. 1, 1899.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	At a special meeting of the Board of
Directors of the National Woman’s Relief
Society held March 7, in room 208 Temple-
ton building, (more than the required num-
ber for the transaction of business being
present), when the subject of ways and
means was being considered, a motion was
made by Mrs. Martha A. Cannon of Ogden
and seconded by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp of
Salt Lake City, that all money raised by
local branches of the Relief Society on the
17th of March over the ten cent member-
ship of each member enrolled in the society,
should be retained by the respective society.
Motion was put by President Zina D. H.
Young and carried unanimously,
	(Signed) ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President.
EMMELINE B WELLS Secretary.
	National Woman's Relief Society.


[Column 1]
THE TRIENNIAL.

SOME OF THE WOMEN, SUBJECTS,
DISCUSSIONS AND REPORTS.

	The women from Utah who went to
Washington in February to attend the
Triennial sessions of the National Council
of Women of the United States, have had
an interesting experience to say the least,
especially those who went as presidents
(proxies,) delegates and members of the
Resolution Committee. As every one knows
who has been connected with such great
national bodies, the hard work and really
most important is done in committees.
	Speech making is comparatively easy, more
especially so when prepared beforehand,
which the addresses certainly should be on
any given subject, and not written at odd
moments or on the way as some very busy
people are apt to do in the hurry that
comes from overwork. If one accustomed
to public duty might be permitted to sug-
gest the advice would be to take the ut-
most pains with the papers to be given as ad-
dresses to an audience of cultured people.
Random shots come in occasionally, but it is
the steady, deliberate firing that accom-
plishes the objects seriously undertaken.
	The Resolution Committee consisted of
one member from each organization belong-
ing to the Council and numbered twenty-
five persons, representing various shades of
opinion on many vital subjects, Rev. Anna
Garlin Spencer, Providence, R. I., chair-
man; Ann M. Cannon, Salt Lake City,
Utah, secretary.

[Column 2]
	The stormy weather was a hindrance to
the members arriving in time, although
eight of the Utah ladies arrived in time to
attend the business session Saturday eve-
ning, the 11th. The following day there
was a blinding snow storm which kept
pedestrians within doors and very few car-
riages appeared on the streets. The papers
published the names of all the ladies who
attended church, the weather was so in-
clement. Snow continued to fall during
the night and the wind increased in violence
and on Monday morning there were only a
few to attend the opening of the Council.
Business of importance, however, was
transacted and lunch served in the rooms
in the church at a nominal price. The
storm had been continuous thro’ the day
and the wind blew fiercely, and when the
time for adjournment came the query was
how to get to hotels or boarding places.
Carriages with drivers that dared venture
out were taken by those who could get to
them first, and some living only a short dis-
tance ventured to walk at great risk. Such
adventures as were told in the papers after-
wards had never before transpired in Wash-
ington. On the streets men with handker-
chiefs over their faces were buffeting the
snow and wind, their hats flying hither and
thither.
	Some of the subjects considered and
papers read were "Christianity as Related to
Sociology," dealing with the practical side of
religion, by Mary Perkins Davis, Ocean
Park, Maine. “The Possibilities of Wo-
man,” by Martha Horne Tingey of Salt
Lake City, Utah, a paper which showed
earnest thought and advanced ideas of life.
“The Social Conscience, in its Relation to
Industrial Problems,” by Mrs. Maud Nath-
an of New York City. It is one of the vital
questions of the present day and the speak-
er showed earnest feelings in her dealings
with the matter in question, and that she
was thoroughly acquainted with industrial
conditions, and dealt eloquently and heroic-
ally with actual facts. “The Tree of
Knowledge of Good and Evil," by Miss
Sadie American of Chicago was perhaps the
most unique as a whole of any paper pre-
sented. Miss American is very original in
her work and deals mainly with actual facts
in a positive manner. "The Retrogression
in Equal Rights,” by Susan B. Anthony,
who never fails to make strong points in
the most forcible manner, and who is al-
ways in touch with her audience and never
fails to create enthusiasm whatever views
people may entertain as to the subject mat-
ter of her address. “The Beginning of
Literature and Art in America,” by Mrs.
Maria Purdy Peck of Dubuque, Iowa, was
a charming address on a delightful theme.
St. Hilda of Whitby—“How Abbesses
were Educators and Civilizers,” by Mary
Newbury Adams, was one of the most
delightful and soulful papers given, the
speaker herself, a most charming woman;
but one hesitates to particularize where there
were so many capable, cultivated, intellec-
tual women. "Good Citizenship," by Mrs.
E. B. Wells of Utah. “Is the Church
Universal a Hindrance or a Help to the
Development of Womankind?” by Eliza-
beth B. Grannis of New York.
	The papers for discussion were of very
great interest, especially upon vital ques-
tions. One of the subjects was “Is Ex-
pansion for the Best Good of our Country?"
Affirmative, Judith Ellen Foster, District of
Columbia; Negative, Cornelia S. Robinson,
New York. The same evening “The Wo-

[Column 3]
men of Hawaii,” by Susa Young Gates, a
very ably written and exhaustive paper on
the conditions, customs and ethics of the
natives, and some expression of real life by
Hannah Kaepapa, the pretty custom of
the laie was given in an object lesson on
the platform by seven very handsome
wreaths being presented to the ladies of the
general officers by Mrs. Gates and the
native lady. Mrs. Sewall, the president,
Dr. Shaw, the vice president, and the
other officers gracefully acknowledging the
courtesy by wearing them the entire eve-
ning. “Equality, the most Potent Conserv-
ator of Human Rights,” by Ida M. Weaver
of Idaho. "Fraternal Life Benefit Societies
as Social Institutions,” Bina M. West,
Michigan.
	There was also a Symposium on "What
should be the Attitude of the Women of
the United States toward the Peace Confer-
ence proposed by the Czar?" This awak-
ened universal interest and was eloquently
emphasized and elaborated by Rev. Anna
Garlin Spencer of R. I., Carrie Thomas,
Alexander, Ill., Kate Waller Barrett, D.
C., and Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, Penn.
“The Relation Between the Council and
Peace and Arbitration," by Rev. Amanda
Deyo, Penn., was one of the most interest-
ing in the general discussion. “How can
Women Aid in Municipal Reform?”
These discussions were all very educational
and carried on sympathetically, each speak-
er having a certain number of minutes.
	Reports of organizations were also of
great interest and much appreciated, as
they showed the growth and progress of the
various associations during the period since
the last Triennial in 1895. These were
from the following societies: National
Free Baptist Woman’s Missionary Society,
Mary G. Osgood, New Hampshire: Uni-
versal Peace Union, Rev. Amanda Deyo;
Working Woman’s Home Association Dr.
Mary E. Green, Michigan; The Woman’s
National Press Association, Ellen S. Crom-
well, D. C.; Florence Crittenden Missions,
Kate Waller Barrett, D. C.; National Wo-
man’s Relief Society, Zina Young Card,
Utah; Wimodaughsis, Ada G. Dickerson,
D.C.; National Christian League for the
Promotion of Social Purity, Elizabeth
B Grannis, New York; National Woman’s
Christian Temperance Union, Lillian M.
N. Ste ens, Maine; Supreme Hive Ladies of
the Maccabees of the World, Lillian M.
Hollister, Michigan; Rathbone Sisters of
the World, Ida M. Weaver, Idaho; Nation-
al Mutual Improvement Association, Min-
nie J. Snow, Utah; National American
Woman’s Suffrage Association, Rachel
Foster Avery; National Council of Jewish
Women, Hannah G. Solomon, Ill.; Nation-
al Association of Women Stenographers,
Mrs. Maddox; Anti Vivisection Society,
Mrs. Lovell, Quincy, Ill.
	There were reports from local councils
and state councils affiliated, and fraternal
delegates introduced from organizations and
councils not yet affiliated; also reports of
standing committees which were quite as
interesting as those of society work. Com-
mittees on Education in Citizenship, by
Fannie Humphreys Gaffney, New York,
and Press Committee, Susa Young Gates,
Utah. On Social Peace and International
Arbitration, Hannah G. Solomon, Ill.
	The ideas, aims and grasp of knowledge
embodied in these addresses and reports and
the discussious which intervened, the in-
formation and instruction given, and the
educational facilities afforded, are far great-


er than one can possibly imagine who has
not been present in person, with mind and
soul susceptible to the uplifting influences
that flow from high intellectuality and in-
telligence of a superior order. The value
of the National Council cannot be estimated,
the movement of this great body of women
of diverse views and opinions, and a great
variety of dissimilarity of tastes and char-
acteristics coming together on the momen-
tous questions of the day and agreeing to
disagree, is an object lesson for the world.
	The letter of Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson,
the president during this last Triennial un-
til forced by her illness and the protestations
of her physician to resign, was one of the
striking features of the session, in its pathos
speaking heart to heart, and its expressions
of what the Council would have been to
her had she not from force of circumstances
been obliged to withdraw from the position.
	The address of the retiring president Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, bristled with original
ideas and suggestions, as also did her “Rec-
ommendations to the Cabinet.” One might
write columns upon this subject, but as it
will be published in full for circulation
among members of organizations belonging
to the Council, all who wish will have an
opportunity to study its contents.
	The resolutions adopted, which were the
chief work of its committee, and the plans
laid out for the future furtherance of the
Council's work during the next three years
we must leave for the next issue of the
paper, also much that is interesting in mat-
ters not practically essential to the Council
itself, as well as the blockades, blizzards,
delayed trains, and minor items.
	The two living presidents who have filled
terms of office were made Honorary Presi-
dents with a vote. They are Mary Lowe
Dickinson and May Wright Sewall.
	The new officers elected were, Prest.,
Fannie Humphreys of New York City;
Vice Prest., Maria Purdy Peck, Dubu-
que, Iowa; Cor. Sec., Mrs Kate Waller
Barrett, Washington, D. C.; Rec. Sec.,
Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer, R. I.; Asst.
Rec. Sec., Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake
City, Utah; Treasurer, Hannah G. Solo-
mon, Chicago.
	Members of the Cabinet are not yet ap-
pointed, nor any new standing committees.
The idea of grouping the societies under
certain departments has been advanced
and may be acted upon. The next busi-
ness session will be held in November of
the present year at Indianapolis, Indiana.
	Meantime the International Council in
London will hold its Quinquennial, and the
National Council of the United States will
have its quota of representation Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, the late president of the
Council will be installed as president of
the International Council. Miss Susan B.
Anthony and Dr. Anna H. Shaw are the
delegates from the National Council.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Stake secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety in all the several Stakes of Zion and of
missions or branches of the Relief Society
where Stakes are not organized, are hereby
requested to send statistical and financial re-
ports for the entire year of 1898, to the
general secretary, room 208 Templeton
building, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
		E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.

	The Utah Legislature is drawing to a


close, and much of the valuable time has
been frittered away in voting for a Senator
to little or no purpose. It is very undigni-
fied and unsatisfactory to the people who
elected them to waste so much time in
complimentary and uncomplimentary speech
making, and delay serious matters which
should have been acted upon.
	President Jane S. Richards who recently
visited California gives a most interesting
account of the branches of the ReliefSociety
in that state. She speaks in the highest
terms of praise of the untiring efforts of the
sisters in their labors of love and the good
spirit enjoyed by them, in which she par-
ticipated. The pleasure they expressed in
her being present and speaking encourag-
ingly to them in their society meetings is
deeply felt and warmly appreciated by Sis-
ter Richards, whose love for the work of
the Relief Society stimulates her to under-
take much more than her delicate health
would warrant. To the writer in the office
of the “Exponent” she expressed the most
loving tenderness, interest and sympathy in
all the sisters in these branehes, and it is her
ardent desire to have them feel their good
works are appreciated in Zion.
	We must express our great satisfaction in
meeting with many dear old friends while
absent in the East, and among others Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who is more
beautiful than any picture of her could be
made, for she shows the eloquent beauty of
the soul within, and her soft white hair in
the loose puffs is like a halo above her
sweet, tender, motherly face. She con-
verses as pleasantly as ever and is as bril-
liant and witty as in her palmiest days.
We shall never forget in time or eternity
how grandly Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anth-
ony received the first Utah delegates, (Mrs.
Wells aud Mrs, Williams) in the Conven-
tion at Washington in January, 1879, and
we shall always honor these two noble wo-
men, the grandest types of American
womanhood. 
	Another dear old friend who plead our
cause most eloquently in those days long
ago, and whom we always make a point of
calling upon when we go to Washington,
D. C., is Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer who
should never be forgotten by the Latter-
day Saints; she has been a staunch friend,
and manifested her valor in the hour of
greatest need, and when strong men were
less courageous in defense of the right.


REORGANIZATION.
	Minutes of the annual meeting of the 8th
ward Relief Society held February 4th,
1899, Vice President S. J. Chamberlain
presiding. The secretary called the roll,
after which the vice president stated that
the business of the meeting was to hear the
annual reports and the election of officers,
(on account of the death of the president,
Kathrine K. Palmer) for the ensuing two
years. The reports were read and approved.
Sarah J. Chamberlain was elected president;
Ann Cartwright, 1st vice president; Martha
A. Shelmerdine, 2nd vice president; Abby
A. Piggott, secretary; Elizabeth C. Frost,
treasurer, the vote in each case being
unanimous. Martha Morris was elected to
fill the vacancy in the board of trustees
caused by Martha A. Shelmerdine being
chosen vice president. Anna E. Hunter
and Louie Chamberlain were received as


members of the society. It was moved and
seconded that the minutes be accepted as
read; carried.
	ABBY A. PIGGOTT, Sec.


SAN FRANClSCO LETTER.

Dear Sister Wells:

	It may be of interest to some of the read-
ers of the “Exponent” to know that in far
off San Francisco there are a few Saints
who are striving assiduously for that goal
which the precious truths of the Gospel has
placed within the reach of suffering, strug-
gling humanity, viz., the salvation of the
soul.
	There are but few, comparatively speak-
ing, who have been gathered from the sin
and temptation existing in this great city,
the enormity of which none can conceive
except those who have lived here and per-
sonally observed the conditions existing
morally, spiritually and socially; and when
we consider that out of three hundred
thousand people the Saints number probab-
ly two hundred all told, we cannot but con-
clude that the good seeds which fell by the
wayside have, been almost entirely choked
out by the thrifty growth of the tares.
	* * *
	There are many who do not sense the
imminent danger which threatens them;
they are blind to the fact that there is a
future in which the immutable decree has
gone forth that“all men must be judged ac-
cording to the deeds done in the body,”
but are content to drift along with the tide,
ministering to the selfish, sensual appetites
which are generated and encouraged by
luxurious living, seeking only the pleasures
of today, uninfluenced by the possibility of
a tomorrow.
	To cast aside the every day routine of
worldly pleasures and become a follower of
Jesus Christ is a sacrifice but few can make,
albeit, those who have become Saints are
sincere, honest, earnest people.
	This branch of the Latter-day Saints is
in a prosperous condition and ably presided
over by President Woodward. Our meet-
ings are fairly attended, especially on Sun-
day evenings. Usually the congregation is
so large it is necessary to arrange extra
seats for the accomodation of all present.
The visitors are attentive, and as a rule
seem to be a class of people who come for
information and not to disturb.
	Sister Ratenbury, a lady possibly re-
membered by many of the old residents of
Salt Lake City for her ability to quote
Shakespeare, has the Relief Society in
charge, and not only the poor and needy
are ministered to by this organization but
also the Elders, whose clothes are reno-
vated and hosiery restored to a useful con-
dition by the sisters on their work days.
	The M. I. Associations are under the
control of Brother Collins and Sister Cum-
mings, formerly of Salt Lake City, and are
completely organized and fully equipped for
mutual improvement.
	The little ones bright and active, ready
and willing to assist, by their little efforts in
making their flourishing organization on an
equality with the ideal Primaries of Utah,
are presided over by Sister Woodward, wife
of President Woodward.
	Indeed the Saints are all zealous, earnest
workers, striving for the same grand prize
which ultimately is received by all those
who live faithfully and according to the
commandments of Him who rewardeth


liberally and upbraideth not. It is gratify-
ing beyond words to know that although
separated from the nucleus of Christ’s King-
dom the subjects thereof are loyal and faith-
ful, and whose impetus to right and proper
living is that grandest and most glorious of
rewards, eternal life.
				Your sister.
					RHODA C. NASH
	San Francisco, Feb. 27, 1899.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall January 21,1899,
with Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
Singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Counselor Webb. Singing, “O
say what is truth.” Minutes read and ac-
cepted. Sister Annie T. Hyde stated that
President Horne was not able to be present
but that Sister Priscilla J. Riter had been
chosen to be superintendent of the nurses
who had been trained for Relief Society
work by Dr. Roberts, that President Horne
had sent a letter suggesting that a com-
mittee be appointed to solicit for bedding
etc., also to visit the drug stores and see
what discount they would give on drugs, or
anything that might be needed in their line.
Said, “Sister Riter will engage the nurse,
and she will go out under her direction and
report to her when through. Sister Riter
will visit the sick at least once.” Sister
Hyde advised the nurses to make them-
selves competent and desirable help.
	Sister Riter addressed the meeting a few
moments. Said she felt it a great responsi-
bility that had been placed upon her, and
also wished to have the support of the
nurses as she expected to give them hers.
Advised them to be united and forgiving.
Told them she did not want them to be
overburdened, but come and talk over with
her any dissatisfaction that might exist
while in her employ.
	Dr. Roberts hoped the strong bond of
love would exist between Sister Riter and
the nurses that existed between herself and
these students. Hoped all would start out
on a two years’ mission, and do anything
that was necessary for the comfort of the
sick, rise above annoyances and criticisms.
"It is understood the sick can have prefer-
ences and express them in regard to the
nurse, but no nurse is expected to go out
without being under the direction of Sister
Riter.”
	A sewing meeting was appointed for
February 3, in the Relief Society hall in
the 14th ward.
	Counselor Stevenson praised the Lord
that the sick could thus be provided with
nurses. She felt that the hand of the Lord
was in this work. Desired all to pray for
the recovery of President Horne.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Benediction by Sister Clara C. Cannon.

Minutes of Semi-monthly meeting held
February 11, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding. Sing-
ing, “O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer by
Sister E. Paul. Singing, “O, awake my
slumbering minstrel. Minutes read and
approved.
	Counselor Stevenson said she was sorry
President Horne was not able to come to-
day. Spoke of having visited the Relief
Society conference of Pocatello. Though
they did not have the advantages we have
they seemed as if they were advancing fast-
er than we were in some things. They

[Column 2]
were surrounded by some who were not of
our faith; had the privilege of converting
some. Advised mothers to. take the Juve-
nile and good literature, and exhorted them
to be humble and God fearing.
	Sister Barnes gave some good, motherly
advice. Sister Julia C. Howe said we met
to be strengthened by the spirit of God, we
were surrourided bymany temptations,
especially the young people, and it is neces-
sary to put safe guards around them. She
often wondered what she would do without
the Relief Society, thought it so necessary
that our young people should attend their
meetings, and also to interest the young
ladies in the Relief Society. Spoke of the
great responsibilities of mothers in rearing
their children.
	Sister Liddle realized that her greatest
trial had proved to be her greatest blessing.
Exhorted all to be patient and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things. He is
angry with none except those who will not
acknowledge his hand in all things.
	Sister Rawlings bore a faithful testimony.
Congregation sang “All is well.”
	Sister L. D. Alder advised mothers to
pray and have prayers with their children.
Prayer is the corner stone, nothing will
make us happier than visiting our mar-
ried childrens’ homes and seeing them meet
around the family altar night and morning.
Said we must be careful and not do any-
thing that brings trial upon the missionaries
as anything and everything that is done in
Utah is exaggerated and misrepresented in
the papers and carried to different parts of
the earth.
	Sister Elizabeth Brown testified to the
power of prayer, made other good remarks.
	Sister Paul said words could not express
the gratitude of her heart for theGospel, she
was happy in her religion. Asked the sis-
ters to pray for their enemies and they
would not have power to do any harm.
	The congregation sang “Awake ye
defenders of Zion.” Other sisters bore
testimony and Sister Jane James said she
prayed for her enemies, for she knew they
must suffer.
	Sister Butterworth crossed the plains and
helped to drive cattle, but was happy
through it all, as she knew she was com-
ing to Zion. Sister Pond said she wanted
fo bear, a testimony of tithing. When her
husband was on a mission she paid her
tithing and the Lord had greatly blessed
her. Spoke of the inspiration of a Relief
Society president in Logan in regard to
Temple work.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson spoke of
the experiences of the Saints, how it was
necessary we should have these ex-
periences. Told the Saints they must not
grieve too much over sorrows, it was not
pleasing to the Lord. Said these meetings
were organized for retrenchment, and let us
retrench in everything. When we have
sickness let us not call for doctors, but ask
the Lord to help us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology, Benediction Annie T. Hyde.
				J.S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


The next annual meeting of the General
Society Daughters of the Revolution will be
held at Philadelphia during the week com-
mencing April 24.
	The General Society Daughters of the
Revolution recently donated $100 to the
Washington Memorial Association of Wash-
ton, D.C.


IN MEMORIAM.
ELIZABETH TIMPSON.

	The death of Sister Elizabeth Timpson
which occurred December 31, 1898, re-
moves from our midst a faithful laborer of
righteousness. Always cheerful and lov-
ing she early won the love of both old and
young, and her departure from this life is
a loss keenly felt by all who knew her.
	She was born in Oundle, Northampton,
England, March 15, 1838. She was the
wife of Wm. B. Timpson, who preceded
her in death thirty-five years. She had be-
come a member of the Church previous to
the death of her husband, and in 1868 with
a family of five small children came to
Utah. She has resided in Salt Lake City
ever since and for many years was a
member of the Sixteenth ward.
	Always ready and anxious to do good
she was among the first to become associated
with the Relief Society of the ward, and
became a teacher of the society and held
that position until her death, never falter-
ing in the good cause. Her loss will be
deeply felt by her colaborers, for although
of late years she has been very weak phy-
sically, yet her presence was always in-
spiring. It is needless to speak of her
goodness, for everywhere her works testify
of it, and she will never be forgotten by
her friends.
	For many years she held a prominent
position in the Sunday School, also in the
Primary Association, being president of
that association at the time of her death.
She loved the children and they in turn
loved her and greatly miss her at their
meetings.
	Notwithstanding her many duties she
never neglected her home and her children.
Sister Timpson leaves four sons and one
daughter, all of whom are now married and
have families of their own.
	Last spring Sister Timpson suffered from
an attack of pneumonia which left her in a
very weak state, but without serious results
until one week before her death At this
time some very astonishing incidents oc-
curred which are related by one of her sons
as follows:
	“For some little time,” said he, “mother
had been staying at the house of my aunt,
her sister, in the Seventh ward. On Fri-
day last mother told her sister that she was
going home, as she thought she had visited
long enough. My aunt tried to persuade
her to remain, because she was fond of her
company, but mother came home, and on
Monday told her sister not to think her
action strange. 'I wanted to come home
and die in my own bed,’ explained mother.
	“On Wednesday last we were called to the
bedside and mother bade us all good bye,
wishing us a happy new year. At 12 o’clock
noon, she passed through the throes of
death and the spirit had flown. All the
members of the family were present, as
were a number of friends, and they will
bear out my statement. Mother had been
dead for over fifteen minutes and we were
about to arrange for the proper care of the
remains when mother opened her eyes and
said, ‘O, what a good sleep I have had! I
wish I could tell you all I have seen, but I
can’t. I will say, though, that I have
suffered the pain of death and my spirit
has been separated from my body. I saw
a great many things, but am forbidden to
tell you of them. Your father has not
come for me yet, so I will remain with you


a little, just a little longer, and  when he
does come for me I shall go with him and
shall not return to you. What I saw, I
saw in the spirit, and what I say now I say
in the flesh. 
	“We were very much impressed with
what mother had said, the more so because
of her absolute rationality while making
the strange statement.
	“A similiar occurrence came again on
Thursday at noon, and we are all left in
wonder as to what it all meant. There
are people outside of our family who wit-
nessed the strange and unusual occurrence
and who are as much astonished as we are.
When mother died at 3 o’clock this morn-
ing we thought perhaps it was a repetition
of the two previous incidents, and for that
reason we made no move whatever towards
arrangements for care of the remains until
9 o’clock, six hours after death. A state-
ment made by mother after her first return
to life was proved when death came this
morning. On Wednesday she said ‘I have
suffered the pains of death, but when your
father comes and I leave you, I will go
peacefully and without pain.'
	“And so it was. Death came as an
angel of peace and there was not even a
sigh at dissolution.” 
	Sister Timpson has done a great work,
led the life of a noble woman and we feel
that she has gone to a great reward.
	RACHEL ISAACS, Pres.
	ELLA SELANDER, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
			ELIZABETH WEILER.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of our beloved president, Sister Elizabeth Weiler,
who departed this life January 10, 1899. She was
born January 25, 1819, making her the ripe age of
eighty years within fifteen days. She
was president of the Relief Society of the 3rd
ward for thirty-one years on the day of her funer-
al, which was held on the 13th day of January,
1899.
	Sister Weiler was beloved of all her associates
for her gentleness, her integrity, her love of right
and her staunch faith in the Gospel of Christ. She
was a friend to the poor and the widow, and she
exhibited great wisdom in all of her counsels.
	During the thirty-one years of her presidency
in connection with her sisters she worked in per-
fect harmony. We recognize the death of our be-
loved president as the loss of a faithful, energetic
worker, a friend to those in need and a comforter
to those in distress. We esteem her faithful and
untiring labors and devotion to the interest of
Zion worthy the emulation of every member of
the society.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we sympathize with the be-
reaved children, grandchildren and great grand-
children in the loss of a loving parent and a dear
friend.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be given to
her children, also that they be inscribed in the
records of the Relief Society, and that we pub-
lish them in the Woman’s Exponent
	ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
THE BON MARCHE.
	What a fascination there is in the atmos-
phere of beautiful Paris! The gay butter-
fly life in the streets brilliant with life and
color.  The working classes—seldom with
hats or bonnets —live out of doors every
practicable moment, loitering aimlessly
about or chattering volubly together around
the tiny tables arranged on the broad walks
before the numerous restaurants. And the
streets are usually so beautifully clean, the
boulevards so wide and the parks so green.

[Column 2]
From the tops of the Arc de Triumph one
gets a view of fairyland.
	The Bon (good) Marche (market) is situ-
ated in the old portion of the city, the Latin
quarter, not far from the palace and beauti-
ful gardens of the Luxembourg, and while
there are other fine establishments of the
kind in Paris, the Bon Marche seems to 
hold the power of attracting the masses.
It draws all classes, from the peasant to the
princess of noble blood, and the fact that if
one should purchase under the stress of
strong temptation something which in one’s
cooler moments would prove unsatisfactory
or an unwise extravagance it could be re-
turned and the money refunded, has done
much in building up the enviable reputa-
tion of the house.
	The establishment of the Bon Marche,
specially constructed for a dry goods busi-
ness, is the largest, best organized and best
fitted up in the world. It contains all that
experience can suggest for convenience and
commodity, and is one of the most remark-
able sights of Paris. In 1863 Aristide
Bouciaut became sole proprietor where he
had entered ten years previously as partner.
He was certainly a man of the highest com-
mercial intelligence, but what contributed
to the success and to the immense increase
of his business was his spirit of enterprise,
the rectitude of his character and his great
benevolence. He not only founded a
powerful business house, he founded at the
same time a great humane work, a social
institution. He did not merely content
himself with the realization of profit, he ap-
plied himself above all to merit the confi-
dence of the public by universally acknowl-
edged integrity. He was supported by a
staff of superior employees, chosen with
care, governed paternally and organized
according to a just rule which accords ad-
vancement for services rendered, and per-
mits each one to aspire to the most im-
portant positions.
	The Provident fund founded by Aristide
Boucicaut, the Retiring Pension fund
founded by his wife and the Relief and
Pension fund premit all employees to await
with confidence the days of old age, while
many of them have purchased shares in the
business.
	The moral and intellectual condition has
not been neglected. Free evening classes
comprising the study of the English lan-
guage, vocal and instrumental music and
fencing have been instituted for their bene-
fit. Every year the most assiduous among
the pupils following the English classes are
sent to London at the expense of the house
for a period of six months to perfect them-
selves in the English language. A doctor
is engaged by the house and free consulta-
tions are given every morning at nine
o'clock. Women in confinement are
allowed one hundred francs (twenty dollars)
to defray the expense of a nurse.
	The Provident fund is supported by a
sum deducted annually from the profits of
the business. All employees in the house
five years become participators in its bene-
fits. Each member has an individual ac-
count opened in his or her name and is pro-
vided with a book indicating exactly the
amount to the credit of each one. This
amount is further increased by an annual in-
terest of four per cent on the individual
capital. Any lady clerk contracting mar-
riage, even though she leave the establish-
ment, is entitled to the full amount to her
credit. In 1876 the fund commenced with
a capital of 62,000 francs, which in 1895

[Column 3]
had increased to 2,286,215 francs, not in-
cluding the amount paid out to the various
participators.
	Madame Boucicaut after her husband’s
death, wishing to carry out his idea and to
provide for those who contribute to the suc-
cess of the Bon Marche, instituted the Re-
tiring Pension fund, endowing it with the
modest sum of 5,000,000 francs from her
personal fortune. Two hundred and thirty
old assistants have now actually retired and
are receiving pensions amounting to
216,000 francs per annum. It is a life pen-
sion and varies from 600 to 1500 francs per
annum.
	Employees called on for military service,
if on their return they can show an irre-
proachable military certificate, are re-
installed in their former positions.
	The picture and sculpture gallery is for 
the purpose of enabling artists to exhibit
their work free, thereby assisting many a
worthy person to enter into business re-
lation with the numerous patrons of the
Bon Marche. Copies are not accepted, only
the original works can be admitted. The
Bon Marche submits all offers made to the
artists, and demands neither hanging fee
nor pay of any kind.
	In the reading room (salon de lecture)
the French and leading foreign newspapers
are at the disposal of all visitors, as well as
abundant writing material, and every day
the immense table which extends from one
end of the long room to the other is sur-
rounded. Some are writing letters home,
some reading and others simply resting.
	Yes, and one needs a rest if one has tried
to enter at the main entrance about three
o'clock on a bright afternoon in the spring-
time as I did several times. The crush is
truly something awful. One is simply car-
ried along by a restless, surging tide of
femininity, and the noise, the buzz, the in-
cessant chatter, the per[-]ume, the tropical
garden of hats in a constantly moving pano-
rama, the magnificent display of dry goods
of every color and kind under the sun and
distributed about with a reckless prodigal-
ity that is exasperating to the woman of
limited means who for the time being de-
sires nothing so much as a pocketbook
equal in size to that of the Count of Monte
Cristo, is something to remember. What a
bewildering, artistically arranged mass of
everything calculated to attract, from the
poor working girl up, up to the ultra
fashionable woman, what woman could
leave the silk skirt department where they
are spread out before one by thousands, a
perfect rainbow of colors, beautifully made
and trimmed with ruffles, flounces and lace,
without a pang of regret.
	The entire building is mostly glass, for
the whole four sides are windows and the
roof is glass. Every window is a small
room in size and the goods so attractively
arranged as to be a poem in itself.
	The horses and delivery wagons are oh
the same gorgeous order. The horses are
sleek, fat and well groomed with harnesses
mounted with gold, the wagons red and
gold and black and gold, and there were
thirty-six wagons and about one hundred,
and fifty horses. Every morning about
eight o’clock they passed down the Rue de
Cherche Midi on their way from the stables
and it was a pleasing sight. I used to
watch for them and think how well they
were matched. Of course all did not leave
the stable in the early morning, the rest
were sent for as they were needed through-
out the day.


The Bon Marche differs from our dry
goods houses in that they have no cash girls
or boys. Every separate department has
its own desk and cashier and every time
a lady makes a purchase the clerk waiting on
her accompanies her to the desk where her
parcel is wrapped and she receives her
change, if she be so fortunate as to have
any coming to her.
	The crush in 1900 will doubtless be
greater than ever and the goods distributed
about with a recklessness never seen before,
therefore when we all go over to the Ex-
position let us do as Shakespeare so delight-
fully advises, “put money in our purses,"
for we shall be tempted as we never were
before, not only to purchase the where-
withal to enhance our natural attractiveness,
but in other departments such as bric-a-
brac, pictures, china, carpets and drapery,
table linen and drawn work and a thousand
and one other things too numerous to men-
tion.
	If I am lucky enough to put money into
my purse I’ll meet you all there and pilot
you to the very choicest spots in the whole
building.
S.L.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARGARET CHANLER AND ANNA
			BOULING.
	Margaret Livingston Chanler and Annie
Bouling, heroic women who served with-
out pay as nurses in Porto Rico during the
late war, have been recommended for that
rare honor, the thanks of Congress. They
landed in Ponce July 31, and the same day
began nursing American and Spanish sick.
Miss Chanler, from her own purse, hired a
house and established a hospital for
American officers, and as the number of
sick grew, hired another and another until
she had three hospitals in operation at her
own expense. In September she turned
these hospitals over to the government
trained nurses, having first provided for
their rental and running expenses.
	The two brave women then went to
Coamo, nursing the sick there, and later to
San Juan, and as soon as San Juan was
under the American flag started a hospital
there. General Miles says their conduct
was most commendable and praisworthy.
	“Such noble and generous acts performed
under circumstances of great embarrassment
and danger of contracting fatal disease prev-
alent at that time,” he says, “our govern-
ment should recognize, and I recommend
that appropriate thanks be presented these
two women, and in the case of Miss Chan-
ler on account of her contributing so large-
ly and generously from her own private
fund without the least hope of ever being
remunerated, I further recommend that the
matter be brought to the attention of Con-
gress for such action as it may deem advis-
able.”
	The suggestion is endorsed by Secretary
Alger, who recommended suitable action
by Congress. It is probable the two wo-
men will be given medals and the thanks
of Congress.


COLORADO GOES ON RECORD.
	Upon the 30th of January there was
passed in the Colorado assembly by a vote
of 45 to 3, and the following day in the
Senate by a vote of 30 to 1, the following
resolution:


Whereas, Equal suffrage has been in
operation in Colorado for five years, during
which time women have exercised the
privilege as generally as men, with the re-
sult that better candidates have been selec-
ted for office, methods of election have been
purified, the character of legislation im-
proved, civic intelligence increased and
womanhood developed to greater usefulness 
by political responsibility, therefore be it
	Resolved, By the House of Representa-
tives, the Senate concurring, that in view
of these results, the enfranchisement of wo-
men in every state and territory in the
American Union is recommended as a
measure tending to the advancement of a
higher and better social order.
That an authenticated copy of these reso-
lutions be forwarded by the governor of the
state to the legislature of every state and
territory, and that the press be requested to
call public attention to these resolutions.
	This resolution ought to have some in-
fluence upon the people and papers who
have persistently tried to keep in circula-
tion reports derogatory to the “Colorado
experiment.’’—Ex.


The Western movement against the em-
ployment of married women as school
teachers should also embrace the principle
that no bachelor teachers can be employed.
If you refuse to employ married women,
you discourage marriage. But refuse at
the same time to employ unmarried men
and you encourage marriage.—Ex.


U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. met in the "Ex-
ponent” office in the Templeton, January
31, 1899, President Ella W. Hyde in the
chair. Opening prayer was offered by Dr.
E. R. Shipp. Roll call responded to by
sentiments from George Crabbe.
	Under new business the subject of the
traveling library came up for consideration.
On motion of Mrs. E. B. Wells the club
voted to pay the annual dollar for the
library. President Hyde stated that any
book given by club members would be
gladly received by the library committee,
Mrs. Moore chairman.
	An interesting and charming paper on
the Bon Marche was given by Mrs. Lawler,
giving a life like account of that great
institution in the gay city of Paris. Anec-
dotes by some of the ladies and some dis-
cussion followed. An original poem,
Night Winds, by Mrs. L. D. Alder, was
next read. It was intensely suitable for
the wild and boisterous night. A very
meritorious paper on the Khartoum and
Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener, the famous
Sidar of the Egyptian army, was read
with pleasing effect by Mrs. Lizzie S. Wil-
cox
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, president of the
National Woman’s Relief Society, and an
honorary member of the club, celebrates
her 78th birthday today. This is also the
76th birthday of Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
vice president of the N. W.. R. S., who is,
now visiting in Los Angelos. The club
extends best wishes to theso two veterans
in the cause of women, and wishes them
fair sailing over life’s uncertain sea.
	After some discussion an adjournment
was taken for one month. Dismissed by
Mrs. Doolan.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec, pro tem.


AMERICAN SILK. Commenting on the 
conditions governing the trade, the Silk
Association of America through its secre-
tary, has this to say: “Rising prices in the
raw-silk markets of the world have pro-
duced a decided rise in the prices of raw
silk in this market during the last thirty
days. This naturally necessitates a rise in
all silk products, and some of the branches
of the trade have formaly agreed in an
advance of prices. In this country at pres-
ent there are 27,000 power looms for broad
silk weaving,and 6,000 for ribbon weaving.
During the year there have been a number
of additional plants established in this
country by foreign firms and naturally
there has been some extension of facilities
by our older manufacturers. While addi-
tional facilities of manufacture is a gratify-
ing omen, it also carries with it an appre-
hension of facilities unduly increased. It
is hardly necessary to say that overpro-
duction is about as bad as a sluggish mar-
ket; in fact it conduces to it. The raw silk
supply on which our manufacturers depend
is indicated in the following figures.

IMPORTS IN UNITED STATES OF RAW SILK.
						Bales. 
1894.......................................54,924	$24,728,163.
1895.......................................66,989	30,595,991.
1896.......................................39,754	14,411,073.
1897.......................................72,496	30,636,009.
1898.......................................69,392	26,058,312.


Reading matter and “comforts” are
being sent to American soldiers stationed in
Cuba, Porto Rico and Manila by the Gener- 
al Society Daughters of the Revolution.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings 
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
 	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1899.		NO 20


CONTENTS:
	How Do They Compare—Ida H. Harper. Notes
and News. In Memoriam. U. W. P. C.—Aimee
C. Schiller. Reorganization—Sarah A. F. Price.
New Organization—O. H W The N. A. W. S
Association—Rachel Foster Avery. R.S. Reports.
A Sketch of the Jaredites—E. H. Lyon. Notice
to all Those Interested in Si[-]k Culture in the
State of Utah—Margaret A. Caine. Notice—Ro-
mania B. Pratt.
	EDITORIAL:—Official Notice. Relief Society
Conference. Memorable Anniversary. Daugh-
ters of the Revolution. About the Triennial.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Relics—Ellis R. Shipp. My Warning
—Nellie.


RELICS.

“O! what shall we do with all of this stuff,”
	Said fair Estelle one day,
“Right here in this garret there is enough  
To fill one with dismay.
Sure in the new home there’ll be no room 
	For trash and rubbish like this.”
As I glanced around I knew my doom,
	So closed her lips with a kiss.
I smiled and quietly sent her away,
	For what would she think of tears,
That I knew would come while I should survey
	The hoarded treasures of years.
Yes, well may she ask what should be done,
	With dresses my grandmother wore,
Her o’d rocking chair and patchwork begun
	In the leisure hours of yore.

These scrapbags and bundles and old broken
		toys,
	Withered wreaths and baskets of flowers,
And the cradle where slept my girls, and my
		boys,
	Thorugh innocent babyhood hours.
This pile of old letters with histories rife,
	Ah! the burden of love they bear,
With tales of the brightest seasons of life,
	And of days bowed down with care.

This moccasin made for the fair first born,
	This shoe by the second one worn,
This christening robe with laces adorned,
	And bonnets all soiled and torn.
The relics of missions and travels abroad, 
	Books, chests and specimens, too,
Speaking now to my soul in voices aloud,
	Of scenes that have pass’d from my view.

This old fashioned bureau of native wood
		made,
	Is all that is left of the set
He gave me the morn of the day we were
		wed,
	With kisses I ne’er can forget.
Still here in its drawers are ribbons and lace
	Old jewels and gold-tinseled fans, 
That waved at grand balls with exquisite
		grace,
	While held in fair dimpled hands.

The identical waistcoat he wore for my sake,
	And this he wore that fair day—
Along with my gown of old fashioned make,
	Have long lain carefully away.
These precious mementoes of more precious
		days,
	To the flames must all be consigned!
Just so mortal joys will melt from our gaze,
	And souls must needs be resigned.


O, weak human heart we cling to this day,
	Make idols of earth’s fading things,
And follow the phantom that flitteth away,
	And pleasures that travel on wings.
O, help us our Father to took up to Thee,
	Seek joys that ever abide,
Those truths and that faith that never will flee,
	Whatever of ill may betide.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


HOW DO THEY COMPARE?

	Ida H. Harper recently published a very
convincing argument upon equal suffrage,
in which she instituted a comparison be-
tween the personnel of the anti-suffragists
and the suffragists. Alluding to the form-
er she says:
	“Almost without exception the former
appear in print under the husband’s name.
Their own individual names would convey
no meaning to the public. Scarcely one is
known for her own work in literature,
science, education, practical philanthropy,
business enterprise or any active effort
for the benefit of mankind. Opposed to
these place the names of the most promin-
ent of the pronounced advocates of suffrage
for women, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Harriet Martin-
eau, Florence Nightingale, Frances Power
Cobbe, Lady Aberdeen, Lady Henry Somer-
set, Annie Besant, Lucy Stone, Harriet
Beecher Stowe, Louisa M. Alcott, Mary A.
Livermore, Julia Ward Howe, Clara Bar-
ton, Zerelda G. Wallace, Mary L. Booth,
Alice and Phoebe Cary, Mary Clemmer,
May Wright Sewall, Alice Freeman Palmer,
Sarah B. Cooper, Leonora Barry Lake,
Anna Dickinson, Anna L. Diggs, Grace
Greenwood, Harriet Hosmer, Lilian Whit-
ing, Bertha Honore Palmer, Jane L. Stan-
ford, Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, Frances E.
Willard and all the host of W. C. T. U.
leaders, Myra Bradwell and all the women
lawyers, Rev. Anna H. Shaw and all the
women ministers, Dr. Mary Putnam Jacobi,
and practically all the women physicians
and the vast majority of teachers and news-
paper women. 
	The list might be extended almost indifin-
itely and it would include nine-tenths of
the women who have made a name for
themselves and who are distinguished for
their own commanding ability. What a
travesty that a handful of women, eminent
only in social positions, should besiege the
legislatures to withhold the right of repre-
sentation from such as these! How much
worse than a travesty that they should
seek to deprive the wage earning women
of what would be their strongest weapon
for self-protection! All the opposition of
men for the last half century has not caused
so much discouragement to the women who
have fought the battles as this unprecedented
action on the part of their own sex. This
is not that they are retarding the progress
of the suffrage movement, for they are
having the opposite effect, but only that,
after all these years of opportunity, the wo-
men who should be leaders are laggards
and obstructionists.”


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The action taken at the recent Congress
of the Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion looking to an amalgamation of that
society with the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion, was entirely voluntary upon the part
of the D. A. R., and not with the sanction
or at the request of the Daughters of the
Revolution. There is no probability of a
“surrender” by the D. R. society to the D.
A. R’s.
	The General Society Daughters of the
Revolution constitutes all “original daugh-
ters,” women whose fathers served in the
War of the Revolution, honorary members
of the society, and presents them with a
handsomely engraved parchment certificate
of membership and a gold badge. Authen-
tic information of such daughters will be
gladly received at the headquarters of the
society, 156 Fifth Ave., New York City.
	The District of Columbia W. S. Associa-
tion, on motion of Dr. McNaughton, passed
unanimously a resolution of approval of
the disarmament conference called by the
Czar of Russia to meet in St. Petersburg in
May next, and asking the President of the
United States to appoint Mrs. Belva A.
Lockwood a delegate. Without any con-
cert of action a similar resolution was passed
by the Woman’s Industrial Relief League,
putting it upon the ground that the time
had arrived when the administration should
do something for women, and that Mrs.
Lockwood was by previous service pre-
eminently fit for the position.
	A lifelong suffragist has just been tender-
ly conducted through the portals of death
into the home of the soul, at the ripe age of
ninety three. Mrs. Sophronia Snow leaves
her impress on the age in the influence of
her daughters, two of whom live in Wash-
ington and two at the old home in Hamden
Corners, Maine. One of the latter is Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford, who was for so many
years intimately connected with the work
of the National Woman’s Suffrage Associ-
ation. It was with her that Mrs. Snow
passed her later years, and at this home not
long ago, she enjoyed visiting with Miss
Anthony, who was a guest there during
the suffrage convention at that place.
	Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne has introduced
an important educational bill in the Legis-
lature, providing for an increase of one
hundred per cent in the Normal scholar-
ship of the University. Its leading features
are as follows: The Normal school shall
be continued as a department of the Uni-
versity, for students of both sexes, and its
course of instruction shall include practice
in teaching and in pedagogy, may extend
through a period of four years, or until
graduation. Two hundred free scholars
may be maintained in the Normal school.
The holders of them shall be exempt from
the payment of all matriculation fees. Fifty
appointments to these scholarships, each for
a term of four years, may be made annually.
The bill was passed.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

MARGARET CHERRY.
	In memory of Mrs. Margaret Cherry,
who with her husband and six children
came to Utah in 1847 from Kentucky,
where she was born February 11, 1811.
They moved in the summer of 1848 to
Centerville, where she has lived ever since
until her death, which occurred October 18,
1898.
	Sister Cherry was a widow for thirty-
four years. When the Relief Society was
organized she became a member and officer
of that society and opened her house for
them to meet in. She afterwards gave a
small house to the society which they met
in for twenty years. As age and infirmities
came on her she was unable to leave her
home for a number of years. She was of a
peaceful disposition, a good neighbor and
endeavored to live her religion and keep
the golden rule. She died in full faith and
left a large posterity, of whom nearly all
are in the Church.
			MARY ROCKWOOD.
Centerville Relief Society.
KATE LAUGHAN LEISHMAN.
	We have been called upon to record the
death of one of our beloved sisters, Kate
Maughan Leishman, who departed this life at
her home in Wellsville, Cache Co., Utah,
Jan 15, 1899.
	Sister Leishman has been a faithful work-
er in our Relief Society, and has endeared
herself to the little band of sisters in this
branch by her sweet and gentle disposition,
and we her sisters offer these resolutions of
respect as a slight token of our love for her
who has been called to a higher sphere of
action.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That as God in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call home our dear
sister, Kate Maughan Leishman, we the
officers and members of the Baker City
branch of the Relief Society, express our
heartfelt sympathy for the bereaved hus-
band and family in their loss; also that they
have been greatly blessed with her sweet
and gentle influence in her home; and be it
further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be
placed upon our society records, one sent to
the bereaved family and one sent to the
Woman’s Exponent for publication.
			REBECCA NIBLEY, Pres.
			NELLIE W. ROUNDY, Sec.
A SAD BEREAVEMENT.
	Sister Elizabeth Pehrson, beloved daugh-
ter of Eric John and Anna S. Pehrson,
died January 15, 1899, after a lingering
weakness for some time, but was not con-
fined to her bed till one week prior to her
death, when she was attacked with an in-
termittent fever. Her weakness became
greater, though she took nourishment till
the last. She passed away without a strug-
gle Sunday morning between five and six
o’clock, in the arms of her beloved mother
and sister.
	Sister Pehrson was born and raised in
the Gospel and died a faithful Latter day
Saint, placing her religion above every
thing else. She was honest, virtuous, kind
and patient, never refusing any call that
was made upon her, therefore holding
many responsible positions at her death.

[Column 2]
	She was a teacher in the Sabbath School,
secretary in the Relief Society, second
counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A., and secre-
tary in the Y. M. and Y. L. Improvement
Association; also held the position of school
trustee and postmistress. She was born
April 28, 1873, at Vernon, Tooele Co., Utah.
	On Friday 20, her angel like form was
borne in a beautiful white casket decorated
with wreaths and blooming roses, to the
meeting house where the funeral services
were held. The stand was draped in white
and decorated with flowers, giving the
whole a beautiful appearance. The choir
sang “Guide Me to Thee.” Prayer was
offered by Brother David Bennion. Sing-
ing, “Wanted on the Other Side.” Consol-
ing remarks were made by Stake President
H. S. Gowan and our beloved Bishop J. C.
Sharp. The choir sang “Sister Thou
wert Mild and Lovely.” Benediction by
Neils Fredrickson.
	The remains were conveyed to the ceme-
tery in a light vehicle drawn by white
horses. The dedicatory prayer was offered
by President H. S. Gowan. The choir
sang “There is Sweet Rest in Heaven.”
The body was then carefully sheltered by
mother earth to rest in peace.
							C.
FRISTENCE MAGDALENE ERIKSEN.
	It is our painful duty to announce that
on December 4, 1898, occurred the death of
Sister Fristence Magdalene Eriksen from
heart failure.
	Deceased was born in Otostrup, Wolstrup
Sogn, Denmark, on the 11th of March 1857.
She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1880 and
emigrated to Utah in 1881. She was a
member of the Newton ward, Cache Stake
of Zion. She died in full faith of the Gos-
pel and with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection. She was a member of the Relief
Society and always took an active part in it.
	The following resolutions were adopted
by the society in her memory:
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas in the providence of God it
has pleased Him to call away this our be-
loved sister to a higher sphere, and we
reverence Him who holds the destinies of
men and who permits nothing to come to
pass but for a wise and glorious purpose; and
	Whereas at the time of her death she
was an active member of the Relief Society
and was held in high esteem by all who
knew her, for her noble qualities, therefore
be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the
Relief Society of Newton ward tender to
the bereaved family our heartfelt sympathy
and condolence for the sad loss they have
sustained of a faithful wife and a loving
sister; and be it further
	Resolved, That a copy of this preamble
and resolutions be recorded in the minutes
of the Relief Society, and a copy printed in
the Woman’s Exponent.
		ELIZABETH FUNK,
		MARY JENKINS,
		MAGDALENE PETERSON,
						Committee.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT AND 
CONDOLENCE. 
	In loving respect to Sister Anna Lang-
hurst Layne, one of our pioneer women
and a faithful teacher in the Cardston Re-
lief Society, Canada.

[Column 3]
	She was born February 22, 1849, at
Stow on the Woods, Glostershire, England.
Died December 23, 1898, in Cardston after
an illness of two days, leaving a husband
and ten children to mourn her departure.
	Sister Layne came to Cardston with her
husband and family in the year 1887. She
was true to her religion and her covenants,
having embraced the higher order of mar-
riage for eternity she has now a claim to a
higher celestial glory. She was always an
energetic and faithful worker in the Relief
Society, a sympathetic and faithful nurse,
ever ready to assist the sick and the poor
and to cheer up the downcast; a loving
wife, a devoted mother, looking after her
children with a love unceasing. We feel
that her wise counsel will be heeded by her
children, (the youngest of whom is eight
years of age) that they will profit by her
worthy example.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His
infinite wisdom has seen fit to call home
our beloved sister, Anna Layne,
	Resolved, That in the death of Sister
Layne we are deprived of the society of a
loving sister and a dear friend, one who
was always alive to her duties and will be
greatly missed; so willing in the hour of
need, many sad hearts have been brightened
by her cheerful words of encouragement;
therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize
with those who are bereft and are bound by
the nearest and dearest ties, and we share
with them the hope of a happy reunion in
the bright hereafter. We pray that heaven’s
choicest blessings may attend the bereaved
family, and the spirit of the Lord be with
them to comfort and cheer them.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be given to the bereaved family, one placed
on record and one sent to the Woman’s
Exponent for publication.
			SARAH B. DAINES, Pres.
			C. ELNORA WIGHT, Sec.
			LOTTIE BARTON, Rec. Sec.


U. W. P. C.

	The U. W. .P. C. met in the “Ex-
ponent” office February 28, 1899. The
president being absent the vice president,
Mrs. C. G. R. Wells presided. Opening
prayer by Dr. E. R. Shipp, after which the
secretary called the roll, responses being
given by quotations from the poet Moore.
Mrs. Francis proposed the name of Mrs.
Ida Cannon as a member. Mrs. Cannon
was unanimously elected. Mrs. L. D.
Alder read a communication from the
General Federation of Women’s Clubs,
Atlanta, Ga., and one from Chester, Penn.,
regarding organizing Federation traveling
clubs, and one from the Utah Federation re-
garding badges. The following interesting
program was then given:
	Poem by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp; Current
Events by Dr. Romania B Pratt; Tid Bits
by Mrs. H. V. Kimball, followed by dis-
cussion of members. Before the benediction
was offered all present joined in extending
well wishes and congratulations to Mrs. E.
B.Wells, this being the anniversary of her
birth, or nearly so, as she was born on the
29th. May she meet with us for many,
many years to come. 
		AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec.


The Hawaiian bill failed to come to a
vote, and goes over to next Congress.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MY WARNING.

Many a lesson our children teach us, 
	Did we con their quaint sayings through,
Many a loving reproof they give us—
	Doing ever the thing we do—
Showing how watchful we mothers should be,
What noble examples of purity.

’Twas in early spring many years agone,
	How well I remember the day,
The birds, just returning from warmer climes,
	Caroled forth such a joyous lay,  
All nature aroused from her winter’s sleep,
Rejoiced while I reveled in fancies dee[-].

“Mama oo’d better look out where oo step,
	I’se walked in oo’s tracks all de way,
And mine s’oes are as muddy as dey can be,
	But oo cant scold Nellie today,
’Cause oo’s are as muddy as mine don’t oo see? 
Oh mama who finked dat so naughty oo’d be.”

I paused in my reverie, baby’s voice
	Had called me back from my aerial flight,
And turning, I saw that I’d left the path
	And taken a wrong, instead of the right, 
And there we were in the mud ankle deep,
Just reward for neglecting the path to keep.

I snatched up my baby, and then retraced
	My steps till ’gain I’d reached the track,
Then hand in hand, homeward we took our
		“March,”
	Thankful at last when we were back, 
The muddy shoes removed, the tired head
Pillowed upon my breast, while this I read:

“Thy children’s children in thy steps shall walk,
	Thy latter days shall be thy best,
Apostles, prophets at thy board shall dine, 
	And thy posterity shall call thee blest,
While useful ’mong thy sisters thou shalt be, 
In deeds of mercy love and charity.”

“Thy children’s children in thy path shall
		walk,”
	The words seemed burning in my very soul
My life, its acts before my vision passed 
	And I in judgment sat upon the whole,
How small my spirit stature seemed that day,
How unlike His, “The Life, the Sight the
		Way.”

Long, long I sat accusing self of wrongs, 
	Which ere had trifling seemed to me,
But viewed today gigantic forms assumed,
	“The beam removed,” I plain could see
How oft by foolish follies I was led, 
How oft omitted duties, hard words said.

How oft controlled in anger ’stead of love,
	The “daily prayer,” a “thing forgot,” 
While oft “before my neighbor’s door I wept,”
	The while repining with my lot,
Forgetful that our Father’s watchful care 
Is “over all,” yet, each his cross must bear.

Humbly I bowed before the Lord in prayer, 
	Pleading for pardon, mercy, love,
Soon o’er my senses stole a holy calm, 
	Such as comes only from above, 
And lo! a voice seemed saying o’er and o’er:
	“Rise erring daughter, go and sin no
		more,

Henceforward follow whither I shall lead,
	I’ll keep thy steps so free from sin,
Thy children, following, shall see thy light,
	And they, with thee, the victory win,
But humble ye must walk, holding ‘the rod’
Braving life’s battles, trusting Me, thy God.”

The years have flown, and though my erring
		feet,
	In moments weak, have slid aside the track,
Anon the memory of that baby voice,
	In cadence sweet has called me back,
Struggling I seek for aid from Christ my head, 
	Led by a little child, as prophets said.

[Column 2]
Father, I daily plead, keep me from sin,
	Help me a shining light to be,
To those whom Thou hast placed within my
		care,
	That I may lead them back to Thee,
Back to the home from whence, so pure, they
	came,
This is the prayer I ask in Jesus’ name.
							NELLIE.


REORGANIZATION.

	Minutes of a special meeting called to
fill the vacancy made by the death of our
late president, Sarah M. Kimball, held in
the vestry of the ward meeting house,
March 7, 1899.
	There were present Stake President An-
gus M. Cannon, Relief Society Stake Presi-
dent M. I. Horne, and her counselors, An-
nie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon and
others, also Bishop Jos. Morgan and Coun-
selor Nephi Morris.
	Meeting was opened by singing “Oh
say what is truth.” Prayer by Nephi Mor-
ris. Continued by singing “Guide us O,
Thou Great Jehovah.” Sarah A. F. Price
was nominated and sustained to act as secre-
tary for the meeting.
	Bishop Jos. Morgan explained the ob-
ject of calling the meeting, to effect a re-
organization of the 15th ward Relief Soci-
ety, a vacancy being caused by the death of
our late president, Sarah M. Kimball. He de-
sired to be guided by divine power in what
was done today. Spoke of the efficient
assistance given by the Relief Society to
the Bishopric.
	President M. I Horne followed with a
few remarks, Spoke in high terms of the
ability of our late president, Sarah M. Kim-
ball. Referred to the first organization and
the instructions given at that time by the
prophet, Said that it was wonderful the
amount that was gathered in in small sums
contributed by individuals. Desired the
influence of the Holy Ghost to guide us. 
Said every virtuous woman ought to be-
long to the society.
	President Angus M. Cannon spoke of the
help given to the ward, Stake and Church
by the Relief Society organizations. Said
that all members should be virtuous and
that God would reveal sin to those who
were righteous.
	Sister Harriet A. Badger was then nom-
inated and unanimously sustained as presi-
dent of the 15th ward Rellef Society.
	Sister Badger accepted the office, and
said she would do the best she could to dis-
charge her duties faithfully. She chose
for her first and second counselors respective-
ly, Mary E. R. Gray and Janette S. Griggs.
Both were unanimously sustained. Sarah
A. F. Price was nominated for secretary and
Mary W. Gray for treasurer. Both were
unanimously sustained as such.
	The officers were then set apart by Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, Bishop Jos. Mor-
gan and Nephi Morris. Meeting was
closed by singing “Lord dismiss us with
Thy blessing.” Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
			SARAH A. F. PRICE, Sec.


THE. N. A. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	Mrs. Emily B. Ketchum, the president of
the Susan B. Anthony Club of Grand Rapids,
Mich., is most actively engaged in making
preparations for the approaching Annual
Convention of the National American Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association to be held in
her city from April 27 to May 3, inclusive.
	Mrs. Ketchum has secured an admirable
entertainment committee with an active
chairman, Mrs. Allen C. Adsit, 94 Madison
Ave., and the Grand Rapids people propose
to entertain most royally the entire work-
ing force of the Convention, officers, speak-
ers and delegates.
	April and May promise delightful weath-
er in that part of the country, and we are
all looking forward to not only a good
working Convention, but a pleasant op-
portunity for social intercourse with a
gathering of women which ought to repre-
sent the entire country. A number of
states have already sent information that
their full quota of delegates will be present.
The South will be represented on the pro-
gram by three of its best known suffragists,
Laura Clay and Josephine K. Henry of
Kentucky, and Frances Griffin of Alabama.
	It is hoped that at least one of the wo-
men members of Legislatures in the enfran-
chised states will be present, and perhaps
such representatives will be secured from
two of these states.
	Among the speakers will be Elizabeth
Boynton Harbert, Illinois; Evelyn H. Bel-
den, Iowa; Anna Caulfield, Michigan; May
Wright Sewall, Indiana; Merrie H. Abbott,
Michigan; Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, Penn-
sylvania; Abigail Scott Duniway, Oregon;
Martha A. Root, Michigan; Carrie Chap-
man Catt, New York; Harriet Taylor Up-
ton, Member of the Warren, Ohio, School
Board; Flora Beadle Renkes, School Com-
missioner of Berry Co., Michigan; A.
Eugenie Paul, Superintendent of Street
Cleaning Department, First Ward, Chicago,
and Susan B. Anthony.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


At the quinquennial of the Woman’s In-
ternational Council in London next June,
one of the two large public sessions will be
given to a consideration of woman suffrage,
the other to the question of peace and arbi-
tration.


NEW ORGANIZATION.

	Minutes of the organization of the Relief
Society held in the 22nd ward branch, Dec.
8, 1898.
	Bishop Solomon stated that they deemed
it proper to organize a Relief Society in this


part of the 22nd ward, and for that reason
they had called this meeting prior to the
organization.
	Instructions and advice were then given
the sisters by Bishop Solomon and his
counselors, Arthur Winter and John Nebe-
ker. Bishop Solomon then gave the names
of the following sisters to act as officers:
Sister J. S. McKean, president; Elizabeth
Lawrence, first counselor; Nancy Shaw,
second counselor; Octavia H. Walgren,
secretary; Elvira Winberg, treasurer.
	The sisters then expressed their willing-
ness to fulfill their calling to the best of
their ability. Brother Solomon advised the
sisters to meet together as often as possible,
and to seek the spirit of the Lord at all times.
	The sisters were then set apart by the
Bishop and his counselors. Bishop Solo-
mon made a few remarks, exhorting the
sisters to be faithful at all times, and asked
the blessing of the Lord upon all. Bene-
diction was pronounced by Niels Nelson.
						O. H. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1899.


ABOUT THE TRIENNIAL.

	The ladies who attended the sessions of
the Triennial of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States in Washington, D.
C., in 1899, will probably never forget the
impression it has made and the benefits re-
ceived. To those who have never been pres-
ent the general uplifting cannot be too greatly
emphasized. The banding together of more
than a million women to influence the ac-
complishment of great purposes must neces-
sarily be a power in any given direction. It
is not so much individual as collective
power and the individual speeches made,
however brilliant, are not the predominating
influence. It is the united force of the whole
that gives such tremendous weight to the en-
tire effect. The propagation of the ideas em-
bodied in the platform of the Council express
forcibly in a few words what is expected, and
one can judge from that what the future will
be for all women who are willing to put forth


[Column 1]
a helping hand to advance this great forward
movement.
	The International Council, which takes
in all National Councils in all the countries
of the world is to hold its quinquennial ses-
sion next June in London. There the lead-
ing representatives of the National Council
will assemble to read papers, discuss subjects
and formulate plans for the general welfare of
women among all nations upon the globe.
Many crowned heads of kingdoms and em-
pires are becoming interested in, this Council
of nations, and will send representatives
duly commissioned as fraternal delegates,
where National Councils have not yet been
affiliated. To enlarge upon the facts here
set forth one might multiply pages illimitable,
but if women are alive to the awakening of
the times mentally and spiritually, they will
seek information and inspiration upon this
great upheaval of the higher activities of the
age. 
	The meetings of the Council this winter
and the business transacted have been of ex-
ceptional interest to the writer and for lack
of space even now we can only present the
following:
THE RESOLUTIONS REPORTED.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
cannot afford to lose from its Executive
Board a woman who has had the experience
of directing its policy as President; there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That a President of the Nation-
al Council, upon retiring from her office,
shall be made Honorary President of the
Council, with all powers and privileges, in-
cluding that of a vote upon the executive
committee; further be it
	Resolved, Should this resolution com-
mend itself to the judgment of the execu-
tive committee, that the names of Mary
Lowe Dickinson and May Wright Sewall,
The two living Presidents of the Council,
be immediately placed upon the official
staff, and that the constitution be so amended
as to include past Presidents as Honorary
Presidents within its limits; be it also
	Resolved, That no one except the Presi-
dent of the Council shall have either the
title or the privilege of an Honorary Presi-
dent.
	Resolved, We believe the state should
give to all children in schools under its con-
trol industrial and physical as well as
mental education.
	Resolved, That the National Council of
Women requests the government of the
United States how it may most largely
avail itself of the services of women in the
regulation of such matters pertaining to the
army and navy as the proper preparation of
food, sanitation, nursing, medical attendance,
etc. 
	Believing that the two strongest unifying
forces off organized effort are human brother-
hood and Divine Fatherhood, and rejoicing
in the expression of humanitarian princi-
ples in the manifold activities of American
women, represented by the National Coun-
cil of Women; therefore,
	Resolved, That this universal faith in the
Divine Fatherhood should be expressed by
either vocal or silent prayer at the opening
of all sessions of the Council.
	Resolved, That we protest against the
canteen system in our army and navy.
	Resolved, That we deprecate war, and
are in hearty sympathy with the purpose of
the conference called by the Czar of Russia

[Column 2]
for the gradual disarmament of the nations
of the world, believing that all difficulties
between civilized people may be settled
judicially by a high court of nations with-
out the sacrifice of life.
	Resolved, That the National Council of
Women of the United States send a com-
munication to President McKinley, re-
questing him to use his influence in en-
deavoring to put a stop to bull fights in
Cuba, on account of their extreme cruelty
and the demoralizing effect upon those who
witness them.
	Resolved, That in view of the wholesale
destruction and threatened extinction of
whole species of beautiful and useful song
birds for millinery purposes, and the conse-
quent rapid multiplication of insect pests,
and serious menace to the agricultural in-
terests of our country and the world, and
in view of the manifest inadequacy of mor-
al suasion to prevent the wearing of birds
and parts of birds on women’s bonnets, we
urge the passage of a United States law
prohibiting the sale by hunters or milliners
of any bird plumage obtained by the de-
struction, torture or injury of birds.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
of the United States stands for the highest
ideals of domestic and civic virtue, as well
as for the observance of law in all its de-
partments, both state and national, therefore
	Resolved, That no person should be al-
lowed to hold a place in any law making
body of the nation who is not a law abiding
citizen.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
of the United States is composed of many
organizations having diverse aims and
varied activities; and
	Whereas its own chief object is “the over-
throw of all forms of ignorance and injust-
ice” by the application of the Golden Rule
to society, custom and law; and
	Whereas this diversion in its constituency
and increasing number of its allied societies
tends more and more (under the present
form of procedure) toward the presentation
of resolutions and petitions too special in
character to be fully endorsed, and too great
in number to be properly discussed by the
Council as a whole; therefore
	Resolved, That this committee on reso-
lutions recommends that at succeeding ses-
sions of the National Council of Women of
the United States no resolution or petition
be presented except such as bear upon the
subjects, policy or work of the Council it-
self, in its internal administration or in its
relation as a body to other organizations,
or to some specific recommendation of the
Council in national or international enter-
prises or meetings.
SKETCH OF HAWAIIAN WOMEN.
President and Ladies of the National Coun-
		cil:
	I have come on behalf of my people, the
Hawaiian women, that they may be allowed
the same privileges as the women of America.
	Here I wish to say in the early days of
Hawaii the Hawaiian race were ignorant,
and like all other nationalities where civiliz-
ation had not reached, were savages. But
when the word of God was brought to us
in the year 1820 the Hawaiian race accepted
it and today they are equal in education,
intelligence and capability to the people of
the United States and all other nations of
the globe.

[Column 3]
	I have been present at some of your
meetings and find that the women of this
country are working for the advancement
of the human race, more especially for the
rights of women. If the right to vote is
accorded to the women of this country, I
hope and pray that the same privileges may
be granted to the Hawaiian women, and I
ask of the National Council of Women
whose noble souls prompted them to be
present at these meetings, that they will
give me all the aid in their power to for-
ward the fulfillment of my petition.
				HANNAH KAAEPA.


[Column 1]
MEMORABLE ANNIVERSARY.

	The 17th of March, anniversary of the
first organization of the Relief Society,
will be generally observed throughout the
organization in some way commemorative
of that auspicious occasion, and no doubt
the sisters will try to review in some way
the work accomplished during the fifty
seven years, though very few are living
now who were present then. Only one
that we can recall at this present moment,
that one is Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, who
was at that time not quite twenty years old.
	The assistant secretary appointed on that
occasion, Sister Phebe M. Wheeler, has
died during the last few months at Bounti-
ful at a great age; we have not yet received

[Column 2]
the notice with a sketch of her life, but ex-
pect to publish it in the “Exponent.” It
will certainly be of special interest.
	For the benefit of those not acquainted
with the circumstances of the first organiza-
tion and particulars, etc., we republished in
the February 1, 1899, number, the minutes
as prepared by Sister Eliza R. Snow, the
secretary appointed at that time, and who
carefully prepared them from the record
for publication in the first numbers of the
Woman’s Exponent, June 1, and 15, 1872.
We hope most sincerely that the sisters
will preserve these minutes and make them
a part of the record kept of the society in
their respective wards, that hereafter they
may have them for reference. If the sisters
would be more choice of the “Exponent,”
they might have information at hand on
many subjects when occasion came that
items were needed for use. Every society
should have it for the benefit of those who
cannot afford to take it, and every president
should have it for her own use, in order
that she may be posted on general society
matters, and because of any instructions
given through its columns from the presid-
ing board.
	The 17th of March marks an event of
great interest to the sisters and to all wo-
men, and we know why and how it is so
very important an epoch in the history of
the world. Since that time hundreds and
perhaps thousands of women’s organiza-
tions have sprung up on both continents, in
many countries and upon the islands of the
sea: some benevolent like our own, some
for reform, some literary, historical, genalog-
ical, scientific, political and religious.
	All the various associations and societies
have vast influence in the world towards
enlightenment, refinement and culture.
Many great reforms have been wrought
through the efforts of the women along
these lines, and what may we not expect in
the next half century of progressive work.
	Of the Relief Society great things will
certainly be expected, such as promoting
more substantially the silk industry and
other like enterprises, so as to employ a
large number of women and children, that
the young generation may not be allowed
to grow up in idleness, and be a tax upon
the community.
	More houses will be built suitable for
aged women so as to avoid paying rent, for
building material may be obtained even
without much cash, or at any rate with
economy in disposing of articles made at
working meetings; building material may
thus be procured and work on houses paid 
for. This has been done already in
some places where there has been judicious
management by those in charge of affairs.
	If the Relief Society stands, as it should,
first of woman’s organizations, there should
be a bureau of information with suitable
(not extravagant) headquarters where
strangers and women from all parts of the
world might converse with the women of
the society upon such matters as pertain to
the welfare of humanity, and get correct
views and opinions of the work in which
the women of the Latter-day Saints are en-
gaged. May that good time hasten on and
the sisters feel their labors are in the line
of progress, and the society become in real-
ity what has been expected by those who
laid the foundation of this organization, and
worked so faithfully until called to labor
in a higher sphere. In this connection we 
may mention reverently Sisters Eliza R.
Snow, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Phebe

[Column 3]
Woodruff, Sarah M. Kimball, Mercy R.
Thompson, Marinda M. Hyde, Elizabeth
Howard and many others whose names will
stand in golden letters on the Roll of Honor.


OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT. 

	During the early part of April there will 
be issued by the Deseret News a new 
Church work entitled “The Articles of
Faith,” the same being a series of lectures 
on the principal doctrines of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by Dr. 
James E. Talmage. The lectures were
prepard by appointment of the First Presi-
dency, and the book will be published by 
the Church. It is intended for use as a 
text book in Church schools, Sunday
schools, Improvement associations, quorums 
of the Priesthood and other Church organi-
zations in which the study of Theology is 
pursued, and also for individual use among 
the members of the Church. The work has 
been approved by the First Presidency, and
I heartily commend it to the members of 
the Church.
				LORENZO SNOW.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The general conference of the Relief Soci-
ety will be held on Saturday April 8, 1899,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, this city,
meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p.
m. as usual. It is desirable that there should
be representation from each Stake organiza-
tion of the society, either the president or
other officer should attend. All members of
the society are cordially invited, also the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Association.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
							President.
			JANE S. RICHARDS,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
							Counselors,


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

	At the annual meeting of the State Soci-
ety of the Daughters of the Revolution held
Friday, March 8, at 2 p. m. at the hand-
some residence of Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth,
139 E. South Temple St., this city, a
large number of the members were present
and a few invited guests. The parlors were
elaborately draped and decorated for the oc-
casion with red, white and blue in all avail-
able places, and the dear old flag itself was
most conspicuous of all. Everything be-
tokened a gala occasion. The meeting was
held in the library opening out of the par-
lor where flags and colors were abundant.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. George A.
Smith, one of the most distinguished wo-
men in Utah. Piano music, “The Star
Spangled Banner,” by Miss Olea Shipp.
Minutes of meetings were read by the re-
cording secretary, Miss Julia Farnsworth,
also letters from the general secretary by
the corresponding secretary, Lucy W. Smith.
Music by Miss Shipp, “Red White and
Blue March.” A recess was taken and the
ladies repaired to the dining room, which
like the parlors had been draped with the
national colors. On the tables which were
artistically arranged were sweet-scented
flowers, snowy linen and dainty china, all
added to the delicious menu prepared for
the delectation of the guests. Mrs. Farns-
worth as hostess anticipated every wish and
the hour spent at the banquet was most de-
lightfully entertaining. Miss Farnsworth
was a charming toast mistress and displayed
great tactfulness in introducing each toast
and giving something original of the subject.
The veterans of the Revolution were not for-
gotten, nor were the mothers and “Our Flag”
was royally toasted.
	After the banquet, meeting was called to
order for the consideration of other matters
and Miss Shipp favored the company with a
song, La Separazione, (Rossine) prayer by
the chaplain, and an adjournment was taken
to the regular meeting, March 16, at 3 p.m.,
Templeton Building.
	All, both members and guests, expressed
themselves gratified with the success of the
first annual meeting.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

BURLINGTON, WYOMING.
	Our society was organized December 5,
1896, by Bishop Wm. Packard and coun-
selors, with Sister Abbe Neves president


DAVIS STAKE.

	Minutes of the Davis Stake Relief Soci-
ety conference held at East Bountiful Jan.
26, 1899, President Susan Grant presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.” Prayer by
Patriarch Judson Tolman. Singing, “How
great the joy that promised day.” Present
from Salt Lake City were Sisters Elizabeth
J. Stevenson and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. 
	President Grant said, “I wish to welcome
President Lizzie Smith and the young ladies.
I am pleased to have them meet with us in
conference. 
	Minutes of forenoon session of previous
conference were read and approved. Re-
ports read and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the meeting.
She fully realized what a great privilege it
was to meet together. We sisters had had
this privilege only since the Prophet Joseph
Smith had organized the Relief Society.
It was the duty of every sister to attend
these meetings and prepare herself for a
higher probation. “When I hear of so 
many going into forbidden paths I wonder
if the mothers have done their duty.  It is
just as necessary for our sons to be virtuous
as for our daughters. We should take an
interest in our sons and daughters, make
home pleasant and provide suitable amuse-
ment for them. The spirit of God cannot
dwell in unholy places.”
	Patriarch John Kynaston said, “I do re-
joice in being here. I feel full of the spirit
of the Lord. What we have heard has
been dictated by the spirit of God. If you
put these things into practice the Lord will
bless you. I say unto these young sisters
you will be blessed in bearing the sons and 
daughters of God. The Lord wants this
people to become one, and prepare the way
for His coming.”
	President Lizzie Smith said, “It affords
me great pleasure to see so many of the
brethren present and to be with you. I
think it is nice to join our societies, as we
all expect to be Relief Society workers at
some time. I was not born when the
Prophet was killed but I think it made an
impression on me. I think children are
influenced very young, even before they
are born. If the mothers would go to the
Lord with their troubles instead of the
neighbors, it would be a great deal better.
My advice is for us to put into practice the
many good things we have heard. I ask the
Lord to bless us all.”
	Bishop Egan said, “I have been pleased
with what I have heard, I think it has
been dictated by the spirit of God. We
have different influences to contend with,
the good and the evil. We should be on
our guard so we will not give way to the
evil influences. It is very necessary and it
is our right, if we live for it, to have the
spirit of discernment.”
	President Susan Grant said, “I have been
very much pleased with the remarks. I am
sorry President Hess was not able to meet
with us, but he sent his blessing.”
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.” Benediction by Brother Clark.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Praise to the man.” Prayer by Brother
Duarden. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.” Minutes of previous after-
noon session read and approved.
	President Grant said, “I am pleased to
see so many present, may the blessing of

[Column 2]
the Lord rest upon all who may speak.”
	Sister Shipp then addressed the meeting.
She said, “I desire an interest in your faith
and prayers, for I desire to talk more especi-
ally to the young ladies and encourage them
to attend these meetings, for they are a
blessing to all of us.” Spoke of love and
charity, said we should all try and cultivate
these qualities. The mothers have a great
influence over their children. A woman’s
geatest mission is to instruct her children
in the proper way. We should all try to
control our children with a spirit of love.
Spoke of our Savior and the spirit of for-
giveness. Said, “Let us try to follow His
example, seek to know and do our duty at
all times and be prepared for eternal life.”
	Patriarch Judson Tolman said, “I will
tell you, my sisters, you are numbered
among those who are reserved to redeem
the world. We can all see the great neces-
sity of doing right and living our religion.
I tell you not only the young men but the
young women will be called upon to go on
missions. I bless you, my sisters, and
your children.”
	Sister Emily Parish said, “I realize so
much is required of us, but we should ask
the Lord what is most necessary to be done.”
Sister Caddie Parish said, “Where much
is given much is required, and none of us
lack for opportunities of improvement. I
trust we will all follow the good examples
of our parents.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant said, “I am
satisfied the spirit of the Lord is with us to-
day. The only desire I have is that I may
have a portion of it while I attempt to
speak. We should teach our children to
love and respect the authorities. Parents
should be very careful in speaking before
their children. I feel to say God bless this
and all other societies.”
	Sister Mary Clark said, “It is our duty to
ask the Lord for His blessing and what we
most need. I have been to the Lord for com-
fort and have been comforted. I feel to
bear my testimony to the Gospel.”
	Sister Stevenson said, “When our Patri-
archs speak of the degradation it makes me
feel like putting my shoulder to the wheel
and helping to regenerate the world. It is
the privilege and duty of the young ladies to
join these societies and prepare themselves
for eternal life.”
	President Susan Grant said, “I do not
think there is one in the house who has not
been greatly edified.” Spoke of the sis-
ters’ meeting on the 17th of March. “I
feel to ask the blessing of the Lord upon
all, I think we have had a day of rejocing.”
	Conference adjourned for three months to
be held at Centerville. Singing, “Guide
us O, Thou Great Jehovah.” Benediction
by Lewis Grant.
		SUSAN GRANT, Pres.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Sec.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A new book called “The Primary Help-
er” has been completed under the direction
of the General Board of the Primary Associ-
ation, and is now for sale. It is intended
for the use of the children in their exercises
in the association, and for a help when get-
ting up entertainments. It contains both
prose and poetry, most of the articles are
original and written especially for the chil-
dren of Zion. Great care has been taken
to have nothing objectionable contained in
any of the pieces, and the associations and
Latter-day Saints generally should procure
copies for the use of the children and those
who labor among and with them. The
book is published by George Q. Cannon
& Sons Co., price per copy, 15c[-]s.
	A book on Bookkeeping by John W.
Whinyates of this city has been handed to
us, and we take pleasure in giving it a brief
notice in our columns, as it seems to rec-
ommend itself to the student as being clear
in method and easy in comprehension of
the subject dealt with. It contains speci-
mens of the books used in single and double
entry. In this age of hurry any practical
theory that will facilitate work, is certainly
a blessing, and it seems this little book
will be very helpful to those who transact
business, much, or little, as the case may be.
Women who are puzzled in keeping their
accounts and who cannot afford to take les-
sons will be able to learn all that is requi-
site without a teacher, from this small book
of 62 pages, price $1.00
	We have received from the Deseret Sun-
day School Union the pamphlet of the
“Proceedings of the First Sunday School
Convention, of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints,” containing the en-
tire report as taken in short hand. It is
exceedingly interesting and will be a great
benefit to the organization, both for
the present and the future, and the address
of President George Q. Cannon, General
Superintendent, and of First Ass’t. Super-
intendent Elder George Goddard, will be
priceless in value to the Sunday School
Union, as also those of other speakers. The
convention was in every sense of the word
a perfect success, The teaching contained
in the book will be invaluable to teachers,
and in the form it is issued convenient for
reference. Price, 10cts., published by the
Deseret Sunday School Union, 408, and 409
Templeton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
For the “Exponent.”
A SKETCH OF THE JAREDITES.

	To a Latter-day Saint there is no more
interesting subject to study than the Book
of Mormon. The history of the doings and
wanderings of the aborigines of the Ameri-
can continent, or the roaming Indians of to-
day, the descendants of Father Lehi and
his associates, who left Jerusalem by the
Lord’s command 600 years B. C.
	Lehi and his little company, however,
were not the first colonists who landed in

[Column 2]
the western hemisphere. We read in the
Book of Mormon of a very ancient peo-
ple called the Jaredites, the founder of
which was Jared. He was supposed to be
one of the builders of the Tower of Babel,
and is presumed to be a descendant of Shem.
Little is told in the Book of Ether of the
private character of Jared, but he must
have been a great and good man and also
held the priesthood when God scattered
and confounded the languages of these pre-
sumptuous builders. Jared and his broth-
ers plead with Him that their language and
that of their friends might not be changed.
Their prayer was heard and the Lord
promised to lead them to a new land, choice
above all others, when He would make of
them a great and mighty people, and He
would go before them as their guide.
	In obedience to the command of the Lord
Jared with his brother and their families
and friends gathered their flocks, herds and
seeds of various kinds, and commenced their
journey in the wilderness as the Lord
might lead. They were going to a new
land far away from their eastern home,
across the ocean to a land uninhabited by
mortal man.
	They appear to have collected every
thing that could have been of any use to
them that they could carry. They took
hives of honey bees (known to them by the
name Deseret.)
	The valley into which the Lord first led
them they called Nimrod. Here they tar-
ried for a time, preparing for the long
journey that lay before them. Their wan-
derings were long and tedious, but at last
they reached the great ocean. The place
where they tarried they named Moriancu-
mer. Here they remained for four years,
at the end of which time the Lord visited
the brother of Jared (Mahonry Moriancumer)
in a cloud and chastened him and his breth-
ren, because they had grown careless and
neglected to call upon Him. Repentance
followed this reproof, and their sins were
forgiven them.
	While here the brother of Jared was com-
manded by the Lord to build eight barges.
This command he obeyed with the assis-
tance of the company. The vessels were
small and light in construction. When
they were completed Jared and his people
with their animals and all their belongings
went on board. After a stormy voyage of
three hundred and forty-four days they
reached their destination. It is supposed
they landed on the southern shore of the
Gulf of California.
	How thankful they were that they had
reached their new home! They gave
thanks to God for bringing them safely to
the land of promise.
	Their next duty was to prepare for the
future. They commenced to till the soil
and were greatly blessed in their labors.
They were a righteous people and began to
grow and increase in number and in wealth.
	In course of time Jared and his brother
grew old and died. Before their death the
people wished to be governed by a king
and Orihah, the youngest son of Jared, was
chosen. He reigned in righteousness and
wisdom, instructing the people in the ways
of the Lord. He lived to a very great age
and was succeeded by his son Kib, who in
his old age resigned his kingdom to his son
Shule. At one time during the reign of
Kib he was taken into captivity by his son
Corihor, and kept a prisoner for many years.
	Shule also reigned in righteousness
and was a great and mighty man, yet his


[Column 1]
Sisters Cynthia E. Packard and Sylvia
Griffin, counselors; Sister Alice Neves Dob-
son, secretary, and Sister Margaret A. Prea-
tor treasurer.
	We have but few members as our ward
is small, but all are interested and are ener-
getic workers so far as they are able. As
we are rather scattered on our farms, there
being no towns, some of the sisters living
farthest away having three miles to come,
our meetings are not held as often nor are
they as well attended as we would wish, and
it is a difficult matter for our teachers to
visit every month. As we hold our meet-
ings monthly we have very good meetings
when we do meet, and are always blest
with a goodly portion of the spirit of God.
The sisters are full of love and charity to-
ward each other, and try to follow the ex-
ample set them by their worthy president.
	Trusting these few lines will find room
in your excellent paper, I remain,
Your sister in the Gospel,
SYLVIA GRIFFIN.
ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
	A special conference of the Relief Society
of the St. John's Stake of Zion was held at
St. Johns, Arizona, Feb. 20, 1899. On
the stand were Dr. Karl G. Maeser, Elder
L. John Nuttall, President E. L. S. Udall,
her first counselor and some leading breth-
ren and sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Udall in her remarks said: "This is
not the usual time for holding our confer-
ence, but on account of Brother Nuttall
being here in the interest of the society we
have this privilege." Said she had visited
each society in the Stake since our last con-
ference.
	Elder L. John Nuttall said he had the
special mission of looking after the Relief
Society, given him while our beloved Presi-
dent Woodruff was living. "The property
rights of the society here are not in the
safe condition they are in and near Utah.
***The instructions I give you to day
will only be preparatory for the time when
I shall be permitted to visit you in your re-
spective wards, as the time now is too
limited. I have found in my travels that
the sisters do not understand the object of
the organization fully. The Prophet Joseph
on the first day of its organization said, 'It
is to provoke your husbands to good works,
to correct morals and strengthen virtue.'
My sisters do you realize there is anything
for you to do in this organization to cor-
rect these evil conditions? Now is the time
to put down iniquity, correct the morals
and strengthen the virtues of the children.
You can qualify yourselves to expound the
scriptures by giving lectures, reading, etc.
Take certain passages of scripture and
speak upon them. We are living in an ad-
vanced age and must keep up with the
times. Take care of your wheat, store it
up for a time of famine and pestilence, so
when this time comes, as it will come, the
grain you have stored away will increase
with you and the power of the adversary
will fail in this direction."
	Dr. Karl G. Maeser said, "I rise only to
bear testimony to the beautiful instructions
given by Brother Nuttall. If you will
abide by these instructions and put them
into practice you will indeed be saviors up-
on Mount Zion."
	President William Gibbons said we
should carry the instructions given here
this morning to our homes in the several
wards, that all the people might have the
benefit of them.

[Column 2]
	President E. L. S. Udall said, "We have
had a spiritual feast this morning. Confer-
ence will now be adjourned for six months."
	The choir sang and benediction was pro-
nounced by Brother Wm. Gibbons.
MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.
WEBER STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake, held in
the 3rd ward meeting house, Ogden, March
9, 1899, President Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Singing, "Come let us anew." Prayer
by Patriarch Thomas Morley. Continued
by singing "Come O, Thou King of kings."
Minutes of the December conference were
read and accepted.
	President Jane S. Richards hoped the
house would be crowded today, so much so
that all would realize the need of a larger
one, some had remarked that the sisters
were extravagant in wanting a house of
their own. Said she had seen many faces
since last meeting with us, but none were
so dear to her as the Saints of God. Spoke
of her visit to California and her meeting
with the Saints there, and of the holy,
peaceful influence that they enjoy in their
little meetings. It was indeed like a love
feast to drink in the sweet spirit that was
present, and to feel the firm hand shakes
and hear the fervent "God bless you" was
indeed a benediction. Many there who
long since left the fold were coming back to
us, which made her heart rejoice. She had
nothing but praise for the Saints of Cali-
fornia, such a spirit of unity was in their
midst. This same spirit was present with
us this morning, this was what we desired.
Some of the later words of our Lord and
Master were that we should "be one, as He
and His Father were one." Referred to
the Relief Society meeting held in the
Templeton, and the resolutions adopted
there on the observance of the anniversary
of the organization of the Relief Society,
and the annual membership fee to be col-
lected, and the need of the same.
	Brother D. H. Peery was pleased to meet
with the sisters, could endorse what sister
Richards had said in regard to the good in-
fluence that is felt among the missionaries
out in the world. Felt that the mission
of the sisters was great, but that they
would prove themselve equal to the duties;
they were more noble in purpose than were
the brethren. "Peace is almost leaving the
earth, men are losing faith in each other
and a spirit of malice and hatred is taking
the place of love. This is not right, we
should cultivate a spirit of charity and love.
We have come here to be hid in the cham-
bers of the Lord while His judgments are
abroad, and this should be a land of peace.
We are on the eve of the greatest events
that have ever transpired." Thought the
sisters should leave behind them a monu-
ment in the shape of a house.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the
sisters. Said to her the faces of the Saints
were the most beautiful picture she could
look upon. Her desire was to comfort and
bless the sisters. She had never had a
doubt of the divinity of this work, had re-
ceived a testimony when a child, and felt
herself the happiest person in the world.
"The Lord has been so merciful to us and
the Gospel is so grand and so glorious,
there is in it such an inspiration, a power,
a peace that the world knows nothing of.
It is a very foretaste of heaven, a preparing
for that change—the reign of peace—it is
so soul-satisfying that we have no room

[Column 3]
for hard feelings." In looking back to the
days of Kirtland and seeing the prophet and
the Temple, her soul was stirred and she
rejoiced more than ever in this grand and
glorious work. Urged the sisters to read
the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and
Covenants. "Let your children see and
hear you read them and know that you en-
joy them, and you and they will be blessed."
Referred to her own mother and her read-
ing of the Book of Mormon just previous to
her death, and the calm resignation she ex-
hibited when reading the words, "I bid
you all farewell," knowing that it was her
own as well as the prophet's farewell to
earth. Said we should never speak disre-
spectfully of the priesthood, nor allow our
children to. We should feel that we have
no trouble, everything is beauty, grandeur
and harmony, even the peace that passeth
all understanding. The prophet told the
sisters they were to bless each other. "Let
us banish from our hearts everything that
is evil, and just as we prepare ourselves to
receive blessings, so they will increase.
May the Lord grant unto us the spirit of
inspiration, peace, joy and everything
glorious through Jesus."
	Brother Joseph Hall had greatly rejoiced
in the remarks of President Zina D. H.
Young, and knew that upon her rested the
spirit of the prophet and of the living God.
The sentiments she had uttered were grand
and enobling. Gave good instructions and
exhorted all to faithfulness.
	Sister Mary Lightner felt that the spirit
of the Lord was present. "We as Saints
should set good examples, we are as a
light set upon a hill. Men have testified
that there is a power among this people
that they cannot fathom. We should honor
the priesthood of the Lord, remembering
the fate of Aaron and his sister, beware of
our doings, speak no evil, but live to be
worthy of every blessing that the Lord has
in store for us." Told of a recent visit
with a Josephite, who tried to prove that
Joseph was a fallen prophet, how she was
able by the Holy Spirit to refute the same
and prove that he was what we claim, and
that his prophecies were daily being fulfilled.
Bore a powerful testimony to the divinity
of this work.
	Sister Emily Richards believed that in
confessing our faults we gained a blessing
that we could gain in no other way. Re-
ferred to her recent sickness and the time it
had given her for reflection. Wondered
what good deed she had ever done without
some selfish motive. These sick seasons
are precious moments to us, in which we
approach nearer to our Heavenly Father.
While in this mood Sister Zina had visited
her, bringing with her the spirit of health,
which is in her very touch. Knew the
spirit of the prophet rested upon her, and
that she was "blessed above women."
Referred to the reading of the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants, and
the peace and joy such reading brings into
our lives. We should attend Relief Society
meetings and learn from our aged sisters
while they are still with us. Spoke of her
Washington experience and how the Lord
had aided her, that she had been able to
stem the tide of opposition that she had
met; also spoke of our sisters at the Wo-
man's Council, and the good they had
accomplished.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
Bishop John Alred.
ACT. SEC.


[Column 1]
days were full of sorrow. He was succeeded
on the throne by the son of his old age,
Omer. Omer was a righteous but unfor-
tunate king. He lived to be exceedingly
old and two years before his death anoint-
ed his son Emer to reign in his stead.
	Emer was one of the best kings of his
race. In his reign the people prospered,
became owners of large herds of useful
animals and rich in manufactured goods.
Sixty-two years are numbered as his reign,
and he died full of years and honor. He
was succeeded by one of his sons, Corian-
lum, whom he had anointed four years
before his death.
	Coriantum was a righteous ruler, and
during his reign the people were blessed
and prospered and many large cities were
built. He lived until he was one hundred
and forty-two years old, and was succeeded
on the throne by his son Com.
	Com, the son of Coriantum, during his
reign the people increased greatly in num-
bers and spread widely over the land; but
they also grew in iniquity, and secret com-
binations that a few generations before had
almost caused the destruction of the race,
were revived. One of the leaders of these
bands was a son of Com’s named Heth.
This young man with others conspired
against the king, and Heth slew him with
his sword and reigned in his stead.
	Heth proved a cruel and vicious king,
and the people increased in wickedness.
The Lord sent many prophets among them
who called upon them to repent, declaring
if they did not a terrible famine should
come upon the land; but their words were
rejected and they were cruelly persecuted.
	The people still persisted in their iniquity
and the famine came as predicted, and
the horrors that attended can scarcely be
imagined. Disease followed and the peo-
ple rapidly perished. Then those who re-
mained began to repent and called upon the
Lord, and when they had sufficiently hum-
bled themselves the Lord sent the long
needed rain and the remnants of the race be-
gan to revive, then Shez, the only survivor
of the royal house, reigned over the few
that remained. Shez was a virtuous mon-
arch and taught his people righteousness,
and they were greatly prospered. He lived
to a great age and at his death was succeed-
ed by his youngest son, Riplakish.
	Riplakish greatly afflicted his people by
imposing on them heavy taxes, and when
they could not pay them cast them into
prison, where he compelled them to labor
to sustain him in his luxury and wicked-
ness. If any prisoner refused he was put
to death. For forty-two years the people
endured these oppressions, they then re-
belled, rose, and in their anger slew the
king and drove his descendants out of the
land,and what form of government followed
is not known, but after many years one of
his descendants, Morianton,established him-
self as king.
	Morianton was mild in disposition though
energetic, and during his reign the people
prospered and the nation grew exceedingly
rich. He lived to a very great age and
eight years before his death abdicated in
favor of his son Kim. Kim was a wicked
king and the Lord was so displeased with
him that he permitted his brother to rebel
against him and dethrone him, and held
him in captivity the remainder of his life.
	Levi, the son of Kim, when he was forty- 
two years old rose in rebellion and deposed
his uncle, who occupied the throne. He
was a righteous king and the people

[Column 2]
prospered under his reign, and at his death
was succeeded by his son Corom.
	Corom was a good king all his days, and
he died at a very advanced age, when his
son Kish ascended the throne. Nothing is
known of his character, but at his death
his son Lib succeeded him.
	Lib lived many years, was blessed with
a numerous posterity, and the sacred his-
torian Ether writes: "Never could be a
people more blessed than they, and more
prospered by the Lord.” They greatly ad-
vanced in the arts of civilization, they im-
proved in the manufacture of goods, agri-
culture and mining. When Lib died he
was succeeded by his son Hearthom.
	After Hearthom had reigned twenty-
four years the kingdom was wrested from
him and he was held in captivity the re-
mainder of his life. Nothing is known of
his character. For some time the kingdom
was ruled by usurpers.
	The next rightful heir to the throne was
Aaron, a son of Heth and a grandson of
Hearthom the king. He, with his grand-
father and father Heth and his son Amni-
gaddah, and his son Coriantum also, were
kept in captivity by the usurpers, but in
after years the kingdom was reconquered
and the dynasty restored.
	After a lengthy war Com, the son of
Coriantum, regained possession of the king-
dom. At this time it was divided, one
half being governed by Amghid, but after
a desolating war of years Com gained
power over the whole realm. While he
was king robber bands began to appear and
sought to destroy the kingdom. Com
fought these bands valiantly without suc-
cess, for the people generally were in sym-
pathy with them. Many prophets were
sent of the Lord who foretold the destruc-
tion of the race if they did not repent of
their wickedness. But they heeded not
the voice of warning, their words were re-
jected and the wicked Jaredites sought the
lives of the men of God. The king pro-
tected the prophets and while they were
with him they prophecied many things for
his comfort, and he was blessed of the Lord
the remainder of his days. He lived to a
good old age and was succeeded to the
throne by his son Shiblon.
	(Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTICE TO ALL THOSE INTER-
      ESTED IN SILK CULTURE IN
	   THE STATE OF UTAH.
	The Utah Silk Commission desires to
call attention to the fact that the time for
raising silk is again upon us, and we trust
that those who intend entering upon the
work this year will write to us at once for
eggs. Those who are taking up the work
for the first time will kindly state the num-
ber and size of the trees from which they
can obtain leaves; also the number of per-
sons who can give their time during the
latter period of the raising season, so that
we will be able to send the necessary
amount of eggs.
	We also desire to state that eggs can
be obtained from the commission free, and
we would prefer every one who is going
to raise the worms to have eggs from us as
we provide a quality which gives a much
better result than those raised by people
having little or no experience. We will
also send pamphlet of instructions free to
any one wishing information upon the sub-
ject.

[Column 2]
   We trust that many people throughout
the state have already planted numbers of
mulberry trees, and have been watchful
lest any of those which have grown are in
danger of being destroyed. We also wish
to say to those who have trees and do not
care to use them that they may do a great deal
towards establishing this important indus-
try by allowing others to use the leaves,
and we assure you that it will only benefit
the trees even if they are stripped several
times, they will soon become much more
thrifty, and this will also be a means of dis-
posing of the fruit which is sometimes an
annoyance especially when trees are planted
on the street. The best mulberry seed can
also be obtained from the commission.
	As a whole, the commission feels very
much encouraged with the results of last
year’s work, and trust it will be very much
increased this year, in all the departments
of work. Address all communications to
			MARGARET A. CAINE,
Secretary Utah Silk Commission, Salt
Lake City, Utah.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
	   Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
	   The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
	   We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		Lorenzo Snow, Prest.
		George M. Cannon, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

		NOTICE.

To complete my volumes of the Woman’s
Exponent I lack the following numbers:
Volume VII., No. 3, July 1, 1878; Volume
XI., No. 16, January 15,1873; VolumeXIII.,
Nos. 1 and 2, June 1 and 15, 1884; Vol-
ume XVI., No. 20, March 15, 1888; also
April 1, 1892, and October 1, 1895.
	To any one willing to part with them I
will pay ten cents a paper, but please com-
municate by letter or card before sending
papers. Address
				ROMANIA B. PRATT,
   Room 226 Constitution Bldg., S. L. City.

R. K. THOMAS
	Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
	Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

