Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1898. NO.8.


CONTENTS:
	Letter from Miss Anthony. Beautiful Saltair—
Mary A. J. Lambert. Terrible News. The Em-
press of Austria. Association Gleanings—E. B.
Wells. Woman’s Work. Save the Men—Eliza-
beth Stuart Phelps  The City Park—M. E K.
R. S. Reports. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—In Memoriam. Organization of
the First Presidency. Conference Notices. Great
Events Transpiring. Executive Meetings in
Omaha.
	POETRY:—The Gifts You Hold—Lydia D.
Alder. My Beautiful Mother—Rosa Pearle.


THE GIFTS YOU HOLD.

Why cling to earthly baubles, false as fair are
	they,
For all you can hold in your cold dead hands,
	Is that you have given away.
Why build such towering castles, for they are
	made of clay,
While all you can hold in your cold dead hands
	Is that you have given away. 
Why choose the costly diadem, or wear the rai-
	ment gay,
When all you can hold in your cold dead hands,
	Is that you have given away. 
Why seek for earth’s renown, 'tis fleeting as a
	day,
While all you can hold in your cold dead hands,
	Is that you have given away. 
Make lighter some burden’d heart, as you journey
	day by day,
For closely pressed in your cold dead hands 
	Lives the love you have given away.
Then give true love forever, thine actions let it
	sway,
Its flowers will bloom in your cold dead hands,
	With the gifts you have given away.
Up in the shining mansions, lasting treasures
	you’ll find some day,
And overflowing in your cold dead hands, 
	 Lo! that you have given away 
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


LETTER FROM MISS ANTHONY.
To the Daughters of the American Nation-
	al Council:

	Dear Friends:—Will you permit me to
address you, who, although not a member
of your order, am a daughter of the American
Revolution as well as a daughter of Ameri-
ca, hence doubly entitled to be reckoned
American?
	I trust that your Council will demand
that this country shall be governed by
American women as well as American men.
While all foreign-born men, by due process
of law, may become full-fledged citizens,
armed with the franchise, all native born
women are doomed to disfranchisement—
perpetual minors, perpetual aliens! For-
eign-born men are sovereigns in their adopt-
ed country; native-born women are subjects
in their own America.
	Think of what lies before us; in addition
to all the different nationalities now wield-
ing their power in our “body-politic,” we
shall soon have the semi-barbaric sons of


Spain in all the “isles of the sea,” together
with those of Hawaii admitted into this
holy of holies of our American republic.
	Can you, Daughters of America, see this
tremendous foreign balance of power com-
ing into our government without making a
demand for the admission of at least
American-born women to the franchise?
For native-born women to be ruled by the
men of their own nationality—their own
civilization—is quite humiliating enough:
but to live in subjection to the men of
foreign countries, void of the first principles
of our free institutions, is surely a degrada-
tion too dire for the Daughters of America
to submit to without an earnest protest. 
	The fiat has gone forth, there is no es-
cape from universal manhood suffrage, and
the one and only antidote for all its ills is
universal womanhood suffrage. There can
be no going backward. All men, of all
classes and all nationalities, have the right
to vote and all women must have it. There-
fore, the question now is, when shall the
crowning right of American citizenship be
placed in the hands of women, whom men
love to call the better half of the people?
	That you, the Daughters of America,
may give the weight of your influence to
hasten the coming of this good time is the 
earnest wish of
			Yours sincerely,
				SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


BEAUTIFUL SALTAIR.

[Written for Press Club Day at the Lake.]
	Salt Lake City, the “Mecca of the West,”
is an idealistic home, nestling among the
Rockies so mysterious with Indian legends,
and cradled between the snowy peaks and
sunny slopes of the Wasatch and Oquirrh
chains of mountains. By her thrifty firesides
of cottage and mansion, amidst her abun-
dant fields and hanging vineyards,and in the
cultured shade of her public parks, gray
haired sires love to repeat the story of the
perilous pioneer days, whose semi-centen-
nial anniversary was so recently celebrated
with pride and pageantry in the heart of
the once American desert.
	Here sixty-five thousand souls pursue
life in its various vocations, on the farm, in
the bank, the mine and factory. Salt Lake
City is no longer a half known little oasis
in the sagebrush desert, but a flourishing
Arcadia with metropolitan attainments.
She is proud of her sons and daughters,
her elegant homes and finished schools;
proud, too, of her public buildings, her
parks, her health and pleasure resorts, and
most and best of all that combine beauty,
health, pleasure and magnitude is Saltair,
the famous bathing resort thirty minutes
ride by rail from the centre of the city.
Fastened upon the bosom of the great Salt
Lake, where saline breezes kiss with health
the weary invalid, and whose surface is
dotted by hundreds of happy bathers who
dip and float with content and idleness. 
	To the strains of the latest waltz the
merry dancers lightly trip over the glassy

[Column 2]
smoothnss of the pavilion, the largest of
its kind in the world.
	Saltair, pleasure loving daughter of the
sleeping sea of the west! A miniature 
Venice, not of the Adriatic but of America’s 
dead sea. Reposing upon her mother’s bosom 
like a beautiful bird, breeze-kissed and
brilliant with flashing jewels, her wings
out-spread she poises with grace on the
crest of the salt-capped wave as it breaks
upon the whitened beach of that mystical 
sea of the West. Her resting place is well 
chosen near the home of the seagull, whom
she so naively typifies. The musical lap-
ping of the wavelets caress her plumage,
whilst she holds on her beak the silver 
threads of romance and reality. Merrily
she greets the rising sun and throughout
the long summer days she reclines upon
the placid waters, vain of her own beauty
reflected within the sapphire depths, until
the decline of day when she prepares with
gladness to receive within the cover of her
reaching wings the guests whose arrival is
signaled by curling steam and puffing speed.
	When evening shades are gathering Salt-
air reaches the height of her magnificent 
sublimity. Bathed in the changing hues of
the sunset glory the picture is the realiza-
tion of fairydom. As by the touch of magic
appear the forms of youth and beauty, 
grace and dignity, gliding and swaying to
the rhythm of music and laughter, whilst 
dancing lights are flitting like fire flies upon
the bosom of the lake and playing with the
stars at hide and seek among the rippling 
waves, vanishing at last beneath the silver
bridge thrown by the moon across the
water, a typical pathway to heaven.
	As midnight approaches Saltair Queen of
Salt Lake, sinks in slumber draped in
her mantle of darkness and solitude, un-
conscious of the joys and heart-burnings of
the day that is dead, and heedless of those
that may come on the morrow.
	And so through the long summer days
she lives a kaleidiscopic life until the chill- 
ing touch of King Frost gives her warning 
that her reign is over. With dignity she
enfolds herself in winter’s white mantle and
statuesque as a frozen goddess she awaits
the return of her votaries whom the summer
time will bring again to her embrace.
			MARY A. J. LAMBERT.
Silver Lake, Sep. 1, 1898.


"Would that we could have a woman
surgeon-general; a woman at the head of
the Commissary Department; a woman at 
the head of the trained nurses, with power
to control each department. Do you think
then that red tape would shut away the
needed food for the well or the sick?"
—Miss Anthony.

	Miss Anthony says that man does his
own part of the work well—that is  the
hewing, cutting and killing---but for the
woman’s part, the housekeeping, the mak-
ing of things homelike and comfortable for
the tens of thousands of mothers’ boys, he 
is a total failure.


WOMANS EXPONENT


TERRIBLE NEWS.

	Vienna, Sep. 10.—The news of the assas-
sination of the queen reached here shortly
before 6 o’clock. It spread like lightning.
The streets were suddenly filled with multi-
tudes of people, many of them became
impassable for vehicles.
	Extra editions were issued by all the
papers. Many Viennese considered the re-
port incredible until the semi-official Weiner
Abend Post appeared confirming the state-
ments of the other papers.
	All the papers accompanied the announce-
ment with warm tributes to the empress.
They were eagerly snatched from the hands
of the sellers and were read aloud to groups
of citizens. An indescribable grief over-
powers the people. The performance at
the court theatres and the jubilee exhibition
have been cancelled.
	Emperor Francis Joseph received the
news at Schoenbruhn. His majesty’s jour-
ney to attend the maneuvres at Zips,
Hungary, was of course abandoned. 
All the theatres here and in the provin-
cial towns are closed.
	The extra edition of the semi-official
Wiener Abend Post appeared with black
borders. It expresses the “universal sor-
row felt at the loss of our noble empress
whose life was one long chain of philan-
thropy,” adding: “She had gone abroad
in order to obtain fresh strength, but only
to become a victim of a wicked and mad at-
tack.”
	It concludes with an expression of
“sincere sympathy with the emperor, upon
whose beloved head such grief has fallen in
the year of his jubilee. ”

THE SISTERS OF THE EMPRESS. 

	“The assassination of the Empress Eliza-
beth of Austria has created an immense
sensation in the French capital where the
sympathy of the people is all the greater
because it is remembered that her sister, the
Duchess d’ Alencon, perished in the terrible
Charity Bazaar fire last year.
	“Her other sister, the former queen of
Naples, has resided in Paris since the death
of her husband and the murdered empress
was a frequent visitor there and familiar to
Parisians. Sympathetic crowds gathered
near the Austrian embassy soon after the
sad news began to spread through the city.”


THE EMPRESS OF AUSTRIA.
	
	Geneva, Switzerland, Sep. 10.---The
Empress of Austria was assassinated at the
Hotel Beaurivage this afternoon by an an-
archist who was arrested. He stabbed her
majesty with a stiletto.
	The Empress of Austria was born Dec. 
24, 1837. She was a daughter of Duke
Maxmillian of Bavaria, and was married to
Francis Joseph, emperor of Austria and 
king of Hungary, April 24, 1854. They
had three children,the Archduchess Gissola,
who is married to Prince Luitpold of
Bavaria; the Archduke Rudolph, who mar-
ried Princess Stephanie of Belgium an
who was (seemingly) assassinated in 1889, 
and the Archduchess Maria Valeria, who
married the Archduke Franz Salvator of 
Austria Tuscany. The late empress was an 
enthusiastic horsewoman.
	It appears that her majesty was walking
from her hotel to the landing place of the 
steamer at about 1 o'clock when an Italian
anarchist suddenly appeared, and approach


ing her stabbed her to the heart. The em-
press fell, got up again and was carried to
the steamer unconscious. The boat started, 
but seeing the empress had not recovered
consciousness the captain returned and the 
empress was carried to the Hotel Beau-
rivage where she expired.
	The murderer is a man named Luchoni.
He was born in Paris of Italian parents.
	The Empress of Austria had been stop-
ping at the Hotel Beaurivage for several
days. It was at first thought the wound
was not serious but she died in a few 
minutes.
	The stretcher upon which the empress
was carried to the hotel was hastily impro-
vised with oars and sail cloth. Doctors and
priests were immediately summoned and a 
telegram was sent to Emperor Francis 
Joseph.
	All efforts to revive her majesty were un-
availing and she expired at three o'clock.
	The wound was just over the left breast.
There was hardly any bleeding. A priest was
secured in time to administer extreme unction

ANOTHER ACCOUNT.

	Berne, Switzerland, Sep. 10.---Another
account of the assassination of the Empress
of Austria says:
	"After having been stabbed from behind, 
the empress rose and walked on board the 
steamer where she fell fainting. The cap-
tain did not wish to put out from the quay,
but did so at the request of the empress
and her suite, there being no apprehension
that she was seriously hurt.
	"The steamer was put back before leav-
ing the open lake and the empress uncon-
scious was carried to the hotel on a 
stretcher."


ASSOCIATION GLEANINGS.
	The Relief Society conference of Summit
Stake was held Tuesday, September 6, at
Hennefer, Mrs. Mary J. Atwood presiding.
A meeting was also held at Coalville.
Dr. E. S. Barney of this city was present,
also Bishop Atwood of Kamas.

	The Relief Society of Oneida held con-
ference at Franklin, Idaho, Tuesday, Sep-
tember 13. Sister E. J. Stevenson of this
city was present and reports an enjoyable
time and excellent meetings, also a meeting
at Preston after conference had adjourned.

	The Relief Society of Sanpete Stake met
in conference at Manti on Friday, Septem-
ber 9, in the Council House. Counselor
Abbie Shoemaker presided in the absence
of the president, Mary A. T. Hyde, who
did not reach there after attending Presi-
dent Woodruff's funeral in time for the
morning session, but was present in the
afternoon as also was her counselor, Alvira
S. Cox, and Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake
City. The meeting was an interesting one
and the subjects of storing grain (after the
abundant harvest this year) and of establish-
ing silk culture as a remunerative home in-
dustry were ably treated upon by the sisters.

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake
held its conference on Saturday, September
10, in the Council House, Miss Christine
Willardson presiding. Meetings at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m., the hall filled with young
women was a delightful picture and the re-
ports from branch associations in the Stake
were very gratifying. Much good instruc-


tion was given concerning education, the
home, and spiritual matters. President
Maiben spoke a short time in the afternoon,
dwelling much upon the home and kindred
interests.
	President M. I. Horne of this Stake of
Zion, her counselors and aids, have been at-
tending meetings in the several wards
giving instruction and encouragement ac-
cording to the needs and circumstances of
the society. They report society affairs
generally very prosperous, although during
the hot weather the meetings have not been
so well attended.
	On Tuesday, September 6, the Cannon
ward held its reuglar meeting, President
Sarah J. Cannon presiding. Meeting con-
vened in the school house adjacent to the
dwellings for convenience although the
ward has a handsome new meeting house,
in the building and furnishing of which the
Relief Society materially assisted. There
was a very good number of sisters present,
many of them young women, which is
very gratifying. The minutes were very
interesting indeed, the speakers were Presi-
dent Sarah J. Cannon, Sisters Caroline
Smoot, Rebecca Williams, Mary E. Sharp,
Martha T. Cannon and E. B. Wells. The
Society seems to be making great progress
in active work. After the close of the
meeting delicate refreshments were served
and a pleasant social hour indulged in.
Such converse among the sisters sweetens
the daily life and promotes union.


WOMAN’S WORK.

	Motto: Disseminate the best that is
thought and known by club women.
	We have arranged to publish a monthly
magazine to be known as the “Woman’s
Work-”
	The literature in the paper written by
our club women throughout the country, is
a ground work for a storehouse of valuable
information. By preserving and circulating
these carefully prepared papers we can
form a companionship for our clubs and
compile a literary magazine of interest and
instruction for those of our sex who are un-
able to join in our work as well as those
who take active part therein.
	The “Woman’s Work” will in no way in-
terfere with our wage earners who now re-
port the news of clubs and their federations,
it will give an impetus to our various club
organs and weekly papers already estab-
lished, it will broaden the work for the field
is a large one.
	We will publish papers and periodicals
verbatim over the full name of the author,
(unless otherwise requested.)
	We hope you will co-operate with the
editors by sending monthly some contribu-
tion that you may deem a credit to your
members and of value to clubs in general.
	An early reply will greatly facilitate our
work, we wish to get out our first issue in
September, and distribute several thousand
copies complimentary, relying on the merits
of the periodical to secure subscribers. The
subscription will be one dollar per annum.
	We trust to have a paper from your club
for the initiative number. Thanking you
in advance for any interest you will give us
in this work.
				EVELYN FITZPATRICK,
				ELLEN DOWNS,
					Editors and Proprietors.
No. 425 South Court St., Montgomery, Ala.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY BEAUTIFUL MOTHER.

BY ROSA PEARLE.
I see her again as she sits in her chair,
Her pure pallid face, her silver kis’t hair;
And I think the wide world holds never another
So fair and so sweet as my beautiful mother.

O, my beautiful mother! with love in her eyes—
Which once were as blue as the mid-summer
	skies;
And a smile on her lips, which with tenderness
	glows—
The lips which were once as the pink of the rose—

Your years have been spent in the deeds half di-
	vine,
Which only a mother with love can entwine;
And out of the lessons which doubt cannot
	smother,
I turn to the faith of my beautiful mother.

And, once more, I kneel at the foot of His throne,
And ask, as a sinner, to let me atone
For speech that was reckless of hurt to another
And wounded the heart of my beautiful mother.

And I say as I look at her, there in her chair— 
A spirit about her that breathes of a prayer—
In all the wide world there’s never another
So fair and so sweet as my beautiful mother.
								Selected.


SAVE THE MEN.

	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps thus calls upon
the country to “cut the blood-red tape to
tatters,” and save the men who are to re-
turn from Porto Rico from transport horrors.
From her home in Gloucester, August 30,
under the title of “Transport Disgrace,”
she protests against permitting the 5,000
United States soldiers, who still remain at
Porto Rico, to be brought home under the
conditions which have prevailed on board
the transports which have borne the sol-
diers from Cuba. Mrs. Phelps says:
	“An immense current of horror is passing
through this astonished land. We are
wasting time and vitality enough to save
hundreds of lives in the sheer emotion
caused by the inhuman blunders under
which the heroes of this war are perishing.
Let us stop shrieking and get to the rescue.
Mere outcries will not help the dying. In-
vestigation will not feed the starved dead.
Blaming the Secretary of War will not heal
the heartbroken living. This is not the
time to investigate, but to act. Five thou-
sand men still remain to be sent home at
once by a transport system to whose awful
mercies the societies which punish cruelty
would not allow hogs or sheep to be en-
trusted.
	“What is to prevent the same atrocities
from happening on every ship? They can
and must be stopped.
	“If Government cannot take care of its
heroes, the people can. I suggest that the
governors of states, the Red Cross, the
Volunteer Aids, or any organization pos-
sessing suitable positions, sympathy, energy
and resources offer their services by tele-
graph to the President for the definite pur-
pose of properly providing for the remain-
der of our soldiers about to embark. I do
not believe that such offers would be re-
pulsed, but on the contrary, that they
would be welcome if put into suitable
shape. The national disgrace is too deep
to ignore. The people of the United
States will not bear much more. There is
not an hour to lose. There is mercy
enough, money enough, energy enough to


put every transport, in proper condition
within a week, and bring every hero home
in decency and comfort.
	“A dozen men of the Volunteer Aid, a
dozen women of the Red Cross, a few peer-
less and firm governors of states would
bring order out of this pitiful chaos in a
very few days. Cut the blood-red tape to
tatters! Storm the War Department—not
with abuse, but with offers to aid! Put
delegates of mercy on every transport—if
necessary charter our own transports—but
save the men!
		ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS.


[Column 1]
THE CITY PARK.

	How shall I express my gratitude upon
learning that the ground once occupied by
our Fort is now to become a city park?
And I am sure it could not be put to a bet-
ter use. It is a sacred spot, especially so to
the pioneers who arrived here in 1847, my-
self being one of them. It was a charming
sight to behold, our home, although built
of logs in the form of a fort—the doors in-
side and only a porthole outside to watch
the Indians. A portion was built by the
first pioneers which would be finished by
the second which was our company, the
Battalion boys had arrived about the same
time. We brought grain and implements
for farming. The first company arrived
July 24, and our company came two months
later, it was on September 1. We met the
first company at Pacifiic springs, (going
back) so called because it was the first
spring which ran toward the Pacific ocean.
Captain Wallace and a few of his company
arrived on the 12th of September; but in
climbing these mountains the teams were
greatly exhausted and came in a few days
later. Our family arrived on the 12th at
4 p.m. And how happy to find a table
ready for us to sit down and eat our dinner
in a house once more, after traveling and
eating out of doors for four months.
	Here we found Ellen Kimball and Clara
Young and her mother, Sister Harriet
Young, who came with the first company
and had a home in a log room, a chimney
in the corner, a door, and a porthole for a
window, but soon after had a little window
cut near the door and felt it was a quiet,
good resting place, for near by just outside
of the Fort was a deep, cold spring of water
which was very acceptable; besides there
was a creek coming from the mountains.
	Brother Wallace and family, Brother
Pierce and family, Brother Smithies and
family were our neighbors, occupying one
corner, the northeast, of the Fort, and
many others.
	But the Indians’ home seemed to be out
at the warm springs. They came occasion-
ally asking for “teacup-an-a-muck,” that
is “give me something to eat.” We never
failed to grant their request, this made
friends of them, and since we had spoiled
their hunting-ground our cattle would
make amends again. We had very pleas-
ant fall weather for a long time, and when
the snow came it would last only three
days and it would all be gone.
	Now excuse me if I tell you about an ox
in our company, the largest one, I think,
and yet the most poor and bony animal I
ever saw; but now he had nothing to do
but eat and grow fat, and in six weeks he
was killed for beef. It was the most ten-
der and sweet meat I ever ate.   
	I must not forget to tell you that Sister

[Column 2]
Eliza R. Snow was Clara D. Young’s com-
panion, the same as I was to Ellen S. Kim-
ball, and as we were neighbors we felt to
share each others joys and sorrows as the
case might be. We looked upon Sister
Eliza as the presiding officer, especially at
our meetings, for we held prayer meetings
occasionally, I think about once a week,
besides our Sunday meetings at the Bowery.
We felt the need of our Heavenly Father’s
care and also felt that we had much to be
thankful for.
	Did not we feel that our prayers were
heard and answered when the seagulls
came and devoured the crickets? For they
would gorge themselves, then throw up
and eat again, so determined to sweep them
off the land. How wonderful to behold!
I can never forget the sight.
	The grasshoppers, too, came and went
many times, but the last time they came on
Sunday and as we came out of meeting we
saw the ground covered with leaves. “How
is this?” said I. “Don’t you see the trees
full of grasshoppers?” said one to me.
Sure enough, and they only stayed twenty-
four hours, for about noon the next day
they all arose and went towards the lake.
But what a sight they left behind! All
our herbs, catnip, garden sage, wormwood,
tansy, etc., were utterly gone. Not only
so, but every young vegetable such as cab-
bage, turnips, and radishes were gone as
well. But a few days afterwards we found
at the lake the grasshoppers drowned, and
how astonished to see so many winrows
on and near the shore. No wonder they had
destroyed so much for there were so many
of them, swept into the lake by a strong
wind, as you could see. This shows what
the Lord can and will do for those who love
and serve Him in spirit and in truth; for
He seeketh such to worship Him.
	August 17, 1898.		M. E. K.


Miss Clara Barton continues to hold up
the humanitarian side of our relations to
Cuba with noble persistence for a woman
who now nears her three score and ten.
She has gone to Havanna where she will
feed the hungry, clothe the clotheless, care
for the sick and soap the soapless with her
usual vigor and system and thoroughness
and practical good sense. She knows when
it is a good rule to cut through rules, and
she cuts courageously for the good of all
concerned. It is government departmental
system that has caused so much suffering
among the men near Santiago, where the
Red Cross could not readily reach them.
A chaplain of a Michigan regiment wrote
home: “You cannot imagine anything
more hideously horrible than our hospital
system; piles of stores at some places, while
here we have no tents, no cots, no food, no
medicine, no stimulants, and men fading
away all about us. One doctor cried and
sobbed while telling the colonel about the
conditions and his inability to cut the red
tape of the ‘system’ and get the most sim-
ple remedies for men dying under his hands.
it is over a month now that I have been
lying on the ground out of doors, having
passed through a siege of yellow fever
meanwhile. I am splendidly well now,
thank God, and able to do all the duties
falling to me.”—Woman’s Journal.
	Miss Sophronisba Breckinridge, of Ken-
tucky, has just been made a Fellow
in the department of physical science in the
University of Chicago.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the cost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY SEPTEMBER 15, 1898.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF.
		“Who soweth go[-]d seed shall surely reap;
		The year grows rich as it groweth old
		And [-]ife's latest sands are its sands of gold.”
	How true this is of the life just gone out
in this world, the life of that great, good and
reverend man, President Wilford Woodruff.
True is it that the last years of his life were
full of golden deeds, that will shine for-
ever—deeds of love, of mercy and of that
abundant charity that never faileth. His
name will go down to remotest ages be-
cause of his great kindness, his gentle ten-
derness and his love of simplicity in all
things that help to make life sweet and
beautiful. He was in all places and at all
times essentially a peacemaker, and the
Savior said, “Blessed are the peacemakers,
for they shall be called the children of God.”
	All the virtues that are most dear and
sacred in the home and in the friendships
and relations of human life among one’s
associates and fellow men characterized the
life of President Woodruff. In this respect
he was greatly honored of the Lord; he had
no enemies, his humility was most remark-
able in a man raised to an exalted position
among his brethren in the Church, and it
drew the affections of the people to him to
a degree unsurpassed in the history of men
in our day. It has been truly said of him
that he was without guile, honest, straight-
forward, industrious, and in fact he was
possessed of all the best qualities that make
men worthy of honor in the world and be-
fore all men. He was not only as Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon described him, a
natural man, but naturally a Latter-day Saint.
For the Gospel he was willing to endure all
things and all hardships  and to promulgate
its truths he traveled by land and by sea
thousands and tens of thousands of miles,
and encountered untold suffering, dangers
and exposure.
	Our readers are most of them familiar
with the excellent traits of their venerable
and dearly beloved President who has just
left us to join the innumerable company of
Saints in the worlds on high, but it seems
only proper to let the whole world know
how grandly he stands out from and above
the men of his time. His departure was so
sudden even after the advanced years of his
long and useful life, that his shadow still 
lingers on our pathway and it is difficult to
realize that we shall see him no more in our
midst in the assemblies of the Saints.

[Column 2]
	Sketches of President Woodruff’s life
have been written by some of our ablest
men, and in our small paper it is impossi-
ble to do justice to the remarkable career,
public and private of one whose days have
been so rich in interesting incidents and so
replete in experiences of an eventful char-
acter.
	President Woodruff is of Puritan
lineage of English descent and was born
March 1, 1807, in Connecticutt in Hartford
Co., in the town of Farmington, now called
Avon; his forefathers were among the first
settlers in Hartford county. He inclined
to be religious from his boyhood but did
not become connected with any of the 
churches until he heard the Gospel of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	On December 29, 1833, he heard
Elders Zera Pulsipher and Elijah Cheeny
preach the Gospel as proclaimed by Joseph
Smith and also read from the Book of Mor-
mon, he was convinced of the truth and
two days afterwards was baptized and con-
firmed by Elder Pulsipher. He shortly
after went to Kirtland and became acquaint-
ed with the Prophet Joseph. On the first
of May the same year he went up to Mis-
souri with Zion’s Camp. January 13, he
started on his first mission without purse or
scrip to preach the Gospel and traveled in
Arkansas, Tennessee and Kentucky. This
was the commencement of his missionary
life. From that time he devoted himself
the greater part of his time to carrying the
Gospel to the nations in our own and fore-
ign lands. While away proclaiming the
Gospel he received word that he had been
chosen by revelation to fill a vacancy in the
Council of the Twelve Apostles, and that
he was to go to Far West, Missouri, and 
prepare to take a mission to England. April
26, 1839, Wilford Woodruff and George A.
Smith were ordained members of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. In Eng-
land in connection with Heber C. Kimball
he performed a wonderful mission which is 
definitely recounted in the history of the
Church. Afterwards he filled several other
missions, and August 28, 1844, was sent
from Nauvoo to preside over the British
mission, and returned early in 1846 just as
the first company of Saints were leaving for
the West.
	Of President Woodruff as a pioneer the
people are familiar, he was one of the first
company and assisted in various ways to
found this now flourishing State, not only
in colonizing and exploring, but in agricul-
tural and horticultural pursuits and was
prominent in public places in the city and
territory and became very eminent in Ec-
clesiastical positions. President Woodruff
labored some years as president of the St.
George Temple, was afterwards made presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles
and at the death of President John Taylor
succeeded him as President of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	President Woodruff was a most inde-
fatigable worker, never resting except
when he could toil no longer. His journal
and correspondence were faithfully kept up
to the very last, and must necessarily be of
the greatest interest to his family and of 
immense value as a matter of history.
	President Wilford Woodruff’s death took
place in the City of San Francisco where he
was spending a few weeks resting from the 
arduous labors of his office and calling, and
which he was enjoying to the utmost. His
wife was with him and also his first coun-

[Column 3]
selor in the presidency of the Church, and 
everything possible was done to save his
precious life that human skill and the best
nursing could accomplish.
	President Woodruff departed this life
after only a brief illness peacefully and ap-
parently without pain, sinking into a child-
like slumber from which he never woke,
but entered into that world of spirits of
which he so often spoke while here, and
where he anticipated so much joy and satis-
faction in meeting with those famous and
worthy men renowned in the Church, with
whom he had labored so many years in
promoting the interests of Zion and carry-
ing the Gospel to the nations of the earth.
There is every reason to believe his recep-
tion would be a glorious and magnificent
one.
INTERESTING INSTRUCTIONS.
	President Woodruff in a signed but un-
dated document wrote this concerning him-
self. 
	“Concerning My Death and Burial—I
wish to say that at my death I wish the
historian of the Church to publish a brief
account of my life, labors and travels, as an
Elder and an Apostle in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I wish
my body washed clean and clothed in clean
white linen, according to the order of the
Holy Priesthood, and put into a plain, de-
cent coffin, made of native wood, with
plenty of room. I do not wish any black
made use of about my coffin, or about the
vehicle that conveys my body to the grave. 
I do not wish my family or friends to wear
any badge of mourning for me at my funer-
al or afterwards, for if I am true and faith-
ful unto death there will be no necessity
for any one to mourn for me. I have no
directions to give concerning the services of
my funeral, any further than it would 
be pleasing to me for as many of the Presi-
dency and Twelve Apostles who may be
present to speak as may be thought wisdom.
Their speech will be to the living. If the
laws and customs of the spirit world will
permit, I should wish to attend my funeral
myself; but I shall be governed by the 
counsel I receive in the spirit world. I
wish a plain marble slab put at the head of
my grave, with my name and age, and that
I died in the faith of the Gospel of Christ
and in the fellowship of the Saints.
	(Signed) WILFORD WOODRUFF,
President of the Council of the Twelve
	Apostles.”
A WHITE FUNERAL.
	President Woodruff’s funeral may with
all propriety be designated a white funeral.
The services were held in the Tabernacle
in Salt Lake City, which had been beauti-
fully and most artistically draped in white
and prepared for the solemn occasion. The
appearance of the building was such as to 
impress with a reverential feeling every one
who had the privilege of attending the
ceremonies. The floral decorations were
profuse and magnificent and everything
harmonized with the spirit of peace that
brooded over the entire arrangements, and
pervaded the assembly and remained to
soothe the feelings of all, for the entire peo-
ple were bereaved of their great prophet
and leader, and though outwardly all were
calm, yet many hearts bowed in grief with
love and sorrow at the inevitable parting
with one so fondly cherished and beloved.
	An elegant life-sized painting of Presi-


[Column 1]
dent Woodruff—very natural as he appeared
a few years ago—hung in front of the
great organ against the stars and stripes of
the country he loved. Above the picture
were the words, “Being dead yet speaketh,”
the words were illuminated during musical
exercises; the white drapery fastooned about
the organ was in graceful folds and curves;
on each side of the organ were the figures
1847 and large bunches of sagebrush and.
sunflowers further up tops of pine trees; repre-
senting the valley were furze and brush, a
unique and realistic idea of Utah when he
who lay there sleeping entered the valley.
On the right and left were sheaves of
wheat and oats and more floral offerings, a
great bank in pure white. The stands were
draped in white cashmere tied with ribbon,
also the posts and at each end and at the top
of each a lovely bouquet. The folds of
cashmere tied by silk cords and tassels and
other appropriate draping and flowers were
almost beyond description; the coffin was
white and over it was laid a floral tapestry
—inscribed “In loving remembrance of the
children and grandchildren of Phebe Carter
Woodruff and Mary Jackson Woodruff.”
On top of the casket a bank of carnations
and lilies with the word “Father,”—a floral
crown from the Relief Society was placed at
the head, a large circle of cut roses from the
Y. M. M. I. A. with the motto in pure 
white blossoms, “The glory of God is in-
telligence,” a beautiful floral harp from the
choir, a basket of roses and asters from the
Primary Association and many other de-
signs by devoted friends, associations and
bodies of citizens. The entire effect of these
floral tributes was simplicity, harmony and
purity.
	The services commenced at 10:30 by an
organ rendition of a march composed for
the occasion by Prof. J. J. Daynes, and its
effect was most solemn and impressive. The
General Authorities of the Church were
seated in their order in the priesthood, the
opening hymn was given out by President
George Q. Cannon, “Thou dost not weep
to weep alone.” Apostle F. D. Richards
offered a fervent and eloquent prayer.
Elder George D. Pyper and the choir then 
sang the hymn “O my Father Thou that
dwellest.”
	President Joseph F. Smith was the first
speaker, and Mrs. Maggie C. Hull then
sang “The Beautiful City,” assisted by the
Tabernacle choir. Then President Lorenzo
 Snow, Apostle F. D. Richards and Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon each made remarks,
after which the choir sang President Wood-
ruff’s favorite hymn, “God moves in a
mysterious way,” and the closing prayer
was offered by Apostle Brigham Young.
	The funeral cortege was very long and
imposing, bands of music, mounted men
and the National Guard in uniform follow-
ing the train of carriages; thousands of peo-
ple stood on either side of the way to show
their respect for this distinguished man—
the men with heads uncovered, the little
children who loved and honored him united
with the throng of people old and young
who followed the procession to its final
resting place. The Dead March in Saul
and other funeral dirges were played and
the bands all discoursed sweet music by the
way and at the cemetery, where a great con-
course of people were already waiting. The
Harmony Glee Club sang exquisitely the
selection “Not Dead but Sleepeth,” and
Apostle F. M. Lyman offered the dedicatory
prayer.

[Column 2]
	And then the mortal body of this great
prophet, seer and revelator was consigned
to mother earth to await the morning of
the first resurrection when he will again
come forth clothed upon with an immortal
body, eternal and imperishable.
	May the grace of God soften the affliction
to the loving ones bereft, and in contem-
plating his glorious life and exalted character
may they find such consolation as shall,
lead them to follow his eminent example
of truth and righteousness, and thus to be
prepared to dwell with him in the great
hereafter throughout the endless ages of
eternity.
	“Lives of great men all remind us
		We can make our lives sublime,
	And, departing, leave behind us, 
		Footprints on the sands of time.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ORGANIZATION OF THE FIRST
PRESIDENCY.

To the Officers and Members of the Church
		of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:
	A special meeting of the Council of
the Apostles was held this morn-
ing, for the purpose of considering
important business of a financial character,
at which were present Lorenzo Snow,
Franklin D. Richards, George Q. Cannon,
Joseph F. Smith, Brigham Young, Francis
M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George
Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor,
Marriner W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund,
Matthias F. Cowley and Abraham O.
Woodruff. During the deliberations the
necessity of appointing a trustee-in-trust for
the Church became apparent in order that
its business might be properly transacted,
and while thus deliberating several of the
brethren expressed themselves to the effect
that the present was a most opportune time
to organize the First Presidency, and so
unanimous was this sentiment that a motion
was made to that effect and carried. Lor-
enzo Snow was then nominated and
sustained as President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with the
privilege of choosing his counselors. Presi-
dent Snow then selected, with the approval
of the Council, George Q. Cannon as his
first, and Joseph F. Smith as his second
counselor. President Snow was then
sustained as trustee-in trust for the Church.
The Council also sustained Franklin D.
Richards as President of the Twelve Apos-
tles. These several actions by the Council
were all unanimous.
			GEO. F. GIBBS, Secretary.
	Salt Lake City, Utah, Sep 13, 1898.


CONFERENCE NOTICE.

	The Sixty-ninth Semi-Annual Confer-
ence of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints will convene in the Tabernacle
on Thursday morning, October 6, 1898, at
10 o’clock a. m. Officers and members of
the Church are invited to be present.
			LORENZO SNOW,
			GEORGE Q. CANNON,
			JOS. F SMITH,
				First Presidency.

	The business meeting of the National
Woman’s Relief Society will be held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city on
Monday, October 3, at 2 p. m. A punctual
attendance members is very desirable.
		E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Assembly hall,
Salt Lake City, Wednesday, October 5,
1898, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. as usual. It is desirable that
each Stake organization of the Society
should be represented by the president or
an authorized representative. All members
of the Society and of the Church are most
cordially invited. The meetings of the con-
ference are open to all interested in chari-
table or philanthropic work.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
						President.
			JANE S. RICHARDS,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
						Counselors.
	E. B. WELLS,
			Secretary


GREAT EVENTS TRANSPIRING.

	The many events of national interest that
have crowded into this last summer make
one almost stand aghast at the very thought,
and when contemplating their significance
and far-reaching results are completely
overwhelming even to men and women ac-
customed to grasp great questions. Some
of these events are not only important to
this nation but are stirring the whole world.
	One very unlooked for proposition is that
from the Czar of Russia, an invitation to all
the countries that have representatives in
St. Petersburg to take part in the discus-
sion of methods to secure peace that would
be desirable to all peoples, and to check the
“progressive development of armaments.”
Surely the burdens and horrors of war are
terrible to all. The late war with Spain
has awakened a wide-spread sentiment in
favor of universal peace and the settlement
of all differences great and small by arbi-
tration or some pacific measures. It does
seem strange that the proposal for a cessa-
tion from all hostilities and wars between
the nations should come from Russia. The
whole world it is said applauds the Czar’s
purpose and hopes for good results. In
some quarters the fact is attributed to the
influence of the good and great Queen Vic-
toria, the Czar, however, is only the nephew
of the Princess of Wales and the husband
of the queen’s granddaughter. This is, of
course purely speculative. Other influences
may be exerting themselves in favor of a
peace movement, in fact a sentiment of that
kind has been widely promulgated by the
International Universal Peace Society,
which has been holding conferences abroad
in Europe for some years past.
	The many terrible occurrences on land
and on sea besides the war which has oc-
cupied more especially the attention of our
own country to the exclusion of other mat-
ters, speak to the world in unmistakable
terms of the fulfillment of prophecy in the
last dispensation of the fulness of times.
	The recent storm that has been so disas-
trous in the destruction of life on the coast
of Barbadoes and by which it is believed
50,000 people are rendered homeless,should
awaken thought among our women at least
to the importance of being prepared for
famine. Now when the harvest has been
the most bountiful for years is surely the
time to secure grain and store it up against
the day of need of which we have talked so
much and which is certainly coming. It is
well to be wise virgins and prepared for the


great events which are according to the
signs of the times now fast approaching.
	Earthquakes in divers places, and the sea
heaving beyond its bounds, and now we
hear of the great eruption of Mt. Vesuvius,
all these things fill men and women with
fear, according to the scriptures; only the
spirit of God in the hearts and His power
made manifest through His priesthood will
help even those who are trying to live ex-
emplary lives to stand the trials that seem
just upon the inhabitants of the world.
Rapidly the days are approaching when
only in Zion and Jerusalem will there be
safety.

	The November election is not far off and
it is certainly one of the most important
elections in the history of Utah. The elective
franchise given to the women of the State
ought to mean something more than a
mere plaything to be used or thrown aside,
it should stand for sacred privileges, for the
betterment of all classes, for reforms in all
places, for better conditions in all industrial
pursuits and the establishment, fostering
and maintenance of such industries as shall
give employment to all wage-earners, the
women and children as well as men. And
in connection with this the silk industry
which comes nearest to the home, and near-
est to the hearts of the women of this State
must not be forgotten. By all means the
women voters should acquaint themselves
with this subject and if they would they
would soon discern that the State through
its officers in its several departments should
understand that the women’s vote will be
given to the men and women who will
help lift the burden of taxation, and to those
who will introduce such measures as will
bring work for the idle and means into the
home, and whatever benefits the homes of
the people benefits the State. According to
the words of Brigham Young, the late
president and founder of Utah, there is no
industry so well calculated to bring wealth
to Utah as the silk industry, and there is
every facility here for its production. We
as a people are aware that there is heavy
indebtedness to be met, why not establish
this industry to assist in paying off the
debts? There are plenty of idle hands that
should be given work. Think of this sub-
ject, there have been object lessons given
you. The silk curtains made here for the
exhibition at the World’s Fair in 1893 now
on exhibition in Omaha, are said by con-
noisseurs to be fit to grace a Paris salon.
	The October first number of the “Ex-
ponent” will contain a number of articles on
the silk industry, its past, present and
future in Utah, from those practically en-
gaged in the work and from those who have
had experience in looking after its interests
connected with the association, and have
made a point of studying the subject thor-
oughly. Extra copies will be issued for dis-
tribution.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXECUTIVE MEETINGS IN OMAHA.
        
	NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	The circulars for the Executive Meetings
of the National Council of Women which is
to be held in Omaha have been received,
and a program mapped out shows the scope
of the plan of work to be done or to be at-
tempted. This is to be the last Executive
meeting before the Triennial of the Nation-
al Council which will be held in Washing-


ton, D. C., sometime in the spring of 1898.
The Omaha meetings will open on the 24th of October next and continue until the 29th,
inclusive. They are under the auspices of
the Woman’s Department of the Trans-
Mississippi and International Exposition.
	The readers of the “Exponent” will re-
memember that the National Council of
Women is the great organization of which
the National Woman’s Relief Society and
the Y. L. M.N.I.A. form a part. It is com-
posed of great National organizations and
represents hundreds of thousands of women.
The president of each of the organizations
forming the Council is vice-president in
the Council proper. Many important mat-
ters pertaining to women and to humanity
are to be discussed at these sessions, some
of them are of vital interest to our respec-
tive associations, and it would be very de-
sirable to have as large a number from
each society connected with the Council as
could possibly attend.
	(1.)   The first question open for discus-
sion is “Shall the next Triennial which is
to be convened in 1899 sit in two houses?”
	(2.)   Shall the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States, unite in recom-
mending an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the International Council of Wo-
men, the object of which shall be to secure
a more direct representation of the work
and interests of the organizations belonging
to the National Council in the International
Council?
	Both these matters are of great importance
and so are the Resolutions which have been
noticed in the preliminary program. One
introduced by Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett is:
	“Resolved, That there be a standing com-
mittee formed in the National Council of
Women of the United States to consider the
case of dependent and delinquent children.”
	This is to be discussed fifteen minutes.
The next one by Mrs. Anita Oliphant,
thirty minutes:
	“Resolved, That the National Council of
Women strenuously opposes the plan pur-
sued by many child-caring institutions of
breaking up families and separating mother
and child, thereby removing responsibili-
ties from those who ought to bear them
and putting additional burdens upon the
charitably disposed in a community; that
the National Council thinks it best to keep
mother and child together whenever possi-
ble; and when it is found that the environ-
ments cannot be elevated, the Council be-
lieves that children should be placed in
families and not institutions. ”


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.

	MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society quarterly conference
of the Malad Stake of Zion convened at
Portage August 13, 1898, President Lucin-
da Hoskins presiding. On the stand were
Stake President O. C. Hoskins and Coun-
selors J. M. McCrary and Wm. H. Gibbs
also Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City.
Meeting opened by singing “God moves in
a mysterious way.” Prayer was offered by
Counselor J. M. McCrary. Continued by
singing “Up, awake ye defenders of Zion.”
Roll called, minutes of last conference read
and accepted.
	Sister E. B. Wells of the General Board
being present asked to hear reports from
the presidents of the different branches.
President Jane H. Harris, President Eliza

[Column 2]
V. Ward then gave in good reports of the
Portage and Washakie associations.
	Sister Elizabeth Parkinson felt happy in
having Sister Wells visit us, knew we
would have a time of rejoicing together.
	Sister Rebecca Williams bore a faithful
testimony to the work of the Lord, exhort-
ing the sisters to be prayerful and place
their trust in the Lord.
	Sister E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City,
felt happy to meet with the brethren and
sisters here in the Relief Society conference
of Malad Stake. Said ‘‘The sisters of the
Relief Society are advancing in knowledge.
We must be active workers if we wish the
Lord to assist us,and unless we are obedient
to those placed over us we cannot gain an
exaltation in the kingdom of our Father.”
Spoke on the subject of silk culture and of
some of the teachings of the Prophet Joseph
to the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Said the
children should assist their mothers, felt
that the sisters were truly blest here in
having the Stake presidency meet with
them, gave much good instruction on
many different subjects.
	President Lucinda Hoskins adjourned
the conference until 2 p. m. Singing, Dox-
ology. Benediction by John Thornton. 
	Afternoon session opened by the choir
singing “O ye mountains high.” Prayer
by Bishop Enoch Harris. Singing “We
thank Thee O, God for a prophet.”
	President Lucinda Hoskins gave counsel
to the Relief Society in regard to their
duties, urged them to be persevering, take
care of the poor, comfort the sick and heed
the commandments of our Father in heaven.
She had visited a number of branches
around the Stake and found the sisters all
striving to do their duty.
	The Woodruff branch was then reported
by Counselor Margaret Davis as being in
good working order. Sister Elvira Harrison
reported the St. John’s branch. “The sisters
are always willing to do anything they are
called upon to do by those placed over
them.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said that by being or-
ganized in the Relief Society we become
better acquainted and learn to love each
other better with the love the Gospel
brings. Spoke of the necessity of storing
grain, said this work was established by
the direct counsel of the Prophet Brigham
Young. We should have grain on hand
for a time of need. “Teach your children 
the law of tithing, strive to live in all the
ways of the Lord and pay an honest tithing
ourselves.” Spoke on many interesting
subjects.
	Sister Eliza A. Hall bore testimony to
the remarks made by the brethren and sis-
ters and to the divinity of the Gospel.
	President O. C. Hoskins, Counselor J.
M. McCrary, and Counselor Wm. H
Gibbs made encouraging remarks, exhort-
ing the sisters to be diligent in performing
all their duties in the ReliefSociety.
	The conference adjourned for three
months. Meeting closed by singing “May
we who know the joyful sound.” Bene-
diction pronounced by J. Mansfield.
	Another branch in our Relief Society was
organized in Malad Stake on July 10, 1898.
It is also a new ward in this Stake, the
name is Pleasant View, Oneida Co., Idaho.
The following are names of officers: Lucy
E. Wright, president; Sarah W Jones
and Emeline E. Thomas, counselors; Jane
M. Evans, secretary; Caroline Jones,
treasurer.
		ELIZA A. HALL, Sec.


[Column 1]

		SALT LAKE STAKE.
   	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of the Salt Lake Stake of
Zion held in the Assembly Hall, Saturday,
September 3, 1898. Present on the stand
were President M. Isabella Horne and her
counselors, Annie T. Hyde and Clara C.
Cannon; Mrs. B. W. Smith, of the General
Board; Mrs. M. W. Wilcox and Mrs. L. D.
Alder of Stake Board; Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Stake president of the Y. L. M. I. A.; Mrs.
E. J. Stevenson and Mrs. E. L. Webb.
	Opened by singing “When first the
glorious light of truth.” Prayer by Sister
E. L. Webb. Continued by singing
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.” Roll call showing a fair repre-
sentation of both city and county wards.
Minutes of morning session of last confer-
ence read and accepted, also the quarterly
report of the Salt Lake Stake and the
treasurer’s report. The resignation of Sis-
ter Margaret Y. Taylor as Stake secretary
was read and accepted.
	President Horne stated that it was with
many regrets that she accepted the resigna-
tion of Sister Taylor. “We would that she
might rise above her sorrows and continue
to labor with us; we would that our sym-
pathy could help her and aid her in her
great trial, for we are loathe to give her up.
But she has so desired and she must be the
judge. We have one or two sisters in our
mind for this responsible office, and before
next conference we hope to have another
secretary. Sister Alder has kindly consented
to act as secretary today.”
	On motion of Counselor Annie T.Hyde a
vote of thanks was tendered to Sister Mar-
garet Y. Taylor for her efficient labors
while secretary of the Stake.
	President Horne further said: “Sisters in
the whirl of earthly pleasures are we for-
geting God and our religion? Eighteen
branches not reported, and now in this in-
complete form our report must go in to the
Stake authorities. It is unfair to those who
are laboring faithfully to receive no credit
in the report of Relief Society workers.
We must not let earthly cares interfere with
the discharge of our duties. Do not treat
our Society and our officers with indiffer-
ence. At our late excursion to the lake did
not our honored President Woodruff say we
were almost as old as the Church, being
the first organization formed after the
Church was established? And did he not
encourage us in our labors which our God
appointed? Shall we then be slothful ser-
vants? Presidents stir up the Society to
the remembrance of their duties. I with
you sisters feel sad at the loss our Church
has sustained, yet not sad for he has gone
full of years and good works. He was
great and grand yet every one of the people,
like the Prophet Joseph Smith, he was
Brother Woodruff to all. When the proph-
et passed away we were without a leader,
but we soon found that God was at the
head. The Twelve lead the Church and
the power was in their hands then as now.”
	A change was made regarding the presi-
dents of branches making verbal reports at
the conferences, inasmuch as many com-
plained that they could not hear them, in
future the presidents were requested to add
on the blanks anything they wished to
bring before the conference, then it could
be read, for it was very unpleasant to sit in
a meeting and not hear anything. Presi-
dent Horne urged the sisters to heed the

[Column 2]
still small voice that whispers to us and
warns us of danger.
	Counselor B. W. Smith said she felt sad
yet glad for Brother Woodruff, that he had
passed away in peace although away from
the people whom he loved. “I saw him
and talked with him only a few days before
he went away and he said he felt so well,
that his death was a shock to me. I feel
alone now for he and I were the only ones
left who received their endowments in the
the days of Joseph the Prophet. We shall
meet the Prophet Joseph again some day,
and may we not be ashamed, having faith-
fully performed our duties.” Sister Smith
also spoke of her Temple work and ex-
pressed a desire to be faithful to the end of
her days.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said, “May we re-
member the constant exhortations of Presi-
dent Woodruff especially of late, to get the
Spirit of the Lord and keep it. His mind
was so pure and without guile. Remember
his testimonies to us, how he had been pre-
served by heeding the whisperings of the
still small voice, of the great work he had
accomplished and how many had been
brought into the Church through his in-
strumentality.” Closed by urging the
younger sisters to identify themselves with
the Relief Society, making many excellent
remarks.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde gave instructions
to the sisters saying, “When you attend
conference bring a pencil and paper to note
down anything that would be of benefit for
your Society, then read off the items at
your next meeting. Be sure and get the
blanks for your reports then be careful to
make your averages correctly and evenly
balance up. Then be sure and have your
spiritual meetings as well as your disburse-
ment meetings.” Also spoke of the young-
er sisters belonging to and laboring with
the Relief Society to lighten the labors of
the older sisters.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said, “I realize
that we have had much valuable instruction
given here today from President Horne and
others. I feel that I have need to be more
diligent in carrying out counsel. To get
the Spirit of the Lord and keep it would be
such a blessing to us.” Made other in-
structive remarks.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock p. m.
Singing “When shall we all meet again.”
Benediction by Sister M. W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.
Opened by singing “Guide us O, Thou
Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Sister E. J.
Stevenson. Continued by singing “Weep,
weep not for me Zion.” Minutes of after-
noon session of last conference read and ac-
cepted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson was the first speak-
er, earnestly urging the sisters to a renewed
diligence in serving God and keeping His
commandments.
	Sister E. L. Webb followed giving much
motherly counsel and speaking of the words
and testimonies of our loved leader, Presi-
dent Woodruff. Sister Lillie T. Freeze
made an encouraging address to the young
sisters and paid a loving tribute to the
labors of the aged sisters.
	President E. S. Taylor of the General
Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. followed, testi-
fying of the great latter-day work, its ad-
vancement and duties pertaining thereto;
also dwelt at length on the efficacy of
prayer.
	Sister L. D. Alder was next called upon,

[Column 3]
speaking of the humble, beautiful life of
President Woodruff, the magnitude of the
labor he had performed and his simplicity
of manner, though called to such a high
and holy position. Expressed a desire that
the Saints might all be faithful unto death
as he had been.
	Sister Agnes Cutler, president of the East
Jordan Relief Society, testified that the
spirit of the Lord was with us, and spoke of
the prophecy of Sister Eliza R.Snow to her,
that her missisn was to bless the sick and
the sorrowful.
	President Horne said, “Our conference
has been blessed with the spirit of God. We
are engaged in building up the kingdom,
being organized for that purpose. Gave
some valuable instruction to the youth.
“Youth is the time to lay a good strong
foundation to build our after life upon. My
soul rejoices at the gifts and blessings of
the Gospel. The Gospel is so beautiful
and yet so simple. Are we ready to sus-
tain those whom God calls to lead us, or do
we want to steady the Ark? Do we love
our Father in heaven, and are we willing
to serve Him?” President Horne gave in-
structions regarding the storing of grain
now that God had given us another boun-
teous harvest, urging the sisters to pur-
chase the grain while it was cheap, thus
being true to the mission given to us by
President Brigham Young. “Do not think
the war is over because we have a little
lull, verily it is not over.” Urged the Re-
lief Society presidents to visit with the
teachers and get out those who are neglect-
ful of their meetings, that we may have a
revival in Relief Society work. Spoke of
the duties of parents and children and
made other loving remarks to the sisters.
Gave instructions to the secretaries and
treasurers, telling them to meet together
and make out their reports that they might
be accurate. Spoke of the nursing class,
said those who had signed their names to
aid in nursing the sick poor in remuneration
for their education were doing finely. Presi-
dent Horne poured out her heart in bless-
ings upon the sisters, blessing them in their
basket and store and all their belongings
and loved ones.
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Thus closed the Relief Society
conference. The Spirit of the Lord was
poured out in abundance. A spirit of quiet
and peace pervaded each meeting and testi-
fying to the truth of the words of the speak-
ers. Closed by singing “How firm a
foundation.” Benediction Sister B. W.
Smith.
			LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	JULIA A. GIBBS.
	Sister Julia A. Gibbs departed this life August
22, 1898, after a short illness of two days. She
died as she had lived a faithful Latter-day Saint
and loved by all who knew her. She was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society of Portage since its first
organization, holding the office of first counselor
for twenty-one years. She was full of charity
and a worker that will be missed by the sick and
the poor who had learned to love her. She
leaves six children and a host of grandchildren to
mourn her loss. As a socie[-]y we deeply sympa-
thize with her family, and feel to commend them
to our Heavenly Father who alone can comfort
them.
	E. A. H.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the [-]ord, yea
from henceforth they rest from their labors and
th[-]ir works do follow them.”


MARY ANN WALLACE WOODWARD.

	On the 14th of May 1898, after a lingering and
painful illness, this our beloved sister passed the
bourne whence none return. The cause of her
death was pneumonia complicated with disease
of the heart.
	Sister Woodward was the daughter of Neverson
Grant Wallace and his wife, Eleanor Carns. She
was born in Erie Co. Penn., on the 17th of Nov-
ember, 1841. Her mother died when she was
quite young. She came to Utah in 1856 with her
father, brother and her uncle and his family, in
Abraham O. Smoot’s company. She was bap-
tized in the winter of 1856, during the Reforma-
tion. On March 27, 1857, she was married to
Elder George Woodward and came with him to
Dixie at President Young’s call in 1861. She
carded and spun a five pound bunch of cotton
yarn and took to the fair in Salt Lake City in 1863,
probably the first raised in Utah. When the Re-
lief Society was organized in 2nd ward, she was
appointed a counselor to the president, Margaret
Moody. She was called to labor in the ordinances
of the St. George Temple, March 1, 1877, a posi-
tion she has occupied ever since up to the time of
her death. For many years she has occupied the
responsible position of treasurer of the Relief
Society of this Stake and has filled it with honor
and ability. In her death we realize that we have
lost a staunch friend, a faithful Saint, and one
whose usefulness and integrity cannot be gain-
said. Yet we rejoice that she is relieved from
suffering, and only hope that when our turn
comes we may be as well prepared.

	MARY LUND JUDD.

	It becomes our painful and sorrowful duty to
chronicle the sudden and seemingly untimely end-
ing of a happy, busy and useful life, that of our
dearly loved sister and friend, Mollie Judd.
	On the 8th of July, 1898, after an illness as sud-
den, short and profound as it was unexpected,
she passed to the great Beyond and the haunts
that once knew her now know her no more. The
hearts which were made glad by her loving and
dutiful ministrations are now sad and desolate,
missing the accustomed presence, notwithstand-
ing all are trying to say ‘‘Thy will be done.”
	The existing cause of death was angina pectoris,
superinduced by over-exertion and a condition of
fatty degeneration of the heart.
	Mollie was the daughter of Wilson and Eliza
Brace Lund who emigrated from England to
America in 1842, and married in Nauvoo during
the same year. In 1850 they joined the Saints in
Utah The subject of this sketch was born in
Salt Lake City, Dec. 7, 1860, and removed with
her parents to St. George the same year. During
her girlhood she was a teacher in the public
schools. On June 21, 1884, she was married to
Elder Thomas Judd in the St. George Temple.
	For a number of years in common with many
of her sisters she moved about from place to
place seeking refuge from the stern rigor of the
laws which had been formed purposely for such
as she was, even going as far as England on a
protracted visit. Of late years she has lived in
St. George filling up the measure of each day in
usefulness, striving to do good in any and every
available way. 
	For six years she has presided over the Y. L.
M. I. A. of St. George, and that association has
made wonderful progress during that time. She
was also second counselor in the Stake Relief
Society, and a teacher in the Primary Associa-
tion and in the Sunday School.
	Funeral services were held on Monday, July 10,
at 10 a. m. in the Tabernacle. The decorations
were tasteful and appropriate. Everybody who
possibly could came out to do honor to the occa-
sion. An impressive feature was the Y L. M. I
A. who attended en masse dressed in white
and with beautiful bouquets which they laid upon
the newly made grave, making of it a mound of
lovely bloom
	The music was nicely rendered and all passed
off peacefully and revere[-]tly, much to the satis-
faction of all present, and especially to the com-
fort of the mourners. 
	Sister Mollie leaves a husband, a young son,
an aged mother, brothers sisters and many rela-
tives and friends to mourn her death May her
rest be sweet and the spirit of God comfort the
bereaved, than whom few feel more so than her
loving friends and associates
		JULIA A. PACE, Cor Sec.
		ANN C. WOODBURY, Pres.
		EMMA MORRIS, Counselor.
	St. George Stake R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[written on a shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[on either side of the logo]
SWIFT THE
AS EAGLE

	Denver is one day nearer Chicago to-day than
it was yesterday. This is the actual practical
effect of the fast mail trains inaugurated by the
North-Western and Union Pacific.—Chicago
Times Herald, Feb. 8, 1898.
“The Chicago Special”
		Leaves Denver, 	4:30 p m today.
		Arrives Omaha,	7:00 a m tomorrow.
		Arrives Chicago,	8:45 p m tomorrow.
	To the Chicago, Union Pacific and North-
western belongs the credit of inaugurating the
new fast train service between Denver and
Chicago.
	This new train is a triumph of modern rail-
roading. It consists of six magnificent cars:
Buffet, smoking and library car, with barber
shop, etc. Two splendid palace sleeping cars.
Reclining chair car. Dining car, meals a la 
carte. Baggage car.
	This is the only train between Denver and
Chicago having the luxurious
. . . . . . . . Buffet, Smoking and Library Cars.
	Westbound, “The Colorado Special” leaves
Chicago 10:00 a m, arrives Omaha 11:55 p m, to-
day, and Denver 1:30 p m, tomorrow.

Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her winter class in
Obstetrics and Nursing, on Monday,
Oct. 10th. Any one wishing to com-
municate with Dr. Roberts, address
75 North State Street.
	Telephone 548 D.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s School
	The winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1898, at her office Constitution
building, Main Street, with greatly
improved facilities for instruction in
this important study. For full par-
ticulars please address
	ELLIS R. SHIPP. M. D.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

To the Ladies:
	We have much pleasure in invit-
ing you to attend our fall millinery
opening which will take place Sep-
tember 26th and 27th.
	Our French patterns are more
beautiful than ever, and besides, we
have a great variety of lovely trim-
med hats, ranging in price from
$3.00 to $8.00.
	We earnestly solicit the favor of
a trial. Ladies coming for Confer-
ence will find it one of the special
attractions.
Woman’s Co-op Committee,
	M. FRANCIS, Manager.
53 W. First South, Salt Lake City.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD

(In Effect July 17, 1898.

	Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:

ARRIVE.
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City
	and Ogden . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 3 10 p m 
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco, Ogden and intermed-
	iate points . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . 8 55 a m 
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. . . . 7 15 p m 
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver and Ogden . . 3 10 a m
*From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate points . . . . . 6 20 p m 
Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach . . . . . . . 4 00 p m 

DEPART.
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City, St. Louis, Ogden and
	Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 00 a m 
For San Francisco, Ogden, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points. . . . 8 05 a m 
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha, St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 25 p m 
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 45 p m 
*For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City, 
	Provo, Nephi, Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points . . . . 7 30 a m
Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus . . . . . . . . . . . 7 45 a m 
*Trains south of Juab run daily except
Sunday.
†Daily except Sunday.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL,
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sale
to all parts of the world.
	Pullman Palace Car ticket office.
			D. E. BURLEY
		Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent.
S. W. ECCLES,
	General Traffic Manager.
W. H. BANCROFT,
	Vice-President and Gen. Manager


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1 & 15, 1898.	NOS. 9 & 10.


CONTENTS:
	The Silk Industry. U. W. P. C.—Ruth M. Fox, 
Act. Sec. The Empress of Austria—Helen V.
Kimba[-]l. The Marthas and Marys—Dilbhur. Re-
lief Society Reports.   In Memoriam Dedication 
of a Granary at Mill Creek—Frances H. Hanson. 
Stand by American Principles—May Wright Se-
wall.   Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting—Lydia D.
Alder, Act. Sec.    Notes and News.
	Editorial:—The General Conference. An-
nouncement. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:- "Only a Girl”—A. E. N. R. Red
Tape—Se[-]ected. Evolution—Ruby Lamont.


[Column 1]
	ONLY A GIRL. 

	BY MRS. A. E. N. R. 
Close the door carefully, muffle the tread, 
Drop the white curtains ’round the white bed; 
A pale mother’s sleeping, aye give her rest, 
See the fresh rosebud upon her white breast. 
She has struggled with pain, she has wrestled 
	with death;
Her’s is the victory! let not a breath 
Awaken her slumber, hark! there's a tread, 
Nearer and nearer approaching the bed;
Manly his bea[-]ing—yea noble his mien; 
Lowly he bends the fair sleepers between;
Lifts the frail floweret with womanly care, 
Breathlessly gazing, his lips part in prayer! 
No! there’s a chill in the a[-]bient air, 
Each word falls distinctly and painfully slow, 
Curdling and freezing the blood in its flow;
“Its only a girl ?”—a hush as of death 
For a moment suspended each listener’s breath;
n the pause—the pale sleeper uplifted her eyes—
“I must have been dreaming,” she said with
	surprise,
“I thought that a cold hand of iron touched my
	heart,
While hard, cruel words like a poisonous dart, 
Pierced my soul to the core; I sprang for my
	babe!
‘Its only a girl!’ were the words I heard said, 
And Elmer! Oh Elmer! that voice was like thine;
That hand—angels spare me!—once warmly
	clasped mine, 
As you called me more precious than ruby or
	pearl,
And yet, it was when I was only a girl! 
If a girl is thus dear, then the mother and wife 
To every true man is as dear as his life!”
She clasped her cold hands o’er her hot throbbing
	brow—
The blood had all rushed to that citadel now;
Then her words, quick and scathing, burned into 
	the soul!
Emotion swayed reason beyond her control—
“Its only a girl!”—O man in thy strength, 
Know that God measures souls by their depth 
	not their length; 
The streamlet may wind over miles of fair earth, 
Yet bear on its bosom [-]o proud ship of worth; 
A man may hold kingdoms, and nations control; 
What is that to the birth of one beautiful soul? 
The germ in your strong arms, unfolded with
	care,
May, like Harriet Hosmer or Rosa Bonheur, 
Move the world by their art, or lull it to rest 
With poesy's magic, and balm of the blest. 
The mission of motherhood! Man do you dare 
With sneers stain the sa[-]ctum sanctorum of 
	prayer? 

[Column 2]
This Holy of Holies—this mightiest dower? 
Dare to scoff at the sex in which lies this power?
Ah, where were the Monarch, the Duke and the
	Earl,
Had not each a mother—once "only a girl!”
And whence came thy being, and all the proud
	van 
You marshalled in battle—yes every man? 
The magnet that led them through storm and 
	through strife, 
Was a mother, a sister, a sweetheart, or wife, 
Each closely enshrined in his heart like a pearl;
And yet each fair image was “only a girl!”
It was only a girl that Deity chose
To incarnate the Christ; the story in prose 
Sweeps down through the ages like stars through 
	the night, 
To illumine the world with its God given light. 
It was only frail woman that wept at the tomb, 
And talked with the angels when Jesus had gone;
And woman that bore the glad tidings to man 
That Christ, the Beloved, had risen again. 
Go to the reeking battlefields of yore
And read the records writ in human gore, 
Of woman’s valor, mercy, courage, love, 
And point me to one name that’s carved above 
The name of woman in such deeds as these, 
And I will pray to heaven on bended knees, 
That every child henceforth may be a boy;
That every father’s heart may leap with joy. 
But ere in scorn you breath “only a girl!”
Look, lest you cast aside the greater pearl.
		—Selected.


[Column 1]
	THE SILK INDUSTRY.

	SPRINGVILLE LETTER.

	Ages have demonstrated that immense
wealth has been produced by sericulture.
The Chinese and Japanese date back thou-
sands of years the existence of this wonder-
ful industry which has furnished the
most costly and ornamental clothing the
world has ever worn, even royalty itself
ows its richness of attire, its costliest adorn-
ment to a worm so forbidding to some of
our more refined ladies, as to become repul-
sive to the sight, to say nothing of the
touch. And yet this worm is the producer
of all the silk in the world.
	Only imagine for a single moment the
destruction of this insect, its removal from
earth forever, and what a loss to the attire
of the world this would be. No more silk
dresses, no ribbons, silk necktie or pocket-
handkerchief. Countless millions of wealth
would be cut off and the occupation of
millions of workers. Now I hope to arouse
an interest in every reader of the “Expon-
ent” for this great industry, by submitting
figures and facts.
	Presuming upon the number of forty
thousand families in Utah and that each
family raises only twenty pounds of cocoons.
The bounty alone on this would be $5.00 to
each family, which means $200,000 to the
State in bounty alone; but let us carry these
figures further. Twenty pounds of cocoons
would produce four pounds of reeled silk,
which at four dollars a pound means
$21.00 to each family, $840,000 to
the State. But if each family should
produce forty pounds, which can be done

[Column 2]
in every house that has a boy ten years old
to gather the leaves, this would give the
sum of $1,680,000 yearly.
	I trust this statement will appeal so
strongly to all that they will not allow this
golden opportunity to pass unheeded and
thus prevent employment to hundreds of
our sons and daughters. We have quality,
what we want is quantity to encourage
capital to establish mills.
	President Young predicted that this
would yet become one of the greatest in-
dustries of the country, and the experience
of the present year has proven the truth of
his words.
	Not only so, but once engaged in good
earnest it becomes fascinating, as I have
learned from my own experience, having
produced in my own house thirty-seven and
a half pounds of cocoons this season, which
netted us $9.30 in bounty alone.
	There were only two of us to do the
housework and the additional labor of at-
tending the worms was without hired help.
	I wish to add a caution about building
scaffolding against a wall. Build out so
that you can pass around, and be sure to
commence to hatch the eggs not later than
the last week in April. Our bounty to six
families in Springville this season was
$40.00.
	For further information apply to Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine, secretary of the Silk
Commission, also the pamphlet of the com-
mission. These are reliable guides. All
books and eggs are gratis. Every county
raising one hundred pounds of cocoons is
entitled to a person to teach them how to
reel silk.
			ELIZABETH PACKARD.

		ST. GEORGE LETTER.

	A few words in regard to the silk indus-
try of this country might be of interest to
your readers. During the early part of
this year Miss Horrocks of Salt Lake City,
under the direction of the Utah Silk Com-
misson, taught fifteen married and twenty-
one unmarried ladies who took a course in
reeling the silk upon the half dozen Japan-
ese reels recently purchased from Japan.
The most of them were delighted with the
work and made rapid progress.
	Last spring there were twenty-six fami-
lies engaged in silk culture in the county.
The product so far reported amounts to
three hundred and sixty-four pounds of
cocoons. These when reeled will make
about ninety pounds of reeled silk.
A good reeler can reel this silk at the rate
of half a pound per day. Within the last
year we have had about ninety yards of
silk woven; it was not of the best quality
owing to the lack of experienced weavers,
we are pleased to say, however, that we
have now secured the services of a skillful
weaver, and we hope in the near future to
have some silk that we can put before the
market.
	There are a great many mulberry trees
in St. George, and in most of the Dixie set-
tlements there are a great many; they make
rapid growth for shade trees. In
St. George Miss Horrocks estimated


[Column 1]
there was enough to feed the worms to
make a thousand pounds of cocoons, and
every year there will be a great increase in
the number set out, owing to the increase
in the water supply since we have the
cottonwood water in town. It is not much
trouble to raise the trees when you can
keep them watered.
	There are many men looking toward the
silk industry as a source of revenue and
with that end in view they expect to plant
mulberries by the acre, and in talking with
influential men on this subject they ex-
press a desire to know what to do to ad-
vance it the most. Of course the right
kind of mulberry tree is the first considera-
tion. There has been an increased interest
in the work since we have used the Japa-
nese reels, and also since we have had silk
woven. Of course we have had many diffi-
culties to contend with, but in beginning
on a small scale and getting the silk into
cloth it showed the people that we meant
business and they can see what can be ac-
complished with a little capital. Expert
reelers must be the first consideration in es-
tablishing factories. Now we have quite a
quantity of reeled silk on hand and a large
number of good reelers. All they want is
encouragement. They ask: “What will we
do with the silk when we get it reeled?”
If we had the necessary means to buy the
reeled silk from those who have produced it,
it would encourage them to push the work.
There is not much encouragement to work
unless they can get such pay as they can
use, for they need it. There are not many
who can afford to reel it and lay it away.
	A young lady from one of the settlements
sent me three quarters of a pound of reeled
silk, very beautiful, and wanted to sell it.
We have such chances as this one often.
We give this industry all the encourage-
ment we can and intend to while life lasts,
or until we see it the blessing and pride of
this country.
			ANN C. WOODBURY.
THE SILK INDUSTRY.
	So much has been said on this subject
that when requested to write I thought,
“What more can I add to what has already
been said and written?” Still if I can add
one word of encouragement to lead our
young people to see the value of this in-
dustry I cheerfully do so.
	How many times I have been asked the
question, “Does it pay to raise silk?” and
I always answer, “Yes, it certainly does.”
But there are some things to be remembered.
First of all we must have mulberry trees, it
is just as necessary that we should have
trees to raise silk, as it is that we should
have land to raise grain; and, by the way,
this fall or next spring will be a good time
to plant trees, and let every one make it a
special point to plant several and in this
way a great deal would be done towards
advancing the cause of the silk industry.
	The Pioneer Nursery Company will be
glad to furnish mulberry trees from five to
fifteen feet high at prices from ten to thirty
cents each.
	After our trees have grown large enough,
which will be about three years, let each
one get right to work. Get just enough
eggs so that the worms can be well fed and
cared for, and in a short time you will be
rewarded by seeing them spin you a nice
lot of beautiful cocoons. The next step is
the reeling; this has been a great drawback
in the past, and how many days have

[Column 2]
spent in trying to get some one to reel my
silk and at last have it rendered unfit for
first class silk. But this is now all over-
come; through the earnest efforts of the Silk
Commission we are now enabled to obtain
reels and the law provides for a person to
teach the reeling at the expense of the State.
There is also bounty of twenty-five cents
on each pound of cocoons raised, which has
been provided by law and ought to arouse
an interest in silk culture.
	We have people in this State who under-
stand the different branches of this indus-
try, such as dyeing, cleansing etc., and as
soon as the demand is sufficient we hope
machinery will be obtained to make the
work lighter
	And now we do hope that those men and
women who are elected to represent us both
in Washington and in the State, whatever
their political belief, will appreciate the
efforts that have been made in this direction
and will give us aid, not only by their in-
fluence but will seek to have us helped in a
financial way. Let each one, no matter
what his or her political belief, seek to get
good men and women in office, who will
work to build up this important branch of
work and other home industries in the
State.
	Let me urge the mothers and daughters
to see that every mulberry tree in the State
is utilized in producing silk. Even now
we can produce a quantity and quality that
is surprising. Speaking of the latter, I
wish every one could see the difference in
the imported silk and our own. I had the
privilege recently of seeing pieces of the
imported and the homemade silk compared,
and really the imported hardly looked like
silk in comparison to our own homemade.
	Let us be more united in our efforts to
develop this industry, for it will be the
little that each one does that will make up
the whole.
			MARIA ZUNDELL.
SILK CULTURE PAST AND PRESENT IN
SANPETE.
	Since Utah has become a state the sub-
ject of home industry and especially seri-
culture has received more attention than
for some years previous, and with judicious
protection and encouragement there is no
good reason why it should not become a
source of wealth and independence to the
people of these mountain valleys.
	Owing to advanced age and infirmities I
am unable to take an active part in the
further development of this important in-
dustry, but if my experience in the past in
this line will be of any benefit to the young-
er generation I shall feel that I am not liv-
ing in vain.
	From my early childhood I have been
perfectly familiar with this business. In
my native state (Connecticut) the scanty
income which the farmers were enabled to
wring from the worn out soil was largely
supplemented by the proceeds of a small
cocoonery which nearly every family main-
tained in their own house. An unused,
vacant, airy chamber furnishing the neces-
sary accomodation for the worms with very
little expense, and very much more profit
than where large sums have been invested
in building expensive structures for this
purpose. So far as my experience goes
both in New England and Illinois, large
cocooneries have invariably resulted in loss
and failure.
	In the year 1873 I again engaged in silk

[Column 3]
culture at my home in Manti as an experi-
ment, and my success far excelled my anti-
cipations. I have demonstrated to my en-
tire satisfaction that the climate and atmos-
phere of Utah is far more favorable to the
health and development of the silk worm
than that of the eastern states. The dis-
ease superinduced by the continuous wet
weather does not exist in our dry climate,
and in fact the only obstacle in the way of
complete success is the present lack of suf-
ficient mulberry trees which can be easily
remedied wherever water is available. There
should be no lack of energy in this direc-
tion as an initial step in accomplishing
great results. But in this as in every other
undertaking patience and perseverance are
necessary to success. The silk worm sea-
son comes during the summer vacation
of the schools, thus giving the children
time and opportunity to pick the leaves and
assist in caring for the worms. If they are
familiar with them from infancy as I was
they do not feel the aversion toward them
that many of our young ladies manifest at
present. Also give the little ones to under-
stand that diligence on their part will be re-
warded when the silk is sold.
	In the year 1876 Sister E. R. Snow or-
ganized a silk association in Manti for San-
pete county, and for several years a con-
siderable amount of silk was produced in
Manti by Sister Maria Weibye and myself,
also in Ephraim by a Sister Peterson and
in Gunnison by Sister Helena Madsen.
All these sisters are deserving of much
credit for their pioneer labors in behalf of
silk culture. Sister Elizabeth Higgs has
also been indefatigable in her labors as silk
agent, canvassing the town and urging up-
on the sisters the immediate necessity of
planting mulberry trees.
	In one season I made sufficient silk for a
dress but it was unfortunately spoiled in
the weaving. Two years ago my grand-
daughter raised sufficient cocoons to obtain
$2.25 bounty. She also sold them to Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine for the Omaha Exposi-
tion. She is a teacher in the public schools
but she thinks she can raise silk during her
summer vacation. I hope that many more
young ladies may feel impressed to go and
do likewise. I feel that there is a great
future for this State if our people will only
be wise in their day and generation, and by
wise legislation and individual effort care-
fully utilize the elements within our reach,
which will tend to make us a prosperous
and independent people.
	Let us hope that our new legislature
will give this important subject the atten-
tion it deserves during the coming session.
Let our sisters realize that the silk indus-
try will open a new field of occupation for
their children, which will be the means of
adding many comforts to the homes of those
who are in straightened circumstances if
they avail themselves of the opportunities
offered. Let our young ladies see to it that
their adornment shall be the work of their
own hands and not the products of Babylon.
	And above all let us realize the purpose
for which we have come to this promised
land, and strive diligently to become the
self-sustaining people the Lord designs us
to be.
		REBECCA WAREHAM.
ENCOURAGING SILK CULTURE.
	One of the first acts of the legislature of
Utah after Statehood had been declared, was
the passing of a bill to encourage silk cul-


[Column 1]
ture in the new state. No act could have
been more commendable. In doing this
those who are the leaders of thought, de-
clared their interest in the welfare of the
people at large. They showed their belief
in a great principle that it is the duty of
the State to take the responsibility of en-
couraging industry, of assisting the isolated
and dependent to united action which shall
result to the good of all. The personnel of
the commission appointed by Governor
Wells to carry out the idea of the act of the
legislature were a guarantee that the inten-
tion of the bill would be faithfully adhered
to. Mrs. Zina D. H Young, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. M. A. Caine and two others,
one in St. George and one in Springville,
should be forever held in grateful remem-
brance by the people of Utah for the con-
scientious way in which they have executed
their trust. It is gratifying to note the
great increase of interest in the silk culture
in Utah from year to year since the silk
bill was passed. The increase of one hun-
dred dollars in bounties this last year
means a great increase in production. May
another year bring still greater increase.
	If the women of the State generally
will give as much time and labor to raising
cocoons as the women of the Silk Commis-
sion have given to the necessary administra-
tive work connected with the distribution of
eggs and testing the cocoons, in a few
years the silk industry will be on the road
to permanent establishment.
	It is interesting to go back in history
over the story of the growth of the produc-
tion of silk fabrics.
	The process of rearing the worms, reel-
ing the thread and weaving the cloth is
said to have been discovered in China, 2600
B. C. The secret of silk culture was
guarded most jealously by the Chinese. It
was death to reveal the process to a foreign-
er, and so perfectly was the will of the
government in this matter carried out, that
it was not until 555 A. D., that the world
east of China had any knowledge of the
precious art. At that time two Mesbian
monks brought silk worm eggs concealed
in their staves to the Emperor Justinian at
Constantinople. Silk culture immediately
became established in Europe.
	France has become the greatest silk pro-
ducing country because there the govern-
ment has done most to foster and protect
the industry. At one time silk workers
were exempt from taxation and every in-
ducement was offered to engage in the pro- 
duction of cocoons. The wisdom of this
national policy in France has been proved
by the result. At the present time in
France silk is manufactured at the value of
one hundred and twenty million francs an-
nually, and from 800,000 to 1,000,000 oper-
ators are employed. It is hardly too much
to say that the silk industry in France
makes the difference in that country be-
tween prosperity and the want of it.
	Efforts in America to establish silk cul-
ture have been numerous but spasmodic.
Georgia was established as a silk colony, but
the vicissitudes of those early colonists are
sufficient explanation of the failure of the
project. Before the war of the Revolution
many of the colonists were successfully en-
gaged in silk culture, but when the war be-
gan the industry was entirely suspended.
From 1825 to 1844 there was a great reviv-
al of interest in silk culture throughout the
country, but one of those inexplicable ex-
citements to which nations are subject, tem-

[Column 2]
porarily suppressed the industry. The
gambling in the stocks of mulberry cuttings
reached a point only equalled by the tulip
craze in Holland. Many men lost their en-
tire fortunes and every one was foolishly
turned from the idea of engaging in silk
culture.
	The people of Utah are quite familiar
with the history of sericulture in this State.
There has been a constant attempt on the
part of the leaders of the people to guide
them to industries of all kinds which shall
make them useful and prosperous. Silk
culture is an important industry to which.
Utah is well adapted by its climatic condi-
tions. What has already been done in silk
culture in Utah is a promise that great
things can be accomplished in the future.
The time should be near at hand when all
the silk required in the various cloth manu-
factories in Utah should be supplied at
home. The thousands of dollars then earned
will help to educate our children, build
comfortable houses, improve our roads and
eventually prove one of the foundation
stones upon which the prosperity of the
State shall rest.
	Let every woman who raises a few pounds
of cocoons in her little home feel that she
is a factor in a great enterprise which the
State is undertaking for the good of us all.
As she watches the wonderful mystery of
the assimilation of the fibers of the mul-
berry leaves and the spinning of the golden
web, may she feel that this wonderful pro-
cess of nature is to be made use of for com-
munity life. The perfect adaptability of
God’s plan of nature to the needs of man,
to my mind, has never been more clearly
indicated than in the development of the
silk industry. May the State continue to
foster it and patriotic women continually re-
spond to the efforts of the State.
			CORINNE W. ALLEN.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RED TAPE.

	[The following from a Chicago paper illustrates
the too frequent course of events in volunteer,
service.]
	He started to war in splendid shape,
	But they held him in with a piece of tape,
				Red tape.
	He fought with canister and grape
	As well as he could.They were tied with tape,
				Red tape.
	He lived on what he could rake and scrape
	For his regular grub was tied with tape,
				Red tape.
	And many and many a narrow escape 
	He had because he was hampered with tape, 
				Red tape.
	He sickened. They laid his wasted shape
	On a nice, soft cot that was made of tape,
				Red tape.
	He died. His form they proceeded to drape
	In a winding sheet that they made of tape,
				Red tape.
	Let not the symbol of mourning be crape;
	Let the door knob simply be wrapped with tape
				Red tape.


Miss Chanler, of New York, has received
great praise from Lieutenant Colonvi Nich-
olas Senn, chief of the operating staff of the
army who has just returned from Porto
Rico. He says the Red Cross nurse worked
night and day with untiring zeal minister-
ing to the sick and wounded soldiers. Miss
Chanler is a niece of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.


EVOLUTION.

	“Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after
righteousness for they shall be filled.”
I walk in the radiant glory of a new-born, golden
	day,
As full of calm, fresh sunshine as the cloudless
	skies of May,
And my steps are light as Zephyr, for my hope is
	bright as morn,
And the glow of the day shall brighten in the
	light that is yet unborn.

In the vistas of ages vanished, in the tears and 
	groans and strife,
In the turbulent pulse [-]f the cosmos, in the 
	panting toil of life.
In the chaos all but formless, in the cloud that
	holds a rod,
In the dreary tread of ages I behold the hand
	of God.

Upward and ever upward His radiant beacons
	mount,
And the heart of the world is quickened, by the
	infinite sun it fount,
The Fount of the Infinite Father, so gentle and
	true and kind, 
Patiently striving and giving Himself to the
	darkened finite Mind.

For ages before man’s knowledge, I see from the
	lowly sod,
A white, wan face uplifted in a broken prayer to
	God;
So the prayer hath touched the heart of Him who
	is Joy and Love and Light,
And the sweet response lifts the lowly Heart up,
	up fiom the depths of Night.

Still on in the dim prospective, in the solemn
	march of time,
We read the story of Light and Love struggling
	up to a height sublime. 
Eternity looms before us: shall Humanity’s dream
	come true?
Ah, yes! For the trend of the Soul mounts on
	with deathless Life in view!

Though here in the shadows of earth-life our
	human strength grows faint,
Through sorrow and sin and darkness the crushed
	soul moans comp[-]aint,
Yet Truth never sleeps on the Tower, God’s
	forces of love march on,
And we shout our joy to the great wide world as
	the next black shade has gone.

Though our hearts may be chilled in the night-
	shades, where the saviors of men have stood,
Ever battling with souls undaunted, for the up-
	ward trend of God,
’Tis sweet to know that the irid east for the,
	famished heart holds more
Than even the glorious, purpled morn hath
	promised to hold in store.

And so I walk in a fairy dream with my spirit all
	aglow,
And joy in the light of a day that will come with
	the shadows all laid low.
For the Father’s hand is upon the helm and the
	heart of man will yield,
And evil shall cease for the soul of Christ shall
	garner the whitened field.
					RUBY LAMONT.
Circleville, Utah, Sep. 6, 1898.


If New York had woman suffrage the 
chances are that the ticket would be
Theodore Roosevelt and Helen Gould.
	Miss Helen Gould is going about Camp
Wikoff finding sick soldiers who have no
home and no friends and sending them up
to Terrytown. where she has provided a
temporary hospital of her own.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published, semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pike ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.
	
SALT LAKE CITY OCTOBTR 1 & 15, 1898.


THE GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The General Semi-Annual Conference
held this month commencing on Thursday
the 6th inst., and closing its sessions on
Sunday afternoon, October 9, was one of
the most important conferences in the his-
tory of the Church. The solemn and im-
pressive spectacle of the voting by the
several quorums of the priesthood and the
general assembly was calculated to awaken
the spiritual emotions of every member of
the Church and to make a lasting impres-
sion upon all who witnessed it.
	The sermons and instructions during the
conference have been particularly spiritual
in their character, although some temporal
matters have necessarily been brought to
the attention of the people in a forcible
way, which cannot but be beneficial in the
daily lives of those who are striving to
build up a great commonwealth, and to es-
tablish principles of economy, industry and
thrift, as shall prove to those who receive
the same their faith by their works.
	The great need of faith in God has been
one of the strong points in all the teaching
given, and the need of a living and abiding
testimony of the truth of the Gospel as re-
vealed in this last dispensation. The pros-
perity of the people in these valleys, the
abundance of good things of this life en-
joyed by those who have settled here in
Utah under such adverse circumstances,
the great work of gathering the Saints
from other lands, and many other subjects
were treated upon by the speakers, and the
future awaiting those who remained faith-
ful to their covenants entered into and obli-
gations resting upon them were plainly set
forth to the understanding of all present.
	The music has been of the highest class,
indeed everything has been done to uplift
and encourage the Saints, and one cannot
help feeling that those who came to be fed
with the bread of life have received each a
portion in due season and it has created a
feeling of confidence in the hearts of those who
hearkened and heard—that these who pre-
side here upon the earth do indeed have
communion with Him who rules and reigns
over the destinies of the children of men,
and that they know the mind and will of
the Lord from day to day and from time to
time concerning Zion. A feeling of sereni-
ty and of peace abides with the Saints
notwithstanding the turmoil, strife and up-
rising among the nations of the earth of
which we hear and read continually.


ANNOUNCEMENT.

	The annual executive sessions of the
National Council of Women of the United
States in Omaha will convene on the 24th
to the 29th of October (inclusive) under
the auspices of the Woman’s Department
of the Trans-Mississippi Exposition. The
rates from the West are more reasonable
than ever before, and it is desirable that
women who have means should educate
themselves in the Council idea which is
much more important, influential and far-
reaching than one might think who is not
thoroughly posted on the subject.
	The Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I.
A. are both connected with the National
Council, and every officer and also members
of the great organization should try to get
a proper understanding of the advantages
that occur to the associations through their
membership and standing with other wo-
men the world over.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	There will be an entertainment given at
the handsome new residence of Mr. and
Mrs. O. J. Salisbury in this city in the inter-
est of the woman’s department of the George
Washington Memorial Fund. Utah was
given its proportion, a thousand dollars,
and nearly that amount was raised in small
donations from the school children. A lit-
tle over a hundred dollars is lacking to
make up the thousand and a unique pro-
gramme has been prepared by the commit-
tee who have had the work in charge,
which will be more than compensation for
the price of the tickets. It will not be a
social affair, but there will be music and
other pleasing features and a talk by Cap-
tain Ducat who was in the battle at Santi-
ago de Cuba.
	The meetings of the National Woman’s
Relief Society held this month have been
fraught with much interest and a general
good feeling has been manifested in the
charitable and philanthropic work of this
oldest organization; and the instruction
given by President Zina D. H. Young and
her counselors and assistants has been of a
nature calculated to bind together and
strengthen the work in the various locali-
ties, and to increase the interest of the Soci-
ety in the several lines of work necessary
to the accomplishment of the purposes de-
signed when the organization was effected.
To elevate and uplift the condition of those
who need assistance temporally or spiritual-
ly, to provide employment for the idle and
to secure the wheat that has been gathered
and held in trust as well as add to the quan-
ty now while bounteous harvests are being
garnered. These and many other matters
have been discussed by those residing in
this centre Stake of Zion and by those who
have come from a distance, until it would
seem these topics must be thoroughly
understood.


U. W. P. C.

	On Friday evening, Sep. 30, 1898, the
Press Club met as usual in the “Exponent”
office. Called to order by President Ro-
mania B. Pratt, Mrs. E. B. Wells made the
opening prayer. Roll call was answered
by sentiments from Shakespeare. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
The business of incorporating the club was


brought up. A motion was made by Mrs.
E. B. Wells and seconded by Lydia D.
Alder that the Press Club be incorporated;
carried. Moved by Mrs. E. W. Hyde and
seconded by Ellis R. Shipp that the presi-
dent appoint a committee to attend to it;
carried. The president appointed Mrs. E.
B. Wells and Mrs. Margaret A. Caine.
	A letter was read by the corresponding
secretary, L. D. Alder, from the editors of
Woman’s Work thanking the club for their
splendid report, also asking for meritorious
papers written by club members; also read
a letter from the secretary of the State
Federation in regard to annual dues for
the coming year. It was moved by Mrs.
E. B. Wells and seconded by Ruth M. Fox
that the dues be paid; carried.
	What shall we do at our initial meeting?
was then discussed. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
moved that we meet at Mrs. Bunnell’s home
125 First St.; carried. It was also decided
that the club have an open discussion on
the late queen of Denmark, the Dreyfus 
case and Hallowe’en, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Helen V. Kimball and Ruth M. Fox lead-
ing in the respective topics.
	It was decided that we hold a business
meeting, Monday, October 10, at 7 o’clock
p. m., at the “Exponent” office.
	A most interesting and instructive paper
on the Empress Elizabeth of Austria was
read by Helen V. Kimball, and meeting
adjourned to meet at Mrs. Bunnell’s, Oct.
31. Dismissed by Lydia D. Alder.
			RUTH M. FOX, Act. Sec.


EMPRESS OF AUSTRIA.

ELIZABETH AMELIA EUGENIE, EMPRESS
OF AUSTRIA AND QUEEN OF HUNGARY.
	The people of Austria and Hungary were 
overwhelmed with sorrow and grief when
the dreadful tidings reached the palace that
their beloved empress had been brutally
assassinated at Geneva, Switzerland, on
September 10. The populace rushed into
the streets, anxiously inquiring for intelli-
gence, all hearts were filled with sadness
and a universal sympathy was expressed 
for the emperor, “upon whose head such
grief had fallen in the year of his Jubilee.”
	The empress was most beautiful, she has
been described as exquisitely lovely with
Narcissus fairness, great blue-black eyes,
teeth of pearly whiteness and magnificent
chestnut hair which fell to her knees; her 
ethereal form clouded in silk-embroidered,
diamond-studded gauze, with large emer-
alds glittering on her hair and bosom.
She was highly educated, conversed elo-
quently, played exquisitely on the zither
and organ, sang well and had great talent
for painting. Her vanity was in her hair
which she had brushed four hours every
day, during which time her reader read to 
her.
THE STORY OF HER BETROTHAL. 
	A marriage had been arranged for the
emperor with her eldest sister. The young 
monarch arrived at the castle of his future
father-in-law for the purpose of being
officially betrothed. He, however, fell
madly in love with Princess Elizabeth who
was yet in short dresses, and breaking off
his engagement with Princess Helen he
married the young sister.
	She disliked Vienna and the Viennese
and she passionately loved the Hungarian.
The Viennese had looked for a far grander


[Column 1]
alliance for their emperor, and considered
that the impoverished family of Duke Max-
imilian, who was not even a Royal High-
ness, was unworthy so great a distinction.
Consequently the young empress was dur-
ing the first ten or twelve years of her
marriage treated with coldness and disdain
by the public, by the arrogant Austrian
aristocracy and by the members of the im-
perial family and in particular by Arch-
duchess Sophia, the empress mother, who
being talented and strongminded exercised
an enormous influence over her son’s mind.
She became intensely jealous of her lovely
daughter-in-law and instigated many of
the stories circulated about her, that of the
staircase of the palace Schoenbrum being a
sample.
	Said a lady of her court: “So much of a
purely imaginative and mendacious nature
has been published during the past years
concerning the empress-queen of Austria-
Hungary by persons who have never had
an opportunity of obtaining authentic in-
formation about her, that it may possibly
interest readers to learn something of her
majesty’s character and mode of life from
one who has enjoyed the privilege of form-
ing one of her immediate circle.
	Elizabeth’s intense horror of publicity,
her love of seclusion and her exquisitely
beautiful and romantic personality have
rendered her the victim of misrepresenta-
tion that is ludicrous and frequently cruel.
Elizabeth, although regarded as an interest-
ing figure, is not one that is popular in the
general sense of the word, hence many of
these elaborately spun tissues of falsehood
have been of an inconsiderate and painful
character. One of the most unfounded of
these statements is the one to the effect that
her majesty has succumbed to the heredi-
tary curse of the house of Bavaria. She is
not demented, nor has she ever been so,
even momentarily. Broken-hearted by
sorrows, which were due to no fault of hers.
Yes; but not even a prey to melancholia so
graphically described by imaginative news-
paper writers.
	Her failure to acquire popularity was
due to her loftiness and great nobility of
character. Being remarkably gifted by
nature and education she was quick to per-
ceive the foibles and weaknesses of those
with whom she was brought into contact;
too honest to pretend with regard to the
same any blindness she did not feel, her
delicacy and purity of mind rendered her
intolerant with regard to the delinquencies
and indiscretions of a mundane’s life. She
condemned openly, and a mere look of her
glorious eyes was sufficient to convey a re-
proach to those whose consciences reproved
them.
	Her taste was refined, fastidious and
satircal. Love as ordinarily understood
was displeasing to her, and no man has
been able to obtain any influence over her;
when they attempted to change from
courtiers to open admirers they found an
impassable barrier between them in her
chilliness of manner. She has been sur-
rounded by all the powers of passion but
has never granted them more than a cool
smile of compassionate pity, those who
call her heartless prefering animals to
human beings, little know the true origin
of her reticence and coldness. She was
noble, silent, brave, resolute, generous and
absolutely truthful in all things.
	Francis Joseph has good looks, supreme
elegance, chivalry and a marvelous charm

[Column 2]
of manner. He is a soldier, a keen hunter,
a thinker, scholar, a satirist and is kind-
hearted. Although he has been drawn into
many so called affaires-de-coeur, he has
never loved but one woman, and that wo-
man is his wife. Not one tithe of the ad-
ventures ascribed to the Austrian monarch
are true. Women of all ranks admire him
and he never was able to withstand the
charm of this delightful homage; his soft-
heartedness in regard to women rendered
him cruel to the one he really loved. Often
at first the empress was angry, too proud to
stoop to jealousy. She bitterly suffered
when neglected, but found consolation in
religion, kind and warmhearted she helped
the unfortunate and consoled them as did
her namesake, Elizabeth of Hungary, cen-
turies ago. In her visits to the slums of
her empire numerous families were redeem-
ed from misery and suffering, many foul
places were purged to moral and physical
cleanliness and many young people male
and female were saved from crime and
shame.
	The empress was an enthusiastic horse-
woman and she smoked cigarettes and
strong cigars, which she said soothed her
nerves. It is a pity she could not have en-
joyed the splendor of her surroundings.
	Hapsburg, or Habsburg (named from the
old castle of Habsburg in Aargan, Swtzer-
land older name, Hawks Castle,) an ancient
and illustrious family to which belongs the
reigning sovereign of Austria. The castle,
which was built by Werner, Bishop of
Strassburg, 1001—29, is now in ruins, only
the walls of the tower remaining. The
founder of the house, however, was Albert,
who is mentioned as the Count of Hapsburg
in 1153. Under him and his son Rudolf I.
the family became the most powerful in
southern Germany and gained control of a
considerable part of Switzerland.
	The first German emperor of this family
was Rudolf I., who founded the Austrian
house which from 1438 to 1806 held the
German imperial crown, and since that
time has held that of Austria. In Spain,
Burgundy, Tuscany and Modena Haps-
burg monarchs, but of the Spanish line,
have also borne sway. The Spanish line
sprung from Charles V., whose father was
a son of Maximilian I., and whose mother
was a daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella.
When he abdicated in 1555 he left his Aus
trian possessions and the imperial crown of
Germany to Ferdinand I., Spain and the
Netherlands to his son, Philip II. With
Charles II. the Spanish line of the house of
Hapsburg became extinct 1700, and the
Spanish war of succession began, which left
Spain to the house of Bourbon.
	In 1881 it was proposed to purchase the
Castle of Hapsburg and present it to the
crown prince of Austria, but the people of
Aargan opposed it so violently the project
was abandoned. Imagine what it is to be
there where their wealth has been accumu-
lating for ages. Vienna, the imperial capi-
tal of Austria-Hungary, on the right bank
of the Danube, where occurs the only break
in the great chain of the Alps and Carpath-
an mountains which divide the northwest-
ern from the southwestern part of Central
Europe. Hence it was chosen by the
Romans as a place worthy of settlement
and fortification against the tribes north of
the Danube. During the middle ages it be-
came a great centre of trade between the
north, south, east and west, and thus ac-
quired a cosmopolitan character which

[Column 3]
renders it one of the most interesting and,-
beautiful cities of Europe. The city lies at
the base of the double-peaked Thahlenberg
(Bald mountain) on which is seen the border
of the Viennese woods, whose beauty,
render the environs of the city most attrac-
tive. The public and private buildings in-
clude some of the finest of modern architec-
ture. The Court theatre is of white marble 
and its sculptures, in portraits and allegorical
figures, tell the story of the world’s drama.
Two imperial museum buildings of great
extent face each other across a square, in
the center of which stands Conova’s great
monument of Maria Theresa, surrounded
by flowers and shrubbery amid which play
the waters of four exquisite marble foun-
tains.
	In the king’s palace the grand stairway
and entrance hall are most beautiful. As
you enter the palace there is a grotto of
shells with fountain. In the Crown room
are portraits in court costume of the present
emperor and empress. The palaces are so
beautiful one leaves them with regret.
Now that the empress rests in the solemn,
silent vaults of the Capuchin church where 
so many of the Hapsburgs are resting in
silver and in bronze coffins on the stone
floor beneath the arches, her many virtues
will become prominent.
				HELEN V. KIM
Read at the U. W. P. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE MARTHAS AND MARYS.

	In Luke chapter 10, verses 41-42, we
find the words, “Martha, Martha, thou art
careful and troubled about many things,
but Mary hath chosen the better part which
shall not be taken from her.”
	Now God forbid that I should be irrever-
ent or question the sayings of the Master, 
but it seems to me He was rather hard on
Martha on that occasion. I can only think
that the whole is not told and that there is 
more than we see in the Savior’s words.
	Martha was cumbered with much serv-
ing we are told, and it seems as if Mary
instead of lending a helping hand was sit-
ting at Jesus’ feet drinking in His wonder- 
ful words; perhaps he was expounding to
her the principles of the Gospel not perfect-
ly understood by her, and she in her rapt
attention forgot her sister laborers. But
Martha was working for Him, she was pre- 
paring the feast at which He was to join, 
but why was she less honored in her duties
than her sister? Doubtless she would
have liked to hear His wonderful words too,
but He might have had to depart or retire
supperless had she done so. I have often
thought of these words and wondered at
them
	There are many toiling Marthas today
who would gladly take the place of the
Marys, but by reason of their multifarious
duties have not the time.
	I picture before me a good and worthy
sister spending her life and her means in
every good act that comes in her way,
in fact giving her time and substance in the
service of the Master, her name honored,
her very presence felt and a murmur of
blessing following her on every side. I see
another sister whose aspirations are as high, 
whose love of the Master is as great and
who would gladly devote her life to His
ministry but who is poor and has to toil for
her daily bread, and has but little time to
devote to the better part. Her toils are


unrecognized, there is no murmur of ap-
plause, no one rises to call her blessed.
In the hereafter when the good Lord
judges all flesh, can it be possible that she
will have less glory than her more favored
sister?
	I see a patient, untiring mother with only
small means toiling from morning to night
for her husband and children with little or
no encouragement, (by the way, husbands
might often lift a great weight of care by
saying a cheering word of praise, they do
not think, how dear such trifles are to the
weary and careworn wife,) but still she
toils on. There are thousands of Marthas
bearing many heartaches that are not able
to take the place of the Marys, and whose
inmost soul cries out, “Bless me also, even
me O Lord!”
	The Master knew Martha well, for we
are told “He loved Martha and her sister,”
so she must have been thoroughly under-
stood by Him. Then why the rebuke?
Surely, surely there is a crown of glory for
the Marthas also!
	I shall be glad if any sister or brother
will throw a little light on the Savior’s
words, which I acknowledge I am unable
to understand.
					DILBHUR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

ONEIDA STAKE
	Minutes of the Oneida Stake Relief Soci-
ety quarterly conference held in the Frank-
lin meeting house, Sep. 13, 1898.
	Morning Session: On the stand were
Stake President Elizabeth Fox, Counselor
Mary Hawks and Sister Elizabeth J. Stev-
enson of Salt Lake City. Meeting opened
by singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah” Prayer by Sister Phebe McNeil.
singing “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.” The minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved.
	President Fox was pleased to see so
many present, as the Stake had been divid-
ed recently there would not be so many
wards represented as heretofore, there being
but twelve wards left in the Stake instead
of twenty-seven.
	President Phebe McNeil reported the
Fairview ward; Julia Ropen, Preston; L.
B. Benson, Whitney; Annie Challis, Frank-
lin. All are in a flourishing condition both
spiritually and financially.
	Counselor Mary Hawks said: “It takes
energy to push any great cause along. We
have cause to be proud of the noble women
at the head of these organizations. There
are also women of the world doing noble
deeds. We should watch our youth, many
allurements surround them, infidelity
abounds on the earth.”
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt pleased to be
present. Said we had already heard many
truths, considered it a privilege in hearing
the minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society of the Church. It is quite
proper for the young ladies to join these
associations We should teach our
daughters to be good housewives, indus-
trious workers and not mortgage our homes
for the vanities of the world. We shall be
tried all we can stand.
	Singing “O, Jesus the Giver.” Bene-
diction by Counselor Mary Hawks.
	Afternoon Session: Singing “Come O,
Thou king of Kings.” Prayer by James
Challis. Singing “Prayer is the soul’s sin-

[Column 2]
cere desire.” Dayton and St. Joseph wards
reported.
	President Fox was pleased with the ex-
cellent reports. “Our Stake is so small now
we will be able to visit every ward.” Spoke
of their travels through the Stake before its
division, considered it important to gather
in the grain in the season thereof. The
Lord has blest us with bounteous harvests,
we should make every effort to store our
grain.
	Sister Stevenson touched upon the sub-
ject of storing grain; said in the midst of
counsel there is safety. President Wood-
ruff has said the vials of wrath were being
poured out. We must take care of our
health and attend our meetings. Our sis-
ters are being called on missions, great re-
sponsibilities will rest upon our young
people. Advised the sisters to take the
“Exponent.”
	Statistical and financial report read and
accepted. Mary Hawks presented the
general board of Relief Society officers.
All were sustained, and also the officers of
this Stake.
	Bishop L. L. Hatch heartily endorsed
all that had been said. President Fox and
Counselor Mary Hawks encouraged all to
love one another and be united, unity is
strength.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing “Come listen to a prophet’s voice.”
Benediction by James Herd.
				ANNIE HATCH, Sec.
SUMMIT STAKE.
	Minutes of semi-annual conference of
Summit Stake Relief Society held at Hen-
nefer, Tuesday, Sep. 6, President Mary J.
Atwood presiding. Meeting commenced at
10:20 by singing “Prayer is the soul’s sin-
cere desire.” Prayer by Brother Pascot.
Singing “Come listen to a prophet’s voice.”
	On the stand were Counselors Ann Cluff
and Ruth M. Pack, Dr. E. S. Barney of
Salt Lake City, and Stake President W. W.
Cluff. The minutes of the previous con-
ference were read and accepted. Stake re-
port read. Verbal reports were given by
President Ann Harder, Kamas; President
Elizabeth Lusty, Coalville; President
Louisa Wickle, Echo; Counselor Sarah E.
Sargent, Hoytsville; Counselor Hannah
Richen, Hennefer.
	Counselor Ruth M. Pack then addressed
the sisters, advising them to build good
granaries and lay up wheat. Said: “We
have an abundant harvest this year and the
grain is good, work in the time thereof then
your duties will be easy. Get the spirit of
God, have your lamps trimmed and burn-
ing, that you may be prepared for whatever
is before you. It is a grand thing to be a
Latter day Saint. We have to do our
work in this dispensation to prepare for the
future, ask the Lord for His holy spirit to
give you strength to perform every duty.”
	President Atwood introduced Dr. E. S.
Barney who spoke upon a variety of sub-
jects and said: “My only desire is to do
good to others. If you wish to be edified
you must give your strict attention and be
united, that you may draw out the speaker
according to your desires. I am pleased to
meet with you and with one of your officers,
Sister Ruth Pack, whom I was acquainted
with over fifty years ago in Nauvoo and
crossing the plains. You have good com-
petent officers in your Stake organization,
listen to their counsels. Lay up all the
wheat you can, it will keep if well protect-

[Column 3]
ed. I had some bread made from flour that
I had kept fourteen years, it was sweet and
good. I sealed it up in tin cans and it kept
good. When you talk or read to a congre-
gation, or when you pray, don’t hide your
face behind a book or down in your hands,
but lift up your head so that your voice
may go out clear and distinct to the hear-
ers, that they may all say amen. May the
Lord help us to understand our positions is
my desire in the name of Jesus Christ.
	The morning session closed by singing.
Benediction by President W. W. Cluff.
	Afternoon session called to order at 2
o’clock by President Atwood. After the
opening exercise roll was called and six
branches represented. Counselor Ann Cluff
then presented the officers of the Central
Board who were sustained unanimously.
The Summit Stake Relief Society officers
were presented and sustained; the ward
presidents with their counselors as they
now stand were presented and sustained
unanimously.
	Counselor Ann Cluff said: “We all know
this society cannot be carried on without
means, we should have charity not only
with our means, but with one another.
Teachers should enter into their duties
with all their heart and soul, be determined
to do right and all the good possible; re-
member that charity covers a multitude of
sins. I ask the Lord to help us all.”
	President Atwood said: “I am very well,
pleased with our conference, I thought as
the presidents were reporting and they said
there was no poor to need help, what a
blessed people. There are a few that are
sick and when you go to visit them go
clothed with the spirit of your calling and
they will be pleased and comforted with
your visit. Give what you have to give
and ask God to bless the suffering. Your
offers are ‘like bread cast upon the waters,
after many days they will return,’ in bless-
ings upon your heads. We should be bet-
ter acquainted with each other and be
thankful for our homes and surroundings.”
	Sister Barney spoke for some time, touch-
ing upon her medical studies, and address-
ing the teachers she said: “Don’t ever say
you are begging. You are soliciting means
to carry out one of God’s requirements to
assist the poor and needy. What have we
that is our own? Not a thing, all belongs
to the Lord, you are only stewards and
should be liberal. If we were living in the
united order this would all be done away
with, for we would all be equal. Tithes
and offerings bring forth the blessings of
heaven.”
	President W. W. Cluff announced the
time of our beloved President Wilford
Woodruff’s funeral and made a few re-
marks, saying if the sisters are not proud of
themselves the brethren are proud of them.
“Their reports are excellent and you should
be proud of your perfect organization in the
Relief Society. I always admired Sister
Barney’s energy and push. I have been
acquainted with her a long time and al-
ways found her full of energy. The teach-
ers who feel like they are begging don’t
have the spirit of their mission upon them.
You go forth to solicit means to carry on
that part of the work of the Lord, and you 
should all be earnest in your labors. This
conference now adjourns to meet in Coal-
ville the first Tuesday in May, 1899.”
	Singing “Hail Emanuel.” Benediction
by Edmond Eldredge. 
	MARY L. WOOLSTENHULME, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

LYDIA EVELINE CARTER HALES. 
	Died at Bountiful, Utah, August 18, 1898, of
dysentery and old age, Mrs. Lydia Eveline Carter
Hales, wife of Stephen Ha[-]es; she has been a
widow for seventeen yea[-]s. Her husband died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1861. Mrs. Lydia
Eveline Carter Hales was a native of Vermont.
When a child of ten years, at her father’s house
in the town of Benson, Rutland Co., Vermont,
Parley P. Pratt came into the town preaching the
doctrine of Christ. At that time her father,
Simeon Carter, was a Methodist preacher and
could quote the Bible with great facility. Elder
Pratt was not long in convincing Mr. Carter that
the Church of Jesus Christ was the one he was
looking for.
	At the time the Saints were gathering at Nau-
voo Mr. Carter with his wife, one son and Lydia
Eveline moved to Nauvoo. Lydia grew to wo-
manhood and was married to Stephen Hales Oct-
ober 16, 1832, by P. G. Sessions. They built
themselves a comfortable home but did not enjoy
it long, as a mob drove the Saints out from Nau-
voo. They then started for Utah; got as far as
Iowa and on account of sickness did not leave
for two years, arriving in Ut[-]h in the fall of 1851.
They stayed in Salt Lake City until 1868 when
they moved to Bountiful, where Mrs. Hales has
lived up to the time of her death. Mrs. Hales
has lived a quiet life and leaves numerous rela-
tives and friends to mourn her loss. She died a
faithful member of the Church.
	Funeral services were held in the South Boun-
tiful meeting house on Sunday afternoon August
21, at 2 o’clock.
							[COM.]
GONE TO HER REST.
	In the recent death of our aged relative and
friend, Sister Phebe Beable Rodeback, who de-
parted this life Sep. 17, at 11 p. m., t[-]is world lost
one of its [-]oblest souls and heaven gained as pure
and holy a spirit as ever entered its portals.
	Being an early pioneer she witnessed all the
trying scenes and annoying times which harassed
the Saints during the first settlement of our now
beautiful State, and with them she bore those
trials with patience and an unflinching heart.
Ever quiet, kind and loving, sh[-] was loved a[-]d
esteemed by all who knew her. She was so un-
selfish she thought always of others before her-
self, and so long as she was able her gentle, will-
ing hands were ever ready to aid others in their
hour of need and distress.
	Her mind, which for her advanced years, was
unusually bri[-]ht, and until the day of her death
she understood ever thing that was happening
around her, and talked intelligently on all the
leading events and topics of the times.
	Sister Rodeback and her husband were friends
of t[-]e Prophet Joseph Smith and often enter-
tained him at their home in Nauvoo They were
also very dear friends of Bishop Edward Hunter
and before their marriage in Pennsylvania we[-]e
both members of that good man’s household.
	Sister Rodeback passed from this earth at the
home of her daughter. Mrs. Rebecca Cook of
Cedar valley, Utah, to join her loved ones on the
golden shore, and to meet the God whom she
had loved and served so long and faithfully. She
was the widow of the late James Rodeback and
wa born in Chester Co., Pa., June 26, 1811. In
1839 she became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in 1840 or
41 removed to Nauvoo where she resided during
the troublous times there. With her husband
and six chi[-]dren she came to Utah in 1852, being
a memb[-]r of the late Uriah Curtis’ company
	Si[-]ter Rodeback remained a faithtul Latter-
day Saint until the end and has surely received
the promised great reward in heaven.
								L. E. C.


DEDICATION OF A GRANARY AT
MILL CREEK.

	The Relief Society of Mill Creek ward,
Salt Lake Co, have just completed a sub-
stantial wheat bin with a capacity of fifteen
hundred bushels, at a cost of about two
hundred dollars. The bin is situated at
Bishop Jas. C. Hamilton’s.
	The members of the Relief Society, their
husbands, the officers of the Young Men’s
and Young Ladies associations, also Patri-


arch Archibald Hill and Bishop John R.
Winder and wife were invited to assemble
and dedicate the same, Tuesday, September
20. Bishop Hamilton placed his fine resi-
dence and grounds at the disposal of the
Society and the following program was
rendered: The choir under the leadership
of Brother Richard M. Horne sang “Praise
Ye the Lord.” Prayer was offered by
Patriarch Hill. Another song was render-
ed by the choir and an essay on wheat was
read by Secretary Frances Hanson. Brother
Edward White sang a song, and those pres-
ent then repaired to the bin and as many as
so wished inspected, the same. Bishop
John R. Winder, kneeling on the steps,
offered the dedicatory prayer. It was a
very imposing ceremony, and all seemed to
feel that it was a step in the right direction.
The audience returned to the lawn and the
choir sang “We Have Thought of Thy Kind-
ness.” Counselor Mary B. Hamilton recit-
ed a selection, “The Curse of the Dram
Shop.” Sister Sarah F. Boden sang, “Do
They Miss Me at Home?” Counselor James
R. Miller, Brother R. M. Horne, Bishop J.
R. Winder and Bishop J. C. Hamilton each
spoke in reference to the storing of grain by
the Relief Society. President Elizabeth
Hill in a few well chosen words thanked all
those who had assisted in making the under-
taking a success.
	One hundred and thirty then sat down at
one long table arranged across the lawn,
which was loaded with the bounties of the
earth. The young ladies who acted as
waiters, also the committee on arrangements
deserve special mention. After supper there
was music and singing. It was an occasion
long to be remembered, and the unity which
prevailed caused all to return home well
satisfied with the day’s proceedings.
FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec.


[Column 1]
STAND BY AMERICAN PRINCIPLES.

Indianapolis, Ind., Sep. 15, 1898.
	To me it is a bitter disappointment that
our great Republic had not gotten on far
enough to do righteousness and to compel
another nation to do righteousness without
resorting to bloodshed. To my mind there
is a contradiction in the words "Civilized
war," and a more emphatic contradiction
in the words "Christian war."
	It seemed six months ago that our coun-
try would rally all the moral forces latent
in the people, by a diplomatic use of those
forces to rescue Cuba from tyranny.
Whether it might have done so we can
never know; that it did not is certain. Those
of us who deplored the war, as well as those
who invoked it, must feel a patriotic pride
in the courage and gallantry that our men
have manifested in every encounter, wheth-
er by land or sea. We must feel an equal
pride in the heroism with which they have
borne hardships not necessary even in war-
fare.
	But the pride we feel in that physical
heroism, which could not have been mani-
fested without an undercurrent of moral
heroism, must not blind us to the dangers
that assail our country in its hour of
triumph. If ever a nation accompanied a
declaration of war with an avowal of abso-
lute unselfishness, such declaration was
made by the United States through its
Senate in the resolution which disavowed
any intention of territorial aggression. Now
the war being ended, temporarily at least,

[Column 2]
one can hardly pick up a newspaper of
any party, or even a religious newspaper of
any sect without encountering such phrases
as "Our new territory," "The conquered
provinces," "The rightful spoils of the con-
querer." "Our conquests," "Our new
colonial possessions," etc- What do these
phrases mean? Do they mean that as a
nation we have forgotten our disavowal of
any desire to increase our territory by the
war with Spain? Does it mean that we
have really resumed the mediæval standard,
and believe in military conquests? Does it
mean that the ideal of Cæsar and the ambi-
tion of Napoleon have displaced the ideas of
Washington and his associates?
	How can we talk of "Our new posses-
sions?" Do we own the Ladrones by con-
quest? Have we a right to replace in
Cuba the domination of the Spaniard by
the domination of the United States?
What is the meaning of this discussion
of whether we shall annex the Philippines
as a group, or be satisfied with taking a few
of the islands?
	These discussions, and the constant re-
currence of phrases like those quoted above
seem to indicate that we are maddened by
the taste of blood, and that the influence of
the war, or of our success in it, has been to
blind us to the principles which we have
avowed, the principles indeed upon which
our Government rests.
	For myself I have never been abroad
without feeling, in the presence of the uni-
formed soldiery on every hand, a reminder
of the blessed condition of my own land. I
have been more proud and more grateful
for our having no standing army and no
navy than for any possessions that my
country could boast, I have heard hun-
dreds of American citizens express the same
sentiments, and have read columns of cor-
respondence and editorial and other news-
paper writing, the sole object of which was
to congratulate the citizens of the United
States on being free from militarism. Yet
now we are as eager to have the largest
navy in the world, to increase our standing
army and to become "a military power" as
Germany itself. Do we believe that
"government derives its just power from
the consent of the governed?" Can we
pretend that we believe this, and then set
up a "military government" in what we
call our "conquered provinces?"
	It seems that one encounters ridicule by
even asking these questions. We are told
that the "Idealism which did very well for
a young nation, for a youthful people de-
veloping under pioneer conditions, is not
for seventy millions with a navy strong
enough to be a balance of power in the
Eastern question." This scornful rejection
of our ideals, one encounters in nine out of
every ten newspaper paragraphs that she
sees, and in nine but of every ten public
speeches that she hears.
	Are we, then, to confess that the ideals,
which for more than a century we have
boasted were destined to secure the ultimate
union of all the peoples of the world in a
federation of republics, are fit only for peo-
ple just emerging fron colonial subjection,
and not at all for people developed into im-
perial strength? Can only the puny and
the few rejoice in ideals? And are these
most precious of all possessions to be sur-
rendered by the numerous and the strong?
	The immediate first duty of every good
American, of every good citizen of a repub-
lic, of every believer in the doctrine of self-
government, of every man or woman who


has ever boasted that our country was a
refuge of the oppressed, and that our
Government was framed upon principles to
which the world in the evolutionary pro-
cess would come, is to expunge the obnox-
ious monarchial, anti-democratic, anti-
Christian phrases that are polluting our
speech. “Remember the Maine,” that
direct appeal to the sentiment of revenge,
“The rights of the conquering nations,”
that direct confession of allegiance to
Ceasarism—let these phrases and all their
numerous synonyms be compelled to go.
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
Minutes of Ladies Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall, Aug-
ust 27, 1898, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. Opened by singing "For the
strength of the hills we bless thee.” Pray-
er by Counselor E. L. Webb. Continued
by singing ‘‘Welcome best of all good
meetings.” Sister Stevenson stated that
President Horne would not be able to meet
with us today and asked the sisters to ex-
ercise faith that Sister Horne might be
strengthened, and her heart made to re-
joice. Minutes read and approved.
Counselor E. J. Stevenson gave valuable
instruction and spoke of the accidental
death of Sister Horne’s grandson. Our
sympathies go out to those who are afflicted
and bereaved.
Sister E. Barrow thought we should live
by every word that proceedeth from the word
of God, and made other good remarks.
Sister Julia C. Howe said: “The love of
the Lord should be written in our hearts.
I think we have been negligent in not
teaching our children the ten command-
ments. Do we instruct our children what
these sins are? Parents should teach their
children all the virtues and then send them
to the Primary for further instruction. We
must teach our children by the fireside.
Sisters pray for those who are bereft in the
death of young Brother Horne, it is a
shock to our dear Sister Horne. May the
love of the Lord be imprinted on the hearts
of our children, and if we do not teach
them aright we will be held accountable.”
Sister M. W. Wilcox said: “May we be
enabled to comprehend the dealings of God
with us, honor the priesthood, exercise
faith in the Gospel, pray for our children
when they are going away from us, and I
believe God will respect us for it.”
Sister Barnes, Sister Martin and Sister
Rawlings each bore a faithful testimony.
The congregation sang “Lord Thou wilt
hear me when I pray.”
Sister Jane James made a few remarks.
Sister E. Webb spoke of the evil of allow-
ing our children to be out at night.
Sister Stevenson made a few closing re-
marks and meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing Doxology. Benediction
by Sister Margaret P. Young. 
LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


NOTES AND NEWS.

Miss Annie Wheeler, daughter of Gener-
al Wheeler, who had been nursing the sick
at Santiago, and has now come up to
Montauk, has become especially endeared
to the men for her adaptability under all
circumstances. On the voyage from Santi-


ago to Montauk, Miss Wheeler several
times acted as chaplain in reading the pray-
ers for the dead as the bodies were con-
signed to the watery grave.

Mrs. Ellen Louise Demorest, founder of
Demorest’s Monthly Magazine, died recent-
ly in New York City, after a long illness.
Mrs. Demorest had been actively engaged
for many years in philanthropic and temper-
ance work and in publishing the magazine
and other literary and fashionable periodi-
cals. She was born in Saratoga in 1824,
was the president of the Woman’s Christian
Temperance Union of New York City; vice-
president and trustee of the Woman’s Tem-
ple of Chicago; one of the charter members
and vice-president of Sor[-]sis; and a mem-
ber of many other societies. Mrs. Demo-
rest leaves four children—Mrs. Vienna
Demorest Gano, Henry C. Demorest, Wil-
liam C. Demorest and Mrs. Evelyn Demo-
rest Rea. 
Clara Barton will be ready to meet Sur-
geon-General Sternberg or anybody else
who wishes to lay responsibility for suffer-
ing on the Red Cross. It is not likely that
that official will be eager to hear the truth
all told by that straightforward lady. The
Red Cross took the lion’s share of the re-
sponsibility of relieving suffering so long
that Surgeon-General Sternberg’s announce-
ment is ridiculous. He says that inasmuch
as the Red Cross has had entrance to the
military camps since June 9 they must share
the responsibility for any suffering with the
War Department. The Red Cross isn’t
afraid but who is going to “investigate”
the merciful acts of a volunteer organiza-
tion managed by a disfranchised female
citizen?—Boston Transcript.
A small dish of powdered charcoal kep.
on one of the upper shelves of the refriger-
ator is an excellent thing to absorb odors.
It should be changed every few days.


[Column 1]
SWIFT AS THE EAGLE 
Denver is one day nearer Chicago to-day than
it was yesterday. This is the actual practical
effect of the fast mail trains inaugurated by the
North-Western and Union Pacific.—Chicago
Times Herald, Feb. 8, 1898.
“The Chicago Special"
	Leaves Denver, 4:30 p m today.
	Arrives Omaha, 7:00 a m tomorrow.
	Arrives Chicago, 8:45 p m tomorrow.
	To the Chicago, Union Pacific and North-
western belongs the credit of inaugurating the
new fast train service between Denver and
Chicago.
□ This new train is a triumph of modern rail-
roading. It consists of six magnificent cars:
Buffet, smoking and library car, with barber
shop, etc. Two splendid palace sleeping cars.
Reclining chair car. Dining car, meals a la
carte. Baggage car. 

	This is the only train between Denver and
Chicago having the luxurious 
.........Buffet, Smoking and Library Cars.
Westbound, “The Colorado Special" leaves
Chicago 10:00 a m, arrives Omaha 11:55 p m, to-
day, and Denver l:30 p m, tomorrow. 

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their, own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW. 
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
	WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
(In Effect July 17, 1898.
	Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:
	ARRIVE
From Chicago, Omaha. St Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City 
	and Ogden...................3 10 p m
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco. Ogden and intermed-
	iate points................ 8 55 a m
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. 7 15 p m
From Chicago, Omaha, St Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver and Ogden 3 10 a m
*From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate points.... 6 20 pm
+Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach...... 4 00 pm
	DEPART.
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City, St. Louis, Ogden and
	Park City.................. 7 00 a m 
For San Francisco, Ogden, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points. 8 05 a m 
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha, St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points........ 6 25 p m 
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco.......... 8 45 p m
*For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City,
	Provo, Nephi, Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points 7 30 a m
+Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus........... 7 45 a m
 *Trains south of Juab run daily except
Sunday,
+Daily except Sunday.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL, 
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sale
to all parts of the world.
	Pullman Palace Car ticket office.
	D. E. BURLEY.
	Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent
S. W. ECCLES,
	General Traffic Manager,
W. H. BANCROFT,
	Vice-President and Gen. Manager

	R.K.THOMAS
	Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.

	SALT LAKE CITY. 

	The Leading Retail 

Cash House

R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1898.		NOs. 11 & 12.


CONTENTS:
	The Castle Mountains—Lydia D. Alder Reap-
ers Club—J. A. Druce. Utah Woman’s Press
Club—Romania Bunnell Pratt. General Relief
Society Conference—E. B. Wells, Sec. A Tribute
to Aunt Melissa—J. P. M. Farnsworth. U. W. P.
C.—Ellis R. Shipp, Act. Sec. Ladies’ Semi-
Monthly Meeting. In Memoriam. National
Council of Women. Women Meet at Luncheon. 
	EDITORIAL:—Official Notice. Visit to Omaha
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Autumn—Nina Winslow Eckart. Is
the War Over—Letitia Williams.


AUTUMN.

Dismal, doleful katydid
	Sad is thy song this autumn night,
It speaks of death to the budding rose,
	It tells of the swallow’s homeward flight—
Yes every bud will droop and die,
And every bird will southward fly.

The bees that in the forest rove,
	Have gathered in their winter’s store,
And soon will hide themselves away,
	Where we shall hear their songs no more—
Happy, busy little bee,
Sadly do we part with thee.

The meadow brook must speed away
	And join the river deep and wide,
The squirrels must cease their merry play,
	And in the giant oak tree hide—
Frisking squirrel and babbling brook,
We give to both a last, long look.

Waving trees with golden garb,
	Softly sigh of dreary days,
And beyond the hill crest high
	See the veil of gathering haze—
Hark! I hear a mournful bell,
	’Tis sweet summer’s funeral knell.

Summertime with beauty rare,
	Decked with flowers rich and gay,
Strewing sunshine everywhere,
	Why—Oh! why canst thou not stay?
An echo through the mountain rings,
And sorrowfully this answer brings:

What we prize so quickly fades, 
	All we love must someday die,
Even thou must leave us soon,
	And soar above yon azure sky,
There summertime with garlands fair
A crown will make which thou shalt wear.
			NINA WINSLOW ECKART.


[Column 1]
THE CASTLE MOUNTAINS.
	The day is a clear and a beautiful one,
just as heralded by the early dawn whose
rosy tints are painted on the sombre gray
that envelopes the earth like the folds of a
mantle. Soon we are bestirring ourselves
making preparations for a long drive over
to Huntington in Emery Co. Fresh
breezes come stealing down from the moun-
tains with exhilarating effect as we present-
ly start out on our journey. All are so
cheerful and companionable, earnestly en-
gaging in thoughtful conversation, some-
times bantering about the good roads which

[Column 2]
we momentarily expect to find, although
they seem to ever evade us.
	Up the mountain, through the cañons,
down into the valleys, always failing to
find the best road, but being hopeful we
freely converse, scarcely realizing how long
the way we have to go.
	Here we are on the buckboard slats so
well and aptly named, as we are thorough-
ly bumped in riding over the many undula-
tions still searching for the best roads and
which ever one we take we sigh that we
had not taken the other; but as no break-
downs are in evidence we boldly defy fate
and ride on to victory or death.
	These are the Castle mountains! this
beautiful chain now full in view challenges
our admiration, and one could well believe
that just beyond those towering peaks lies
the famous Robbers Roost, where the rob-
bers securely retire up a a steep precipice,
and at the opening on top one man can
guard the haunts invested by the law
breakers.
	Turning a mountain that rises suddenly
a seeming city rises full in view. The
mountains are appropriately named, for
they indeed resemble castles such as we
read of in the old Fuedal times, whose em-
bankments rise almost perpendicularly, and
we can fancy the moat must be there and
where, the drawbridge being raised, they
are almost inpregnable to all enemies.
Golden shadows of light reflect below them
showing of their grand designs to perfec-
tion, and the traveler imagines that many
magnificent cities lie just over there. None
of their inhabitants are visible, but then
they may have slept so long that they have
forgotten to wake. Ages of silence have
passed, that now is interrupted by the en-
gine bell and the rattling of wheels. In
meditation we gaze on these vast and
wonderful piles of rocks and their solemn
silence guards well their secrets of long ago.
Were they once cities with high domes
pointing heavenward? They appear so
real that one does not readily recall the
wandering thoughts that turning backward
scan the past whose history these mute
sentinels guard so well. Some are high
and rugged, others square with sudden
defiles, others look like turrets where the
bells were wont to wildly ring for joy and
gladness, or to toll for loss or pain in sad-
ness.
	Pretty Huntington so well laid out comes
into view as we descend the mountains.
And such a warm welcome we receive,
and such true hearts we meet, making our
sojourn both pleasant and profitable. But
all friends must part and so we leave these
pleasant associations and return to loving
welcomes in Price, a growing and prosper-
ous town where only a dozen years ago
scarcely a house stood, yet now the water
flows on either side of the streets and rows
of shade trees adorn them. How pleasant
the memory of friends we met here! On a
Sabbath morn when a holy hush falls on
the weary heart we leave for Castle Gate.
parting with one of our companions whom
we miss. There by kindest invitation we
are to spend this lovely day.

[Column 3]
	The iron monster comes screeching
along, waiting a moment while we enter
then away for only a short ride. Twenty
minutes at Helper. What a lovely spot!
After crossing the bleak and dreary summit
it seems like a veritable oasis in a desert,
yet amid the grandest scenery. Lawns
tastefully laid out as green as in the spring- 
time, houses freshly painted with electric
wires attached, a large hotel, everything
in a bustle, escaping steam from the iron
horse, loading and unloading freight, then
onward again to visit at Castle Gate. We
are met at the depot by the Bishop and one
of his counselors also the Bishop’s wife,
all bidding us welcome. A glad touch of
hands and we have been long acquainted.
Here the well known Castle Gate coal is
mined in large quanties by these sturdy
Welsh people who dwell in these clean
looking red houses with white painted
window and door frames, grouped here and
there in the little valley. Early and late
these miners toil taking out the treasures
from these everlasting hills, which have
been hidden from time immemorial.
	Meeting with the Sabbath School we are
charmed with the interest manifested, and
feel proud of the superintendent who so
pleasantly invites us to visit at his home.
Meeting in the afternoon, the Lord’s Sup-
per so reverently administered amid the
glorious strains of melody from the Welsh
choir. Even as the surrounding mountains
soar high in triumph then descend in hu-
mility, so sang this choir in this lovely spot
so far away it seems from the haunts of
men.
	In the evening how the lurid flames
burst out from the coke furnace, gilding the
nearest mountains with deepest crimson.
At their feet the Castle river booms over
hugh bolders of rock, dashing the spray on
its unceasing journey to the sea. The wind
rises and shrieking blows over the moun-
tains, carrying the furnace flames high in
the air. Truly the scene is magnificent,
but wild beyond compare and one could
fancy it a view of Hades. Still the wind
rises; the reflections of the roaring flames
seem to beat out fury against the rugged
mountains which seem to restrain their
blazing advances. The storm bursts; the
wind rushing and sobbing, then roaring as
though destruction were near. The rain
descends, the wind more sullenly blows,
and though the rain subsides the wind
holds high carnival through the night.
Once more we view the scene so grand, yet
breathing a sense of solemn awe.
	On the morrow good bye again and fare-
well to these good and noble friends, and
may we meet again. The rushing train
slows up, we step aboard, then hence to the
city by the Great Salt Lake.

	As we travel on o’er [-]ife’s rough journey,
		How oft we cross the street Good Bye! 
	At morn clasp hands whose touch is gladness,
		At eve to part with many a sigh.

	But this is life, Good Bye, Good Bye,
		Ye first we’ve met, e’er yet we part,
	To meet is joy, the parting’s pain,
		And presses heavy on the heart.


The time will come when no Good Byes,
	Will ever jar upon the ear;  
We’ll meet, we’ll meet with no farewells,
	Where never’s known the falling tear.
But on life’s way, steep mountains frowning,
	Bar the traveler from a world so fair;
Where o’er the summits bright, unchanging,
	Is the City Golden. May we meet up there.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
October, 1898.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
REAPERS CLUB.
	Extracts from the minutes of the Reaper’s
Club meeting held on the 12th of Septem-
ber, 1898, at the “Woman’s Exponent”
office:
	An interesting paper on the “Ruins of
Central America” was read by Mrs. J.
Druce. She stated that in 1839 Mr. J. L.
Stephens was intrusted with a special mis-
sion to Central America by President Mar-
tin Van Buren. He visited the ruins in
that country, including Copan, Chiapas,
Yucatan and others, Mr. Stephens found
on the left bank of the Copan river in Hon-
duras, an ancient and mysterious city situ-
ated about three hundred miles from the
sea.
	A Spanish historian of Guatemala stated
that in 1530 the Cacique of Copan and
others were engaged in a revolt against
Spanish rule, and being determined to sub-
due them the Spaniards laid siege to the
city known as Copan, which at that time
was one of the largest and most popular in
the kingdom. After a desperate battle the
Cacique and his auxiliaries being unable to
resist their foe retreated and left Copan to
its fate. The place described by this
Spanish writer must have had reference to
some other city, as the massive stone
structures and columns showed no signs
of any such battle having occurred.
	Francisco Fuentes mentioned that in the
year 1700 the great Circus of Copan still re-
mained entire. “At a short distance from
this stood a wall with a gateway and pas-
sage leading to two fine pyramids from
which was suspended a hammock contain-
ing two human figures. It appeared to be
entirely of one stone and of enormous
weight, yet was put in motion by the
slightest movement of the hand.”
	From 1700 until 1836 no mention had
been made of these ruins. In the latter
year Colonel Galendo under a commission
from the government of Central America
visited Copan and other ruins of that coun-
try, but of his report very little is known.
	In 1840 Mr. J. L. Stephens explored
some of those places especially Copan and
in order to save trouble with the natives
he pruchased from them about 6,000 acres
of land on which the ruins were situated.
The remains of Copan City extended for
two miles along a river of the same name,
and comprised the walls of a temple 62
feet long.”
	Mr. Stephens said: “Cutting our way
through dense woods we came to a square
column fourteen feet high and three feet on
each side, sculptured in very bold relief
from the base to the top. On the front
was the figure of a man curiously and rich-
ly dressed, whose face was evidently a por-
trait. The sides were covered with hiero-
glyphics. Before it and about three feet
away was a large block of stone, sculptured
with figures and supposed to have been an
altar.”

[Column 2]
	The hieroglyphics, figures, etc., found
among these ruins were beautifully carved
and of the finest workmanship.” These
and other discoveries prove that the people
who once occupied this American Conti-
nent were a cultured and enlightened race.
“The whole extent occupied by these remains
of a once great civilization was covered
with trees. Two of them were gigantic
ciebas over twenty feet in circumference,
binding down the ruins and shading them
with their branches. Who were the build-
ers of this city? Historians say that
America was peopled by savages, but such
a class never reared these structures. The
fine carving on stone was the work of an
enlightened race who must have been edu-
cated in the arts and sciences of their day.
The Indians were asked who made these
monuments, etc., and their answer was,
‘Who knows?’ At one point on the south-
east corner of an enclosure is a massive
pyramidal structure 120 feet high.
	On the right are also remains of terraces,
pyramidal buildings and a gateway twenty
feet wide, the latter entering into a quad-
rangular area 250 feet square, two sides of
which are pyramids 120 feet high.
	At different points of this area are numer-
ous remains of sculpture. Lying on the
ground was a remarkable portrait, probably
of some king or chieftan. The expression
was noble. Near this stood a column alone
with its face to the east. It was 13 feet
high. 4 feet front 3 feet deep and sculp-
tured on all four sides. Originally it was
painted or enameled red, the color being
still visible.
	At a distance of perhaps 8 feet was another
large, elaborately sculptured stone with
rows of hieroglyphics on three of its sides. 
	Following the wall was still another of
the same size and similar in appearance.
	Turning north on the left was found a
high pyramidal structure. The range of
ruins continued on this side for about 400
feet, then turned at right angles to the left
and ran to the river, joining the other ex-
tremity of the wall at which the survey
commenced.
	There was another monument of differ-
ent shape, being larger at the top than be-
low, and the carvings on that was in low
relief. It alao had hieroglyphics.”
	Near the latter obelisk they found a very
remarkable altar, which stood on four globes
cut out of the same stone from which the
other portion of the structure was made,
the sculpture on this being in bas relief.
It was the only specimen of that kind of
carving found at Copan, all the others were
in bold relief. “This altar was six feet
square and 4 feet high, the top being di-
vided into 36 tablets inscribed with hiero-
glyphics, which probably recorded the his-
tory of great events in the lives of that
people. On each of the four sides of this
altar were carved four figures. The two
principal personages were on the west side
and facing each other. The serpent was
introduced in sculpture, reminding one of
the Egyptian methods of honoring their
heroes or kings. The head dresses were
curious and complicated, and the figures on
the altar all had breastplates.
	One of the two principal of these held in
his hand an object which seemed to be a
sceptre, and each of the others was hold-
ing something which might have been a
weapon of war, but if so, it was the only
representation of that kind of weapon found
in Copan; therefore, the supposition is that
they were a peaceful people.

[Column 3]
	The other courtyard was nearer the
river and probably may have been the
great circus mentioned by Fuentes, but in-
stead of being circular it was rectangular—
140 feet long and 90 feet broad, with steps
on all sides. It was more probably a por-
tion of the temple, and perhaps had been
the scene of imposing religious ceremonies.
There was found among Copan’s ruins a
small death’s head made from a fine green
stone (jadeite) and beautifully carved.
	How large stones were transported over
irregular surfaces for long distances, and
especially how one of them was set on a
mountain 2,000 feet high is a problem im-
possible for us to discover, or even, con-
jecture. At one point in a ravine leading
towards the river was a gigantic block
much larger than any seen in the city, and
was probably on its way there when the
labors of the workmen were suddenly ar-
rested.” Perhaps the history of the peo-
ple is engraven on their monuments etc.,
but who shall read them.
	These works were strange in design, ex-
cellent in sculpture, rich in ornament and
different from that of any people now known.
	Mr. Stephens made especial inquiry for
the stone hammock mentioned by Fuentes
but failed to find it, although it may still
be there broken and buried. A priest told
Mr. Stephens that he had seen it, and an
Indian also stated that it had been entire
two generations back.
	The existence of these ruins was first
made known to the world through the
writings of Mr. Stephens and the drawings
which accompanied them, by Mr. Cather-
wood. The latter gentleman was with Mr.
Stephens in Central America.
				J. A. DRUCE, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
 
		HENRIETTA STANDAGE.

	Died at Mesa City, Oct. 11, 1898, af er an illness
of some days, Henrietta Standage, wife of Henry
Standage one of the Mormon Battalion, and
daughter of Noah Rogers, one of the first mis-
sionaries to the Sandwich [-]sl[-]nds,and his wifeEda
Rogers. Deceased was born May 30, 1832, at
Shelbyville, Portage Co , Ohio. Born at so
early a period she passed through every principal
evolution of the Church  experience from the
day of her birth until the day of her death. She
came to Utah in 1850 and was married to Henry
Standage in 1851, with whom she shared in the
privations and toils of Utah’s early pioneers, and
to whom she bore a family of ten children. In the
year 1880 she emigrated from Utah to Arizona.
On her arrival in Mesa, Arizona, with her family
she joined the Relief Society in Alma ward, and
in 1883 she was voted in a first counselor in the
Relief [-]ociety of which she has been a faithful
member attendin every duty devolving upon her
and always on hand to help to relieve the sick or
those in distress; and as stated by her Bishop and
each who spoke at her funeral, Sister Standage
was a live member of the Church, was faithful to
every duty and calli g. From age, experience
and good works she has gone to her rest as a
veteran in the Church of God, leaving a veteran
husband with eight living children, forty-four
[-]randchildren and four great grandchildren to
bear her name in honor and blessing through all
generations of time.
	A long cortege of loving kindred and friends
followed her remains  to the grave to await a re-
union of loved ones in that sweet bye and bye.

	   "Dearest moth r thou hast left us,
			And thy loss we deeply feel,
	    But ’tis God that hast bereft us,
			He can all our sorrows heal.
	    Yet again we hope to meet thee,
			When the day of life is fled,
	    When in heaven with joy to greet thee,
			Where no farewell tear is shed.”

			     ANNA KLEINMAN, Pres.
				     SOPHRONIA A. STEWART, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IS THE WAR OVER?

They say that peace has been proclaimed
	And the dreadful war is o’er,
And the chime of bells the glad news tells
	As it wafts from shore to shore.
The shouts of acclamation rise
	From every heart and tongue,
Of the deeds of valor of our men
	And the noble work they’ve done.

They have counted up the men that fell
	On each conflicting side;
And as results are brought to light
	They smile with National pride— 
As figures do not make mistakes
	But counteth all things plain, 
So we find but few of our boys in blue,
	Were numbered with the slain.

And from the facts as claimed above
	Expressions have been free, 
That from the first no land could claim, 
Such wondrous victory,
Success at[-]ended every move, 
And not by cha[-]ce they say,
But Providence did intervene
	And lead them on their way.

But bear with me and I will dare
	A protest to main[-]ain,
And think it far too soon to count
	The number of the slain,
As there are still, and yet may be
	More added to the dead,
Such is the news that greets our ears
	As the papers o’er are read. 
Oh! piteous sight on those cots laid low
	Those once brave, stalwart forms,
Who faced the dangers day and night
	Through scorching heat and storms.
Seventy hours ’tis said they fought, 
Almost unceasingly,
With purely true, ueselfish aim
	In the cause of liberty.

Oh! do not shout aloud too soon
	Nor count the victory won; 
Till each mother’s boy is in her arms
	That death don’t claim its own;
For there are weapons worse by far 
Than swords that hew men down,
And aggravate their sufferings more 
As fever, chills and wounds. 
LETITIA WILLIAMS.
October 14, 1898.


[Column 1]		
UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB.

	PRESIDENT'S FAREWELL ADDRESS.

	It seems only a short time ago that I had
the honor conferred upon me of being
elected president of the U. W. P. club
	In retrospective resume many excellent
articles of poetry and prose rise on my horo-
scope, shimmering with brilliant gems of
thought which have gladdened the hearts
and enriched the minds of our members.
	In November our hospitable member,
Mrs.Clarence M. Bradley, entertained us at
her pleasant home where we listened to
Thanksgiving stories of ye olden times and
a pretty original one by Mrs. E. B. Wells,
the evening winding up in a blaze of glory,
eating golden pumpkin pie and sipping the
nectar of the orient, delicious coffee.
	In December we wandered far in thought
journeying over to old, old China, taking a
bird’s eye view of these ancient and
unprogressive people with queues and queer
mode of life religious and moral; who bit-
terly resist any innovation of modern ways
and .ideas. But the fiat had gone forth and

[Column 2]
China too must cast her old traditions upon
the highway to be crushed under the wheels
of the 19th century car of progress filled
with new ideas. The isles of the sea can-
not escape the keen eye of adventure and
they too must come into broader walks of
intelligence. The interesting article on
Polynesia was a report of actual experiences
and eye witness of pictures of the isles of
the Pacific ocean as seen by the reader’s
husband in his great trip around the world.
This and other papers was illustrated by
specimens and trophies from the island and
the far off Indies gathered while in those
lands.
	In January in the very pleasant room in
which we are now assembled a motion was
made and carried that the club join the
General Federation of Clubs. We then
took a trip in our mind's eye to Germany
and looked over her picturesqe country and
peeped into the lives of many of the “Nota-
ble men and women” of that land.
	That night a deep laid and mysterious
conspiracy was completed which ended in
something of a tempest, but loving friends
tried and true held steadfast on their way
and on Feb. 26 a large company assembled
at Dr. E. R. Shipp’s residence where an
ovation was given Mrs. E. B. Wells as a
surprise. It was in honor of the coming
out of her sweet book of poems styled
“Musings and Memories.”
	The crowning expression of our appre-
ciation of her book was the presentation of
our book to her. In this book each leaf re-
flected personally the love and good wishes
of a friend, in original or selected prose or
poetry, with somewhere on the leaf a quo-
tation from her book and also adorned with
beautiful hand painted flowers, expressing
the feelings and tastes of the giver of the
leaf. There are nearly one hundred leaves
in the book, making an unique and costly 
memento of the birth of her brain-child and
also of the seventieth year of her life.
	In March the club had the rare honor to
entertain the world renowned author, F.
Marion Crawford, at a reception they gave
March 22, at the residence of Hon. Spencer
Clawson, the Bee Hive House, Miss Claire,
the young and pretty hostess, making
everything pleasant and beautiful for the
occasion.
	 On March 6 the club met instead of Feb-
ruary 28, when we enjoyed a word pano-
rama of France and were highly entertained 
with short histories of some of her famous
men and women.
	March 31 our program consisted of an in-
teresting paper on Portugal and an eloquent
plea for “Cuba Libre.”
	In April, the month of sunshine and
showers “so full of sweet variety,” the life
and arduous labors of our spirit friend Miss
Frances E. Willard was ably presented and
discussed or new light added to as occurred
to the minds of the members. Also an im-
pressive paper recounting the life of the
brave Zola and a scathing, prophetic poem
styled Hispania.
	May 31 we heard of the Royal Family 
of Spain. Spain is fast going into oblivion
and we cannot weep, for her loss of power
is the gain of every released subject. With-
out a pang we say “au revoir” Spain.
	The month of June, beautiful month of
roses and every sweet perfume, seems as
barren of club history as the Desert of 
Sahara so far as I can find, and come to re-
member we had no meeting that month
but adjourned and went to the concert in
the Tabernacle. But a reception commit

[Column 3]
tee met the ladies from the north who were
on their way to Denver to the General
Federation and gave them a trolley ride and
otherwise entertained them while birds of
passage.
	In July your president received a letter to
the club from Second Vice-President Helen
V. Kimball dated July 8, Alvalon, Catalina
Island, California, Hotel Metropole. How
delightful it would be if the club could
take an outing to Catalina Island and look
through the glass bottomed boat at the
beauties and wonders of the sea.
	On July 30, the regular club day,we had
a most instructive paper on the origin,
work and purpose of the Red Cross Society,
and one on Modern Warfare.
	August 8 was made a most auspicious
and long to be remembered day to your presi-
dent by the members tendering her a most
happy surprise. The most kindly solici-
tude was expressed for her welfare as she
silently wends her way down the shady
side of life, having just left behind her the
59th milestone. A beautiful medalion 
picture of Queen Louise among her people,
together with many most beautiful flowers
were presented to her, which strongly im-
pressed her that life is still sweet amidst the
love of friends and lovely flowers, and that
there is much time left to smooth the pil-
low of sorrow and pain and to comfort the
hearts of the unfortunate.
	No club meeting was held this month an
adjournment having been decided upon un-
til September 30.
	The club members had decided to take an
outing to Saltair in August, but the gods of
Neptune willed differently and we went in
September, the very last day of the season.
There are often two good opportunities, the
first and the last, we at least had a good
one, a perfect day. The few members who
were in town went and lunched together
and had the sweet pleasure of hearing read
a word-bejewelled, poetic phantasy called
“Beautiful Saltair,” written for the club by
our secretary, Mrs. M. A. Lambert.
	On September 30, was rendered an ex-
tremely interesting paper on the sad life
and tragic death of Empress Elizabeth of
Austria. Her life is a most striking illu-
stration that neither wealth nor position can
of itself give happiness.
	Tonight, October 31, 1898, I wish to ex-
press in my farewell to you my heartfelt
thanks for the universal kindness and help-
fulness shown me during the year past by
every member of the club, and I thank you
most cordially for the pleasure and educa-
tion which as president I have been the
happy recipient.
		ROMANIA BUNNELL PRATT.


Mrs. Margaret Black of Glasgow, Scot-
land, is a member of the city board of
education.
	"Current politics affect the lives and
homes of women at various points, from
the cellar furnace to the sons and brothers
in uniform. However closely a woman
may entrench herself in her home and pro-
claim her indifference to politics, the bur-
dens, penalties and results of politics will in
some way find her out. Law and govern-
ment are politics crystallized into power.
The quality of city and state laws and the
character of national policy are determined
by the elections and the men elected. The
mainspring of the whole complicated mech-
anism of American politics and government
is the ballot."


WOMANS EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $l.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pthe ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1898.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	At the regular annual business meeting
of the National Woman’s Relief Society
held in the Assembly Hall in this city on
Monday, October 3, at 2 p. m., after con-
siderable discussion of the financial ques-
tion how to provide ways and means for
expenses, Mrs. Zina Young Card suggested
that a day be set apart for a gathering of
the Society and that each member pay on
that particular day ten cents, and mentioned
one or two important dates; it was finally
decided to hold this gathering March 17,
and the following motion was made by
Mrs. Julina L. Smith and seconded by
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson and others.
Mrs. J. L. Smith’s motion was that the 17th
day of March in each year (commemorating
the day of the first organization of the Soci-
ety in 1842) be set apart for a gathering of
the local Society in each ward in such way
as the respective society decides, and as
seems suitable to its circumstances; that each
member pay into the treasury ten cents on
that day to assist in defraying the neces-
sary expenses of the General Board in the
work of the Society. The motion was put
by the president and carried unanimously
by the members present at the meeting.
	On the following day at the regular
semi-annual meeting of the board of direct-
ors a majority of the members being present
in person, the motion made at the general
meeting on the day previous by Mrs. Julina
L. Smith who offered the motion repeated it
for the approval of the Board. Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, president of the Board,
stated the motion which had been seconded
by several members and it was carried unan
imously.
	(Signed) ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
						President.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
				Secretary.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO OMAHA.

NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
	It is known perhaps to most of our read-
ers that some Utah women went to Omaha
to attend the executive sessions of the
National Council of the Women of the
United States. It is not, however, widely
known how important a body the National
Council is consisting of great National
Associations, each of which wields a large

[Column 2]
influence in matters pertaining to the wel-
fare of this great nation.
	Many of our own women who are mem-
bers of the two organizations, the N. W. R.
S. and the Y. L. N. M. I. A., that are
affiliated with the National Council, think it
of little consequence and are hardly suffici-
ently interested to make themselves fami
liar with the standing of the National
Council, but if they could appreciate as
those do who know concerning the matter,
they would rejoice that such opportunities
of enlargement had opened for the women
of these associations, whose work has been
for years given along the lines of uplifting
and awakening thought and activity in all
that tends to the betterment of the condi-
tions of life in the home, in society, in the
state and in the world at large
	“Woman’s hour has struck” there is no
denying that truth. It is everywhere ap-
parent and the time is hastening on when
the women of this inter-mountain region
will be able to prove the great intellectual 
and moral as well as spiritual strength that
has come to them through the forces oper-
ating in their behalf to fulfill the prophecies
that have been made in years gone by with
regard to this chosen land.
	It is the intention of the writer at the
earliest possible opportunity to try to set
forth in an article devoted to the purpose
and merits of the National Council, its bear-
ing upon women, society, reform and all
the great agencies that move the world.
	The Utah women who went to attend the N.
C. W. executive session were Sisters Jane S.
Richards, E. B. Wells, Maria Y. Dougall,
Minnie J. Snow, Susa Young Gates, Joseph-
ine R. West and Margaret A. Caine.
	The first business session opened Monday
morning October 24, at 10 a. m., at which
time after preliminaries, roll call, minutes
and financial statements, questions of im
portance were considered and discussed.
	1.	“Shall the next triennial which is to
be convened in 1899, sit in two houses?”
	2.	“Shall the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States unite in recom-
mending an amendment to the constitution
of the International Council of Women, the
object of which shall be to secure a more
direct representation of the work and inter-
ests of the separate organizations belonging 
to a national council in the International
Council?”
	On these questions those who represented
the two organizations affiliated with the
Council had the opportunity to speak. Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, proxie for the president
of the National Woman’s Relief Society,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells, the delegate, also
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, proxie for the
president of the Y. L. N. M. I. A., and
Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, the delegate
	At 3 p. m. Monday afternoon was the
formal opening of the Council.
	Prayer by the Rev. Gerard Andrews and
an address of welcome by Mrs Sawyer,
president of the Woman’s Department of
the Trans-Mississippi International Exposi-
tion; which was one of the best and most
classical addresses we have ever heard, and
the reading of it was like perfect music.
Response by Mrs. May Wright Sewall,
president of the National Council, who
sounded the keynote of the depths of the
Council idea in such a lofty and practical
manner as to awaken every thoughtful wo-
man to activity and call for the unlimited
reserve force in carrying forward the pur-
poses of this magnificent organization. In-

[Column 3]
troduction of presidents and delegates in-
cluding National organizations and Local
councils belonging to the National Coun-
cil, with five minutes response. Mrs. Jane
S. Richards presented in a very sweet,
modest and pleasant manner a brief greet-
ing from the N. W. R. S., and told of some of
the work of the Society. Mrs. Maria Y.
Dougall in a happy and characteristic man-
ner spoke for the young ladies in a few
choice words, rhythmically arranged and
clearly delivered. Utah may well be proud
of her women, both in appearance and the
manner of presenting subjects before an
audience.
	A reception was given the same evening
by the Woman’s Department of the Trans-
Mississippi and International Exposition
which most of the Utah people attended,
all were invited. We noticed Mr. and Mrs.
Dougall and daughter, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow,
Mrs. Susa Young Gates and others. It
was held in the parlors of the Church and
was a very brilliant social affair. The dec-
orations were pink and white roses and
chrysanthemums, refreshments dainty ices
and cakes. Everything was in elegant
style and excellent taste, there was no
over-dressing yet many brilliant costumes 
were worn and jewels flashed here and there
conspicuously.
	Tuesday morning at 9.30 executive ses-
sion, discussion after business on the resolu-
tion considering the care of dependent and
defective children, and whether there should
be a standing committee for that purpose,
also a resolution opposing the plan pursued
by many institutions that breaking up
families by removing the child from the
home and putting additional burdens upon
the community is not the best method, but
if not possible on account of environment
etc. to keep mother and child together, place
children in families instead of public insti-
tutions.
	These resolutions brought out many
thoughts and several able women spoke
with much tender feeling, and it seemed to
be the opinion of the majority that the
question be considered as settled that there
be a standing committee on this subject.
	The afternoon was taken by the lunch-
eon given by the Local Jewish Council, an
account of which will be found in another
column of this issue.
	The evening session was given to frater-
nal delegates with five minutes response
from each and reports of ten minutes from
organizations affiliated with the Council,
after which there were addresses of thirty
minutes on Total Abstinence, Purity and
Woman Suffrage and Society’s Duty to the
Scarlet Woman. This subject was dealt with
by Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, whom our
readers will remember paid us a visit last
year, and who is one of the most magnetic
and fascinating women who has ever graced
a public platform, and is intensely in
earnest upon this subject. Her speech from
first to last was a lofty and sublime appeal
to all women to lift the fallen whenever
and wherever possible and not forget the
blessed Savior’s example when He said,
“Go and sin no more,” and to insist upon
one standard of morality for both sexes.
	Wednesday, October 29, 9.30 a. m., was
occupied by ten minutes reports from or-
ganizations in the Council. The first given
was by Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, delegate of
the Y. L. N. M. I. A., who presented the work
on the highest intellectual and spiritual
plane, and gave to the theme her own lofty


and exalted word picture, bringing it in full
view to the audience. At 8 p. m. the same
evening among other reports given was the
N. W. R. S., by Mrs. E. B. Wells, and dur-
ing the reading the dear old flag with its
stars and stripes was brought in and the
audience rose en masse and sang America,
which was a very pretty incident.
	On Friday morning at 10 a. m. another
Utah woman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates,
read a paper “The Relation of Capital and
Labor as Applied to Domestic Service.”
The writer believes she may safely say this
paper attracted quite as much attention as
any other and was perhaps an unexpected
surprise to the women on the platform. As
a matter of course we women were all
very proud of Mrs. Gates brilliant effort, in
fact it was very apparent the Utah women
were not behind the times.
	There were many high-bred, intellectual
women from different parts of the country
new to the Council whose personality one
recalls with delight, among these we must
mention Miss Carty of Canada whose beau-
tiful presence bespoke the cultivation of
centuries, and Mrs. Richardson of Boston
whose address upon Citizenship and Loyal-
ty must be ranked as one of the very best
of the many magnificent speeches of the
week in the Council of which we shall treat
in another article more fully.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We are just in receipt of a postal card
from Jerusalem a souvenir of the visit of
the Emperor and Empress of Germany, on
which Madame Mountford writes among
other items, “Greetings to all friends in
Utah.”
	As Christmas is approaching it is well to
remind the public that we have for sale at
this office the book of poems “Musings and
Memories” by E. B. Wells, which is a
suitable holiday gift-book and should be in
every library of the Y. L. M. I. A., cloth
cover $1.25, dainty binding $1.50, moroco
$2.00. This book is handsomely bound and
contains a steel engraving of the author.
	A new book for the holidays will soon be
ready entitled “Aunt Em’s Stories” includ-
ing “Hephzibah,” which was enthusiastic-
ally received when published as a serial ten
years ago, also “Aunt Esther’s Sweetheart,”
“Some Old Love Letters,” “Emily Hamil-
ton’s Christmas,” “He Cometh Not,” and
several others equally as interesting and all
founded on facts.
	President Franklin D. Richards and his
wife, President Jane S. Richards, organized
a Relief Society in Omaha on Tuesday,
October 25, at the residence of one of the
local Elders. There were present also the
presiding Elder of the mission, Elder R.E.
Yeates and Elder Hatch, both of Logan,
Utah, also Bishop Barton and wife of Kays-
ville, and Mrs. Josephine R. West, one of
the General Board of the Primary Associa-
tion, and Mrs. E. B Wells who arrived just
before the meeting closed. Full particulars
will be published.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE.

NATIONAL WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The October conference of the General
Conference of the National Woman’s Re-
lief Society was held in the Assembly Hall
it in this city, October 5, 1898, commencing

[Column 2]
at 10 a. m., President Zina D. H. Young
presiding. Meeting opened with singing
“Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by President
Jane S. Richards Singing “How firm a
foundation. Roll called, nineteen Stakes
responded. Minutes of the morning meet-
ing of the April conference read and ap-
proved.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke a few
words of cheer and comfort to the sisters
and bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Latter-day work, and she said we had
but just commenced our work in this soci-
ety and spoke of the time when the wo-
men of the Church were first organized and
the progress that bad been made, yet felt
that we had only made a start. She spoke
further upon humility and overcoming by
the power of the testimony of the truth un-
til when we shall be able to sing the song
of the redeemed.
	President Jane S. Richards urged the
sisters to be faithful in attending their
meetings and conferences, thought it both
a duty and a pleasure, referred to the genu-
ne help the society had been to the breth-
ren in their respective wards, felt the sis-
ters did step right out as though they were
Elders in Israel, dwelt most earnestly upon
the grain question, said we needed more
granaries and as we had assisted in so many
places to help build ward houses we ought
to have help to build granaries, quoted
Bishop Hunter on the grain question and
knew he was prompted by the spirit of the
Lord when he urged the sisters to take care
of the wheat, there is no danger of having
too much and the time is sure to come
when it will be needed even if we do have
bounteous harvests. Advised the sisters to
hold their meetings at the time appointed,
the angels might be there waiting. Sister
Richards also spoke upon kindness and for-
giving each other, let us try and bear our
trials and be thankful we have a place with
His people.
	Sister Zina said: “They that, feared the
Lord spoke often one to another and the
Lord hearkened and heard and said they
shall be mine when I make up my jewels.”
Counselor B. W. Smith referred to the
bounteous harvest and the great need of
laying up grain she urged the sisters to
look well after the sick, afflicted and dying
—when they pass away see that everything
is done properly, and teach purity, truthful-
ness, virtue and industry, don’t go outside
of your income, don’t go into debt. It
will not be long before we who are advanc-
ing in years will meet our loved ones and
enter into joy. “I have great joy in my
labors in the Temple, and sisters prepare
yourselves to work for your dead, may
you be inspired to do this.”
	President F. A Hammond represented
San Juan in the absence of his wife, the
president. The wheat question he thought
seemed to be the text, he thought it was
the proper subject for the time—bread is
the staff of life, the sisters in our Stake are
doing well with the wheat and when it is
not available are storing flour; this year the
earth smiles and responds beautifully to the
husbandsman, out of one crop of dry farm-
ing which seeded itself largely himself and
sons had raised 1900 bushels. The speaker
also alluded to the franchise and urged wo-
men to vote for good men and women who
will stand for the home, for virtue and
holiness, praised the sisters of that Stake for
their diligence and good works and in going
to their conferences when sometimes they

[Column 3]
had to travel fifty miles some of them to at-
tend. President Hammond spoke for the
“Woman’s Exponent,” said it ought to be
better sustained, felt every president and
every teacher in the society should take it
and read it, he enjoyed reading it and al-
ways had, knew people plead not being able
but he did not believe there was a woman
there who could not afford to take it, only
one dollar a year, this, he continued, is the
grandest and strongest organization we
have in these valleys, and let us sustain it
as we should.
	Brother John Beck thanked Sister Zina,
the president, for inviting him to speak.
in his remarks, after encouraging the sis-
ters in their good work, he said that it
seemed to him that the time had come when
the daughters of Eve were so that they were
doing as much as the sons of Adam, and he
thought that the marriage question was one
that women should settle. Made some
suggestions about the grain and the build-
ing of elevators in every Stake of Zion.
	Sister Orms spoke for Pocatello Stake
and the newness of the organization, only a
little over two months, knew they had a
good people, there were faithful sisters in
the society.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
President Hammond.
				E. B. WELLS, Sec.


A TRIBUTE TO AUNT MELISSA.

	Dear Aunt Melissa was the eldest daughter
of Cornelius P. and Permelia Darrow Lott.
Our grandparents were born in the state of
New York and were both of the old Rev-
olutionary ancestors who fought in battle
and held positions of trust in the Govern-
ment during its seven years struggle for
American independence. They were the
only ones of either family to join the
Church. Grandpa came of a fine old Dutch
family, and grandma of the early Puritan
stock. Grandpa moved to Pennsylvania
prior to his marriage, as did also the Dar-
row family. Aunt Melissa was born in
that state in Luzern Co., on the 9th of
February, 1823.
	People who knew her say she was a
beautiful, refined, intelligent girl; those
who knew her best loved her most. At
the age of nineteen years she was married
to the Prophet Joseph Smith and lived with
his wife Emma (whom she dearly loved) in
the “Nauvoo Mansion” until after the
prophet’s martyrdom. She then returned
to her father’s home, shared all the hard-
ships of the Latter-day Saints in their vari-
ed travels from state to state, suffering-
p[-]ivations of every name and nature un-
complainingly. Being the eldest of a fam-
ly of eleven children and her mother being
of a delicate organization her duties were
necessarily great, her patience often tried
and her physical cares many, yet she was
ever gentle, kind and cheerful under the
most trying circumstances. She came to
Utah with her parents in 1848 and married
Ira Willis with a perfect understanding that
she would be the prophet's wife in the
Great Beyond.
	Aunt Melissa had born to her seven chil-
dren, four sons and three daughters. Her
husband, two sons and two daughters pre-
ceded her to the other side. She left two
sons, one daughter, a host of grandchildren,
one sister, two brothers and many loved
relatives and friends who will miss her all
the time, for she was an exceptional wo-


man; one of great strength of character,
bright perception, pure, just, generous
principles. Her advice and example were
always for good, her every act displayed
the unselfish, noble womanhood; we all re-
garded her as one of nature’s grandest type
of heroines. From earliest infancy her life
has been one of sacrifice, privation, mental
and physical suffering, yet when others
complain we have heard her say many
times, “No I do not wish my life-trials
other than they are, ’tis best for God de-
signed it so or it would not be.” The
prophet promised her that in taking the
step with him in her girlhood “she should
be the savior of her father’s household.”
We all expect and have faith that this will
be fulfilled.
	Aunt was a true, consistent Latter-day
Saint, her last years were spent in comfort-
ing the aged and lonely and ministering to
the sick and afflicted. She was up to with-
in a few months of her death an active,
earnest worker in the Relief Society at Lehi,
Utah Co., and we believe one of the presid-
ing officers. She had done a great deal of
Temple work, made Temple suits, laid out
the dead and aided in every possible way
God’s children.
	To her immediate family she was a just,
loving, loyal, capable mother, sister and
friend, a peacemaker in very deed. Filled
with sterling integrity she died firm in the
faith of a glorious resurrection. She was
buried on the 15th of July, (in her seventy-
fifth year) in the Salt Lake cemetery on
the lot where her parents, husband and
children are sleeping. 
	God grant we may follow in the path she
has left behind, keep firm in the faith of
Christ’s Gospel, thereby prove worthy to
meet her on the other shore when our time
shall come to go.
			Affectionately
				J. P. M. FARNSWORTH,
					139 Brigham Street.
	Oct. 28, 1898.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C. 

	The annual meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held at the residence of L. B. Bunnell,
Oct. 31, 1898, President R. B Pratt in the
chair. Opening prayer was offered by Mary
A. Freeze. Roll call was answered by
sentiments from Lydia D. Alder’s poems,
followed by instrumental music by the
hostess. Unfinished business was called
for and that of incorporation was again
postponed. The president said that a
business meeting had been called in regu-
lar order and the officers for the ensuing
year nominated. The question of balloting
or voting in the new members was dis-
cussed at some length and finally Dr. Shipp
made a motion that we elect our new
officers by vote; this motion carried unani-
mously and the president then presented
the following names which were elected
without a dissenting voice:
	Ella W. Hyde, president; Isabella
Cameron Brown, 1st vice-president; Caro-
line C. R. Wells, 2nd vice-president;
Aimed Schiller, secretary; Ruth M. Fox,
assistant secretary; Lydia D. Alder, cor-
responding secretary; Edith R. Lovsey,
assistant corresponding secretary; Margaret
A. Caine, treasurer; Ellis R. Shipp, histor-
ian; Helen V. Kimball, Dr. Ellis. R. Shipp,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt program committee.
	Miss Raleigh then sang in a very rich, full


voice "The Miller’s Daughter." The
president then made a very eloquent fare-
well speech, giving an interesting word
picture and resume of the year’s work, after
which the following program was rendered:
Miss Kimball gave a most interesting ac-
count of the late Queen of Denmark and her
beautiful daughters. Mrs. Alder also gave
some pleasing reminiscences of the king’s
court and the Princess Alexandria who
created a revolution among the nobility re-
garding children. She took her babies
everywhere and when she attended grand
dinners, "entertained the company with
what the baby said." Miss Kimball opened
the discussion on the Dreyfus case and read
some newspaper clippings. The treasurer,
Mrs. Harker, then read the report for the
past year which was very satisfactory.
This was followed by a very touching song
in the very sweet voice of Mrs. Maggie Bas-
sett. Then with the brilliant lights extin-
guished and in the soft glow of the grate
fires Mrs. Ruth M. Fox related some very
thrilling Hallowe’en stories, greatly to the
amusement of her listeners. Mrs. Mamie
Stringham favored the company with classic-
al music and the refreshments that followed
were of the same order of excellence.
	A vote of thanks was [-]endered the hostess
for her kindly entertainment and to the
president for her very efficient service to
the club during the year, and the new
officers were duly installed.
ELLIS R. SHIPP, Act. Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall, on Saturday, September 17, 1898,
Counselor B. W. Smith presiding in the
absence of President Horne. Singing “O,
say what is truth.” Prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe. Singing “We thank Thee
O, God for a prophet.”
	Sister Smith said that Sister Eliza R.
Snow had said that there would be a soci-
ety formed that would be as the school of
prophets to the sisters. Observed that she
was not as punctual as she was in her
younger days, but she always enjoyed the
meetings and the testimonies of the sisters.
We should make good resolutions when we
meet together and carry them out in our
lives.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said these meet-
ings had done her a great deal of good, she
had tried hard to overcome her timidity and
had found this was a good school for wo-
men. Spoke of the many changes that had
come to us, and of the death of our beloved
President Woodruff. She had been well
acquainted with him, could rememember
when she was a child of his honest and
honorable character. Thought we should
all have the love of Christ in our hearts and
not criticise or backbite each other, and
that the example that parents should set for
their children should be exemplary. We
mothers should know where our children are.
	Sister Howe said she would like to speak
so as to be heard if possible, and would say
what the Lord dictated. She always taught
the children when she presided in the Pri-
mary not to steal or be disobedient, she felt
anxious for the children of Zion. The
Prophet Joseph had said the Relief Society
should assist in correcting the morals, we
should exercise faith and grow stronger.
Alluded to President Woodruff, what an
exemplary man he was in all things, men-

[Column 2]
tioned a sermon of John W. Taylor’s in
which he said that spiritual gifts did and
must exist in the Church, and we should
live to exercise these gifts. Let us not be
guilty of having any gifts from Satan, let
no contention exist among us but be filled
with charity and love.
	Sisters Rawlings and Brown and others
bore testimony to the goodness of God and
said many excellent things, rejoiced in
spiritual gifts and the work in the Temple,
felt thankful for such blessed opportunities.
	Sister Margaret P. Young said she
thought the sisters who had expressed
themselves were very useful, for their
words were to the effect that they were in-
terested in each other and striving to do
each other good. Thought we should pray
for and appreciate those sisters who presided
over us as they were growing aged in body,
but were still filled with ambition for the
work of God. Felt that the golden mo-
ments that God grants to us should be
spent in getting precious knowledge.
	Sister Jane M. E. Young was called up-
on by Counselor B. W. Smith and gave
some of her experiences in visiting the
State Penitentiary, she thought we should
correct all evil and profanity we hear among
children, more especially boys are inclined
to this evil. Spoke of President Woodruff
and the counsel he had given her, what a
comfort his words had been. Alluded to
his economy of time. “Dear sisters, I do
pray that we will be able to train and
rear our children in a pleasing manner unto
God; this is my humble prayer.”
	Sister Hyde said she wished to bear her
testimony of the goodness of God, said He
was good and that His eye was over us.
	Other sisters also bore testimony and ex-
pressed many good wishes. Counselor
Smith said she hoped we would all meet
again in two weeks and bring our neigh-
bors with us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “The time is far spent.” Benediction
by Sister Annie T. Hyde.
JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec. pro tem.

	Minutes of Ladies Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall,
Saturday, October 1, 1898, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Opened by singing
“Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer by
Counselor Webb. Singing “O my Father.”
Minutes of meetings held August 28 and
September 17 were read and approved.
	Sister Stevenson felt to thank God for
the rain, also for the opportunity of meet-
ing with the sisters. Realized that the
spirit of God was present and if we all en-
couraged that spirit we could have a grand
time, for the Lord has said “Where two or
three shall meet together in my name, I
will be in their midst and that to bless
them.” Spoke briefly on the death of our
beloved President Woodruff, said how meek
and humble he always was and exhorted
the sisters to follow his example. Did not
know the reason President Horne was ab-
sent, perhaps it was due to the inclemency
of the weather, hoped she was not sick.
Gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters.
	Sister Jane James praised the Lord that
she had seen the Prophet Joseph Smith and
that he had blest her. Spoke also of the
kindness shown to her by Sister Emma
Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Desired to be humble as a little child, that
she might be worthy to enter one of the
mansions that the Lord had prepared.


Sister Webb said we were living in
momentous times, exhorted the sisters to
live so that we might avoid the sins and
evils that surround us and prayed that the
young people might be preserved from the
snares that beset them. Testified that the
Relief Society had been a great blessing to
her.
	Sister Parkes of Idaho, though a com-
parative stranger in our midst could testify
to the truth of the work. She was well
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Remembered the time the Relief Society
was organized, heard the prophet say if
the sisters would be faithful that the angels
would visit them. Told them that the
Lord was no respector of persons, but if
they would always live near to Him He
would grant their desires. She had proven
his words true and prayed that she might
always be among the faithful workers of the
Relief Society.
	Sister Longmore rejoiced in the work and
hoped to prove faithful to the end.
	Sister Rossiter said the Lord had be-
stowed upon her many blessings and she
desired to spend her life in His service.
Spoke of the time when she received the
Gospel, desired to do all she could for her
dead relatives.
	Sister Julia Golightly was trying to
overcome her weaknesses that she might
gain the approval of her Heavenly Father.
	Sister Mary P. Silver spoke of the joy
she felt in the everlasting Gospel, she had
left all for it and the Lord had blest her
abundantly.
	Sister Eliza Rossiter was thankful for
the Gospel, knew it was true and hoped to
prove faithful to the end.
	Sister Alder said she had received many
blessings from her Heavenly Father, had
also many trials, yet she tried not to com-
plain. She often wondered what we should
do without the Gospel, we should surely
faint by the wayside. “Sisters let us serve
the Lord through evil and through good
report and ever hold on to the iron rod.”
Encouraged the sisters to trust in the Lord
and not think too much of their sorrows,
to remember the Lord is on our side all the
time.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “The God we adore.” Benediction by
Hannah M. Wright.
		HANNAH M. WRIGHT, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

MARIA CROMPTON.
	Sister Maria Crompton, wife of Robert Cromp
ton died at her home in American Fork on
Thursday, October 13, 1898, after a long and pain-
ful illness of nearly two years, the cause being
dropsy superinduced by heart trouble. She was
born April 8, 1834, at Withyham, Sussex, Eng-
land, joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in New York City and came to Utah in
1861. She was married to Brother Crompton in
1862 and has made her home in American Fork
ever since. She was the mother of seven chil-
dren six of whom survive her, three sons and
three daughters, also a number of grandchildren.
	Sister Crompton was a teacher in the Relief
Society for a number of years, always w[-]lling to
do her part in the reat work that devolves
upon the sisters in this calling, was faithful in at-
ending her meetings as long as she was able and
rejoiced in the testimony of Jesus. She was pa-
tient and long suffering during her illness and had
unbounded faith in the ordi[-]ance of the Church
for the healing of the sick, always obtaining re-
lief whenever she was administered to by the
Elders. She was a devoted wife and mother, al-
ways working diligently to set a good example
for her children and to educate them in the prin-


ciples of life and salvation as well as to fit them to
battle with the trials of life. Great credit is due
to her children who worked so untiringly in her
behalf during her illness, never wearying in their
labor of love. May the Lord support them and
their father upon whom the loss falls so heavily,
and may He help them to realize that all is well
and though her presence will be sadly missed in
the home circle, yet she may be a link in the
chain that binds them to the Eternal Father.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
	JANE C. HINDLEY,
	SYLVIA MISENER,
				Committee.


[Column 1]	
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN.

PRESIDENT SEWALL’S ADDRESS.
	The stirring events of the last six months
have been so emphasized on public opinion
that they seem to have occupied the entire
year. The din of war is wont so to deafen
the public ear that the quiet activities of a
war period are to it inaudible. There can
have been no time when war did not involve
the women of countries engaged in it; for
even before women had any participation in
public affairs the wars that drew men from
their homes increased the importance of wo-
men in private affairs as their industrial
activity was augmented perforce by the very
events which made the greatest drafts upon
their hearts. At no period of stress in our
country’s history have the public services
of American women in various fields been
so conspicuous as during the last six
months. The services of Miss Helen
Gould in pecuniary gifts, or Clara Barton
with the sign of the Red Cross, of the hun-
dreds of nurses who have shunned no
danger of climate and no discomfort of
camp, of the women war correspondents
who, let it be hoped, have contributed no
yellow pages to the journals of the day,
only conspicuously illustrate the various
ways in which hundreds of thousands of
women have, on a smaller scale, contributed
to their country’s strength.
	While it was still hoped that war might
be averted the National Council responding
to the well known desire of President Mc-
Kinley, added to the numerous petitions
that went out from brave and loyal
men and women from all over the country,
its petition representing the desire of over
1,000,000 women, to avoid war if possible.
That no one desired to avert the catastrophe
more than President McKinley his whole
course of conduct showed; that he was
grateful to those who attempted to hold the
public mind calm and to afford time for dip-
lomatic intervention, his response to such
petitions amply proves. It may well be
believed that from the day war was declared
those who have tried in whatever circle
they were, to avert it were most fervently
grateful for the magnanimity constantly
shown by our chief executive, the human-
ity manifested by our generals and the hero-
ism demonstrated on land and sea by our
countrymen.
THREE NEW COMMITTEES.
	Three most important standing commit-
tees have been added during the last year to
our groups of committee workers. The
committee on social peace and international
arbitration, with the Countess Cora Slo-
comb di Brazzi at its head. The sudden
call to arms but served to emphasize the
need of the committee and to show that
such a committee should long ago have
been organized and been active in the diffu-

[Column 2]
sion of its doctrines. The committee on
social purity, with Rev. Anna Garlin
Spencer at its head. The formation of
this committee is a declaration that the
National Council of Women of the United
States is committed to that doctrine of the
common moral standard for men and wo-
men so forcibly expressed in the well known
phrase, “A white life for two.” The
committee on domestic relations under the
law, whose chairman is Miss Octavia Wil-
liams Bates of Detroit. It has for its
specific work such a codification of the laws
bearing upon domestic life as will show the
contradiction, existing among our states and
the manner in which these contradictions
work injustice to individuals and evil to
the community.
	During the year but one national organ-
zation of women has entered the council
ranks—the Rathbone Sisters—the second of
the great orders that have come in, the
Ladies of the Maccabees being the other
one.
	The growth through the multiplication
of local councils is not less important. The
largest formed during the year is that at
New Orleans, which already includes in its
membership 114 local organizations. Suc-
cessful initiative has been taken in organiz-
ing a local council in New York City.
	Among the organizations that for the first
time send fraternal delegates to our sessions
are the Congress of Mothers and the George
Washington Memorial Association.
	During the last year the fraternal rela-
tions with Canada, which have from the
beginning of council work been fostered in
the two countries, have been emphasized.
WOMEN AND WAR.
	In these days we are continually hear-
ing of the new role which the United States
is to play among the nations of the earth
We are told that it will no longer do for
the United States to hold itself in isolation
from the rest of the world: that whether
it wishes it or not the nation is destined to
assume a place which will compel all other-
nations to reckon with it in the prosecu-
tion of any projects they may devise. Those
of us who truly believe that a perfect social
peace would make either a civil or a foreign
war impossible must still rejoice in every
good that seems to have resulted from the
recent war. If by it our country shall
be lifted out of a selfish materialism which
has engrossed it into a sense of its perman-
ent relationship with all the other nations
of the earth this must be counted a great
good. But we believe it is its happy des-
tiny to prove its relationship to the nations
of the world and its consciousness of its
kinship, not by becoming a terror because
of its invincible navy, invulnerable ships
and unmatched soldiery, but rather be-
cause of its sense of human equality, which
is the inevitable outcome of a true sense of
human kinship.
	Our country has been isolated by its
size and by the satisfaction which it derived
from contemplating its own dimensions.
Its sense of international relationship will
be quickened by a sense of the insignificance
of size when disconnected from contents
and quality. Of this new sense of kinship
among the nations, which indisputably
has been quickened into consciousness by
the recent war, the council was a forerun-
ner. Through the International Council of
Women this sense of relationship among
the nations has already assumed organic


form, and, as is well known, organic form
is essential to conscious and responsible
activity.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN MEET AT LUNCHEON.

BRILLIANT COMPANY.
	The luncheon and reception tendered by
the local Council of Jewish Women to the
visiting delegates of the National Coun-
cil of Women at the Metropolitan club on
Oct. 25, was a most brilliant entertainment.
It is seldom that one cit[-] has the pleasure
of entertaining so many distinguished wo-
men as are sojourning in the Gate City.
The spacious hall which was well adapted
for the purpose of entertaining on a grand
scale, was magnificent with myriads of
electric lights and flowers, and exquisite
confections in costuming, scintillating with
gems, vied with natural fiowers in the
adorning of these women, who although
they dive deep into reforms advanced to
elevate humanity and raise the standard of
citizenship, do not despise the witchery of
becoming apparel the glitter of jewels and
perfume of flowers.
	For a short time the receiving matrons,
Mrs Belle A. Polack, Mrs. Simon Adamsky,
and Mrs. Moritz Meyer, stood in the hall.
Only there was nothing about it to suggest
a hall, as it had been em[-]owered with ex-
otics so that it might easily have been im-
agined a bower in some tropical isle.
Passing thence to the long dining room the
guests perceived that the floral decorations
had been managed with artistic restraint.
The tables were arranged in a geometrical
design and beautifully decorated with a rich
display of white and yellow chrysanthe-
mums. At the head of the banquet board
the five guests of honor sat. Mrs. Polack,
president of the local Council of Jewish
Women, in the center. On her right was
seated Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon of Chica-
go, on her left Mrs. May Wright Sewall of
Indianapolis. Miss Susan B. Anthony sat
next to Mrs. Solomon and Mrs. Draper
Smith was seated next to Mrs. Sewall.
	The out of-town guests who occupied
spaces about the board were: Susan B. An-
thony, Mrs. Hannah Solomon of Chicago,
Mrs. Simon of Kansas City, Mo., Mrs.
Rosenwasser of Cleveland, Mrs. Iesner of
Champaign, Ill., Mrs. Foster, Mrs. Kate
Barrett of Washington, D. C., Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, Mrs. M. Y. Dougall of Salt
Lake City, Mrs. Henry Hirsch of Des
Moines. Mrs Charles Mayer, Miss Mayer
of Lincoln, Mrs. Oberfelder of Sidney, Mrs.
Hirshland of Des Moines, Mrs. Lipals, Mrs.
Simon, Mrs. Ryder of Kansas City, Mrs.
Sewall of Indianapolis, Mrs Barbe of Chi-
cago, Mrs. Thershein, Mrs. Schulman, Mrs.
Fuhrman of Seattle, Mrs. Hollister of De-
troit, Mrs. Richards of Champaign, Mrs.
Moog, Mrs. Anna Shaw of Philadelphia, Mrs.
Frances Beauchamp of Lexington, Ky., Mrs.
Louise B. Robbins of Adrian, Mich., Mrs. L.
S. Lieberman, Mrs. Simon of Kansas City,
Miss Octave Williams Bates of Detroit, Mrs.
Newberry Adams of Dubuque.
GREETINGS TO THE GUESTS.
	In opening the post-prandial exercises
Mrs. Clara Rosewater, toastmistress, greet-
ed the guests, saying: "At no time in the
history of Omaha have so many brilliant
and talented women been with us. I there-
fore think it fitting that the session of the
Council of Jewish Women close with an ex-
pression of goodwill and fraternal feeling."

[Column 2]
She called the first toast of the afternoon,
"Welcome."
	Mrs. Belle Polack responded to this toast
in a happy manner, extending the most
cordial welcome to all.
	Mrs. Rosewater then said: "During the
last few years woman has steadily moved
on. She has advanced from the seclusion
of the past. The club is largely responsi-
ble for this."
	"What Clubbing has Done for Women"
was responded to by Mrs. H. F. Smith,
president of the Woman's Club of Omaha.
She spoke slowly and distinctly. "Club-
bing punishes," she said, “punishes for
past offences. We see our shortcomings in
the light of present study and regret times
wasted in youth. Clubbing injures physic-
ally unless taken in homeopathic doses.
To be serious it brings into our midst for
our enjoyment here today the leaders in the
world’s progress and thought.”
	“The Wonder of the Nineteenth Century:
the Fairest Work o[-] the Great Author”
was responded to by Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, and “Liberalism in Religion” by
Rev. Mary Gerard Andrews. "If we grow
intellectually we must grow into the
thought of the spirit,” said Mrs. Andrews,
“in the spirit of love. In spite of our dif-
ferences there is a large spirit of love and
good fellowship and this is the spirit of
liberal religion in our club.”
	Miss Susan B. Anthony was presented to
respond to the toast “Woman is man’s
Equal in Intellect, in Character His Su-
perior. She Needs no Eulogy. She
Speaks for Herself.” Miss Anthony was
heartily greeted as she arose to speak and
said: “The other half of genus homo is
making its appearance in the world. For
the last quarter of a century I have been
trying to impress upon the other half that
she has the inherent right to be equal to
the original half at the ballot box. I hope
to see the fruition of my labors.”
	Mrs. Leo Franklin responded to “Cas-
tles in the Air,” and Mrs. Hannah Solo-
mon “Why Omaha Needs a Jewish
Council.”


[Column 1]
[Union Pacific logo, shield with the following text written on it]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the left of the above logo]
SWIFT
AS

[to the right of the above logo]
THE
EAGL

	Denver is one day nearer Chicago to-day than
it was yesterday. This is the actual practical
effect of the fast mail trains inaugurated by the
North-Western and Union Pacific.—Chicago
Times Herald, Feb. 8, 1898.
"The Chicago Special"
Leaves Denver, 4:30 p m today.
Arrives Omaha, 7:00 a m tomorrow.
Arrives Chicago, 8:45 p m tomorrow.
	To the Chicago, Union Pacific and North-
western belongs the credit of inaugurating the
new fast train service between Denver and
Chicago.
	This new train is a triumph of modern rail-
roading. It consists of six magnificent cars:
Buffet, smoking and library car, with barber
shop, etc. Two splendid palace sleeping cars.
Reclining chair car. Dining car, meals a la
carte. Baggage car.
	This is the only train between Denver and
Chicago having the luxurious
........Buffet, Smoking and Library Cars.
	Westbound, "The Colorado Special" leaves
Chicago 10:00 a. m. arrives Omaha 11:55 p m, to-
day, and Denver 1:30 p m, tomorrow.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD-WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD

(In Effect July 17, 1898.

	Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:
ARRIVE.
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City
	and Ogden.........................3 10 p m
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco. Ogden and intermed-
	iate points.........................8 55 a m
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. 7 15 p m
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver and Ogden [-] 10 a m
*From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate points....6 20 p m
✝Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach......4 00 p m

DEPART.
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City. St. Louis, Ogden and
	Park City..........................7 00 a m
For San Francisco, Ogd[-]n, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points.8 05 a m
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha, St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points..............6 25 p m
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco................8 45 p m
*For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City,
	Provo, Nephi. Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points 7 30 a m
✝Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus.............7 45 a m
	*Trains south of Juab run daily except
[-]unday.
	✝Daily except Sunday.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL,
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sale
to all parts o the world.
	Pullman Palace [-]ar ticket office.
D. E. BURLEY.
Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent
S. W. ECCLES,
General Traffic Manager.
W. H. BANCROFT,
Vice-President and Gen. Manager

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1989.			
.


CONTENTS:
	Daughters of the Revolution—L. W. S. Marthas
and Marys Again—A. Snell. Thanksgiving Lo[-]g
Ago—E. B. W. Re[-]ief Soci[-]ty Reports. In
Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—Anniversary Celebration. An
Interesting Party. United in Marriage. Musings
and Memories. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Autumn Leaves—Bella E. Howell.
Eighty years—Lydia D Alder.


AUTUMN LEAVES.

Crimson, scarlet and yellow,
	Tumbling down from the trees,
Shimmering there in the sunshine,
	Tossed at will by the breeze.

Falling on Mother Earth’s bosom,
	Bedecking her gay autumn dress,
Spangling it over with jewels,
	As lightly her mantle they press.

Rolling in heaps all together,
	Then suddenly flying apart.
Surprised by the wandering zephyr,
	With confusion and hurry they start.

Then again over hill, dale and meadow,
	These butterflies born of the fall,
Go dancing, darting and fluttering,
	Obeying the wind fairy’s call;

Waving farewell to the summer,
	As the wind rudely bears them away,
Romping, roving and restless,
	Disdaining in one place to stay.

Beautiful leaves of the autumn,
	Brilliant with summer’s last ray;
Tremulous leaves of the fall time,
	Were you born but to decay?

Smiling you come in the spring;
	All summer you laugh in the sun;
Now sadly you drop from the branches,
Sighing, “Summer, sweet summer is done”
				BELLA E. HOWELL


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

ORGANIZATION EFFECTED IN THIS CITY.
	At a meeting of the Wasatch Chapter of
the Daughters of the Revolution held
Wednesday, Nov 16, in room 208 Templeton
building, the Wasatch Society of the State
of Utah, Daughters of the Revolution, was
organized and the following officers elected:
	Regent, Emmeline B. Wells; first vice
regent, Susa Y. Gates; second vice regent,
Clarissa S. Williams; recording secretary,
Julia Farnsworth; corresponding secretary,
Lucy W. Smith; registrar, Phebe Y. Beatie;
treasurer, Mary A. H. Cannon; historian,
Alice S. M. Horne, and chaplain, Maria Y.
Dougall.
	The newly elected regent expressed her-
self as being well pleased that the State or-
ganization had been effected and voiced the
sentiment of every R. D. present in wish-
ing prosperity to the society and a steady
growth of its membership.
				L. W. S., Sec. pro tem.


MARTHAS AND MARYS AGAIN.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	After reading Dilbhur’s “Marthas and
Marys” I wish to say that Brother Levi
Hancock told me that the Prophet Joseph
Smith explained that passage of scripture in
the School of the Prophets. The prophet
said that the world misunderstood the pas-
sage “Martha, Martha thou art careful and
troubled over many things, but one thing
is needful and Mary hath chosen that good
part which shall not be taken away from
her.”
	He explained it by saying that Martha
was a woman who devoted much time to
public affairs and was troubled about many
things, and at the time spoken of in the
Bible, Martha wished the feast to be a suc-
cess when she appealed to the Savior for
her sister’s help, while Mary was a domestic
woman and attended to her home duties
but had no public recognition of her labors.
But still Mary had chosen the better part
and her reward would not be taken away
from her, for wifehood and motherhood was
woman’s most exalted station and her bright
crown would be gained through the trials
and sacrifices she made in her home life, for
that was woman’s kingdom. He also said
the time would come when woman would
delight in public work and neglect the high-
er duties of home.
	Hoping we may all live to gain the
bright crown I remain,
					Your sister,
						A. SNELL.
	Another version of the passage of scrip-
ture alluded to was given to me by our dear,
sainted “Mother Whitney,” who also had
been taught by Joseph the Prophet, and
that was that Martha was over-anxious in
domestic affairs and Mary was so spiritual-
minded that she cared not for the good
things of life but preferred to sit at the
Master’s feet and listen to His teaching. No
doubt Mary also imparted the instruction
she thus received to others wherever and
whenever opportunity was given.—Editor.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING LONG AGO.

“WAY UP IN MAINE.”
	It was a dull, gray, November day away
up among the pine woods in a little coun-
try town in Maine, “a long time ago,” and
the prospect was dreary enough outside, for
the old brown house stood away alone on
the farm, and there was not even a stage
coach passed that way, only the neighbors
now and then in a chaise or heavy vehicle,
for those were not the days of street cars or
locomotives, and only a few ladies kept
their own carriage, and things were slow
compared to these modern times, but what-
ever came or went everbody kept Thanks-
giving, and there were great preparations
beforehand in all the old-fashioned houses,
for it was a general time of festivities.
	Large families were the rule, too, ever
and ever so long ago, and sometimes the
house was as full as it would hold of girls

[Column 2]
and boys, until one would wonder where
they were all tucked, away when night
came. However, there were plenty of home-
made feather beds, for farmers kept geese,
and every housewife was supposed to re-
plenish her stock of bedding from her own
farmyard. Very little money was paid out
for housekeeping matters, money was ex-
pended mostly for books and school tuition,
and perhaps extra lessons on the melodian
or some simple musical instrument for the
parlor, for there was a sort of style kept up
in these far away country houses, and
though often their manners were crude and
their minds unsophisticated, yet in good,
common, practical sense these primitive
Puritans of a few generations back were
not found wanting.
	It was just a day or two before Thanks-
giving and the Denton family were on the
qui vive with excitement in expectation of
guests who were coming from a distance,
and who must be entertained for several
days at least, and the older daughters were
busy, not only with work, but building
“castles in the air” in such splendor that
their eyes shone with visions seen from the
towers of these airy fabrics, and floating
away into space, even sailing over imagin-
ary seas, whose waters bore them tranquilly
onward to the “island of happy children,”
where their dreams were all to be realized
and their fancies become living realities;
and while they were helping with the act-
ual work of cooking and making ready,
they chatted as gaily as though their antici-
pations had come to pass and the fulness of
hope had found its fruition.
	While the girls were busy helping in the
kitchen and pantry, baking in the great
Dutch oven numberless pies and puddings,
pork and beans—the turkeys and geese were
roasted before the fire in those days—the
boys were not idle, for there were great logs
to be chopped and large quantities of pine
knots to be brought in, and nuts to be put
into the “settle” ready for the long eve-
nings when the day’s work and feasting
was over and all would gather for the eve-
ning pastime around the great, wide fire-
place, to crack nuts and jokes simultaneously.
	Little Hattie, the youngest of the girls
who had been paring apples and throwing
the paring over her head to see what letter
it would make, exclaimed, “There Hannah,
do you see that? Its a perfect R, and you
and Elsie have only had S. S. I know
you’ll both marry Smiths, (if you ever do
marry) one will be John Smith, related to
Pocahontas, and the other some one ‘un-
known to fame,’ while poor, little me, I
shall marry a Russell.” “Who will be relat-
ed to your great grandmother Russell and
perhaps almost as old, so don’t boast little
Miss,” said Drucilla.
	“Well, any way, I’ll never be an old
maid like Judith and Sarah Ann, why an
old man is better than none at all, and I’m
not going to wait and make piles of quilts
and stitch and stitch and knit and darn
and mend, and show off what I can do for
the delectation of any man young or old,
and neither will I ‘keep company’ in the
same old parlor year in and year out like


Judith sitting as she and Ben Warner do, 
one in one corner and one in the other, and
can’t pluck up courage to speak above a
whisper; and as for Sarah Ann, she is ‘too
proper’ for a man to dare ‘pop the question,’
but all the same our minister is in love with
her, and he’ll be getting old Deacon Whit-
ing to speak for him.”
	“Hattie you’re too saucy for anything,
stop your nonsense,” Sarah Ann blushing-
ly protested.
	“O, I know what you all think, but I am
tired of waiting for you girls to get married.
Everything is ready for you, and there’s a
dowry, too, to go along with the house
goods, and there’s chests of linen and what’s
to hinder a wedding this Thanksgiving.
I’ve been thinking of the south chamber,
I’m just longing to decorate it my way.”
	“Now Hattie that is going too far, ‘little
girls should be seen and not heard,’ ” said
the modest Drucilla.
	“That’s all right, but I’ll not be put off
that way. I know more than you think,
I haven’t been to high school just to learn
grammar and Euclid, I looked into a few
other things.”
	“And picked up some slang,” interposed
Judith, “which we can’t tolerate. I intend
to speak to mother about your uncommon
knowledge of things.”
	“And Miss Judith I intend to do some-
thing for you and the other grown girls in
this family and get you married off.”
	“How dreadful!” all four echoed at
once. But Jonathan the eldest son, a full-
fledged lawyer, coming in suddenly heard
with dismay the exclamation, and with a
look of inquiry turned to his sister Hattie,
the prime favorite of all the family, for an
explanation.
	“Well its all because I want to get them
married, its high time they were—every-
body says so.”
	“Everybody says so," all the girls re-
peated. “Whose gossip are you repeating
child?”
	“Widow Mills told Bettie and she told
me, and said ‘Hattie you marry while
you’re young and fresh and pretty, and
don’t teach school until you’re as cross as
two sticks, and you’re gray and have crow’s
feet and—”
	But Hattie was cut short in her explana-
tion, for in walked her father and all was
quiet directly, you might have heard a pin
drop.
	“Girls you were making so much noise I
thought you must be having a real good
time, but you look as demure as so many
kittens. "
	“Well pa we were, at least I was having
some fun at the expense of my staid, proper
sisters, they’re as dignified as Quakers, and
I’ve been telling them a few things and
shocking their sensitive pride terribly.”
	“Suppose you tell me Hattie what its
all about.”
	“Its about getting married, and I don’t
mind saying there are too many of us for
you to keep, and as for Jonathan and Sam-
uel they are too old for any nice girls now,
and the house is too small any way for so
many of us, and we haven’t a married one
in all the family,” and Hattie stopped to
catch her breath.
	Judge Denton as solemnly as though he
were passing sentence in a court room in-
quired, addressing himself to the goodly
company of young women, “What do you
propose?”
	Hattie not in the least abashed, though
the others winced perceptibly, replied
laughingly “to have some weddings. Thanks
giving ought to be for something useful. I
have an idea the most useful thing in this
house would be weddings, and then we
wouldn’t have to add any more wings to
the old mansion. Its time we had a wed-
ding any way, and what could be more de-
lightful, we’ve all got white dresses and
black dresses and all sorts of finery, and
Judith and Elsie have been teaching and
boarding round here-and there until every
country village about in Maine and Ver-
mont wants a change.”
	“Is that all, have you finished?” said the
Judge.
	“No pa, that isn’t all, but if I can have a
wedding, I don’t care if its my own and let
the old maids go on teaching if they like it.
Elsie says they do good in the out of the
way places helping to civilize people. But
they’re not doing much at self help, wearing
their lives out teaching other people’s chil-
dren when they might be improving the
race by having some of their own?”
	“Isn’t that a doubtful question whether it
would be an improvement?” the Judge sug-
gested, not really knowing what to say to
his saucy little daughter.
	“Of course its according to whom they
marry.”
	“Evidently you’ve been studying physi-
ology,” said Elsie.
	“And several other ’ologies, and the
philosophy of marriage, and looking at the
matter from a financial standpoint, pa can
marry without a fee, so we needn’t consider
that side of the question.”
	“Joking aside, this is altogether carrying
things too far. its not becoming,” protested
Judith, “and we’re wasting our precious
time with all this nonsense, and the baking
will be spoiled.”
	“And your reputation as good house-
wives, eh Judith!” provokingly put in
Hattie. “Well pa we’ll have a wedding
this Thanksgiving if I have to suggest it
myself to one of the many bachelors who
frequent this house; and if one of you girls
don’t marry why I’ll run away to Vermont
and get married, as I’m not of age yet, so
if you want to preserve the family honor
immaculate, get married.”
	The Judge was puzzled. He knew it
was time the girls were married, he was
getting old, and the two older ones had
been teaching twenty years, and he believed
in marriage, had settled in life when young
himself and he was often sort of chaffed
about his seven unmarried daughters, and
always replied that they were all in love
with their father, which was true in a way,
for they had not seen his like any where.
But really it was a serious matter, and no
one had ventured to broach the subject be-
fore, but Hattie had been the pet of all the
family and took liberties that no other mem-
ber of the household would have done upon
any account,and as she had just come home
from Augusta and had been mingling with
crowds of girls who were out from the con-
trol of parental authority, and talked freely
to each other as school girls do, she made
bold to lay hold of both horns of the dilem-
ma at once, much to the discomfiture of her
sisters who had been so disciplined in their
day with a sedate father and a mother who
was so engrossed with domestic duties, that
she hadn’t time to marry the girls; this was
one of her frequent excuses to those who
alluded to the matter in her presence, as
neighbors will in New England pry into
family affairs, even if you are miles away.
	The Judge withdrew not knowing what
to say and Hattie flew after him, rattling
away until they reached the door of her
mother’s room, when all blushes and half
inclined to cry, she sat down at her mother’s
feet and without waiting opened the ball.
	“Ma don’t you think we ought to have a
wedding this Thanksgiving? Judith and
Ben Warner have been keeping company
about seventeen years, why can’t they get
married? I want to invite Almira Newton
home with me next vacation and have the
south chamber fixed up fine, everything
renovated, and Bettie says everybody can
see our minister is in love with Sarah Ann.”
	“Why Hattie, think of his children,
twins too, and his wife not a year dead, do
you know what you’re saying my dear?
We are happy as we are, don’t turn the
house upside down with new ideas, you’re
only the baby remember.”
	“A very much over-grown baby now ma,
I have seen a few things since I went to
Augusta, even Aunt Lottie thinks its too
hard on pa to have such a house full.”
	“Your Aunt Lottie shouldn’t be filling
your head with rubbish, she has too much
time and too much money, and thinks we
are slow in Berrytown I know, but her boys
are spending her money all right since the
Colonel’s death,” the Judge replied.
	Lottie was Judge Denton’s sister and had
married a rich man and lived high, kept up
an establishment that fairly frightened her
relatives away, and in her husband’s life-
time paid little attention to her brother and
his family (he had been in the habit of call-
ing on her when his business took him to
Augusta twice a year or oftener) but after
her husband’s death having no daughters,
had entreated him to let her have one out
of the seven, and when the Judge and his
wife talked the matter over they decided to
let Hattie go to Augusta to school and stay
with her aunt meantime, and she had made
good use of her eyes and ears, for her aunt’s
house was the resort of fashionable peo-
ple, many of them women who had been
abroad, and had imbibed ideas not alto-
gether in keeping with Puritanism, and
Hattie had come home determined on mak-
ing a domestic revolution. She had hinted
it to Ruth, her sister next older, who fully
agreed with her and had noticed of late her
mother’s failing health, and dreaded the
time when unexpectedly there might be a
funeral in the family, and she knew if
mother went father would not be long. She
had been her mother’s “stay and staff” and
always took care of her in the sweetest way,
made her the daintiest caps and washed her
pretty laces. Mrs. Denton was always and
ever the lady, and the girls were all proud
of their mother, who had been a sort of belle
in her day and had many sweethearts, and in
her own mind she often wondered why her
girls had not been sought after, but gener-
ally came to the conclusion that it was be-
cause they were isolated and had come away
up in that out of the way place, just as the
older girls were beginning to go into com-
pany. Judge Denton left his city practice
in Portland when summoned to the death
bed of his father and promised him to keep
up the old home, and in fact he had met
with heavy losses through trusting his
friends and was grown distrustful; and
thought to settle down on the old farm and
hold on to the land which had been his
father’s pride and highest ambition, would
be more satisfactory after all than battling
for a place among the many of his personal
friends who were striving for office. Mrs.
Denton had taken it hard at first, for she


[Column 1]
had been much in so called society, but
with a family of seven already, she felt that
it was her duty to stay at home, so made no
demur at the change and her husband
never knew it cost her any effort to ac-
quiesce in his wishes.
	Though the Judge moved into the coun-
try he did not escape elections and served
many terms on the bench, and was known
far and wide for his just and equable deci-
sions, especially in criminal cases. He was
beginning to feel very old now with chil-
dren over forty, and his eldest son had seen
half a century and more, but Jonathan was
a fairly good lawyer, and Samuel had filled
several public offices in his own town, and
Elijah was a rising young doctor getting a
good practice around home though the
plain country folks doctored with herbs
mostly and were rather afraid of Apothe-
cary doctors. The girls had all been edu-
cated in the usual branches for young wo-
men sixty or seventy years ago, and two of
them had taken teaching as a profession,
and while Hattie argued with her mother,
the Judge “pondered these things in his
heart.”
	Before night a heavy snow was falling
and in the early morning (for these New
Englanders always had breakfast by candle-
light) the fences were not to be seen. Ruth
and Hattie lifted the blind and looked dis-
mayed at the prospect, and the snow still
falling.
	“Well Ruth we’ll have the wedding any-
way, Ben Warner’ll be here and I’ll see to
the rest.”
 “And so will the Rev. Josiah Cum-
mings,” Ruth added, but in her heart
she kept a dainty, little secret no one knew
but herself and her lover, and the katydids
or whippoorwills who sang to the lovers
when they met, O, so seldom in the pine
woods, and she knew Edwin couldn’t come
on a day like this, and she sighed as she
said, “What a day for a wedding!”
	“Why Ruth this isn’t Thanksgiving,
and it isn’t your wedding day, there’s time
for us yet. I mean to be married in
Augusta, Aunt Lottie will look out for
that.” 
	At the breakfast table the conversation
was all centred in the snow-storm.
	“It’ll be a dull Thanksgiving,” the
Judge remarked, “no visitors from a dis-
tance roads all blocked, we must get out
the oxen boys, call Jake, David, and tell
him to yoke up Dick and Jerry and put on
a yoke of young steers, may be you girls
would like to go on the big sled and help to
break the road.”
	“How jolly!” all at once came from the
girls and boys, and the Judge went up to
mother’s room to tell Ruth who had taken
up the morning cup of tea. Ruth was very
grave and her father urged her to go, telling
her he would take her place by her mother.
	“Wrap yourselves up well,” he said, “for
its a cold day,” and Ruth heavy-hearted
left the room after kissing her ma, who as
soon as she had gone remarked, “Some-
thing ails Ruth.”
	“Nonsense,” the Judge replied, “she’s
the most sensible child we have, no non-
sense about her, takes care of the fowls and
looks after the house money, and is as sav-
ing and practical as her great grandmother
was, whom she resembles.”
	“Nevertheless mark my words there’s
something troubling her, I’ve noticed it of
late and since Hattie came home she has
been positively absent-minded.”
	But the Judge wouldn’t listen nor have

[Column 2]
her questioned, but at dinner, midday din-
ner in those days, he asked the doctor,
Elijah (of whose knowledge and skill he
was rather proud) if Ruth was ailing, at
which remark all the girls stared, (Ruth
was with her mother again as usual) but
the doctor only said heart-ache he guessed,
and Hattie provokingly queried, “Because
she hasn’t a beau?”
	“I don’t know,” jestingly the doctor re-
plied, “she’s the odd one of the family, she
may be the lucky one and astonish us all
by announcing her engagement,” and
Judith whose wise sayings were always ap-
preciated added, “There’s many a true
word spoken in jest.”
	And there the matter rested. Little they
thought what a shock was coming to the
family serenity.
	Meantime the great sled with its jolly
crowd swung out of the lane, and as the
quiet tall young men and women drove by
the scattered farm houses and on into the
great village, the folks turned out with
hallo’s and greetings glad to have the mo-
notony of the day broken into, as well as
the roads made passable. To one who has
never known this sort of thing it may seem
superfluous to tell such trifles, but if he had
lived in the northern states he could not
but be reminded what a blessing it is to
have these good natured old farmers hitch
up their teams with big, heavy sleds and
turn out on the cold frosty mornings and
let people know the whole world is not
dead, as one might almost fancy in the
dead of winter, when the white robe of
snow and ice has covered all nature with its
white mantle of drapery and turned the
rivers and fountains into marble.
	Before nightfall the house was full of
guests and every nook and corner, outside
the dining room, had a bed of some sort,
where the weary travelers might rest the
night before Thanksgiving.
	How jolly they all were except Ruthie,
who was so disappointed, for she had prom-
sed to be in the pine woods at the trysting-
place the evening before at sunset and that
was quite impossible, he must know it, she
thought, and he was such a restless,
thoughtless fellow he might venture to the
house, and then her heart stood still when
she reflected, and a thousand times over
and over she regretted that she had ever
consented to clandestine meetings. But she
consoled herself by thinking she had never
written to him, never accepted presents,
had not even promised anything only that
sometime if her father’s consent could be
gained she would be his bride. Often she
had decided to tell her mother, yet she had
never had the courage, she knew what her
mother would say, “It can never be, you
must give it up, your father will never con-
sent.” And so she had waited until now,
hoping, longing, fearing, dreading, grow-
ing paler and thinner, suffering untold
agony of soul. Of late Edwin had de-
clared he would face the inexorable Judge,
and she had plead for more time to consider
how it could be settled, knowing only so
little of the terrible feud between the fami-
lies of Dentons and Harwoods. And how
should she, the names were never mentioned
in her father’s house, and she met Edwin at
a yacht party up in the lakes, and it was
love at first sight with them both; she
would not have dared tell even that much
before her older sisters who always scoffed
at the idea, and so timid and yearning for
sympathy she carried about with her the
tender passion, feeding the flame with her

[Column 3]
inward craving for a fuller expression of its
intensity. Sometimes when alone she
cared not if all the world forsook her if she
could but see him once more, and when the
time came she trembled lest they should be
seen together, even by the birds that flew
over their heads, lest the relentless parents
should separate them forever. She would
even wait until she was as old as Judith or
older if only Edwin would be as circum-
spect as Ben Warner. But he was rash
and impetuous and threatened to go to sea
or to join the army or go to the north
pole, or any where away from Berrytown
if she would not either consent to a private
marriage or face her father’s anger.
	The evening before Thanksgiving was
one long remembered in that household.
Such music, such songs and stories, with
glad voices and smiling faces! The Judge
was in his jolliest humor, and the sweet
mother glancing from one to another of her
happy group and not one missing. Every
preparation for the morrow’s feasting had
been made, and for the eleven o’clock serv-
ice in the village meetinghouse three miles
away. Indeed the older girls were to sing
in the anthem and wear green ribbons (a
village custom) and though they had guests
they must attend meeting, it was a part of
their country life.
	At twelve o’clock prayers were said and
a fervent prayer offered that all might enjoy
the full thanksgiving of hearts made glad,
on the morrow.
(Continued on page seven.)


[Column 1]
Continued from page three.
	The great sleigh was brought into the
lane after breakfast and the singers were
soon spinning over the beautiful snow.
Ruth was on the look out for the face of
her lover, and ere long she spied him on
horseback signaling to her from a distance.
Jonathan detected him and wondered what
it meant, he too was riding and was near
the sleigh, and was annoyed. Calling to
the girls he said, “Which of you is Ed
Harwood waving to?” Ruth was breath-
less and all the others answered in chorus,
“We don’t know him even, it must be you
he wants.” Momentarily he turned his
horse and galloped after him.
	Ruth saw the maneuver and realized that
something was going to transpire.
	Jonathan coming up to the young man
bade him “good morning” and inquired
what was wanted.
	“Why to speak to your sister Ruth, can
I see her in the meeting house ?’’
	“Not unless you have my father’s per-
mission, I was not aware that you knew
her.” And without waiting longer Edwin
Harwood turned back to the house and
riding up hurriedly inquired for Judge Den-
ton and was admitted without delay, as no
one knew him and supposed he had come
on business. He no sooner saw the Judge
than he told his errand quickly. The fath-
er calm and self-possessed asked him if he
loved Ruth, where had he seen her and
why had he come in such an imperious
fashion so early in the morning, half a
dozen questions in one. To all of these
the young man answered hurriedly, adding
his father had forbidden him to enter the
house again or speak to his mother if he
persisted in keeping the company of one of
the Denton family.
	The Judge coolly listened to every word,
and when young Harwood had finished
said, “I am sorry for you, but you are
young and strong, strike out for yourself,
with your education you can face the
world alone, until your father relents.”
	“Alone never. Ruth loves me and I
will marry her with your consent.”
	"I cannot give it sir, she is the very ap-
ple of my eye, and you have been winning
her without my knowledge it appears, and
now when your father refuses, you expect
me to yield after having been deceived, it
is too much!” and the Judge strong and
self-reliant as he had always been grew
pale and trembled.
	A moment Harwood waited thinking the
Judge would give way, but meantime the
young doctor drove up, who had been out
to see his patients and his father looked to
him the moment he entered the porch where
the conversation had taken place, and said,
“Lije settle with this man I cannot, but he
must not see your sister Ruth.”
	When the Judge had closed the door Ed-
win burst out impetuously, and the doctor
saw at once how matters stood and prom-
ised to befriend him.
	“It will pretty near kill the Judge to give
in, but I’ll do my best for you. I suspect-
ed something of the sort, in fact I saw you
and my sister together on one occasion. I
thought it might have been an accidental
meeting, however, although I was aware
you met at the lakes last summer, and she
has not been like herself of late."
	The fact was the young man showed such
spirit that he won the doctor’s sympathy, 
and he felt how cruel it would be to separ-
ate those young people because of a quarrel

[Column 2]
half a century ago. He urged the young
man to exercise a little self-control until he
could reason with his father, and promised
to stand by his sister whatever happened.
	Poor little Ruth had been very nervous
all through the sermon, and she fairly
broke down during the singing and never
tried a note. When meeting was out and
they started homeward she shook so it was
impossible not to observe it, and when she
reached the house had to be put to bed, her
brother, the doctor, was called, and this
was his opportunity.
	He soon found out that she was quite as
much in love as the young man, and made
up his mind let what would come he would
help them. The house was full of visitors,
but they were all kinsfolk, and it helped
more than hindered because his father was
occupied, and he had not been told how ill
Ruth was.
	In his conversation with his sister he
said, “Its very evident that Edwin will
have to leave here, he is a brilliant fellow,
can get good recommendations from college
friends and would succeed anywhere; but
he will not go without you, now I will en-
deavor to get father’s consent to the mar-
riage and I will go away with you and see
you settled.”
	Ruth protested against leaving her moth-
er, though she had often fancied before-
hand that she could leave every one for her
lover.
	Hattie was called in and was so delight-
ed that she could scarcely be pursuaded to
keep quiet.
	“And the wedding will be a reality after
all, and it must be today, and let me tell 
Judith and Sarah Ann, and they will be
jealous.”
	“No, no, little sister, you are not to tell 
any one yet, I will see the Rev. Josiah
Cummings, and Ben Warner, and will
manage it all this very day after dinner.”
	And the doctor’s ingenuity and tact
served him well, he arranged all the details
and then sprung the question to his father
when he was in the very gayest spirits after
a fine dinner, and though he demurred at
first he was over-ruled by the strong will
of his son.
	Meantime Ben Warner and the minister,
(who were dining at the house) getting
courage from the success of young Har-
wood made bold to ask for the girls, Judith
and Sarah Ann, and the Judge was more 
than willing to consent.
	"I can give my daughters to you with-
out any misgivings, both sterling men of
good family, but this rash young Harwood
who comes to me and demands Ruth, tell-
ing me he will have her with or without
my consent, I shall not say yes. The
doctor takes all the responsibility. I simply
leave the matter in his hands.”
	“Oh, that’s all right Judge, he has great
courage.”'
	“Far too much just like his family, I
want none of them,” and the good minister
seeing the Judge grow angry said, “But
the question is who is to perform the cere-
mony for me? I have promised Ben Warn-
er, and the doctor has asked me to marry
Ruth and Edwin, now Judge will you per-
form the ceremony as well as to give me
my wife?”
	“To be plain with you, I don’t care to
have any hand in this business; who ever
heard of a sober Puritan family getting to-
gether and making matches on Thanks-
giving instead of conducting themselves


[Column 1]
with propriety as becomes the day, and by
George, the house full of company to see
and hear it all!”
	“The company need not know every-
thing, they will be the guests of honor to
wish the brides happiness and drink their
health, let them believe the whole matter
understood, as in fact it seems to have been.”
	“But what will mother say?” the Judge
interposed, “she will never consent to such
out of the way doings, and the first wedding
in the family.”
	“Leave mother to me and to Hattie who
has been trying to get somebody married
ever since she came home.”
	“I’ll have nothing to do with this inde-
cent haste, the house turned topsy turvy to
please this madcap Harwood, its all his do-
ings, sober-minded men would never think
of such haste.”
	“But Warner here and the minister have
both been trying to ask you and had not
the courage, now that Harwood has opened
the ball who knows what may happen? We
may all marry soon, Hattie wants to intro-
duce all sorts of new-fangled notions, and a
triple wedding is rather novel in a staid
Yankee home.”
	“Yes Lije an unheard of thing, and for
my part I’m ashamed of it, even if there
are eleven in family I’ve always been proud
and glad to have my children with me, and
as for the girls I don’t care to spare one of
them, the house is big enough and I’m
not, anxious to be left alone at my time of
life, not even with mother. By George, I
don’t like this way of doing business, and
that Harwood, I can’t have him here with
his airs and impudence and his own father
turned him out, my daughter marry one of
that family!” and the Judge broke down
completely.
	However the buoyancy of the brides and
bridegrooms elect, and particularly of Hat-
tie who flitted from room to room with the
help, and brightened all the place with the
evergreens and pine and ornamentation such
as could be improvised at a moment’s notice,
besides consulting with her older sisters
about their finery, and it was surprising
what Judith and Sarah Ann had put away
for special occasions.
	“And the special occasion,” Hattie told
them, “was a wedding of course, for you
never go to balls, and these things are only
suitable for evening ball dresses or a wed-
ding”. And so she teased them, but poor,
little Ruth was left to herself and slept un-
der the soothing influence of her good
brother’s assurances, and at dinner refused
to go down, in fact she gave no thought
about what she should wear any more than
the lilies of the field, which she so much re-
sembled, when at last she rose reluctantly
and was daintily attired in one of Hattie’s
party dresses.
	After dinner when the guests and part of
the family were assembled in the quaint,
old, dark parlor with a huge fire of pine
knots, in walked the minister and Judith
and Ben Warner; and the doctor who was
the prime-mover in the affair explained to
the visitors that there was a surprise for
them, and he was quite sure they would all
enjoy it. And then without further cere-
mony the Judge gave his eldest daughter to
Ben Warner, and the minister in a few
words united them for life. Congratula-
tions followed, but the doctor interrupted
them and announced quickly that the min-
ister was so elated over marrying other peo-
ple that he wished to be married himself,

[Column 2]
and brought forward his sister Sarah Ann
and the Judge made quick work of the cere-
mony.
	Pale and yet blushing came demure little
Ruth escorted by her great brother the law-
yer—who gave her to the handsome, dash-
ing man that none of the guests knew even
by sight. The minister turned from his
bride and the ceremony was over before the
astonished company had time to compre-
hend the situation.
	Instead of gaiety and merriment a solemn
silence fell upon the gathering, and they
sat and watched the flickering flames of the
great pine fire, and scarce a word was spok-
en and no inquiries made.
	The doctor was the only talkative one
and even he was inclined to reticence; no
explanations were given and it was diffi-
cult to understand whether the whole affair
was a reality or a huge joke.
	Morning, however, brought changes; the
minister and his bride were missing from
the family table, having gone to the parson-
age, Judith and Ben to the Warner home,
and Ruth and the doctor had flown. Hattie
however, was equal to the occasion and
kept up the conversation at breakfast with
a very good grace, though she was not so
well pleased with the culmination of affairs
as she had anticipated when she determined
on getting somebody married. Her father’s
frowns and her mother’s pale face were a
constant reproach for years afterwards,
although no real blame could attach to her.
	Her brilliancy attracted the attention of
the numerous relatives, tho’ much of her
gaiety was assumed for the time being. A
distant cousin, one of the time-honored
Russell family, was so enamored of her wit
and beauty that he followed her up with
tender love letters, and later on they cele-
brated their nuptials in Augusta with all
the elegant paraphernalia the city afforded.
	Dr. Denton and Mr. and Mrs. Harwood
settled in Western New York, and many
years elapsed before they visited the old
home in Berrytown. Judge Denton and
his amiable wife had passed away and the
house was lonely enough with the bachelor
brother Samuel, Jonathan had gone to Port-
land to practice law, David had married
and set up in business for himself in the
county adjoining. Drucilla had been
widowed and returned home with two or-
phan children, and Hannah and Elsie had
both married Smiths, as Hattie predicted,
and gone to homes of their own.
	Ruth never regretted her marriage but
always longed for her mother and the dear
ones; but one often realizes the hand
of destiny in separations that in themselves
were regretful, and so it was with the Den-
tons who from force of circumstances drifted
westward, and when a new Gospel was
preached in their locality being alone as it
were, without ties of relationship to oppose,
the way was open for them without so
much opposition as they must otherwise
have encountered, and Ruth and Edwin
were among the early converts to the new
faith, and although the doctor was a free
thinker and never accepted baptism, yet he
was a friend to the people, and eventually
the Harwood family which was also a large
one had the privilege of doing vicarious
work for those who had rejected them and
cast them off to face the world alone, and
thus the Thanksgiving day of disappoint-
ment became in turn a remembrance which .
proved a more lasting Thanksgiving than
feasting and social enjoyment. But the

[Column 3]
poet spoke truly when he wrote 
	“But Heaven hath a hand in all these things.”
	And in this case as in many other instan-
ces, what seemed a great calamity was a
blessing in disguise though they knew it
not, but in the years that followed many
were the thanksgivings offered to Him who
rules and over-rules the destinies of those
who are to take part in His work upon the
earth.
						E. B W.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EIGHTY YEARS.
		TO MRS M I. HORNE.

The whispering winds of eighty summers,
	Have kissed thy cheek from Youth to Age:
And blown the rose’s fragrance o'er thee,
	As years like leaves have turned a page.
O, blissful dreams of youthful summers,
	Ye idle winds so ight and gay,
When leaves are flut ering in the sunshine
	Throughout the long and happy day.

O, joyous winds have ye fled forever?
	Away forever from our fond recall? —
Chil[-] Au umn winds sob by the window,
	As the tinted leaves begin to fall.
Ye birds of summer that sing in gladness,
	When the balmy breeze goes sighing by;
Long too, [-]ou’ve gone beyond remembrance
	With the leaves that in the pathway lie. 

The years have crowned thee dear, with glory,
	Though eighty snows have changed thy hair,
From glossy dark to tinted whiteness—
	Thy face e’en now is grand and fair.
And ’round thy life a halo lingers,
	Like Indian summer’s crimson hue,
And purple fruitage rich wit[-] ripeness,
	Life’s golden crown thus rests on you.

A life well lived through all the journey;
	The wisdom gathered by the way,
Bestows the Indian summer’s glory,
	And adds the halo we love today. 
Honor to thy many virtues! prophetically
	They speak to ages yet unborn;
In lasting faith with truth and justic ,
	Thy record’s made, dear Sister Horne
						LYDIA D. ALDER.
November 20, 1898.


We all of us complain of the shortness of
time, and yet have much more than we
know what to do with. We are always
complaining that our days are few, and act-
ing as though there would be no end to them.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 				
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pthe ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY DECEMBER 1, 1898.


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
	On Sunday the 20th of November, Sister
M. Isabella Horne of this city reached the
dignity and celebrity of four score years, in
full possession of all her faculties and a
good degree of health and energy. Sister
Horne has had a remarkable and eventful
life, more than thirty years of it devoted to
public duties, charitable and philanthropic,
and the temporal, religious and spiritual
welfare of the community.
	Her first public position was when she
was chosen president of the Relief Society
of the Fourteenth ward in this city, and
afterwards she was called by President
Young to preside over the General Re-
trenchment Association at its first organiza-
tion, with seven counselors at that time,
they were Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D.
H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M.
Kimball, Miranda P. Hyde, Phebe W.
Woodruff and Margaret Smoot. When
Sister Smoot moved to Provo Sister Eliza-
beth Howard was chosen to fill the vacancy.
At the present time there are three of the
seven still living, Zina D. H. Young, Bath-
sheba W. Smith and Sarah M. Kimball.
Sister Horne traveled through the several
Stakes of Zion with Sister Eliza, Sister
Zina and others from that time and has con-
tinued ever since to visit the various locali-
ities in the interest of the Latter-day work.
	December 22, 1877, Sister Horne was
elected to preside over the Relief Society
in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, and June
19, 1880 was chosen treasurer of the Central
Board of the General Relief Society.
	Sister Horne was chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Deseret Hospital
Association when it was established in May
1882, and served faithfully twelve years in
that capacity. She was also an active offic-
er in the Deseret Silk Association for many
years, and has always been a practical ad-
vocate of home productions and home in-
dustries. When the Woman’s Coopera-
tive Store was established in 1890 she was
the unanimous choice of the board of
directors for its president, as she had al-
ways made a success of executive work.
	Sister Horne is one of the strongest ad-
vocates of political equality and when suf-
frage was given to the women of Utah in
1870, she rejoiced in the privilege of casting
her ballot for men who would stand for
justice and equality. It was about that
time that President Young nominated Sis-

[Column 2]
ter Horne, Justice of the Peace for the pre-
cinct in which she lived; for several years
she was a member of the Central Committee
of the County and Territory, and her work
in political, charitable and religious lines
has been marked by great earnestness and
characteristic, individuality; and her un-
wavering steadfastness and integrity to the
Gospel is always noticable.
	As a mother and wife her record is with-
out a blemish, and it may well be said of
her “Her works praise her.” She was
married comparatively young for those
days and had fifteen children. She with
her companion, Elder Joseph Horne, lived
to celebrate not only their golden wedding
but also their sixtieth anniversary. Sister
Horne has a numerous posterity, about
ninety grandchildren and thirty great
grandchildren; a mother in Israel in very
deed.
	On Saturday, November 19, a gathering
in her honor convened in the Assembly
Hall in this City, and her counselor, Annie
T. Hyde presided. Prof. C. J. Thomas
with some of the Temple choir took charge
of the music. Counselor Clara C. Cannon
offered the opening prayer, after singing
again by the choir Annie T. Hyde in a few
well chosen words presented an elegant
album made at home in Utah, bound in
morocco with silver clasps and gold letter-
ing, containing loving sentiments from
many friends and each president of a branch
of the society in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	President Zina D. H. Young made the
opening address in her heartfelt, motherly
fashion. A letter was read by Mrs. E. B.
Wells from President Jane S. Richards of
Ogden, expressing love for Sister Horne
and regret at not being present. Remarks
were made by Prests. B. W. Smith, Elmina
S. Taylor Bishop G. H. Taylor and
Apostle H. J. Grant. Dr. E. S. Barney
read her address which was replete with
tenderness and high regard couched in
beautiful language. President Mary A.
Hyde spoke a few words in the gift of
tongues which was interpreted by President
Zina D. H. Young. Mrs. E. B. Wells and
L. John Nuttall also made brief remarks,
and then President Horne responded to the
honors conferred upon her in a modest and
appreciative speech, giving some incidents
in her life that were quite remarkable. The
congregation united in singing the favorite
hymn “O, my Father,” and benediction
was pronounced by Elder George Goddard.
	A dinner party was given for Sister
Horne on Monday, November 21, at the
residence of her daughter, Mrs. Joseph
Tingey, to which about fifty of her most in-
timate friends were invited. The principal
guest was President George Q. Cannon,
Apostle H. J. Grant was also present and a
number of the most eminent women of the
Church. Five of Sister Horne’s daughters
were present and two of her sons. Joseph
Horne, one of the presidency of Sevier
Stake, arrived when the company had as-
sembled, which was a surprise to the moth-
er as well as a great pleasure.
	Sister Horne received several valuable
presents from relatives and friends, tokens
of friendship and esteem, The rooms were
handsomely decorated with smilax, chrysan-
themums and carnations. The dinner was
delicious and tastefully served and the
guests were as happy as though celebrating
a marriage feast. Letters of congratulation
from a distance, poems etc., were read and
social conversation indulged in, later on
extempore speeches were made and the

[Column 3]
evening passed in delightful interchange of
kindly feeling.
	Of Sister Horne it may be truly said,
“Her children rise up and call her blessed.”


AN INTERESTING PARTY.
	At the residence of Mrs. Amelia F. Young
in her handsome parlors on Tuesday after-
noon, November 15, there were assembled
a company of ladies who represented at least
three of the principal families of early Utah,
Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and
Daniel H. Wells. Of President Young’s
family there were present seven wives and
sixteen daughters, including the two eldest
born before the Church was organized in
the State of New York. Elizabeth the eld-
est had come from Idaho five or six hun-
dred miles to attend this gathering, having
to travel by team part of the way. It was
a goodly assemblage and we were forcibly
reminded of the gatherings in the Social
hall in the days now departed when we were
accustomed to see those heroic representa-
tives of the Church and the State, Brigham
Young, Heber C. Kimball, George A.
Smith. Daniel H. Wells, John Taylor, Or-
son Hyde, Wilford Woodruff, Orson Pratt
and many others well known as founders of
this commonwealth. Brother Fulsom,
father of Mrs Amelia F. Young, and his
wife were also of the company, and after
general conversation, partaking of a deli-
cious repast in the handsome dining room
of the hostess, remarks were made by some
of those present mostly of a reminescent,
congratulatory character. Meantime Bishop
Clawson came in and was called upon to
offer a benediction as some of the guests
were ready to leave; the Bishop asked per-
mission to make a few remarks and told of
his experience on the stage, his intimate
acquaintance with Joseph Smith and men-
tioned the Prophet’s love for the idealities,
the drama etc., as well as for practical and
athletic sports and games. It was a happy
reunion of old friends who are occupied
with daily duties to the exclusion of that
sweet intercourse which makes all friends
feel akin to each other.


UNITED IN MARRIAGE.

	The wedding ceremony of Prof. Antoine
Muzzarilli Ph. D., and Miss Mary R.
Brandow of St. Joseph, Mo., was solemnized
Saturday, Nov. 5, at high noon at the Ro-
man Catholic Church in this city, Father
Kiley officiating. The bride was a teacher
in the public schools of her native city, St.
Joseph, several years, and is spoken of in
their home papers as one of the most popu-
lar and accomplished young women of that
city. She was accompanied to Salt Lake by
her brother, Mr. Edward Brandow, of the
firm of Brandow Bros. Mr. Brandow re-
mained a few days and was present at his
sister’s marriage.
	Prof. Muzzarilli is a distinguished soldier,
journalist and litterateur. He was for ten
years director of the School of Languages in
New York City. In many ways he has
had a remarkable career. Appleton’s Cly-
clopedia of American Biography gives a
brief account of him. He served as cap-
tain of engineers in the Franco-German
war and against the communists in 1871. He
was one of the editors of La Republique
Francaise, the organ of Gambetta, and
later on president of the Democratic Com


mittee of Paris. In 1876 he came to the
United States. He visited Peru and Chili
and was war correspondent of the Chilian
army. He returned to the United States in
1880. He has visited Japan and the north
of Africa and is the author of Histoire de
la guerr du Pacifique, two volumes Paris
(1880) and several other books, fourteen in
all. His text books are used in high schools
and some of the best colleges. He is the
originator and director of the Alliance
Franco-American institution and is at
present engaged in teaching French in this
city by the natural method.
	The “Exponent” offers fervent congratu-
lations to the newly wedded pair, wishing
them bon voyage over the sea of life.
	Wedded love is founded on esteem,
	Which the fair merits of the mind engage;
	For there are charms which never can decay,
	But time which gives new whiteness to the swan
				Improves their lustre.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“MUSINGS AND MEMORIES.”

	“Musings and Memories” is a volume of
poems entirely of home production, and is
very suitable as a gift for the holidays. The
book is sufficiently elegant in appearance
for any drawing room or library table. It
contains three hundred pages and includes
a steel engraving of the author. It is for
sale at the office of the “Woman’s Expo-
nent,” Templeton Building, opposite Deseret
News office. Cloth binding, $1.25; dainty
cover, $1.50; morocco, $2.00. Those liv-
ing outside Salt Lake City who might wish
to purchase the book should address,
	MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		Templeton Building,
			Salt Lake City Utah.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	At the quarterly conference of the Box
Elder Stake of Zion held on Sunday and
Monday, the 13th and 14th of November,
President Lorenzo Snow being present the
officers of the Relief Society of that Stake
were chosen to fill the vacancy caused by
the demise of the president, Sister Olivia
Widerborg, and the resignation of her
counselors. The officers elected were Sus-
anna P. Booth, president; Emelia D. Mad-
sen and Louisa Peters, counselors; secretary
and treasurer, names not yet known.
	On Saturday, November 6, President
Ann C. Woodbury of St. George Stake,
with her counselors, Emma Morris and
Jane T. Bleak, visited Gunlock ward and
held a meeting with the Relief Society, a
very good spirit was manifest. Although
at that time there had been no storms in
St. George, Sister Woodbury says they
were surprised on their return from Gun-
lock to see the shrubs in the Temple grounds
covered with ice, “the spray having frozen
on them, it was an unusual sight.”
	A very pleasant reception was given on
Saturday, November 12, by Mrs. W. W.
Riter and Mrs. C. H. Wells at Mrs. Riter’s
residence, from two to five p. m. The
handsome parlors were beautifully decora-
ted with autumn leaves, flowers, potted
plants etc., chrysanthemums in abundance
and delightful music by a string band. Mrs.
Riter and Mrs. Wells received together.
Guests came and went during the entire
afternoon and all who wished were served

[Column 2]
with tea, coffee, wafers and candy by
charming young ladies in airy costumes
who were delighted to do the honors. It
was a brilliant affair and a perfect success,
judging from the animated conversation and
the lingering of groups chatting in corners.
	Ex-Qeuen Liluokalani visited Salt Lake
on Saturday, Nov. 26, en route for Wash-
ington, remaining only one day. The
Hawaiians paid her great respect, meeting
her at the depot and showing her every
courtesy possible. Through the kindness
of Sister Emily G. Cluff, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and the writer were favored with an intro-
duction and the great pleasure of convers-
ing with her for a short time. The late
queen is very affable and interesting, fond
of poetry and literature, has written books
and translated from other languages. She
is a patron of the Historical Society of
Polynesia. She sings pathetically and on
the occasion of our interview she sang a
favorite ballad “Aloha oe,” and played her
own accompaniment on the piano. She en-
tertains a high regard for our people, and
was interested in all we are doing especial-
ly in the work of women. She referred to
woman’s work in general and spoke of hav-
ing attended the Mothers’ Congress in
Washington and other conventions of wo-
men.
	On Wednesday November 23, the Gardo
House, famous for many brilliant gather-
ings, was opened by its present occupants,
Mr. and Mrs A.W. McCune also famous en-
tertainers, to about two hundred invited
guests, most of them Temple workers. A
program had been arranged and opened
with sacred music by the Temple choir
led by Prof. C. J. Thomas. Prayer was
offered by Bishop George H. Taylor, and
after some rich music by the sweet singers
of Israel, President Lorenzo Snow made the
opening address in his usual dignified and
impressive manner. Other brief speeches
were made interspersed with musical selec-
tions and a few choice recitations The
guests were invited to the elegant, large
dining hall where a tempting repast was
waiting, the program being continued
meanwhile. After the numerous company
had all been served there were a few more
speeches by brethren and one by President
Zina D. H. Young, and as the guests were
dispersing the Doxology was sung and
Brother Claridge of Arizona, the father
of Sister McCune, pronounced the benedic-
tion. The guests were profuse in their
expressions of appreciation of the pleasant
time given them by the amiable host and
hostess who seemed solicitous that all
should enjoy themselves, and the affair was
certainly a great success socially and spirit-
ually.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Sister Olivia Widerborg, president of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, departed
this life on the 27th of September, 1898, in
Brigham City, Box Elder county, after a
lingering illness of many months, or in fact
years.
	Olivia Nelsen Widerborg was born on the
4th of December, 1832, in Maribo on Lol
land, Denmark. She embraced the Gospel
in Copenhagan, February 16, 1855, was
baptized by Elder Niels Hansen. In 1858
she emigrated to Utah and was married
November 28, 1860, to Elder Carl Wider-
borg in Salt Lake City.


Her husband died in 1867 and she was
left alone to support herself and children.
She was connected with the Relief Society
work in Ogden and acted as secretary in
the Primary Association in the 3rd ward of
Ogden. In 1878 she removed to Brigham
City and became an active member of the
Relief Society here. On September 8, 1885,
she was appointed second counselor to
President Harriet A. Snow. In July 1890,
she was elected president of Box Elder
Stake after the death of President Harriet
A. Snow, which position she held at the
time of her death.
	Sister Widerborg was beloved by her sis-
ters, she was a woman of great integrity,
full of the spirit of discernment and charity,
a friend to the poor, the distressed and the
sorrowful, she was particularly gifted both
intellectually and spiritually. Her faith
and trust in God was perfect, and through
all her long sufferings she manifested a
sweet spirit of patience and submission to
the will of the Lord.
	She possessed the rare gift of inspiring
others with confidence, the poor and dis-
tressed would feel free to come to her per-
sonally and never did any one leave her
empty-handed or empty-hearted, according
to their need. Of her can be truly said,
“She did magnify her holy calling.” 
	Lovingly from her colaborers,
	Mary Wright, 1st counselor; Zilla Reese,
2nd counselor; Annie Wiscom, recording sec-
retary; Emelia Madsen, corresponding secre-
tary; Fanny Graehl, treasurer; Eugenie S. 
Pierce, assistant secretary.


R. S. REPORTS.

WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake was held at Junction, Wayne Co.,
on Sunday afternoon, August 28, 1898.
Present on the stand the Stake officers of
the society and President W. E. Robison,
Counselors H. M. Hanson and G. S. Bas-
tian, also Patriarch E. H. Blackburn and
other brethren. Meeting opened by sing-
ing “Praise to the man” etc. Prayer offered
by President W. E. Robison. Singing
“Hail to the brightness” etc.
	President Jane S. Coleman spoke upon
the gifts and privileges of the Gospel. She
said that mothers should not neglect their
homes, they should teach their children in
their youth the principles of the Gospel.
She had lately visited, in company with
Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe and Sister
Louisa Brown, six of the local Relief Soci-
ety branches and could report them in good
condition, awake to their duties and an in-
crease in attendance at meetings. Gave in-
structions pertaining to Relief Society work
and the duties of teachers, advised the
presidents and grain committees to com-
mence gathering up the grain while it was
plentiful and fulfill the obligation placed
upon us in this direction to save up grain
for future need.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe was thank-
ful for the privilege of meeting in confer-
ence, said we should strive continually to
enjoy the spirit of God that our faith may
increase. She was pleased to see the inter-
est manifested among the sisters in the Re-
lief Society work and noted the union that
existed in the different branches where she
had lately visited in the Stake. Gave good
advice to mothers on many subjects pertain-
ing to living good lives and practicing our


[Column 1]
religion in our daily walk and conversation.
	Teasdale Relief Society was reported in
good condition by Counselor Margaret A.
Adams. She also bore testimony to the
truth of the Latter-day work. Aldrich
society was reported by the president in
good order. Sister Eliza Rust, president
of Cainsville society, reported well. They
cultivate an acre lot for the benefit of their
society, she also stated the young sisters
were members and were united with them
and acted as assistant teachers.
	Sister Thisbe Hanks bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, spoke up-
on the power of the priesthood in adminis-
tering to the sick and upon the gift of heal-
ing. and exhorted the young to be faithful.
	President W. E. Robison said he had en-
joyed the remarks of the sisters and the
spirit of the meeting, would have been
pleased if more of the brethren had been
present. He was gratified to know that
the sisters were energetic in saving grain,
appreciated their labors and spoke very en-
couragingly of the same, wished them suc-
cess and prayed God to bless them.
	Sister Elizabeth Jeffry of Loa bore testi-
mony to the lovely truths of the Gospel,
said we should practice the spirit of love
and charity and sustain the Relief Society
by our good works.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “Redeemer of Israel.” Benedic-
tion by G. S. Bastian.
		ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.
ALBERTA, CANADA.
	The Relief Society of Alberta Stake held
its annual conference at the Leavitt meet-
ing house October 8, 1898, President Mary
L. Woolf presiding. Singing “Glorious
things of thee are spoken.” Prayer by
Elder Niels Hanson. Singing “Come let
us anew.” Roll was called showing thir-
teen officers present each responding with a
sentiment. Minutes of the forenoon ses-
sion of the previous conference read and ap-
proved.
	President Woolf said the object in hold-
ing our conferences in other wards was to
give all the sisters a chance to attend
There is a great mission for mothers, she
realized it more every day. She wished
the sisters to be punctual and enjoy the
spirit of God that will be given when in
the line of our duties. We should look
after the poor and comfort those afflicted
and downcast. We should also visit those
who are coming into our midst and make
them welcome. Desired to be energetic
and perform the labors required of her.
	President Anna Baker of Leavitt had
been unable to attend her duties being al-
most constantly at the bedside of her
mother, asked for the faith and prayers of
the sisters in her mother’s behalf.
	Counselor Sarah Broadbent of Leavitt re-
ported the society as being in a prosperous
condition. She knew the sisters were bless-
ed with the spirit of God and desired to do
all in their power to roll on the great work.
	President Elizabeth Webb reported the
Mountain View society. Although in a
scattered condition the sisters were united
and faithful in performing their labors.
	Counselor Elizabeth Leavitt of Leavitt
felt to do her duty as a worker in the Re-
lief Society.
	Counselor Eva Hanson of Ætna society 
said they were in a very scattered condi-
tion and it was difficult for the sisters to at-
tend their meetings, but if they would be

[Column 2]
prayerful the Lord would open up the way
for them to meet together and receive spirit-
ual food. Mothers so much need to train
their children in the right way, nothing
gave her more pleasure than to gather her
little ones around her and instruct them in
the things of God. God knows our very
thoughts and if we are faithful He will
bless us according to our needs. It is a
great mission to be a mother, she felt grate
ful for every dear little one intrusted to her
care and desired great wisdom to guide
them aright.
	Sister Annie Layne said she knew the
spirit of God was with us. The Lord is
blessing the people in this Stake of Zion
and we should not complain. Felt grate-
ful that her children were all in the Church.
	Sister Martha Quinton said although
their numbers were few they could realize
the promise of the Savior, that when a few
meet in His name His spirit will be with
them. Knew she had been healed by the
power of God and felt grateful for the kind-
ness of the sisters during her illness. Said
if we would attend our meetings we would
be built up and return to our homes re-
freshed and be better prepared to attend to
the cares and duties of life. Go before our
Heavenly Father and He will lighten our
burdens.
	Sister Eliza Leavitt had received a testi-
mony to the truth of the work, felt to do
her duty.
	Elder Charles Quinton addressed the con-
ference. Said there never has been a time
in the history of the Church when the
Saints have been more blessed than at the
present time, we are blessed with inspired
leaders, knew the sisters were inspired and
spoke by the spirit of God. Whatever we
are called upon to do, it is our duty to re-
spond. He had laid aside his labors to at-
tend the conference and felt blessed in so
doing.
	President Mary L. Woolf made a few
closing remarks. Felt grateful for the
sweet influence that had been in our midst.
Meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
Benediction by Counselor Jane Hinman.
	Afternoon session, President Mary L.
Woolf presiding. Singing “Guide us O
Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Elder
Francis Broadbent. Singing “O my
Father.” Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read and approved.
	President Woolf desired all the presidents
of the several branches of the society to
subscribe for the “Exponent,” urged the
sisters to sustain it, said it was a valuable
paper. Spoke of the building that the
society wanted to erect in Salt Lake City
for the purpose of holding the Relief Soci-
ety conferences. She wished the sisters to
assist those who preside and donate liber-
ally for the purpose.
	President Sarah Daines said: “We are
engaged in a grand and noble work, if we
could all understand our duties and per-
form them we should be a power in the
land. Mothers are looked to as an example
for their children, they should set worthy
examples. We should teach our children
to reverence the priesthood of God and His
house of worship and show respect to the
aged.” Reported the Cardston ward, the
sisters were all faithful in their labors.
Said we must have charity to do good, we
are all God’s children, we should pray for
those who are downcast and afflicted.
	Counselor E. Davidson of Mt View said it

[Column 3]
was good for us to be here and partake of
the spirit of God. She had a desire to do
her duty, had received many testimonies
that the work we are engaged in is true.
	Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman said God is
pleased with us when we lay aside our
labors and attend our meetings. We are
blest abundantly and have many oppor-
tunities today we did not have a few years
ago. We should improve our time and
progress in wisdom and knowledge. Our
mission is to look after the poor and afflict-
ed, hoped we would always be found doing
our duty.
	The congregation then sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning.”
	Counselor Jane Hinman said: “Mothers
have great responsibilities, carry the spirit
and instructions you have received here to
your homes. Let us show by our works
that we love God and keep His command-
ments.”
	Elder Niels Hanson said he had been
greatly edified in meeting with the sisters,
knew they were trying to perform their
duties as mothers and they could not be en-
gaged in a greater work. Felt grateful he
had heard and embraced the true Gospel of
Christ, that his children could be brought
up under the right influence. Prayed God
to bless the sisters with strength to per-
form their duties.
	President Woolf had been delighted with
the conference. Said: “Sisters make an
effort to attend your meetings and the Lord
will open up the way. Do not be back-
ward in arising to bear your testimonies, it
will strengthen you. Teach your children
to honor the priesthood, if we teach them
correct principles they will not depart from
them. Teach them faith practically, when
they are sick have them kneel with you
and pray together for the recovery of those
afflicted.”
	Counselor Jane Hinman then presented
the names of the General and Stake officers,
all were unanimously sustained.
	President Anna Baker felt pleased with
the good time we had had together and
thanked the sisters for their kindness to her
mother.
	May Lula Ibey bore her testimony. She
had been taught faith practically from her
youth, had been healed by faith and ad-
ministration. Spoke of the words uttered
by our late President Wilford Woodruff at
the April conference. We do not appre-
ciate the day we live in; the coming of the
Savior is nearer our door than we realize.
Let us live faithfully and be prepared for
the blessings that await us, pray for the
spirit of discernment and cultivate the gift
of faith.
	Meeting was adjourned for three months.
Singing “I long to breathe the mountain
air.” Benediction by Brother Charles
Quinton.
		MARY L. IBEY, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

ELEANOR PATTERSON.
	On Saturday, August 20, 1898, Sister Eleanor
Patterson departed this life in her home at St.
Johns, Arizona. She was thirty-four years and
eleven days old. She had born to her six girls,
four of whom are still living, and one boy, which
was seven months old at her death. Her health
has been such since its birth that she has not been
able to enjoy the heavenly gift she had so much
desired, and in fact she had been a sufferer for
about two years previous.
	She was a consistent Latter-day Saint, a true


wife and mother in the highest sense of the term,
and I firmly believe she would not be afraid to
have her record read from the house tops. She
was counselor to the president of the Relief Soci-
ety of this ward and we the members of the Relief
Society desire to express our deep and earnest
sympathy for the household so bereaved, and we
lament the loss of such an exemplary member of
our society although we feel her reward is sure.
					R. E. BERRY SEC.
MARY RICHES EAGAR.
	At 3 o’clock Sunday, October 2, 1896, at Apache,
Arizona Co., the spirit of our esteemed sister,
Mary B. Riches Eagar, aged forty-five years, was
called home to the sweet beyond.
	Although her demise has cast a gloom over our
society of which she was so active a member we
feel to acknowledge the hand of our Heavenly
Father. Sister Eagar had served as an officer in
the Relief Society of this ward (Union) for many
years. She was first sustained as secretary Jan.
1, 1880, and acted in that capacity u[-]til June 14,
1891, at which date she was honorably released
from acting as secretary and at once chosen and
sustained as second counselor. She served as
counselor until Ju[-]y 1896, at which date she was
again chosen and sustained as secretary which
office she held till the time of her death.
	Sister Eagar died as she had lived a true Latter
day Saint, and that is all that could be said in any
one’s praise. She leaves a husband and eleven
children to mourn her loss.
	Our society feels to tender its sympathy to the
family and relatives wherever they may be.
		CHARLOTTE JENSEN Pres.
		MAGGIE JENSEN, Asst Sec.
JANE WILKIE BLOOD.
	We are again called to part with one of our
faithful fellow laborers in the Relief Society, Sis-
ter Jane Wilkie Blood.
	Sister Blood was born in Southampton, Hamp-
shire, England, May 2, 1845. In 1854 she with
her parents came to Utah. They arrived in Salt
Lake City on October 3, 1854, and she was mar-
ried to William Blood in 1860.
	Sister Blood was called to act as a teacher in
the Kaysville Relief Society May 14, 1868, and
cheerfully filled this place, always being willing
to do whatever she was called upon. A short
time after she was chosen treasurer in the same
society. She was always ready to relieve the poor
and needy and was always at her post of duty
She was blessed wi[-]h a strong will power and
never shrank from any task that lay before her.
	In 1879 she was called to preside over the
Primary Association. On July 17, 1882, she was
chosen first counselor to Sarah B. Layton in the
Relief Society, which office she filled until she
passed away.
	She was the mother of five sons and five
daughters and they all survive her.
	Sister Blood was a friend to the Indians, and
often gave them food and clothing. She took
great pleasure in teaching the young people the
Gospel. For thirty years she was a member of
the Kaysville choir, also a teacher in the Sunday
School for many years. Her motto was duty be-
fore pleasure, and she attended to her household
duties, never complaining. We have no doubt
but Sister Blood has gone to continue her labors
in the spirit world.
	On September 7, after an illness of five months
she passed away, leaving her ten children and
a husband to mourn her loss, being full of faith to
the end.
				SARAH B. LAYTON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A new leaflet “Clara Barton on Equal
Suffrage,” is now ready and may be had at
the Headquarters, 3 Park St., Boston at 15
cents per hundred.
	Tuesday November 8, women voted for
Congressmen and State officers in four
states. In Wyoming they have had full
suffrage for twenty-nine years in Colorado
for five, in Utah and Idaho for two. In
Idaho where the women took part in a
national election for the first time the dis-
patches say they showed great interest and
voted in large numbers but not “on parti-
san lines.” Everywhere women show a
marked tendency to vote for the best man,
irrespective of party.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav- 
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN- 
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the right of the logo]
Only 73 Hours

SALT LAKE to NEW YORK.
	By a recent change in schedule the
Overland Limited of the Union Pacific
and North-western in connection with
the L S & M. S. and N. Y. C. & H. R.
R. R., now makes the unparalleled
time record of only three days to New
York. Train leaves Salt Lake 7:00 a.
m., Ogden 8:10 a. m. daily, arrives Chi-
cago 7:45 a. m. and Grand Central
depot, New York City, 10:35 a. m.,
second and third days respectively. 
Only one change of cars and twelve
hours quickest time.
	For purchase of tickets and reser-
vation of berths, call at the “Old 
Stand,” 201 Main Street, or address
H. M. Clay, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

