IN RURAL ENGLAND.
IX.

	In those times, the long ago, traveling was
vastly different to what it is nowadays, and
one who journeyed in "slow coaches" could suit
his convenience or his temper; if indeed his
coachman made no strenuous objection, and
Sir Edward Hilliard was Master, as well as
Baronet; it was seldom any one interfered with
his rights, or privileges, or even to speak in
self-defense if he became enraged. No woman
had ever been as self-possessed with him as his
niece Jane, and from her he appeared to ex-
pect the independence of manhood.
	The sturdy, well-fed horses and the old coach
jogged along through the country roads; both
the young ladies were totally absorbed with
their own peculiar thoughts and conditions;
Anna was desperately in love, and Jane knew
not what to think of the declaration so per-
emptorily made by the quiet Dr. to whom she
had gone with perfect confidence for advice in
the dilemma she found herself placed on her
cousin's account. To whom could she go now,
every avenue was closed. Her uncle was heart-
less and resentful; Lady Walton had only
softened him temporarily her presence had been
the magnet; and after meeting the boy, her son,

[Column 2]

he had been more hardened still. There were
many things to be considered, Jane felt as-
sured that young Walton would follow them
to Italy, and she would be at a loss to know how
to protect her cousin. If a man as old as Dr.
Bland and with the training his profession had
given him would show such impetuosity as he
had with her, who had never given him the
slightest reason to think she cared for him,
what might not this determined young lover
do, whom she realized had been given every
encouragement from her innocent and unsus-
pecting cousin. Jane almost regretted leav-
ing the life of toil and poverty that had seemed
her fate at her mother's death, to be thrown
unprepared as she found herself into a whirl
of untoward circumstances, without authority,
or previous experience in such affairs. Re-
luctantly she answered her cousin, who was the
the first to break the silence, though her con-
science reproached her when she remembered
how much more ignorant than her years was this
fair girl, because of her lack of discipline and
womanly companionship. Her own head ached
and Anna complained, and bemoaned the cruel
fate that was separating her from her beloved
Maitland, as she realized they were going farther
and farther away.
	The days dragged on drearily and the
Baronet grew more morose and sullen when
weary with his journey; the channel was rough
when they crossed to France, Anna was very
ill, and her maid was seasick too, and the
whole responsibility fell upon Jane. When
they reached the south of France the weather
was brighter, and the air purer, and the spirit
of at least one of the party grew more con-
tent.
	They were nearing their journey's end, and
there was something to look forward to, though
her uncle still scolded and swore vehemently
and sometimes declared he should die, and
blamed Anna for it all, and "that rascally son
of a rascally father." Patience and endurance
on the part of the uncomplaining niece and
the tears and sobs of his only daughter were
lost upon this irritable old man, who grew
more unbearable day by day.
	They reached Italy at last and found a suit-
able place to winter in, but almost as soon as
they were fairly housed, acquaintances of Sir
Edward's called and invitations to go here
and there poured in; the girls had no heart for
company and the Baronet was almost rude to
his old friends. But when the worst has come
and things get to a crisis a change is inevit-
able, and so it proved in this case. Sir Edward
was taken seriously ill, and Dr. Bland was
sent for, but meantime other physicians were
summoned who pronounced his condition criti-
cal. Jane was attentive and followed out as
near as possible the instructions of the Dr.
under whom she had previously nursed, but
no change for the better resulted; and worn
out with watching and anxiety she was ready
to sink with fatigue, when late one night, after
weeks of weary waiting Dr. Bland arrived;
then she felt that relief had come; the Baronet
had been delirious much of the time and
raved incoherently but now and then Jane un-
derstood it was of Helen he talked, and would
call her to come to him. Never of his wife
or his daughter, and she felt how utterly
barren his life had been, and how destitute
of love and a real home her beautiful cousin,
and her heart softened towards her greatly.
It was good for Jane Conway to have these
sympathetic feelings; she had known the fulness
of love in her early home, and it was some
compensation now to remember the sweetness
of it and it made her more compassionate
towards Anna.
	The Baronet grew worse, but Dr. Bland
succeeded in rallying his scattered senses
sufficiently to know him, and to ask him a
few questions to which he gave straight-

[Column 2]

forward answers; he however insisted on the
Dr's maintaining secrecy from the young
ladies, and wanted no interference from women
folks.
	Waiting in expectancy of death is at all
times a fearful thing, but these two women
far from home, were indeed forlorn, their
only hope for advice lay in Dr. Bland, and
Jane felt the greatest reluctance now to lean
upon him. She had not been willing to trust
herself to speak to him of ordinary matters,
their only conversation had been of her uncle.
Anna leaned wholly upon her more self-
reliant cousin, she would scarcely have been
aware of her father's serious condition had it
not been for the servants; they talked
incessantly of the expected yet dreaded crisis,
until sometimes she would be quite hysterical
and once or twice she had swooned away from
terror, so vividly would they picture the
harrowing scenes. It was a new experience
for her and she longed to hide herself away
from it all; she had written several times to
Maitland but no answer had come as yet and
her very life seemed desolate. Accustomed to
her father's indifference she did not seem to
think it strange that she was never sent for,
and Jane was so engrossed in her duties as
nurse that she seldom had time to think how
lonely her cousin must be, shut up in the
house with only the servants for companions.
The girls had both looked forward to some
gaiety when they were fairly settled and now
how changed was the programme. If Jane
had only spoken out to the Dr. things might
have been different, but her fears lest she
should hold out any encouragement to the Dr.
to speak seriously of his affection, restrained
her from asking help in the time of greatest
need.
	Finally the Dr. himself broke the ice, by
coming upon her suddenly one morning early
as she was out taking a little breath of fresh
air, of which she stood so much in need, with
her constant watching and anxiety, for she
was indispensable to her uncle, though he had
skillfully trained nurses to attend him.
	"At last" exclaimed Dr. Bland without
even a good morning "now you shall not escape
me until I have told you that I cannot go on
living without an answer from you, you should
pity me if nothing more, wearied with long
waiting for some one to love me!" So sudden
were these ejaculations uttered, that Jane had
only voice to say "merci!" But as she did so
Dr. Bland caught the expression of her eyes,
and his heart yearned toward her with an
indefinable feeling of pain, remembering how
utterly alone in the world was this cold and
"proper" young woman. Pale and troubled
she turned away without speaking more "and
you would leave me without another word,
stay, if only for one brief moment, speak to
me." She hesitated but stood like one
petrified, she could not even think so embarrass-
ing was the situation; just then a messenger
approached and mercifully for Jane the
painful interview was over. The servant had
been looking for them through the house,
"his master was worse, the nurse thought him
dying," and quickly the Dr. strode up the
walk and the stairway to the room, where lay
the sufferer; Jane could not summon courage
to enter her uncle's apartments with him after
what had transpired, and yet she knew her
duty lay in that direction; how difficult now
seemed the path of duty, and yet she had
insisted upon others being firm and brave
under all circumstances; how poor her judg-
ment seemed when she was the one interested
but there was no time for brooding, Anna
caught hold of her and like one in despair
begged her to go with her she could not go
alone. Mechanically like one in a dream she
followed her cousin, but when they reached
the doorway, they knew by the look upon the


faces of those around that it was over. A
moment gazing on the bed and both turned to
go, the Dr. came forward and said, 'come in
he is quiet now, no more raving, no more pain
he has gone into the great unknown, he lead
Lady Anna almost stunned as she was and
her cousin walked by her side with the same
stately bearing as ever. No more was said,
the attendants were preparing to close the
doors Miss Conway took her cousin by the
arm and whispered "let us go," and together
they left the chamber of death. The orphaned
girl did not realize her position, she was
thinking less of the dead than the living, she
had scarcely known her father, and could not
be expected to grieve now; it was however a
peculiar experience for them both, and Jane
went over in her mind the list of relatives
who must be notified and what would be
expected of her; she needed sleep and rest,
and while she waited her thoughts flew far
away to her dear old England, and the old
tumbling down house and she wondered were
they to return there or what was to be their
fate?
	We will not dwell upon the harrowing
details of the time that hung so heavily on
the hands of Lady Anna and Miss Conway;
but Maitland Walton found them not know-
ing what had happened and his presence
consoled Anna in her days of mourning;
Jane began to feel that she had been too
mistrustful now that she knew him better;
and it was a relief to her that he could amuse
and entertain her cousin, while she was
engaged upon more important matters. Sir
Edward's solicitor had come over and though
the will was not yet made public, she had
been made aware of some of its contents, and
had been asured she was not left penniless.
The Dr. almost wished she had been, then he
might have hoped she would one day sit
beside his hearthstone, and make the sunlight
of his dreary house. But he felt he would
wait and see whether independent as she
seemed, she would not yet need him.
	After Sir Edward had been laid in the
tomb at Ravenna, and it became necessary
for Mr. Burke the solicitor and Dr. Bland to
return to England, they were anxious to know
if the young ladies wished to go or to remain
until the winter was over; they talked over
the matter and finally decided that it was
Burke's place to speak as he had still charge
of the Baronet's affairs, and their interests.
	Mr Burke felt some delicacy in approach-
ing the subject, and suggested that Mr. Walton
pave the way, to which Dr. Bland assented
willingly. It proved easy for the young man;
and so matters were soon arranged and the
journey undertaken, the only drawback being
that Maitland must not travel with them.
Miss Conway could not be persuaded to consent
to that. The young ladies were in deep
mourning dress,though there was little mourn-
ing in their hearts, and the journey was per-
formed with outany notable incident.
	The coming home however was more
embarrasing; the servants were demonstrative
and the whole place in confusion; all the
establishment seemed to think it their
imperative duty to make a display of their
bereavement and to vie with each other in its
positive expression.


