WEBER COUNTY.
	The Woman Suffrage Association held its
regular meeting in the Third Ward Assembly
Hall, Ogden Feb 11th 1891. A suitable prayer
was offered by the Hon. F. D. Richards, previous
minutes read and approved.
	Pres. E. Y. Stanford stated that as this was
our annual meeting for the election of officers
she would briefly report the labors and doings
of the association the past year. Regular
meetings had been held which were usually
well attended. Able and interesting addresses
had been delivered by ladies as well as gentle-
men, and she believed that a better under-
standing was now being reached by both sexes
on the subject of Woman's Suffrage, and that
the question was growing in lavor and
popularity. We have had good support from
some of our prominent male friends in this
County. On Monday last we organized an
association in Huntsville with 36 members.
The officers were duly installed and we had
an enthusiastic and enjoyable time. My many
duties and health, however  are such that a
few weeks ago I tendered my resignation but
consented to continue to act until this meeting.
While I retire from the charge of this associa-
tion after a service of three years, my
sympathies are with the cause and I shall
still give it all the support and encouragement
my feeble ability and efforts will admit of.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards of the Territorial
Central Committee here took the chair
tendered her, and called upon Hon F. S.
Richards who in an able manner explained the
object and aims of women in establishing these
Associations, space however forbids an extend-
ed reference to the many good things refered
to. The effort was most appreciatively received
by the audience.
	The chair then announced that the meeting
would proceed to the election of officers for the
organization of an association for Ogden City
instead of Weber County as it was designed to
organize these associations in all the towns
and settlements in the County where desired
by the people. On motion the Chair
appointed the following named ladies a
committee on nomination Mrs. L. Farr, H.
Brown, Jane S. Richards, E. Y. Stanford and
L. M. Richards. In the absence of the
committee to consult Mrs. F. S. Richards,
addressed, he meeting. "As women we need
to be better informed on all public questions.
The young ladies, are not so interested as they
should be in the suffrage. As we have to
appear in public we have to educate ourselves
in public duties. It is not politics that
degrade man,but man too frequently degrades
politics. Woman is not so much weaker than
man, compare her duties with his and her
physical strength in many respects is equal.
In many departments in public service women
should be called upon to do duty. A police
matron is a very necessary officer, woman
should take charge of woman her sex demands
it, but she is diffident and backward."
	The committee announced their readiness
to report and the following names were
submitted. Miss Roseltha Canfield President,
Mrs Kate S. Hilliard 1st Vice Pres., Mrs.

[Column 2]

Annie Dyer Taylor 2nd Vice Pres., Miss
Lizzie M. Stanford Sec'y, Mrs. Ella
Woodmansee Treas. Miss Canfield positively
declini g the nomination, the committee
substituted the name of Mrs. Hattie Brown for
Pres. Each name was then presented in the
order named by the nominating committee and
unanimously sustained by the vote of the
meeting.
	The Chair then stated that it would be
necessary to appoint a County Central
Committee when it was suggested that rs-
presentatives from each settlement be nominat-
ed a committee, to present the names of those
ladies to be voted upon to constitute said
committee. The suggestion was made a
motion and the call of the roll represented as
present Huntsville 6 delegates, Slaterville 2,
Harrisville 5, North Ogden 6, Riverdale 7,
Lynne 3, Marriot 9, Mound Fort 2, Wilson
Lane 1, and a large delegation from Ogden.
The following ladies were elected said
committee, Mrs. J. S. Richards, E. Y, Stanford
and L. M. Richards.
	Short but interesting speeches were then
made by Mr. D. McKay, Mrs. Stanford,
Mrs. Brown, J. S. Richards and L. M. Richards
when the meeting terminated.
