SHAKESPEARE'S BIRTHPLACE.

	Just as many a Californian allows the
foreigner to out-strip him in visiting the
glorious world-famed Yosemite Valley, so
there are numbers of Englishmen who have
never seen the birthplace of the immortal
Shakespeare, although it is a place of pil-
grimage to the many Americans who flock
annually to the Continent of Europe.
	Stratford on Avon, in the County of War-
wick, is situated in the very heart of England;
in the midst of scenery breathing peace and
contentment.
	The surrounding country is generally flat,
and might be considered tame but for the mag-
nigcent growth of trees which greet one on
every side, and which add a sylvan loveliness
to historical associations.
	The town itself is like many another in the
midland counties and has the same sleepy look
as though its people were quite content to re-
main a hundred years behind their neighbors
and in fact prefer jogging along at their own
easy-going rate to joining in the mad rush for
wealth that characterizes the large cities. Con-
sidering the world-wide fame of the Warwick-
shire poet, it is strange how comparatively
little is known of him with any certainty; this
much we know however that he was born
April 23, 1564, that he was in all probability
educated at the Grammer School, that when
very young he married Anne Hathaway, a
maiden of the neighboring village of Shottery,
a union which proved unhappy, that a few
years later he went to London in order to es-

[Column 2]

cape prosecution at the hands of Sir Thomas
Lucy,—on whose estate of Charlecote, Shake-
speare had been poaching, that in the Metro-
polis he won fame and fortune first as an
actor, then as a writer of plays; that in 1579 he
purchased a goodly sized house in his native
town, to which he subsequently retired, and
which proved the scene of his death in the year
1616. The houses of Stratford are substantially
built, and give one the idea that there is more
opulence than poverty amongst the towns-peo-
ple, a well-to-do air pervading the place. The
principal hotel is noticable as having all its
rooms named after the different Shakespearian
plays; thus the love sick swain may sweetly
dream in teh "Romeo and Juliet" room, and
the ambitious and secretly blood-thirsty ruffian
may take uneasy slumber in the room desig-
nated "Richard III." The house in which
Shakespeare was born is in Kenley St. and at
no great distance from the Great Western Rail-
way Station. Of it Washington Irving wrote
"It is a small, mean edifice of wood and plaster
a true resting place of genius which seems to
delight in hatching its offspring in by-corners."
This however does not describe the building at
the present time, for after having been fre-
quently half-ruined by repairs carelessly exe-
cuted, it has at length been restored to some
thing resembling its original condition, and its
appearance now tallies with the fact that the
poet's father was a man of some means in his
generation.
	The front door leads into a small kitchen,
in which there is a large old-fashioned English
fire-place, with the cosy ingle nook now out
of date. There are two other rooms on this
floor, but it was in a small room upstairs that
the great Shakespeare first saw the light of day
and thither we wend our way. The few pieces
of furniture call for no notice as they never be-
longed to the poet, but the walls scribbled over
with names remind us of the round chamber
in the Tower of London, that prison of William
Wallace where signatures of high and low are
seen side by side. Turning to the window we
see scratched on the glass the autograph of the
great Sir Walter Scott. The rest of the house
is used as a museum and amongst the curiosities
to be found there is a jug which belonged to
the poet, also a chair which he used at his
club; a gold signet ring bearing his initials;
some wood from the mulberry tree that he
planted in the garden of New Place, and the
juice of the fruit preserved in a small bottle.
	Leaving Shakespeare's house behind us we
enter High St., containing a rich collection of
old gabled houses, one of which bears the date
1596. A little further, and we come to New
Place where the poet died.
	Sad to say, nothing remains of the house
but some of the foundation stones, carefully
netted over with wire; the reason of this being
that a subsequent owner first cut down the
mulberry tree planted by Shakespeare, and
then a few years later razed the house to the
ground, because the rates were too high; a
piece of Vandalism which must cause the name
of Frances Gastrell to be execrated by all de-
votees at the shrine of genius.
	In the garden of New Place is a picturesque
ivy-covered well, at which, the cicerone informs
the traveler, every American stops to drink,
but whether to receive inspiration thereby, or
to slake his thirst is unkown.
	The Shakespeare Memorial next attracts
our attention by its somewhat too showy ex


terior which to a thinking mind seems out of
keeping with the great intellect of the man to
whose memory the monumental building has
been erected. It contains however a pretty
theatre, and sundry rooms devoted to different
branches of Shakespearian study, and from its
tower a fine view can be obtained.
	Last but not least of the gems of Stratford
is the Church with most beautiful avenues of
lime and elm partly hiding its gray walls from
view and which add a softened beauty to the
resting place of the great poet. It is in the
Chancel, within the communion table railing
that Shakespeare lies, and on the slab that re-
cords his name, is written in old English

	"Good frend, for Jesus sake forbeare
	To digge the dust encloased heare;
 	Bleste be ye man yt spares thes stones,
	And curst be he yt moves my bones."

	To the right of Shakespeare lies his wife
Anne Hathaway, and his favorite daughter
with her husband and child lie close by.
A walk of a mile brings the traveler to the
village of Shottery where the poet went a
wooing in youth's golden morning, and as we
tread the path across the fields which it is
said Shakespeare himself took many years ago
we cannot help thinking how fair this country
of England is, and presently when a rosy
cheeked lassie comes tripping along, we can-
not help adding, "and how fair its women are,"
for,

	With downcast eyes and look demure,
 	And yet withal so sweet and pure—
	A pleasant picture doth she make:
 	Enough for any man to stake
	His happiness upon.

But away with soliloquy, for here is the
picturesque though humble cottage which
marks the last leaf in the diary of a trip to
the land of Shakespeare. Again we look on
a small kitchen with ingle-nook, and then
mounting the rickety stairs are shown the
room in which Anne Hathaway was born and
a frame containing some of her needle-work.
After duly satisfying our eyes with the treas-
ures of the interior, we enter the old-fashioned
garden, that we may take a draught of water
from the well whence the lovers extracted
nectar long ago, and then we bid a reluctant
farewell to this the heart of Merry England.
