SALT LAKE COUNTY. 
	The regular monthly meeting of the Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A. was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Rooms, Feb. 16, 1892. Pres. Eliza-
beth Howard in the chair. Opened by sing-
ing from the Suffrage Song Book "O come,
come away." Prayer by Mary A. Freeze.
Roll called. After which 14 new members
were voted in; as no programme had been
prepared Pres. Howard said she would be
pleased to hear from the ladies present.
Dr. E. S. Barney read a sketch,—Some of
the reasons why it is necessary for women to
be interested in obtaining the power of the
ballot.
	Elizabeth McFarlane said she would be
pleased to see our young ladies come out and
educate themselves to hold the positions that
await them; experience gives us education.
Women are the peacemakers of the world,
they have fought many bloodless wars. Spoke
of the work accomplished by the great women
in India in settling the slave question; and the
blood that might have been spared had our
own Government accepted the advice of our
women. It has been estimated that had the
bodies of men killed in the late war been put
into coffins and placed end to end they
would have made a complete band around the
world. Spoke of the steps being taken by our
women to prevent war with Chili, and related
other interesting instances of history on the
same subject.
	Miss Louie Poulten favored us with a song
which was beautifully rendered; and for which
she received a hearty vote of thanks.
	M. Isabella Horne said, I desire all to under-
stand I am in favor of the elevation of woman.
Since the death of our Savior men have
oppressed women more and more and tried to
keep them in ignorance. We can see how
rapidly she advances when she is allowed some-
thing of the same opportunities and privileges
as men. Spoke of the honor shown to women
of the Scriptures; women have more real
courage, as strong minds and intellects as their
brothers. A gentleman once told her that God
made man first, "I answered, yes but He im-
proved very much in his second manufacture.
I was invited to attend a debate on this subject
by a party of young men and women, the argu-
ments were very interesting." Also referred
to an article in our last EXPONENT.
	Vice Pres. Louise K. Spencer made a few
pleasing and encouraging remarks.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, "I hope you will
steadily increase in numbers and intelligence;
let us continually bear in mind that we have
duties to others as well as ourselves, if we have
all the rights we care, for there are many who
have not.
	Elizabeth Price made some remarks in re-
gard to the suffrage entertainment of the pre-
vious evening.
	Vice Pres. Phebe C. Young, "I think suf-
frage ladies should be minute women and al-
ways prepared to say or do something when
called on," related in a very interesting man-
ner a sketch of the life of Empress Josephine.
	Emma Finch 20th, and Julia Ridges 22nd
wards, were appointed to act as agents of the
suffrage society in their own wards.
	Pres. Howard, had been greatly pleased


[Column 1]

with the exercises of the day and with the en-
tertainment on the previous evening. "The
other day in looking over one of my old
journals, it was recalled to my mind that I had
the privilege of dining with Acting Governor
Mann on the day he had signed the bill grant-
ing suffrage to the women of Utah; when he
told me he had done so, I arose to my feet and
in my feeble way thanked him in the name of
the women of Utah for having done so.
	Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in March at the same hour and place.
			M. A. CAINE, Ass't. Sec.

