EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:
	It seems as though it would be doing an
injustice to the many friends (who reside in
Utah, adjoining Territories and Mexico) of
the worthy dead, not to give notice of her
demise through the columns of your valuable
paper which she esteemed so highly.
	Susanne Smith Adams daughter of Anthony
Smith and Sarah Mahurau Smith Meeks.
Was born 30th May 1819 in Grason County,
Kentucky. In the fall of 1834 she moved to
Morgan County Ill., where she became
acquainted with Orson B. Adams to whom
she was married on the 20th of March, 1836.
In the fall of the same year she moved to
Brown Co., Ill. where in connection with her
husband she embraced the Gospel in March
1840. In 1842 they went to Nauvoo where
sha lived until 1846. Then she started West
with her husband, crossed the Missouri River
on the 18th of June and arrived at Council
Bluffs on the 16th of July.
	There her husband volunteered in the U. S.
Service to go to Mexico in defense of his
country. Her wish was to go also that she
might share his burdens in that memorable
campaign. Consent was obtained, and she
packed what little wearing apparel she had in
a pillow slip, and started on that toilsome
journey through a wilderness country with
but two quilts for bedding. Without a
murmur she waited daily on the sick,
administering comfort and cheer to all around
her. On the 12th of October she arrived at
Santa Fe, rested five days and took up the
line of march for California. In the Spring
of 1847 she arrived at Fort John, (now
Laramie,) there it was learned that the Pioneers
were a few days ahead. Following their
trail for 510 miles her company reached the
Valley. Just in sight and within three miles
of the Pioneer's camp they had quite a time of
rejoicing. Traveling down to City Creek, a
short distance below the Pioneer's Camp she
pitched her tent on the 28th of July 1847.
Thanking God for the Oasis of the Desert,
and acknowledg ing Him for the good health
and protecting care she had enjoyed during
her weary travels with the Battalion and into
the valley. She was now prepared to continue
her labors in connection with her husband, as
the servants of God might direct. In 1848
Bro. Adams raised 20 bushels of wheat which
was much appreciated by her, having lived
the first Winter and Spring on roots and
greens.
	They now made a home on Mill Creek
where they lived quite comfortable until
Dec. 1851; then they were called to Iron Co.
where they arrived on the 14th of Feb. 1852.
Here for the third time she had her name
enrolled as a member of the Relief Society;
having been a member of that organization in
Nauvoo and also in Great Salt Lake. In
1854 she was set apart by Apostle Geo. A.
Smith to wait upon her sex in sickness. For
thirty eight years she humbly pursued her
calling with great success. Putting her trust
in God she stimulated the faith of those with
whom she labored—bringing peace, joy and
good cheer to all among whom she administered.
In the fall of 1865 she moved to Harrisburgh
Washington County, and in 1866 the Relief
Society was organized in that place, and she


was chosen President, and acted in that
capacity till 1877, when she resigned on
account of ill health and the frequent calls
from the sick. In 1883 her health was
somewhat improved and in March of that
year she was chosen by Sister E. Laney as her
first Counselor which position she held up to
the time of her death, which occured at 10
p. m. on the 23rd of January 1892 at her
residence in Harrisburgh, Utah, after a
protracted sickness with but little pain or
suffering, she passed away without a struggle.
She leaves a husband one daughter and an
adopted son, twenty-three grand-children five
great grand-children, her mother also survives
her and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
	Just previous to her departure from this
life, she called her son-in-law by name, and
urged him to use his best endeavors to direct
the energies and strength of her grand-children
in those channels that would best promote the
interests of the Work of God, in which cause
she had labored nothing doubting for nearly
50 years. Funeral services were held at Leeds
Meeting House where the largest gathering
that had met there for years, assembled to pay
their last respects to the one they loved so well.
Consoling remarks were made by Counselor
Leatham and Elders Steel, Doge, and
Spillsbury.
	All spoke in the highest terms of her many
virtues and unswerving integrity for the
Cause of Truth.
			L. W.


