AN ABLE APPEAL.
	[To the World’s Fair Committee of the Utah
Legislature.]
	Tuesday morning Feb. 16, there was a meeting
of the legislative joint committee and the ladies’
committee on the World’s Fair, at the Knutsford
Hotel, the object being to discuss Utah’s need of
an appropriation for the Columbian Exposition.
Hon. Joseph Morrell presided.
	Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury read the following
paper in support of the appropriation of the sum
of $100,000:
	“The board of lady managers of the World’s
Columbian commission desire to develop to the
fullest extent the grand possibilities that have
been placed in their hands by the united action of
Congress, the management of the exposition and
the authorities of the various States and Terri-
tories.
	In behalf of the women of Utah we have the
pleasure to state that thousands of petitioners
from the several counties have sent their appeals
to the Legislature of Utah, now in session, for an
appropriation of $100,000 to properly represent
our Territory at the World’s Fair in Chicago. We
beg to supplement their petitions by our earnest
request that your honorable committee will ap-
prove and recommend such liberal appropriation
of money for this object as will be commensurate
with the dignity, richness, magnitude, productive-
ness and moneyed capabilities of Utah. The wo-
men of Utah are engaged in branches of industry
and we wish to make the best possible showing of
their achievements in every line of labor, educa-
tional, artistic, literary, benevolent, economic. It
is important that we show the bread-winners, who
are fighting unaided the battle of life, the wider
opportunities awaiting them, and what training
will best enable them to seize those opportunities
and make their work of the greatest value not
only to themselves, but to the world. In order to
accomplish these aims in Utah, it will be neces-
sary to thoroughly organize every county so that
a systematic canvass may be made as to the con-
dition of industrial women, their productions and
earnings, whether in the studio, counting house,
schoolroom, factory, mill, dairy, or the farm.
	From the information we have gathered on
these subjects we feel encouraged to assure you
that the women of Utah will meet their sisters of
the different States and Territories in a manner
highly creditable to the energy, intelligence and
talent which characterize the women of the West.
Of the women of Utah there are twelve who have
published one or more books, and several books
are now in preparation, and two newpapers are
published by women. The Salt Lake Tribune,
Herald, the Standard, of Ogden, employ women


writers. We have many excellent musicians, a
few artists in oil paintings, water colors, etc.
Some talented women are now studying abroad. 
Exquisite work is done in China painting,crayon,
beautiful laces, fine needle etc. Silk culture, 
which has been quite an industry in this Territory,
deserves to be encouraged and developed. There
are lawyers and physicians, also, thoroughly edu-
cated women teachers in the public and denomi-
national schools; also in many charitable institu-
tions. In printing offices and bookbinderies large
numbers of women are employed. Women are
also engaged in dairy work. We would add  that
women pay a fair proportion of the taxes. In
consideration of the earnest work being done in
all these branches by women, we again urgently
rqeuest that the legislatnre will generously enable
Utah to make a creditable exhibit of her wond-
rous products and industries at the World’s Fair
in 1893.
	Respectfully,
	MARGARET B. SALISBURY,
	ALICE J. WHALEN,
	Lady Managers for Utah.
	The ladies of the Committee present with Mrs.
Salisbury were Mrs. Alice J. Whalen, Mrs. Judge
Bennett, Mrs. C. W. Lyman, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. E. S. Richards, .Mrs. G. H. Young, Mrs. M.
B. Cannon.
	Mrs. Wells answered some pertinent questions
propounded by the Legislature and Mrs. Richards
made a short speech in which she stated it was
the first opportunity given to women by the  gov-
ernment to make a representation and she felt
Utah had been sufficiently misrepresented, &c.


