SUSAN B. ANTHONY’S BIRTHDAY.

Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball the President of the N.
A. W. S. A. of Utah Ter. called a meeting of the
officers of the Association and took preliminary
steps towards celebrating in a characteristic
manner the anniversary of Miss Susan B.
Anthony’s birthday in Entertainment Hall in the
15th Ward of this City.
The hall was handsomely decorated and a very
elegant banner hung over the speaker’s desk with
the motto in embossed letters “Taxation Without
Representation is Tyranny,” on one side the
picture of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and on the
other Susan B. Anthony, flowers and flags in pro-
fusion, the lone star of Wyoming occupying a
conspicuous place, and over all waved the
national stars and stripes. Mrs.Emily S. Richards
acted as mistress of ceremonies, relieving Mrs.
Kimball from the care to occupy the seat of honor.
The exercises opened with the song “Help the
working women,” from the “Utah Woman Suf-
frage Song Book.” Invocation by Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard. Song, “Equal Rights.” 
The opening address was by the President,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, and was in her usual
original style, making some strong points in re-
gard to woman’s position, in a style peculiarly
her own, Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze gave a telling
sketch of the life of Susan B. Anthony, National
President of the N. A. W. S. A. Reading“Only a
Girl” by Mrs. C. Louise Boyden an accomplished
elocutionist. Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a sketch of
“Woman’s Work” or “What Some Women Have
Done,” mentioning Zenobia’ Hypatia, Aspasia,
Martia, and at a later time Elizabeth of England,
Joan of Arc, Isabella of Castile, Maria Theresa, 
Catharine of Russia, Margaret of Austria, and
the good and great Queen Victoria of our own
time.
Recitation, “The Brave Ones at Home,” Mrs.
Elizabeth Mc’Farlane. A poem by Mrs. Emily
H. Woodmansee was read by Mrs. Nellie Cole-
brook Taylor, followed by a song by Thomas
Ashworth “As I sat upon my dear old Mother’s
knee.”
Short speeches were made by Pres. Joseph F.

[Column 2]
Smith, Pres. Angus M Cannon, Hon. Wm. Seeg
miller, member of Ter. Legislature, Hon. Wm. H.
King, Pres. of the Council, the gentlemen all
spoke of woman’s influence and their high appre-
ciation of womanliness and motherhood express-
ing the wish that women might be privileged in the
near future to enjoy equal political rights with
men, referring to the time when the women of
this Territory voted and the manner in which they
lost the franchise; after which the refreshment
Committee announced supper, and all repaired to
the lower hall where an elegant repast was spread
and the guests were waited upon by pretty young
girls in caps with yellow ribbons and white
aprons with rosettes of the same “suffrage” color.
The members of the Association all  wore their 
badges and bows of yellow ribbon and the spoons
and cutlery used were also tied with a knot of
dainty yellow ribbon. The tables were decorated
with ivy and smilax in a tasteful manner. After
supper there was music and social conversation,
and a recitation by President Joseph E. Taylor,
upon woman and her mission on this earth, com-
posed many years ago and written in a lady’s
album, by the late President of the Church Elder
John Taylor. A song by Mrs. Maggie Hull was
sweetly sung, “Edinboro Toon” with the true
Scotch accent and her beautiful and melodious
voice touched the hearts of all.
Benediction was pronounced by Counselor N.
V. Jones.
During the early part of the evening the Presi-
dent received the following telegram  from Miss
Anthony in answer to an invitation or ticket for
the party sent to her at Rochester.
	Rochester, N. Y., Feb. 15, ’92.
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
Entertainment Hall 15th Ward.
Greetings dear friends that our Citizens Right
to vote may soon be secured is the prayer of your
Co-worker.
	Susan B. Anthony.

