DO SOMETHING.

	This was the watchword with which the
National Woman's Press Association called a
meeting at Willards, to discuss the subject of
the Russian Famine, with its attendant
matters; the grain contributions of the west,
the need of ships, and the desire to help in any
and every possible way. Mrs. E. M. S.
Marble stated the object of the meeting in a
spicy speech of two minutes, into which her
breathless articulation compressed the expres-
sion of sympathy, the out reaching generosity,
the utter mortification, degradation and
indignation of the people, who were so
hindered and hampered by the unaccountable
action of the House of (non) Representatives.
Clara Barton then spoke of what was needed,
and refuted the statements that the Red Cross
Association had made any "appeal," also the
newspaper announcements that money had
been raised and sent to her. She said that the
amount of grain already offered could be
quadrupled in three weeks, if only some means
for shipping it could be assured. She also
stated that Russia was entirely willing to accept
this. No feeling of pride or resentment stood
in the way. Russia's people were starving,
and the government was doing all in its
power. Many officials, including the Legation
here, had donated their salaries—(a good
suggestion for our Representatives.) But it
must be remembered that the very cause of
the famine, was also a cause of decreased
revenues, and do all they could, the home
government could not do all that was needed
and without hesitation, Russia would accept
any help for her suffering people.
	Mrs. Joanna Turner read some extracts from
the London Spectator, and spoke with great
earnestness.
	Ex. Governor Hoyt of Wyoming, was
introduced as "Woman's Friend," a title
which he said was the proudest he had ever
had conferred on him. He then outlined the
plan of the committee for sending help to
Russia, of which he is chairman, and spoke
enthusiastically of what is being done, and of
the power which can be wielded by the press
in arousing public sentiment, and crystalliz-
ing the universal desire to contribute toward
the cause. He modestly alluded to his own
position, and the efforts being made by the
committee, and read a stirring appeal, which
had been prepared to be sent to clergymen, to


follow up those already issued to Governors,
Mayors, and Boards of Trade. He had no
stint of praise for Miss Barton, the Red Cross,
and the people who had already so eagerly
come forward with help and encouragement,
and showed no doubt of the ultimate result.
			Ex.


