HALF A CENTURY.
The Relief Society Jubilee which will be cele-
brated March 17, 1892, is now near at hand.
Letters are coming in from various quarters, and
also verbal communications asking if there is any
special instructions in reference to what shall be
done on that day. The Presidency of the Relief
Society in the Circular issued, gave a general out-
line of what would be expected and left the de-
tails to those who preside in the several wards
and localities, to act according to circumstances
and surroundings and be guided by the sug-
gestions of the spirit to them. It would be
agreeable to the President, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young if in each place where there is a celebra-
tion, in the order of their exercises the beautiful
hymn “O, my Father thou that dwellest” by Eliza
R. Snow should be included.
	The sketches of the Relief Society that are
prepared should be historical, and correct in de-
tailing such facts as are used, as it is anticipated
that all these will be collected or called in, and
compiled, or such matter collated from them, as
will form a complete history of the Relief Society
in all its branches and in all lands. There should
be two copies made by each Society that one
may be preserved by the Society and placed in
its record and the other one forwarded to the
Central Board, when it shall be called for.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
will be held in the Fourteenth ward assembly
rooms on Friday, March 11, 1892. Meetings will
begin at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, is desirous that
each branch in the Stake should be represented
by one or more of the respective officers, as there
will likely be business of importance to present,
and special advice given relating to the Relief
Society Jubilee that is to be celebrated on the

[Column 2]
17th of March, wherever there is an organization
of this society in all lands, it being fifty years
since the first society was organized by President
Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, Ill., March 17, 1842.

	On Feb. 10, a few ladies met by invitation
at the residence of Sister Julia C. Howe and en-
joyed a pleasant afternoon and evening in social
converse, a delicious dinner was elegantly served
in the most hospitable manner. Mrs. Howe is a
charming hostess, and understands how to delight
her guests, her house has been a favorite resort
for years past, though one by one several of those
who were wont to gather there have gone behind
the vail. We miss their genial faces when we
come together on these occasions, but we know
our loss is their gain, and it teaches the lesson of
appreciation to those who remain. Sister Howe
makes her guests feel so much at ease, that they
are loth to say good night when the hour of part-
ing comes.

	The Relief Society of the Seventh Ward held
its annual meeting Wednesday Feb. 17, Mrs M.
A. Lambert presiding. Bishop Wm. Thorne and
his Counselor Wm. McLachlin were present also
a goodly number of the Society. Visitors present
were Pres. M. I. Horne, and her Counselor E. S.
Taylor, also E. B. Wells. The report of the
Society was very creditable, and showed that the
President and her board had been active and
efficient in their management. Pres. Horne and
the other visiting ladies each addressed the meet-
ing in turn and Pres. Lambert also spoke a short
time. The subjects treated upon were the general
and active work of the sisters organizations, their
advancement in knowledge and intelligence; the
necessity of bringing the younger women forward
in the ranks, the mother’s great responsibility, the
mission of women in the home and in society,
the saving of grain, the coming Jubilee, etc.
After the meeting was dismissed the Society and
Bishop repaired to the R. S. hall in the building
where a sumptuous repast was served to all.
In the evening there was a party in honor of
Sister Annie Dinwoody who was about to leave
the ward having built a new house in another part
of the City. 
	On the 19th of February the ladies of the 19th
ward met in the lower hall of the new meeting
house, Mrs. C. C. R. Wells in the chair, the ob-
ject of the meeting being to diffuse information
and to increase an interest in the subject of equal
political rights and privileges. Mrs. Edwardas cted
as secretary. The meeting opened with singing
from the Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book
and prayer was offered by Mrs. Ann E. Neal.
Dr. Elvira S. Barney read some suffrage notes by
great men and women and commented upon
them in an original manner. Mrs. Sarah Howard
Pres. of a branch of the W. S. A. at South Bounti-
ful, made a short speech, also Mrs. A. J Croche-
ron well known as a literary writer and an in-
telligent advocate for woman’s advancement, Mrs.
E. B. Wells made some explanations and gave
some of the reasons why women should vote and
be eligible to office, substantiating the assertions
made by facts that were apparent in the ordinary
life and sphere of humanity. Mrs. Maria L.
Nebeker made quite a telling speech though it
was her first effort on that subject. Mrs. Rawlings
and some others added a few words also the
Chairman. Altogether the meeting was an in-
teresting one and will no doubt be productive of
good.

	There was a reunion of the brethren sisters and
friends in the 13th ward on Thursday evening,
Feb. 18, at the ward meeting house. Bishop N.
A. Empey in charge with a full-fledged supper
Committee and a programme. Heber S. Goddard
took charge of the programme, announced the
exercises in their order, while the Bishop attended


to receiving and welcoming his guests among
whom were many old residents of the ward in the
days of other Bishops; the house was well filled.
After singing and prayer, there was a musical exer-
cise by the Platte brothers on the guitar and
mandolin, finely given and followed by Elder
George Goddard who gave a sketch of the life of
Bishop Edward Hunter in his characteristic style,
first Bishop of the 13th ward and afterwards pre-
siding Bishop of the Church, relating facts and
portraying incidents in a manner true and telling.
Next followed a brief summary ef the life and
labors of Bishop Edwin D. Woolley who suc-
ceeded Bishop Hunter and presided in the ward
30 years, by George Woolley his youngest
son and now Counselor to Bishop Empey.
Bishop Millen Atwood’s son gave a short history
of his father’s life, labors and mission as an Elder
and Bishop, and these exercises were followed by
singing by a selected choir, and Heber S. Goddard
favored the company with the song entitled, “The
heart bowed down—” which was the gem of the
evening. Delicious refreshments were served to
all in the house by the Relief Society, assisted by
the young ladies of the ward. After the interval
of eating and social conversation, the party was
addressed by President Angus M. Cannon, Zina
D. H. Young, B. W. Smith and E. B. Wells.
Brother Geo. Goddard gave one of his old-time
songs the audience joining in the chorus, and the
party was dismissed with prayer by Elder A. M.
Musser.


