RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, the hand of death has again been among us,
during the last month, two of our beloved sisters have been
called behind the veil. The first was Sister Caroline Sykes
Julien, who after a long and painful illness was summoned
to her rest on Dec. 4, 1891. She was born May 26, 1832, in
Yorkshire, England. Came to Utah in 1862, became a
member of the Relief Society in the early days of its or-
ganization, she was a faithful Latter-day Saint, had a kind
and cheerful word for all around her, was also a loving and
indulgent mother. She has left eight children and a sister
behind to mourn her loss which they deeply feel being
fatherless quite a number of years.
	Also Sister Hannah Howe departed this life Dec. 24,
1891, aged 61 years lacking two days. She was born Dec.
26 1830, in Warwickshire England joined the Church in her
youth and came to Utah in 1869. She soon became a
member of the Relief Society and for a number of years
has been a diligent and faithful teacher therein She leaves
a husband and four children to mourn her loss as also
many friends and sisters in the Relief Society. Therefore
be it
	Resolved that we the members of the Relief Society do
recognize in the death of our sisters the loss of two faith-
ful workers in the cause of truth.
	And that we extend our sympathies to the families be-
reaved and pray God our Heavenly Father to comfort
bless and help them in this their trying time.
	Resolved that a copy of these Resolutions be sent to the
American Fork Independent, the WOMAN'S EXPONENET,
and one be spread on the Records of the Society.
			MARY S. HINDLEY,
			ALICE ELSMORE,
			MARY B. ADAMS,
				Committee.

	We the sisters of the Rexburg Second Ward Relief
Society send you the following lines in respect to the
memory of Sister Mary A. Ricks who departed this life
Jan. 30th, 1892. She was born Oct. 28, 1870, and was the
wife of Alfred Ricks and daughter of John and Adeline
Roberts; was a member of the Rexburg Second Ward
Relief Society, was the secretary of the Sunday School and
was a leading member of the choir, she was a lovely singer;
we not only feel the loss of her in our Society, but that of
a sincere worker in any spiritual calling and a steadfast
sister and friend; she was one of the noblest of women; of
her it might be said, faithful and true in all things she lived
and died a saint. She suffered untold agony for a few
hours and although many loving hands were constantly do-
ing and anxious hearts praying for her recovery, the Lord
saw fit to release her from this earthly mission and call her
home. None knew her but to love her. The funeral
services were held in the meeting house, appropriate re-
marks were made by brothers T. E. Bassett, F. S. Bramuel
Pres. Thomas Ricks and M. Ricks. she was followed to the
cemetery by a large procession of relatives and friends to
await the resurrection morn.
	Memorial of respect to the family of Sister Mary A.
Ricks,
	Whereas our beloved sister has been called away by the
hand of death, and be it
	Resolved that we in behalf of the Relief Society do sin-
cerely deplore the loss of a patient worker and a true sister
and we tender to the bereaved parents and husband our
mutual sympathy and implore our Heavenly Father to let
the comforting influence of his holy spirit rest upon them
in this deep sorrow.
	Resolved these resolutions be entered into Relief Society's
record also a copy be presented to the bereaved parents
and husband and printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	Deaa sister Mary thou art gone,
		To dwell in realms above,
	To await the resurrection morn
		When you'll meet with those you love.
			Com.


