			UTAH STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of Utah Stake
was held in the Meeting House, Provo City,
Nov. 27th 1891. Sister Mary John presiding
with her counselors. President Zina D. H.
Young also present with us.
	Conference opened with singing and prayer

[column 2]

The minutes of the former Conference were
read and approved. 
The President was the first speaker, felt
thankful and was glad to see so many out
would like to hear the Presidents of the
branches report after which we would hear
from Sister Young whom we felt it a great
privilege to have with us to-day. A number
of Presidents reported as having faithful and
energetic workers ready and willing to respond
to every call to help the poor and comfort the
mourner etc.
	Sister Young was pleased to hear the
testimonies that had been borne; there were
many sermons in them. The Lord knows
our hearts, we can be his jewels if we try:
sisters do not doubt this work, we will come
off victorious if we are faithful I thank God for
this society. Sisters meet together often;
comfort one another pray with and for each
other, the Lord will hear our prayers and
answer them too. Mothers watch over your
children; know where they are at night; try to
keep them from imbibing bad habits; use
your influence to get them to attend the
Associations organized for their benefit and
profit. I feel as though the Spirit of our
beloved Sister Ma Smoot was with us; sisters
let us be faithful.
	Counselor Marilla Daniels said it had been
a feast of good things,we must love one another
and strive to keep the commandments of God,
and serve Him with all our hearts. We
must look after our children and raise them in
the knowledge of God that they may be
faithful after we are gone etc.
	Sister Young gave some counsel in regard to
questions asked, spoke a short time on various
subjects; spoke of the high calling of the
teachers and the mission of mercy and love
they were called upon to perform. Comfort-
ing the sick and those that were bowed down
with grief carrying the bread of life to them.
Bro. Brigham said we had no conception of the
magnitude that this Society would attain to.
Sisters do not neglect your meetings the time
will come when many will mourn that they
have neglected these opportunities after sing-
ing and prayer conference adjourned till 2
p. m.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 p. m. with
the usual exercises. Part of the time was
taken up with hearing reports from different
parts of the county and as in other branches
they reported diligence in labors and willing-
ness to contribute to the poor that none might
suffer, many strong testimonies were borne to
the truth of this work.
	Counselor Emily G. Cluff spoke of adorn-
ing the minds of our children instead of
spending our time in dressing them so
elaborately etc.
	Sister Young made some additional remarks 
this afternoon. The sisters are gaining and
growing in the knowledge of the Gospel, let
us try to improve by being better wives and
mothers, teach your daughters to pray and all
your children, that they may have faith in
God, be kind and charitable, when we have the
Spirit of the Lord with us we do not feel to
hurt any one’s feelings, there are links that
bind us nearer than kin; let us be strong in
the Lord, my heart is full of blessings for you
my sisters and I ask God to bless you. Amen.
	Bro, C. D. Evans spoke a short time on the
evils of intemperance and exhorted every
mother to use her influence against it. Spoke
also of the great enticements of the Mining
Camps in drawing our young men away from
home, and they soon lose their reverence for
everything sacred or holy.
	Sister Till spoke upon silk culture, they had
on hand considerable silk ready to weave
when they had an opportunity. 
Sister Young had never lost interest in the

[column 3]

silk question. Pres. Young had said the
elements were full of silk etc. Sister John
spoke on the principle of faith, knew the
Lord could save the sick if we ask in faith,
and let us pray for strength to sustain us day
by day. After singing and prayer Conference
adjourned for three months. Benediction by
Rather Groves,
	Caroline Daniels, Sec’y.


