SACRIFICE.

	"Pastry and Poetry," said grandma smil-
ing upon me, as, at the sound of her bell, I
entered her room and placed upon her table
the desert with which she was to finish her
dinner. "Sit down a moment," she continued.
"I shall not detain you; but that last paint-
ing of Leigh's has made such an impression
upon me, I want to tell you of a circumstance
which it brings forcibly to my memory. The
locks, the water and the ship, Leigh has put
into that picture, represent perfectly, as I
remember it, a scene off the shore of the
Bristol Channel, which I witnessed, one
afternoon, many years ago.
	"There was a beautiful young woman who,
having heard the Gospel taught by the Elders
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, had believed, and applied for baptism.
One of the Elders baptized her and she at
once began making preparations to emigrate
to Utah. On the morning of the day which
Leigh's picture brings so vividly to my
recollection, I found the young woman in
tears and deeply distressed. Sympathetic
inquiries elicited the following sad facts.
	"Four or five years before, her love had
been sought and won by a gentleman of
wealth and high birth; he betrayed and
deserted her. There was a child, a lovely
little girl. The young mother had made up
her mind to take her little one to its father,
and there leave it for him and his relatives to
rear and educate, as they were rich while she
was poor. This she looked upon as being a
terrible sacrifice which she was making for
the Gospel's sake. So it would have been in
one sense. The thought of thus separating
herself from her one and only darling was
breaking her heart; but this was not all. The
Elders had counseled her not to take the step
she was contemplating. They advised her to
keep her child and take it with her to Zion
where it would be taught the way of life and
salvation, promising her it should be a bless-
ing and not a trouble to her. But she had
determined to do otherwise, and hard as it
seemed to consummate the plan, she could not
be persuaded to relinquish it. "She therefore
went aboard the ship, with her little girl, to
make the short run across the channel, and go
to the place where the father resided.
	"What was our dismay at seeing the ship,
when just out of reach of help from the land,
spin 'round and 'round, as if in a gigantic
whirlpool, and then dive down as if swallowed
up in a mighty chasm. Both mother and
child were drowned, with several other
passengers.
	"That was to me,a lasting and very sorrowful
lesson. It caused me to consider how dangerous
a thing it is for any of us to act in opposition
to the counsel of men who have been ordained
of God to lead His people, or any portion of
them; for their words should be to us such
words as will lead unto life and light; and to
disregard them, is liable to lead us unto dark-
ness and death.
	"Our young people should be especially
taught in regard to this matter. It isn't that
one member of the Church is better than
another, but we should honor the authority
which God places upon men and women, and
remember always his admonitions concerning
obedience."
