THINGS IN GENERAL.

	The Territorial Legislature are hard at work
trying to dispatch what business is pending, and
Committees are making good use of their time in
discussing the various subjects and preparing
their reports the House and the Council. The
puzzling question seems to be how to apportion
means, and more important still perhaps how to
get the means to appropriate. The members are
anxious to act according to the wishes of their
constituency, and to fully consider also the
financial welfare of the Territory. There are
many laudable institutions in this young Territory
that need fostering, strenghtening and building up.
Reformatory and educational enterprises should
not be neglected, and yet the future of Utah
should be well considered and such steps taken as
will further the progress, develop the growth, and
ensure permanent enterprises as will
	The Columbian Exposition will afford an open-


ing for world-wide representation, such as never
has been known in the history of this continent.
The great and growing West with its boundless
possibilities is still comparatively unknown in the
Eastern world. The World’s Fair of 1893 will
give such grand opportunities for celebrity as
as have never before been accessible. To let it
pass without an extra effort on the part of the
men and women of this region of country to make
a creditable showing would be a grievous mistake
and one that could never be remedied. Utah is
positively coming to the front in the van of
States, and the resources within her borders
hold out splendid inducements for men of means,
of skill and ingenuity to make available her native
products.
	
	The bills now before the Congress of the
United States asking for statehood and home-rule
are receiving considerable attention, and are
bringing the condition of the Territory, its
material interests, its social and general history
to the understanding of a greater number of peo-
ple than heretofore; partly through newspaper
comments, and if those are not always just and
true they cause people to inquire, and that gen-
erally results in the dissemination of more cor-
rect information.
			
The amnesty bill seems the most likely to re-
ceive favorable notice and the popular vote. One
would think that the people who had submitted
to the enforcement of adverse legislation, and
without a murmur or any sign of hostility, ac-
knowledged their willingness to abide by the de-
cisions of the courts were entitled to some con-
sideration, when they had not infringed upon the
statutes made specially for them.


