[Vol11 | April 1924 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Orson F. Whitney]

APRIL,1924 = =~ - # No4 Two Great Educators Orson F. Whitney In the City Cemetery, where I sometimes ramble, communing with my thoughts and reviving memories of the sainted dead, there are two monuments that I never pass without pausing to read the epitaphs engraved thereon.

One of them follows: KARL G. MAESER EreEcTED By His PupPILs Very simple, and withal very telling?a volume in seven words.

No date or place of birth or of death?no attempt to tell upon cold granite the story of a life whose beneficent achievements are written imperishably upon the warm, pulsating 'hearts of thousands of living men and women?aye, thousands upon thousands, living and dead, who owned and still own him as their teacher. ?"the friend To whom the shadows of far years extend"; and who will ever hold him in affectionate remembrance for what he did for them while they were pupils under his watchcare.

The other stone is more explicit.

It bears this inscription: DR. JOHN R. PARK Born ln TiFFIN, Ou10, May 7, 1833 Diep lN SALT LAKE City, SEPT. 30, 1900 PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 1869-1892 Srate SUPERINTENDENT OF PusLic INSTRUCTION IN UTAH 1895 To THE DAY OF HIS DEATH I knew both these men, and was a student under one of them long before the University of Utah grew out of the University of 166 "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Deseret, and when, in lieu of the group of stately buildings adorning the present commanding site, it occupied by permission the old Council House which stood, until accidentally destroyed by fire, upon the now busy commercial corner where the Deseret News has its home.

Dr. Park was president of the University and its leading preceptor at that time.

American-born, a descendant of Scotch and Franco-German forebears, he had been educated in the district schools and colleges of his native state and was a medical graduate of the University of the City of New York.

He 'had practiced medicine, taught school, and kept store in Ohio, before coming to Utah, in 1861. He came again in 1864, returning from an extended tour of the Pacific coast.

During both those years he taught school in Draper, where he embraced the "Mormon" faith.

He continued to reside there until the spring of 1869, when he was sent for by the Board of Regents of the Deseret University, who had elected him president of that institution.

Accepting the honor conferred, he removed at once to Salt Lake City.

It was a turning point in the troubled career of Utah's '"'Parent School." Opening in November, 1850, in less than two years, owing to scant means and limited patronage, it closed its doors, discontinued the department of instruction, and fell into a Rip Van Winkle sleep of nearly twenty years.

It was revived as a commercial school in 1867, but the real awakening came with the advent of Dr. Park.

He organized the University upon a basis of classical, scientific and normal instruction, adapted to the practical needs of the Territory?now State?and launched it upon its new career.

His success was marked and immediate, and to the impetus given the cause of education, then and later, by his labors in and out of the University, is largely due the proud status of that now thriving institution, and the existence of Utah's excellent public school system.

The University had its trials even with Dr. Park at the helm.

Poor and homeless, it seemed fainting at times and about to succumb, but it struggled on, determined to succeed, and finally stood with firm feet upon the summit of its present prosperity.

Dr. Park enjoyed a popularity that falls to the lot of few men so placed.

His students loved him as Napoleon's "Old Guard" loved their "Little Corporal;" and he also possessed the confidence.

And esteem of the chancellor and regents and his fellow members of the faculty.

His method of instruction was plain, simple and effective.

He could invest the driest subject with a fascinating charm, could awaken interest in the dullest mind, and hold the attention of the most frivolous.

It was said of Gladstone, that master of oratory, that 'he "could make pippins and cheese interesting and tea serious." Dr. Park, though not an orator, wielded TWO GREAT EDUCATORS 167 a similar power in the class-room.

Under his magnetic tutelage, mathematics became a joy, grammar and rhetoric a delightful dream.. Governing less by rule than by personal influence, he nevertheless imposed strict and wholesome regulations, and required that they be respected and obeyed.

By a look he could command silence, and 'had but to speak in his low, earnest tone, and he made an impression as lasting as memory itself.

Dignified, but never haughty, affable and condescending, he preserved an unbroken equanimity.

Stern when necessary, he was never a scold; and though mirthful betimes, would never indulge in excessive levity.

If a student whispered or made any noise that disturbed the class he was instructing, he would stop the recitation and fix a reproving eye upon the offender, who, as his voice rose higher and higher amidst a general stillness that grew deeper and deeper, would soon find himself the cynosure of all eyes and the most embarrassed and best punished pupil in the school.

After frowning for some moments at the humiliated and by that time thoroughly penitent transgressor, the Doctor, without a word of reproof, would resume the recitation, as if nothing had happened.

If this method failed to impress?though I never knew it to fail?or if the offense was something more serious, a quiet summons to the Doctor's office, and a kind, but earnest admonition appealing to the better nature of the breaker of rules would prove a sufficient corrective.

In delivering his instructions, Dr. Park would first remind his class that "attention is the mother of memory." He would then proceed with the lesson, using the simplest terms, never playing the pedant; never shooting over the heads of his students or smothering his ideas in big words and pompous rhetoric; but with Dickens-like simplicity and purity of diction, coming down to the level of his hearers and teaching so that all could understand.

While not religious, in the sense of being a regular meetinggoer, Dr. Park was a moral man.

A vulgar word, an unchaste allusion, any indecent expression uttered in his presence, was sure to meet with his reproof?administered in such a way, however, that the guilty one could but feel grateful for the correction.

After twenty-three years of presidency over the University, Dr. Park, owing to failing health, retired; but three years later?Utah being about to enter the Union, and the election of state officers then pending?he let his name be placed upon the Republican ticket, for State Superintendent of Public Instruction.

Dr. Maeser's name was on the Democratic ticket as a candidate for the same office.

It was a Republican year, and Dr. Park was elected, and held the position during the last five years of his life.

After leaving the University, he made large gifts of books to 
 its library, and collections to its museum, and in various ways manifested an abiding interest in its welfare.

He regarded it as his child?and child of him it virtually was, for he had adopted it in its childhood and reared it to maturity.

At his death he made it his sole heir, bequeathing to it all his property.

Provident and well-to-do, having an estate of about forty-five thousand dollars, 'he desired the institution whose long and arduous struggles he had witnessed, to profit by his death as it had profited by his life.

Such was Dr. John R. Park, as I knew him.

Dr. Maeser was as unlike Dr. Park as the Church is unlike the State, as the mountain torrent is unlike the meadow brook.

They differed widely, not only in appearance, but in manner, method, and speech.

Dr. Park, as I have said, was not a religious man?not deeply so at all events.

The schoolhouse was his temple and pedagogy, not preaching, his medium for imparting knowledge.

Dr. Maeser was intensely religious?though at one time he knew it not.

He taught religion in school and out, wherever it was lawfully permissible. 'A forceful orator, eloquent and convincing, he became a zealous and successful missionary.

Dr. Park stood for secular education, the training of the mental and physical in man.

Dr. Maeser stood for all this and more.

His educational ideals passed over the threshold of Time and strode down the halls of Eternity.

With a full appreciation of the knowledge that makes men and women capable and skillful in this life, he prized and taught others to prize, above all, the knowledge that maketh wise unto salvation.

How to make a living here?how to solve life's every-day problems, was of course important; but how to grapple successfully with the mightier problems of the Great Hereafter?how to store up treasures in heaven and lay hold upon eternal life, was far more consequential in the eyes of Karl G. Maeser.

Education meant to him the leading out of all the latent potential powers of the individual? the training to perfection of every divine attribute in man, as the child of God and as a god himself in embryo.

He stood for the full and complete development of the soul?body and spirit combined?mental, physical, moral and spiritual education?the education contemplated and jnculcated by the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

To the gospel Dr. Maeser owed much?owed everything; for it found him a skeptic and made of him a devotee?a skeptic as tc man-made creeds and religions; a devotee of heaven-revealed eternal truth.

It enriched his thoughts, expanded his views, and elevated his ideals?in short, gave him the development that the gospel alone can give.

Conversion came to this man while he was a preceptor in Dresden, the capitol of Saxony.

He was a typical German, proud TWO GREAT EDUCATORS ?. 169 of his nationality, and a worthy representative of the best traditions of the-fatherland.

The son of an artist employed in the famous Dresden china-works at Meissen, he was born in that town January 16, 1828. He received his first training in the public schools of Meissen, and at twenty was graduated from the School Teachers Seminary in Dresden.

After some experience as a private tutor in Bohemia, and later as a teacher in one of Dresden's large city schools, he became chief preceptor in the Budig Institute, also in Dresden.

It was about this time that he began to take an interest in "Mormonism," which was to furnish the field in which he was destined to accomplish his greatest work and win undying fame.

Vague rumors concerning the "Mormons" and their persecutions had reached him in his childhood, when a published account of the mobbings and drivings of the Saints, accompanied by pictorial illustrations, came under his casual notice.

Now the spirit of inquiry rested upon him, and 'he sought for further information.

Having obtained the address of Elder Daniel Tyler, who was presiding over the Saints in Switzerland, he wrote to him inquiring about the Church and its doctrines.

Elder Tyler sent him some ? gospel pamphlets?so poorly translated as to provoke the mirth of the young pedagogue and his boon companion, Edward Schoenfeld, who read them with him.

Schoenfeld was also a teacher.

In the Dresden schools, and like his friend Maeser, a skeptic, steering by the light of science and philosophy, in preference to the flickering, uncertain light of modern Christianity. 'As the two young men continued to read those humble pamphlets, a great change came over them.

They became interested in the matter, ignoring the manner of its presentation, and when Elder Tyler wrote again, proposing to send a missionary to Dresden, and asking how such a one should introduce himself in a | land where there was no religious liberty, they answered with pleased alacrity, "Let him come as a private instructor." This suggestion, forwarded to Liverpool, the headquarters of the European mission, was at once acted upon.

President Franklin D. Richards sent Elder William Budge to introduce the gospel in the kingdom of Saxony.

Elder Budge began his labors in Dresden as a private tutor in the home of Dr. Maeser, teaching him and his family, with a few friends, the doctrines of ""Mormonism"?the principles of the everlasting gospel.

He used for that purpose a Bible with the German text in one column and the English in the other, pointing out the striking passages to his little group of listeners.

The result was the conversion of the Maeser household and those who met with them for instruction.

Karl G. Maeser was baptized by President Franklin D. Richards, 
 in the River Elbe, on the night of October 14, 1855. The President was assisted by Elder Budge, who stood on one sid? of the convert, and not only helped to immerse him, but repeated in German for his benefit the words of the baptismal rite, as they fell in English from the lips of the apostle.

Professor Schoenfeld was baptized in like manner on the same occasion.

And now occurred a most remarkable incident?indeed, a miraculous one.

While returning home, President Richards and Dr. Maeser walked side by side conversing, the former in English, the latter in German, Elder Budge interpreting for both.

At a certain point, much to his surprise, he was told by President Richards that he need not interpret any further, as he and Dr. Maeser understood each other perfectly.

It was a manifestation of the spiritual gift of interpretation of tongues, confirming the Savior's promise of the "signs" that were to "follow them that believe." At the Maeser home, on the following sabbath, a branch of the Church was organized.

Aware of the storm that his action would evoke when it became known, Dr. Maeser voluntarily resigned his position in Dresden, and having been ordained to the priesthood, went as a missionary to London, where he built up a branch among the German inhabitants of that great city.

He then crossed the Atlantic, labored as a missionary in Philadelphia, taught school in Richmond, Virginia, and after presiding for a season over the Philadelphia Saints, came to Utah with his family, arriving at Salt Lake City in October, 1860. There was an immediate demand for his services as a teacher, and in the Fifteenth and Twentieth wards, where he successively opened schools, he won golden opinions for his pedagogical skill.

Subsequently he was private tutor in the family of President Brigham Young, and during the same period, organist for the Tabernacle Choir.

This was in the days of the Old Tabernacle, which stood where the Assembly Hall now stands, From 1867 to 1870 he presided over the Saints in Switzerland and Germany, where his rare abilities as an organizer and a disciplinarian came into play.

A marked feature of his administration was a wonderful system of teachers' report books, which rendered impossible any shirking of duty by a visiting teacher without its being known.

He established the German Star (Der Stern), which still sheds its light over the Swiss and German mission.

Returning home, he resumed his professional labors, and during the next six years continued to reside in Salt Lake City.

Then came the great opportunity for which all 'his past experience, had been a preparation.

He organized at Provo, in 1876, the Brigham Young Academy, the nucleus of the now flour- TWO GREAT EDUCATORS. - 171 ishing system of Church schools which have done and are doing so much for the young people of Zion and for the general advancement of the great cause committed to the Saints of latter days.

He was called to this work by President Brigham Young who, in.

Answer to his inquiry as to how 'he should proceed, simply said: "Brother Maeser, don't attempt to teach even the multiplication table without the Spirit of the Lord." A small acorn??but what a mighty oak has sprung from it!

It was a stupendous task that had been A upon him, an undertaking before which most men, even most educators, would have quailed.

The Academy was then but a name?there was no endowment, no equipment, and it had not a place to lay its head.

But the faith and indomitable will of Karl G. Maeser were equal to the situation.

With the bare, brief hint given him?bare but not barren, brief, yet infinite in suggestion?the veteran departed upon his errand; and how well he carried out the counsel of the Lord's servant, how thoroughly he did the work assigned him, nearly a half century of splendid success on the part of the school that he brought into being, eloquently.

Testifies.

Dr. Maeser's method of teaching was antipodal to Dr. Park's ?diametrically opposite; and yet equally effective.

The Germantrained pedagogue did not invite attention?he compelled it.

Vigerous and vehement, he could be ironically stern, or pathetically mild, as occasion demanded.

Despite his, at times, severe tone and somewhat brusque manner there was that about him which attracted powerfully.

His students were drawn to him as irresistibly as the needle to the pole. 'He inculcated truthfulness and chastity as cardinal points of character, and put his students upon honor as to their conduct in and out of school, giving them to understand what it would mean to abuse and thus lose his confidence. ''Character is power," 'he told them; and to impress upon them the vital importance of good conduct, he said: "Our conduct in a previous life conditioned us in this life; and our conduct here will condition us hereafter'"?a noble expounding of the divine doctrine, "Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." Thus, while educating the minds and bodies of his students, he was careful to instill into them the principles of religion and morality.

The Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price were among the text-books of the Brigham Young Academy.

Prayer and testimony were required of the students, and the atmosphere of worship pervaded the class rooms.

All branches of learning, whether secular or sacred, were inculcated under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord.

The result was that graduates from this school went forth from its portals firm in the faith, believers in God, Latter-day Saints, 172. = RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE equipped not only for expert office work and skilled labor of various kinds, but also for intelligent and efficient service in the Church schools and mission fields.

Up to the fall of 1888, Dr. Maeser continued to be the principal of the Brigham Young Academy?now University.

He was then given the position of General Superintendent of Church Schools?the great scholastic system sprung from the parent shoot that he had planted and?it might almost be said?watered with his tears; for the Brigham Young University, like the state university, came up through much tribulation.

As general superintendent he organized Church schools far and wide, and visited them faithfully, his tours of inspection extending from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south.

In the constitutional convention of 1895, he helped to frame the organic law upon which Utah was admitted into the Union, giving to that instrument the benefit of his constructive wisdom and ripe experience as an educator, materially affecting for good the public school system therein provided for.

As general superintendent of Church schools and assistant general superintendent of Sabbath schools, he diligently served until death summoned him.

He passed away at his home in Salt Lake City, February 15, 1901. Unlike Dr. Park, Dr. Maeser left no legacy.

He had none to leave.

He was not a maker of money, and died as he had lived, poor, or in very moderate circumstances.

But he gave something far more precious than gold and silver or stocks and bonds to the noble institution of which he was the architect and builder, and to the mighty system that has grown out of it.

He gave himselfi? left the impress of his upright example, his pearl-like precepts, and the lasting memory of the patient labor of the best years of his life, as an inspiration to his successors for all time to come.

Such men as Dr. Park and Dr. Maeser need no monuments; yet it is fitting, most fitting that we rear them?not as reminders of their virtues and achievements, so well and widely known, but as tokens of reverence and esteem for these "dead but sceptered sovereigns who yet rule our spirits from their urns." See EDITORIAL  Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL _BOARD ? MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - -: - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - Second Counselor MRS, AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A, Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs, Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - CrarissA SmitH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - -. - - - - - Atice Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager - -. - - - -. JEANETTE A. Hype Assistant Manager _ - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Buiding, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XI APRIL, 1924 ? ~ No. 4