GUIDE LESSONS ? 203 "O hearken, my tongue shall the riddle unseal, And mind shall be partner with heart; While thee to thyself I bid conscience reveal, And show thee how evil thou art.

Remember thy follies, thy sins, and thy crimes, How vast is that infinite debt; Yet mercy hath seven by seventy times Been swift to forgive and forget."' The parable makes clear the fact that in Heaven there is no place for the unforgiving.

The Lord cannot tolerate the companionship of the unmerciful and be what he is?''A God of mercy." C.. The Laborers in the Vineyard This parable, recorded in Matthew 20:1-16, was called forth by Peter's question recorded in Matthew 19:27, and Peter's questions seems to have been provoked by the Savior's offer of salvation to the rich young man, Matthew 19:16-21. Peter's question had in it an element of dissatisfaction with the Lord's promise of treasures in heaven to the man who had been enjoying wealth and ease while the apostles had been giving _ their all and themselves to the service of the Lord.

The answer, recorded in Matthew 19:28, must have been very gratifying to the apostles, as it provided for exaltation as well as the salvation promised in verse twenty-nine, but the statement recorded in verse thirty was full of mystery and possibly caused some apprehension in the minds of those who knew themselves to be first in service.

The statement, however, was a recognition of the fact that waiting for employment is more arduous than waiting for pay.

Could the apostles have appreciated the inestimable value of the privilege of "following him" i. e., working under his direction and inspiration, they would have recognized that the latecomer, though he received the same material compensation as the early-comer did, could not receive equal with the early employee because the greatest compensation for service in the Kingdom is the privilege of serving.

The Lord taught them the lesson that the was the source of heavenly treasure (eternal life, and exaltation) for without him no service can reach these treasures. | After all, wherein is exaltation greater than salvation?

The one is a state of preservation from the power of one's enemies; the other is all that and more, it is a state of being able to render superior service.

This, the chief difference between salvation and exaltation, is a difference of opportunity to work.

The higher the exaltation the greater the work.

Work is progressive exaltation. 204. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE QUESTIONS AND: PROBLEMS 1. From what point of view may the parable of the draw net teach the doctrine of gradation of salvation? 2. Correlate the following quotation with the parable of the draw net: "On the silent shore to which we are all moving we shall find each one his peace." 3. Relate the parable of the unmerciful servant and state what, to your mind, is the chief lesson taught by it. 4. What was the heathen basis of settling differences and' what was the Jewish limit of forgiveness at the time of giving this parable? 5. Correlate the doctrine taught by the parable of the unmer- _ciful servant with Doctrine and Covenants 64:9-10 and with the Lord's prayer. 6. Discuss this statement: To ask for forgiveness when one is unwilling to forgive is to ask that the Savior's statement be made untrue. 7. What were the circumstances which brought forth the parable of the laborers in the vineyard? 8. What was the evident object of this parable? 9. From what point of view is the one longest in God's service always best paid? 10. Discuss the following as an expression of the highest desire:,: May life eternal be my share, Under my Redeemer's care.

With those I love?eternal joy, Eternal work in God's employ.

LESSON II Work