[Vol11 | April 1924 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Dr. McCollum Coming to Utah Carrie Castle Dogier]

Dr. McCollum Coming to Utah By Carrie Castle Dozier, Dean of the School of Home Economics, Utah Agricultural College The study of human nutrition and of the dietary needs of the individual has made such rapid strides during the past decade that our information on human nutrition of but a short time ago is largely in the discard. ' It is necessary, if we are to feed ourselves as intelligently as we feed our dairy cows and our -cattle, that we keep in constant touch with the new information that is being so rapidly accumulated in this field.

Because the Utah Agricultural College realized the desire on the part of Utahns for an opportunity to study present methods of human nutrition from an expert in this field, the Institution secured Dr. E. V. McCollum, Head of the Department of Human Nutrition of Johns Hopkins' University, to offer credit courses of six weeks' duration in human nutrition at the Utah Agricultural College National Summer School.

These courses offered by Dr. McCollum should make a particular appeal to Utah, because I do not believe that there is a group of people in the entire United ' States more interested, in all that concerns the promotion of happy, healthful and useful living, than the people of this state.

Dr. McCollum spent last summer at the University of California and his classes were among the most popular.

The room assigned him was overcrowded the first day; the larger room provided the second day of the term proved entirely inadequate to 'house those who had registered for his work; and a room of still larger size had to be abandoned in favor of one of the largest class rooms on the Berkeley campus before the end of the first week.

There were numbers of Utah people among the students and visitors in his classes who will rejoice in Utah's good fortune in securing his services for the coming summer.

Dr. McCollum is best known to students of nutrition through his book, The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition, which is used as a text in many colleges and universities.

He is also the author of the more popular, but just as scientific treatise, The American Home Diet.

His most widely known contribution to human welfare, however, has 'had to do with vitamines.

Until about ten years ago it was believed that-an animal body, human or otherwise, could be nourished on foods made up of water, carbohydrates, fats, proteins and minerals.

Why animals given plenty of these purified: substances failed to thrive or even live was a mystery, and Professor McCollum helped to solve the question through his discovery that the necessary but minute quantities of organic 
 E. V. McCOLLUM Head of the Department of Human Nutrition of Johns Hopkins' University DR. McCOLLUM = 189 substances now known as vitamines, are absent from such combinations.

In fact it is to him that we are indebted for the names which they bear, fat soluble A, water soluble B and C. There is an abundance of these in certain foods, an entire absence in other foods, while midway between these two groups stand those which have only a moderate store of these necessary to life and health, but still chemically unidentified substances.

Milk, eggs, and leafy vegetables are representatives of the first class and are called by McCollum the "protective foods." There is no doubt in Professor McCollum's mind but that human efficiency could be raised measurably by proper food.

In this connection I can do no better than to quote from his Newer Knowledge of Nutrition: "The concentrated efforts of the author during a period of fourteen years have been devoted to observing the effects of diets of different types on experimental animals.

During this time a continuous search has been carried on for information of any and every kind which would aid in correlating the results of the laboratory: with those of practical experience.

Year by year this has increased his conviction that the scientific discoveries in the field of nutrition are destined to be recognized as the most fundamental of the agencies that contribute to the 'health, happiness and achievement of man.

Some time must elapse before a full appreciation of the importance of approximating the optimum in the character of the food supply can be expected, but when appreciated at its full value, our knowledge in the field of the science of nutrition will be regarded as our most precious possession." There is so much pseudo-scientific information on the subject 'of foods these days that it is a great satisfaction to know that one of the foremost authorities on the subject in America is to be in our midst for six weeks.

He has unusual ability to translate into every-day terms the scientific facts which he and others have discovered in their laboratories with regard to adequate diets, and 'his lectures are replete with practical information.

On the other hand, his classes at the Johns Hopkins' Medical College afford a striking example of his ability to present the same subject couched in terms of scientific accuracy and detail.

The information he will bring to Utah this summer will be as valuable to the housewife as to the college or university student.

For the benefit of the former let me quote, "The greatest good is to come to the next generation, so far as educational effort can accomplish its purpose, through the solicitude of mothers and fathers in so caring for their unborn and born children as to obviate the establishment of those physical defects which not only prevent normal muscular development but which affect the entire outlook upon life." Professor McCollum's courses will be invaluable to advanced students in the guidance they will provide in efforts 
 to sift, digest and assimilate "the vast literature which has grown up within a few years, relating to nutrition investigations, in which there is much that is confusing." While Dr. McCollum's work will be of particular interest to the women of the state, there will be other outstanding factors at the National Summer School who will have messages of great value to offer.

In addition to Dr. McCollum the following leading educators will offer credit courses during the summer session: Prof. W. C. Allee, Department of Zoology, University of Chicago; Dr. Emmett D. Angell, Lecturer at Yale, Harvard and Wisconsin Universities; Recreational Leadership: Dr. Eliot Blackwelder, Head Department of Geology, Stanford University; Dr. E. C. Branson Head Department of Rural Sociology, University of North Carolina; Prof. Henry C. Cowles, Department of Botany, University of Chicago; Prof. Raymond Franzen of the Department of Education, University of California; Prof. R. S. Knappen, of the Department of Geology, University of Kansas; Dr. R. C. McLain, Supervisor of Health Education, Detroit, Michigan; Prof. Frederick Merk, Department of History, Harvard University; Prof. C. A. Reed, Asst.

Prof. Agricultural Engineering, Ohio State University; Prof. Frederick J. Turner, 'Head Department of Western History, Harvard University; Prof. E. L. Thorndike, Head Department of Psychology and Education, Columbia University; Prof. Thomas D. Wood, Head Department of Physical and Health Education, Columbia University.

In addition to this teaching faculty, special lectures will be given by Prof. John Adams, Prof. Of Psychology and Education, University of London; Dr. William F. Anderson, Director Gymnasium, Yale University; Dr. Liberty Hyde Bailey, Dean Emeritus of the New York State College of Agriculture; Dr. David Starr Jordan, President Emeritus, Stanford University; Prof. Shailer Matthews, Dean of the Divinity School, University of Chicago; Prof. E. A. Steiner, Head, Department of Social Science and Applied Christianity, Grinnel College; Dr. A. E. Winship, Editor Journal of Education, Boston, Mass.