[Vol11 | April 1924 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Simple Trimming for Summer Dresses Violet Elliott]

Simple Trimming for Summer Dresses By Vilate Elhott, Brigham Young University While very satisfactory ready-made clothing of all kinds can be purchased; only in the more costly qualities can they be found for the woman who appreciates good materials in fast colors and good workmanship.- For this reason the thrifty young mother finds she can cut down her clothing budget by choosing good styles and materials and making the summer dresses for herself and children.

Gingham and percale are standard fabrics for 'house dresses, the gingham especially being serviceable in fast colors both for women and children.

Combinations in colors with simple trimmings such as bias tape and rick-rack braid make very attractive dresses for all classes.

The following illustrations show some of the ways of using bias tape and rick-rack braid.

Figure.1. Shows the sun-bonnet baby apron, this one was made from light-blue chambry with pink chambry used for the baby.

The sun-bonnet baby is enlarged elsewhere in this article.

The rick-rack braid both on the baby, sleeves and neck are tacked in place with a French 'kdot off black cotton.

Figure 2. Could be made with a combination of colors or the rick-rack braid set on to give the desired effect.

The flowers are made from the braid, the center one is filled with French knots, or the center could be a contrasting color, the smaller ones are made of the braid with the points meeting in the center, then a lazy daisy stitch placed in each petal with a few French knots in the center.

Figure 3. Is a very pleasing little dress, the bias tape gives the effect of a little flounce, the bias is folded and stitched double around the dress, with strips of tape set on across the front, this gives a neat finish.

The neck and sleeves and shoulders are bound with the tape, a short placket on each shoulder fastened with a snap makes it easy to put on.

This works up well in any color, black sateen with red bias tape is very effective.

Figure 4. Is a cunning dress in pink gingham with striped or checked insets, the white bias tape is used to bind the insets also to give the flounce effect to the skirt. - Figure 5. This would be very pretty in tan and brown gingham with a brown checked bias tape used for finishing.

SUMMER DRESSES ? 179 Frg. = Fig.

B 180 ?? = }' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE [-) SUMMER DRESSES 181 Figure 6. Could be any color with the neck, sleeves, and shoulder line bound in contrasting color.

The belt is also bound.

Mock buttonholes, made of bias tape; and buttons may be used as trimmings on the shoulders and belt.

These dresses are all made with the butterfly pattern because they are easy to make and to iron.

Figure 7. White cotton suiting, trimmed with yellow bias tape in the ladder work pattern would be very pleasing.

This 
 mous also work up well in combination colors in gingham or percale, Figure 8.. Peter-pan lavender gingham finished with white with the mock buttonholes while the other side has the buttons, Figure 9. Made of pink lawn and trimmed with pink lawn bias tape tab trimming made by folding the tape double and stitching under the continuous row.

Bias tape may be held in place with quick, easy embroidery stitches, or two edges may be faggoted together as shown on page 181 Note: If your merchant does not carry the width or color desired, you can purchase it at the following address: Wm.

E. Wright and Sons, 350-370 Scotland Road, Orange, New Jersey.

An Easter Thought There's life and death and life again; *Tis nature's law.

God did ordain That flowers bloom and fade and die.

They do not die but only lie Beneath the snow the winter through.: They'll live again; they'll bloom anew; They only sleep, deep in the earth, And when spring comes there's life and birth.

The trees and shrubs are brown and bare, But soon there's beauty everywhere.

The warm sunshine and gentle rain Will nature bring to life again. 'Tis like the resurrection morn When man the second time is born.

Friends are not dead, but only sleep.

Then why should we be sad and weep?

The Savior died upon the tree.

He died to set the sinner free.

He was not dead but only slept While round his tomb the mourners wept.

He conquered death and rose again While angels sang in glad refrain.

There is no death, 'tis only sleep. 'Then why bemoan our fate?

Why weep? ?William C. T. Adams, bias tape or harmonizing color could be used.

One side is trimmed