
[handwritten at the top of the page] Elisabeth [---]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 39. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1910. No. 1.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Hospitality...............Julia P. M. Farnsworth		1
Philomela Smith Lake...S. T. Brimhall Foley		2
Farewell Address to the Relief Society..........
	.....................Romania B. Penrose			3
Testimony of Sister M. Isabella Horne.........		5
General Relief Society Conference..............
	...............................Emmeline B. Wells		6
The First Woman Physician........................		7
Farewell Social for President and Sister Pen-
	rose....................................................		8
Relief Society Stake Reports: Reorganization	3
	Liberty, Uintah....................................		8
In Memoriam.............................................		8
Notes and News...........................................		8
Editorial:—The Woman’s Exponent............		4
	Current Events...............................			4
	Editorial Notes......................................		4
	A June Wedding...................................		5
	Reception at the McCune Mansion.........	5
	Afternoon Social.................................		5
Poetry:—The Pioneers.............Ellis R. Shipp	1
	Our Mother's Songs..Emmeline B. Wells	3


THE PIONEERS.
Oft in sermon, song and story, hear we of the Pio-
	neers;
How our sires won lasting glory writ in blood, in
	graves, and tears.
Exiles for the Truths’ sake were they, far from
	plenty’ peace and home
Leaving all for cause most worthy, in the wilder-
	ness to roam.

Days and weeks and months they traveled over
	hill and barren plain
Driving lean and hungry cattle toiling on in hope
	and pain
Trav’ling far in midnight hushes grass and water
	to obtain.
Alkali and scanty rushes, often all that they would
	gain. 

They were led by inspiration as the dreary plain
	they trod,
Western shores their destination—Where they
	hoped to worship God
Unmolested and protected by the mountain bul-
	warks grand,
When the soil so long neglected, they’d subdued
	with hardy hand. 

Yet these days were not all sad ones, for there
	often came a time
When their hearts were light and gladsome,
	fraught with feelings most sublime. 
For in converse oft they’d gather round the camp
	fires ruddy glow,
Singing songs in faith together, light of Heavens’
	smile to know. 

Hope was bright within their bosoms, they were
	searching for a land
Seeu in inspirations Vision, past the deserts burn-
	ing sand. 
Where the great dead sea was washing lonely
	shores with saline spray,
There the Gospel everlasting could send forth sal-
	vation’s ray.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
			HOSPITALITY.
		JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.
	My dear sisters and friends here assem-
bled: I am happy to be present with you
today, and the subject I have to discuss is
one I am very fond of and much interested
in, for it is broad and far reaching. Mrs.
Julia McPair Wright classes hospitality as
“the queen of social virtues.”
	Order and neatness do not necessarily

[Column 2]
come under the title of hospitality; yet, a
home would certainly not be a very invit-
ing place for entertainment without these
two vital conditions in it. System and
cleanliness are indispensable but not wealth
or great display. The dear little house-
keeper—home-maker in her dainty print
dress with white collar, and nicely arranged
hair, looks much better to her family and
guests than one arrayed in silks or satin
and an elaborate headdress worn at an im-
proper time.
	The good breeding and right tact of a 
woman is always exhibited in her own home
more plainly than anywhere else, as also
the snob or parvenu. Education and cul-
ture are gained by environment, travel and
study, but purity, gentleness, modesty and
refinement of character are often ours by
right of inheritance, and fortunate are the
children who have been blessed with fathers
and mothers of God’s noble men and wo-
men, who were just, virtuous, honorable,
high souled people. For they haye given
and made the strength the intellectual
power as well as the religious and moral
development of our country, and who lend
to a nation the right kind, the safe and true
standard of hospitality.
	Our Americans since Colonial days and
their first President, George Washington was
host down to the most obscure citizen have
been noted for their cordiality to foreigners,
as well as their own subjects. The generals
of the Revolution, were renowned for their
great hospitality from the beginning to the
close of the seven years war.
	One instance that of Francis Marion
the great South Carolinian, while leading
his brave, but half starved and scantily
clothed army through the swamps and
mountain passes of the south was visited by
a young British officer to whom he gave the
best entertainment his larder afforded, al-
though it was only roasted potatoes served
on pine bark plates, and cold water in rusty
tin cups. History tells us this same young
English officer gave up his commission on
reaching the British headquarters and on
meeting Lord General Howe, saying to him,
“We can never conquer an army of soldiers
and men with commanders like General
Francis Marion!
	Our ambassadors of the diplomatic corps,
since the days of Benjamin Franklin, John
Marshall, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, and
John Adams have been liberal entertainers
abroad, as well as at home. And no coun-
try has given the world more courtly, more
beautiful types of characters as hostesses, of
cultured womanliness than Martha Custis
Washington, and the uncrowned queens of
America. Abigail Adams and Dolly Madi-
son, and in our own day Julia Dent Grant 
and Frances Folsom Cleveland.
	True hospitality is inborn, it comes spon-
taneous, and is prompted by a desire to
please, comfort and give happiness to oth-
ers.
	Our conference visitors should always re-
ceive kind, courteous hospitality from us,
and on the other hand, be considerate in our
homes and endeavor to conform to the rules
therein. For sisters, we have many obliga-

[Column 3]
tions, many domestic conditions to meet
that you in your country homes know not 
of. Our lives are not one sided; we have 
many phases in them. It is not only the
many conferences, but missionaries, going
to and from their various fields of labor,
temple workers, students attending state 
and Church schools, friends, yes, and
strangers going into and coming from the
city hospitals, persons attending conven-
tions of agriculture, stock raising, mining
and manufacturing, with the tourists who
frequent our city. Educational and legis-
lative assemblies in connection with re-
ligious, historical, patriotic, social and po-
litical meetings to attend, all of which
directly or indirectly draw on the time,
brain power and helpfulness of the city
mothers, more or less.
	Our intercourse with our sisters from every
direction, should be harmonious, there
should be a perfect understanding as to
business methods, and religious principles.
Love, respect and right hospitality will
cement and make stronger our influence.
	We as Relief Society workers can fully
testify to the correctness of this. Now
there are different grades of hospitality, but
the one we most admire is that which ema-
nates from genuine goodness of heart. This
we find when traveling from northern Cana-
da to southern Me[-]ico, from western Ore-
gon through Idaho, Utah, Wyoming and
Colorado, in fact in every place where a
branch of our Relief Society is found, and
where we missionaries visit. This often en-
tails much sacrifice and privation on the
part of our hostess, our entertainers; yet
they are gracious and courteous to us, they
have and are the good Samaritans in very
deed! for like the pioneer women in all
countries they are ready to divide or even
give the whole to the “stranger within their
gates.”
	Hospitality goes hand in hand with chari-
ty, ’tis ever thoughtful of the needs and de-
sires of others. ’Tis a proverbial saying
that the Relief Society in each city is the
emporium of hospitable consideration.
	Our homes are the first gardens in which
to cultivate this beautiful flower, for its
branches will run over its walls. ’Tis the
wives, mothers and daughters who give the
air of cultnre, beauty and suitability to the
home, fathers or brothers usually provide
the surroundings, the habitation, but they
can never give the interior what we find it,
without the intuition of woman’s gentler
hand.
	’Tis not in costly dwelling or magnificent
mansion, neither at the table where great
display of variety and luxury abound, where
the most perfect hospitality is to be found;
instead as we missionaries can tell you,
often in remote towns and small villages,
where the sweet-faced Relief sisters have
gathered to meet us, either in their Presi-
dent’s or some one of the modest homes, we
have found a hearty welcome, a generous
hospitality far surpassing any ostentatious
reception given by wealth or magnificence.
We knew we felt their true womanhood, their 
sincerity and that Christ-like spirit that
God’s influence in their homes insures.


[Column 1]
	Sisters, our officers and the General Board
do appreciate your labors, your indefatigable
work, your generous treatment to us in all
the stakes of Zion, yes, throughout the world!
	Our work for others is what develops
character, ennobles life, strengthens man
and womanhood, cultivates friendship,
unites families and makes good citizens.
	There are rights which belong to guests in
the home also host and hostess and hospi-
tality considers and respects these. In a
well ordered home and when ’tis possible,
there are provisions made for a guest cham-
ber, it should be supplied with the necessary
furniture and furnishings but not the private
necessities, these, such as night robes, dress-
ing sacks, combs, brushes, towels, toilet
soap, pins, etc., every lady is supposed to
carry in her suit case as indispensable arti-
cles, however, if through accident or forget-
fulness on our part, these are, or have to be
supplied by the hostess, they should be
used with care and left in good condition.
	When one enters a home ’tis the duty of
the guest to ascertain the time for the ser-
vice of every meal, and she should make it
her duty to be present on time, to keep a
dinner waiting unless for an excellent rea-
son, is almost unpardonable. Every well
bred woman takes good care of her bed and
every article in the room, if the hostess
has her own work to do, the guest should
attend to her private apartment. If we are
going to visit a friend or even a relative ’tis
our duty to write and ask if it will be con-
venient for them to receive us, and we
should also state the time we expect to re-
main, on returning write and thank our
hostess for the pleasant stay enjoyed at her
house. Presents should be recognized, if
accepted in the same way
	Under the head of hospitality we group
respectability, for no family with dignity
and an understanding rightly balanced can
possibly lack this qualification. In our im-
mediate home circle, we should always re-
spect the privacy, the feelings of every
member, as well as those of visitors, bring-
ing congenial persons together when possi-
ble Never allow sacred things or subjects
discussed or spoken lighty of, reverence age,
and teach our young people to respect gray
hairs, set an example of kind courtesy and
keep our promises to our children and live
within our means. Make our personal ap-
pearance and homes attractive, gain the
confidence of each member therein. Allow
our young people every proper privilege,
give hospitality to their friends, invite good,
pure, honorable young men and women to
partake of that, influence and we will soon
have fewer subjects for reform schools, and
many more white souls in the walks of use-
ful ambition and respectable citizenship.
	Sisters, we were organized to be the
saviors of souls as well as to look after the
poor, the needy, the sick and sorrowful, to
minister to the dying and lay out the dead.
	We stand as the mothers of all other sis-
ter associations in our Church, organized
sixty-eight years ago by our greatly beloved
Prophet Joseph Smith, he who suffered per-
secution, imprisonment, yes, martyrdom
that the Gospel of our Savior Jesus Christ
might be re-established never more to be
thrown down! Do we fully appreciate this
fact, do we realize the opportunities we to-
day enjoy? Are we loyal to this cause and
to each other? Does our hospitality have
that connected circumference that it should
have? Are we the model wives, mothers
and friends that our light and knowledge
guarantee? Do we treat our husbands with

[Column 2]
the love and respect which is their due? Are
we the guardians in spirit and discipline to
our children what we should be at all times?
Are we just benefactors to the girls we em-
ploy in our homes? Are we in religious,
domestic and social life the representative
women our credentials warrant?
	If we are not, let us eradicate every selfish
thought, study to improve by inculcating
every true and worthy motive, ask for in-
spiration to lead and direct our every act,
our Father is merciful and He will assist us.
	Let us study the needs and best methods
to assist the poor, teach them to be self-
supporting. Visit the aged, the old and
new members in the wards, the late con-
verts from foreign countries, be kind and
considerate of their feelings, let them know
we are their friends, also, the widow and
orphans.
	God is our Father and He will hold us ac-
countable, if one of His children is through
neglect or our folly lost by the way. We
have the Gospel to direct us, as the chil-
dren of ancient Israel had Moses to lead
them.
	Sisters, we are blessed above many wo-
men, we have advantages, unlimited privi-
leges, few of the women in the world today
possess therefore, our hospitality should
encompass the universe, for it will eventu-
ally aid in reaching the eternity, uniting all
factions, creeds, nations, and people for
’twill be everlasting.
	May our Heavenly Parent grant us the
power to understand our whole duty, and
that we may have strength to do it is my
earnest and sincere prayer.
						J. P. M. F.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PHILOMELA SMITH LAKE.
	Among the many noble women who em-
braced the gospel in the early days of the
Church was Philomela Smith, daughter of
Parker Smith and Sally Loomis, she being
their sixth child, and born in Brookfield.
Prince Co., Vermont, April 13. 1794. At 
the age of twelve she was bereaved of her
mother and left to the care of her grand-
mother, Sarah Huntington Loomis, who,
although crippled with age, sat in her arm
chair and gave her daughter’s children the
benefit of her wise counsel in domestic
training, as also her deep religious convic-
tion, which was a natural result to all those
who were favored by a rich flow of Puritan
blood in their veins. Many of those splen-
did principles are embodied in the follow-
ing verses which have been handed down
to posterity by the poor lame grandmother
as she addressed herself to Philomela, who
was bereaved of a little brother.

	Your litlle brother is dead and gone:
	We all must die before ’tis long.
	And when you think he young did die
	Say, in the grave I soon may lie.

	And may you early learn to know
	Good children’s souls to God do go;
	At last their bodies sure will rise
	To dwell with Him above the skies.

	She also wrote the following acrostic for
Philomla.

	Pretty girls should always mind
	How they talk and spend their time.
	If they strive with all their might,
	Learn to spin, sew, read and write;
	Obey their parents and they’ll see
	Most glad they surely then will be.
	Every brother must be kind,
	Love sisters, too, and always mind
	And never quarrel or repine.

[Column 2]
	Some little girls are so pretty,
	Many would call them very witty.
	If they are proud they soon will know
	That shame is lurking there below,
	Hence friends will turn, they’ll find it so.

	Philomela, your poor, lame grandmother
has made and written this for you, and you
must have it rolled on a round stick and
keep it a long time to remember me by.
	Thus trained to love God and home, Phil-
omela was capable of taking upon herself
the duties of wife and mother. At the age
of eighteen years she married Ira Smith,
and with him became the mother of five
children viz.: Lyman, James Harvey, Eliz-
abeth Boardman, Josiah William and Es-
ther.
	Ira Smith died in the 36th year of his
age, Philomela then became the wife of
James Lake and with him again the mother
of ten children. She was a wise and loving
mother and was noted for the neatness and
order of her home. She was an adept in
all home manufacture. She knew the art
of spinning, and of dyeing the most beautiful
colors, and in the weaving of many kinds of
cloth she also excelled.
	Her fame as a maker of the best flavored
butter and cheese was known wherever her
name was heard.
	Her children partook of her meek and
docile yet lofty and noble nature and when
the gospel came to them in Upper Canada,
she with her husband and family were the
first ones to embrace it.
	Brigham Young took the gospel to them
and they were baptized by Eleazar Miller.
Their house was always a welcome place
for the elders traveling in Canada, Brigham
Young making their house his home for a
year or more. They gathered with the 
Saints and shared all the hardships of the
early days. James Lake with an ox team
and assisted by his sons, hauled the first
corner stone to the Kirtland Temple and
helped to lay it in its place as the begin-
ning of temple building in this dispensa-
tion.
	Philomela S. Lake received a Patriarchal
blessing under the hands of Joseph Smith,
the father of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, in
which he called her “Beloved of the Lord.”
which name was most appropriate, for she
was not only beloved of the Lord but by all
who knew her. She was tall and graceful,
with broad forehead and full dark brown
eyes. Her black hair was silken and luxur-
iant and the noble name of mother was ap-
propriate to her in its most dignified mean-
ing. Her husband was appointed Captain
of fifty and was successful in arriving in the
valley in the fall of 1850. They settled four
miles north of Ogden city on a farm. James
Lake was ordained a patriarch and many of
the saints of Weber county were comforted
through the blessing they received at his
hands. He was a member of the High
Council and with his wife enjoyed the honor
and esteem of all who knew them while al-
most worshiped by a numerous posterity,
members of which can be found in nearly
every settlement of the saints from Canada
to Mexico.
	I have often thought of the life and career
of my grandmother and have been led to
exclaim: 
	If every soul were of such worth,
	Nearer would heaven be to earth.
		SAMANTHA T. BRIMHALL FOLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR MOTHER’S SONGS.
Sing us the songs our mothers sung,
	Softly low, and o’er and o’er,
When our hearts were fresh, and we were young
	In beautiful days of yore.
The songs that linger in mem’ry dear,
And help us to live from year to year.

The mother’s song is a sweet refrain,
	Floating down the waves of time;
It soothed our childhood’s keenest pain,
	Tho’ ’twas only simplest rhyme,
And ever thro’ life’s dreariest days,
It cheers and gladdens loneliest ways.

Our mother’s songs of the long ago
	Wake old mem’ries here today,
Sing them tenderly, sweetly and low,
	List! the echoes far away,
Calling up scenes of days that are past,
Pictures in shadow, true to the last.

Sing for the veterans tho’ tears may come,
	Sing them songs both new and old,
Rejoice they’re here in their mountain home,
	Towers and temples they behold.
Valiant for truth that has made them free,
Life’s battle won—cometh victory.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Written for July 24, 1909.


[Column 1]
FAREWELL ADDRESS TO THE RELIEF
			SOCIETY. 
	The time has arrived when I must leave
the shores of good old England and return
to the land of Zion. My associations with
the sisters have been most pleasant and
never to be forgotten. I thank our heavenly
Father for the success attending the organi-
zation of the sisters into societies after the
pattern set by our beloved prophet Joseph
Smith. His inspired words at several meet-
ings of the first organization, I look upon as
of the greatest value and importance. They
have to be read and re-read to perceive
their deep meaning. There have been forty-
six societies organized and four more are
ready at this time to be organized, in the
British mission. There were but three so-
cieties when I arrived in England. Over
six hundred women have enrolled their
names as workers in this great cause of re-
lief to the poor, sick and afflicted, and in a
bond of mutual improvement.
	Let each sister remember that she has an
unfailing friend and adviser in her Heaven-
ly Father who is ever near and whose ear is
always open to hear the prayers of all who
who ask in faith; also we have the presence
of the Priesthood to advice and consult with
on all matters of doubt, and we should abide
their decisions. We must avoid all schisms
and everything that may lead to division or
dissatisfaction. Union, love, harmony and
goodwill to each other are the watchwords
of our societies. Loyalty to the officers ap-
pointed by the Priesthood is a sacred duty,
and we should give them our faith and pray-
ers and support, The Lord can prepare the
weakest who works by faith and in humility
to fill any position to which she may be call-
ed.
	I advise you not to take pride in hoard-
ing a large sum in the treasury, but rather
to look about and see where good can be
done, and some one helped and comforted.
Each society should arrange its work as best
suited to the needs of the locality, and strive
to always have work or material on hand
for willing hands to fashion into useful gar-
ments or fancy articles for sale at bazaars
or socials.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith said we should
gain wisdom from good books. These should
be selected so as to be interesting as well

[Column 2]
as instructive. Do not fail to have testi-
mony meetings at least once a month, and
gently urge the timid to rise and bear their
testimony.
	Just a word to societies just organized.
Conduct your meetings with singing and
prayer, the president or other sister in charge
giving out the hymns. After roll call, the
minutes are read by the secretary, correc-
tions are called for by the president and
noted by the secretary, after which they are
accepted by vote. They are then recorded
by the secretary, and the society should
purchase a good sized book to contain the
records, as they are often very valuable for
future reference. All money collected must
be cared for by the treasurer, as she is res-
ponsible for it. She should record all re-
ceipts and disbursements so that she can
make her books balance and show how
much money has been received and how
much disbursed, and what is on hand. If
the president and counselors see the necess-
ity of using, at once, money coming into
their hands, they should let the treasurer
have the record of amount received and
disbursed. The president is not to conduct
the affairs of the society without advising
with her counselors, ag a rule, but in
emergencies she can decide herself. A
small sum such as a penny or more should
be given at each meeting by each member
able to do so, but the poorest is just as val-
ued a member as anyone. Make it a matter
of duty, a pleasant one, too, to attend the
meetings, and go with full expectation of
bringing home at least one good helpful
thought.
	We should all act as missionaries to
spread the light of the gospel that we our-
selves have obtained, and will it not be
both interesting and instructive to take up
the principles one by one at a time for
study? The more we investigate and med-
itate on them the more light we gain and
faith in their efficacy and truth. These
principles should be so impressed on our
children that they will almost count the
days when they will be eight years old and
can be baptized. It is now decided that
children after becoming eight years old and
not baptized must at nine years be denied
the Sacrament. It seems cruel and very
remiss in their duty of parents not to see to
it that the children are not deprived of that
blessing. Teach the girls and boys too,
not to be boisterous or forward in manners
nor given to loud laughter when together in
socials or after meetings. The Lord is
pleased with cheerfulness and harmless fun,
but he says that much laughter is sin. We
can be happy and have the best of times
without excess of any kind. Mothers, re-
member this and impress it upon the chil-
dren.
	Let us strive to overcome the small errors
of life, and soon we will gain strength to
grapple with the larger ones. Mothers, be
watchful of your girls and boys, and give
proper instructions according to their years
and development. Every girl should be
taught to sew and to cook and to keep a
clean and even an artistic home, and the
boys to do their share in keeping order and
comfort in the house. Mr. Louis Potter, an
eminent portrait painter, after spending
some time in Salt Lake City, said, “The
young girl who does not know how to make
her owu clothes and how to conduct a house-
hold on right lines, and also see about the
care of children is not truly a Mormon
girl.” Every girl who has the honor of be-
ing a Latter-day Saint should be an exam-

[Column 3]
ple in deportment and neatness of appear-
ance.
	I must now say farewell. I shall take
the names of the officers of the Relief So-
cieties home with me, and will be pleased
to hear occasionally of your success. I
shall watch the “Star” with interest for
your record. My home address is 1175
Ninth East Street, Salt Lake City. Love
to you all, and again farewell!
		ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


R. S. REPORTS.
		REORGANIZATION.
	Minutes of the 12th 13th Ward Relief
Society held May 5th, 1910, President
Amelia W. Wardrop presiding. Meeting
opened by singing, “Come, come ye Saints.”
Prayer was offered by Bishop P. B. Platt.
Singing again, “Redeemer of Israel.” Roll
call showed an attendance of 5 officers, 30
members and 3 visitors. Reports of the
different blocks were given.
	President Wardrop made a few opening
remarks. She felt very grateful to the sis-
ters for the interest shown in the Relief So-
ciety work. Sister Carrie C. Platt then re-
ported the condition of the sick at the hos-
pital which was very encouraging. Sister
Matilda King volunteered to make the next
visit.
	Bishop Platt spoke for a short time,
stated that President Wardrop wished to be
released from her position on account of
having moved out of the ward, and that it
was with a feeling of deep regret that he
consented as she had been a most faithful
worker in the Relief Society. An oppor-
tunity was then given to the sisters to ex-
press their feelings towards Sister Wardrop.
Nearly all the sisters present expressed their
great love and respect for her, and told of
the grand and noble work she had done and
that her absence would make them feel that
they had lost a very dear friend.
	Sister James of the General Board and
Counselor in the Stake was present and
spoke in behalf of Sisters Romney and Annie
K. Hardy that they felt sorry indeed to
know that Sister Wardrop was to leave the
society, and that they all have the greatest
love and respect for her, urged the members
to uphold and sustain the new officers.
	Sister Wardrop said she had enjoyed her
labors very much, and that she felt very
sorry to leave wishing the new officers
much success and pleasure in their new
position.
	Sister Mary Winder Carrington was then
sustained as President, Sister Jane E.
Beatie First Counselor and Sister Henrietta
E. Hammer Second Counselor, they were set
apart for the positions by Bishop F. B. Platt.
A vote of thanks was given to Sister Emily
Y. Clawson for the good and faithful work
as Counselor while in office.
	President Carrington and her Counselors
each spoke a few words, saying they felt to
accept their position and that they would
do the best they could to fill it properly.
	Sister Emily Y. Clawson expressed her-
self briefly, that although she had been re-
leased from the position as Counselor she
would still attend the meetings as often as
she could and be one with the sisters.
	Meeting adjourned. Congregation sung
the Doxology and the benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Emma Derrick.
		HULDAH D. ERICKSON, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
parie[--]space[-]one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to[-]regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, U[-]ah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. - - JUNE, 1910.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	This number of the paper commences a
new volume of the first woman’s paper in
the Rocky Mountain region. It is also the
first woman’s paper in the West, that has
been continued so many years. Several
other papers edited, and published by wo-
men have been started but have for some
reason been discontinued. However, we
can safely say without fear of contradiction
that this paper has made a good record in
assisting all the women of the West and es-
pecially the Latter-day Saint women in
keeping up with woman’s work along many
of its various lines.
	In the work of the Relief Society it has
been particularly helpful, and in giving
sketches of notable women, who helped in
the early days in organizing this great Relief
Society and other associations, the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary.
	In helping women in many ways too
numerous to mention in detail when Utah
women took part in the Columbian Exposi-
tion in 1893 and other national affairs.
In the Woman’s Suffrage Association and the
National Council of Women of the United
States, it was this little paper that rendered
valuable assistance, and the women of the
Church should sustain it more liberally and
help to make it a periodical much mor
valuable than it is at present, one they
would be proud to keep and to recommend.
	This number opens volume 39. June
marks 38 years since its first publication.
We believe there are many women in the
Relief Society who do appreciate what the
paper has done in the past, and might be
helpful by saying a word in its support
financially, because that is the one thing
lacking to make it a success.


[Column 1]
		CURRENT EVENTS.
	The month of June, 1910, has been a
record month in many respects, here in Salt
Lake City at least; the weather has been de-
lightful except for lack of rain, and many
pleasant and notable events have transpired.
	First day of June the anniversay of the
birth of the great pioneer and founder of
Utah, Brigham Young, was appropriately
celebrated by his numerous family, with the
usual rejoicing and due ceremony.
	Later on, the 14th of June, the anniversary
of the birth of Heber C. Kimball, the Coun-
selor and co-laborer of Brigham Young, two
men whose names will stand together in the
history of the Church and of Utah through-

[Column 2]
out all time; on Heber C. Kimball’s anni-
versary a reunion of the Kimball family was
held in Whitney Hall, and Kimballs, older
and younger came from far and near; and
many old friends and acquaintances at-
ended the reunion by invitation, to honor
the memory of one whose name will always
necessarily be handed down to posterity in
closest connection with that of the great
chieftain, Brigham Young.
	The exercises at the hall were of a digni-
fied character, music excellent, and speeches
somewhat historical; perhaps the most nota-
ble was that of the Governor of the State,
His Excellency William Spry, who eulo-
gized the memory of this great pioneer, and
earnestly exhorted his sons to follow his
noble example.
	The June conferences of the Young Ladies’
and Young Men’s Mutual Improvement As-
sociations were also of more than usual in-
terest this year; they were numerously at-
tended and seemingly great advancement is
being made in the work in which these young
people are so earnestly engaged; which is
very hopeful for Zion’s future interests and 
welfare.
	These two organizations united in a re-
ception held in their new and commodious
apartments or headquarters in the Bishop’s
Building, but the exercises and dancing were
in the banqueting hall on the upper floor of
this substantial and handsome structure;
the hall was decorated and fitted up suita-
ble to such a momentous occasion. The
reception was given more particularly in
honor of the officers and members from out-
side the city in the several stakes and
branches of Zion, and that they might soci-
ally partake of the festivities which would
bring them nearer together than it is possi-
ble to get in a meeting, or conference where
there is more or less formality and really no
time for becoming acquainted.
	The music was excellent and the decor-
ations were in good taste, and a spirit of
friendliness and good fellowship was the
prevailing feeling throughout. Invitations
were extended to the officers of other organi-
zations and the presiding authorities of the
Church to participate in the enjoyment of
the evening and meet with the young peo-
ple from a distance who have not so many
opportunities of this kind, as those who re-
side here.
	It has been currently reported that there
have been more marriages this June than
any previous record, whether that is correct
we are not prepared to say, but we know
 that there have been a great many, and that
is a hopeful sign of the times; and certainly
the city is growing rapidly and fast becom-
ing a great center in this mountain region.
	Thousands of tourists call at the Bureau
of Information and purchase our home liter-
ature, of which samples are daily given away
also, and one can see on every hand that
prejudice is being gradually removed, not-
withstanding the slanderous reports that are
still being circulated.
	The Primary Associations must not be
forgotten in connection with June festivities.
It is a very noticeable fact that the children
of the Latter-day Saints at the present day
are being entertained and instructed in all
that pertains to their best welfare. The
sisters who are engaged in this department
have every facility and advantage possible
to assist them along all the lines and meth-
ods that help to develop the best within the
child in mind and body. The annual con-
ference of the Primary Associations was held
early in June and the officers came, many

[Column 3]
of them, from long distances, and the Gen-
eral officers spared no pains in entertaining
as well as counseling them. A reception
was held in the headquarters in the Bishop’s
Building, and the upper room or banqueting
hall was decorated with flags, banners
and flowers, and made beautiful in every de-
tail. The General President, Mrs. Louie B.
Felt, who has served now thirty years, was
shown every mark of respect possible. Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, himself in his re-
marks on the evening of the reception made
special mention of her long service and mag-
nificent work. President Felt is very ably
assisted by Miss May Anderson, who re-
lieves her of much of the responsibily and
detail work, and Mrs. Clara Woodruff Beebe
and the secretary, Mrs Olive D. Christensen,
are specially qualified also, and the mem-
bers of the Board who travel in the interest
of the associations are very earnest and de-
voted women. In speaking of this Primary
work mention should be made of its found-
ers and especially of Sister Aurelia S. Rogers,
who was instrumental in evolving the
thought of an organization for the little peo-
ple besides the Sunday School, feeling that
was not quite adequate to all the needs of
helpful teaching of the youngest of the chil-
dren of Zion. The development of the 
thought is in a large degree due to others.
	The evening devoted to the Primary was
unique in its exercises and very pleasing;
new games, new dances, new ways of treat-
ing subjects, were given by some of the
young women who excel along these par-
ticular lines of training the infant mind.
Altogether there was much variety and
great improvement in the status of the work,
and much interest we believe has been
aroused by means of the display made of 
the efforts to teach by doing.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	At a recent meeting of the officers and
General Board of the Relief Society held at
their own headquarters in the Bishop’s Build-
ing, resolutions were adopted pledging the
society to use its influence everywhere
against the barbarous noises and ruinous
employment of fire and gunpowder which
has for some years past characterized the
great general holiday of the nation. The
Relief Society makes a direct appeal to its
membership in all branches and stakes of
this great philanthropic institution to stand
for a sane and safe observance of the na-
tional holiday, as they do for peace and
good order at all times.
	June 17th, 1910, was the 87th anniversary
of the venerable and well beloved sister,
Julia Cruse Howe A beautiful afternoon
recepti[-]n was tendered her by her sons and
daughters-in law at the residence of C. R.
Howe in the 17th Ward in this city. The
decorations were very artistic, flowers every-
where and the rooms were as pretty as if
prepared for a bride. Such honor shown to
the aged mother is very pleasing and an ex-
ample that it might be well for others to
follow. Refreshments were served to all
guests throughout the afternoon by the
young girls of the Howe family assisted by
their young companions, and music instru-
mental and vocal added to the pleasure of
those who called to pay their respects to
this worthy woman. Sister Howe was un-
tiring in her labors for the public welfare
until age and some of its natural infirmities
compelled her to relinquish one after an-
other of the positions she had filled with


zeal and credit to the work and to all con-
cerned therein. May life be sweet to her
while she remains here on earth and friends
and relatives make her days serenely happy
and comfortable.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A JUNE WEDDING.

“Wedded love is founded on esteem,
Which the fair merits of the mind engage,
For those are charms which never can decay;
But time which gives new whiteness to the swan,
Improves their lustre.”

	Wednesday June 22nd, 1910, the marriage
of Margaret Cannon and David H. Clayton, Jr.
was solemnized in the Salt Lake Temple at
high noon. The ceremony was performed
by President Joseph F. Smith.
	An informal reception was held from 3 to
5 the same afternoon at the home of the
bride’s parents, General and Mrs. John Q.
Cannon. The simple decorations were in
yellow and green, mustard blossoms and
foliage being much in evidence and attrac-
tively displayed with other simple flowers
and vines. The bride carried a bouquet of
white roses and was beautifully gowned in
simple white muslin and lace; she looked
as charming as the most beautiful Marguer-
te of the poet Tennyson.
	There were Cannons and Wells’s and
Claytons and Browns, and others to offer
congratulations and good wishes, and desires
for their long life and happiness; and when
the reception was over amidst the whirl of
excitement the carriage was announced and
the bride and groom departed on their wed-
ding journey, with showers of rice and an
abundance of old shoes flung after them by
the little folks of the family. There were no
regrets and only a few tears for when the
young girl leaves her home, there is always
a loneliness in the hearts of the parents
however bright the future prospects may be.

	Let fools spurn Hymen’s gentle powers,
	We who improve its golden hours,
	By sweet experience know
	That marriage rightly understood,
	Gives to the tender and the good
		A paradise below.


RECEPTION AT THE McCUNE MANSION.
	The Genealogical Society of Utah gave a
grand reception and musicale at the elegant
residence of Hon. and Mrs. A. W. McCun[-]
on Wednesday evening, June 15th, 1910.
The elegant home opened its doors to a very
large number of the citizens of Utah. Three
thousand cards of invitation were issued
and many responded, the President of the
Society, the Right Hon. Anthon H. Lund,
and the Vice President, Joseph F. Smith,
Jr. were present in person, and Elder Ben-
jamin H. Goddard, the active agent of this
mportant work, was one of the committee
busy in anticipating the wishes of all to take
part in the pleasures of the evening.
	The music was exquisite and the floral
decorations were artistic as well as fragrant,
but the home in itself was the one attrac-
tion to those who had an opportunity to see
all the beautiful furnishings and adorn-
ments. One might fancy being in an old
castle or abbey of the 15th century so far as
elegance and sumptuousness, only that
everything bears the stamp of modern times.
The hall in the upper story is so unique in
tself that the dancing seemed a second con-
sideration though the music was charming.
	The committee of ladies were very atten-
tive and solicitous to have all the guests
meet the hostess and the principal people


interested in this wonderful society, and al-
together the evening entertainment was a
perfect success; but it is doubtful in our
mind whether those present comprehended
much of the vast magnitude of the work
this new society represents. 
	If an incentive to become members and 
enter into the spirit of this far-reaching sal-
vation-promoting organization has been
given through bringing together such a large
number of people, then the entertainment
has been a great step in the advancement of 
what is to be accomplished in work for the
dead in the Temples of the Lord.


AFTERNOON SOCIAL. 
	On Thursday afternoon, June 30th, a party
of old acquaintances met at the Bee Hive
House by invitation of Mrs. Julina L. Smith
and Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler. It was a
beautiful day, and the warm welcome given
by the hospitable hostesses was very sugges-
tive of the enjoyment to follow. The Smith
girls were very attractive and gracious in
waiting upon the guests.
	The meeting of those who had not had
such an opportunity recently of conversing
together was delightful, and one could not
help recalling the old Scotch song, “Should
auld acquaintance be forgot and never
brought to mind.” However the guests
were entertained with fine music, Marion
Whitney Dinwoodey, a gifted contralto
celebrity, sang several times accompanied
by Miss Sybella Clayton, whose fame as a
pianist is widespread also a number of old-
time songs were delightfully sung by Miss
Glen Thomas. The music added greatly to
the entertainment of the ladies.
	An old-fashioned hot and sumptuous din-
ner was one of the delightful features of the
afternoon, and was thoroughly enjoyed by
all present, who did ample justice to the
well-cooked viands.
	Remembrances of Nauvoo and pioneer
days in the valley were talked over during
the afternoon, and the hours flew swiftly.
Such occasions are rare, but it is good to
meet together socially, and recall the hal-
cyon days of youth, even more than the
hard times.
	Of the number of ladies present at this
unique gathering twelve had lived in Nau-
voo, Sisters Agnes Taylor Swartz, Mary Ann
Oakley Taylor Lucy Walker Kimball, Delia
Ann Bishop Pratt, Emmeline B. Wells,
Hannah Free Wells, Susan Alley Wells,
Margaret Judd Clawson, Susan West Smith,
Jane Pratt Kesler, Emma Smith Woodruff,
Sarah Jenne Cannon.
	The other ladies present were Julia Cruse
Howe, Elizabeth Murphy, Margaret Y. Tay-
lor, Priscilla P. Jennings, Rachel B. Patrick,
Katherine Howard Brockbank, Mahala Jen-
kins, Sarah E. Richards Smith. The after-
noon will be long remembered and the kind-
ly feeling that prompted it in the hearts of
mother and daughter will be cherished while
life lasts by all who participated in the
pleasurable enjoyment,


[Column 1]
TESTIMONY OF SISTER M. ISABELLA
			HORNE.
	Having been requested by the late Apos-
tle Abraham Owen Woodruff, some months
prior to his death, to leave my personal
testimony io my children concerning the
life, character, labors and mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, as well as the divin-
ity of the covenant of plural marriage. I
cheerfully comply as follows:

[Column 2]
I first met the Prophet Joseph Smith in
the fall of 1837, at my home in the town of
Scarborough, Canada West.
	When I first shook hands with him I was
thrilled through and through, and I knew
that he was a Prophet of God, aud that tes-
timony has never left me, but is still strong
within me, and has been a monitor, to me,
so that I can now bear a fnithful testimony
to the divinity of the mission of that great
man of God.
	During the three days’ series of meetings,
held in a new barn which your father had
built, the Prophet made his home with us.
The use of this barn became a necessity,
because the Methodists, who were bitterly
opposed to us, refused to let their churches
to the Prophet and Saints.
	As an example of Brother Joseph’s hu-
mility as well as his respect for authority, I
mention the following: As soon as he reached
Toronto. Canada, he inquired who the pre-
siding officer was. On learning that it was
the late President John Taylor, the Prophet
said, “Send for him, as I desire to hold a
meeting with the people.” When President
Taylor arrived, Brother Joseph said, “Broth-
er Taylor, I am the Prophet Joseph. I want
you to call a meeting, as I would like to"
talk to the Saints.”
	While in Canada he visited all the branch-
es of the Church, and gave the Saints in-
structions on the organization and order of
the priesthood, respect for proper authority,
corrected some of the mis-translations of
the Bible, and took pleasure in answering
questions pertaining to the gospel and the
organization of the Church. Brother and
Sister Taylor, your father and I enjoyed the 
privilege of accompanying the Prophet on
these visits.
	On one occasion, while eating dinner at
the residence of Brother John Scott, the
Prophet jocularly said to me, “Sister Horne,
you are literally fulfilling scripture, aren’t
you?” ‘‘How is that, Brother Joseph?’’ I
asked. “You are bearing the Homes of
Joseph to push the people together,” he re-
plied. This created mueh laughter among
the guests,
	During the year following the Prophet’s
visit to Canada, your father and I removed
to the United States, and finally settled in
Quincy, Illinois.
	In compliance with a revelation from the
Lord commanding him to lay our grievances
before the Judges, Governors, and even the
President of the United States, the Prophet
Joseph in company with a number of the
brethren, came to Quincy, and the Prophet
laid the condition of the affairs of the Church
before Governor Carlin.
	On his return from his visit to Governor
Carlin, the Prophet sent the brethren ahead
on their return trip, telling them he would
follow later. When he reached Lima, where
they intended to remain over night, he found
officers of the law awaiting him. They ar-
rested him and brought him back to Quincy.
This was Friday Evening. About noon the
next day, the Prophet came to our house and
said, “Siser Horne, the Spirit always draws
me to your home.”
	“Brother Joseph,” I said,“you are always
welcome. But how is it you are here when I
thought you were almost home?”
	“Haven’t you heard that I have been in
court all morning?” he asked. 
	I replied that I had not.
“Well, I have,” he said, “I told the offi-
cers that I would be forthcoming at any
hour in the morniug they might name, if
they would let me go, so here I am. What


am I to do? They won’t let me have my
trial in Nauvoo, but are going to take me
to Walla Walla. I thought I should be
at home by this time where my wife would
look after my clothing, as it is in need of
attention.
	“I will wash your clothing,” I answered.
	“Indeed, Sister Horne, you do not look
able to do it.”
	I insisted, and he finally consented, as I
told him my Saturday’s work was all done.
I prepared his clothing that afternoon, so
that he was ready for his journey in the
morning.
	Sister Cleveland, who had heard of the
Prophet’s arrest, came to see him, and met
him at the door just as he was leaving. As
she shook hands with him she began speak-
ing in tongues. Brother Joseph listened
until she had finished, then turned to us
and said, “You need have no fears for me;
as Sister Cleveland says I shall have my
trial and be acquitted.”
	He was acquitted, and was received with
great honors on his arrival at his home.
	The last time I shook hands with the
Prophet was at the Mansion Honse, on an
occasion when I had called to see part of
the family.
	I testify that Joseph Smith was the great-
est Prophet that ever lived on this earth,
the Savior only excepted. There was a
personal magnetism about him which drew
all people who became acquainted with
him to him.
	I feel greatly honored when I realize that
I have had the privilege of personally en-
tertaining this great man, of ministering to
his temporal wants, of shaking hands with
him, and listening to his voice. I heard
him relate his first vision, when the Father
and Son appeared to him; also his receiving
the gold plates from the Angel Moroni. This
recital was given in compliance with a
special request of a few particular friends
in the home of Sister Walton, whose house
was ever open to the Saints. While he was
relating the circumstances the Prophet’s
countenance lightened up, and so wonder-
ful a power accompanied his words that
everybody who heard them felt his influence
and power, and none could doubt the truth
of his narration. I know that he was true
to his trust, and that the principles he ad-
vanced and taught are true.
	I solemnly testify that I know that the
principle of plural marriage is true; that it
came direct from God. I have had evidence
of its truthfulness, and have lived in it for
nearly fifty years. I counsel all my poster-
ity to avoid condemning or making light of
this sacred principle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

GRNERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
		SECOND DAY.
The Relief Society Conference convened
Saturday morning, April 2, 1910, in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this city, Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing “Come, come, ye
Saints,” prayer by Sister R. A. Lyman, sing-
ing "Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire."
	Dr. George W. Middleton delivered an in-
teresting and instructive address, on Tuber-
culosis, its prevention, etc. The learned
Dr. prefaced his remarks by saying he ap-
preciated the privilege of speaking to the
Relief Society, and was always proud of this
organization of women who are working in
the best interests of humanity. Dr. Mid-
dleton gave many excellent facts and figures,

[Column 2]

and the most earnest warning to all to use
methods of sanitation and prevention; he
informed his audience that in times of war
more soldiers die of the infection of the
camps than are killed in the battle, he men-
tioned by way of illustration that the Japan-
ese had put this knowledge to a test in the
war with Russia—for ten years the Japanese
had young men studying in the colleges, all
things pertaining to sanitation and bacteri-
ology, and stated that if an army invaded
our country and one-half the number should
be killed that die annually from tubercu-
losis infection, we would be aghast. The
lecturer occupied an hour’s time and was
listened to with the greatest interest, many
of the ladies taking notes. The Dr. closed
his address by mentioning a book that is
now adopted by the State Board of Educa-
tion,and he hoped would be adopted by our
General board of the Relief Society. The
book is entitled "Primer of Sanitation, by
Ritchie." In recommending the book the
Dr. added, "If we lived up to the knowledge
we possess we could stamp out this terrible
plague. The opportunity that has come to
this Relief Society to stretch out for the suf-
ferings of our fellow men is beyond expres-
sion." After the lecture the conference di-
vided into department meetings, viz: Sec-
retaries and Treasurers, Mother’s work, and
Nurse class work, for an hour’s consultation
on these subjects.

	AFTERNOON SESSION.

	Conference convened in the Assembly
Hall at 2 p. m., President Bathsheba W.
Smith presiding. Congregation sung "Glori-
ous things of Thee are spoken." Prayer by
Sister Susan Grant. Prof. Horace S. Ensign
rendered a solo.
	General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells
made the opening address: the subject,
“The Relief Society,” which is so broad and
comprehensive that there is never time for
the half to be told, the 17th of March, 1910,
was the 68th anniversary of its organization,
there were just eighteen persons present on
that occasion, but they were selected for
this purpose, choice women fitted to under-
take this wonderful philanthropic, benevo-
lent work. From this select coterie of ladies
has sprung and spread abroad this magnifi-
cent society, numbering nearly 40,000 wo-
men in our own and foreign lands, and upon
the islands of the sea. The development
of women in many directions of thought and
work and the advancement that has charac-
terized the movement in uplifting the mind
and soul is incalculable. What the world
owes to the idea of womans’ organizations
is immeasurably greater than we have ever
attempted to claim. But we do know we
were the first to be organized in this way,
and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the
founder of this Relief Society, and that we
owe much to Brigham Young who set the
example of unifying the work in branches
and stakes, and to Sister Eliza R. Snow and
her co-workers in carrying out the plan of
correlating so perfectly all the district or-
ganizations of the same kind into one solid
whole with divisions and subdivisions.
The speaker explained why the Relief
Society did not have a general outline of
Mother’s work for the entire society, and
stated that it was to help educate and de-
velop the sisters in their own locality by
doing the thinking and studying of the sub-
jects required, which is all helpful to the
mind and heart. The address closed with
a tribute to the early workers, the great wo-
men of the past, who have enriched our

[Column 3]

lives by their genuine public efforts and per-
sonal self-sacrifice for others, and by the as-
sociation among the people of their own
localities, these few words and much more.
Recitation by Ardella Tibby, "The Soul
of the Violin."
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth gave an in-
teresting paper on Hospitality, which we
publish in full on another page.
	Soprano solo by Lizzie Thomas Edward,
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams spoke on "Ex-
tremes." The speaker felt she had a diffi-
cult subject to deal with and alluded to the
fact which seems apparent that our leaders
were desirous, that the Latter-day Saints
should be as nearly perfect as mortals can
be. The Prophet began the reform by giv-
ing the Saints the “Word of Wisdom.”
Now scientists are taking up the subject
and claim that life would be longer if we
were not such extremists. Nature is mod-
erate in all its actions; the seasons prepare
the earth for the work it has to do. Re-
member Brigham Young, realizing the wo-
men had given too much attention to dress
and to food, organized Retrenchment Asso-
ciations; if there is a place where women
are extremists it is in the work they do; we
should maintain as much simplicity in our
households as it is possible to do. I have
never seen women manage their work like
our women who are called to so much pub-
lic work, but the Lord helps us to do our
duties in the home as well as our Church
duties. In the city conditions are very dif-
ferent to what they are in the country. The
moving picture shows, the resorts running
all night or nearly so, draw our children,
and it is hard to curtail children’s amuse-
ments. Nearly every night there are diver-
sions for the young people; and I believe
that the Latter-day Saint women are not in-
clined to over-dress, they want things beau-
tiful and neat, but not extravagant, and I
do not think it necessary to speak of this
subject, we are moderate, we try to observe
the Word of Wisdom and to obey counsel
of those wiser than we are; but the problem
is before us and we must adjust conditions
as best we can. The speaker closed with a
prayer for our welfare and faithful perform-
ance of our duties required of us from time
to time.
	Emma Woodruff, President of Granite
Stake Relief Society, was to discuss the topic
“Extremes,” she announced that she was
not a preacher but a worker, she believed
in the Relief Society work, and to do all
that is required of us; thought we were try-
ing to do right and live our religion.
	Sister Harriet B. Harker referred to Sister
E. B. Wells’ remarks about the younger
women preferring to remain in the Young
Ladies’ M. I. A., she wondered if we made
our meetings as interesting and as profitable
as we might, for there could be no reason
why they should not join the Relief Society
at the proper age. Sister Harker quoted
from Paul, "We should be temperate in all
things," and remarked those words are just
as true today as when they were uttered.
Extremes in any thing are not profitable.
Let us not have "fads" nor extremes of any
sort; we often hear of people who are ex-
tremists in this and that direction, but let
us remember to be temperate and moderate
and as wise as possible.
	Sister Amy Brown Lyman felt very much
interested in the Relief Society work, though
she was quite new in it, she appreciated
the fact that we needed this relief work,
this work to develop us. Sister Lyman
mentioned the subject of purity, and that


this Church had always taught equal purity
in men and women a fact to which the world
was but just awakening.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne presented a reso-
lution on Home Products, to the effect that
we use our efforts and influence to sustain
all home products in preference to others.
Resolution was passed unanimously by the
entire assembly. Congregation sung, "We
thank thee, O God, for a prophet. Benedic-
tion by Sister Julina L. Smith.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Secretary.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
Secretary pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE FIRST WOMAN PHYSICIAN.
	Dr. Elizabeth Blackwel[-], the first woman
to take the degree of M.D., passed away on
May 31, 1910, at her home in Hastings, Eng-
land, aged nearly 90 years.
	Elizabeth Blackwell was born near Bristol,
England, on February 6, 1821. She was the
daughter of Samuel and Hannah (Lane)
Blackwell. Her father was a sugar refiner,
much respected for his high character, a man
of progressive ideas, and in favor of repub-
lican institutions. He sailed with his fam-
ly for America in 1832, and engaged in
sugar-refining in New York. He was warm-
ly interested in the anti-slavery movement,
and in 1838 moved to Cincinnati, Ohio,
partly with the hope of introducing the cul-
tivation of beet sugar, and thereby making
the slave grown cane-sugar unprofitable. But
he died soon after reaching Cincinnati, leav-
ing a widow and nine children dependent on
their own exertions.
	The mother and the older daughters, of
whom Elizabeth was the third, opened a lit-
tle school. Later, Elizabeth taught a dis-
trict school in Henderson, Ky., also taking
private pupils in music and languages. She
was a successful teacher, and received much
social attention, but the frivolous character
of the young men she met did not attract
her. In a letter home, replying to a sug-
gestion that she might marry in Henderson-
she wrote: "I cannot find any other half
here, but only about a sixth, which would
not do."
	Elizabeth was first led to turn her atten-
tion to medicine by the case of a lady friend
who died of a painful illness, of such a na-
ture that it was a severe distress to her mod-
esty to have to receive treatment from a
male physician. She often told Elizabeth
that she would have given anything to be
able to go to a woman doctor.
	Elizabeth wrote to several physicians and
other persons of more or less distinction,
consulting them as to her plan. She said:
“The answers were curiously unanimous.
They all replied to the effect that the idea
was a good one, but that it was impossible
to accomplish it.”
	Dr. Warrington, an old Quaker physician
of Philadelphia, wrote: “I have personally
applied to some of the most intelligent and
liberal-minded ladies of my acquaintance
how far the services of a well-educated fe-
male physician would be appreciated by
them. The response uniformly is, ‘No fe-
male could become acceptable to us, either
as a teacher or practitioner of medicine.”
	But the young girl was, not to be discour-
aged. She went, in 1845, to teach in a
school at Asheville, N. C., kept by a Rev.
John Dickinson, who had previously been a
doctor. Here she studied medicine private-

[Column 2]
ly under him in the intervals of her teaching.
It was before the time of railroads, and two
of her brothers drove her from Cincinnati to
Asheville, eleven days’ journey, crossing
three ranges of mountains and several rivers.
Later, Dr. Samuel H. Dickson, a distin-
guished physician and a professor in the
Medical College of Charleston, S. C., ob-
tained her a position as music teacher in
the fashionable boarding school of Mrs. Du
Pre, in that city, and himself directed the
medical studies that she carried on in her
spare hours.
	In 1847, she went to Philadelphia with
her small savings, studied anatomy under
Dr. Allen, and applied for admission to each
of the four medical col[-]eges of that city; but
in vain. Dr. Pankhurst, professor of sur-
gery in the largest college in Philadelphia,
offered to admit her to his classes, on con-
dition that she would disguise herself as a
man. This she refused to do. Some friends
told her she would have to go to Paris to
study; others said Paris was so immoral that
it would be impossible for a young unmar-
ried woman to take a medical course there.
She said to one of these: “If the path of
duty led me to hell I would go there and
do not think that by being with devils I
should become a devil myself.” She also
wrote to Mrs. Willard of Troy: “I must ac-
complish my end. I consider it the noblest
and most useful path that I can tread, and
if one country rejects me I will go to an-
other.”
	Application to the large medical schools
of New York also proving unsuccessful, she
sent requests for admission to twelve of the
country colleges, including Geneva Univer-
sity (now Hoba[-]t College). Geneva con-
sented. Dr. Stephen Smith, who was a
member of that year’s medical class at Gen-
eva, published in the Church Union some
years ago an account of the matter. He
says that the faculty did not wish to receive
her, and they referred the question to the
class, with a proviso that if a single student
objected, she should not be admitted. The
class consisted of about 150 young men.
He says: "They were rude, boisterous and
riotous beyond comparison. On several oc-
casions the residents of the neighborhood
sent written protests to the faculty, threat-
ening to have the college indicted as a nui-
sance if the disturbance did not cease. Dur-
ing lectures it was often almost impossible
to hear the professors.”
	Of Elizabeth’s application, Dr. Smith
says:
	"The whole affair assumed the most ludi-
crous aspect to the class, and the announce-
ment was received with the most uproarious
demonstrations of favor. A meeting was
called for the evening, which was attended
by every member. The resolution approv-
ing the admission of the lady was sustained
by a number of the most extravagant speech-
es, which were enthusiastically cheered. The
vote was finally taken, with what seemed to
be one unanimous yell. ‘Yea!’ When the
negative vote was called, a single voice was
heard uttering a timid ‘No.’ The scene that
followed passed description. A general rush
was made for the corner of the room which
emitted the voice, and the recalcitrant mem-
ber was only too glad to acknowledge his
error and record his vote in the affirmative.”
	“At a meeting of the entire class of Gen-
eva Medical College, held this day, Oct. 20,
1847, the following resolutions were unani-
mously adopted;
	1. Resolved that one of the radical prin-

[Column 3]
ciples of a Republican Government is the
universal education of both sexes; that to
every branch of scientific education the door
should be open equally for all; that the ap-
plication of Elizabeth Blackwell to become
a member of our class, meets our entire ap-
probation; and in extending our unanimous
invitation we pledge ourselvos that no con-
duct of ours shall cause her to regret her at-
tendance at this institution.”
	“Two weeks or more elapsed, and as the
lady student did not appear, the incident of
her application was quite forgotten, and the
class continued in its riotous career. One
morning, all unexpectedly, a lady entered
the lecture room with the professor. She
was quite small of stature, plainly dressed,
appeared diffident and retiring, but had a
firm and determined expression of face.
Her entrance into the Bedlam of confusion
acted like magic upon every student. Each
hurriedly sought his seat, and the most ab-
solute silence prevailed. For the first time,
a lecture was given without the slightest
interruption. The sudden transformation
of this class from a band of lawless desper-
adoes to gentlemen, by the mere presence
of a lady, proved to be permanent in its ef-
fects. A more orderly class of medical
students was never seen than this, and it
continued to be to the end of the term.”
	She soon won the esteem of students and
professors, but she was ostracised by Geneva
society. A doctor’s wife at her boarding
house refused to speak to her, Women
passing her on the streets held their skirts
aside.
	The press commented humorously on the
phenomenon of a girl studying medicine.
The Baltimore Sun remarked that she should
confine her practice to diseases of the heart.
The Boston M[-]dical Journa[-] said: “She is a
pretty little specimen of the feminine gen-
der, reporting her age as 26. She comes
into the class with great composure, takes
off her bonnet and puts it under the seat,
exposing a fine phrenology- The effect on
the class is good, and great decorum is ob-
served while she is present.”
	During the summer vacation she studied
in the women’s department of the great
Blockley Almshouse in Philadelphia. The
head physlcian, Dr. Benedict, showed her
much good will, but the young resident
physicians were unfriendly, and when she
walked into any ward they walked out,
They even ceased to write the diagnosis and
treatment of the patient on the card at the
head of each bed, as had been the custom,
so she was thrown wholly on her own re-
sources. But she managed to learn a great
deal.
	To her anxious mother she wrote: "Do
not fear for me. I live simply, do my duty,
trust in God, and mock at the devil.”
	At the almshouse the problems connected
with the social evil were for the first time
brought strongly to her attention. She
wrote to her sister: “I do not know if I have
ever told you how deep this matter of licen-
tiousness has gradually sunk into my soul,
and that the determination to wage a war
ef extermination with it strengthens con-
tinually, and the hope of gaining power and
experieuce to do it worthily is one of my
strongest supports in action. So help me
God, I will not be blind, indifferent or stupid
in relation to this matter, as are most women.
The world can never be redeemed till this
central relation of life is placed on a truer
footing.” Elizabeth graduated at the head
of her class.—Boston Woman's Journal,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL SOCIAL FOR PRESIDENT AND
			SISTER PENROSE.
	
	On Friday evening, June 10th, a most ex-
cellent social was held in honor of President
and Sister Penrose previous to their depart-
ure for Zion.  The hall at Durham House
was well filled with visitors and an excellent
program was rendered.  At the close of the
program, to each of the guests was presented 
a valuable and very beautiful ring, a token
from the Elders in all the European mission,
the sisters of the Relief Society and Saints
and friends of the various branches in these
isles.  The rings were each set with one
large pure white diamond purchased in
Amsterdam.  President Thatcher of the
Netherlands-Belgium mission gave his good
offices in the purchase of the gems, assisted
by a diamond merchant of thirty years ex-
perience, an uncle of Elder Korthals of that
mission.  After a half day spent in examin-
ing stones in one of the biggest emporiums
in Amsterdam, two were selected which the
expert, Elder Korthals’ uncle, declared to 
be absolutely perfect in every detail.  It
was a pleasure to be able to present such
gems to our honored guests and the re-
sponses were made with great feeling.  After
all other parts of the program had been 
gone through with, refreshments of cake and 
sandwiches, ice cream of strictly American
make, and strawberries were served.  It was 
a delightful evening in every respect.— Mil-
lennial Star.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society convened June 23rd,
1910, in the Ninth Ward meetinghouse,
President Annie S. Musser presiding.
	Elder Hugh J. Cannon, President of
Liberty Stake, Elders C. W. Symons and
Milando Pratt of the High Council. Sisters
E. S. Wilcox and A. K. Hardy, of the Gen-
eral Board of the Relief Society were present.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox gave us some
timely instructions. President Cannon and
Elder Symons each spoke briefly giving us
some good advice and words of encourage-
ment and comfort.
	The afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock
Judge Alex. McMaster of the Juvenile Court
delivered a very interesting and instructive
lecture on existing conditions and how to
overcome the evils which exist today. The
Judge was listened to with much interest.
	Sisters Annie K. Hardy and E. S. Wilcox
addressed us for a short time endorsing all
that had been done and said.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success. After singing and
benediction conference adjourned for six
months.
					Lizzie Robbins, Sec.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the fifty-first regular quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of Uintah
Stake, held at Glines Ward, June 2nd, 1910,
beginning at 10 a. m., President Nancy A.
Colton presiding.
	After opening exercises minutes, roll call,
etc. President Nancy A. Colton welcomed
the brethren and sisters, was pleased to see
so many of the Relief Society workers pres-
ent, especially the President of Roosevelt
(from the reservation); spoke of Mothers

[Column 2]
Work and what a great good it was doing,
especially among the young mothers.
	Lecture on Church History by Mrs. Alice
Merrill of Maeser Ward, which was very ably
handled.
	Song, “When there’s love at home.”
	Mrs. May Y. Lambert felt well in meeting
with the sisters, it being the first time she
had had the privilege of being to a Relief
Society conference, she also reported the
Roosevelt society in good condition.
	Mrs Annie K. Bartlett spoke of the lecture
we had listened to. The revelation that we
had just listened to; encouraged us to press
onward and do all the good we can, encour-
aged the sisters to be diligent in getting the
lectures given us, spoke of what a great
blessing the Church school was to the com-
munity.
	Singing, and benediction by Mrs. Fannie
E. Stewart.
	Afternoon session: continued, singing and
prayer and song from Vernal First Ward by
Mrs. Minnie Davis accompanied by Mrs.
Myrtle Belcher.
	Essay from Jensen Ward by Mrs. Mary A.
Chatwin entitled “Temperance.”
	In the absence of Mrs. Emma Woods who
was to give the lecture on Mothers Work,
Mrs. Anna Smart volunteered to give it.
Lecture entitled “The home as a factor in
education.”
	Questions on the lecture were asked by
Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart and answered by the
brethren and sisters.
	Song from Maeser Ward by a group of
Relief Society workers. Recitation by Mrs.
Grace Colton, title “Once More.”
	President Colton made a few closing re-
marks, urged the sister to try and put what
they had heard into practice. Thanked the
sisters of Glines Ward for their hospitality.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
	Bishop Joseph McKee thought we had
food for thought, if we will only put it into
practice we will be greatly benefitted, he
spoke at some length on reverence.
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham thought we
should try and put what we had heard into
practice; spoke of the mission of mothers.
Singing, “Our Lord we raise to Thee.” Bene-
diction by Elder Ernest Eaton.
			Phebe A. Merkley, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the Memory of our beloved Sister Ellen. D. 
Clarke. Who passed away at her home in Amer- 
ican Fork, April 13th, 1910. Aged 70 years No-
vember 22nd.
	In being called upon to part with Sister Clarke
we realize that a very dear Friend, has been ta-
ken from our midst; one who was always ready
to help, to comfort, or to contribute of her means
for the benefit of others. Her home was open at
all times, and a warm welcome accorded the call-
er. We feel to bow in humility to the rod. But
Oh how we miss her kind hand, and her gentle
presence, her word of kindness and the sweet
spirit accompaning it. It is hard to be reconciled
to our loss.
	Her seat in our meeting is empty. Her pray-
ers and testimony will be heard no more in our
midst. But the work she has done, and the bless-


ings she has bestowed upon her sisters will be
long remembered, her sayings will be cherished
and her good deeds emulated. She has finished
her work and gone to her rest, leaving a family
of faithful, dutiful, sons and daughters, who
will continue her labors, and help keep her mem-
ory green.
	We who have been associated with her for so many
years know her sterling worth, and we realize that
her loss leaves a vacancy in our hearts that will
not be filled until we meet her in that home,
where there is no sorrow and where parting never
comes. Sister Clarke was a great advocate of seri-
culture having raised the cocoons, reeled the silk
and made silk dresses for herself and daughters.
Truly it may be said of her she sustaind home
manufacture and she was a saint of God in very
deed. “Give her of the fruit of her hands, and
let her own works praise her in the gates.”
A Sister and Loving Friend.
	And in behalf of the Sisters of the Relief Society
of the Alpine Stake we extend to her children
our deepest sympathy, and pray that He who has
said, “That a sparrow falleth not unnoticed”,
will grant unto them His loving tender care, and
be a Father unto the Fatherless
	We desire this Memoriam be kept on record,
and a copy given to the bereaved family, also a
copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT of which
she was a subscriber since thelst of its publication.
	How tender she was at the couch of pain
		How willing her sisters to bless,
	The poor felt her liberal hand in theirs
		Her works were of righteouness,
	Her counsels were fraught with wisdom
		Hers teaehings were full of love
	Her example will bear fruition;
		That will follow her above.
					Emma Featherstone
					Orpha Robinson
					Elisabeth J. Durrant.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt continues to
improve. She has left the hospital for her
home, at 2 w. 86th Street, New York City,
and she expected to be able to dispense with
a trained nurse about the time this paper
will reach our readers. The latter part of
July, if she is strong enough, she hopes to
go away to some couutry place for the sum-
mer.


School of Nurses

DR ROBERTS’ SCHOOL OF NURSING
Will open in Salt Lake City, on Mon-
day, September 19, 1910.
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts is a gradu-
ate of the Woman’s Medical College
of Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Twenty-five years a practicing phy-
sician in Salt Lake City . . . . . . . .
Twenty years has taught nursing 
and obstetrics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For seven years Instructor of the 
Latter-day Saints Relief Society 
School of Nurses . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For further Information write to
MARGARET C. ROBERTS, M. D.,
	79 C. Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Bell Phone 2002.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY 
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1910.					No. 2.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Florence Nightingale.........................E. B. W.	9
Lawn Party and Banquet..........Marie Francis	11
Missionary Experiences (Continued).............	11
Sketch of the Life of Eunice Billings Snow...	13
Universal Municipal Suffrage for Women in
	Norway..................................Emily Hill	15
A Great Demonstration...................................	15
A Tribute.........................................J. P. M. F.	14
Obituary..........................................................	15
Notes and News..............................................	16
Relief Society Stake Reports: Ogden.............	13
	Out-door Meetings.................................	13
Editorial:—President Bathsheba W. Smith....	12
	Are the Watchmen on the Towers...........	12
	Visit Abroad............................................	15
	A Favorite Songstress.............................	16
	Editorial Notes........................................	12
Poetry:—The Comforter..........Ellis R. Shipp	9


THE COMFORTER.
There’s a whispering voice that awakens
	The tenderest notes of my heart,
When I think of my friends who are weeping,
	I fain would sweet solace lmpart.

But I realize now as I linger,
	How impotent, feeble and weak
Is the tongue, or the pen of a mortal,
	These desires to write or to speak.

There’s One, and but One who can soothe us,
	Can still these deep throbbings of pain,
He who lovingly loaned us His jewels,
	And expects them returned once again.

He sent them to brighten our pathway,
	As proof of His tenderest love,
He takes them again in His wisdom,
	Perhaps to allure us above.

Now in the deep silence of night-tide,
	My spirit seems wafted away,
And there comes in the path of my vision
	The dawn of a holier day.

When again we shall meet our beloved,
	Renewing life’s sanctified ties;
Uniting and binding forever
	By powers immortal and wise.

God gives as beneficent token
	His love and continuous care;
He knows all our thoughts though unspoken,
	He hears each unuttered prayer.

Ah! now with my senses attuning
	To heaven’s englorified song,
crave in my fervent communing
	God’s blessing of hope to prolong.

All souls to respond to the music—
	Sweet echoes of peace from above,
Pure faith in eternal reunion,
	Through divine and ne’er-failing love.	
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
		FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE.
	This very remarkable woman whose name
appears above, died at her home in London,
August 13, 1910; and although she had lived
to a very great age, her death was rather un-
expected. The dispatches give meagre ac-
counts, but no doubt much will hereafter be
written of her brilliant career in the profes-
sion of nursing.
	Florence Nightingale was born in Flor-
ence, Italy, May 12, 1820, the records say,
yet years ago it was said she was the same

[Column 2]
age as Queen Victoria, who was born in
May, 1819. Her historian says “she was
one of the fortunate of the earth, inheriting
from nature a striking and beautiful talent,
and able to cultivate it under circumstances
the most favorable that could be imagined,
and to exercise it on the grandest scale in
the sight of all mankind.”
	Of her family the facts are not generally
known. “Her father was an English gen-
tleman of an ancient and wealthy Sheffield
family, by name William Edward Shore
her mother a daughter of William Smith
who was for many years a member of Par
liament, where he was particularly distin
guished for his advocacy of the emancipa
tion of the slaves in the British possessions
	“In 1815, her father inherited the estates
of his grand-uncle, Peter Nightingale, on
the conditions expressed in his uncle’s will,
of his assuming the name of Nightingale.”
	The father of Florence, an intelligent man,
guided her studies in the usual branches
and accomplishments of female education,
and she was taught French, German and
Italian, and attained proficiency in the
Latin language and mathematics; she also
became “a respectable performer on the
piano,” and had a general knowledge of
science and an interest in subjects of art,
which is common with girls of intelligent
minds.
	It was noticeable of her as a little girl
that she had the instincts of a true nurse,
and the sympathy that enables one to know
beforehand what is wanted to alleviate pain
and distress.
	It is customary with young ladies of the
English nobility to visit the cottages on the
estate and minister to the wants of the poor,
the infirm, the sick and distressed; and in
this way Miss Nightingale began voluntary
work of mitigating human anguish; but she
was not content with the usual routine, she
visited hospitals in the vicinity and studied
eagerly whatever she could find in their own
library, relating to the treatment of disease
and management of asylums.
	It is an established custom in England
for wealthy people to spend a part of the
year in London. Miss Nightingale took ad-
vantage of her opportunities to visit num-
berless hospitals and asylums of the metrop-
olis—institutions on the grandest scale and
liberally endowed; but many of them a-
bounded in abuses and defects that became
apparent to her; she saw the need of better
nurses, women trained and educated to their
work; there were plenty of admirable and
skillful surgeons frustrated in their work by
the ignorance and obstinate conceit of
nurses; little was it imagined at that time,
that through this young lady the reform of
these institutions was to come about.
	It has been said of Miss Nightingale that
she created the art of nursing of which she
became so proficient a teacher and really a
master of the profession.
	It is said of Miss Nightingale that al-
though she was not strictly beautiful she
was singularly pleasing in expression, and a
slight trim and graceful figure; she enjoyed
society and was much sought after by friends
and acquaintances, but she loved her home

[Column 3]
best of all; and the family connections of
the Nightingales were numerous.
	In 1845 with her parents and sister Pen-
elope, she traveled through Germany, France
and Italy, visiting everywhere hospitals,
infirmaries and asylums and watching close-
ly the modes of treatment practiced. The
family went on into Egypt, where they re-
sided for a considerable time, and where
the gifts of Miss Nightingale were called in-
to requisition for the first time, outside her
own family and dependents, among the sick
Arabs. They extended their journey to the
fartherest cataracts of the Nile. This journey
was of immense value to Miss Nightingale,
it increased her familiarity with languages,
and gave her a knowledge of the world and
of people as well as of her art, all this she
turned to good account.
	While traveling on the continent of Europe
she often met Sisters of Charity and mem-
bers of other Catholic orders serving in hos-
pitals and asylums with fidelity, constancy
and skill; and she looked upon them with
admiration and profound respect. It had
been a dream of her youth that perhaps
sometime there might be a Protestant order
of nurses, a band of holy women devoted to
alleviating the anguish of the sick, and suf-
fering.
	About 1848, Miss Nightingale heard of
something of the kind in Germany. She en-
tered this school of purses and spent six
months acquiring valuable details of the
art; and in the hospital attached to it she
served as one of the regular corps of nurses.
After returning from Germany she was
sought by friends of an asylum in London
which was on the point of failure, owing to
its improper management, to accept the
post of superintendent; and she left her
beautiful home to go and take charge of the
establishment in London; and gave to the
institution her valuable services and a large
part of her income. She restored order to
the hospital, and increased the number of
its friends and improved its arrangements;
she ministered herself at the bedside of sick,
infirm or dying inmates of the institution;
her health gave way and she had to retire,
but she left the institution firmly established
and well regulated.
	But the great time for her talents was at
hand, her knowledge was to be employed on
a grand scale, her country was to reap the
result of her observation and efficiency.
	In February and March 1854—the war
with Russia was on and shiploads of troops
left England for the seat of war. It is said
by historians that there was never such bad
management, lack of foresight and of adapta-
tion of means to ends, want of knowledge of
the climate and of human constitution, in
sending 25,000 British troops to the Black
Sea. The first rendezvous was at Malta, in
easy reach of two continents, yet it was
there privation and trouble began, but when
the troops reached Gallapili, on the coast of
the sea of Marmora, the terrible sufferings
cannot be told: no interpreters, no carts nor
draught animals, no meat, and many of
them had no beds, and not a soldier in the
army had more than the one regulation
blanket; in the middle of April the men be-


[Column 1]
gan to suffer with cold, they did not undress
to lie down, but put on everything they had
and wrapped themselves in anything they
could find. There was a small supply of
blankets but no one authorized to serve
them out.
	It is heartrending, almost, even now, to
read the annals of the war. Every time
the army moved it seemed to get into worse
quarters. The camp at Aladyar, where the
army was posted at the end of June, is a
melancholy example of conditions. It was
ten miles from the sea in a country utterly
deserted, and the only communication was
by heavy carts drawn by buffaloes at the
rate of a mile and a half an hour and by
this kind of transportation 25,000 men and
13,000 horses had to be fed.
	In July the cholera broke out and carried
off officers and men of both armies in large
numbers. July 24, twenty men died in 24
hours. To give any idea of conditions is
most terrible.
	On the 13th of September, 1854, 27,000
British troops were landed on the shores of
the Crimea and marched six miles into the
country, and there was not a tree for shelter,
the French troops who landed on the same
day had shelter tents, but in all the English
host there was but one tent.
	At midnight the rain fell in torrents and
continued all night, penetrating blankets
and overcoats, it beat upon the aged gener-
als, the young dandies, and the private sol-
diers alike, they slept in puddles, ditches
and watercourses, without fire, without
grog or prospect of breakfast, the Duke of
Cambridge himself was no better accomo-
dated. This was the beginning of misery;
on the following day signals were made
from the admiral’s ship for all the vessels of
the great fleet to send the sick men on board
the “Kangaroo.” In the course of the day
the vessel was surrounded by hundreds of
boats filled with sick soldiers and sailors,
crowded to suffocation; before night fifteen
hundred sick were on board and the scene
was so horrible, the details were deemed
unfit for publication. After all the vessel
proved to be unseaworthy and all had to be
transported to other vessels, many deaths
occurred during removal; at the same time
men were dying on the beach without any
medical assistance whatever. When the
hospital was about to be established at
Balaklava, sick men were sent before the
slightest preparation was made, and many
remained in the open streets for hours in
the rain.
	Winter set in with a terrible hurricane,
the army were still in tents and no prepara-
tion had been made to protect the troops
against snow and cold and rain, the hurri-
cane broke upon them on the morning of
November 14, an hour before daylight, the
wind bringing with it torrents of rain, every-
thing was filled with water and every tent
laid prostrate by wind, horses, terrified,
broke loose, and the whole country was
covered with galloping horses. Towards
night a driving storm of snow and sleet set
in, tormenting the army, and this storm
was even more deadly on sea than on shore.
Many a ship stored with things for the army
of which they were in perishing need, went
to the bottom of the Black Sea.
	A letter by Dr. Russell, who was there
with the British army is too dreadful to
read; he uses these Emphatic words: “Never
was there such mismanagement, Balaklava
was a scene of filth and horror;” it is said
[---] letter all the pictures of plague and
pestilence ever drawn fall short of the scenes

[Column 2]
of disease and death which abounded there;
no attention was paid to cleanliness or de-
cency, men died without the least effort be-
ing made to help them. The appalling
sights and scenes baffle all description.
Some of Queen Victoria’s own “Household
Guards,” were going into action at night
without soles to their shoes. Many men
were frozen in their tents and the word hos-
pital only conjured up scenes of horror. It
was not surprising that on the 10th of Feb-
ruary, out of a total of 44,948 British troops
18,177 were in the hospital. When there
were stores there was much trouble over
requisitions, the iron-clad rules of the army;
a house full of needed things and no officer
to serve them out. It is said the surgeons
did their best, but the horror was the neg-
lect of the sick in the hospitals, and a cry
arose for a corps of skillful educated nurses.
	“There was but one woman in England
fitted by character, position and education
to head such a band.” Sidney Herbert, a
member of the British Cabinet, was an old
friend of Florence Nightingale’s father, there-
fore he was well acquainted with her fitness
and training; by a curious coincidence, Miss
Nightingale wrote to him offering her ser-
vices, and he wrote to her asking her aid on
the same day. Other ladies of birth and
fortune volunteered to accompany her and
some superior professional nurses were
added. October 24, 1854, Florence Night-
ingale, accompanied by a clerical friend
and his wife, and a corps of 37 nurses, left
England for the Crimea; they traveled via
France and sailed from Marsailles to Scutari
by steamer, where the principal hospitals
were and reached there November 3. The
town was crowded with misery in every
form; five unoccupied rooms which had been
reserved for officers of high rank were
assigned to the nurses, and at once they en-
tered upon duty; and they were none too
soon; in a few hours wounded men in great
numbers were brought in from Balaklava
and ere long thousands from the bloody
fields of Inkermann. Fortunately a com-
missioner was there to supply Miss Night-
ingale’s first demands. Some days elapsed
before men ceased to die for want of sup-
plies that were in the town, but could not be
obtained when required. One nurse report-
ed that the first night of her attendance
eleven men died before her eyes, whom a
little wine or arrowroot would certainly have
saved. Miss Nightingale saw it was no
time to stand for trifles; the second day
after she arrived six hundred wounded men
were brought in, and the number soon in-
creased to three thousand patients, under
her immediate charge. She was gentle and
tender and issued her orders with a calm-
ness that comes of knowledge of what is
best to be done. If red tape interposed she
quietly cut it. If there was no one to unlock
a storehouse she took a few Turks with her
and stood by while they broke it open. The
first week her labors were arduous beyond
what any one could believe possible; she was
known to stand for twenty hours directing
the work of men and women. However
fatigued she might be, her manner was al-
ways serene, and she had a smile or a com-
passionate word for the suffering as she
passed them.
	As soon as the first needs of the men were
attended to, she established a washing house
which she superintended herself, also a kitch-
en which she herself inspected, where hun-
dreds of gallons of beef tea and other liquid
foods were prepared daily; she knew precise-
ly how these things were done and the best

[Column 3]
apparatus for doing them; out of the rough
material around,, boards, camp kettles,
camp stoves and blundering Turks, she
created laundries and kitchens which an-
swered until better could be provided. She
understood the art of utilizing skillful labor.
When a few nurses could be spared she set
them to preparing surgical appliances for
amputated limbs, etc., so that when a thou-
sand wounded men were brought in, they no
longer sufferred or died for want of some
trifle that had not been got ready.
	“The ‘Times’ correspondent wrote of her,
‘she is a ministering angel in these hospitals
and as her slender form glides along each
corrider, every poor fellow’s face softens with
gratitude at the sight of her. When all the
medical officers have retired for the night,
and silence and darkness have settled down
upon those miles of prostrate sick, she may
be observed alone with a little lamp in her
hand making her solitary rounds.' ”
	The same writer says much more on this
subject from which we only quote a word or
two: “No one who has observed her fragile
figure and delicate health can avoid mis-
givings lest these should fail. With the
heart of a true woman and the manners of a
lady, accomplished and refined beyond most
of her sex, she combines a surprising calm-
ness of judgment and promptitude and de-
cision of character.”
	It seems incredible that these ladies were
far from being welcomed either by the med-
cal or military officers; it required all the
firmness and tact of a Florence Nightingale
to overcome the obstacles that were placed
in her way, and it was weeks before the hos-
pital authorities cordially co-operated with
her. Still more incredible that cruel bigots
in England severely criticised her for accept-
ing the services of Sisters of Charity from
Dublin. They discussed whether she her-
self was a Catholic or a Protestant, a witty
clergyman remarked: “She belongs to a sect
which is a very rare one—the sect of the
Good Samaritans.”
	One of the chaplains who labored with her
Rev. S. G. Osborne in his work on hospitals
in Scutari, describes in the most interesting
manner her appearance and character: “Her
nerve is wonderful, I have been with her at
very severe operations; she was more than
equal to the trial; she has an utter disregard
for contagion. I have known her spend
hours over men dying of cholera or fever.
The more awful any particular case, especial-
ly that of a dying man her slight form would
be seen bending over him, administering
in every way in her power and seldom quitt-
ing his side until death released him. What
wonder that the troops idolized her!
	One of the soldiers said: “She would
speak to one and to another and nod and
smile to as many more; but she c[-]uldn’t do
it to all you know, we lay there by hundreds
but we could kiss her shadow as it fell, and
lay our heads on the pillow with content.
Before she came there was cussin’ and
swearin' and after that it was as holy as a
church.”
	All through that winter she toiled on and
the spring until the middle of May. Then
she was taken down with the camp fever
and for a few days her condition was alarm-
ing, but she passed the crisis, and the whole
army rejoiced to hear that she was conval-
escent. In her little book published after
her return home there are but two allusions
to her services in the Crimea. One is that
she had seen death in more forms than any
other woman in Europe. The other refers
to flowers. “I have seen in fevers, (and


felt when I was a fever patient myself) the
most acute suffering produced from (a pa-
tient in a hut) not being able to see out of
a window, and the knots in the wood being
the only view. I shall never forget the rap-
ture of fever patients over a bunch of bright-
colored flowers. I remember (in my own
case) a nosegay of wild flowers being sent
me and from that moment recovery becom-
ing more rapid."
	Miss Nightingale remained in the Crimea
a year and ten [-]onths; when she was re-
covering a yacht was lent her. Its use aided
much in her recovery, when she first sailed
in it she had to be carried to the vessel in
the arms of men.
	She reached home in safety on the 8th of
September, 1856, an invalid for life. All
England f[-]lt ihat something must be done.
Fifty thousand pounds were raised almost
without an effort, and it was decided to use
this fund in enabling Miss Nightingale to
establish an institution for the training of
nurses, The Nightingale home at St. Thomas.
She accepted the trust and for years em-
ployed much effort in the establishment.
	The Sultan of Turkey sent her a magnifi-
cent bracelet, the Queen of England gave
her a cross beautifully formed and blazing
with gems; the Queen invited her to visit
her in her retreat at Balmoral, and Miss
Nightingale spent some days there receiving
the homage of the royal family.
	Her books on nursing are said to be ad-
mirably simple and admirably wise. The
chief duty of a nurse” she says, “is to keep
the air which the patient breathes as pure as
the external air but without chilling,” and
she dwells forcibly upon the “curative
power of perfect cleanliness and bright
light.”
	When Florence Nightingale overcame the
silent opposition of ancient surgeon[-] and
obstinate old sergeants in the Crimea, she
smoothed the path of American women on
the banks of the Potomac and the Mississ-
ippi.
	Her name and fame stand out as heroic
examples to all women and are imperishably
engraved in the annals of her time. There
can be no correct conception of her persona[-]
life from anything that has been written or
published. It may be now that she has
passed away that memoirs or reminiscences
may be given of the woman who has been a
greater philanthropist and humanitarian
than any woman we know of living or dead.
	In the year 1908 she was accorded the
freedom of the city of London and King Ed-
ward with great pomp and ceremony be-
stowed upon her the “Order of Merit,” the
most exclusive distinction in the gift of the
British Sovereign. No doubt Florence
Nightingale was quite as deserving of this
high honor as any man who had ever received
such an honor.
	Peace to her ashes, the memory of her
beautiful life of sacrifice and devotion will
remain forever sacred in the hearts of all her
sex who appreciate deeds of valor and of
self-sacrifice. E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LAWN PARTY AND BANQUET.
	A most entertaining and enjoyable even-
ing was given by Mrs. Emma H. Jenson
at the home, 154 North 2nd West Street,
on Thursday, July 7th, in honor of Mrs.
Romania B. Penrose, with whom Mr. and
Mrs. Jenson and their daughter Eva traveled
in Europe in company with President A. H.
Lund and wife and daughter Eva, and to
celebrate the arrival of the hostesses in Salt


Lake City twenty-five years ago. Their
luxurious home was most artistically ar-
ranged and decorated with palms, sweet
peas and carnations. Their beautiful lawn
was a source of great enjoyment owing to its
shade and wealth of foliage. An elaborate
dinner was served, covers being laid for
fifty guests. The ornamentations were ex-
ceedingly pretty and delicate. A special
feature of the decoration being a silver cen-
ter piece recently received from Mr. Andrew
Jensen, being a presentation to him by the
L.D. S. choir of Copenhagen, Denmark,
where he is presiding over the Scandinavian
Mission, as a token of love and respect for
all his kindness and zeal. During the re-
past Miss Bessie Smith, accompanied by
Miss Eva H. Jenson, sang several songs in
her pathetic and graceful manner. During
the evening several vocal numbers were
rendered by Mr. Amer Hansen, Mrs. C. V.
Anderson and the inimitable George B.
Margetts. Mrs. E. J. D. Roundy made an
eulogistic tribute to the hospitality and
kindness of the hostesses. All regretted
when the hour of separation arrived and
were unanimous in their expressions of
pleasure at the enjoyable time they had
passed and looked forward to another simi-
lar occasion,and desired that the same com-
pany might be privileged to meet again. 
				MARIA FRANCIS.


[Column 1]
	MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
			(Continued.)
	During the ride to Euston, visions of my
first field of labor vividly rise to mind.
It is nearly a year since then, and I am be-
coming accustomed to my new life, but my
lone ride to my first field of labor, through
forty miles of the county of Kent, the garden
spot of England, will never be forgotten. As
I was about to enter a bus at the “Angel”
for Sittingbourne where I had been assigned,
met one of the sisters who had come over
with us to the Quinquennial Congress lately
closed in London, who was now leaving for
Liverpool en route home. “Are you going
to remain in England a winter?” she asked.
“I shall certainly try hard,” I replied. “I
think you are a fool,” she said. “Think of
what an English winter is, and of your state
of health! You have a good home and sons
and daughters in Zion, come and return
home with us. Why do you not return with
us?” “Because I am sent on a mission and
am going to try my best to fulfill it.”
	Though I felt determined, the sister’s
words cast a little cloud on my spirits.
While waiting at the station for the train, I
looked over some of the papers just received
from home, and read of the death of one of
the members of my theological class in the
Sunday school. “It makes no difference
where we are, I thought now she was home
surrounded by loved ones, yet she had to
go.”
	It is a delightful ride, passing villages,
orchards heavy with fruit, and the roads
and green lanes of England. But the far-
ther I got away from London the worse I
felt, until at length I thought I must turn
the train around and go back, actually ris-
ing to my feet to do it. A voice was speak-
ing to me, you are a fool,” it said, “to un-
dertake this mission. Go home to your
loved ones, you might die here, far away
from them all and they would never forgive
you.” Then I recognized it, I had heard it
before. To my mind came a statement,
made by one of our Apostles just before I

[Column 2]
left Utah. When he arose in the Taber-
nacle on that Sunday to speak. He said a
voice said to him, “Sit down, you know you
cannot say anything of account, you made a
fool of yourself the last time you tried. Sit
down!” He did not sit down but I did,
saying, “I will stay!”
	Now that I had overcome the tempter, I
felt happy, though still wondering who
would meet me and how my letter of ap-
pointment which I held with the address of
the Elders, would be received. The lodg-
ings of the Elders, I found, was not far
away from the station. The loud knock
made by the proverbial iron knocker of Eng-
land was answered by the landlady, who in-
formed Elder Sherwood that some one wished
to see him. When his face, illuminated
with a smile of welcome, appeared at the
head of the stairs, all my misgivings were
dispelled, and I felt happy.
	It was a new life for me, who had always
been used to my own home, where I reigned
as queen over my lovers, my ten children.
I was away from all of them now, and my
widow’s dress reminded me of my condi-
tion. I secured lodgings in a Catholic
home, and when I returned from my day’s
tracting and closed the door of my room, I
was alone. It was a great change, but a
needed one. It was a good cure for nerv-
ous prostration, which had followed my
latest ordeal. I loved the work, and health
slowly returned, despite some untoward con-
ditions I had to meet in the world. The
Elders taught me how to tract; took me
with them to the street meetings, where I
felt I could not speak, and encouraged me,
until, like a little child, I could walk alone.
My daily experiences were always new, often
inspiring, and the love of the Saints and
friends among whom I labored, were precious
to me.
	Home papers and letters came regularly,
and always proved a blessing. So the first
winter passed away.
	One day a young girl whose parents lived
in the same row as one of the Saints, sent
for us to come and administer to her. She
was home on a visit, but was very ill. Lying
there on a little cot the hectic glow on her
cheek, a hacking cough and rapid respira-
tion made her look shockingly ill. It seemed
to be an advanced stage of tuberculosis.
“Pray, sister,” the brother said, and we all
knelt beside her. The spirit of prayer came
upon me and a happiness unspeakable filled
the room after the administration. When I
called next day, behold she was well! and
spoke of going back immediately to her post
of duty. Being urged to rest a little while
she decided to return in two days, which she
did. This marveious case of healing was
the first I had witnessed in the missionary
field. Her parents knew of the Gospel and
spoke well of it to those belonging to the
Church, but did not speak that way to those
not of us, though not speaking ill. The
mother, it is said, stated that “she believed
it was true but could not live it.” Her
younger daughter came often to our meet-
ings with one of the Saints’ little girls.
They were grateful recipients of a wonderful
blessing, yet they never identified them-
selves with the Church. Just before return-
ing home the mother wrote me a letter
wishing me God speed to my loved ones,
and in fervent language acknowledging the
healing of her daughter, and said that the
Gospel was true. About two years after-
wards the daughter married. Sometime af-
ter the birth of her babe she was seized as
before and died.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	AUGUST, 1910.


PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	We are sure the members of the Relief
Society in all the stakes of Zion and through-
out the Church are interested in the beloved
President, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, who
has for so many years been a pillar in Zion,
not only in the Relief Society from its very
inception, but in the temple work from the
early days; and has officiated regularly in
the Salt Lake Temple from its opening in
May, 1893, almost without losing a day.
No woman in the Church has such a record
in temple work; her faithfulness and fidelity
in the callings, whereunto she has been
called and set apart are unquestionable.
	We regret very much that at the present
time she is seriously ill, possibly many of
the brethren and sisters are aware of her
condition, but as far as we know the fact
has not been spoken of in the public press;
but it seems only right t[-]at the Sisters
should know that she is not able to fill the
position in the temple that it has been such
a great pleasure and satisfaction for her to
occupy.
	Certainly those who minister there will
miss seeing her in the accustomed place,
but at present she is not strong enough, and
must be kept quiet and rest until her health
and strength are restored. The summer has
been trying and it would not be expected
she could recuperate much until it is cool-
er weather.
	She has been most tenderly cared for by
her daughter, who for six weeks was with
her day and night, until she was obliged to
take a rest. Her grand-daughters wait upon
her in the most careful and thoughtful way
and spare no pains to give her sympathy
and attention in the fullest measure possible.
More could not be done than the nursing
she is receiving. For the most of us, who
love her so dearly, and would gladly wait
upon her, we can only pray that all will be
well, and we have the confident assurance
that she has every need and longing antici-
pated and supplied without an effort on her
part. She is watched over day and night,
and all that love and tender nursing can do
is being done in the wisest and tenderest
way, and her sisters and friends may rest
satisfied that everything possible for her
comfort and happiness is assured.
	President John Henry Smith visits her al-
most daily and this is very gratifying to her,
and to all her friends.


[Column 1]
ARE THE WATCHMEN ON THE TOWERS?
	The world is rushing on rapidly in many
ways—progression seems to be the greatest
aim of the people of this wonderful age;
assuredly this is significant of a laudable
ambition to excel and to make many im-
provements in this line of endeavor and
there must necessarily be inventions and
discoveries in the earth and on the earth
until one might say, “knowledge will cover
the earth as the waters cover the mighty
deep;” but unless there is wisdom and faith
in God the greatest and highest of all at-
tainments in that which tends to growth
and advancement in intelligence, science
and philosophy of things seen and unseen,
in wielding power and developing skill and
in the application of the elements that re-
quire the most careful and constant atten-
tion, those which move upward to the great-
est height possible for mortals to reach—will
there be real and lasting benefits? or will it
not all become as “Dead Sea Apples,” hav-
ing within the seeds or the tendency to its
own destruction.
	Is it not true that along with the great
advancement being made in this last cen-
tury many have become proud and haughty
and neglectful of the highest good of man-
kind? Is there not in many instances a
lack of consideration for others, those who
are entitled to benefits and to the results of
achievements?
	In days of old the ancient prophets some-
times called a halt, they were even com-
manded of the Lord to do so, among the
people of Israel.
	Are the people of these times more capa-
ble because of their greater knowledge than
were those who were taught by divine auth-
ority, and lived a more simple life? they cul-
tivated the soil and pastured their flocks and
herds, and the fashions of the world and the
etiquette of society did not trouble them, as
it does the people of today.
	It is well sometimes to pause and con-
sider and question one’s self concerning the
signs of the times!
	It is a momentous time in which we of
today are living; the Latter-day Saints are
well aware of that fact and it behooves them
to be moderate, and avoid the excesses and
dangers that seem at the present to prevail
to such a large extent and are so fascinating
and so bewildering as to deceive and lead to
wrongdoing almost or quite without one’s
being aware of the unhappy if not terrible
results that might and do accrue, although,
perchance, not always follow the careless
and indifferent, who are not in the exact line
of duty and rectitude.
	We are fully aware that it is commonly
said that these things have always existed,
and they always will; and that too may be
partly true, but not quite, for there never
has been the powerful influences of evil to
cope with existing to such an alarming ex-
tent as in the present. People never had
the facilities to accomplish wickedness that
they have now; the rapid modes of transit
and travel, and the knowledge of arts and
sciences innumerable in the hands of wicked
and designing men and women all help to
serve evil purposes if deceitfully manipu-
lated.
	The Latter-day Saints have been warned
by revelation long ago through the Prophet
Joseph Smith and his successors, concerning
the very things that are transpiring and that
encompass us about here and now in our
mountain homes and retreats. We must
not be blind to the facts, but use every en-

[Column 2]
deavor within our power to keep the children
of the rising generation from being led astray;
double our diligence, safeguard every avenue
that is open to indulgences that tend down-
ward to darkness, keep in the narrow way,
walk in the light of truth, preach virtue
and righteousness and right living.
	It is easy to deceive and mislead the in-
nocent and unwary, let parents be warned
in time—there are many wolves in sheep’s
clothing. And many paths by which they
stray, these fair deceitful treacherous wolves
who put on not only sheep’s clothing but
fine and costly apparel and tempt in a thou-
sand ways the confiding and pure-minded
youth of Zion.
	Is there anything that can be done that
has not been tried, if there is by all means
seek to find out and wait not, lest those who
have it in their power to ward off evil be
held accountable for the sin and wickedness
that prevails, and is seemingly running riot
here in our fair cities, where we were wont
to think all was peace and purity and no
harm, or even great temptation to wrong
could ever have power or gain a foothold.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	It is very desirable that the minutes of
conferences, especially the annual confer-
ences of the Relief Society in the several
stakes of Zion, be sent to the General Secre-
tary, of late very few have been received. It
is impossible to keep in touch with the
work being done unless the minutes are at
hand to refer to. Changes are made in
stake officers, and even new presidents of
stakes appointed and the President and
Executive Board only learn of it incident-
ally. Send the minutes of conferences to
the Secretary at the headquarters of the
Relief Society, Bishop's Building, No. 40,
N. Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Please send at once the minutes of the con-
ferences held since the April Conference of
the Relief Society. Do not think because
the minutes cannot all be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT that it is not essential,
they are all history and the General Secre-
tary should know the history of the Society
to keep up the record of the Society as a
whole. This notice refers also to missions
abroad as well as at home. Where confer-
ences of the Relief Society are held in other
languages, there is generally some one who
could translate and make a short report,
which has been done occasionally in years
past. The history of this Society cannot be
complete or correct without such minutes
and data as has been requested now and
heretofore.
	The sketch of Florence Nightingale pub-
lished in this number of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT has been written almost purposely
for the nurses who are studying or have
graduated. We commend it to them and
to all who are interested in humanitarian-
ism, and it should appeal to those who
favor peace and arbitration for the world at
large. In our own country we have Clara
Barton of the Red Cross who is still living,
and we have had a number of women who
rendered valuable service in the civil war,
notably Mary A. Livermore, now deceased,
and Dr. Mary F. Thomas who is we think
still living, and others whose names would
fill our pages with deeds of kindness for the
suffering, without remuneration. And here
it is not amiss to say that in the Relief So-
ciety, among the officers and teachers there


are some of the bravest acts of charity done
in the most beautiful and modest way that
could be imagined, but the angels know,
and even though “the right hand knoweth
not what the left hand doeth,” these acts
of self-sacrifice are recorded, and yet we
who know of these things should not fail to
recognize these “Good Samaritans,” who
carry about with them the spirit of humility,
and give consolation to the mourner and
comfort to the aching heart. We hope this
brief sketch of Florence Nightingale will be
read in the Relief Society and in the Young
Ladies’ Association meetings.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Ogden Stake of
Zion held its quarterly conference in the
Relief Society Hall, at Ogden, Utah, July
19, 1910. This stake being an offshoot of
the Weber Stake, the day designated and
set apart for the conference is of more than
usual significance to the sisters, it being in
honor of the day thirty-three years ago that
President Brigham Young inaugurated the
quarterly conferences and organized the sis-
ters into a stake capacity, Weber Stake be-
ing the first to be thus organized, with our
venerable, time-honored ex-president, Sister
Jane S. Richards, as its president.
	The morning session convened at 10 a. m.
Stake President Sarah M. Taylor presided
and conducted the exercises.
	On the stand were members of the Gen-
eral Relief Society Board, Phoebe Y. Beattie
and Annie K. Hardy, President Charles C.
Richards of the Stake Presidency. Councilor
Christian J. Jensen of the High Council,the
Stake Presidency of the Relief Society, with
their Board, and the local officers.
	After the usual opening exercises,remarks
with a brief history of Weber County Relief
Society from 1877 to its division, and to
the present time of the Ogden Stake, was
given by Sister Nellie Becraft.
	C. J. Jensen of the High Council followed
his subject being “The Keynote to Unity in
the Home.” His words were fraught with
wisdom and he proved most emphatically
that Love is the Keynote; first, love to God
and then to each other, the spirit of service
always being foremost in father, mother
and ohildren. He pictured vividly the
happy home where unity reigned and the
home where discord is found, urging the
former with all the benefits accruing and
especially with a view of making our homes 
ideal for the salvation of our boys and
girls.
	General Board member Annie K. Hardy
spoke on obedience of children. Brother
Jensen struck a responsive chord in her
heart. We teach our children but we fail
to train them. This was Eli’s mistake and
the Lord was not pleased with him, as the
Lord told the boy Samuel. George Wash-
ington’s success was due largely to his-
mother’s early training in obedience. The
Prophet said the sisters should be the
guardians of the home. She pleaded for
wiser motherhood and showed how it might
be attained.
	President Charles C. Richards asked those
of the sisters who were present at the meet-
ing in 1877 to raise their hands—fifteen sis-
ters were present and heard the remarks of
President Brigham Young, some of which
he then alluded to; he referred to the ill-

[Column 2]
ness of his aged mother as being the reason
of her absence on this occasion. He prayed
that the sisters might have strength for
their labors and that in blessing others they
might be blessed.
	After closing remarks by President Tay-
lor the congregation sang, the benediction
and a social hour was spent, during which
time a luncheon was served to all present.
	At 2 p. m. the meeting was again called
to order.
	President Thomas B. Evans of the stake
presidency was an additional visitor, as also
Sister Janette M. Morrell, formerly Stake
President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	General Relief Society Board member
Sister Pheobe Y. Beattie was the first speak-
er, she paid a sweet tribute to the labors of
Sister Jane S. Richards, her mother’s friend
and co-laborer for so many years; she re-
ferred to the meeting held thirty-three years
ago and of the many illustrious brethren
and sisters who were present on that occa-
sion, among ihem, said she, being our own 
dear Aunt Em Wells, of whom it may truth-
fully be said: “She has been the teacher of
the Relief Society.” Outside ladies accord
her the honor of being the moving power
of much that has been done for the benefit
of her sex in these parts. She referred to
some of the deplorable conditions existing
among us today and showing that the blame
is largely on the parents. She read from
the Doctrine and Covenants, section 68 and
urged the early training of the child.
	General Relief Society Board member
Annie K. Hardy referred to the silent labors
of the great army of Relief Society workers
who are accomplishing to the best of their
ability. There is much to be done; a wave
of wickedness is sweeping over us. Our
teachings of today have been rather of pre-
vention; let us give heed to them and see
to it that we do our work wisely and well.
	Sister Janette W. Morrell gave a most ex-
cellent talk on the subject “A Message to
Woman,” showing the trend of the times
and the great need of the Latter-day Saint
women rising to the situation, with a deter-
mination to hold motherhood as the highest
mission given to woman and not to become
entangled with the many allurements
thrown in their path. Showed what home
must be if we are going to hold the child.
	President Thomas B. Evans said we are
truly favored by being taught such things as
we have heard; but how much better shall
we be unless we live them? We assume
much when we fail to put the word of the
Lord to the test. President Smith has said
that there is enough within the pale of the
Church to keep every sister busy without
clubs, etc. Nothing fires one so much as
high ideals, and these may be cultivated.
How shall we feel when we stand before
God if we have failed in our duties as fathers
and mothers.
	After closing remarks by sisters Sarah M.
Taylor and Isabel Foulger of the Stake Pres-
idency of the Relief Society the congregation
sang the parting hymn and the benediction
was pronounced by Sister Sarah A. Tribe.
	The visiting sistere were truly filled with
the spirit of their calling and we feel that
their influence and teachings will be prolific
of good.
	The spirit of the conference was such that
all felt inspired to greater effort and higher
ideals.
				NELLIE BECRAFT, Sec.


OUT-DOOR MEETINGS.
A NEW EFFORT.
	Ever since the Mothers’ Work has been
introduced into the Relief Society of the
Parowan Stake we have had excellent meet-
ings in most of the wards, and Relief So-
ciety work has become better known and
appreciated—the one regret has been gen-
eral with the officers that so few of the
young mothers took advantage of the good
things specially prepared for them, so after
much thought it was suggested that we try
a few meetings during the warm weather on
the lawns of the sisters who could accommo-
date a gathering of the kind. The teachers
visited every home inviting all to meet at
the home of Bishop Jones, a number of our
lectures best suited for young mothers were
reviewed, and discussed; some time was
devoted to testimonies, etc. At the close
the local officers supplied all present with
cake and lemonade. Of a membership of
about 50, 42 were present, a loving sisterly
spirit prompted every word and act and the
sentiment expressed by all was that our
meeting was one of the best ever.
	The Eas[-] ward had a similar meeting the
same day, with an attendance of 35, and
were equally blessed in their efforts. Next
month the West ward will meet on the lawn
of our president, Sister Amy Leigh, and we
hope by our methods to be able to give the
young mothers such an insight into our
work, that they will feel it a real necessity
for them to become punctual attendants,
that their life’s work may be lighter and
more satisfactory.
	If this little report can be suggestive to
any of the Relief Society workers we will be
glad and would also be pleased to learn of
other means, that have been successful in
achieving the great result we are all aiming
for.
E. CRANE WATSON.
Cedar City, Utah.


A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF EUNICE
		BILLINGS SNOW.
	I was born January 3, 1830 in the town
of Mentor, Ohio. My parents’ names were
Titus Billings and Diantha Morley Billings.
My mother was a sister of patriarch Isaac
Morley, one of the first patriarchs in the
church. My father and mother were born
in Massachusetts. I do not remember the
year they were born. My father always kept
a record, but in moving around it became
destroyed and I cannot remember dates.
My father was seventy-two when he died
and my mother was eighty-four when she
died.
	I was born the year the Church was or-
ganized and when I was two years old, 1832,
my parents joined the Church of Jesus
Christ sf Latter-day Saints. I was baptized
when I was eight years old, and I have nev-
er known or tried to know any other reli-
gion. I am perfectly satisfied with Mor-
monism. I have had so many testimonies
of the truth of this glorious gospel, I could
not enumerate them if I were to try.
	The names of my father’s parents were
Samuel and Esther Billings. The names
of my mother’s parents were Thomas Mor-
ley and Editha Marsh Morley.
	Before I was four years old, my parents
moved to Jackson County, Missouri, on ac-
count of their love and interest in the gos-
pel. They wished to be where they could
hear and partake of the benefits of their
religion.


[Column 1]
	I can remember when I was four years
old of hearing my older brother exclaiming
about the stars falling from heaven, and my
mother saying, “Praise God, the Lord is
merciful to us.”
	About this time great persecution began
against the saints, and I remember seeing
the flames when my uncle Isaac Morley’s
cooper shop was burning, having been set
on fire by the mob. I shall never forget the
sight of those flames, I remember hearing
my mother tell of the persecutions of the
Prophet Joseph and Edward Partridge. My
mother said that the wives of these two men
were lamenting to her that their husbands
had been tarred and feathered and sent
home to them to be cleaned.
	Our house was threatened to be burned,
and my father was at that time guarding
the Prophet, and my mother took three of
her youngest children, I among the number
to Calvin Beebe’s house. He was too old
to serve as a guard, and while going there,
my mother, fearing to take the highway,
dragged us as speedily as possible through
the brush and over the stones. Once com-
ing to the crossroads, and having a lantern
hidden under her apron, she was frightened
nearly to death by seeing the flash of a
sword in her face, held by a man behind a
large tree. He was guarding the cross road.
His name was Morgan Gardner, and he im-
mediately reassured her by stating that he
was a friend and not an enemy. My limbs
were torn and bleeding when we reached the
Beebe house, where we found about twenty-
five or thirty more women and children as-
sembled, I remember well how my limbs
bled and how I dared not murmur, or make
a sound for fear of arousing our enemies.
	We were soon put to bed and the women
remained on guard through the night. My
mother told me that during the night, the
women took turns for two hours each, in
putting on the old gentleman’s clothes, and
walking the dooryard with a gun on their
shoulder and keeping guard. Once a white
horse that was browsing in the door-yard
was shot and killed by the enemy. They
probably presumed that it was a person to
whom they were hostile. These events hap-
pened during the persecution in Jackson
County.
	When I was five years old, my parents
moved to Clay County, Missouri, and there
we were all taken sick with chills and fever.
There was no one left to wait on another
and my mother had to wait on herself and
the rest of the family including my father.
During the period when my father was not
suffering with the chills, which occurred
every third day, he succeeded in raising a
crop of corn for bread. About this time
when my youngest brother was nine months
old, we were all separated. My father,
mother and baby boy were taken to Bishop
Edward Partridge’s home to be taken care
of on account of sickness. Our family was
brought together after awhile and we moved
to Far West. I remember seeing the Proph-
et here for the first time. He was taken
prisoner in this place and the brethren all
gave up their arms to the mob. My father
was in the battle of Crooked River and stood
between David Patten and William Hen-
dricks. He saw David Patten mortally
wounded and William Hendricks shot
through the neck, (he lived to come to Utah
but afterwards died from the effects of the
wound). The bullets were flying in every
direction, but my father had no fear until
he saw David Patten fall, then he stepped
behind a tree until the enemy had ceased

[Column 2]
firing, The number of the saints seemed to
be multiplied by divine power, and the
enemy thinking the number was greater
than it really was, fled, leaving their horses
and equipment behind them, of these the
brethren took possession. My father ob-
tained a beautiful mare and saddle, and I
remember hearing hfm say that she was a
fine animal. Having no feed for her, he
hitched her in the hazel brush back of the
house for the night, but during that same
night he was called away. It happened in
this way. On his return from the battle, in
which A. O. Smoot was also, and where my
father had had no sleep nor rest for five days
and nights, being very much exhausted, he
told my mother that he wanted to sleep for
two hours and requested that she bathe his
feet and put clean stockings on them while
he slept. But before he had slept an hour
he was suddenly aroused by a call from
Hosea Stout, who had been in the battle,
stating that he must get right up and flee
within two hours. They feared that the
enemy would pursue them on account of
the taking of the horses. My mother hastily
prepared whatever food she could in the
short time and he left with the rest of the
party. As we afterwards learned, they
reached Lima, Illinois, after suffering con-
siderable hardship. My father had his feet
frozen and the only food that was left after
their short rations gave out, was slippery
elm bark for themselves and horses for three
days and nights. The first news that my
mother had after he left, was a slip of paper
posted somewhere on the road, stating that
he was well, but on account of conditions
at the post-office at Far West, the post-
master, W. W. Phelps being an apostate, it
was necessary that their names be changed
in order to correspond, and he took the
name Titus Skinner and she was to be
Diantha Skinner, and so they corresponded.
We suffered very much that winter, I re-
member how cold it was, as our house was
open and not finished, the fireplace especi-
ally, having no hearthstone, and we had to
get elose to it to keep warm. We often
lacked for food. During the following spring
Benjamin Slade took my mother and her
children to Quincy, Illinois where we met
my father. I remember this trip very well.
We traveled with my father to Lima, where
he visited with his friends who had taken
care of him when his feet were frozen, and
after remaining there one winter we contin-
ued our journey to Nauvoo, which we reached
in 1841.
	I remember the temple built on the hill.
The Prophet’s house was located on the
flats near the Mississippi River, while our
house was situated in the northeast part of
the city, close to brother Heber C. Kimball’s.
I went to school with the Prophet Joseph’s
children. The schoolhouse consisted of one
room, containing about thirty children, and
taught by Sister Eliza Roxey Snow. I went
with my mother to visit the Prophet’s fath-
er, Joseph, Sr., when he was on his death-
bed. He looked so peaceful and heavenly
that I have never forgotten his appearance.
I remember the Prophet’s son Joseph. He
was a quiet, studious boy. I have slight re-
collection of Frederick and Alexander. There
was an adopted daughter in the family
named Murdock, but who was generally
called Julia Smith. She was a constant
companion of mine and for that reason I
often visited the Prophet’s home, eating
there and spending many nights at a time
with the adopted daughter. This young
lady was not aware of the fact that she had

[Column 3]
been adopted until some one told her, and
it nearly broke her heart. Emma Hale
Smith had been very particular to keep the
fact a secret, and had warned many people
not to mention it to the child, but the se-
cret came out at last; however, she appeared
after awhile not to be very much affected.
	Emma Hale taught her to look upon her
as a mother, this she had always done, and
Emma’s love for her continued. She was
proud to be the daughter of the Prophet.
	In one of the reception rooms there were
three mummies, two men and one woman,
and it was of great interest to us to view
them, although they gave me a very strange
feeling of awe at times.
	During the times of the persecution of the
Prophet, especially when he was in hiding,
he would sometimes be allowed to visit his
family for an evening and during that time he
would request my father and mother to come
to sing for him. They would take me with
them and when Joseph found that I could
sing a part alone he requested them to bring
me. We would sing his favorite hymns,
“When Joseph His Brethren Beheld,” “Re-
deemer of Israel,” “The Spirit of God,” and
several others. He would have me sit close
to him and laying his hands on my head
would say, “My little sister, you will be able
to sing the songs of Zion as long as you de-
sire.” He has also blessed me on different
occasions and he would become so inspired
with the spirit of the music that he would
clap his hands and shout hosanna to the
Lord.
	I was always very much affected by the
spirit which he manifested. At first I did
not know what it was, but my mother told
me it was the power which Joseph pos-
sessed.
	My mother sometimes did knitting for
Emma Hale and one time when I took
some work home, I was ushered directly
into Emma’s bed room, when some person
jumped behind the door. Emma called to
him, it being the Prophet, and said, “Do
not be afraid, it is Mrs. Billings’ young
daughter.”
	It was the time of a raid, and when Jos-
eph appeared from behind the door, he put
his hand on my head and remarked, “God
bless you, you won’t tell where I am, will
you?” I replied, “No, sir, I will not.” I
would have suffered any punishment before
I would have told where he was. It made
me feel so strange at the time when he put
his hand on my head, and again I asked
my mother why it was, and she said it was
the power which he possessed.
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE
	To Sister Celia E. Hunt Bean, who was called
home, May last 1910.
	I first met her as a young girl, many years ago
just budding into womanhood.
	She was modest, gentle, rather timid and shy at
times, yet, one could not fail to perceive on first
aquaintance, the unusual personality, the true
genuineness of soul and superiority of mind she
possessed.
	We were schoolmates, personal friends for a
number of years, and my being her senior, she
often came to me for advice. Along religious and
literary lines she excelled.
	She was descended from an excellent family, on
both her father and mother's lines.
	The dear old grandmother, Celia Hunt, (for
whom she was named) wife of Captain Jefferson
Hunt, of Mormon Battalion fame, told me thirty-
six years ago. that she was "first cousin to the
gallant General Montgomery, who fell at the bat-
tle of Quebec, early in the Revolutionary war."
	In Celia's family circle she was a leader, re-


fined, cultured, spiritual in temperament, she
ever wielded an influence for the uplifting the
moral strength of her home. As wife and mother
she was self-sacrificing and untiring in her labors
of love and devotion.
	In the communities which were fortunate in
claiming her as a citizen, all have felt her kindly
help and generous aid i[-] their time of sorrow or
necessity. Firm in her religious convictions, she
never wavered in her trust in God.
	We will all miss her magnetic presence, her
honorable, upright character, her gentle woman-
liness, the grace and loveliness of her life, but to
her husband, her children, her immediate family
associates, her loss is irreparable. May God's
mercy, His love, His care, guidance and protec-
tion be over and with them all the time, is my
faithful, my earnest prayer.
JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.
August 1, 1910.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	Died at Cannonville, Utah, July 6, 1910, Mrs.
Lydia Ann Johnson, beloved wife of Seth Johnson
Sr. She was the daughter of the late Thomas P.
Smith, and his wife Mary Aagard, and was born
Feb. 17, 1847, at Worcester, England, came to
Utah in the early fifties with her parents. Her
mother died when she was eight years old. She
was married to Seth Johnson Nov. 11, 1861, and
was the mother of fourteen children, thirteen of
whom survive her, seven sons and six daughters.
Her love for her family knew no bounds and self-
ishness had no place in her heart. She was pres-
ident of ward Relief Society for 20 years and in
that labor won the greatest love from her associ-
ates. She was a nurse among the sick for years
and acted as teacher in Sunday School and presi-
dent of Primary Association. and was faithful in
all her labors.
S. JOHNSON, SR.


OBITUARY.
	In memory of Jennie Dixon Hickman, of Hinck-
ley, Utah, who was called home May 23, 1910.
	Sister Hickman was born in Payson, Utah, Feb-
ruary 24, 1879. She was the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. John H, Dixon of Payson. She was
married to F. Leslie Hickman in the Salt Lake
Temple, June 19, 1906.
	Since her marriage she has lived in Hinckley
and has won the love and admiration of the en-
tire community, She was in every respect an
ideal woman so pure, so gentle and kind, so tal-
ented and cultured—she was always on hand to
perform any task assigned to her. In her faith-
ful work as a member and teacher in the Hinck-
ley Relief Society, she was never found wanting.
	She leaves a husband and two little children,
also a multitude of friends to mourn her loss.
	The officers of the Hinckley Relief Society offer
the following
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, after a painful illness, our beloved
sister, Jennie Dixon Hickman, has been called to
the "other side", be it resolved that we, the Sis-
ters of the Hinckley Relief Society do sincerly sym-
pathize with the grief-stricken family, and we
mourn for one who was one of earth's choicest
spirits—a model for us all.
	Resolved that in her death we recognize and feel
keenly the loss of a true saint and faithful worker,
aud we are proud to have had her association and
example and we are sure that she will receive the
crown of one of the noblest daughters of Zion.
Farewell, dear, but not forever—
There will be a glorious dawn;
We shall meet to part, no, never!
On the resurrection morn.
'Tho thy darling form lies sleeping
In the cold and silent tomb,
Thou shalt have a glorious waking
When the blessed Lord doth come.
	Resolved that the resolutions be placed on the
record of the Relief Society and a copy be sent to
the bereaved family.
Phoebe Hale Mecham, Pres.
Catherine A, Allred, Sec.


UNIVERSAL MUNICIPAL SUFFRAGE FOR
		WOMEN IN NORWAY.
	On June 7th the King of Norway gave
the royal assent to the bill for con-
ferring universal municipal suffrage on
women. The bill was sent up from


the Lagting to the Odelsting, and passed
by that chamber on May 27th by
twenty-four votes to seven. The Liberal
Minister, M. Arctander, had advised the
King to use his veto against the bill, and
as his advice was not taken by the sovereign,
and not approved by his colleagues in the
government, M. Arctander resigned. “He
is, perhaps,” says a writer from Christiania,
in Jus Suffragii, “the first member of a
king’s cabinet to resign his officc because
he was against victorious woman suffrage,
The event is the more important because
M. Arctander is one of our best known and
ablest statesmen, and today his career has
probably ended for ever.” The writer, who
is a man, adds: “The fall of Arctander is
the most striking example of the power that
the women’s claim for justice has won in
the minds of Norwegian men.”

THE WOMEN’S CHARTER IN HOLLAND.
	The Dutch Women’s Suffrage Association
has prepared a comprehensive statement of
the laws which place women at a disadvant-
age, socially, legally, morally, and has
formulated a demand for the vote. Advant-
age was taken of the Queen’s annual visit to
the capital to pray for an audience. A
deputation was graciously received by her
majesty. A petition similar to that pre-
sented to the Queen was sent to the second
chamber and the principal newspapers.

THE BRUSSELS CONGRESS.
	Miss Martina G. Kramers, editor of Jus
Suffragii, represented the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance at the World’s
Congress of International Associations held
at Brussells on May 9, 10, and 11, 1910.
During the sectional meetings, Miss Kram-
ers got a woman placed on one of the sec-
tional boards, and called attention to the
rights of mothers, married women, and self-
supporting women as a topic for discussion
in societies working for international juris-
prudence. A resolution was drafted.
					EMILY HILL.
	P. S.—The bill, after a striking debate,
passed the second reading by a majority of
109 on July 12. It was then referred to a
committee of the whole house by a majority
of 145.—English Woman’s Review, London.


A GREAT DEMONSTRATION.
	The greatest demonstration of suffragists
in the history of the world was made in Lon-
don on the afternoon of July 23. Half a
million women marched in a street parade,
cheering and waving flags, to the historic
place in Hyde Park, to protest against the
action of the government in shelving the
Shackleton bill granting the ballot to wo-
men.
	Mrs. M. Drummond, on horseback, com
manded the procession. The women
tramped to the music of forty bands. A
feature of the procession was a body of 617
women who had suffered imprisonment for
the sake of suffrage.
	The Rev. Dr. Anna Shaw of New York
commanded a group of Americans who
marched under the Stars and Stripes. This
group had the place of honor among the
foreign delegations. Among the American
women in the parade were Miss Dorre of
Chicago, Mary Fisk of Detroit, Mrs. Chapin
and her daughter Elsie of Boston, Mabel
Willard of Boston, Miss Hart of Wellesley


College, Miss Inez Milholland of New York,
Dr. Martin of Stanford University, and Alice
Davis of New York.
	Four American women carried blue ban-
ners inscribed ‘Women Vote in Utah, Col-
orado, Wyoming and Idaho.” Dr. Martin,
the Rev. Anna Shaw and Miss Hart of
Wellesley wore their academic robes. It
had been announced that Mrs. O. H. P.
Belmont would march side by side with the
Rev. Anna Shaw, but she was detained in
Paris and was unable to join in the demon-
stration.
	A band of Irish women pipers played in-
cessantly, and the weird strains of their in-
struments at times rose up and deadened
the tumult of shouts and screams. A
squadron of Irish women attired in green
dresses followed the pipers. There were
drum corps and fife corps made up of wo-
men. There was also a regiment of suffra-
gist cavalry which brought up the rear
guard.—Boston Woman’s Journal.


VISIT ABROAD.
	The visit of President Joseph F. Smith
and Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley and
party to Europe has been fraught with great
interest to the Saints in foreign lands. The
greatest conference perhaps ever held out-
side of the United States was the one con-
vened in the Netherlands, at Rotterdam,
Holland, July 24th, 1910, at which Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and Bishop C. W.
Nibley were present, also President Rudger
Clawson, and addressed the large congre-
gation. The newspaper accounts given
speak in the highest terms of praise of the
discourses delivered and the spirit of the
gatherings; one hundred and fifty Elders
were present, and it is estimated that there
were fifteen hundred persons in all at the
Sunday evening meeting. It would seem
that a very great work is being done in that
land.
	In Scandinavia the work has always made
great progress and many honest souls have
been converted and come to America for
the Gospel’s sake. President Smith and
party visited the large cities in Sweden,
Norway and Denmark, and word received
from President Andrew Jenson gives glow-
ing accounts of the reception of the party
in those countries and the joyful gatherings,
meetings and honors accorded to the
visitors.
	From the northern countries of Europe
President Smith and party will likely visit
Germany and some of the larger towns and
cities in the German Empire, and surely
will see Paris before returning; whether they
will be able to go to Switzerland and all the
British Isles is doubtful.
	The ocean voyage and journey will, it is
ardently hoped, be beneficial to the Presi-
dent’s health, and his visit abroad has cer-
tainly afforded him the satisfaction of giv-
ing pleasure to the Saints who love him,
and it may be there are some of the older
people who would never have been able to
come to Zion, who will have enjoyed the
gratification of meeting and greeting the
Prophet, Seer and Revelator of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints.
	That the Lord will bless him while absent
and bring him home to Utah in good health
and in peace and safety, having accom-
plished for the latter-day work what he de-
sired to do is the earnest wish of all those
who are interested in the welfare of Zion.
						E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FAVORITE SONGSTRESS.
	The evening, Friday, July 1, 1910, a de-
lightful reception was tendered to some of
the relatives and dear friends of Miss Emma
Lucy Gates after her home coming, in the
Social Hall, in this city. The affair was in
the hands of a committee but was tendered
to her by her father and mother, Brother
and Sister Jacob F. Gates. It was a very
pleasant informal gathering and quite dis-
tinctive from social parties generally. The
guest of honor (for such she really was) met
the guests with a simplicity of manner and
cordial greeting that one rarely finds in
young men and women, who have studied
and traveled abroad and received great ap-
plause and adulation from appreciative
audiences and whose names and fame have
been heralded abroad in the public press.
	Miss Gates evidently loves her mountain
home and her native country. She is full
of the enthusiasm of her vocation and de-
termined to attain to the greatest possible
excellence in the musical world for which
she is studying, and is even now taking part
in the Royal Opera at Berlin.
	The Social Hall is a favorite place for fes-
tivities, and this occasion was no exception;
a sweet, gentle spirit pervaded the party,
and the hours flew swiftly by. After the
formal greetings prayer was offered and
Clive’s band played the choicest pieces of
music. Elder Jacob Gates came forward
and made an address of welcome, explain-
ing the nature of the entertainment and why
it was given, Miss Gates only had a brief
leave of absence from the Royal Opera Com-
pany at Berlin where she was playing, and
it meant so much to her to visit her home
and see a number of her people, and so on.
	Later on Miss Gates herself made a brief
statement and gave the company a warm
welcome, and then in her dainty fashion
sang two of the sweetest characteristic songs
that touched every heart.
		Sing aweet bird, etc.
		Shells of the ocean.
“O, how delightful, O how entrancing.”

	These songs, familiar in days gone by
and sung by sweet singers who are now no
more, and we thought it most kind of her to
sing in her pathetic but wonderful rich voice
full of sweetness and exquisite melody “the
dear old songs.”
	There was dancing by the younger set
who seemed to thoroughly enter into the
spirit of merriment, and yet at the close a
tinge of sadness that perhaps it would be
long years before they met again, remem-
bering the words of the poet:
“It may be for years and it may be for ever.”
	During the party light refreshments were
served in the dining room below.
	Miss Gates left the city soon after to rest
and rusticate in the canyon a day or two
after the party, and while at Brighton gave
a fine concert. Since then she has sailed
for Europe to resume her studies in Berlin.
	Miss Gates has a brilliant career open be-
fore her, and her friends at home are look-
ing forward to the future with “great expec-
tations” of her standing at the head of the
musical profession, in culture and develop-
ment of the human voice. May this sweet
singer attain to the highest expression of
this divine art in the songs of Zion. E.B.W.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Mildred Jones, a pretty and suc-
cessful young school teacher of Tulsa, Ok.,
is the Republican candidate for superin-
tendent of schools in Tulsa county, and is


[Column 1]

making a strong campaign. Opponents of
Miss Jones are advancing the argument that
she is too young for the place, but she is
answering, as did Abraham Lincoln when
the same thing was said about him in the
early days of his career: "I'll outgrow it in
time."
	At Hastings-on-Hudson, New York, re-
cently the women voted, regardless of their
previous attitude on the question of suffrage. 
	Under an old village ordinance women
property owners are entitled to vote in elec-
tions where appropriations are to be author-
ized. Hitherto the privilege has never been
exercised, but when the project to vote
money for sewers, street improvements and
school buildings was to be decided, the wo-
men turned out in force. So well did they
work and vote that every proposal was
carried, and some $300,000 will be expend-
ed for needed improvements. 
	The most approved election methods were
utilized by the women. Automobiles and
carriages took them to the polls and a wo-
man at the booths instructed each voter
carefully how to cast her ballot.—Ex.

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe testified recently
before the Massachusetts legislative com-
mittee which is investigating the milk
question. Her steps were uncertain as she
entered the large hearing room, but she de-
clined a chair offered by the committee. 
Standing at the end of the witness table,
honored by an exemption from the oath
which is administered to all other witnesses
she entered her plea for pure milk. It was
a plea largely in behalf of the children. “It
seems to me a most important object,” she
said, "which commends itself to all good
citizens. It is a matter of life and death. 
There is no substitute for milk in the rear-
ing of children. There are several parties
to the situation, and I think the principal
party is the child in the cradle. We want
this matter settled on the ground of justice
and mercy, and it ought not to take very
long to settle what is just to all parties and
what is merciful to one (the infant). I do
want that those who produce this food for
us should have suitable compensation. Just-
ice to all parties—let us stand on that."

	The suffragists have won another victory
in Sweden. Parliament lately broadened
the basis of municipal suffrage for both men
and women, and in doing so they accident-
ally broadened it for women a little more
than they had intended. The municipal
vote had been limited almost entirely to

[Column 2]

single women and widows. In readjusting
the qualifications for both men and women,
the bill was so worded as to make it possi-
ble for any married woman with a small in-
come to get her name placed on the register
by paying a voluntary tax. Thereupon a
member opposed to equal suffrage intro-
duced an innocent-looking bill to exempt
married women with an income of less than
200 kroner from taxation. The effect of it
would have been to make it impossible for
married women with small incomes to vote. 
The women discovered "the joker." The
Swedish National Suffrage Association,
which has 164 local branches and more than
11,000 members, held a meeting of protest,
and sent to every member of Parliament a
letter urging that the municipal rights of
Swedish women ought not to be curtailed
just when Norway had made municipal suf-
frage for women universal. The Lower
House voted down the bill unanimously. 
In the non-representative Upper House it
was amended and then passed, but when it
came up for final action by the two houses
sitting jointly, it was decisively defeated. 
Thus, though the married women with small
incomes got their municipal vote by inad-
vertence, the Parliament which has just ad-
journed decided deliberately to let them
keep it. 

	Dr. Alice Hamilton, a long-time resident
of Hull House, Chicago, received on June
30, the honorary degree of Master of Arts
from the University of Michigan. Until re-
cently she was assistant to Dr. Ludwig Hek-
toen, head of the Memorial Laboratory for
the Study of Infectious Diseases. She is a
graduate of the medical department of the
University of Michigan, and has made
special studies of the universities of Munich
and Leipzig and at the Institute at Frank-
fort. Her contributions to medical litera-
ture have given her distinction in the medi-
cal profession.


[Column 1]
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL in NURSING and
	OBSTETRICS will open Oct-
	ober 10, 1910.
Address:
		713 SECOND AVE.,
			SALT LAKE CITY,
						UTAH.

[Column 2]
	School of Nurses
			and Obstetrics
DR. ROBERTS’ SCHOOL OF NURSING
Will open in Salt Lake City, on Mon-
day, September 19, School in Obstet-
rics will start Monday, October 10,
1910. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts is a gradu-
ate of the Woman’s Medical College
of Pennsylvania. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Twenty-five years a practicing phy-
sician in Salt Lake City. . . . . . . . . .
Twenty years has taught nursing
and obstetrics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For seven years Instructor of the
Latter-day Saints Relief Society
School of Nurses. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For further information write to
	MARGARET C. ROBERTS, M. D.,
		79 C. Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Bell Phone 2002.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71, Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

 Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1910					No. 3.


CONTENTS.
									Page
A Portrait (Bathsheba W. Smith)...............	17
Sister Bathsheba in the House of the Lord
	L. L. Greene Richards.......................	17
A Loving Tribute..........................E. B. W.	17
Missionary Experiences.....Lydia D. Alder	18
The Lady with the Lamp...........................	19
Resolutions ..........................................19,	24
Biographical Sketch of the Life of Alzina
	Lucinda Willes...................J. P. M. F.	21
A Sketch of the Life of Eunice Billings
	Snow..................................................	22
Relief Society Stake Reports:—In Honor of
	Retiring Officers, Yellowstone, Big
	Horn, Uintah.................................23,	24
Notes and News....................................21,	24
Editorial:—In Memoriam..........................	20
	Impressive Services...........................	20
Poetry: Song...Louisa L. Greene Richards	17
	The Unbounded Sphere.....................
	......................Alice Cameron Voorhis	9
	The Light is Shining On.....................
	.......................Mrs. Carrie L. S. Rose	19
Voices.........................Dora B. Monteflore	19


SONG.
For our beloved President Bathsheba W. Smith,
	on her eighty-first birthday, May 3, 1903.

	Tune: “My Mother Dear.”
Thy smile, like happy sunshine,
	We ever love to greet;
Thy voice, which breathes of holy things,
	In accents low and sweet;
Words from the Prophet Joseph’s tongue,
	Of inspiration true,
In other days, when thou wert young,
	In “beautiful Nauvoo.”

		CHORUS:
Our gentle friend, our lady fair,
	Our sister dear, and mother.

With prophets and apostles
	Thy favored path hath led; 
In sacred places thou hast stood,
	Where heav’nly angels tread;
And when with sorrow and distress,
	Weighed down thy soul hath felt,
The Holy Ghost in tenderness
	Hath with thee richly dwelt.

This day, the anniversary
	Of that which gave thee birth,
We find with thee a quiet joy
	Which far exceedeth mirth;
A peaceful, holy influence,
	Which love and truth impart;
The child-like faith and innocence
	That guide the pure in heart.

So many shifting seasons
	Thy feet have meekly trod,
Each change hath brought thee nearer to
	The presence of thy God;
Yet many more glad years, we trust,
	Thou shalt on earth remain;
Then ’mong the sanctified and just,
	With thy great husband reign.
			—Louisa L. Greene Richards.


A PORTRAIT.
A queenly woman, statuesque and grand,
Regal in manner, courteous in command,
Of reverential presence, and her face
Radiantly fair, beaming with hope and grace,
Her vibrant life one long sweet symphony
Of duty, love and soulful harmony.


SISTER BATHSHEBA IN THE HOUSE OF
			THE LORD.
	Great as was the love of this noble and
gifted woman, Bathsheba W. Bigler Smith,
for the beautiful works of charity which
pertain to the mission of our Relief Society,
her devotion to the special labors of salva-
tion and redemption for the children of God
in his Holy House seemed, if possible, even
more earnest and untiring, and more richly
and perfectly enjoyed.
	Having begun to acquire a knowledge of
the sacred ordinances of the House of the
Lord under the direct instructions of the
Prophet Joseph, unto whom the perfect and
wonderful plan was revealed by the Lord
himself, and having administered in those
ordinances in the Nauvoo, St. George, Lo-
gan and Salt Lake Temples, her understand-
ing and comprehension of the magnitude
and grandeur of the work might well be so
far reaching that her appreciation of and
love for it could not be otherwise than great
indeed. And so well was she fitted for such
angelic and loving employment, both by na-


ture and education, it is
not in any way surpris-
ing that from the time of
the first work which was
performed in the Salt
Lake Temple until the
beginning of the illness
which terminated her
mortal existence, she was
ever anxious to be in her
place in that holy edifice,
and missed there on very
few occasions during
more than seventeen
years, since the temple’s
dedication.—L. L. Greene
Richards.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.
PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA
	W. SMITH.
	With the tears that
dim our eyes, and the
love that wells up in our
hearts for the beloved
President just departed
to that “better land”
there is also mingled a 
sort of triumphant joy,
at the thought of her
glorious entrance into
the presence of the royal
victors, who have gone
on before to the higher
court, and who were
there, no doubt, to bid
her, whom we miss from
our midst, a joyous wel-
come to the heavenly
paradise of peace and
rest.

“No long dark night is there,
No light from sun or silvery moon is given;
But Christ the Lamb of God all bright and fair,
Illumes the city with effulgence rare,
The glorious light of heaven.”

	No words of ours, however tender, can
express the love in our hearts for the faith-
ful and true woman of whom we are now
bereft; we know and realize that we can-
not have her with us here again, but her
living presence has so permeated our lives,
that we shall ever feel, that she is a part of
all our movements in the great work for
womanhood with which she has so many
years been identified; yes, from its very
inception; no other woman of all the chosen
few who met together on that memorable
occasion, when the Prophet of the Lord de-
clared in unmistakeable terms that the time
had come to organize the sisters of the
Church for higher development.
	Three score and eight years Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith has been connected with
the Relief Society. For more than half a 
century she has stood a pillar of strength in


[Column 1]
Israel. A pattern of excellence and of sim-
plicity to all the daughters of Zion. Surely
we may say of this mother of mothers in
the words of Solomon, the wise man.

	“Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou 
excellest them all.”

	All that can be said or written of this
saintly woman, will not perhaps satisfy those
who loved her so deeply and sincerely, but
it is the last tribute we can pay to those
who leave us for that land of beauty and of
rest where they who have lived lives of
purity on earth have entered in through the
shining portals, nevermore to know sorrow
or parting.
	We who have put our hand to the plow
must not turn back because one who was
our teacher, our exemplar, our good com-
rade has gone on ahead and left us to
forge our own way perchance through
rough and untrod paths; be of good cour-
age, let us not look backward but press on
toward “the prize of the high calling” and
never grow weary in well-doing.
	There are still new fields to traverse and
heights to climb, in the realm of woman’s
work in spiritual growth and intelligence;
what a mission awaits the young sister-
hood. We have barely seen the auspicious
dawn of woman’s era of which we talk so
freely. Are we not glad that we have be-
fore us greater things to accomplish and
wider scope for our more efficient endeavors.
	The noble example of the heroic women
of the past in the early days of the Church,
laboring under great difficulties, driven from
place to place, sometimes without shelter,
and yet patient, submissive, and prayerful,
full of that sublime faith which never falters,
these women who have been the standard-
bearers to light the way of progress for the
younger generation are nearly all gone, and
therefore we may be excused if we speak
their praise, and proclaim their good deeds;
and we say to the young women of today,
go and do likewise, and more abundantly.
	This is not a pen picture of the beautiful
life and character of Sister Bathsheba, whose
name is enshrined in the hearts of those who
know her sterling worth and who loved her
for her many noble characteristics, but is
more a tribute of love, and at some time in
the near future a true history of her long
sweet life must be written, and left on rec-
ord for those who will carry forward the
work hereafter.
	Many of us know how proud she. was of
having been born in Virginia, and looking
back to that period one seems to see the
picture portrayed by her of her home on
the farm and its surroundings, the girl her-
self on horseback, fearless and free canter-
ing over the fields and breathing in the pure
air; to her this was the greatest luxury. It
is indeed a lovely country, woods and fields,
and streams of pure sparkling water, and
an abundance of the good things of life.
	Into this Southern home of plenty and
thrift the Gospel came, brought by Elders
of the Church of Latter-day Saints. The
Bigler family were converted. Bathsheba
with the others, and strange to say, one of
the young Elders who carried the glad tid-
ing s of great joy into that home was the
gifted young Elder George A. Smith. Some
years after George A. Smith and Bathsheba
Bigler were married; it was a true love
match, and proved a very happy one. Elder

[Column 2]
George A. Smith became a very distin-
guished man, was called to fill important
positions of honor and of trust in the Church
and in the state, and always by his side
sharing his honors and rejoicing in his pros-
perity and achievements was the wife of his
youth, true and faithful in all the walks of
life. Many years they journeyed on togeth-
er, through the various changes that come
into the lives of the saints, who yield obedi-
ence to the Gospel requirements.
	Finally in 1876, death entered their home
and the faithful and devoted husband was
called to a higher sphere. Sister Bathshe-
ba Smith the fond and devoted wife, felt
she could not be left to tread life’s paths
alone without the loving companionship of
her husband; but with the heroic courage
of a true saint, he entreated her to live and
bear testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and the work of the Lord established
through his divine mission. This Sister
Bathsheba has faithfully fulfilled, thirty-four
years of widowhood, without murmur or
complaint she has borne the testimony that
her husband desired, and which she herself
delighted in giving to all the world by voice
and pen, borne it to thousands, and people
were always impressed with her words for
they carried conviction of sincerity and
truth.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith has gone to her
husband and her son (slain in the prime of
life by the Indians), and we miss her dear
face in all the accustomed places, her pass-
ing away was so quiet and peaceful that one
can scarcely realize the fact that we can
never see her on earth again. It is like one
going on a long journey without bidding
good bye.
	Her life was full to the brim of useful-
ness in the Master’s service, everywhere she
went she scattered blessings, and her favor-
ite saying at parting with her friends was
“peace be unto thee, peace to this house;”
and her mission was one of peace and bless-
ing. How beautiful the scriptural saying:
“He giveth his beloved sleep,” and how ap-
plicable to this blessed woman—truly she
fell asleep and passed peacefully away with-
out a struggle or even a sigh, it was scarcely
perceptible that her spirit had fled.
	Her demise occurred on Tuesday morn-
ing, September 20, 1910 at 10:15.
	The funeral services were held in the
large Tabernacle on Sunday September 25.
Sister Smith was the very first woman ever
buried from the Tabernacle. The building
was artistically draped in white, the cas-
ket was pure white and many of the flow-
ers, gifts of loving relatives and friends
were pure white. A large oil painting of
this queenly woman was hung on the great
Tabernacle organ and was a very signifi-
cant feature in the grouping of the gather-
ing. There seemed no death in all that great
assembly of people, it was like a sacred ser-
vice in a holy sanctuary.		E. B. W.

“So he bringeth them unto their desired haven.”
—Psalm cvii: 30.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
			(Continued.)
	Another instance was that of a young sis-
ter who was afflicted with a white swelling
on her knee, about the size of an English
loaf. The Elders asked me to go to her and
give her a blessing, which I did, after the ad-
ministration. She was quite alarmed as she

[Column 2]
could not stand or walk. On visiting her
the next day, I found her well, walking
around. She was then a faithful Saint; af-
terwards she was married out of the Church,
relying on his promise that he would not in-
terfere with her in her religion. At once
after her marriage he forbade her to go to
the meetings or recognize the elders when
she met them. The result is she has left the
Church.
	Before leaving for London, I dreamed
one night that I was ill, I went home; but as
soon as I reached there I was well. Then I
grieved that I had not remained longer, and
resolved to return and finish my mission. So
I was busy packing my trunk, my two
daughters assisting me. As we eagerly
discussed where this thing should be placed,
and that, our hands touched as we laid them
in. Then I awoke, and found myself alone
in my little room in Sittingbourne. And
how glad I was that I was there!
	Then a letter came from Aunt Em. “Do
not get discouraged, Lydia,” she wrote;
“lady missionaries are an experiment now,
and I want you to adapt yourself to condi-
tions; do not get discouraged and come
home.”
	“O Aunt Em,” I thought, “if you could
only see some of the conditions!” Neverthe-
less I was grateful for remembrance and
encouragement. I enjoyed walking through
the fields and green lanes of England, as
we went to meeting or visited the Saints.
Often as we walked we sang, “Ye who are
called to labor,” and “Though deepening
trials throng your way, Press on, press on ye
Saints of God.” How beautiful the hymn
sounded, echoing and re-echoing, near and
far the songs of Zion always inspiring,
seemed doubly so now.
	London once more, and a most refreshing
conference. We met friends as well as
Elders from Zion whom we were rejoiced to
meet again. Some of the missionaries were
transferred to other fields, some re-appoint-
ed. I was among the later. I was glad for 
I had made friends where I stayed. It was
not that the dear woman (a Catholic) had
not been subjected to disagreeable things,
neighbor even going to her husband, telling
him of what was said about the Mormons.
But they withstood it all, and allowed me to
remain, rejoicing when I came back to them.
I had only just gotten down to work again
when disquieting letters began to arrive
from home. My eldest son was ill, his baby
also. Other letters stated things were quite
critical, and I decided to go to London, so
as to get the letters earlier, or if it should
be deemed advisable, start for home. One
of the Elders accompanied me.
	The last afternoon in Sittingbourne we
visited one of the Saints far out in the
fields, and as we returned a lark arose from
an adjacent field near to us, and, flying high
in the air, burst into a most prolonged tri-
umphant song. I stood still and listened. 
“It is a good omen,” I said. I called on all
the Saints and bade them farewell in case I
did not return. Letters came frequently.
“Don’t come yet, mother,” one said, “If
things are worse we will let you know.”
After fast Sunday meeting at Clerkenwell
some of the Saints returned with us to tea
at Penton Street. A young sister sat next to
me whom I observed did not eat anything,
and was silent. “Are you not well, sister,”
I asked. Then she told me she was going
to the hospital next day to have a growth
at the base of her great toe removed (it was


about the size of an English walnut), “but 
I fear the knife,” she said. 
	I who was also there under a great sus-
pense could appreciate her feelings. I en-
couraged her to have faith, then said, “If we
were only at home that you might receive a
blessing before undergoing the ordeal!” Or
it may be that it could be removed without
the knife.” Sister, can I not get a blessing
here?” she said. I referred her to the pre-
siding Elder, who said, “certainly, sister;”
then to me, “take her up into your little
room and give her a blessing.” At Clerken-
well, after evening meeting we parted and I 
was to visit her just as soon as she had un-
dergone the operation. 
	Next day my suspense ended in a dread
certainty as regards George’s baby, for the
letter said he had died. George himself
was critically ill. I wrote to President Ly-
man who said, “Do not go, sister, if you do
you will always regret it. It would take you
over two weeks to get home and you might
meet your son walking down the street when
you arrived, but if you feel you cannot re-
main I will give you an honorable release to
return.” During this time I had not heard
from the sister, but one day on returning to
headquarters behold she came walking to-
ward me, a happy smile on her face. “Can
you walk so soon ?” “I did not have it re-
moved,” she said, “It simply disappeared!”
And she was well. 
	The joy this incident gave me enabled me
to bear the trial I was under, so that when
a letter came saying things were well again
at home, I was almost overcome. 
	A letter came from Watford, they wanted
the President to send a missionary sister
down there. They had been troubled by an
apostate spirit, the Elders had been mobbed,
etc. “Are you afraid to go,” asked the
President. “Not if you send me,” I replied. 
So to Watford I went and the months I
spent there were now ended. My daughter
May had finished her school year and came
over to me there, which was a great com-
fort to me. We were to go to the new head-
quarters, 97 Farleigh Road, when we
reached London, and felt so thankful for
the great improvement. At home in our
own pretentious dwelling after the many
years of renting undesirable 36 Penton St.
‘“London, mamma,” May calls out, “have
you been dreaming all this time?” “Only a
day dream, May.”—LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LADY WITH THE LAMP.
This poem is the poet Longfellow’s tribute to the
	midnight vigil of the heroine of the 
		Crimea, Florence Nightingale.

		Lo! in that house of misery
		A lady with a lamp I see
		Pass through the glimmering gloom
		And flit from room to room.
		And slow, as in a dream of bliss,
		The speechless sufferers turn to kiss
		Her shadow as it falls
		Upon the darkening walls.

		On England’s annals through the long
		Hereafter of her speech and song
		That light its rays shall cast
		From portals of the past.
		A lady with a lamp shall stand
		In the great history of the land
		A noble type of good
		Heroic womanhood.

The papers are telling over again the
beautiful story of Florence Nightingale’s
life. It deserves to be written in letters
of gold. Yet some of these very same pa-


pers will assert tomorrow that “the best
women do not want to vote.” Florence
Nightingale was a suffragist, as well as a
pioneer in trained nursing. When Eliza-
beth Blackwell was pursuing her medical
studies in London, Miss Nightingale, then
a young lady living at home, used to come
and sit with her in her little room, and talk
with her of her own wish to become a doc-
tor, and of how keenly she felt the limita-
tions that hedged in women’s activities up-
on every side. There were “Antis” in those
days, too, on the subject of women in the
hospitals. When Florence Nightingale and
her band of nurses went out to the Crimea,
Mary Russell Mitford called them “‘notorie-
ty-seeking ladies,” and declared that male
nurses would be much more useful. But
wisdom is justified of her children.—Ex.


THE UNBOUNDED SPHERE.
	By Alice Cameron Voorhis.

What are the “duties” of “woman’s sphere?”
To hearten those anguished by life’s grim fear;
To mother a nation of babbling sons;
To cherish the world's sad little ones.

Down at life’s portal of dread she learns 
The unselfish love, and, mayhap, returns
To tenderly nourish the man-to-be—
Thus training for world-wide maternity.

To bind her powers to one narrow plan
Were a loss to God and a shame to man.
Her “duties,” self-chosen, encourage peace;
Her freedom but heralds the world’s release.


THE LIGHT IS SHINING ON.
		By Mrs. Carine L. S. Rose.
	Tune: “Battle Hymn of the Republic.”

I have seen the grand uprising that is spreading
	through the land,
It heralds the good tidings that the kingdom is
	at hand,
The day when men and women in full comrade-
	ship shall stand,—
		The light is shining on.

				Chorus:
		Glory, glory, hallelujah!
		Glory, glory, hallelujah!
		Glory, glory, hallelujah!
		The light is shining on.

The father and the mother shall unite for truth
	and right:
A little child shall lead them forth to visions fair
	and bright;
The home will be more holy and the world have
	less of night,—
		The light is shining on.

Equality and freedom is the gospel of today,
Throughout the world it’s spreading with an
	ever widening ray,
Fraternity the guiding star that leads the Christ-
	like way,—
		The light is shining on.

Then keep the watch-fires burning for the long 
	and dreary night.
Will change to golden morning, lo! the dawn is
	breaking bright,
And soon the noon of glory will flame out for
	human right,—
		The light is shining on.


VOICES.
		By Dora B. Monteflore.
Hark to the voices of the dawning day, 
	The voices whispering through the rustling
		reeds,
The voices swirling through the surging spray,
	The voices murmuring in the swelling seeds!
	One song, one hope they hymn,
	Though song and hope seem dim.


A voice I hear of toilers in the heart
	Of city’s gloom, who crave for leave to live,
And work and die, like men; who claim their
			part
	In this world’s heritage. Shall we not give
		An answer to that cry
		Lest patience in them die?

Another voice I hear—a woman’s wail
	For sister women trampled under foot
Out of God’s likeness; crushed outside the pale
	That shelters happier ones. Lo! at the root
		Of womanhood’s ideal
		Creeps the low real!

After it come in surging waves of sound
	The women’s voices all with “Set us free!
Too long the slave of slaves; too long the
			round
	Of sacrifice unconscious daily we
		Invoke. We, too, would rise
		Through conscious sacrifice!”

Ah! voices of the weak and the despised.
	Break forth in singing, for your day has
		come!
The darkest hour is by the dawn surprised,
	And those that wander, they are nearest 
			home.
		Sad voices sob and fall,
		But never cease to call.

For do ye not throb with the sacred strain
	That calls on man to join in brotherhood;
And do ye not rise on strong wings of pain,
	To save true woman through her mother-
			hood?
		Ah, brothers, sisters, greet
		These voices strange and sweet!

Greet every trembling voice of dawning day;
	The voices whispering through the rustling
			reeds,
The voices singing through the swirling spray,
	The voices murmuring through the swelling
			seeds,
		One song, one hope they hymn
		Though song and hope seem dim.


RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sis-
ter Sarah Ward Hickenlooper, who departed
this life July 12, 1910, after a brief illness.
	Sister Hickenlooper was born on the 8th of
July, 1819, in Leicester, Leicestershire, England,
and emigrated to Utah in 1850. She was mar-
ried to Bishop William Hickenlooper on Nov.
11th, of the same year. She was the mother of
four children, three of whom preceded her to
the other side, the last being a son thirty-one
years of age; this was a severe trial, but she
bore it with great fortitude and resignation, as
she did every other test that was made of her
faith. She shared in all the difficulties and af-
flictions which the Saints were forced to under-
go in the early settlement of these valleys. At
the time of the move south she remained behind
to take care of sister Robbins, a sick woman
who could not be moved, and was left practical-
ly alone, showing the courage of which she was
possessed.
	She was a member of the Sixth Ward Relief
Society in Salt Lake City, from its first organ-
ization, and during that time held the positions
of teacher and treasurer, both of which she
filled with honor to herself and satisfaction to
those she labored with.
	And we, the officers and members of the
Sixth Ward Relief Society, feel to acknowledge
the hand of God in her removal—that she was
permitted to depart without any severe suffer-
ing or distress—that her last moments were
peaceful and serene. And, be it
	Resolved, That we treasure in our hearts the
many noble traits of character which she pos-
sessed; that we strive to remember the many
fervent testimonies which she has borne, and
the noble example which she has set among us;
that we strive to emulate her many virtues and
so shape our lives that we may merit the exalta-
tion which we feel sure she has attained to
through her integrity to the truth.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, recorded in our min-
utes, and one sent to the “Woman’s Exponent”
for publication.
			ELLEN R. WATSON, Prest.
			ALICE BUTTERWORTH,
			MARGARET LEATHAM, Couns.
ESTHER H. D. WATSON, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. 
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	SEPTEMBER, 1910


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM. 
PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	It would be impossible in a brief notice of
our beloved President, sister and friend of
long years, to do any thing like justice to her
memory, or to write even a brief sketch of
her life, but we must make mention of her
recent demise, leaving the details of her life
until a later date.
	Our hearts are deeply touched, she had
been with us so long and we had hoped she
might remain with us a few years longer;
but our Heavenly Father has called her
home, and we feel to acknowledge his hand
in this, as in all the dispensations of his
Providence.
	Bathsheba W. Bigler was born May 3,
1823, in Shinnston, Harrison county, West
Virginia, and was the daughter of Mark
Bigler and Susannah Ogden; her father was
a Pennsylvanian, her mother from Mary-
land; she had a happy childhood in her dear
Southern home. When about fifteen years
old some Latter-day Saint Elders visited
that vicinity, and she heard them preach and
believed the message of salvation they
brought to the people, and in August, 1837
she was baptized into the Church. Most of
the Bigler family embraced the Gospel and
soon after they sold their possessions and
went to join the Saints in Missouri. On
their arrival they found the people in the
midst of mob violence; and the young girl
Bathsheba witnessed many of the terrible
scenes of that eventful period, that have
since been recorded in Church history. 
	After the troublous times in Missouri and
moving from place to place, the saints, most
of them, crossed over into Illinois, Brother
Bigler’s family with others; they went first
to Quincy, and subsequently to Commerce
afterwards Nauvoo, in 1840. Miss Bigler
had met her future husband in Virginia
when he was a young Elder preaching the
Gospel and renewed the acquaintance after
gathering with the Saints.
	July 25, 1841, George A. Smith and
Bathsheba W. Bigler were united in mar-
riage, the ceremony being performed by
Elder Don Carlos Smith; at that time Elder
George A. Smith was the youngest member
of the quorum of the twelve apostles. The
union and subsequent life was a very happy
one in every respect.
	While living in Nauvoo two children were
born to them, George Albert who lived to

[Column 2]
be eighteen years of age, (he was slain by
Navajo Indians in Southern Utah while fill-
ing a mission to the Moqui tribe of Indians,
November 2, 1860). The daughter Bath-
sheba born in Nauvoo July, 1844, is still
living, the mother of a very large and beau-
tiful family, her husband is also living,
Elder Clarence Merrill, both of this city.
	In 1846, Mrs. Smith with her husband
and family took part in the exodus from 
Illinois, and during that terrible journey
from the beautiful city Nauvoo to Winter
Quarters, they endured great hardships;
most of the exiles, indeed one might say all,
passed through such scenes of trials and dif-
ficulties, as are too dreadful to recall. The
company with which Apostle George A.
Smith and family came from Winter Quar-
ters here, reached the Valley in October,
1849.
	Since that time Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith has resided in Salt Lake City, except
during the time of the move South, when
the people vacated the city in 1858, but she
only remained away three months.
	The greater part of the life here of Pres-
ident George A. Smith and his family was
passed in the building known as the His-
torian’s Office on South Temple Street, just
east of main, and in that home President
George A. Smith died on September 1, 1876.
Sometime after her husband’s demise Sis-
ter Smith removed to the cottage on West
Temple, her home ever since leaving the
Historian’s Office.
	It is well known to the Latter-day Saints
that Sister B. W. Smith was a charter mem-
ber of the first Relief Society organized in
Nauvoo by Joseph Smith the Prophet, and
has continued in the work ever since. She
has filled many prominent positions of trust
and usefulness in this Society and in other
Church organizations, viz: Retrenchment,
Deseret Hospital, etc.
	In October, 1888 she was chosen and set
apart as Counselor to Sister Zina D. H.
Young, who had been selected President,
after the death of Sister Eliza R. Snow, and
when Sister Zina was called home by death
in 1901, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was
selected to fill the position, October 31, 1901,
and was sustained at a special conference
held November 10, 1901. Sister Smith filled
this position with dignity and grace up to
the time of her death; presided at all meet-
ings of the General Board twice a month,
beside occasional special meetings, and reg-
ular executive sessions of the Society, and
conferences twice a year. During the nine
years she has been president she has not
missed more than five of these meetings,
and has always been punctual. This is cer-
tainly a wonderful record and an excellent
example for the young women of Zion.
	When one considers that President Bath-
sheba W. Smith also presided in the Tem-
ple over the sisters there, and gave four days
in the week regularly to the Temple work,
summer and winter, besides her home duties,
one can see how diligent and industrious she
has been, and her days full of active use-
fulness, an example to all Israel.
	In the midst of her daily labors as it were,
Sister Smith was suddenly stricken down
on the 19th of June last, with an illness from
which she never quite recovered; although
at times her friends were hopeful. All
through these many months of summer her
daughter was at her bedside, and ministered 
with love and tenderness to every need, and
anticipated every desire so far as possible.

[Column 3]
And at last when the final hour came, after
an almost continuous sleep of three days
and nights, it was the daughter who attend-
ed to the last sad offices, but there was no
feeling of death or gloom, for as the poet
has said:
	“Like one who draws the drapery of her couch
About her, she lay down to pleasant dreams.”


IMPRESSIVE SERVICES.
	The funeral of President Bathsheba W.
Smith was held in the large Tabernacle in
this city on Sunday, September 25, 1910,
a very large congregation was present to
pay honor to the dearly beloved President
of the Relief Society.
	Numerous floral tributes were tastefully
arranged on or about the platform, and
casket, the building was draped in white
and the whole appearance denoted a deli-
cate expression of the esteem and reverence
which was felt by the entire community.
	Bishop F. S. Tingey of the Seventeenth
Ward in charge of the services. The Tem-
ple choir were present to render sweet mu-
sic such as Sister Smith loved. Professor
J. J. McClellan was at the organ and that
wonderful instrument pealed forth a solemn
funeral march by Chopin at the opening,
and until the family were seated. The first
hymn was “When first the glorious light
of truth.” Invocation by Bishop George
Romney, a fellow worker with Sister Smith
in the Temple. “O My Father,” by the Tab-
ernacle Choir.
	The first speaker was Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith’s Bishop Franklin S. Tingey,
who referred to Sister Smith as exem-
plary in regard to tithing, and donations,
and prompt in attending meetings in her
own ward, he felt it an honor to raise his
voice in praise of such a noble woman, and 
spoke of her being President for some years
in the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke next, with deep
feeling, paid a tender tribute to the mem-
ory of the life and labors of the departed
referred to the heroic women who had gone
on before, that had been the life-long com-
panions of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, and
who had like the one who had just left us,
laid all, upon the altar of their faith, and
with their husbands, entered into eternal
covenants and been true and faithful until
death. Alluded to the testimony Sister
Smith had always borne while she lived,
and that there were few left now of those
associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	President Nephi L. Morris said in sub-
stance, Sister Smith’s name was a house-
hold word, and spoke of her as a public
character with all the qualities of leader-
ship; he believed woman’s most sacred call-
ing was motherhood, and spoke of Aunt
Bathsheba standing as a noble princess in
Israel. “I wish to express my appreciation
of this beautiful life that has just closed as
far as this earth is concerned. She ever
seemed to move in peace and tranquility,
there was something almost sacred in the
atmosphere which surrounded her. How
sweet will be the rest which has now come
to her in heaven.”
	Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang the
solo “Angels ever bright and fair” in her
very sweetest style, with organ accompani-
ment.
	President Anthon H. Lund of the First
Presidency: “A mother in Israel has left


[Column 1]
us. She was a mother in all Israel. She
has lived a long and beautiful life, eight-
eight years in this earth-mission.” Presi-
dent Lund referred to her being born in
Virginia and of her religious turn of mind,
and her many excellent traits of character,
her faith which was built on the “Rock of
Ages,” following her was a chain of good
works. She was placed in high positions,
but was never made proud by it, never felt
above her brothers and sisters; was a mem-
ber of the first Relief Society and that has
formed a link between the early days and
now. We honor her for what she has done,
spoke of her testimonies of the early days,
and closed with these words, “We believe
a crown of righteousness awaits her, we feel
she was a woman of God.”
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor paid a glowing
tribute of admiration and reverence to the
deceased and added: “We can boast of
heroes in this Church, and we also have
heroines of the highest type. They have
been acknowledged by heaven, and will re-
ceive heaven’s recognition and reward. Sis-
ter Smith has been a member of the Church
for seventy-three years, and has gone down
to her grave without taking one feeling of
revenge with her as did Jesus. Her life
showed simplicity, humility, patience and
loveliness.”
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry: “If
the book of her life were written there
would be something beautiful on each page
I have worked with Sister Smith for nine
years and every day I thank my Heavenly
Father that I had this privilege.” The speak-
er referred to Sister Smith’s excellent judg-
ment in settling important questions, and
felt she always had the Spirit of the Lord.
In conclusion Sister Dusenberry said: “Sis-
ter Smith lived not only in years but in
deeds, everyone felt her sweet spirit, the
faith and purity of such a sweet life.
	President Richard W. Young said: “It
is claimed that with the exception of the
German army, there is no such perfect or-
ganization existing as that of this Church,
which includes the great organization of the
Relief Society, of which Sister Smith was
the head. By this Society distress has been
discovered and relieved. We believe in or-
ganized charity, not in indiscriminate giv-
ing. This is exemplified in the Relief So-
ciety. It relieves distress, nourishes the sick,
manifesting charity toward all worthy peo-
ple in need. What is more fit than that a
woman of Sister Smith’s character should
preside over such an organization as the
Relief Society. In coming into her pres-
ence one could feel radiating from her a
love for mankind, kindness, and goodness.
None knew her but to love and honor her.
May God consecrate her life to the sweet-
ening of the lives of others.”
	The choir sang, “Nearer my God to Thee”
and the benediction was pronounced by
Patriarch John Smith.
	While the mourners were leaving the
building Professor J. J. McClellan rendered
Mendelssohn’s funeral march in E. minor.
The pall-bearers were Sister Smith’s grand-
sons, Clarence Merrill Jr., Thomas Mer-
rill, Louis Merrill, Frank E. Allen, Llew-
ellyn Lloyd and Lyman Horne.
	A long cortege of numerous mourners
and friends followed the hearse to the grave.
President Angus M. Cannon dedicated the
grave in the most solemn manner, in the
presence of a large number of relatives and

[Column 2]
friends, representatives of the organiza-
tions General Board of the Relief Society,
members of the Temple workers, General
Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. General Board
of the Primary Associations, and the
Daughters of the Pioneers.
	The floral tributes were very beautiful
and significant. General Board Relief So-
ciety, and the stake organizations of Salt
Lake, Pioneer, Ensign, Liberty, Pocatello,
Daughters of the Revolution, grandsons and
granddaughters and great grandchildren.
	Doctor and Mrs. Wilcox, Mrs. W. B.
Boothe and family, Mrs. Annie D. Watson
and Mrs. Lucy E. Acomb gave these tokens
of love.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was buried
beside her husband on the hillside just at
sunset—

	“Sunset and evening star,
		And one clear call for me!
	And may there be no moaning of the bar,
		When I put out to sea.”

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT IN HONOR OF
	PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
These resolutions were read at the meeting of the
General Board,. September 23, 1910.
	Our dearly beloved and honored Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith has been called
home—called unto the peace and rest and
joy of eternal life in the mansions of God
our Heavenly Father, answering the sum-
mons on the rich autumnal morn of Tues-
day, September 20, 1910.
	The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints bereft of the
association and guidance of this noble and
queenly woman; feels it fitting to declare
in feeble, yet affectionate phrase, our love
and high esteem for her, whose life was our
great example and whose death is our great
sorrow.
	Therefore, be it resolved that we, the offi-
cers and members of this organization of the
Relief Society in conference assembled, on
this 4th day of October, 1910, by rising vote
testify our reverence and love for her whose
long and gentle life was filled to the brim
with kindly deeds.
	For her who toiled unceasingly and un-
tiringly for the spiritual and material wel-
fare of mankind;
	For her who long years labored loving-
ly and tenderly for the living and the dead
in the house of the Lord;
	For her, who though endowed with gifts
and graces befitting the highest station, was
ever humble and sweet in spirit.
	For her, whose unselfish home life, wife-
ly devotion and motherly tenderness stand
as an example to all Israel;
	For her, who in very truth was a mother
to the daughters of Zion.
	And be it further resolved that we cher-
ish these memories deep in our hearts; that
her beautifully completed life be upheld as
a beacon and inspiration to the generations
yet to follow; and that encouraged by her
example, we may feel—

“We will do like wise, death hath made no
	breach
In love and sympathy, in hope and trust.
No outward sign nor sound our ears can reach;
But there’s an inward spiritual speech
That greets us still though mortal tongue be
	dust,
It bids us do the work that she laid down,
Take up the song where she left off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,

[Column 3]
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown
And our lost loved ones will be found again.”
							—Amen.
Ida Smoot Dusenberry	Phebe Y. Beatie
Emmeline B. Wells		Carrie S. Thomas
Clarissa Smith Williams	Alice Merrill Horne
Jane S. Richards		Annie Wells Cannon
Sarah Jenne Cannon	Priscilla P. Jennings
Romaina B. Penrose	Elizabeth S. Wilcox
Susan Grant			Harriet B. Harker
Emma S. Woodruff		Minnie Horne James
Julina L. Smith		Rebecca N. Nibley
Emily S. Richards		Amy Brown Lyman
Julia P. M. Farnsworth	Annie Kay Hardy


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF
		ALZINA LUCINDA WILLES.
	Sister Alzina Lucinda willes was born in
Susquehanna, Luzerne county, Pa., March
4, 1834. She was the daughter of Corne-
lius P. and Permelia Darrow Lott.
	Her father’s family joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1838,
moving first to Ohio and thence to Nauvoo,
Ill., where as a girl Sister Willes associated
almost daily with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
On account of her lively disposition and her
ability to catch the Prophet’s horse when no
one else could do so, she became a special
favorite of the Smith family.
	She passed through the persecutions of
Nauvoo and in 1848 crossed the plains, driv-
ing a team composed of two cows and two
oxen, the entire distance of one thousand
five hundred miles, arriving in Salt Lake
Valley Sept. 24, 1848.
	For two years after arriving in Utah the
family made their home in Salt Lake City,
where her father died on the present site of
the Knutsford Hotel.
	In 1851 she, with her mother and family,
moved to Lehi and located on the shore of
Utah Lake, where, on April 23, 1852, she
was married to William Sidney Willes by
President Brigham Young, who was at that
time passing through Lehi on a tour of the
territory south.
	When in 1855 the scattered settlers sur-
rounding Lehi were called to move together
for protection against the Indians, Brother
and Sister Willes moved into the town
where she has since resided.
	In 1871 death deprived her of her hus-
band, leaving her with the responsibility of
a large family of young children. Over
this family she exercised the influence of a
loving mother and bravely assumed the ar-
duous duties of a father as well.
	She was the mother of nine children, two
boys and seven girls, five of whom survive
her. Her grand children number thirty-
eight and her great grand children thirty-
five.
	Sister Willes possessed a warm heart and
her life was full of service. She endured
much for the gospel sake and died in full
faith and hope in a glorious resurrection,
on the 18th of August, 1910. At her daugh-
ters, home in Lehi.—J. P. M. F.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont sailed for Eng-
land June 29. She plans to study the ad-
ministrative methods of the three largest
Suffrage Associations.
	The bill giving universal municipal suf-
frage to women, which passed the lower
house of Parliament in Norway, 71 to 10,
has now passed the upper House, 24 to 7,
and has been signed by the king.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF EUNICE
		BILLINGS SNOW.
	My mother was set apart by the Prophet
Joseph for the especial calling in obstetrics.
She practiced for over fifty years, and never
lost a case of the mother.
	Being accustomed to attend all meetings
with my mother, I was present at meetings
of the first Relief Society in the Church in
Nauvoo. And when my mother was called
as a teacher with Sister Markham as a com-
panion. I was not old enough to be a mem-
ber of the organization. During the build-
ing of the Temple, my father worked very
often on it and at those times we lived quite
close, mother being very sick for the first
three months after we moved to Nauvoo.
My youngest brother died at Nauvoo, in his
tenth year. His name was Titus. He was
buried in the cemetery at Nauvoo. Broth-
ers Heber C. Kimball and Newel K. Whit-
ney were called in to administer to him and
while they were administering to him, he
died.
	I saw the Prophet lay the corner-stone of
the Nauvoo Temple. I was a member of the
Nauvoo choir from the time I was twelve
years old, and sang at the dedication of the
Nauvoo Temple. I received my endow-
ments in the Nauvoo Temple when I was
sixteen years old. I was baptized when I
was nearly sixteen, in the font of the Nau-
voo Temple.
	Previous to my fifteeneth year, I remem-
ber hearing the Prophet speak on celestial
marriage, and although I did not fully un-
derstand it, yet my parents made it plain to
me when I was fourteen, or fifteen years old,
and Brother Kimball supplemented their
teachings. Before I was sixteen, when my
mother was very sick, Sister Vilate Kimball
would come to administer to her wants,
bringing foods and dainties. No doubt she
saved her life since she had no one but
myself to do for, and I was so very young
and inexperienced at that time. I remember
when the “Nauvoo Expositor” was de-
stroyed. This was a paper established by the
apostates and it was creating considerable
trouble, so much that our brethren felt that
it should not exist. It was destroyed after
a short time and many of the people were
very much enraged at the time and it point-
ed to the beginning of mobocracy. The
paper was conducted by Law, Foster, and
Dr. John C. Bennett.
	Some of the most impressive moments of
my life were, when I saw the “Nauvoo
Legion” on parade with the Prophet, then
Gen. Joseph Smith, with his wife, Emma
Hale Smith, on horseback at the head of
the troops. It was indeed, an imposing
sight, and one that I shall always remember.
He so fair, and she so dark, in their beauti-
ful riding-habits. He in full military suit,
and she with her habit trimmed with gold
buttons, a neat cap on her head, with a black
plume in it, while the Prophet wore a red
plume in his, and a red sash across his
breast, his coat was black, while his white
pants had red stripes on the outside seams.
He also wore a sword at his side. His fav-
orite riding-horse was named Charlie, a big
black steed. My father for many years,
was captain of the cannon when the legion
was on parade, and many a time, my moth-
er and I made cartridges for him. He kept
the cannon in his charge.
	After the destruction of the “Expositor,”
many of the apostates became wild and re-

[Column 2]
vengeful thirsting for the Prophet’s blood.
The staunch and loyal Latter-day Saints
in Nauvoo, felt that the Prophet was in dan-
ger, and although they lived with a strong
faith in the Lord that all would be well, yet
they tried to dissuade the Prophet from re-
maining in Nauvoo and suceeded so far, that
he moved across the Mississippi river to
Montrose. He did not stay there very long
however, as some of his friends persuaded
him to come back, thinking possibly that his
presence would tend to pacify the crowds of
boisterous people on the streets.
	I remember hearing the Prophet the last
time he spoke in Nauvoo. It was in the
day at the Bowery, which was filled with a
goodly number of the saints. He said, “I
go like a lamb to the slaughter,” referring
to the great shadow, which semed even then
to hover over his life and to foreshadow
his impending doom.
	On the last day which he spent in Nauvoo,
he passed our house with his brother, Hy-
rum, both riding. My mother and I were
standing in the dooryard, and as he passed,
he bowed with uplifted hat to my mother.
Hyrum seemed like one in a dream, sad and
despondent, taking no notice of any one.
They were on their way to the Carthage
jail, and it was the last time I saw the
Prophet alive. Shortly after this, my fath-
er came home and told my mother that the
Prophet and his brother had been murdered,
whereupon my mother exclaimed, “How
can it be possible? Will the Lord allow any-
thing like that?” And immediately she sank
back in her chair and fainted. When she
came to herself, my father lamented the fact
with her, but cited the case that other Proph-
ets in the world’s history had been killed.
The bodies were brought into Nauvoo the
morning after the murder, and placed in the
Nauvoo Mansion to be viewed by hundreds
of people. The Latter-day Saints in the
city were full of melancholy, and sadness
prevailed over the place. Tears were shed
on every hand, and deep mourning shrouded
the city.
	Lucy Mack Smith, Emma Hale Smith,
my mother and I, together viewed the bod-
ies, and I shall never forget the impression
made upon me when the Prophet’s mother
saw the bodies of her dead sons. Falling
on her knees and clasping her hands she
cried out, “O God, why were my noble sons
permitted to be martyred?” Then control-
ling herself with a mighty effort, she said,
“Thy will, not mine, O Lord, be done.”
	After this terrible murder, the condition
of the Church was a pitiable plight, with
confusion on every hand, until the Lord
raised up a new prophet, in the person of
Brigham Young; a second Moses, to lead
the people out of their sad difficulties.

		MY TRIP TO MANTI.
	In 1849, during the October conference,
which was held in Salt Lake City my fath-
er and mother with my husband and myself
were called to go, with Isaac Morley as our
leader to Manti to settle the first colony
there. My husband’s name was John E.
Warner and my father’s name was Titus
Billings. I was married eight miles north
of Salt Lake City to John E. Warner, at a
small settlement called Session’s Settlement.
	We prepared for our journey and started
in the latter part of October. The trip oc-
cupied three weeks, which is strange to say,
when one thinks that we make a continuous

[Column 3]
journey, only camping overnight and mak-
ing our own roads as we traveled along.
On our way, my mother was quite ill and I
had to prepare the meals when I was not
driving a yoke of cattle. My father drove
the other yoke of cattle and my husband
was busy attending to the loose cattle which
we had with us.
	We reached Manti on the 21st, of No-
vember. It being the fall of the year, every-
thing was bleak and dreary. There was, of
course, no house in sight only the brush cov-
ering the ground, and for six weeks we lived
in our wagons with only a brush covering
to protect us from the storms. In the mean
while, my husband went to the mountains
and there sawed logs with an upright saw
to construct our dwelling. They sawed the
logs in two for the sides of the house and
they made sheathing for the roof and floor.
They put in small pieces of wood between
the logs for chinks and plastered mud all
over the outside to keep it warm. The
house consisted of one room and we had a
small stove which we had brought across the
plains, and besides there was a fireplace,
which kept the place warm. We had no car-
pet, but we had beds and dishes, so we con-
sidered that we were quite comfortable.
	When we had lived there two weeks my
first child was born, but due to hardship and
suffering the little thing was still-born, and
I came very nearly losing my own life. I
was sick for quite a while, and my mother,
who was a midwife, nursed and attended
me. She was the only doctor, midwife, and
nurse at the time in Manti. My child, I
think, was the third one born in the little
settlement.
	Many of the first settlers lived in dugouts
along by the stone quarries, and it was not
unusual for them to get up in the morning
and find the rattle snakes crawling along the
eaves of their dugout homes.
	The people did not suffer from any pes-
tilence nor great conflagraation, showing
that the Lord was kind to them and scat-
tered blessings on his servants who had
gone forth to establish new settlements in
his name.
	My father and my husband, during that
first winter drove our cows to the “Warm
Springs” and every morning about ten o’-
clock they would take some bran to them
and milk them. That gave us fresh milk
once a day and in that way we felt that we
had some of the luxuries of life. My par-
ents were very particular in apportioning
our foods every day, so that they would last
until the next seed-time and harvest, and by
that means we did not suffer during that
first long, cold winter. You understand, it
would be difficult to get supplies from the
other settlements or from Salt Lake City, on
account of the means of transportation
through the canyons being blocked with
snow.
	As soon as possible the brethren erected
a large log building near the stone quarry
where we could hold our meetings regularly,
and my husband, Brother Warner conducted
the first singing and led the first choir in
Manti, Among the first members of the
choir were: Brother Warner, my father
and mother, Sister Hannah Morley, and
myself. When we moved to our city lots
and a large rock meeting house had been
built in the center, of town, Brother Warner
continued to lead the singing there until his
death.
	Brother John Lowry was the first bishop


of Manti and my husband served as clerk
of the ward. He also served as clerk to
Judge Peacock during the sessions of the
District Court. He acted as well as clerk
of all public meetings. Brother Warner
was well educated in his native state—Mas-
sachusetts. He played well on the flute,
which, by the way was the only instrument
of music which we had at first in Manti.
This flute was a twenty-four silver mounted
one and very valuable. I played in the first
theater that was organized in Manti, and in
the Thespian Society we often sang duets.
	My mother, Diantha Morley Billings, was
the first president of the first Relief Society
that was organized in Manti. All my chil-
dren, except the last one, were born in Man-
ti. I have had eight children, seven of
whom were born in Manti. I have six chil-
dren living and I have had forty-eight
grandchildren and twenty-eight great-
grandchildren.
	We lived in Manti fourteen years and I
shall always cherish fond recollections of
the place. We came to it when it was bare
and desolate and we saw it grow into a
beautiful settlement. I am the oldest living
lady of the first company that went to Man-
ti in 1849. The greatest sorrow which
came into my life was the death of my hus-
band, Brother Warner, in the Walker War.
I lived a widow three years when I was
married to Brother George W. Snow. I
had four children belonging to him.
	When I contemplate the present times
with all their splendor and luxury, the auto-
mobiles instead of the oxteams, the electric
lights instead of the tallow candles, the gas
stoves instead of the old wood ones, I pon-
der on the works of the Lord and his mercy
unto the people.
	I have several relics with me which I have
placed in charge of Brother Tennant, and
shall be pleased to have anyone inspect
them that chooses.
	The Manti Temple has been built since I
left the city but I have returned and worked
in it.
	I am thankful to my heavenly Father that
at the age of eighty, I have been spared
and I am in fairly good health and that the
Lord has brought me so far along in my
journey that I am permitted to attend this
reunion and to be with my friends and rel-
atives on this happy occasion. That I may
continue to be blessed and to remain faith-
ful to the end of my days, is my prayer.
Amen.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
IN-HONOR OF RETIRING OFFICERS.
	The Relief Society of the Big Horn Stake
gave a banquet at Byron, August 10th, 1910,
in honor of the retiring presidency, Lucy F.
Grant, Avilda Dickson, Ida Sessions, Nellie
Jolly and Ella May. From 11 a. m. until
12 a. m. the time was spent in social chat-
ting and hand shaking. They then partook
of a most excellent luncheon which was to
the credit and honor of the sisters of Byron.
The tables were beautifully decorated with
flowers and fruits fresh from their own
gardens.
	At 2:30 p. m. the following program was
rendered: President Mary L. Welch pre-
siding. Congregation sang, “There is Sun-
shine in my Soul;” prayer was offered by
Brother Egan; Singing, “If There’s Sun-
shine in your Heart.” Address of welcome

[Column 2]
by Barbara Lyman. Verses composed for
the occasion, read by Nellie Jolly. Duet,
“What are the Wild Waves Saying,” by
Etta Wilcox and Margaret Holyoak; reci-
tation, “Slanders,” Rachel Briggs; senti-
ments, Retta Porter; recitation, “My Mis-
sion,” Mattie Neeves; vocal solo, “The
Beautiful City,” by Rebecca Jennings. Re-
marks, “Our aim in Relief Society work,”
Artie Willis; recitation, “John Davis and
Wife’s Argument,” by Kate Abram. Re-
marks were made by stake presidency, Chas.
A. Welch, Jesse W. Crosby and Byron
Sessions. Duett, “When you Bowed this
Morning,” by Millie Egan and Bertha Ses-
sions. President Mary L. Welch then pre-
sented the retiring officers with a token
of love, purchased by the sisters, namely:
Stake President Lucy F. Grant and Coun-
selors, each a silk shawl; Nellie Jolly and
Ella May a cracker bowl, after which they
arose and thanked the sisters for the love
and esteem they had shown them. Presi-
dent Mary L. Welch felt to thank all those
who had worked so zealously in preparing
dinner and making arrangements for the
occasion.
	Singing, “God be with you.” Benedic-
tion, Francis Crosby.
					LIBBIE SNELL,
					Acting Secretary.

		YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	Report of Yellowstone Stake Relief So-
ciety conference held at St. Anthony, Aug.
15, 1910. There were present Stake Presi-
dent Daniel G. Miller, First Counselor Mar-
ion J. Kerr, Bishop A. D. Miller, Sr., one
High Councilman and Sisters Barnes, Ballif
and Briggs of the Fremont Stake Relief
Society. President Julia E. Miller presided.
	Singing, “We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet;” prayer by President Daniel G.
Miller; singing, “We are sowing daily sow-
ing.” President Julia E. Miller welcomed
the sisters to conference. Parker, Wilford,
Warm River, Twin Groves and Ashton
wards were Reported as being in good con-
dition. Musical selection was given by Sis-
ter Grace Williams. Counselor Mary J.
Miller advised the officers along the lines
of their duties.
	A reading, “The Lord looketh upon the
Heart,” by Sister Grace Z. Robertson; solo,
“There’s a mother needs me now,” Sister
Amelia Barnes. Benediction by Sister Em-
ily Lamborn.
	Afternoon session: Singing, “High on
the Mountain Top;” prayer, President M.
J. Kerr singing; “The Happy Day.”
	Ora, St. Anthony, Marysville and Kil-
gore branches were reported as doing well.
President Julia E. Miller reported the stake.
Song, “Oh, Heart of Mine” by Brother and
Sister Thos. Elliot. Sister Barnes of Fre-
mont Stake spoke on Relief Society work.
Sister Briggs spoke on the duties of the
teacher. An instrumental selection by
Brother Elliot. The general and stake offi-
cers were then sustained. Solo, “Some
Happy Day,” by Sister Emily Ballif. Presi-
dent Daniel G. Miller spoke for a short
time. Duet, “Light at Eventime,” by Wil-
ford Society. After a few remarks by Bish-
op A. D. Miller conference was adjourned.
Singing, “Doxology.” Benediction, Sister
Francis Hunter.
				MARY E. BROWER,
							Secretary.

[Column 3]
			BIGHORN STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Big
Horn Stake was held in Cowley Relief So-
ciety Hall, August 18, 1910, President Mary
L. Welch presiding. Singing, “Come, Come
ye Saints;” opening prayer by Bishop W.
C. Partridge; singing, “Oh ye Mountains
High.”
	President Mary L. Welch said, “No doubt
we felt disappointed in not having visitors
from the General Board, but as the Lord
was no respector of persons, we could enjoy
his Spirit just the same.”
	The meeting was then left open for testi-
mony bearing. Francis Crosby read a testi-
mony of Sister M. Isabella Horne, from the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT. Counselor Barbara
Lyman and Sarah Partridge bore their testi-
mony. Sister Abbie Neeves said she re-
ceived a testimony of the truthfulness of the
Book of Mormon when she was only eight,
years of age. In the early days in Utah
the soldiers came to her mother’s house and
began to ridicule the Book of Mormon; the
Spirit of the Lord told her it was true, and
she stood up and bore this testimony to the
soldiers. Sarah Clayton Partridge, Bishop
Edward Partridge’s wife, said perhaps she
was the only one present that lived in the
days of the Prophet, and she wanted to
bear her testimony, that she knew he was a
Prophet of God. She remembered the
Prophet coming to her father’s house. She
wanted her children to hear her bear this
testimony: that Father had always been a
true friend of hers, and she had never called
on him in vain.
	Lois Vance, Lizzie Robinson, Man An-
derson, Jessie Taggart and Rachel Ellis bore
testimonies. Millie Egan told how she had
dreaded a death in her family, and how the
Lord had warned her of her little boy dying
before hand so she was prepared for it. Lucy
F. Grant warned the sisters not to make
home made beer and wine to create an ap-
petite for strong drinks in their husbands
and sons, said one of her brothers had been
made a confirmed drunkard through this.
	Mary Hopkins bore testimony she had
never been to a better testimony meeting in
her life. Sister Avilda Dickson hoped to
always be worthy of belonging to a Relief
Society.
	President Mary L. Welch said she was
thankful for the testimonies that had been
borne. It was a spiritual feast to all pres-
ent. All were invited to stay to luncheon,
which was served in the basement of the
same building by the Cowley sisters; the
tables were tastefully arranged, and all en-
joyed themselves in a temporal feast.
	Singing, “Prayer is the Soul’s Sincere
Desire.” Benediction by Partriarch John
Eyre.
	Afternoon session of conference was
called to order, Pres. Mary L. Welch presid-
ing. Singing, “We Thank Thee Oh God for
a Prophet;” opening prayer by R. M. Lynn;
singing, “Scatter Sunshine.” A letter of
greeting from President Bathsheba W.
Smith, was read by Secretary Irene Mar-
chant; vocal solo by Claudia Smith testi-
mony by Abbie Neeves.
	All bore strong testimonies Sarah
Welch said the Lord had always been a 
friend of hers; gave evidence of the Lord
answering her little boy’s prayer. Laura
Rappley and daughters sang, “I Need Thee


[Column 1]
every Hour.” Artie Willis bore testimony
of the Lord healing her children. Annie
Lafollet and Ritta Porter bore good testi-
monies. Libbie Snell spoke of witnessing,
when a girl, the Priesthood casting out an
evil spirit from one of her school mates.
Lydia Workman said she felt she had to
tell of the goodness of the Lord unto her,
in healing her little boy. He was kicked by
a horse, his skull was mashed and they had
no hopes for his life, but through the Priest-
hood he was entirly healed. Laura Rappley
said she knew the Lord could answer our
prayers if we were miles away from our
loved ones. Had a niece away from home
with consumption, whom the doctor said
could not live, she requested her friends at
home to fast and pray for her, at the very
hour they set for prayer she said she felt a
thrill go through her whole body; she is
alive and mother of a family. Maud Call,
who had gone down to death’s door in bear-
ing two children, told of how she had been
delivered with the third normally through
the young ladies of the ward holding a fast
meeting for her.
	Sarah Ballard, Susan Simmons and Ber-
tha Sessions bore their testimony, told of
the goodness of God to them.
	Amanda Marchant sang, “The Unknown
Grave.” Sister Tiggen, Charlotte Lindsay,
Susie Barney bore testimonies. President
Byron Sessions encouraged the Relief So-
ciety sisters in their work, asked the sis-
ters to honor and respect those who had
been called to preside over this organiza-
tion.
	Vocal duet, “When you Bowed this
Morning,” by Bertha and Vena Sessions.
President Jesse W. Crosby compared the
Relief Society with other organizations of
the world; related incidents of his teachings
in the Church.
	President Mary L. Welch bore her testi-
mony; felt to thank all who had taken part
and made the conference a success.
	Closed by singing, “God be With you.”
Benediction by Claudia Ketchum.—Irene
Merchant, secretary.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of 52nd regular quarterly also
the 3rd Annual Relief Society conference,
held in the Stake Tabernacle, August 19,
1910, beginning at 10 a. m.
	We had as missionaries, Mrs. Minnie
Horne James and Mrs. Annie K. Hardy of
the General Board of Relief Society.
	President Nancy A. Colton presiding.
Singing by choir and congregation, “Our
God we raise to Thee;” opening prayer by
Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett; singing, “High on
the Mountain Top.”
	President Nancy A. Colton welcomed the
brethren and sisters to conference. She
also reported the Relief Society of the Stake
in good condition.
	Lecture on Church History by Mrs. Alice
Merrill, subject: “The Founding of Zion.”
	Song from Vernal 2nd Ward by Mrs.
Jane Bennion, accompanied by Miss Meda
Carpenter.
	We had reports from the following presi-
dents: President Keturah Berkley, Vernal
First Ward President Hannah B. Odekirk,
Vernal Second Ward; each reported the
Society in good condition.
	Mrs. Minnie Horne James was much im-
pressed in storing grain, thought the sis-
ters should put forth an extra effort this

[Column 2]
fall in gathering grain; spoke on the sub-
jects of the Word of Wisdom. Duties of the
Relief Society teachers, also of the lecture
which had been so ably given.
	Mrs. Annie K. Hardy spoke of the beau-
tiful scenery along the road. Encouraged
the sisters to press onward in their work.
Alluded to the lecture which had been given
so beautifully; referred to the Relief Society
being the first auxiliary organization in the
Church, and the charitable work it was do-
ing; we should not neglect anybody, no mat-
ter who they are, spoke of the encampment
in Salt Lake City, and of the words which
had been prophesied, where it says we shall
go up to the mountain of the house of the
Lord. Urged the sisters in their labors,
to extend their efforts to the aged and in-
firm.
	Elder Reuben S. Collett represented the
stake presidency; said life is what we make
out of it; spoke of the responsibilities of
mothers in rearing their children, for the
mother is the one that has the care of the
child to a greater extent than the father.
Referred to mothers work in the Society and
what a great work was being done among
the sisters, dwelt upon charity.
	Singing, “Come, Come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Elder Joseph McKee.
	Afternoon session: Continued by sing-
ing, “Do What is Right;” prayer by Mrs.
Fannie E. Stewart; singing “A Poor Way-
Faring man of Grief.”
	A talk on mothers work by Mrs. Mary
H. Stringham. She outlined the mothers
work and read the different subjects of this
year’s plan.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett spoke of inviting
our husbands and sons to Rdlief Society
meetings so as when they were called on
missions they would know the order of the
Relief Society. Urged the sisters to gather
grain in the time and season and now is the
time. Teach our children the gospel so if
they are called to go and build up Jackson
county they will be prepared.
	Song by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, accom-
panied. by Miss Rose Hays, entitled, “Don’t
be Afraid.”
	President May Lambert reported Roose-
velt Relief Society. President Rachel Bas-
com reported Naples Relief Society—each
Society in good condition.
	Mrs. Minnie Horne James felt well in
hearing such good reports as she had heard;
urged the sisters to persevere in Relief So-
ciety work, and if each sister will study the
lectures they are the ones that will be bene-
fited, but if we just hear them and do not
study them, they will not do us much good.
She compared the gospel with other
churches.
	Song by a group of young girls from
Maeser, led by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, ac-
companied by Miss Rose Hays.
	Mrs. Annie K. Hardy spoke of the labors
of our aged fathers and mothers for our
benefit, also be kind to your small children;
said, sisters be patient with each other. She
exhorted the young sisters to be virtuous;

[Column 3]
and to be true to parents and friends, and
remember the teaching of their parents.
	Elder Dan B. Colton, counselor in the
stake presidency, gave excuse for President
William H. Smart not being there, was
pleased to see so many but there might be
more. He always felt to say God bless our
mothers, he thought the sin of indifference
was growing in our midst to a great extent;
spoke of keeping our girls at home, and
not let them go to mining camps to work;
gave counsel in regard to storing grain.
	President Nancy A. Colton felt to thank
all who had helped in this conference; gave
the visiting sisters a vote of thanks; ex-
plained how charity should be given.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “Come Let us Anew.” Benediction
by Elder Harry C. Hullinges.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.
			Uintah Stake Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS,
	Resolutions of Respect, in honor of Mrs. Lil-
lian Young:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in His divine
providence, has seen fit to call to himself our
beloved friend, sister, and co-laborer, Lillian A.
Young, and
	Whereas, We recognize in her a disposition
of sweet womanliness, a true mother, loving
wife, and real help-mate to her husband, and
	Whereas, Though faithful to her home duties,
her sympathies and interests extended beyond,
in that she was ever ready to perform her re-
ligious obligations, and
	Whereas, The poor and needy, the sick and
afflicted, the orphan and motherless, the suf-
ferer and the mourner, always found a friend
in her, and
	Therefore be it Resolved, That we, the offi-
cers and members of the Dublan Relief Society,
sympathize deeply with the husband, children
and relatives, and feel keenly Her loss as a
friend and co-laborer.
	Resolved, That we meekly bow to the will of
God in calling her home, as we believe to her
exaltation, and we humbly pray that the Lord
will send the comforting and soothing influ-
ence of his spirit to bless, comfort and uplift
her sorrowing family and friends.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon the books of the Relief Society,
that a copy be given to the husband and fam-
ly of our dear departed sister, and that a copy
be sent to El Progreso and one to the Wom-
an’s Exponent.
						BERTHA PRATT,
						LEXIA HARRIS,
								Committee.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Marilla M, Ricker is a candidate for
Governor of New Hampshire. The State
constitution does not permit women to vote,
but Mrs. Ricker says there is nothing in it
to prevent men from voting for a woman if
they wish.
	Mrs. Marie Moss Wheat, wife of R. P.
Wheat, manager of the government tele-
graph system in the Philippines, has voted
for President in Wyoming, Utah and Color-
ado, and has also practiced law in three
states. She was one time State President
of the Wyoming W. C. T. U. She is now
in Seattle, Washington, with her son, who
is preparing to enter the University of Mich-
gan.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
					67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1910					No. 4.


[Image with the caption “CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS.”]
[Image with the caption “EMMELINE B. WELLS.”]
[Image with the caption “JULINA L. SMITH.”]
NEW PRESIDENCY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

[Column 1]
THE NEW PRESIDENT AND COUNSEL-
	ORS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The new president of the woman’s Re-
lief Society—Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells—is
perhaps better known to the readers of this
little paper than any other woman in the
world, for her position as its editor has
made her name a familiar household word
among all the Latter-day Saints. Never
a number of the EXPONENT is issued that
does not contain something from her pen
and many times nearly the whole number
is her work. It may be a poem or historical
sketch, signed Aunt Em, or a theme or
editorial unsigned, but at any rate the paper
is generally an evidence of her untiring
brain activity.
	As a worker in the Relief Society her ef-
forts are also well known among the peo-
ple, for she has been actively engaged in
this work for the past forty years. Fore-
most in all interests in the state for good
but especially for the good of women Mrs.
Wells has always stood, until it is universal-
ly conceded that she is the great leader
among the women of Zion and has endeared
herself to all classes by her gracious help-
fulness and charming personality. More-
over, she is now the only one engaged in
the work of that galaxy of noble women
who were so active in the reorganization of
the Relief Society after the settling of the

[Column 2]
valley—a precious link between the historic
past and the glorious present. How beauti-
ful it is to know, that her long and loving
service has received this honored recogni-
tion.
	The choice of Counselors also has met
with universal favor, both Sister Williams
and Sister Smith being women well known
and beloved, and actively engaged along the
lines of Relief Society work.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the first coun-
selor, has for the past nine years acted as
general treasurer of the Society in which
office and also as a director of the Society
her work has been invaluable. Though
quite a young woman, she perhaps bears the
unique distinction not borne by any other
woman, of having served in every capacity
in the Relief Society. She became a mem-
ber when just a girl of seventeen and was
soon called to act as ward teacher. Later,
she was made secretary and from that to
ward president. A position which she re-
signed when placed on the general board
and called to act as treasurer for the whole
Society. Still later when the Salt Lake
Stake was divided her services were again
required in a local way and she was asked
to assume the office of president of the
Relief Society of the new Salt Lake
Stake together with her present position as
a general officer, a position which she most
admirably filled, for some years resigning
therefrom only after planning and promot-
ing the work in the stake in a most effici-

[Column 3]
ent manner. Sister Clarissa is one of those
broad minded and well balanced women
who naturally become leaders, drawing all
people towards them by their personal mag-
netism. Her practical knowledge of Relief
Society work in every department perfectly
fits her for this new position and her coun-
sel will certainly be wise and helpful.
	Sister Julina L. Smith, the second Coun-
selor is also a practical and energetic work-
er among women having been a member of
the General Board for the past eighteen
years. While her line of work has been
mostly as a home maker she has not con-
fined her talents nor interests entirely to
her own family, but has reached out her as-
sistance and help in numberless ways and
many there are who praise her and call her
blessed. She has made a study of nursing and
obstetrics as well as every thing pertaining
to the essential duties of motherhood and
home making, and her excellent qualities
and attainments will surely be appreciated
by her co-workers. She is endowed with
that perfect mother love coupled with a true
sense of the responsibilities of child culture
which will enable her to impart valuable
instruction to the anxious mothers and her
deep religious convictions will have a fine
spiritual influence among the relief workers.
	Such a presidency bids us expect a rapid
growth in advancement and progression and
numbers.
	May heavens richest blessings be theirs.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PRAYER.
Dear Lord, kind Lord,
	Gracious Lord, I pray
Thou wilt look on all I love
	Tenderly today.
Weed their hearts of weariness;
	Scatter every care
Down a wake of angel wings
	Winnowing the air.
Bring unto the sorrowing
	All release from pain,
Let the lips of laughter
	Overflow again;
And with all the needy
	Oh, divide, I pray,
This vast treasure of content
	That is mine today.
		—James Whitcomb Riley.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
			FERENCE.
	The Semi-Annual Relief Society Confer-
ence for October, 1910, was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Tuesday and Wednes-
day, October 4 and 5 and on Saturday, Oc-
tober, 8 an officers meeting was held in the
assembly room of the Bishop’s Building.
	The conference opened with memorial
services for the late President Bathsheba
W. Smith. The music for this occasion was
furnished by the Temple choir led by Pro-
fessor C. J. Thomas, and was beautiful and
impressive. The choir sang, “I need Thee
every, hour,” and during the services the
following solos were sung: “Oh death,
where is thy sting,” by Brother Siddoway;
“Oh, My Father,” by Brother Geo. D.
Pyper; and “Sweet promised land,” by Sis-
ter Lizzie Thomas Edward, closing with a
duet, “Who are these arrayed in white,”
by Sisters Lizzie T. Edward and Maria
Winder.
	The services were presided over by Pres-
ident Emmeline B. Wells and remarks were
made as follows: Sister Sarah Jennie Can-
non spoke upon the General Relief Society
work of Sister Smith, very beautifully
touching upon her association with the great
women of the past and her feeling of lone-
liness now that they all had gone before.
Sister Emma Woodruff spoke of Sister
Smith’s great work in the House of the Lord
and her wonderful attention and affection
towards the duties of her office as leading
woman in the Temple. Dr. Romania B.
Penrose gave a talk on her long and varied
work in the Relief Society referring to the
extent of it—she having been one of the
original members and working in different
offices ever since, until she finally became
the great leader of the whole Society. She
further said, “She was indeed a queenly
woman, and a faithful woman. She never
soiled her lips with one word against the
priesthood, she taught us to be loving, kind,
one toward another, she was a woman of
great virtue, a woman of great kindness, a
mother to many in Israel. Sister Carrie
S. Thomas read the following beautiful sent-
iment:
“I loved her gentle rule, ‘her gracious way,
Mother she truly was—and is today.’

Ever I see her with the old-time grace,
Her pretty smile and sweet angelic face!

Gone on to him she loved so dear (long ’neath
	the sod),
She now rejoiceth in the Paradise of God.

We’ll scarce have time to miss you mother dear,
So soon we’ll overtake thee—Heav’n is near!”

[Column 1]
	After which Sister Lizzie T. Edward sang
most tenderly—“The Promised Land.” Sis-
ter Annie Wells Cannon read a poem, “The
Chamber of Peace,” following which Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth read the resolu-
tions which had previously been accepted
by the General Board and were published in
our last number, the congregation stood
during the reading and said Amen at the
close. Sister Alice M. Horne paid a sweet
tribute to her dear grandmother, and
thanked the sisters for their kind expres-
sions.
	The services were opened with prayer by
Sister Susan Grant, and closed by Sister F.
M. Lyman.
	The regular meetings of the conference
began Wednesday morning. President Em-
meline B. Wells and counselors Clarissa S.
Williams and Julina L. Smith in charge. On
the stand were the members of the General
Board.
	A few words of greeting were given by
the president expressing the wish that we
would all unite as one in our great work and
exert our utmost energy to build up and
promote this great Society in the cause of
humanity; asked that the Lord’s choicest
blessings might rest on us all, that we might
have a glorious conference. The greeting
was responded to by Sister M. A. F. Keeler,
President of Utah Stake. She spoke most
beautifully of Relief Society work and the
responsibility that rests on its members as
teachers of mothers in Israel. In order to
lead to guide and to assist in our many du-
ties, we should be like the Savior as far as
it is possible. To the women of Zion much
has been given and much will be required.
Education is the unfolding of human na-
ture, the growing up of all things. Life
from first to last educates. The enlarge-
ment of woman’s sphere need not detract
from her first duties of motherhood. In
looking after our daughters let us not for-
get our sons.
	The tenor solo, “My God, my Father,
while I wait,” was sung by Brother S. J.
Winter after which Judge Alexander Mc-
Master, of the Juvenile Court gave a most
interesting and instructive talk to the wom-
en, whom he addressed as the mothers of
Israel. First paying a tribute to the pres-
ident Sister Wells, having known her ever
since he was a little boy and having worked
on her magazine—The Woman’s Exponent
—he felt that no one knew the magnitude of
her work or the untiring labor of this gifted
woman. The judge referred to the unsel-
fish and gentle labors of the Relief Society
and thought the women in the organization
might be very helpful to the Juvenile Court.
He gave interesting recitals of conditions
concerning parents and children and the
laws governing them in early Rome and
England, and the revision and extinction of
some of these measures as time advanced,
until now all civilized people realized that
children should be dealt with in an entire-
ly different manner to adult criminals. He
urged parents to be careful about children
being out beyond the curfew hour and gave
many instances of delinquency because of
the breaking of that law. He urged the
parents to be watchful and careful and spoke
very strongly concerning the cigarette habit
saying, if your boy comes home with the
scent of tobacco about him never rest until
you find the scoundrel who sold that boy
tobacco. He is a violator of the law. No

[Column 3]
law is adequate to punish that man who de-
stroys your boy’s honor. He spoke very
strongly, also about the liquor habit among
young people, and closed by praying the
God of hosts to help every mother to strike
and strike hard to put down these evils that
lead to delinquency among children.
	Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas sang, “Rest
in the Lord,’ after which the two addresses
on amusements, given in full in another part
of this paper, by Sisters Annie K. Hardy
and Amy B. Lyman were given, and the
morning session closed by the congregation
singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Counselor Julina
L. Smith. The afternoon session of the
conference the following songs were sung:
“Mortals Awake,” “A Poor Way-faring
Man of Grief,” and “Our Mountain Home
so Dear.” Two beautiful solos were sung,
one by Miss Minnie Poulton, and “Rock, of
Ages,” by Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Interesting and instructive remarks per-
taining to the work of the Relief Society
were made by President Emmeline B. Wells,
First Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, Sis-
ter Georgina Mariott, President of North
Weber Stake and Sister Annie S. Musser,
president of Liberty Stake, Sister Emily S.
Richards, spoke on suffrage. All the coun-
sel and advice was most excellent, but there
is not space in this issue to publish it. The
opening and closing prayers were offered
by Sister Rebecca N. Nibley and Minnie
H. James.
	The officers meeting, held on Saturday,
was given up almost entirely to answering
questions on Relief Society work and was
quite interesting. The conference was ad-
journed for six months.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
					Acting Secretary.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith.
Methinks the angels must have wept when she
Left Eden’s bowers, put on the garb of earth.
Mortality, attendant of our birth,
Yet still the path to immortality.
Was intuition of her destiny
Felt by the mother-heart that gave her birth,
Cradled and welcomed her great soul to earth.
In latter days to stand, to act, to be?
With what majestic mien she trod life's way,
Leading to higher plane all womanhood,
Ornate with virtues gilding direst day,
Until High Priestess to her sex she stood;
Eden and earth enriched, she passed along
Through gates celestial, joined the victor’s
	throng.
					—Nellie Becraft.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	It having pleased our Heavenly Father to
call home our beloved Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith,
	Be it resolved, That we, the members of the
Relief Society of the Seventeenth ward, Salt
Lake City, while feeling to bow to His will,
extend to the family of our dear sister our sym-
pathy in their loss. We feel that their loss is
ours.
	In the ward in which she lived and labored,
first as Treasurer and afterwards as President
of the Society, she was honored and beloved.
	Her presence was ever welcomed with joy,
and her advice was an inspiration to all to
follow in her footsteps and work for the good
of humanity.
					Fidelia S. Jacobs,
					Johannah Broberg,
					Mary Garrett,
					Lydia Y. Merrill,
					Abbie H. Cowley,
					Harriet Y. Morris,					
					Elizabeth A. Hayward.
Oct. 8, 1910.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE ISLE OF THE LONG AGO.
(From the Atlanta Georgian and News.)
Oh, a wonderful stream is the River Time,
	As it flows through the realm of Tears,
With a faultless rhythm and a musical rhyme,
And a broader sweep and a surge sublime
	As it bends with the ocean of years.
How the winters are drifting like flakes of snow
	And the summers like buds between;
And the year in the sheaf—so they come and
		go
On the River’s breast with its ebb and flow,
	As they glide in the shadow and sheen.
There’s a magical Isle up the River Time
	Where the softest of airs are playing;
There’s a cloudless sky and a tropical clime,
And a voice as sweet as a vesper chime,
	And the Junes with the roses are staying.
And the name of this Isle is the Long Ago,
	And we bury our treasures there;
There are brows of beauty and bosoms of
		snow—
They are heaps of dust, but we loved them so!
	There are trinkets and tresses of hair.
There are fragments of songs that nobody
		sings
And a part of an infant's prayer,
There’s a harp unswept and a lute without
		strings,
There are broken vows and pieces of rings,
	And the garments she used to wear.
There are hands that are waved when the fairy
		shore
	By the mirage is lifted in air;
And we sometimes hear through the turbulent
		roar
Sweet voices we heard in the days gone before,
	When the wind down the River is fair.
Oh, remembered for aye be the blessed Isle
	All the day of our life till night,
And when evening comes with its beautiful
		smile,
And our eyes are closing in slumber awhile,
	May that “Greenwood” of soul be in sight.
					—Benjamin F. Taylor.


[Column 1]
			AMUSEMENTS.
		By Amy Brown Lyman.
	Proper amusements for the young, (the
subject I have been asked to speak upon) I
regard as a subject of the greatest impor-
tance.
	The lives of our children are largely influ-
enced by the amusements they indulge in
and the friends they meet in a social way.
	Providing amusements is a problem that
confronts every parent, it comes up for set-
tlement in every home, and the parent who
does not solve this problem by giving it the
most careful consideration, and by actually
providing and directing such amusements
leaves the young people to do this for them-
selves and thus opens wide before them the
door that may reveal to them paths that lead
to ruin.
	The rearing of a good and well trained
family is for parents their most important
work. What doth it profit them if they gain
the whole world, which endures for time
only, if by so doing, they jeopardize the
souls of their own children which are to live
throughout eternity.
	Human nature is such that the minds of
young people and their bodies also are al-
most continuously in an active state, it is
therefore very important for parents to pro-
vide for them an abundance of proper physi-
cal and mental activities.
	Since the old adage that all work and no
play makes the dull boy, is kept constantly

[Column 2]
in mind by those who are successful in pro-
viding proper activities for the young, and
since it is also equally true that too much
play and little or no work makes an actively
bad boy—therefore it is of the utmost im-
portance for parents to provide for their
young people, first, a proper amount of well
directed work, and secondly, a proper
amount of appropriate and proper amuse-
ment.
	Amusements, the preparations for which
are planned by the young people themselves,
are generally to be preferred to those which
are provided by persons whose primary ob-
ject in conducting places of amusement is
for financial gain.
	When a young people’s organization gives
a ball or banquet a part of the membership
prepares the program, another committee
oversees the refreshments, still another
serves as reception committee, and in var-
ous ways such an entertainment gives em- 
ployment or amusement to the young people,
which, in many respects (because of the
training it brings) is of greater value than
the party itself. Inexpensive banquets which
require time and effort to prepare program,
menu, speeches, and other entertainment will
prove more entertaining often than dancing
parties, and at the same time will be a means
of giving practice in public speaking, and a
general uplift in lines of culture and educa-
tion.
	Local theatricals and concerts are fre-
quently critized because it requires so much
time and effort to make them reasonably
good, and the results achieved are generally
regarded as comparatively poor compensa-
tion for the efforts put forth; but to my
mind, the greatest value in these entertain-
ments is the discipline, training and experi-
ence which making the needed preparation
must necessarily give.
	Without giving further examples I may
state the general proposition which I am
endeavoring to demonstrate as follows:
The prime object of providing proper and
abundant amusements for young people is
to keep their minds and bodies so thorough-
ly occupied, doing desirable things, that
there will be no time and no place for their
thinking or doing improper things.
	There are two things in connection with
this subject that I desire to draw to your
attention especially—first, the importance of
learning some thing definitely about stran-
gers before they are permitted to associate
with our own young people.
	Secondly—the importance of providing
chaperones to accompany our young people
when they are associated together in their
amusement. As one bad apple in the bin
soon spreads decay to all its neighbors, so
does one improper associate contaminate,
more or less, all his companions. For this
reason we cannot exercise too much precau-
tion in choosing, for the associates of our
young, those of our own neighborhood and
those from abroad whose association will
tend to lift up rather than to lower their
standard of life and conduct.
	Strangers or even young men of the
neighborhood will place a value on the ac-
quaintance with your daughters, just in pro-
portion to the demands in conduct which
you require of those whom you receive into
your homes.
	Girls and boys who have been brought up
thus protected and guarded are always ad-
mired and their company and association is

[Column 3]
sought after by the best people in the com-
munity, both old and young.
	The question of proper chaperonage or
giving protection to our young people has
been, I fear, somewhat neglected in our
communities and in some instances at least
where young people have gone astray, their
parents, though they feel that they have
done their best may not be entirely free
from blame.
	Young boys and girls know nothing what-
ever of their own nature—they are abso-
lutely ignorant in this respect. They have
no idea of the temptations that may come
to them nor the nature of these temptations,
and to allow them to come and go when and
where they please is to run a risk that no
Latter-day Saint can afford to do. There
should always be older people or chaperones
wherever there are gatherings of young peo-
ple. The chaperones are not there to criti-
cize or make things unpleasant but to join
the young people in their pleasures and at
the same time to guard them from every
thing harmful or objectionable.
	For example, where young people attend
dancing parties definite provision should al-
ways be made for older people to be pres-
ent from the beginning to the close of the
entertainment. The dangers, too, which
surround young people who indulge in can-
yon parties, lake parties or other camping
pleasures are such that parents can never
safely permit their young people to partici-
pate in them, except when they are carefully
guarded by the constant presence of chap-
erones.
	Some mothers may say, “I can trust my
children, I know they are absolutely safe
wherever they go.” But how can any moth-
er know what her daughter will do if she
is surrounded by evil temptations, the na-
ture and danger of which are wholly un-
known to her? How can any mother know
that her son will be able to successfully re-
sist temptation even of the most dangerous
and deadly sort if it comes to him when fie
is wholly unsuspecting, and in a form with
which he is not familiar. Even old and ex-
perienced people are often surprised at what
they themselves do when they -are confront-
ed suddenly with an unfamiliar emergency
and notwithstanding their age and exper-
ence, under such conditions they sometimes
make serious mistakes.
	I will say in conclusion that it seems to me
it is practically impossible for us to have
our children so well trained that we can
know they will always have the necessary
strength and power required to enable them
to resist successfully all temptations that
may come to them. We should teach them
carefully and prayerfully, but in addition
we should be with them as much as possi-
ble to protect them from harm and assist,
them in passing safely all points of danger
which cannot be avoided.


Miss S. Belle Chamberlain, of Boise, who
is serving her second term as State Super-
intendent of Public Instruction of Idaho,
has announced herself as candidate for re-
nomination. Miss Margaret Keenan, prin-
cipal of the Nampa High School, has an-
nounced her candidacy for the same office.
She has been in Idaho school work for elev-
en years and is a member of the State Edu-
cational Council.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		OCTOBER, 1915


[Column 1]
		EXTREMES IN DRESS.
	A great deal has been said and written re-
cently by our people and in fact by many
speakers and writers in Eastern and English
journals and newspapers about the ex-
tremes of women and girls in the way of
dress, style of hats, and wearing the hair.
The fashions, or some of them, at least, are
hideous, not to say ridiculous as well, and
it is really alarming to the thoughtful and
sober-minded, lest there should be evil con-
sequences.
	Those who believe in simplicity seem to
have gone out of date altogether; never-
theles it is the girl or the woman in sim-
ple costume that is most attractive and in-
deed more charming and artistic.
	Without alluding to all the extremes that
prevail at the present time, just one or two
things are terrifying, to say the least. The
hobble skirts, that seems the extreme of
nonsense, and renders the wearer liable to
accidents, if moving about at all, and what
sweet, pretty young woman should put on
any trammel that would hinder her from
having perfect freedom of action, seems
very strange. The shorter skirts of late
years have been a great comfort, all who
wore them could move more freely and were
not in danger of carrying dirt and dust
about as when long dresses were in vogue,
certainly it was a step in the right direction,
now comes the hobble skirt; however any
woman may content herself with thinking
the hobbie skirt becoming or graceful, it can
never become a universal fashion.
	But the hats that have become so popu-
lar are awkward and objectionable; they
occupy too much space; there is nothing
graceful or elegant about these enormous
hats, and as for the heads, one would think
they would ache incessantly; and were they
even comfortable to the wearer, they are
very disagreeable to other people in close
proximity, although it is scarcely possible
to get very near to the person with one of
these enormous hats.
	And the head underneath, with its puffs
and its rats, and where did it all come
from? Even though one could be sure of
this false hair, or puffs or braids, or rats,
or whatever name it may be called, it is
unwholesome for the brain anyway; and
likely to produce disease, if not death.
	It is really grievous to those who take
these dreadful fashions into consideration to

[Column 2]
think of the serious consequences that may
befall those who indulge in these extremes,
and who imagine that such fashions or styles
add to their attractiveness or to their ap-
pearance.
	The old-fashioned girl in the past, and
not so very long ago either, thought a fine
head of hair was her crowning glory, but
now that is all changed. It must be un-
healthy, and why our dear, beautiful girls,
trained in the correct modes of living and
of dress, should desire out of the way styles
in costumes one is at a loss to imagine.
	But aside from its being unbecoming, and
hurtful, and nonsensical, there is to us as
Latter-day Saints another more serious side
to the subject: it is the spiritual side. We
have been warned and forewarned against
following the fashions of the world, and
the Bible and Book of Mormon, in the most
serious way, proclaim the consequences of
following after those whose minds and
hearts are set on these vain and foolish
things.
	Let your garments be plain and the work-
manship the beauty of your own handiwork.
This we have heard always, and it has come
to be a universal maxim.
	It is still fresh in the minds of our middle-
aged women of today, how strenuous Pres-
dent Brigham Young was on this matter
of dress, and how averse he was to any of
our people, and especially his own daugh-
ters, following what he termed the vain and
silly fashions of the world.
	Retrenchment was the watchword for
some years, and yet retrenching then, when
we look back upon those days in the “sev-
enties,” seems almost a burlesque compared
to what we really ought to retrench from
nowadays, either in dress or modes of liv-
ing.
	And it introduces too into our midst an
element of caste which we should never
foster or encourage, as Latter-day Saints.
	It is not the spirit or sentiment of the
true Gospel of the Savior, and we who per-
mit such an influence and do not try to dis-
courage it cannot hold ourselves guiltless.
	We talk much of the simple life, but how
few practice it. It is said of some of us
who try to maintain that to be plain and
neat in our dress is all that is essential, “O,
well, you are no longer young and you do
not feel this as we do because you are ‘out of
the swim.’ ” That may be so, too, in a
way, but the Prophets and seers and reve-
lators gave us the word of the Lord on
these subjects, and the Scriptures in which
we as a people implicitly believe, tell us
plainly what will befall the daughters of
Zion in the last days. “The calamities oc-
casioned by sin.” One of these says, “There-
fore the Lord will smite with a scab the
crown of the head of the daughters of Zion,”
etc.
	Read the third chapter of Isaiah, com-
mencing with the 16th verse.
	In very many respects it would even be
better for us to go back to the primitive
ways of the Puritans than to follow the out-
landish prevailing fashions of today, that are
making such class distinctions that are fatal
to our best interests and in direct opposition
to the spirit and genius of the Gospel of our
Lord and Savior.
	The Lord will chasten us severely, there
is no doubt, if we by holding our peace
pass it over. Let those who realize what
these excesses will lead to among our young
people lift a warning voice and seek to

[Column 3]
maintain a simplicity in dress and in home
life, that class distinction may not be per-
mitted to flourish among our young people
or even the older ones, but that the bless-
ings that follow right living and upright
conduct in all our affairs may continue to
abide in our midst and that we as a people
may escape the contaminating influences of
those who live for self.


JULIA WARD HOWE.
	The past century has produced many
men and women of renown in various fields
of advancement; and among women of cul-
ture and literary achievement none stood
higher in our estimation, or did more meri-
torious work than Julia Ward Howe, who
died recently in her ninety-second year. She
continued in public life up to the time of her
departure to the “better land.” fulfilling du-
ities and obligations that were essential to
the welfare of men and women, in promot-
ing the best interests and tending to the
highest cultivation of all that is uplifting in
the elements of progress, in the homes of the
people and in this free land.
	The galaxy of great people with whom
her life had been associated is broken up,
and nearly all have gone on before, and
have “crossed the boundary that we call
time.” Clara Barton of the Red Cross and
Caroline M. Severance, one of the very first
founders of literary societies and coteries,
these two of that period are still living,
Clara Barton near Boston, and Mrs. Sev-
erance in Pasadena.
	Perhaps no other woman of her time is
so well known at home and abroad as Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe. Her most famous hymn,
“The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” has
been sung in several languages in many
lands.
	Julia Ward Howe was born in New York
City, May 27, 1819, she was the daughter
of Samuel Ward and Julia (Cutler) Ward.
Her father was descended from Roger Wil-
liams, and Governor Samuel Ward of Rhode
Island, who was a member of the First and
Second Continental Congresses. Her moth-
er was of Huguenot blood and was a grand-
niece of General Francis Marion, known in
the Revolution as “The swamp fox of South
Carolina.’ Little Julia’s mother died when
Julia was five years old. Her father was a
man of wealth and influence, the first presi-
dent of the Bank of Commerce, New York,
and a founder of the University of the City
of New York. He was interested in various
lines of philanthropy and is said to have
founded the earliest temperance society in
America.
	It would be useless to attempt telling of
Mrs. Howe’s life work in a brief news-
paper article. Much has been written of
her in the magazines and periodicals of the
day, and during the time of her life; she has
published several books, written manv po-
ems, and has been connected with news-
papers especially women’s papers for the
last forty years, and she has been president
of the New England Women’s Club many
years, this club antedated, Sororis, she was
one of the leading members of the Radical
Club and of the Town and County Club of
Newport, a lecturer for years at the Concord
School of Philosophy and drew its biggest
audiences; and was president of the Au-
thor’s Club till her death.


[Column 1]
	Mrs. Howe considered “The Women’s
Congress” one of the most valuable parts
of her work, this was known as the A. A.
W.—“Association for the Advancement of
Women,” and this congress held annual
meetings in different cities of the United
States and Canada. Mrs. Howe was an
ardent woman suffragist, and she often told
the story of her conversion to it, and added
that she was glad she joined this movement,
because it brought her into such high com-
pany.
	A list of her books includes. “Passion
Flowers,” “Words for the Hour.” “A Trip
to Cuba,” “The World’s Own,” “From the
Oak to the Olive,” “Later Lyrics,” “Sex and
Education,” “Memoir of Samuel Gridley
Howe,” “Life of Margaret Fuller,” “Mod-
era Society,” “Is Polite Society Polite,”
“From Sunset Ridge,” “Reminiscences,”
“Sketches of Representative New England
Women.”
	Miss Ward was never fond of dress and
as a child was so absorbed in books and
study as to be careless of her appearance; it
is said her sister met her one day returning
from school with one blue shoe and, one
green, and “later it is recorded her sisters
had great difficulty in persuading her to
choose the stuff for her wedding gown.
Julia grew to womanhood dreamy and ab-
sent, absorbed in severe study and compos-
tion.”
	When she was twenty-two years of age
she spent a summer in Boston, where she
met Dr. Samuel Gridley Howe twenty years
her senior. The doctor was already famous;
in 1824, a student fresh from Brown Uni-
versity, he had gone to Greece to fight with
Lord Byron in the uprising of the Greeks
against the Turkish yoke. It is stated that
after two years he returned home raised a
large relief fund and went back with a ship
load of food and clothing which he dis-
tributed himself, he stayed for a time to help
start trade and commerce in the devastated
country. Doctor Howe afterwards helped
the French to establish their second Re-
public, and later with J. Fenimore Cooper
and S. F. B. Morse (the inventor of the
telegraph), he aided the Poles in their un-
availing struggle against the combined ty-
ranny of Prussia, Russia and Austria. Doc-
tor Howe went to Germany carrying a
Polish Relief fund, and was arrested and
imprisoned in Berlin, and afterwards ex-
pelled from the country. Later he was in-
terested in Garibaldi and Cavour in the fight
for Italian liberty. It is said that Mrs.
Howe at the time of her death was looking
forward to meeting Garibaldi’s grand-
daughter who is now visiting this country.
	Dr. Howe was a friend to the Irish im-
migrants who came to this country years
ago in crowds and were very unpopular. At
the time when there was an anti-Irish riot
in Boston, Dr. Howe hurried to the scene to
protect the Irish from the mob, he found
there a tall young man, a stranger to him,
who had come on the same errand, it was
Charles Sumner, and they became close
friends.
	In 1833 Doctor Howe began his great
work for the blind; Julia Ward visited the
Perkins Institute for the Blind with Long-
fellow and Sumner in 1841, there she had
her first sight of Doctor Howe on his black
horse. “A noble rider on a noble steed” she
described him. In 1843, Doctor Howe and
Miss Ward were married and went abroad

[Column 2]
with another newly married couple, Mr. and
Mrs. Horace Mann.
	Doctor Howe had already become famous
the world over through Charles Dickens
in his American Notes of his successful ef-
forts to educate the deaf, dumb and blind
girl, Laura Bridgeman; and their trip
abroad was like a triumphal progress. They
spent some months in Rome where their eld-
est daughter was born and was named Ju-
lia Romana; when they returned to America
Doctor Howe resumed his work at the Blind
Asylum, and Mrs. Howe was busy for years
caring for her home and children, a son
and four daughters lived to grow up, anoth-
er son died when three years old.
	Mrs. Howe was an ideal mother, and most
hospitable in her home.
	It is impossible to give any good idea of
Mrs. Howe and her work in a few discon-
nected paragraphs, those who have known
of her life-long labors feel how inadequate
words are to convey to the reader a glimpse
of this grand woman, but her life will be
written by those well acquainted with her
magnificent work for humanity, and will
doubtless be a rich legacy to bequeathe to
posterity.
	Mrs. Howe passed away October 19,
1910, at Oak Glen her summer home at
Newport, Rhode Island.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston, from
which most of these facts were gleaned, says
of Mrs. Howe, “In her later years Mrs.
Howe occupied a unique position. The
Americans are looked upon as a prosaic peo-
ple worshiping only wealth, and destitute of
idealism. The universal love and esteem
in which Mrs. Howe was held was due, not
mainly to her scholarship or her many-sided
ability but much more to her beautiful and
lofty character, and most of all, to the fact
that she represented the great old traditions
of the Republic. Whatever the cause—and
the wonderful enthusiasm felt for her is hard
to analyze—it was genuine and it extended
to all classes of society. *	*	* What-
ever assembly she entered—even of men, the
most commercialized, or of women the most
frivolous—all rose to their feet en masse
electrified by one spontaneous impulse, and
cheered her to the echo with real emotion
and enthusiasm.
	Funeral services were held for Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe at her summer home, near
Newport, R. I.
	She was robed in white, with the well-
known white cap upon her head and over
it the doctor’s hood conferred upon her by
Smith College a few days before her death,
with the degree “Doctor of Humanities.”
	The memorial service in Boston was at
the church of the disciples of which Mrs.
Howe was a member.
	The casket was draped with laurel stream-
ers and purple orchids, the church in front
of the flag-draped pulpit was banked high
from wall to wall with magnificent floral
pieces from numerous societies and friends.
The congregation was from all the walks of
life, rich and poor, white and black.
	Of the eight pall-bearers five were Mrs.
Howe’s grandsons and the other three were
husbands of her granddaughters.
	“Mrs. Howe was buried beside her hus-
band in Alt. Auburn cemetery, a place des-
tined to be a shrine for pilgrims who will
come to honor her in company with Long-
fellow, Lowell, Holmes, Brooks. Agissiz
Summer and other immortals of Alt. Au-
burn.”

[Column 3]
	“During the day memorial services were
held in all the public schools of the city, the
Battle Hymn of the Republic being sung,
and other poems of Mrs. Howe’s recited by
the pupils.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCIES.
	For the fifth time in the history of the
Church it became necessary to organize the
Relief Society or to place in office the gen-
eral head of that great organization of
women.
	Emma Smith, the Prophet’s wife was the
first president with Sarah M. Cleveland and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney for counselors,
three strong, spiritual, practical women
whose work in the association will ever
stand as a high example to the women of
Zion. Of these three, only one, Elizabeth
A. Whitney, came to the valleys of Utah
with the great body of the Church and
when it became expedient to reorganize
the general head, this sweet angelic woman
was sustained in her old place. The noble
and capable woman, Eliza Roxy Snow, was
president, with Zina D. H. Young and Sis-
ter Whitney for counselors. Under these
three sisters marked advancement along the
lines of Relief Society work was made. In
company with other chosen workers, they
traveled constantly effecting and perfecting
the organizations of women, not only wards
and stakes of the Relief Society, but the
Young Ladies and Primary Associations as
well. Sister Eliza was a great organizer
and possessed splendid executive ability,
which fitted her for this arduous and won-
derful work, and under her regime was ef-
fected the most perfect order and advance-
ment of organization and official duties. Af-
ter her death the saintly and beloved “Aunt
Zina” was called to the office of President
—Zina D. H. Young with Jane S. Rich-
ards and Bathsheba W. Smith as counselors.
The Relief Society has always progressed,
step by step, the different lines of work have
been taken up and advanced. Sister Emma
under the guidance of the Prophet, laid
the foundations and gave forth instruction
in all the different phases of the work.
Eliza R. Snow built up a magnificent struc-
ture, like the marshalling of a great army
to continue and carry out the designs of
the great founders, and Aunt Zina called
forth the best of woman’s nature and
through her lovely teachings and example,
the Relief Society excelled in the purpose
of its existence—Charity. The spiritual
growth among the women of the Latter-
day Saints was most marked. They be-
came comforters in every need, adminis-
tered to the sick and the afflicted, fed and
clothed the poor and rejoiced exceedingly
in the Lord’s service.
	In 1901 owing to the death of Sister
Zina, the Society again had to be organized
and Bathsheba W. Smith was called as
President with Annie Taylor Hyde and Ida
Smoot Dusenbury as counselors. Of Aunt
Bathsheba who has just left us, so much
has recently been said and written and her
work is still so fresh with us that it would
seem almost impossible to add more. Yet,
under the administration of these three able
women great progress has been made in Re-
lief Society work. Many if not entirely
new phases of the work receiving most ju-
dicious attention and assuming a systematic


condition. The general work became di-
vided into departments and great stress
was laid upon the duties and responsibilities
of mothers. The young people, their spir-
itual and moral welfare have been subjects
of great interest in the society work, trained
nurses for the poor, and the necessity of
women educating themselves for their high
calling in office as well as the great charity
of the work, have also been given marked
attention. Again, through dear Aunt Bath-
sheba’s death, the Society had to be or-
ganized. It would be impossible to tell the
general satisfaction of the people when it
became known that our Prophet, Joseph F.
Smith, had been inspired to place at the
head of this great Society Sister Emmeline
B. Wells for President with Sister Clarissa
S. Williams and Julina L. Smith for coun-
selors. These three will take up the work,
where the others laid it down and we doubt
not that in such an age as this, the most
marked advancement along all the lines of
work will be evident. May the Lord bless
them, strengthen them, lead them always
and forever.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			AMUSEMENTS.
[Address delivered in the Salt Lake Assembly.
Hall, October. 4, 1910, by Annie Kay Hardy.]
	Judge McMaster has been telling us about
conditions of the children and the efforts
that are being made to protect and reform
them. Before us we see an army of moth-
ers and Relief Society workers who are
striving to prevent defiance of law by the
young. Do we need our mother’s classes?
	It may seem peculiar to introduce a text
in beginning a talk on amusements. In sec-
tion 59, Doctrine and Covenants, verses 18,
19 and 20, the Lord said to the Prophet, Jo-
seph Smith, (Aug. 7, 1831): “Yea, all
things which come of the earth, in the sea-
son thereof, are made for the use and benefit
of man, both to please the eye and gladden
the heart.
	Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste
and for smell, to strengthen the body and to
enliven the soul.” And, now mark, a cau-
tion is given—“And it pleaseth God that he
hath given all these things unto man; for
unto this end were they made—to be used
with judgment and not to excess.”
	“All work and no play makes Jack a dull
boy” is the old, true saying, and it has been
the policy of our Latter-day Saint leaders
to encourage proper amusements and recre-
ations that will enliven the souls of the peo-
ple. The cultivation of music, the drama,
dancing, social gatherings, literary societies,
picnics, etc., have surely allowed no time
for melancholy.
	When evening parties begin at the time
they should be ending, judgment is not dis-
played; when amusements are so frequent
as to result in dissipation of money, health,
and time, one may claim there is excess in
violation of the revelation quoted.
	There are physical and mental dyspeptics
—and, one may add pleasure seeking dys-
peptics. Something is wrong when mothers
say: “My daughters are going the whole
time. I scarcely see them, A birthday party,
a ride, a shower, a wedding, a picnic, a
Lake party, society fetes, etc.,” and they
must have becoming dresses and accessories
for these occasions. Fashion is so dicta-

[Column 2]
torial that it may be of little purpose to
hint that when it infringes on the health
and comfort of its victims by leading them
into the preposterous, reason should strug-
gle to gain a little ground. The style of
doing the hair, and the hats have been mon-
strous of late, and now we are confronted
by the hobbie skirt. Our shoe men state that
the young and older ladies who wear french
heels, are suffering by the score with flat-
tened insteps.
	The young do not wish to appear singu-
lar, still it is possible to avoid extremes and
what leads to deformity, or to an expense
that works hardship on an already over-
burdened father and mother. Neither is it
fitting for Latter-day Saint girls to uphold
a fashion contrary to delicacy, notably, the
decollete gown.
	There is a growing curse in the love for
excitement that is being fostered by caterers
to the public; shooting the schutes, scenic
railways, joy riding, or dangerously rapid
motor riding, too excessive athletic sports
when not closely supervised.
	Fathers and mothers are grieving over the
temptation the cheap theatres are to their
children, especially the young boys. If they
earn a little money they have no disposition
to save, wishing to take in the “shows” that
often give exaggerated ideas of life, also,
frequently being tainted with coarse and
suggestive references or that which is preju-
dicial to right thinking. And mothers plead,
my neighbors let their children go, and mine
feel that I am tyrannical when I refuse.
There should be a mother’s union.
	A restless world seeks pleasure by run-
ning here and there. To day’s excitement
only anticipate the ones that are to follow
tomorrow. This does not mean a rest and
a change—just a continued excess.
	In some of our stakes, one evening a week
at home with the family is being inaugu-
rated, for reading, music and conversation
and the young people are surprised that so
much genuine enjoyment and profit can be
obtained in this way.
	The old fashion of having our social gath-
erings made up of all ages, grandparents,
fathers, mothers and children was truly
ideal, the zest and joy of the young inspired
the old; in turn, their stability and wisdom
checked extremes, so they were mutually
beneficial. Let us have play, comradeship,
chumminess between parents and children.
Love, sympathy and interest. Fathers
should play ball, pitch quoits, etc., with the
boys. Take them on the excursions they,
love; teach them how to swim, fish, shoot;
be interested in their home and school sports
and always have plenty of innocent attrac-
tions at the fireside, with a place there for
the boys and their friends, so that the ditch
bank and street corner will never know
their presence. The coming of darkness
should call the boys and girls into the home
long before the curfew sounds.
	Mothers, direct, the play world of the little
girls, and play with them sometimes. Know
their companions, visit their school, the or-
ganizations to which they belong, give them
little parties at suitable hours, be interested
in their love affairs when they begin. While
we deplore extremes in dress, give the girls
an opportunity to choose the colors they
like, and the fabrics, too, when reasonable.
Teach them to make their own dainty un-
derwear, be reasonable but firm, and this
will help save our children.”

[Column 3]
We need amusements and only cry out
against excesses.
	“Man is that he may have joy.”
	As a great orator said: “In a world
where God lets His lambs frisk, and His
trees toss, and His brooks leap, and His
stars twinkle, and His flowers make love
to each other, I know He intended men at
times to laugh, and sing and sport.”
	Judge McMaster says: “The strong
arm of the law is operative to reform the
erring youth; as women in Israel we have
God’s great law of love to prevent their
going astray.”


CONFERENCE REPORTS.
	NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of the North
Sanpete Stake was held in Fairview, June
24, 1910.
	President Williamina Ericksen presiding:
Singing, “We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet;” prayer by Brother C. K. Hansen
of Fairview; singing, “School Thy Feel-
ings.” President Ericksen greeted the sis-
ters and bade them welcome; was glad to
see so many out and meeting under such
favorable circumstances. Indeed pleased to
have with us Sisters Farnsworth and Rich-
ards of the General Relief Society Board.
	Sister Miner reported the Fairview ward
as still prospering; were in touch with all
the sisters of the ward, had an increase in
attendance. About all the young sisters of
the ward had joined the Society. Pres. An-
nie P. Candland reported the North Ward of
Mount Pleasant as in a good condition.
Number in attendance had increased. Teach-
ers were taking a great interest and were
the back bone of the work.
	President Ellen C. Tulegren reported the
Spring City ward as being in an excellent
condition. Had good counselors and they
were united in their work. They had over
twelve hundred bushels of wheat and fifty-
four dollars to buy more wheat.
	Tressie Larsen of the Mount Pleasant
South ward rendered the solo, “Love Di-
vine.” Sister Farnsworth of the General
Board was very pleased to be with the peo-
ple of Sanpete, and was thankful for the
courtesies received from Sister Fowles and
Brother Bush. Relief Society work was
growing every day. Parents had a great
responsibility in caring for their children.
She had traveled a great deal and visited
a great many European cities and found
the Scandanavians to be the good industri-
ous people. Read the piece, “Tired Moth-
ers.” Spoke of President Bathsheba W:
Smith’s illness. Encouraged all to do their
duty in Relief Society work, but never ne-
glect husband, children and home, for that
was our first duty to care for them. Re-
ported her visit with the Elders in Europe
and encouraged the mothers to educate their
sons in Relief Society work as they were
called on in the mission field to organize
societies and give instruction in that line.
Mothers keep girls from Salt Lake City on
account of temptation there which we do
not have in the country. Sanpete stakes in
every respect were among the lead. En-
couraged all to go on in the good work.
	Sister Richards of the General Board was
very pleased to meet with such a pleasant
and cheerful audience, considering many


[Column 1]
had traveled several miles that morning.
She had been a Relief Society worker for
forty years. Was here to visit and encour-
age instead of teaching. Had a great deal
of work to do, but gave her Relief Society
work the preference. She felt the Relief
Society work was a great work, and to do
for our sisters and loved ones all we can
while they live.
	A reading, “My mother,” was given by
Sister Sanderson of Fairview. Sister Baj-
nal reported the Chester ward. They had
not held meetings regular on account of so
much sickness. Wales ward was reported
by Sister Ethel R. Dorius. Young mothers
were taking a great interest and a good at-
tendance considering the small ward. Re-
lief Society among first to help bishop and
missionaries.
	Stake Counselor Isabelle Allred reported
the work of the stake officers. All wards
had been visited except two, and they were
not on account of sickness.
	President Levee T. Stewart reported the
Milburn ward as having a good attendance
considering the scattered ward. Young
mothers were taking an interest in the work
and all felt well in the cause.
	President Ericksen made a few closing re-
marks. Singing, “Come, Come ye Saints,”
prayer by Sister Celia Rasmussen.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m.: Sing-
ing, “Arise O Glorious Zion;” prayer by
Bishop Peterson of Fairview; singing by
the choir.
	President Hardy of Moroni reported her
ward as still improving. All were united
and she felt they were doing a great work.
	President Carrie Ericksen of the Mount
Pleasant South ward reported. Meetings
were interesting; mothers meetings success-
ful; financial conditions very good. They
helped missionaries and looked after the
poor. Had a good class of teachers who
were a great help. It was their aim to have
all the sisters of the ward, belonging to the
Church, enrolled in the Relief Society.
	Sister Larsen from Moroni favored us
with a song. Talk on the “Early training of
the child,” by sister Alberta Jacobs of the
Mt. Pleasant North ward.
	Sister Emily Richards gave a very inter-
esting talk, full of encouragement and good
advice. Reminded the parents of the care
of their children. Could feel the Relief
Society was making great progress, as they
were represented nationally and internation-
ally.
	Song by Sister Kate Reese Lewis, of
Wales. Sister Farnsworth invited all Relief
Society workers to visit the Relief Society
apartments in Bishop’s Building, Salt Lake
City. Said there were seven hundred Re-
lief Society officers and forty thousand mem-
bers. Sister Penrose had organized many
Societies in the British Isles. Gave valu-
able advice and encouragement.
	President C. N. Lund, of the North San-
pete Stake, was pleased to be present and
partake of the pleasant and peaceful influ-
ence that existed, was grateful for the work
of the sisters in the stake. Asked the Lord
to bless and propser them.
	Sister Celia Rasmussen explained the
plans prepared for the year’s work. Presi-
dent Ericksen felt thankful for the good
time we had had and also for the visit of
the sisters from the General Board.

[Column 2]
	Song by the male quartett of Fairview.
Benediction by Sister Eva Sorensen.
			FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
							Stake Secretary.
			ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the St. Joseph Stake
convened at Thatcher, Sept. 9, 1910, Presi-
dent Elizabeth W. Layton presiding. Among
the visitors were President Andrew Kim-
ball, and Bishops from the several wards.
A good representation of the Relief Society
of the different organizations were present.
Conference opened by the congregation
singing, “High on the Mountain Top.” In-
vocation by Brother E. S. Carpenter.
“Should you feel inclined to censure,” was
sung, after which President Elizabeth Lay-
ton, in her opening remarks, regretted that
all the sisters in the stake were not present,
for she felt that we would have a time of
rejoicing together. Thought that the moth-
ers should make a special effort to come
out on such an occasion. Solicited the faith
and prayers in behalf of our beloved Presi-
dent, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. Was
disappointed that we have none of the Gen-
eral Board to visit us. First Counselor Sa-
lena Phillips was excused on account of sick-
ness.
	Second Counselor Fannie W. Kimball
spoke on the propriety of storing grain, gave
incidents illustrating the importance of this
movement, encouraged the various organiza-
tions to store all they could, and in the best
possible manner.
	Greetings and congratulations from Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith were read by
the secretary. Sisters Elizabeth Moody and
Emma Merrill having lately returned from a
visit to Utah, and who are members of the
Stake Board, each gave a short talk of en-
couragement to the sisters, felt that our Re-
lief Society organizations were up-to-date
in all their different departments, and con-
gratulated those present on conditions
among us being so favorable. A sacred solo
was rendered by Sister Clara Brinkerhoff.
	A splendid talk on woman suffrage was
given by Chairman of the County Associ-
ation, Sister Inez Lee.
	After emphasizing what had been said on
the storing wheat, President Andrew Kim-
ball took up the subject of children’s atti-
tude toward, and respect to parents. Dwelt
upon the importance of parents being kind
and dignified in their demeanor toward their
children, having respect for all those in au-
thority, that they might set an example
worthy of being followed. After singing,
“The Spirit of God,” etc., benediction by
Mary K. Taylor, conference adjourned un-
til 2 p. m.
	After the usual opening exercises, Mrs.
W. M. Burke of the Anti-saloon League
of the Territory, gave an able and instruc-
tive talk on prohibition and franchise.
Showed how impossible it is to vote intelli-
gently unless one is fully qualified for the
same, and now that we are about to enter
the union, advised the sisters to inform
themselves regarding the franchise move-
ment. This was followed by a sacred solo
by Sister Alice Pace. A paper on hygiene
and sanitation was read by Sister Pearl
Udall, which contained many salient points
for parents in the care of children, and
showed how often disease comes in our
midst through neglect and carelessness.

[Column 3]
	After a few choice closing remarks, Pres-
dent E. W. Layton announced that the con-
ference would be adjourned for six months.
All sang the “Doxology,” and benediction
was, pronounced by Brother Frank Kirby.
			JOSEPHINE KIMBALL,
							Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LUCY WALKER KIMBALL.
		(Autobiography.)
	Lucy Walker Kimball was born April
30, 1826, in the town of Peacham, Cale-
donia Co., Vermont. She was the daughter,
of John Walker and Lydia Holmes. Her
mother was born April 18, 1800; married
April 18, 1819. Her Father was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ in 1832;
the mother, two years later. They left Ver-
mont in 1834 for the West. They found a
small branch of the Church in Ogdensburg,
New York; some of Brother Kimball’s first
converts, preparing to go west also. The
father was induced to remain with this
branch until 1837. During the year 1835
the children, who were eight years and up- 
wards, were baptized by Elder Abraham
Palmer. They were full of faith, having
been taught to pray for their parents, and
received the Holy Ghost by the laying on of
hands, and the signs followed them. Some
spake in tongues, others prophesied; again
others had the gift of faith to heal the sick,
etc. One of this little band prophesied that
before we reached our destination we would
be surrounded by armed mobs with black-
ened faces, and would need much faith in
God to endure the many persecutions and
trials before us, and that some of our num-
ber would lay down their lives; others see
their brethren shot down before their very
eyes. This was verified in the wholesale
slaughter at Haun’s Mill.
	Notwithstanding what was said we did
not falter in our faith but started on our
perilous journey trusting in God. We
passed through Kirtland just after the
Saints had left for Far West. When we
arrived in Caldwell County we were sur-
rounded by a mob of about forty persons
with blackened faces. They hooted and
yelled and looked more like demons than
human beings. It was early one December
morning when this occurred. They ordered
my poor, delicate mother out into the deep
snow, searched our wagons, took from us
our arms and ammunition, pointed their
guns at us children to intimidate us and
cursed and swore in a most frightful man-
ner. One of the neighboring women had
intruded her hateful presence into our camp,
urging them to shoot. “Shoot them down,”
she cried, “they should not be allowed to
live.” The question may be asked how did
we feel under these circumstances? I can
speak for one, I did not tremble—I did not
fear them. They looked to me too insignifi-
cant, and I felt to trust in One, (although
but a child) who held our destinies in his
own hands.
	We continued our journey until we came
to a settlement on Shoal Creek, five miles
distant from Haun’s Mill; my father and
another of the brethren went to the mill
to hold council with Brother Joseph Young
and others, as to what course was best to
pursue under the circumstances. They were
in a blacksmith shop when a mob appeared
in sight, formed in line and without giving


[Column 1]
any warning whatever, commenced, firing
upon them, men women and children. The
first ball fired by the enemy lodged in my
father’s right arm. He returned the shot,
but found it impossible to reload. He then
ran down the bank of the creek, and just
before him one of the brethren, in ascending
the opposite bank, was shot down. He
stepped under some lumber leaning against
the bank, which afforded very little if any
protection, but, in answer to prayer, their
eyes were blinded, and, although they looked
directly at him, yet apparently, did not see
him, passed on, declaring with an oath that
not another Mormon was to be seen. He
remained there until all was silent, then ven-
tured forth to witness the dreadful scene of
the massacre.
	In the shop lay the lifeless body of the
son of Warren Smith with his brains beat-
en out with the breech of a gun, and an-
other of the same family with his thigh
torn entirely away and apparently mortally
wounded. A little further on an aged man,
Father McBride, lay weltering in his gore.
It was not enough to shoot him down, but
the murderers had found an old scythe with
which they had mangled that venerable head
in a most horrible and sickening manner.
A young woman was also found behind a
huge log, where she had fallen in a fainting
condition, with a wound in one of her hands,
and several bullet holes through her cloth-
ing. A volley had lodged in the log. If a
man had on a good coat or a pair of good
boots they were stripped from their bodies
in a most brutal and inhuman manner, while
the victims were in the agonies of death.
My father aided in dressing the wounds of
those worse off than himself, and to bury
the dead as best he could with his left hand.
His own arm was not cared for or scarcely
thought of in the midst of the terrible suf-
fering of others, until it was in danger of
mortifying. Besides, the country was in
such a state of excitement that he had to
hide from place to place and came near
losing his arm. Two weeks, later he re-
joined his family, pale and emaciated. My
brother William had gone in search, hav-
ing learned that father’s life had been
spared. These two weeks were full of the
keenest anxiety.
	On the night of this fearful slaughter,
a young man came running through the
woods and deep snow, bare-headed, telling
us that an armed mob had surrounded
those at the mill, and were murdering men,
women and children, and would soon be up-
on us. This news caused a regular stam-
pede in our little company, as some of our
company had gone to the mill. Some of the
women took their little ones in their arms;
while others clung to their clothes; a loaf
of bread and a blanket or two were car-
ried by older members of the family, and
all rushed deeper into the snow and adja-
cent timber. Mother pleaded in vain for
all to remain in camp, as there would be
no possible safety in such a flight. The
cries of the famishing children would be-
tray them, besides they could have no fire
as this would attract the attention of the
mob. My mother and Sister Davis, (whose
husband had died en route, and whose loss
was deeply mourned by all) remained in
camp, called their children together, prayed
with them, soothed their fears and assured
them that the same God whose watchcare
had been over, us during our journey thus
far, was our friend still and would protect

[Column 2]
us. We went to bed feeling that we were
safe, and God was our friend; but when
the morning dawned and I looked into my
mother’s pale face, I was positive she had
not closed her eyes and felt, child as I was,
guilty that I had suffered myself to be
lulled to sleep by her magic words of com-
fort, while she had kept a vigilant watch
during that fearful night of keenest anxiety.
Those who left camp returned exhausted
and almost famished.
		(TO BE CONTINUED)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CONTENTS.
Portrait of New Presidency of the Relief
	Society..............................................	25
The New President and Counselors of the
	Relief Society..Annie Wells Cannon	25
The General Relief Society Conference...
	.........................Annie Wells Cannon	26
Amusements.............Amy Brown Lyman	27
Julia Ward Howe......................................	28
The Relief Society Presidency.................
	.........................Annie Wells Cannon	29
Amusements.................Annie Kay Hardy	30
Relief Society Stake Reports:—North San-
	pete—St. Joseph—Autobiography...	30
Lucy Walker Kimball...............................	31
Resolutions of Respect.............................	32
A Short Sketch of a Noble Woman
	...........................Hattie J. Higginson	32
Obituary...................................................	32
Editorial—Extremes in Dress..................	28
Poetry—A Prayer..James Whitcomb Riley	25
		Some Day......E. A. Brininstool	26
		The Isle of Long Ago...............
			...........Benjamin F. Taylor	27
		A Loving Tribute..Nellie Beecraft	32


SOME DAY.
Some day we’re going to wander, you and I,
	Back, back to pleasant paths we used to know,
And welcome once again with tear-dimmed eyes
	The old days of the happy Long Ago.
And O, the joy with which the heart will glow.
	As we clasp hands with friends so long unseen;
And meet again the ones we cherish so,
	Whose faces flash from Recollection’s sereen.
Will see them smile, as in the old, old way,
	Some day, dear heart, some day.
Some day we’re going back for one brief view,
	To whe're the old familiar homestead stands,
And there the joys of youth we will renew,	
	Caressed and loved again by gentle hands.
	We’ll wander, with a glad and joyous heart,
And bind anew the lost or broken strands
	Of Memory, which Time has torn apart—
O’er blossomed fields of youth again we’ll stray,
	Some day, dear heart, some day.
Some day we’ll know the mother-love again
	Which we have missed, mayhap, for dreary
		years;
We’ll smooth the wrinkled brow and cheek, and
		then,
	All tenderly, we’ll wipe away the tears.
Then once again bereft of doubts and fears
	We’ll lay our head on mother’s gentle breast,
And hear the songs of childhood in our ears,
	As in the days she packed us to our rest,
And at her knee, our childhood prayer we’ll pray;
	Some day, dear heart, some day.
						—E.A. Brininstool.


A SHORT SKETCH OF A NOBLE
				WOMAN.
	Who Died July 6, 1910,, at Hatch, Idaho.
	Christina Young Higginson was born in
Scotland, July 31, 1844 was the daughter of
Nairn Young and Margaret Adams. Her par-
ents died when she was very young, leaving
her in the care of her grandmother, who also
died when she was thirteen years of age. Her
parents were members of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and she grew up
a firm believer in all the principles of the Gos-
pel. When she was eighteen years old she left
her native land and all that was dear to her,
and came to Utah to cast her lot with the
people of her faith. She left Scotland without
purse or scrip, for the President of the branch
told her if she had faith she could go to Zion.
She left Scotland in the spring of ’63, reaching
Salt Lake City in September of the same year,
and soon after was married to Wm. T. Higgin-
son. She was the mother of eight children,
five boys and three girls, two of the girls hav-
ing gone before her to Home above. Her
youngest son was in the mission field, and he
did not reach home in time to see his mother
alive, but has since gone back to finish his mis-
sion. She also leaves a blind son. She was a
true, faithful Latter-day Saint, and was ever
ready to defend the Faith. She filled many po-
sitions of trust in the Church and was president
of the Relief Society at the time of her death.


She held that position for 25 years and was
loved by all associated with her, and all feel her
loss deeply, for she was like a mother to all in
the ward and for miles around. She has been
like a ministering angel to the sick and suf-
fering and was ever ready to lend a helping
hand in distress. She was very successful as a
midwife, having acted in that capacity for 27
years. Her life has been a busy one till the
close. She was of a cheerful disposition, al-
ways had a word of cheer and comfort for
those in sorrow. She was a born poet and
many have been cheered by the products of
her gifted pen. She was large-hearted and
brave and the soul of honor. I can speak from
experience for we have been companions for
over 37 years and have shared each other’s joys
and sorrows. I ever found her to be true as
steel; our love for each other was steadfast
and true, and I feel that even death cannot
separate us. We are parted for a little while,
but in the great hereafter I know we will meet
and still love each other. She has gone but
her good works will follow her.
	She has earned her rest.
	She leaves an aged husband and six loving
children and thirty grandchildren to mourn her
loss. Her funeral was well attended, friends
coming from far and near bringing flowers to
strew on her casket. Among them was a beau-
tiful wreath presented by the Hatch Relief So-
ciety in token of their love and esteem for their
beloved President.
					Hattie J. Higginson.
	Hatch, Bannock Co.


OBITUARY.
	Died at Basalt, Idaho, at the home of her
daughter, Mrs. Martha Jane Johnson, beloved
wife of Seth Johnson of Cannonville, Utah. She
was the daughter of the late Anthony J. and
Martha J. Stratton, and was born March 30,
1848, in Iowa. She was married to Seth John-
son on Oct. 10th, 1865, and was the mother of
eleven children; eight survive her. She was a
devoted wife and mother, and knew no selfish-
ness. She was an earnest worker in the Relief
Society, Sunday School and Primary Associa-
tion. She was always ready to assist the sick,
and help the needy, and was heloved by all who
knew her. She was interred in the Basalt Cem-
etery.—Com.


Mrs. Margaret E. Sangster, in the Wom-
an’s Home Companion for July, comes out
for woman suffrage. Mrs. Sangster has
always been an “Anti,” but she is now con-
verted, and she gives her reasons for her
change of belief.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


<Elizabeth Esklund>
									Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1910					No. 5.


CONTENTS.
Lucy Walker Kimball........................................	33
Relief Society Reports......................................34, 38
Relief Society Socials........................................	35
Notes and News..........................................35, 35, 40
Report of the National Woman’s Relief Society	37
Editorial:—Birthday Anniversary.....................	36
	Thanksgiving............................................	36
	“Uphold the Right”...................................	36
	A Delightful Banquet................................	37
Poetry:—The Old Songs.........L. M. Hewlings	33
	Recompense....................Hattie C. Jensen	35
	Julia Ward Howe............Ruth B. Chenery	37
	Past and Future.........................................
		...............Marian Adams Gudmunsen	40


THE OLD SONGS.
	[In reply to the question, “Do you sing those
sweet old songs now you sung in days “Lang
Syne?”]
	Nay, I canna’ sing the old songs,
		You loved so well to hear;
	Sung oft in happy days how gone,
		When love and life were dear.
	Those charming days of “Auld Lang Syne.”
		Woven with sunshine round,—
	Adown the corridors of time,
		Now but in fancy found.
	Nay, I canna’ sing the old songs,
		There comes a rush of tears,
	And my voice fails to reach the notes
		Soar’d o’er in bygone years.
	I may not touch a broken lute,
		Nor strike a jangled string,
	Nor strive with tones forever mute,
		Those dear old songs to sing.
	My harp is on the willows hung;
		Its strains of music o’er,
	Those dear old songs remain unsung,
		That oft thrilled hearts of yore.
	“Sweet highland Mary”—“Bonnie doon,”—
		“Ben Bolt”—and Nelly Bly,”—
	“Raking the hay in merrie June,”—
		And “Comin’ thro’ the rye.”
	“O thre’s ne’er made sic’ anither,”—
		“Annie Laurie,”—“Ivy green,”—
	“Sweet Home”—“The last rose of sum-
			mer”—
		“Bonnie blue-eyed Kathleen,”—
	“Kate Mavourneen,”—“Rory o’Moore,”—
		“Jessie flower o’ Dumblane,”—
	“Young Mary across the moor,”—
		“When shall we meet again,”—
	“Old oaken bucket,”—“Lochinvar,”—
		“Bide ye darlent, wi’ me,”—
	“Pledged to union in peace or war,”—
		“Land of the brave and free,”—
	*“Now launch the boat upon the wave,”—
		“Do they miss me at home?”—
	“Here’s health bonnie Scotland to thee,”—
		“Westward our footsteps roam.”
	These are some of the old songs,
		Twined in a wreath for you;
	Souvenir of days “Lang Syne,”
		With life’s bright roseate hue.
	They cheer my heart like summer ram,
		As I their names recall,
	I seem to hear each echoed strain,-
		Now blending with them all.
					—L. M. Hewlings.
	Footnote.—This poem is re-published from
Volume 25 of the Woman’s Exponent, No. 20,
April 15, 1897. The writer is long since dead,
but her writings still live and her name is thus
perpetuated.—E. B. W.

	*Greek Emigrants’ Song.


[Column 1]
	LUCY WALKER KIMBALL.
		(Autobiography.)
	Early next morning a fine looking young
officer rode into camp and said he had come
as a friend to save us from the fate of those
at the mill. He referred to the dreadful
scene with words of sympathy and regret;
said he was forced to join the military to
save his own life, but had done and would
do all in his power to save the oppressed. If
we would follow him he would lead us to
a place of safety in a friendly neighbor-
hood, where he would find shelter from the
cold storms of winter. We followed him
and there was where my father found us.
James Flanagan, the young misionary who
died with smallpox in England in 1848, was
one of our company. He was an exem-
plary young man, in fact an exception
among men. His zeal for the cause of truth
was unexcelled.
	We left the State of Missouri in 1838;
went with the Saints to Quincy, Illinois,
and to Nauvoo in 1841.
	My father performed two missions to the
Eastern States, emigrated with the Church
in 1846 to Council Bluffs, and was appoint-
ed president of a branch of the Church in
that locality. In 1850, he came to Utah and
settled in Farmington, Davis County, where
after many years of suffering, caused by the
hardships he had endured, he passed away
October 18, 1869, aged seventy-five years,
five months and eight days. Thus ended
the life of one whose great grandfather
came from Scotland and was one of the first
settlers in Connecticut. His grandfather,
Jos. Walker, was born in Connecticut, town
of Woodbury. His wife’s name was Eliza-
beth. They had five sons and several daugh-
ters. The sons’ names were as follows:
Joseph, Simeon, Caleb, Timothy and Reu-
ben. The names of the daughters I do not
know. He subsequently moved to Peacham,
Caledonia County, Vermont. He was over
ninety-five years of age. His wife died at
ninety. His father, Simeon Walker, was
born in Connecticut, town of Woodbury,
and in the Revolutionary war served his
country faithfully, being severely wounded
by a cannon ball in the thigh, which pro-
duced lameness during life. I fancy I see
him now as he comes down the hill from
Peacham bowed with the infirmities of age
and hardship, leaning on his staff. He takes
me on his knee and tells me the story of the
war; how he became lame; how bravely
they fought for freedom; “Liberty or death”
was the watchword. My grandfather was
one of the first settlers in Peacham. There
they were compelled to stand guard to pre-
vent being kidnapped by the Tories. After
the Tories were subdued he made a farm,
married Mary, daughter of Reuben and
Beulah Miner, and had a family of nine
children, namely, Solomon, Simeon, Abel,
John, Charles, Ruth, Clarinda, Mary and
Elizabeth.
	William Holmes my grandfather, on my
mother’s side, was born January 15, 1770,
in Kingston, Plymouth County, Massachu-

[Column 2]
setts; Lydia Adams, his wife, was born same
town, county and state.
	Lydia Holmes, my mother, was an only
daughter, almost an idol in the home where
there were seven sons. There was great
grief in the hearts of, her family and friends
when she received the gospel and came west.
Their sorrow knew no bounds when they
received news of her death, which occurred
January 18, 1842, at Nauvoo, Hancock
County, Illinois. I will state here, however,
that my father and second brother, Lorin,
came to Nauvoo in the spring of 1840, to
attend conference and secure a home. Fath-
er concluded to leave Lorin with the Proph-
et until harvest, with the understanding that
he should then return and help him through
harvesting; but when the time came, the
Prophet told him to write to father to hire
some one in his stead and at his expense, as
he could not part with him. In the spring
of ’41 father took his family to Nauvoo.
My brother met us with an invitation to
dinner, which we gladly accepted and were
introduced to the Prophet and his wife Em-
ma, and the dear children, who in after years
I learned to love as my own brothers, and
Julia, an adopted daughter, as my sister.
During the summer mother was taken with
chills and fever. At length one after an-
other of the children were attacked with
the same disease until all were in a help-
less condition. Mother was invited to spend
a few days at the Prophet’s house, they
thinking a change would benefit her. But
she could not be content away from her
afflicted family. At her earnest solicitation
they sent her home to her family, by plac-
ing a bed in a sleigh, as the summer had
passed and it was now good sleighing, cov-
ered her closely with blankets and, besides,
sent many comforts to those at home, as
they had often done during her stay.
	My mother lingered until January, ’42,
then passed away. Calling her children
around her bed she bore a faithful testi-
mony as to her convictions that Joseph
Smith was a Prophet of God, and that
through him the Gospel of the Son of God
had been restored in its fulness, whereby
we might return into the presence of the
Father; exhorted her children to never de-
part from the truth, but to live so that she
might meet them in that world where there
would be no more sorrow, no more suffer-
ing, no more tears of anguish at pronounc-
ing the sad word goodbye. She then closed
her eyes and her sweet spirit passed away,
leaving a beautiful smile on her dear face.
It did not seem to us that it was possible
she was dead, but only in a sweet sleep.
When at length we were forced to believe
she would never speak to us again we were
in the depths of despair. Ten motherless
children! And such a mother! The young-
est was not yet two years old. What were
we to do?
	The Prophet came to our rescue. He
said: “If you remain here, Brother Walk-
er, you will soon follow your wife. You
must have a change of scene, a change of


[Column 1]
elemate. You have just such a family as
I could love. My house shall be their home.
I will adopt them as my own. For the
present I would advise you to sell your ef-
fects, place the little ones with some kind
friends, and the four eldest shall come to
my house and be received and treated as
my own children, and if I find the others
are not content or not treated right, I will
bring them home and keep them, until you
return.” I wrung my hands in the agony
of despair at the thought of our being brok-
en up as a family, and being separated from
the loved ones. “But,” said the Prophet,
“my home shall be your home, eternally
yours.” My father sought to comfort us by
saying two years would soon pass away,
then we might be together again. Soon af-
ter he left, my sister Lydia, aged eight
years and eleven months, was attacked with
brain fever. We had visited her several
times and found that all that was done did
not relieve her sufferings and when we told
the Prophet how very sick she was he told
the boys to put a bed in the carriage and he
went with them. Told the family that they
must excuse him but he was under the
greatest obligation to look after their wel-
fare and had come to take her to his own
house where he could see to her himself.
He took her in his arms from the carriage
and baptized her in the Mississippi River;
but in a few days she too passed away.
Everything that could be done was done.
But she was to join her dear mother in the
spirit world and we were left more lonely
than before. Here allow me to say that our
own father and mother could scarcely have
done more or manifested greater solici-
tude for her recovery than did the Prophet
and his wife Emma. They watched with
us by her bedside and when all was over ac-
companied us to her last resting place be-
side her mother. One after another were
brought home until all the younger mem-
bers of the family were there except the
baby. Judge Adams and wife, of Spring-
field, Ill., came to Nauvoo and desired one
of the girls to live with them. We reluc-
tantly consented for sister Jane to return
with them, where she had a pleasant home
until after their death, when she returned to
Nauvoo. My brother William married Miss
Olive Hovey Farr, in the fall of 1843. They
boarded at the Mansion six months then
went to housekeeping and took the children
with him. I begged the privilege of going
with them. I thought it too great a task for
his wife to assume so great a responsibility.
The Prophet and his wife introduced us as
their sons and daughters. Every privilege
was accorded us in the home. Every pleas-
ure within reach was ours. He often re-
ferred to Brother Lorin as his “Edwin.”
He was indeed his confidential and trusted
friend. He was ever by his side; arm in arm
they walked and conversed freely on various
subjects. He was with him when he was
arrested at Dixon by Wilson and Reynolds,
who were determined to take him down the
river into Missouri but were foiled in this
attempt. It was in this case “Uncle Billy”
Rogers, as he was familiarly called, made
himself conspicuous in his defense, declared
with an oath that they could not come there
and kidnap a man and take him away in that
manner. Said he would be damned if Smith
would not have fair play. They were forced
to take him through the state by way of
Nauvoo. Lorin hurried on home, brought

[Column 2]
his favorite horse Charley, and met him on
foot, weary and covered with dust. He
warmly embraced him, mounted his horse,
and rode into Nauvoo. As they drew near
the city the people turned out en masse to
greet him. Brother Lorin went with him
to Springfield to attend his trial and had the
exquisite pleasure of seeing him acquitted.
	At the time he crossed the river and was
actively making arrangements to go beyond
the Rocky Mountains, he said, “I have the
promise of life for five years if I listen to
the voice of the spirit.” But when Emma
and some of his brethren besought him to
return, he said, “If my life is worth nothing
to you it is worth nothing to me.’ He well
knew it was in the programme that he must
sacrifice his life for the principles God had
revealed through him. Death had no terrors
for him although life was dear. I have often
heard him say he expected to seal his testi-
mony with his blood. He anticipated great
joy in meeting his parents and friends be-
yond the grave. He believed that as soon
as the spirit left the body we were shaking
hands with and greeting our friends.”
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALBERTA STAKE.
	A special conference of the Alberta Stake
Relief Society convened in the Cardston As-
sembly hall, Sisters Ida S. Dusenberry and
Amy Lyman of the General Board, Salt
Lake City, being present.
	Stake President Mary J. Hinman pre-
sided. After the usual opening exercises,
Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman welcomed all
who had met together, felt the Lord was
mindful of us as a people. Felt pleased with
the presence of the sisters from Salt Lake.
Sister Amy Lyman addressed the meeting.
Had been much interested in listening to the
minutes of the previous conference, and also
with the lecture given on Amusements for
Our Growing Boys and Girls. Gave an in-
teresting talk on the same subject. Repeated
a saying of Mrs. Stetson, a noted American
lady, who once said that women must have
something to do to take up their time and
energies or they would be apt to gossip.
She had taken up Relief Society work re-
cently and felt it the most beautiful in all the
world. Said the good to be gained from
this work is not all in doing good to others,
but it is a great benefit to the individual.
She had seen and appreciated our outlines,
felt that current events would be a good
subject to add to our program, it will keep
us in touch with the news of the world.
	Sister Sarah Easthope of Mt. View, aged
seventy-five years, very beautifully sang a
solo entitled, “The Daughters of Zion.”
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry of the Gen-
eral Society addressed the meeting. Said
she had enjoyed very much listening to
the song of our aged lady. Spoke of her
kindergarten work and of the enjoyment
she has in that work. Referred to the in-
fluence mothers and teachers have on the
minds of their children. Parents must listen
to the childish talk of their little ones, and
sympathize with their confidences, if they
would claim the same privilege later in their
lives. Told the story of the temptation and
the gradual downfall of a most beautiful
young girl, whom she had recently seen in
death. Warned fathers and mothers against

[Column 2]
allowing their boys and girls to go away
from home without a proper person to
accompany them. Keep them from tempta-
tion, and you will never be obliged to draw
them back; children’s lives are affected more
by the influence of parents than by what is
said to them. Example goes much farther
than words. Spoke of a number of interest-
ing things she had seen and heard in the
Juvenile court in Ogden; and of the soul
hunger of boys and girls for love and sym-
pathy; felt thankful for the struggles of this
life, as well as the blessings. Told the story
of the woman with the cross. Said to each
one of us is given an individuality that no
other can assume. It is God-given and
given to each of us to enable us to perform
our mission in life.
	Miss Ida Archibald rendered a solo enti-
tled “Love divine.”
	President Edward J. Wood spoke very
highly of those of the sisters who have trav-
eled so far from their ranches and towns to
attend this special conference, after having
attended their regular conference but a few
days ago, and mentioned our beloved Sister
Rhoda Hinman having been baptized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. “A good Relief So-
ciety is a great support to the bishopric of
any town, or ward. May we never tire in
having a constant watch-care over our chil-
dren. Let us live a part of their lives for
the future of this work depends upon the
kind of boys and girls we have today. Sister
Millie Matkin gave a recitation entitled,
“The Martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his Brother Hyrum.”
	President Mary J. Hinman felt to thank
the brethren and sisters for their presence
today appreciated very much the presence of
our visiting sisters from headquarters, who
have given us what we needed.
	Sister Nellie Pitcher felt the spirit of
blessing resting upon her and proceeded to
bless the sisters and congregation through
the gift of tongues. The interpretation was
given by Missionary Elizabeth Hammer.
	Closed by singing, “Do what is right.”
Benediction by Elder J. A. Hammer.
		JANE W. BATES, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The first legislation resulting from the
adoption of the woman suffrage amendment
to the Washington Constitution, was
brought up six days after the election, when
a bill was introduced in the City Council of
Seattle to forbid smoking in polling places
at general or special elections.
	The purpose of the proposed ordinance,
we are told, is to make conditions about the
election booths more attractive to women
who may wish to vote, or who may preside
as election officials.
	When Massachusetts granted school suf-
frage to women, in 1879, an ordinance was
straightway passed in Boston, forbidding
smoking at the polls. Far from destroying
chivalry, equal suffrage promotes it.—
Woman’s Journal, A. S. B.
	The determination of certain heads of de-
partments at Washington to employ only
men stenographers is a matter not likely
to escape the attention of the woman suf-
fragists, or to be forgotten by them when
they attain power in politics,—Buffalo
Courier.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RECOMPENSE.
I care not when night comes on
	Or how the storm may rage,
If God my Light in darkness is;
	His peace my soul engage.
		He will be there!
I care not when sorrows come
	And grief to rend my soul—
If He my comfort e’er will be,
	And keep me in His fold.
		My cross He’ll bear!
I care not when sickness racks
	And fills my days with pain.
If He with hope will buoy me up
	Perchance of health again,
		His will to do.
But if His wisdom rules it so,
	My chastening shall extend—
I’ll love and trust Him thro’ it all
	And to His will I’ll bend.
		O keep me true!
I care not when death draws near
	If only I can know
His hand will safelv guide me o’er
	And keep me while I go.
		He will sustain!
And when at last, my journey o’er
	I’m safe from pain and sin,
I care not, if I can be
	Beside Him in Eternity;
		My God my King!
				—Hattie C. Jensen.


RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS.
	On Saturday, October 29th, 1910, the
Halifax Branch Relief Society held their an-
nual sale of work. An excellent tea was
provided, also a splendid program, which
was very ably rendered. The room was
crowded, about one hundred and fifty saints
and friends being present. The sum of about
£10 was realized, which will be used to re-
lieve the wants of the sick and needy in the
branch.
	The Relief Society of the Belfast branch
(Irish conference) gave a party at the Meet-
ing Hall, 40 Donegal Street, on Hallowe’en.
The elders were invited to be present. All
had a splendid time. An impromptu pro-
gram was rendered, after which delicious re-
freshments were served, conspicuous among
which was a surprise pie, made of cold pota-
toes and mustard, furnished by the elders.
Searchers for curious facial expressions, had
they been present, would have been amply
rewarded for their attendance.
	On Saturday evening, October 29th, 1910,
a very successful and entertaining social was
held at the Latter-day Saints’ Chapel, Ne-
ville Street, Middleton Road, Oldham (Man-
chester conference), for the purpose of pro-
curing means with which to purchase forms
for the meeting-room. It was held jointly
by the Manchester and Old ham branches
respectively. There were about one hundred
and fifty saints and friends present, the net
proceeds being £2 5s. 9d. There were many
excellent numbers on the program, each per-
son rendering the part in a pleasing and
satisfactory manner. All present expressed
themselves as having enjoyed the program
exceedingly.
	On Saturday, October 29th, 1910, was
witnessed the largest gathering of its kind
ever held by the members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
Keighley branch. The occasion was a con-
cert prepared by the elders, and a pie sup-
per kindly given by Sister Elijah Midgley
of the Relief Society. The hall was filled to


overflowing with saints and investigators,
many of whom were at an assembyl of the
Latter-day Saints for the first time. All
seemed highly satisfied, and many expressed
a desire to come again. The proceeds, £1
18s., will be applied on our piano account.
	The Relief Society of the Gainsboro
branch (Hull conference) gave a very nice
social on November 7th, 1910, at Vamplews
Hall. More than one hundred saints and
friends were present. Several of the friends
donated their services free, both with the
program and also with accommodations. Re-
freshments were served and a very enjoyable
time had, and great credit is due those who
had the undertaking in hand, for it was a
decided success. The money received will
be used to buy material for the Relief So-
ciety.—Millennial Star.


HOW THE VOTE WAS WON.
	STATE OF WASHINGTON.
	Miss Adella M. Parker writes from Seat-
tle, Nov. 9, to the Woman’s Journal, Bos-
ton.
	“It was a great victory.
	“The women at the polls were wonder-
fully effective. Many young women, many
middle-aged women and white-haired grand-
mothers, too, stood for hours handing out
the little reminders. One was a girl of 13,
and one a grandmother in a wheeled chair,
the mother of a former councilman.
	“It rained our gentle, but very insistent
kind of rain; and the men were so solicitous!
They kept dragging us off to get our feet
warm, or trying to, or bringing us chairs to
sit in, or offering to hand out our ballots
while we took a rest.
	“One woman would not go into the poll-
ing place as invited, because it was against
the law, but persisted, in spite of all the ap-
peals of the men, in standing in the rain till
she was soaked; and that precinct went five
to one for suffrage.
	“Another young woman had a piece of
carpet fetched for her by a voter for her to
stand on. The men were everything to be
desired, real Westerners, shall I say? and
they voted for us two to one, all over the
State.
	“Women would not leave their places un-
til relieved, even for lunch, for fear of ’los-
ing a vote.’ The whole thing appealed to
the men irresistibly. It was the first really
tangible evidence they had had of the strong
desire to vote on the part of the women,—
an ocular demonstration—and it told in the
count.
	“Everybody seems positively happy. No
women but are glad. Even those few who
have coquetted with anti-suffrage ideas are
now inquiring if they may vote for presi-
dent, and the men are all smiling blandly, as
if they had all voted the same way.
	“The newspapers stood by us nobly. The
press of the whole State has helped us; and
I shall always feel personally grateful to
Mrs. Catt and Alice Stone Blackwell for
their generous gifts of money, and to Mar-
tha Gruening and Mrs. Minnie J. Reynolds
for their invaluable personal aid, and to the
dear Woman’s Journal for the great work it
has done helping to educate the press of the
State. Those Journals have been precious,
every one of them, and they have helped out
our ‘propaganda by literature’ wonderfully.

[Column 2]
	“We have won in a clean, educational
campaign, and the men feel as happy about
it as we do, realizing that they have done a
just and gracious thing, and that they have
simply been expected to do it, as soon as it
was drawn to their attention.
	“We are receiving praise from all quar-
ters for the kind of campaign we put up—
no personalities, no boasting of what we
would do, no promises, no meddling with
other issues, just ‘Votes for Women,’
straight through, because it is just and rea-
sonable, and because it has everywhere been
found expedient.
	“In some polling places women were given
places, and in some our little ‘Don’t forget
to vote for the Amendments’ were tacked
up on the wall.
	“We had a difference of opinion as to just
what was the best reminder, so had three
kinds printed. I enclose them.
	“The university precinct went in favor of
suffrage three and a half to one; the City
Hall precinct, two to one; one precinct,
twenty to one—all in Seattle.”


The Swedish Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion is making elaborate preparations for
lavish entertainment of the International
Congress to be held in Stockholm, June 12
to 17, 1911.
	The Scandinavian countries lie somewhat
outside the usual line of tourist travel, but
no countries in Europe repay one more gen-
erously for a visit than do these picturesque
northern lands. Many a traveler has pro-
nounced Stockholm the most beautiful cap-
tal in Europe, and one more modest de-
clares that, if this is not true, it at least oc-
cupies the finest position of any European
capital city. It is built on islands where the
waters of the Maren, often called “The Lake
of a Thousand Isles,” meet those of the
Baltic, and form a broad, deep bay, studded
with innumerable forest clad, rocky islets.
It is rare that scenery so near the busy cen-
tre of life retains its untouched freshness as
is true of the surroundings of Stockholm.
	Max Nordau in writing of Stockholm de-
clares that “the Almighty must have select-
ed a section of Scottish lake scenery, a por-
tion of the sea coast of Naples, a few of the
islands of Hyeres, some granite hill-tops
from the Ural chain, and then, shaking them
well together in a large caldron, poured the
mixture out upon the banks of the bay of
the Baltic, where they form the capital of
the kingdom of Sweden and bear the name
of Stockholm.”—C. C. C. Woman’s Jour
nal.


NOTES AND NFWS.
	A crowded drawing room meeting was
held by Lady Brassey on Tuesday, to hear
Mrs. Parkhurst speak on woman suffrage,
Lord Brassey being in the chair. The fol-
lowing were present: The Duchess of Marl-
borough, Countess Torby, Prince and Prin-
cess Munster, Lady Wemyss, Lord and
Lady Wolverton, Lady Essex, Lady Tweed-
dale, Lord and Lady Richard Cavendish, the
Dowager Lady Arran, Sir Donald Mac-
kenzie Wallace, the Hon. Mrs. Bernard Mal-
let, Major the Hon. and Mrs. Sackville
West, Lady Acheson and Colonel Gathorne-
Hardy.—London Times.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	NOVEMBER, 1910


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	The birthday anniversary of the Presi-
dent of the Church of Latter-day Saints,
which occurred on Sunday, November 13,
was kept very quietly in the family, and
some friends of the President who are fa-
miliar in the home at the Bee Hive, called
to pay their respects and congratulate the
President, wishing him every blessing life
can offer to one so dear to the hearts of the
people, who sustain him as Prophet, Seer
and Revelator, and who in the bonds of
brotherly and sisterly love hold him in that
good fellowship that knows no limit.
	That President Smith is beloved by this
people among whom his life has been spent
in loving service, needs no individual testi-
mony. Very little, comparatively speaking,
has ever been said concerning the birthday
anniversary of President Joseph F. Smith,
and it is high time the children of this peo-
ple were informed of the birthday, that they
may observe and keep in mind this memor-
able day, and do honor to the great leader,
who is using all his time, energy, and talents
for the furtherance of the work of the Lord,
in which he has been engaged all his life
long from earliest childhood, as every one
knows who is acquainted with Church his-
tory.
	When a very little boy, previous to his
father’s martyrdom, he was almost con-
stantly near his beloved father, and still re-
members, although so very young, many
stirring incidents in which his father took
part on memorable occasions that are thrill-
ing with interest, relating to the times when
this people were passing what might be
termed a turning point in the lives and
events of the most remarkable religious per-
secution in the history of any people in
America.
	It is safe to say that no other President
since the Prophet Joseph Smith has such a 
unique personality and a life so rich in that
which constitutes strength of character, wis-
dom and knowledge of affairs within and
without the Church, as our present Prophet
Seer and Revelator.
	Joseph F. Smith is the only President
born in the Church. This in itself is a sig-
nificant fact, cradled in Mormonism, inher-
iting it pre-natally, fed and nurtured with
the wisdom that comes through obedience 
to the word of the Lord, from the very first.
Coming to his own at a time when extra-

[Column 2]
ordinary events were transpiring; full of
zeal in the cause of truth and righteousness,
and possessed of that indomitable courage
that makes for progress and the establish-
ment of monuments of renown, to stand as
waymarks to the latest generations of time,
that all who follow him may point to with
pride, for they herald forth the dawn of
peace and good will to all mankind, and re-
late to a period of time when the watchword
of the people was significant of the greatest
epochs of the last days, the fulness of times,
when all things are to be gathered into one
to prepare for the coming of the Messiah.
	The children are taught to reverence
Mother Lucy Smith as the mother of the
greatest prophet of this dispensation; added
to this they should be taught that Mother
Lucy Smith is the grandmother of the pres-
ent Prophet, Joseph F. Smith, and by no
means should they be allowed to forget the
mother of Joseph F. Smith, our present
Prophet—Mary Fielding Smith, who en-
dured toil, privation, and hardship, and
whose courage and heroism was equal to
that of any man of her time, or to the great
women of the heroic past.
	Teach his history  to the children of our 
own time.


[Column 1]
		THANKSGIVING.
	Thanksgiving in November dates back
to an early period in the history of Amer-
ca. The earliest one known on this side of
the Atlantic was appointed by William
Bradford, Governor of Plymouth, in 1621,
and history tells us that the great old Gov-
ernor issued the mandate in form: “Through
virtue of vested power ye shall gather with
one accord and hold in the month of No-
vember Thanksgiving unto the Lord.”
	If any people have reason to offer thanks-
giving to the Lord this people gathered here
in these mountain vales had good reason on
the day set apart this year. 
	Not that we as a community had every-
thing we wanted, but we had very recently
gained a victory that was most gratifying
to a large number of people and though
the utmost quiet was observed outwardly,
there was rejoicing more or less in the hearts
of those that knew what it meant to the vi-
cinity of Salt Lake.
	In this matter women may be counted as
having stood courageously for the right and
rights of the ballot in their hands, and
thankful, indeed, are the women of Utah of
whatever creed or party that they have equal
suffrage, and a voice in matters pertaining
to “life, liberty and the pursuit of happi-
ness.” And even if the women of this fair
state have not yet attained to all the rights
and privileges they are in reality entitled to,
they have the opportunity of getting educat-
ed in matters pertaining thereto, and by and
bye, for it is sure to come, they will be bet-
ter qualified to take the places assigned to
them in the gift of the people.
	Perhaps the reader may say, What has
this to do with Thanksgiving? and we an-
swer, Very much indeed! The women of
Utah, so far as the writer knows, have been
thankful for the suffrage ever since it was
accorded them through the state Constitu-
tion, and before, when the Territorial Legis-
lature granted it in February, 1870.
	When one considers the great efforts be-
ing made in the several states in this free
country, and the desperate struggles in for-

[Column 2]
eign lands, one need be exceedinly thankful
to those noble, generous men, who were
among the first to pave the way to equal
political and civic liberty to women without
discriminating; but this article is not a dis-
sertation on equality of sex or any other po-
litical question, but merely a few thanksgiv-
ing thoughts applicable to all men and
women who reverence a Supreme Being,
who holds in His hands the lives and des-
tinies of all nations, kindreds, tongues and
peoples.
	Thanksgiving is a day on which the needy,
the sick and the sorrowful should be remem-
bered with real substantial gifts, that would
fill their hearts with joy and gratitude, and
in no other way can people who have where-
with to give make an offering so acceptable
as thanksgiving to the Lord as by giving to
those in need of assistance, not waiting for
Christmas or some other festive occasion,
but with the true spirit of benevolence and
loving kindness, give of the means you have
so abundantly received from the Lord.
	“Kind words are more than coronets,”
So said one of the great poets, but through
the perfect system of charity under the
Church management of this people, the
Bishopric and the Relief Society, the needy
are seldom neglected, and never, we hope,
forgotten; though many are unwilling to
receive help when offered, yet there are in-
genious and delicate ways of bestowing help
that cannot possibly give offence.
	The Latter-day Saints have the greatest
reason for thanksgiving to the Lord for
His manifold blessings to them, and espe-
cially for their homes and habitations in
these mountain vales, and the freedom they
enjoy under the flag of their country, while
tyranny and oppression still exist among
many nations, against which they are as yet
struggling, and find no way of escape from
the intolerance.


“UPHOLD THE RIGHT.”
Though few may praise, or help, or heed us,
	Let us work on, with head, or heart, or 
		hand;
For that we know the future ages need us.
	And we must help our time, to take its
		stand.				—R. A. V.

	How many there are who complain and
grow discouraged on life’s journey, because
they do not get the help, the encourage-
ment they feel is needed in some good work
undertaken; and often we hear it said, Well,
we cannot get the support of the people in
this or that good work, and it is for the
public good; and we shall be compelled to
let it go—and so many good efforts made
have been cast aside—and those first deeply
interested have not had the courage needed
to pull through. What a blessing it is to
have great moral courage. We are as a 
people very proud of our loyalty to each
other, and, generally speaking, our people
have been able to stand together, and in this
course we are sure to gain ground, and often
overcome great obstacles, that oppose our
onward progress, but not always; now and
then some few get an idea that they know
better how things are going to turn than the
majority know, and instead of trusting to 
the people as a whole, get a small following
and are so confident they are right, and sure
of ultimate success, that they win to their
cause those who are unwary and easily per-
suaded, yielding to entreaty without mak-
ing themselves sure before hand.


It is good to know one is right, and there
are sure ways of knowing—there is always
“the still, small voice” within one’s own
breast—if one cultivates his conscience; 
the first whisperings, when one is in doubt
and at times when one is not in doubt—but
we were not proposing to analyze this sub-
ject, only it is quite apparent all Latter-
day Saints who are diligent in season and
out of season, desire to be on the right side
of all important questions, consequently 
when grave matters are pending it is ob-
viously a duty to be on the right side.
	Watch the signs of the times, weigh care-
fully the propositions made by those who di-
rect affairs for the city and state or the na-
tion, seek for wisdom from the Lord as well
as from the best sources of worldly knowl-
edge. All these things are waymarks, but 
one may have to pick and choose when
traveling on life’s journey as when travel-
ing over country, new and strange, where
there are cross-roads and by-paths, and
sometimes it transpires one has to decide for
himself which road will take him on the 
way to his “desired haven.” In such a case
one can turn back when he finds he has
gone the wrong way; that is fortunate--
but so on the journey of life—if one can
only see he or she has gone wrong; but
how hard it is sometimes “to see ourselves
as others see us.” And this is where great
moral courage is necessary, and true no-
bility of character is displayed—when one
is willing to right the mistake. How
many great ones have fallen, who might
have been “bright and shining lights” had
they been willing to retract, or turn back
after departing upon the wrong way, sim-
ply, perhaps, through an error in judgment,
or being over confident in certain measures
that confront the people and need radical
treatment in their opinion, but when the 
men and women are cautious, and do not
rush blindly into difficult places, but soberly
ponder when the time is ripe for action.
The old proverb, “Fools rush in where an-
gels dare not enter,” is applicable at times
when strenuous help is needed, but the man
who watches most carefully and solicitously
that which will be “the greatest good to the
largest number” is the one to lead; when a
ship is in danger, who gives the orders, the
man at the helm, who sees the danger, who
is in charge of the lives and safety of those
on board, his word is the signal--everyone
familiar with leadership knows that when 
dangers threaten there need be no hesitancy
about the methods of standing united in de-
fending the right for righteousness sake.
Let us hope and pray that hereafter, when
there is so much at stake the loyal people
may take the right course to obtain the vic-
tory—the triumph of right that means suc-
cess to those who have peopled the country
and made “the desert to blossom as the
rose.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A DELIGHTFUL BANQUET. 
	An enjoyable afternoon party was given
at the handsome home of Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph E. Hyde, in this city on Friday,
November 18, 1910, dinner served at 3 p m.
Only a dozen guests were invited. The
table was daintily arranged, and choice au-
tumn flowers added to the beauty and ar-
tistic appearnce of the sumptuous repast.
The guests were profuse in their praise of


the delicious viands, and the little party
presented a beautiful picture grouped as they
were, and their faces were a study to an
observer, really had there been a character
reader present, he might have had an object
lesson worth while.
	The hostess stated very graciously that
the guest of honor was Aunt Emmeline B.
Wells, and it was her party, but partly in
honor of her dear departed Aunt Mary Ann
Hyde, to whom she alluded most tenderly,
and she had greatly admired the genuine
friendship that united heart and hand these
two women, Mrs. Wells and Aunt Mary
Ann Hyde in days gone by.
	Toasts were expected of all the guests,
but it proved to be very informal and the
tone of the remarks made, became remi-
niscent and many beautiful tributes were
paid to the great women of the past.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose who had been
abroad some years, spoke interestingly of
her travels in Great Britain and on the con-
tinent, and later Elder C. W. Penrose and
the genial host arrived, and added a few
words of special interest, giving brilliant
touches to the more sombre conversation;
and altogether the affair proved to be an
intellectual feast most refreshing to those
present—really red-letter day. Mrs. Hyde
is a charming hostess and her cordial hos-
pitality knows no limit.


JULIA WARD HOWE.
How often, when she entered, did we rise
And stand in waiting hundreds till she passed
Serenely to her place, from whence she cast
Such gracious looks on all around, from eyes
Undimmed as yet by age, so kind, so wise;
That awe mixed with our love, and when at last
Her low voice broke the silence, hearts beat fast,
Stirred by the solemn words we hoard and prize!
O Sibyl-eyes, O eloquent white hair,
Ye helped the burning message find its goal
In our true breasts; for not in easeful age
Wast thou content to dwell; thy brooding care
Yearned over all, O mother of the soul
That thou hast wakened to its heritage.
						—Ruth B. Chenery.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
	By Emmeline B. Wells, President.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, Oct, 25, 1910.
Madame President, Officers and Members
		of the National Council of Women of
		the United States,
	DEAR FRIENDS: The Relief Society as it
was originally named was first organized in
Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17th, 1842, with
eighteen members, including the officers. Of
this select company, who met together on
that memorable day, 68 years ago, not one
is now living; the last surviving member was
our late President, Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith (who passed away September 20,
1910). Mrs. Smith was then a young
woman, nineteen years of age; she wit-
nessed every phase of the Society’s growth
from the very commencement, being one of
its founders, and lived to see it increase in
membership to over forty thousand, and
like a tree, its branches have spread abroad,
bearing fruit in many lands and among
many peoples.
	The object of the Society is really what
the name implies: relief from want, assist-
ance to the needy, relief from ignorance
through simple forms of helpfulness, charity
for all, of all creeds and races. Philan-

[Column 2]
thropic endeavors, temporal, spiritual, edu-
cational, and industrial, entering into every
department of home and of public life, from
those early years until the present time, as
far as the day and age admitted of woman’s
fitness and efforts for humanity.
	It would be quite impossible to tell in
one brief article of the many industrial lines
of work that have been undertaken in the
interest of woman’s advancement.
	The Society is so perfectly and system-
atically organized that it has been compar-
atively easy, to reach every individual mem-
ber when necessary in any important move-
ment for the public good.
	The Society consists of over 750 distinct
organizations, with executive officers in each
to transact business and plan work, and all
these are under one general head or depart-
ment, who are constantly in receipt of in-
formation and as it were in touch with every
phase of the work undertakne in each sep-
arate organization. One of the underlying
principles is to teach those women who need
assistance how to help themselves and to
give employment to the unemployed, when-
ever possible.
	Many lines of work have been undertaken
and carried on sucessfully, certainly there
have been failures, but never discourage-
ments, but in most cases “Try Again” has
been the motto.
	There are organized branches of this So-
ciety in more than twenty states in the
Union, in Canada and Mexico, in Great Brit-
tain and Ireland, the Netherlands, in Ger-
many and Switzerland, in Norway, Sweden
and Denmark, in Australia, New Zealand,
the Sandwich and Society Islands, and in
South Africa.
	The benefits resulting cannot be estimat-
ed: social, industrial, economic, educational,
in the best sense of the word. The training
of nurses in order to have skilled help in
charity cases, and as an employment for
young women and a preparation for moth-
erhood—a mother’s department in every dis-
tinct branch of the great whole, the gather-
ing of grain, and storing it against a time
of need—building of houses for Society pur-
poses, and such industries as silk culture
have been fostered, nurtured and maintained
and desirable results achieved.
	There is scarcely any enterprise undertak-
en by women that has not been helped by
this organization, which reaches into every
home and hamlet. Perhaps no other organ-
ization enters as fully into the domestic de-
partment of the realm of home life as does
the teaching and developing of the principles
embodied in the Relief Society.
	We feel this report is inadequate to the
subject and yet it covers the ground. One
of our mottoes in this work has always been
“Charity never faileth,” and it is the most
applicable to relief work of any phrase in the
English vocabulary.
	Since our last report to the National
Council, this Society has moved into its own
headquarters where also other woman’s or-
ganizations are located—the Y. L. M. I. A.,
which is auxiliary to the Council also, and
the officers will take great pleasure in re-
ceiving calls from the women from all parts
of the world, and especially the members and
friends of the National and International
Councils with which these two organizations
are affiliated.
	The most important and significant event
that has transpired since our last report is
the recent demise of our beloved and hon-


ored President, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
whose name has been inscribed on your roll
call of Presidents for the last nine years.
Her death occurred on Tuesday morning,
September 20, 1910, after an illness of three
months. Her name was known throughout
the world, and her beautiful and blameless
life stands as an example worthy of emula-
tion, and an incentive to all women in every
land to go and do likewise.
	Mrs. Smith was active and efficient in
many directions and had learned in her long
experience, the richest and best lessons of
wisdom from the open book of life itself.
	The best description that can be given of
this great woman in brief is portrayed in
the following verse:

			A PORTRAIT.
A queenly woman, statuesque and grand,
Regal in manner, courteous in command,
Of reverential presence, and her face
Radiantly fair, beaming with hope and grace,
Her vibrant life one long sweet symphony
Of duty, love and soulful harmony.
						—E. B. W.

	With greetings and congratulations from
the Woman’s Relief Society to the National
Council, and the earnest hope of a greater
future and larger fellowship and good will
and love and the promotion of all the lofty
principles for which the Council stands, we
are faithfully and loyally yours for every
righteous cause in the way of progress.
			Fraternally yours, etc.,
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PIONEER STAKE.
	Minutes of morning session of Pioneer
Stake Relief Society conference, held in the 
Stake Hall, October 28, 1910, President
Annie Wells Cannon presiding. Com-
menced by singing, “Come, Dearest Lord.”
Prayer by President Wm. McLachlan.
Singing, “Let us oft speak kind words.”
	Stake well represented and reported by
the President. The wards were all in a 
good condition, fully organized with a band
of sisters who were working for the benefit
of the people. It was reported that there
was not much sickness at present, but sev-
eral cases of needy whom the Relief So-
ciety were looking after. Several of the 
wards have appointed sisters to look after
the different departments of work.
	Sister Jacobs of Pleasant Green said that
she had noticed that the best workers they
had in Relief Society were the young moth-
ers, after they had once become interested;
and to get them acquainted with this work,
she had found that the best means was to 
personally invite these young women to the
meetings and give them something special
to do.
	The President reported that there was a
slight increase in the attendance and the
work progressing. 
	Solo, “One sweetly solemn thought,” by
Minnie Poulton.
	Counselor Claire L. Clawson spoke on
the “Testimony Meeting.” Commence on 
time and make metings interesting by oc-
casionally introducing music and reading. 
Invite young sisters to do something. Have
hymns selected before meeting time. Re-
lief Society to look after the Sacrament ta-

[Column 2]
ble, under the direction of bishopric also
the drapery of meeting houses for use of
funerals. Was pleased with reports of sis-
ters, and felt to encourage the Relief Soci-
ety workers. 
	Sister Romania B. Penrose of the Gen-
eral Board spoke of her labors in the Re-
lief Society while in Europe. Said that
these organizations were increasing and the
sisters were doing a good work, as through
them many doors are opened to our elders.
Relief Society also a great help to the mis-
sionaries in helping look after the poor. Six
to seven hundred women of England inter-
ested in Relief Society and are all united.
Urged the young women to learn nursing 
and how to care for the dead. Prayed that 
the Lord would bless the Relief Society
workers in the Pioneer Stake.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon of the Gen-
eral Board expressed her pleasure at being 
able to attend our conference. Encour-
aged the sisters to strive to go ahead and
not be content to stand still, said she knew 
that in times of sickness, a visit from some
of the Relief Society sisters was very help-
ful and through the faith that was mani-
fested, it was all that was needed to raise
up the afflicted. Thought that if we all had 
the desire, we could get to our meetings,
no matter where we lived.
	President A. W. Cannon said that she
was proud of Pioneer Stake Relief Soci-
ety; they were a noble band of sisters.
“We are made up of wage earners in Pio-
neer Stake, but we have a fine record in our
charity work. Told of the duties of moth-
ers to their children; and of the object in
preparing the present Outlines. Time is 
about up for our morning session, and we
hope that all will be here for the after-
noon meeting and that many more will at-
tend. Asked a blessing on all Relief Soci-
ety workers in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Closed by singing, “The Spirit of God.”
	Benediction by Sister Mary A. Hadley.
	Afternoon session opened by singing,
“Our Mountain Home so Dear.” Prayer by
Sister Bosina Lambert. Singing, “Jesus, I
my cross have taken,” by Primary children
from the Twenty-sixth Ward.
	The General and Stake Officers were pre-
sented and unanimously sustained.
	Sister Cannon greeted the sisters. Re-
ferred to the extremes of fashion and un-
becoming behavior among the young people
and felt it was the mother’s duty to see
that their young people do not overdress,
and to look after their conduct. “Sisters,
try not to burden yourselves with needless
work; be more moderate in dress and thus
 save time to spend with your children. En-
tertain them with stories from your own 
life, your parents and the Pioneers; and thus
make them acquainted with the history of
their ancestors.” Expressed the joy she
felt in working among the sisters of Relief 
Society.
	Sister Penrose said, “We can’t hear good
advice often enough. Glad to meet again
with the sisters. Relief Society sisters ac-
complishing a good work. Had been in the 
world, but no place like Zion. Churches in
the world are being depopulated. Spoke of
the different customs among the churches 
in Europe. “Many people of the world do 
not understand parts of the Bible; call
them mysteries. Through the Spirit of 
God these things are made clear to the Lat-
ter-day Saints. Mothers should be proud

[Column 3]
if they have sons carrying the Gospel to
the world. “Felt that Americans do not
rejoice enough for their liberty. Related
some experiences of our misionaries, where
they had been imprisoned and even banished
for the sake of their religion. Described
some of the places and scenes they had vis-
ited. Urged the sisters to do their duties
as Relief Society workers, and hoped that
the people would be united and not let our
enemies get control over our beautiful
homes here in the mountains.
	Counselor Louie P. Giauque had greatly
enjoyed the conference thus far. Felt it a 
pleasure to raise her voice in song and
prayer with her sisters. “Latter-day Saints
have no time to waste as there is work for
all.” Spoke on “The Sewing Meetings.”
Open by singing and prayer, and close with
prayer when possible. Commence at 2 p.m.
and sew perhaps until 5 o’clock, instead of 
a few working hard all day. Introduce a 
little music and reading in sewing meetings.
Sewing teachers prepare work for the
younger women who do not care for quilt-
ing or sewing carpet rags. “Prayed the
Lord would bless us in our work.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, General Pres-
ident said it was very beautiful to meet
on such a lovely day, and to see so many
present. Pleased to see President Mc-
Lachlan. Felt it an honor to be associated
with men who hold the Priesthood. Relief 
Society the first organization of women that
there is known anything about. This or-
ganization the mother of other organiza-
tions. Relief Society has done a wonderful
work among the women of the world. Re-
ferred to the sewing meeting and the good
that is there done for the poor in the way of
quilts and clothing. Felt that the people
should pray that they might do the right
thing pertaining to our government. In-
vited the sisters to visit the Relief Society
headquarters in the Bishop’s Building. Said
the last time she was here, President Bath-
sheba W. Smith was also present. Felt
that the Lord had spared the life of Sister
Smith to an advanced age so that she could
bear her beautiful testimony of the truth of 
this Gospel and of the Prophet Joseph 
Smith. There are only a few living now who
personally knew the Prophet and President
Brigham Young Sister Smith was anxious 
that the sisters keep up the old fashioned
ways in Relief Society; the teachers are the
backbone of this organization. Knew of sis-
ters who had visited their blocks as teachers
for forty years. Said she was sorry that 
she could not have been here this morning
to hear the reports of the wards. Had ex-
pected her counselors, Clarissa S. Williams
and Julina L. Smith to be present, but they
were detained on account of sickness. Urged
all to be faithful and introduce only those
things that are good and helpful; prayed the
Lord to bless us. 
	President Wm. McLachlan had enjoyed
the remarks of the sisters during this con-
ference. Bore testimony of the good work
of Sister Cannon and knew that her judg-
ment was good. Greatly enjoyed her visit-
ing with them at the ward conferences now
being held through the stake. Urged the 
sisters to bear their testimony to their chil-
dren. Felt to condemn the fashions among 
our people. “We do not need style if we
have the Spirit of the Gospel. Urged the
mothers to see that their girls are more mod-
est in their dress. Pleased with the work
the Relief Society sisters do among the sick


[Column 1]
and poor. “Better to give out a little more
means and do a little more work than let
some worthy soul go without. Do let us
call upon the Lord for His help; we cannot
do our whole duty without the help of God.”
Bore a strong testimony of the truthfulness
of this work. Said that it was his desire
to follow and stand by his leaders in all
things pertaining to our policies. Sister
Cannon announced that next Sunday would
be stake quarterly conference, and urged
the sisters to attend if possible. 
	Conference adjourned. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.”
	Benediction by Sister Adelia Hoagland. 
				LILLIE F. SPERRY, Secy.

			SEVIER STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference convened
at Richfield, June 28, 1910, at 10 a. m., Pres-
ident Christine W. Sorensen presiding.
	President C. Sorensen spoke of the busy
time our conference is held. It is dangerous
for sisters to drive teams; horses are afraid
of automobiles. I love Relief Society work;
we are united in the Stake Board, and in vis-
iting we are united with the different boards. 
Let us continue and improve. We have Sis-
ter Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the General
Board with us. 
	Dr. Gledhill gave a lecture. In addressing
mothers, I have chosen the subject, “The
Child.” Spoke of wayward children. There
has been mismanagement, sometime in life,
also of physical and mental defects. Spoke
of pre-natal influence. Many are at disad-
vantage. Strong minds need strong bodies. 
Children are crowded through school, and
many nervous breakdowns follow too much
study. Don’t tax children too much while
growing. Spoke on nursing of children:
Mothers’ milk is most natural and best. We
must understand how to govern unruly chil-
dren. Meat is a bad article of diet, influ-
encing child to be stubborn. Strong sea-
soned foods have an influence on children,
inclining them to strong drink in later years. 
Spoke of destroying confidence of our chil-
dren by one parent saying yes and another
saying no. The most important thing in life
is raising of our children. Lectured very in-
terestingly. 
	Song by Mrs. Josie Christensen, “Will it
be a joyful harvest, when I reap what I have
sown?”
	President Minnie Nebeker (Richfield 1st
Ward): Mother’s mission is a great one. 
We hurry too much in our lives, and don’t
take time to study our opportunities. Do
we appreciate our privileges, improve every
moment and each day and accomplish some-
thing, encourage our daughters to study
their mission, and educate ourselves in the
Gospel and teach the same to our children?
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of General
Board said Sister Emily Richards, who
came with her, had to go home on account
of sickness, also that our dear President
Bathsheba W. Smith, being very feeble, she
wished the sisters to pray for her. Enjoyed
the lecture by Dr. Gledhill, also minutes read
and all exercises of this morning. Spoke of
her extended trip through Europe. Encour-
aged mothers to tell boys of the Relief So-
ciety before going on missions. The Relief
Society work is the greatest and grandest
work of women in the world. Spoke of priv-
ileges and blessings of wives and mothers,
and of evils abroad. Let us indeed be help-
mates to our husbands. Invited all the sis-

[Column 2]
ters to visit the apartments in the Bishop’s
building. Song, “Earth with her ten thou-
sand flowers.”
	After benediction by Brother L. P. Jen-
sen, conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 p. m.,
President C. Sorensen presiding. After
opening exercises the General and Stake of-
ficers were sustained unanimously. Sister
Mina Hansen gave a lecture on the Life of
Christ. Spoke of the parables and other
teachings of the Savior. The Gospel teaches
poor and lowly as well as the rich. Men-
tioned the good Samaritan. Every one in
need is our neighbor. 
	Counselor Mary E. Magleby had enjoyed
our conference thus far. In the lecture by
Dr. Gledhill, also the remarks by Sister
Farnsworth, many beautiful points were
brought out. Spoke of the Prophet Joseph
Smith as the greatest man in this dispensa-
tion. Let us use our time in adorning the
souls of our children and not so much their
bodies. 
	Song by Sister Bolinda Young, “Beyond
the gates of Paradise,” very beautifully ren-
dered. 
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth: “The Gos-
pel has the sublimest truths.” Spoke espe-
cially of our sustaining the Exponent also
spoke of the book, “The Life of President
Woodruff,” and said the Nurse Class had
been discontinued for this year, and later
other arrangements would be made. Thought
more care and love should be given our
children. Prayers learned at mother’s knee
will never be forgotten. She had seen the
original picture of “the Lord’s Supper,” in
Italy. Sister Farnsworth then spoke of sav-
ing grain; it will surely be needed; also
urged us to get up a plan of mothers’ work
for our stake. Asked the Lord to bless us
in all things, that we may be able to advance. 
	Sister Mary Swindle bore faithful testi-
mony, and spoke of many blessings. En-
couraged sisters to make average attendance
greater in future, and appreciate the priv-
ileges we have, and embrace all opportuni-
ties. 
	Brother Morton Jensen was satisfied with
the appointment to labor in the Relief Soci-
ety. Sisters are capable of doing their work. 
Am very much pleased with instructions giv-
en today. Mothers should teach their sons
so when asked in mission field to organize a
Relief Society, they would be able to do so. 
Spoke of the sisters in Denmark, holding
work meetings and gathering means to help
the poor. 
	Bishop Heber Christensen (Richfield 1st
Ward) said conditions to do evil are just as
great today as conditions to do good. Spoke
of duties of parents, also on keeping the
Word of Wisdom, and that a full percent-
age of good may be reported by parents in
future. Let us look after our girls and try
to keep them at home, and as Sister Farns-
worth suggested, that they may not attend
these dangerous places of amusement, and
all will have to help to bring about a better
condition for us. 
	Brother P. L. Jensen appreciated teach-
ings given. If we put these into practice
we will succeed. Am pleased to belong to
Relief Society of this stake. When we do
our duties we feel blessed; we also should
set an example worthy of imitation. 
	President Christine Sorensen: We have
had much good instruction; am thankful for
brethren being present, also appreciate the
visit of Sister Farnsworth, and the efforts of

[Column 3]
choir singing for us. Spoke of plan to be
gotten up for Sevier Stake. Encouraged Sis-
ters of different wards to attend Relief So-
ciety business meetings, asked the brethren
to assist the sisters to come to conference. 
Spoke on wheat question and Exponent. It
is our paper, and each Relief Society should
get a few more subscribers. “Lord bless us
that we all may return to our homes in safe-
ty,, and that Sister Farnsworth may accom-
plish her labors and return home in safety. 
	After singing and benediction conference
adjourned until further notice. 
	Singing, “God be with you, till we meet
again.” Benediction by Sister Louisiana
Hepler.
			MARY M. SWINDE, Secy.

		SNOWFLAKE STAKE. 
	The Relief Society Conference convened
at Snowflake, Aug. 19th, 1910, at 10 a. m.,
President Mary J. R. West presiding, Sister
Annie Kartchner conducting the singing. 
	Singing, “Our mountain home so dear.”
	Opening address of welcome by President
Mary J. R. West. She expressed her pleas-
ure at having Sisters Harker and Jensen of
the General Relief Society Board of Salt
Lake City, with us. Spoke of the great good
the Relief Society had done. Also of the
words of the Prophet Joseph Smith when
the Relief Society was organized. Each
mother should strive to gain the Lord’s
Spirit to guide them in rearing her chil-
dren. 
	Recitation, “God seen in the phenomena
of nature,” by Laura Baird. 
	Relief Society Officers of General Board
and Stake were unanimously sustained. 
	Showlow Ward Relief Society reported
by President Adah Owens. Snowflaks Re-
lief Society reported by First Counselor
Nellie M. Smith. St. Joseph Relief Society
reported by President Nina Porter. All were
in good condition Lakeside Relief Society
reported by Sister Margaret Larson The
sisters had been helping one another with
their sewing. Their scattered condition kept
them from holding meetings regularly in
winter. 
	Remarks by Sistetr Hattie Harker: She
was pleased to meet with us. All have their
cares, and can find excuses to remain home
from our meetings. Economize our work,
laundry, housecleaning, etc. This life is not
all and we must prepare ourselves for a
better one, by enlightening our minds every
day. Learn to be forgiving and charitable
toward our fellow men. Follow the exam-
ples Christ set for us. Prayed God to bless
all the sisters, and aid them with His S[-]irit
to guide and protect them. 
	Song by Sister Ellen Adair. 
	Remarks by Sister Hattie Jensen: She
was pleased to meet the sisters of the Snow-
flake Stake, and was delighted with our lit-
tle town. Spoke of the many inventions to
lighten work, since the Gospel was restored. 
How we should be thankful and take advan-
tage of these helps, and improve our minds
by study. How the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety should learn to love one another. Al-
ways think whatever comes is best, when we
are striving to live right. Cultivate cheer-
fulness. 
	Organ solo, by Sister Nellie Hunt. 
	Talk on Mother’s Work by Prest. May H.
Larson.
	Benediction by Sister Emma S. Smith.


Afternoon service convened at 2 p. m.,
President Mary J. R. West presiding
	Original paper, “Education of Women,”
by Sister Lulu J. Smith.
	Remarks by Sister Hattie Harker: There 
are other duties besides keeping the
home spotlessly clean. The mother who
passes away and leaves a family of honor-
able children will be remembered longer
than the mother who neglects her children
to keep her house clean. The children are
better off in the home circle than running
the streets. Protect your sons and daugh-
ters. Be companions with them, enter into
their pleasures, and see that they are inno-
cent pleasures.
	Music by President Ida Rhoten of Shum
way Ward.
	Taylor Relief Society reported by Sister
Ellen Bates, first counselor. The Society
was in good condition, but the average at-
tendance could be improved.
	Remarks by President Samuel F. Smith,
Commended the sisters of the Stake for
their loyalty. Also commented upon what
Sister Harker had said, “that all women
should be virtuous, and the greatest mis-
sion on earth is that of motherhood. Every
child she bore added beauty to her. Prayed
God to bless the mothers and all the Relief
Society workers.
	Remarks by Sister Hattie Jensen: She
also spoke of a woman’s great mission in
bearing and rearing children. The husband
should love and caress the wife and show
her that he loves her, and she in turn
should be devoted to her husband. As Lat-
ter-day Saints we should strive to be exam-
ples. Get your children’s confidence in child-
hood and grow to be companions with them.
Spoke of our girls being attracted by smooth
gentlemanly actions on account of their in-
nocence. Talk plain and teach them how
to protect their virtue and their bodies.
	If we live up to the requirements of the
Gospel we will be able to overcome all ob-
stacles.
	Remarks by President James M. Flake:
We always need encouragement to help us
do our duties at all times. Asked God’s
blessings upon our righteous efforts and up-
on our Relief Society.
	Closing remarks by President Mary J. R.
West: Was pleased to know that God had
blessed us so much. And thanked the sis-
ters who had come so far to visit us.
	Singing, “Praise to the man.”
	Prayer by Jenet M. Smith.
				LAURA BIRD,
					Stake Secretary.

			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Morning Session.
	The Oneida Stake Relief Society met in
annual conference on May 7, 1910, Presi-
dent Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	Singing, “O ye mountains high.”
	Prayer, Julia Roper.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.”
	Address of Welcome, Lucy D. Parkinson.
President Benson expressed disappointment
at not having any of the General Board,
present, but joy in seeing and meeting with
her sisters. Explained that it was due to a
misunderstanding of dates that we had no
visitors.
	A detailed sketch, giving all dates of or-
ganization, etc., of the R. S. of the stake was

[Column 2]
compiled and read by Sec. Phebe A. M.
McNiel.
	A ladies’ chorus was then rendered.
	The General Relief Society conference
was reported in brief by President Benson,
also gave a description of the Relief Society
rooms in the Bishop’s building.
	General and Local Relief Society officers
were sustained.
	Singing, “Sing we now at parting.”
	Benediction by Counselor Hannah Mick-
leson.
	Afternoon Session.
	The Stake Presidency and members of
High Council were present.
	Singing, “Come, let us anew.”
	Prayer, Elder F. W. Pratt.
	Singing, “Sometime, Somewhere.”
	A lecture on Tithing was given by Linda
N. Benson.
	Piano solo, Georgia Dailey.
	Recitation, Enoch Nelson, entitled “The
Ship,” by E. R. Snow.
	Counselor Jos. S. Geddes took up the lec-
ture and spoke on Tithing, also spoke on
Temperance.
	Ladies’ chorus, “Count your blessings.”
	Counselor Chas. D. Goslind spoke on the
system in the Church, dwelling briefly on
the first principles, emphasizing the Word of
Wisdom.
	President Geo. C. Parkinson spoke of the
carrying out of God’s purposes on earth,
dwelt on the evils of intemperance and the
cure thereof, spoke of the power of the
Priesthood, and in what ways a woman en-
joyed the blessings of the same.
	President Benson endorsed all that had
been said, gave words of encouragement to
all.
	Singing, “God be with you till we meet
again.”
	Conference adjourned for six months.
	Benediction, Elder Crosham.
				—PHEBE McNIEL, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PAST AND FUTURE.
Relief Society, ah well art thou named!
Thy mission has ever been one of succor;
Comfort and cheer have been thy watchwords;
To minister unto the afflicted to bind u[-] the
	broken hearted,
To aid the needy and the distressed in all the
	land.
Skillful have been the hands of thy workers,
To fashion fabrics unto useful forms.
Industry and thrift have characterized thy mem-
	bers;
Self-supported hast thou ever been; independent,
Giving thine assistance freely without return.
Not pleasure, but “pleasure in duty” has been
	thy motto,
And when the work of thy hands was com-
	pleted,
Thou hast not given thyself to idle recreation.
But ever hast thou turned thy mind to study.
For wisdom and knowledge hast thou sought.
In good books and in counsel together.
To what, then, shall we liken thee?
To a colony of ants, toiling indefatigably;
To a hive of bees gathering the golden honey
Of wisdom, and from thy precious store,
Sweetening the daily life of all around thee.
This has been thy history—one long labor of
	love.


And were this to compass thy destiny.
It were enough to send thy fame ringing down
	the ages.
But grander yet awaits thee:
Thou shalt in time to come assist in freeing
	woman
From all restraining shackles which yet en-
	circle her about;
Conventions, prejudices, senseless fashions,
And all that seems to raise her up but holds
	her down.
Preventing her from gaining and adorning.
The loftier summits of a nobler womanhood.
Thou shalt encourage, stren[-]then, lead her
Along the steep and thorny path which she
	must climb
To grander realms of thought, a broader vision,
A wider scope of action, clearer light.
Then, since the woman is the great regener-
	ative power,
Uplifted and renewed the race inevitabl[-] must
	be.
Thus with thy fellow organizations
As auxiliaries and aids unto the priesthood
Still must thou labor for the right,
The spread of truth, the welfare of the whole,
To usher in the great millennial day.
To social motherhood thou wilt yet attain,
Continuing the relief of physical distress.
Relief of moral suffering, social wrong, thou
	then wilt undertake.
Humanity calls upon thee to relieve the crush-
	ing burden
Of dire oppression and injustice which doth.
	weigh it down.
Then here upon thy glorious natal day,*
Whilst thou lookest back with joy and pride
Upon the toilsome path whhich thou hast climbed,
Forget not upward still to cast thine eye
To heights thou yet shalt scale, and, gaining,
Make clear the way to all who watch thy pro-
	gress,
Earth’s mighty sisterhood who must follow in
	thy steps.
—Mariam Adams Gudmunsen.

*March 17.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton’s book, “The
History of the Western Reserve,” has just
come from the press.
	From childhood Mrs. Upton has been in-
terested in the history of this northern part
of Ohio. She has collected valuable ma-
terial in the way of old manuscripts, and
has gathered quite a library on the sub-
ject. Mrs. Upton dedicates her work to
her father in the following words:
	“I dedicate these volumes to my father,
who believes that, since women as well as
men were and are the builders of our com-
monwealth, they are entitled to all its rights
and privileges. I am thankful to him for
having pointed out the way to me.”
	Mrs. Upton is well known to many Utah
women—and surely our people [---] in-
terested in a book written of the State where
so many of them lived and built a temple.
	Mrs. Charles B. Penrose, leader of the
Pennsylvania Association Opposed to Suf-
frage, is not at all disconcerted by the ac-
cession of suffrage in the State of Wash-
ington. “What the Western people think or
do matters very little in America,” she states.
“If it were Pennsylvania, that would be an-
other story.”—Philadelphia Press.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


<Sarah A. Burton>
										Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1911					No. 6.


CONTENTS.
The Holiday Season......................The Editor	41
Relief Society Reports:—Liberty, Oneida,
	Alberta Stakes.........................................	42
Lucy Walker Kimball.....................................	43
Woman’s Onward March................................	43
Social Gatherings...........................................	46
Sketch of Julia P. Lindsay...............................	47
Notes and News..............................................	48
Editorial:
	Official Announcement..........................	44
	“Life Lines”............................................	44
	Editorial Notes........................................	44
	Wedding Reception at the Bee Hive
		House..............................................	45
In Memoriam .................................................	45
Poetry:
	To Those who Mourn........Kate Thomas	41
	Lines by Mrs. Howe...............................	41
	“Julia Ward Howe Dead”.................Rev.
		Dr. Antionette L. Brown Blackwell	41
	A Temple Hymn..............Emilie Musser	43
	The Prophet’s Birthday Hattie C. Jensen	43
	An Evening Walk.......Annie Kay Hardy	43


TO THOSE WHO MOURN.
Beyond the blue,
The Shining City lifts its gleaming head,
Peopled by those whom, grieving, we called
	dead.
O white with glory,
Ne’er so live as now,
I think they sense the thorns upon His brow,
And looking down the space that intervenes,
Can whisper to us all what Comfort means.
—Kate Thomas.


LINES BY MRS. HOWE.
	[Lines from a poem read by Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe at the celebration of her birthday by the
New England Women’s Club, in 1905.]
Yes, I’ve had a lot of birthdays, and I'm grow-
	ing very old;
That’s why they make so much of me, if once
	the truth was told.
And I love the shade in summer, and in winter
	love the sun,
And I’m just learning how to live—my wis-
	dom’s just begun.
Don’t trouble more to celebrate these natal
	days of mine,
But keep the grasp of fellowship which warms
	us more than wine.
Let us thank the lavish hand that gives world
	beauty to our eyes,
And bless the days that saw us young, and
	years that make us wise!


“JULIA WARD HOWE DEAD.”
By Rev. Dr. Antionette L. Brown Blackwell.

Not dead! That voice that stirred the world
More deeply than the roar of cannon hurled
With thunder’s echoing; that subtle power
Moves on to fruitage, like the dropping flower.

The farthest reach of human life has known
Her quickening touch, by world-swept zephyrs
	sown;
Word-symbols are but mind’s still halting sigh,
Yet truth’s great words, heartfull, can never die.

Each doer greater is than words or deeds;
Mind must persist to serve our higher needs;
Its gaining strength claims earth, and sea, and
	air.
Is ranging, guiding factor everywhere.

Its lofty spirit, conscious, living soul,
Is sovereign power, in Nature’s complex roll;
The God of Nature’s own co-working pride;
Thank God that Life and Mind have never died!
	Elizabeth, N. J., Oct. 18, 1910.


[Column 1]
		THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
	The spirit of Christmas and the advent of
the new year bring with them more or less
rejoicing and good fellowship that gives
zest to whatever is undertaken of a private
or public nature; yet in a way it is some-
what strenuous, and we are all sort of re-
lieved when the pastimes and many require-
ments made upon the homes and the public
are over, if we have satisfied our own con-
sciences and are at peace with neighbors
and friends, if not with all mankind. Really
most of us loyal women folks do our best and
we are more or less practical and quite un-
selfish. We love our friends sincerely and
we are aiming to be just, as well as gener-
ous in our exchange of tokens of love and
family greetings. In good works and deeds
of kindness, the Latter-day Saints ought to
lead out, we have had more truths taught
us concerning the Savior and His advent
upon the earth than any other people. If
we as a people cherish unkindness and ill-
feeling when we ought only to have love to-
ward all men it will recoil upon ourselves
and we shall be the victims of our own
maliciousness.
	Perhaps there was more jollity and friv-
olity this year in Salt Lake than heretofore,
but there are more people and more enter-
tainments.
	The city is more thickly settled and there
are more places, more resorts of various
kinds and it will naturally be more puzzling
for the young people to select, even with the 
help of wiser heads, the best companions and
safest places to enjoy the merriment and
festivities of the holiday week.
	The young people in the mutual associ-
ations are provided with all care and
thought for these occasions, and need have
no doubts or apprehensions, if they are in
the line of duty; for others outside of like
institutions who drift hither and thither
there is great danger, especially those away
from home influences.
	The question is frequently asked, “What
shall we do with our girls? What shall we
do with our boys?” All sorts of theories
are submitted through the public press,
but the real panacea has not yet been found.
	Mormonism, so-called, has done more in
this line of parentage and caring for one’s
own than other systems, notwithstand-
ing the people having been driven from
place to place and building here and there,
yet because of the patriarchal order of the
family relations they have held together in
sacred bonds.
	Again, the priesthood unites closely the
men who hold it, and all who are worthy
are included. In this our young men are
safe, if they yield obedience.
	The young women and girls are cared
for in auxiliary organizations throughout
the Church, and are carefully guided in all
the various labyrinths of life. The system
is perfect for protection so far as it is pos-
sible.
	Educationally, those who have not had the
advantages such as schools afford here (it is

[Column 2]
known many gather from foreign lands) for
all that can be done to help them forward
has been sought for and much achieved. If
in anything we are lacking it is in the in-
dustrial lines; at one time we had good suc-
cess in the silk industry which gave employ-
ment to many, but in consequence of cir-
cumstances it has lain dormant of late.
	We have an army of nurses trained un-
der the women physicians here; and domes-
tic science is taught in all our schools and
institutions of learning.
	This Christmas season and the New Year
were particularly significant of good will
and loving remembrances; although possi-
bly not so many expensive presents were
given and received as in recent years, and
that is better whatever the cause may have
been; parties, theatres, weddings, musicales
were numerous and to those who were mix-
ing in the merry throngs, judging by society
paragraphs this must have surpassed in
dress and display any other season in our
famous city.
	Among those who choose the quieter ways
of spending holiday evenings there were
many delightfully social home and family
gatherings, where meeting and greeting
kindly faces and conversing of the home
matters, getting near to each other and see-
ing the new babies; these are more delight-
ful than the grand receptions in the great
houses of the rich, even though the halls
are hung with paintings from abroad by
great artists, and the libraries are filled with
choicest volumes.
	After all new babies fresh from paradise
are far more interesting, and more of a
study than old paintings, however celebrated
the artists. Some of us in this day of hur-
ry and worry do not get acquainted with
the babies in our own families. Christmas
and New Years are sort of family reunions
and that is right and proper, but we have
some of us social duties we neglect, and
excuse ourselves for lack of time, and yet
we are not altogether blameless; we should
now and then call upon old friends, we re-
gret occasionally when we hear of their de-
parture to the other side, we excuse our-
selves because of trivial things sometimes,
but let us try sisters, during this year, to
pay some of the calls we have promised on
the friends of former days.
	This is a good new year, the very best
we could have, good weather, beautiful
snow, fine skating, all sorts of good pros-
pects, the Lord has dealt bountifully with
His people, the times are peaceful—cer-
tainly the Latter-day Saints are at peace
with all mankind, and the year nineteen
hundred and eleven has opened propitiously.
	Our Elders and women missionaries
abroad and in our own land are doing a
good work and meeting with success, there-
fore we have reason to be glad that the Gos-
pel is spreading, faith is increasing, but yet
we have not as a people attained to the
blessing, we might enjoy if we cultivate faith
as the vital principle of our lives, and it is in
itself a force. Father Joseph Smith the first


patriarch of the Church, used to say “faith
was energy and energy was faith.” Sister
Eliza R. Snow heard it from his own lips, and
often related it to the writer. As a people
we do not cultivate faith in our inner selves
as we should, we are not as rich in faith
as we might be, if we but have the implicit
faith in prayer that will bring the desired
blessing. We are all aware of the principle
of faith as taught by our Savior in the
New Testament, and what mighty things
were accomplished thereby, we all know
enough, we all believe in faith, but do we
practice it in our every-day lives, as we
should considering who we are, and that
light has come into the world, and that with-
out faith our works are dead. Let us culti-
vate the sublime faith in our daily lives that
will uplift and strengthen us in every good
word and work.
THE EDITOR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual conference of Liberty Stake
Relief Society convened Dec. 8, 1910, at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m., President Anna S. Mus-
ser presiding. After the opening exercises,
and the solo entitled, “I know that my Re-
deemer Liveth,” by Sister Eva James, Pres-
dent Musser warmly greeted the sisters,
and gave some good instructions.
	Miss McDonald sang a solo.
	Counselor Mary E. Hodgson, gave some
instructions to ward secretaries, also paid
a tribute to our president, Anna S. Musser,
her many noble qualities, her charitableness,
and the performance of her duties, under
the most trying circumstances, to which
President Musser responded.
	Reports were given of the Tenth, Thirty-
first, Thirty-third, Liberty and Emigra-
tion wards. All were reported as progress-
ing favorably and in the line of their duty.
	Sister Louisa Dunbar rendered the solo
entitled “At the Manger.”
	Elder C. W. Symonds felt that he was
elevated, by associating with the sisters, in
the hearing of their noble works, encour-
aged us to speak of the good deeds per-
formed by our fellow laborers, while on
earth, and not wait until they had passed
away, also spoke of the promises made by
the Lord to his people being fulfilled.
	After closing exercises meeting ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Delicious refreshments were served be-
tween the meetings, and a musical program
rendered.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock, and
after the opening exercises, Sister Maud
Kenner sang the solo entitled, “There’s a
Green Hill Far Away.”
	Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley was pleased
with the good atendance, and thought that
this was a grand and glorious work, and
that we would be blessed in our labors.
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor gave a talk on
the signs of the times, which was very in-
structive, and listened to with interest.
	A duet was rendered by Sisters Iretta
Jackson and Florence Barney.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, who visited the
conference by special appointment, spoke
about the Christmas spirit of love and com-
munion, to help us to walk in the foot-steps
of our Savior. Related some of her experi-

[Column 2]
ences while traveling in foreign lands and in
the Holy Land, also at home.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to
make the conference a success. After the
solo entitled “God be with you until we
meet again,” by Sister Eva James, and ben-
ediction by Sister Emma Maw, conference
adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS,
							Secretary.

		ONEIDA STAKE.
	Semi-annual conference of the Oneida
Stake Relief Society was held Nov. 5, 1910,
in the Oneida Stake Academy.
	Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson presided.
Sister Benson was absent, due to the illness
of her daughter.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and Dr.
Romania B. Penrose of the General Society
were present.
	After opening exercises, a solo was ren-
dered, “A prayer for faith,” by Mae Nel-
son.
	A lesson on the Organization and Gov-
ernment of the Relief Society was given by
Chloe L. M. Howell.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams of the
General Relief Society addressed the con-
ference on various topics. Expressed joy
at being present; spoke of the life and
death of President Bathsheba W. Smith;
the election and works of Sister E. B.
Wells; the organization and magnitude of
Relief Society work, and our great oppor-
tunities for extending our influence abroad.
	Dr. Penrose endorsed what had been said
and addressed the conference on the pro-
gress of Mormonism and the success of mis-
sionaries, especially the lady missionaries.
Spoke of the beauties of the Gospel, the joy
of living and appreciation of our bless-
ings.
	Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson explained
that as a lecture was to be given by Gover-
nor Brady of Idaho this evening, it had been
proposed that we adjourn for one hour in-
stead of two for noon, and probably have the
opportunity of hearing him. This was voted
on by those present, and it was decided to
adjourn for one hour only.
	Singing, “Do what is right.”
	Benediction, Hannah Corbridge.
	At the afternoon session of conference
many leading brethren were present. After
usual exercises, a report showing all asso-
ciations of the Relief Society in good con-
dition was given by Linda N. Benson, stake
secretary.
	Duet, “The morning breaks,” Otto John-
son and daughter.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose addressed the
conference on the value of the Gospel, the
work of Elders abroad, and living to gain
a title for eternal life. The value of time,
the evils of card parties, and extremes of
fashion; admonished all to be kind, sociable,
and to give words of joy and hope.
	Piano duet, Eva Johnson and Marinda
Larson.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams said that
the Oneida Stake Relief Society was among
the best, and that the President, Louisa B.
Benson, was progressive, wide awake, and
the General Board loved her and appreci-
ated her labors; also spoke upon woman’s
suffrage, and the extension of Relief Society
work; advised all to shun games of chance,
cards, wine, etc.; to attend the church

[Column 3]
meetings and not join secret societies.
	President Geddes endorsed what had been
said, and portrayed the beauties of living a
good life in the Gospel of Christ, and the
need of preparation for motherhood.
	Closing remarks were given by Coun-
selor Lucy D. Parkinson, and conference
was adjourned for six months. 
	Singing, “Beautiful Zion.”
	Benediction, Counselor James Johnson.
			LINDA N. BENSON,
							Cor. Secy.

		ALBERTA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Alberta
Stake Relief Society met at 10 a. m., on
Nov. 15, 1910, in the Cardston Assembly
Hall, with the Priesthood and auxiliaries,
for preliminary exercises, after which the
Relief Society sisters adjourned into the Re-
lief Society hall.
	Stake President Mary J. Hinman pre-
sided. After the usual exercises, Stake
Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman gave the open-
ing address, welcoming the goodly number
present, and especially our dear sister Mary
L. Woolf, who is present with us today,
she having been our first president in Card-
ston, when that Society was organized,
twenty-three years ago, which position she
held until the Alberta stake was organized,
when she was called and set apart as pres-
ident over all the Relief Society in Al-
berta on August 20th, 1894, which position
she held till a year ago, when she re-
moved to Utah to make her home there
and care for her aged mother and look up
family genealogy. Aunt Rhoda spoke of the
divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Said she well remembered the time when the
Relief Society was first organized by him;
said we should be proud of a name and a
standing in a Church that has withstood so
many trials and persecutions, for it can be
plainly seen the hand of the Lord has been
over this people. Said we should be very
careful to not say anything against those
who are placed in authority over us before
our children to cause them to lose confidence
in any person whom it is their duty to sus-
tain.
	Sister Mary L. Woolf felt almost too
full of love and gratitude to express her
feelings in the joy of being with her rela-
tives and friends here once more. Felt
a desire to do good wherever her lot might
be cast. Spoke of the duties of mothers, and
of the advancement made in Relief Society
work, and the benefit mothers’ work is to
us all and especially young mothers in rais-
ing their children. Referred to her home
life in Utah, and of her aged mother, Sis-
ter Elizabeth Howe Hyde, who is now past
ninety-seven years of age, enjoys doing work
in the Temple whenever an opportunity af-
fords, living within a short distance of the
Logan Temple. Referred to the duty wives
owe to their husbands, being willing to hum-
ble themselves in their little differences,
keeping a good spirit always in the home;
felt the sisters could be missionaries among
their associates, and do much good in ac-
companying their children to their parties
and socials. Alluded to the time when she
was called in her younger days to preside
over the Relief Society in her home town in
Utah and of the counsel and advice given
her at that time by Sister Eliza R. Snow,
telling her to never undervalue herself, but
	(CONCLUDED ON PAGE 48.)


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
ALBERTA STAKE.
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 42.)
to stand up and preside with dignity, and
never say, “I have nothing to say that will
edify,” after having asked our heavenly
Father for His aid.
	Stake President Mary J. Hinman very
much appreciated the presence and good ad-
vice of Aunt Mary, said we would hear a
report this afternoon from our representa-
tive who was in attendance at the recent Re-
lief Society conference held in Salt Lake
City, exhorted the sisters to do all in their
power to cut down family expenses and as-
sist their husbands in obtaining the means
to complete our stake tabernacle, which is
so much needed.
	Missionary Mary E. Smith felt to rejoice
in the spirit of the conference and for the
presence of Sister Woolf. Said this is a
beautiful world, and it rests with us to
make our lives beautiful. There is work for
all to do; let us each do our part cheerfully.
	Sister Adelaide Hunt, a former resident
of Cardston, spoke of the great work that
the Relief Society is capable of accomplish-
ing, and the help it was to her in the early
days of Cardston. Bore testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Easthope, one of our aged
sisters felt grateful for the blessings of the
Gospel and for the dear sisters who are cap-
able of giving us such good counsel and ad-
vice; felt well paid for coming twenty miles
this morning to attend this conference.
	Sister Payne, another aged sister who had
also rode twenty miles to attend this con-
ference, felt very grateful for t[--]s privilege
of listening to the instructions given; felt
the Lord had greatly blessed her in health.
	President Ella Nelson of the Woolford
branch, bore testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and the good that is being done by
the Relief Society where we have the priv-
ilege of advancing in many ways. She then
blessed the sisters present through the gift
of tongues.
	The interpretation was given by Sister
Elizabeth Hammer. The sisters then ad-
journed to main hall, where Sister Woolf
was again requested to speak to the breth-
ren and sisters.
	Closed by singing Doxology.
	Benediction by Elder William Steed.
	The afternoon session, convened at 2 p. m.
Stake President Mary J. Hinman presiding.
After the usual opening exercises, Stake
Counselor Lydia J. Brown gave an address
of welcome to all present, prayed that we
may have a continuation of the good Spirit
which we so much enjoyed in our morn-
ing meeting.
	Assistant Stake Secretary Rhoda Duce
gave a report of the meetings held and the
instructions given recently at the general
semi-annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety in Salt Lake City. Said among other
things was shown the necessity of testi-
mony bearing as to the divinity of the life
and works of Jesus Christ and the mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also spoke of
the duties of Relief Society teachers. Let
them be instructors of some good thing per-
taining to the Gospel that a good spirit
may be left in the homes of those whom
they visit. Also spoke of other duties
teachers are called upon to perform. Al-
luded to the recent death of our beloved
President Bathsheba W. Smith. President
Emmeline B. Wells had said, let her mem-

[Column 2]
ory ever be kept fresh in our hearts, and
speak often of her good deeds.
	Miss Laverna Wilcox gave a piano solo.
	Sister Mary L. Woolf spoke of the good
spirit and influence felt here today; was
grateful for the many expressions of kind
regard uttered in her behalf. Referred to
the noble band of sisters who preside at the
head of our Relief Society; said the last time
President Bathsheba W. Smith presided in
public during her lifetime, in her address
to the sisters assembled in conference, her
voice being weak, her Counselor, Ida S.
Dusenberry, stood by her side and said,
Sister Smith wishes me to say, we have
heard the expression, that we go up the
ladder until we get to a certain age, then
go down on the other side, but she wished
to say to us, we should go on up, up, until
we step off into eternity. President Smith’s
life ended in just that way. Spoke of the
blessings to be obtained by keeping the
Word of Wisdom.
	Missionary Sarah B. Daines was pleased
with the presence of Sister Woolf; felt she
really belonged to us. Spoke on the subject
of kindness; said let us cultivate kindness
and charity for each other, and of the good
to be derived through attending these meet-
ings; said officers of Primaries and Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement associations
would be greatly benefited by listening to
the lectures on mothers’ work, which would
assist them in their work among the chil-
dren. Felt grateful for the gifts of the
Gospel.
	A vocal solo was given by Miss Etta
Dowdle, entitled “Dreaming of Home and
Mother.”
	Missionary Elizab[-]th I. Hammer report-
ed members of the stake board having re-
cently visited the Society in all the wards
but one, found them all in good working
order; said it is a pleasure to have Aunt
Mary with us again; they have lived neigh-
bors since the pioneer days of Alberta. We
should teach our children reverence for sa-
cred things and places.
	Counselor Thomas Duce of the stake
presidency had enjoyed the spirit of the con-
ference, had wished that every sister in the
stake could have been present. Spoke of
the spirit of criticism which is going abroad
said let us keep it out from among us, and
uphold those in authority over us. If we
know this to be the work of the Lord we will
not be disturbed by the actions of others, as
a representative of the stake presidency he
would say they were very much pleased with
the work of the Relief Society in this stake,
was pleased with the presence of Aunt Mary
Woolf; had known her since her girlhood
and appreciated her worth.
	Elder Ephraim Harker, one of the High
Council appointed to assist the Relief So-
ciety, said he felt the same spirit here to-
day that had been enjoyed at the general
conference, and we have received counsel
and instruction that was given there. Felt
thankful that we do not have political dis-
turbances among us. Let us be very careful
to say nothing about any person derogatory

[Column 3]
to character, for we do not always under-
stand.
	Patriarch Henry L. Hinman had enjoyed
listening to the report from headquarters.
Felt that Sister Emmeline B. Wells is the
right one to lead this Society. Although
she is aged, she is very capable and in pos-
session of all her faculties. She is one of
the links which bind the past, the present
and the future together. The Relief Soci-
ety should support her with their faith and
prayers. Said she was acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and others who have
gone before, and he believed her prayers
would prevail with them in the heavens, for
the benefit of those of us who remain on the
earth. Felt glad for the presence of Aunt
Mary Woolf. Missed very much not hav-
ing Uncle John Woolf with us also. Felt
to bless the sisters of the Relief Society.
	Bishop Dennis E. Harris had very much
enjoyed listening to the good things which
have been said, exhorted parents to have a
watch care over their children, and keep
them off the streets. President Mary J.
Hinman made the closing address, earnestly
reminding the sisters about gathering grain,
etc. Said conference would adjourn for
three months.
	Closed by singing, “God be with you till
we meet again.”
	Benediction by Elder Manly Brown.
JANE W. BATES,
Stake Secretary.

[At the bottom of the page below Columns 2 and 3]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY LADIES' READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TEMPLE HYMN.
Father hear us, we mplore Thee,
In Thine House wilt Thou draw nigh,
Let Thy grace divine attend us
While we labor through the day.

Help us to be patient always,
Give in love a helping hand,
Let Thy Spirit lead and guide us.
Teach us to be true and kind.

Help us here to walk in meekness,
Rise in strength to do Thy work,
Fear no evil, Thou’lt defend us
If, we trust in Thee, oh, Lord.

Let us feel Thy presence near us,
In Thine Light the Truth discern,
Let Thy Peace forever be with us,
That we eternal life may gain.
						Emilie Maeser.


THE PROPHET’S BIRTHDAY.
On this day long years ago
	The Modem Prophet came
And magnified the Word of God,
	He made the Gospel plain.
Revere his natal day,
	Loving thoughts have sway.
His noble life twixt joy and strife
	Made great his name for aye.

His life was short but full of zeal
	Unto the martyred end,
He struggled on to do God’s will,
	And boldly did defend
The Word he came to bring.
	O loudly let us sing!
’Twill save us all, both great and small.
	It is a glorious thing!

O’er four score years now it has been
	And still the work goes on,
Increased each year by honest souls
	Who’ll join with us in song.
Hail the glorious day
December twenty-three,
Our Prophet’s day we’ll love alway,
	Throughout eterntiy.
				—Hattie C. Jenson.


[Column 1]
	LUCY WALKER KIMBALL.
		Autobiography.
	(Continued from page 34.)
	The Prophet Joseph Smith often referred
to the feelings that should exist between
husbands and wives. He said men should
beware how they treat their wives, that they
were given them for a holy purpose, and he
also said many should awake on the morn-
ing of the resurection sadly disappointed for
they, by transgression, would have neither
wives nor children, for they surely would be
taken from them and given to those who 
should prove themselves worthy.
	President Joseph Smith taught me the
principle of plural marriage, which, after
much serious thought and prayer for many
months, I became convinced that the prin-
ciple was revealed from heaven, and on the
first day of May, 1843, I consented to be-
come the Prophet’s wife, and was sealed to
him for time and all eternity at his own
house by Elder William Clayton.
	Today I have but one regret which is
that I have not been a more worthy repre-
sentative of the principle of plural mar-
riage, and that I have not lived a more per-
fect life. I can also state that Emma Smith
was present and did consent to Eliza and
Emily Partridge, also Maria and Sarah
Lawrence being sealed to her husband. This
I had from the Prophet’s own mouth, also
the testimony of her niece, Hyrum Smith’s
eldest daughter (my brother Lorin’s wife)
as well as that of the young ladies named

[Column 2]
themselves with whom I was on most inti-
mate terms and was glad that they, too, had
accepted that order of marriage. Instead of
a feeling of jealousy it was a source of com-
fort to me. We were as sisters to each other.
	In this I acted in accordance with the will
of God. Not for any worldly aggrandize-
ment, not for the gratification of the flesh.
How can it be said that we accepted this 
principle for any lustful desires? Preposter-
ous. This would be utterly impossible. But,
as I said before, we accepted it to obey a
command of God, to establish a principle
that would benefit the human family and
emancipate them from the degradation into
which they had fallen through their wicked
customs.
	Since 1845 I have been the wife of Presi-
dent Heber C. Kimball by whom I have had
nine children, five sons and four daughters; 
have lived in the same house with other
members of his family, have loved them as
dearly as my own sisters, until it became
necessary as our children began to grow up
around us to have separate homes. Every
mother has her own mode of government
and as children grow in years it is more
pleasant to have them under the immediate
dictation of their own mother. I can truth-
fully state, however, that there is less room
for jealousy where wives live under the same
roof. They become interested in each oth-
er’s welfare; they love the other’s children;
besides, in my experience I find the children
themselves love each other as dearly as the
children of one mother. In sickness, it has
been a pleasure to minister to those in need
of assistance. I will say here, too, that it is
a grand school. You learn self control, self-
denial, it brings out the nobler traits of our
fallen natures, and teaches us to study and
subdue self, while we become acquainted
with the peculiar characteristics of each oth-
er. There is a grand opportunity to im-
prove ourselves and the lessons learned in a 
few years are worth the experience of a life-
time for this reason, that you are better pre-
pared to make a home happy. You can eas-
ily avoid many unpleasant features of do-
mestic life that through inexperience you
otherwise are unprepared to meet. The study
of human nature is a grand study.
	Heber C. Kimball was a noble whole-
souled son of God and was as capable of 
loving more than one woman as God Him-
self is capable of loving all His creations.
	Sister Vilate Murray Kimball, first wife
of Heber C. Kimball, was one of the noble
women of the earth. She was dearly beloved
by his wives and children as well as by all
who intimately knew her. Too little has
been said of her exemplary life. She was a 
ministering angel to those in distress, ever
ready to aid those who had not been so for-
tunate as herself in regard to the comforts
of life. She never seemed so happy as while
seeking to make others happy. Every year
it was her custom to invite all the family to
dine at her table and insisted that it was her
privilege to wait upon and make them happy
and comfortable. In her last sickness she
expressed her regret that she could no long-
er have the pleasure of seeing the family to-
gether as she had been in the habit of doing.
On one occasion, as she had done in former 
years, she answered, “You must excuse me,
as our own family has grown so large that
by the time I visit them all I want to be-
gin the rounds again.” This shows the
good feelings she cherished towards her hus-
band’s wives and children. Too much can-

[Column 3]
not be said of her example. In her demise,
Zion lost one of her noblest daughters.
	Very sincerely,
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
					LUCY W. KIMBALL.


AN EVENING WALK.

Away from merry, dancing throng,
	To where the hill slopes rise and fall,
To search for wild flowers, hidden oft
	’Mid sage brush gray, with taste like gall.

The rosy glow of sunset lends
	A charm of brightness to the scene;
Then purple twilight gently bends
	And softens Nature’s gayer mien.

The silence round was almost felt 
	Save when the plaint of lonely bird
Broke out, or distant marksman's gun
	The sleeping mountain echoes stirred.

The first we found were lilac cups
	That clustered low upon the ground,
Then tall and slender stalks rose up
	With delicate, eye-like blossoms crowned.

Daisies clothed with modest grace,
	Sego buds, and waving grass
Were severed from their resting place
	And gathered in one clustering mass.

But queen of all the flowers there
	Was lily, wild, and lily fair,
With face so pure, and vest so white,
	Type of innocence blest and bright.

A stone was rolled from off a place
	Where drops of pure spring water fell,
And there beneath a tiny stream—
	A lizard drowned in shallow well.

Oh, would that evil thought and deed
	Could die beneath a stream of good resolves.
That springing up, to nobler,
	Higher aims would lead!

Like Blue Bell sought, we could not find,
	Are mortals’ wishes, seldom few;
We slight the sweets already found
	And always seek for something new.
						—Annie Kay Hardy.


WOMAN’S ONWARD MARCH.
	It is only by contrasting the position of
women forty years ago with that which they
occupy today that an adequate idea can be
obtained of the great advance they have
made. They have had to fight, it is true,
for every inch of the road they have won.
Just as they are being opposed today in
their demand for the vote by the prejudice
and selfishness of men, so they have had to
face hostility in their demand to be allowed
to share in educational opportunities and
to work in professions and occupations
which men had monopolized. That work is
not yet finished, but many of the bulwarks
have been broken down. Medicine is a pro-
fession now open to women, but the doors of
law are still barred against them. The latest
masculine preserve to be thrown open to
women is the delegacy to the Wesleyan
Conference. The matter was considered by
last year’s Conference, and it was referred
to the District Synods for their considera-
tion. It is reported that twenty-four dis-
tricts have voted in favor of women being
admitted to the Conference and ten against
the change. The Conference considered this
decision last week, and ultimately decided
by 179 votes to 153 to alter the constitution
of the Conference so as to admit women.
That vote shows that a good proportion of
the leading Wesleyan Methodists are still in
the bondage of ancient ideas about women,
but it is significant of the trend of modern
thought that such a conservative body as
the Wesleyans should have adopted the pro-
posed change.—London Christian Common-
wealth.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	JANUARY, 1911


[Column 1]
	OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
Official announcement of the organization
of the General Presidency of the Relief So-
ciety.
	To the officers and members of the sev-
eral stakes, missions and branches of the
Relief Society in the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in all the world:—
	In the dispensations of our Heavenly
Father, whose hand we acknowledge in all
that pertains to our work here on earth,
the Relief Society has been called to part
with its faithful and honored leader and
President, Bathsheba W. Smith, after a long
life of continued labor and ministrations
in the Relief Society and in the Salt Lake
Temple. In both these positions, she was
ever faithful and true.
	She was called to preside over the Relief
Society, October 31, 1901, successor to Sis-
ter Zina D. H. Young, and was sustained
by vote of the special conference of the
Church, held in the tabernacle in this city,
November 10, 1901.
	We thank the Lord for Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith’s life and labors and those asso-
ciated with her in the work, and for those
great and valiant women, who preceded her,
and we humbly pray that we may be able
to carry on the work of which these great
and heroic women laid the foundation, and
builded so splendidly thereon.
	At a meeting of the General Board of the
Relief Society, held in the Relief Society
headquarters, in the Bishops’ Building, Mon-
day, October 3, 1910, Presidents Anthon
H. Lund and John Henry Smith, being
present, the General Board were notified
that Sister Emmeline B. Wells had been se-
lected as President of the Relief Society with
Sister Clarissa S. Williams, first counselor,
and Sister Julina L. Smith, second counselor.
	At the General Conference of the Church,
held October 6, 1910, in the tabernacle in
this city, the president and counselors, pre-
viously appointed were sustained by unani-
mous vote of the conference.
	We humbly desire to aid in the great work

[Column 2]
of the Relief Society, unitedly with our
sisters throughout the world. We have not
taken this responsibility upon ourselves, but
have been called by the Holy Priesthood
and we pray earnestly that we may be able,
to magnify the callings given to us of the
Lord, and to do so acceptably, we shall
need the faith and support of the First Pres-
idency, the Apostles, Presiding Bishops,
Presidents of Stakes, and Bishops, whom we
ever feel to uphold and with whom, we de-
sire to work in harmony and to merit at
all times, their confidence and blessing.
	(Signed.)
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					President.
			CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS,
					First Counselor.
			JULINA L. SMITH,
					Second Counselor.


EDITORAL NOTES.
	The secretaries of the Relief Society in
all the stakes of Zion, and also in missions
and branches here in our own country and
in foreign lands are requested to make com-
plete reports of statistical and financial con-
ditions for the year 1910 from January 1
to December 31, of said year. It is also
requested that any changes made in officers,
new organizations effected, and in fact any
matter of importance pertaining to the work
of the Society be given in addition to the
report. This notice is official.
	The Vermont party, as it was called, held
in the Social Hall in this city on the anni-
versary of the Prophet Joseph Smith’s birth-
day was a great success socially. The Ver-
mont dinner was in all respects typical of
New England, chicken pie with all the es-
sential viands that belong thereto, baked
beans, brown bread, pumpkin pie and ginger-
bread and nuts and raisins, one need not
go into particulars, the cooking was of the
best quality and the dinner in the way of
enjoyment was all that could be desired by
the most fastidious. There was some fine
music and a little pleasantry, in which a few
participated; some recitations were given
also a fine reading by Miss Maude May Bab-
cock. President Joseph F. Smith made an
excellent address alluding to the trip to Ver-
mont taken in the winter of 1905, and the
event is commemorated each year a custom
which has become sort of permanent now.
President Smith in his remarks told many
interesting things pertaining to the building
of the monument and paid a high tribute
of praise to Jenius F. Wells, whose perse-
verance under conditions had been quite re-
markable; mentioned that some pictures had
arrived that day and been hung in the hall,
they were scenes from the historic grounds.
Booklet souvenirs were given to all the
guests, containing views of the birthplace,
the monument, etc. Dr. Seymour B. Young
led in singing, “Onward Christian Soldiers,”
and the exercises closed with a benedic-
tion. The party was very enjoyable and
great credit is due the young women, who
made it possible to have such an old-fash-
ioned dinner, such excellent cooking, and
the young girls who waited upon the table,
most of them the President’s daughters,
were dainty and sweet in white, and served
the company sumptuously.


“LIFE LINES” BY ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	“Life Lines” is a new book of poems just
ssued, published by Skelton Pub. Co., in this
city. The book is unique in appearance, be-
ing in white and gold and the engraving on
the cover a ship just coming to anchor with
lines thrown out. It is quite different to
any book by a home author both in cover
and illustration. The book contains over
three hundred pages and is printed on clear
white paper in the best of type, and well
bound, in fact it is “up to date” in style and
finish.
	The poems have been written at various
periods from childhood to the present, cov-
ering half a century of time. These verses
are from the heart of a woman who has felt
keenly all that she has written, and much
more that is unexpressed; they might ap-
propriately be called “heart throbs.”
	It would be cruel to judge a poet while
living, though it is true we do, and some-
times harshly, but that we often make re-
marks that are unfair in speaking, but in
writing we should be particularly careful to
avoid criticism, as none of us are perfect
in our work or in our style.
	However, we have only fair words of
praise for this book and the poet; the wonder
is that in view of all the circumstances she
had the courage to launch a book upon the
market at this particular time.
	We are proud of every “Mormon” wom-
an who has brought out a volume either of
prose or poetry, and we rejoice in the as-
surance that there will yet be many libraries
of our works of our own people instead of a
book here and there—and we predict many
of these books yet to appear will be writ-
ten by women.
	Many of these poems date back to a time
when there was no electric light or gas,
and only wood-fires to sit by in the evening,
but thoughts were as poetic, as when lights
are brilliant, and Ellis Shipp has always been
an early riser, and like Sister Eliza R. Snow,
could write in the morning.
	It will be recalled by those who see the
book “Life Lines,” that the author is a doc-
tor, a graduated physician, and has practiced
more than thirty years; meantime has trav-
eled much in this western country from Can-
ada to Mexico, and in several of the largest
cities of the east, and has a wide experi-
ence among people of many communities.
This is all helpful to a writer giving new im-
petus and increasing stores of information.
	Perhaps one of the poems that would
specially please many of our people, those
who crossed the plains in early days—would
be—“The Grave in the Desert”—and the
only very long poem is entitled, “The Life
Celestial” divided into several parts and
covers about forty-seven pages, the first sub-
heading is a prelude entitled “Meditation,”
and is admirably written in a very lofty and
impassioned style. It is not exactly Hebraic
but tends towards that form of composition.
	Some of the dainty verses are very sweet.
“Aunt Zina’s Jewels,” “The First Rose of
Summer,” “Dawn,” “Echoes,” “Faded
Flowers.” The poem to “My Father” is
very touching, and the one entitled “Pro-
gress” is certainly one of the very best in
point of merit. One could go on summing
up the sweetest and best, but where there is
great variety it is not easy to select, but we
recommend the book as an excellent one for
the young people to read, and to select from
for recitations, and we hope the ship (the


book) just landed in this fair haven laden
with precious gems more valuable than gold
or silver that perisheth may prove a suc-
cess in many ways.
	May the seeds of truth contained in these
poems germinate and bear fruit that shall
permeate the hearts of the youth of Zion,
and the ship o’er laden drifting from port to
port reach many a weary pilgrim tossed on
tempestuous seas—who may find comfort
in the brave heroic utterances of a woman
physician, poet and heroine.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WEDDING RECEPTION AT THE BEE
HIVE HOUSE.
“But happy they, the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings
	blend.”
	A very pretty home wedding was cele-
brated at the Bee Hive House in this city,
Thursday, December 15,1910. Mr. E. Wes-
ley Smith and Miss May Smith were mar-
ried in the Salt Lake Temple at 10 a. m.
President Joseph F. Smith, father of the
bridegroom, performed the ceremony that
united them for time and all eternity.
	The reception was held in the Bee Hive
House in the evening and was a very home-
like affair. The spacious rooms were taste-
fully decorated in colors and the host and
hostess, President Joseph F. and Sister Ju-
lina L. Smith, parents of the bridegroom,
were assisted in receiving by Brother John
Smith and wife, parents of the bride, and
members of the family.
	One corner of the large reception room
was very artistically arranged for the bridal
party with wreaths of holly and beautiful
roses, festooned and garlanded and the new-
ly wedded bride and bridegroom with the
most charming bridesmaids, sisters of the
bridegroom. Misses Rachel and Edith Smith
on the left and on the right, Mr. Gordon
Hyde best man, certainly it was a beauti-
ful picture to look upon as they stood re-
ceiving the numerous guests who came to
greet and congratulate them, and to shower
upon them every good wish for joy and
happiness in their future lives.
	Conversation among the guests, meeting
old friends and acquaintances as well as new
ones seemed quite entertaining, and then
there were the presents to admire, and there
were many of them and in great variety,
refreshments, too, were served in the hand-
some dining room, and each guest had a tiny
box of wedding cake handed round by the
pretty little girls in pink, blue, and white
costumes, and by and bye when the two hun-
dred and fifty people had all been served
and it was really time to say an revoir, there
was a great commotion, and lo and behold
it was the bride throwing her bridal bouquet
of long stemmed white roses among the bevy
of beautiful young ladies.
	The Exponent extends hearty congratula-
tions to the young people just setting
sail on life’s battle ship, and may the winds
and waves be favorable for a long and pros-
perous voyage with only such experiences
as shall cause them to cling close to each
other, and to the Great Pilot who will land
them at last with a heavy freight of Smiths
in a happy haven, where only sweet content
and peace abound; but should rough winds
blow hold together and you will be able to
face all sorts of weather, and come off tri-
umphant.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
	Harriet Amelia Folsom Young.
“Death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust;
No outward sign, or sound our ears can reach;
But there’s an inward spiritual speech
	That greets us still, tho’ mortal tongues be
		dust.
It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the
		strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again.”

	Sister Amelia F. Young passed away at
her own residence on South Temple and
First West streets in this city, Sunday morn-
ing, at five minutes to four o’clock, Decem- 
ber 11, 1910, after more than three years of
intense suffering and pain.
	How beautiful it is that God giveth His
beloved saints sleep at last, the sleep from
which they wake to enter into the rest that
remains for those who love and serve Him.
	We need not grieve now that she has suf-
fered, for our Father doeth all things well;
we must acknowledge His hand in all that
befalls His children.
	We have missed her from our social gath-
erings, and the places where she visited, for
a long time, and although for many months
we expected she would recover, and once
again come into our midst where she longed
to be, yet latterly we have had to give up all
hope of permanent recovery. The Lord knew
what was best for her, and she has gone to
her beloved husband and joined the happy
group of relatives and friends upon the other,
side, where there is no pain, or sorrow, or
weeping forevermore.
	Sister Young has many friends over there
besides those of her own kindred. In the
early sixties just after coming to Utah, she
became one of the foremost among a wide
circle of beautiful young ladies; quite a num-
ber of this company had left us before Sister
Amelia the names vere familiar to us in the
past though we seldom hear them now. The
old-fashioned parties and ball-rooms never
seemed quite complete without their pres-
ence.
	Closely associated with Amelia Folsom
were Ann Maria Whitney, Julia and Maggie
Lawrence, Sarah Brown, Sarah and Eliza-
beth Kay, Romania Bunnell (now Penrose)
and others whose names would fill these
pages, and only two of those whose names
we mention here are living today. What
memories these names recall, well might
Goldsmith write: “Remembrance wakes
with all her busy train.”
	Sister Amelia filled her own place in the
community, and although she was fond of
her family and had a large circle of friends,
she in no wise depended upon them she
was everywhere and always herself, and her
presence bespoke those dominant and mas-
terful qualities of a woman who could main-
tain her dignity without effort in all places
and at all times: Independent, able to stand
alone; something quite indefinable yet ap-
parent. She had a queenly manner and it
was not assumed.
	Her home was her palace, though she
lived in it many years practically alone with
just one girl, a woman for help. Sister
Amelia entertained occasionally, large
and small parties and was always courteous
to her friends.
	There were times when she had the

[Column 2]
privilege of extending the hospitality of her
house to those who were in need of protec-
tion from their enemies; and she was glad
to have them under her roof; it was a pleas-
ure to her to be able to extend favors to
those who were being persecuted for their 
religious principles, the same principle she
had herself embraced. There was compen-
sation in this, such as only those can under-
stand, who have passed through like experi-
ences.
	Sister Young’s life, written up after the
style of the world, could be made a thrilling
romance. The lives of our Mormon sisters
are replete with romantic incidents.
	Among the many friends of Sister Amelia
later in life we may count the most intimate,
Mrs. Priscilla M. Staines, Mrs. Lizzie Fen-
ton Young and Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings,
these three were really bosom companions,
and with them she traveled abroad. The
journey across the ocean and on the con-
tinent was made during the time Apostle
Brigham Young Jr. was presiding over the
European mission, and was a notable event
in her life; several times afterwards she vis-
ted the larger cities in the United States and
made many acquaintances, Who always re-
membered her, and with some of them she
from time to time corresponded on the sub-
ject of Utah and the religion of our people. 
	Mrs. Young was musical in her tastes, as
well as specially artistic, and inclined to the
sentimental; she played well in former days
and was fond of the old-fashioned songs.
it would seem strange now, but it is never-
theless quite true that “Bingen On The
Rhine,” “Lord Lochinvar,” “The Dismal
Swamp,” “The Mistletoe Bough,” “Deaf
Chloe,” etc., these were the popular songs
of the early days. Of course there were
some with fewer verses and not quite so
dreary.
	Amelia Young was cradled in Mormon-
ism. She was five years old when her father
and mother were baptized in the Niagara
river, and ever afterwards in their journey-
ings hither and thither Mormonism was the
loadstone that led them, and she knew very
little of any other religion, nor did she ever
care to hear any other. She knew in her in-
most heart and soul that the gospel was
true. She realized what her father and moth-
er had passed through because they would 
not deny the faith they had embraced, and
for which they left their home and kindred
and the friends of their youth.
	It seems only a short time since we used
to gather in the home now so desolate, be-
cause of the one who once made it bright
by her cheerful presence and cordial hos-
pitality, and most of those we used to meet
at the sumptuous banquets are gone to the
other side; but those of us who are living
recall with pleasure the happy hours spent
there. Brother Folsom and other brethren
talking of Temple building and the work
for the dead, and of the days of wander-
ing and persecution, and calling up the
names of those most conspicuous in the
earlier scenes, Brigham and Heber and their
associates in the pioneer work of building
and legislating, and founding this Territory; 
but now how few there are who can recount
so vividly—just a few, and the ranks are
thinning almost daily. The scenes change,
the scenery is shifting, and one must be very
alert to grasp the “up to date” ideas and
keep pace with the times in which we are
living.


[Column 1]
They are gathering homeward from every land,
	One by one.
As their weary feet touch the shining strand
	One by one.
		*	*	*	*	*
Before they rest they pass through the strife,
	One by one.
Through the waters of death they enter life,
	One by one.
To some are the floods of the river still—
As they ford on their way to the heavenly hill;
To others the waves run fiercely and wild,
Yet they reach the home of the undefiled
	One by one.”

		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	The parents of Mrs. Young, wife of the
late President Brigham Young, were of the
New England Puritan families. Her father
Wm. H. Folsom was born in Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, and her mother Zurviah
Eliza Clark, in West Suffolk, Conn. Miss
Clark was educated for a teacher and went
west to Ohio to teach school. The father,
a young man, must have drifted westward
too, for it was in Ohio they were married,
but subsequently made their home in Buf-
falo, New York. It was there Amelia the
first child was born, August 23, 1838.
	We have neither time nor space to tell
the story of Amelia’s girlhood, we know
however, she grew up a beautiful girl, and
was always exceedingly popular, she taught
school in Omaha in the early-days of that
city, just previous to coming to Utah in
1860, and on her arrival in Salt Lake City
she was the favorite partner at all the balls
and parties; she had many offers of mar-
riage (according to report) but finally made
choice of President Brigham Young, which
is not at all surprising to any of us who
know him well, for he was a “courtly gentle-
man of that early time.” The marriage was
solemnized on the 24 of January, 1863. Of
subsequent events the public are familiar,
Sister Amelia was almost his constant com-
panion in his journeyings through the Stakes
of Zion, among the people.
	The wives previously married had homes
and interests that required the mothers and
President Young needed at that time of life
constant attention; he had endured great
hardships in early life and pioneering a new
country, founding a Territory is not only
physically wearing on the body but a contin-
uous mental strain. In his travels among
the people, the spiritual welfare and pro-
gress was not all, he could see at a glance
what was necessary to better their temporal
conditions in every settlement he visited, or
passed through; the most remarkable man
in these respects we have ever known. Sis-
ter Amelia was not only faithfully devoted to
him as a wife should be, but she was a na-
tural nurse and through her delicate effici-
ency in this respect became necessary to him,
which possibly gave rise to the current re-
port of her being “the favorite wife.”
	Sister Amelia was one of the women who
could make a home beautiful, and who loved
her own house and was fondly attached to
the surroundings; she cultivated flowers and
vines and was anxious to make the home at-
tractive outside as well as inside. She was
industrious and an excellent manager. She
delighted in making her friends happy and
loved the society of young people, but was
also particularly tender and deferential to
those in years. Her home was really a haven
of rest to her until during her last illness
she suffered so intensely that there seemed
no alleviation of pain.

[Column 2]
	During all those weary months and years
by night and by day she was most tenderly
ministered to and cared for by her own im-
mediate family. One sister remained with
her during the entire time. Sister Frances
Wallace, her other sister Louise Brown
was with her always when it was possible to
be away from her husband and children. Her
brothers Hyrum, Burdette and Hinman Fol-
som were devoted to her in their attentions
and gave all possible assistance. In fact she
had the very best care and from those who
loved her tenderly.
	Sister Amelia will be greatly missed in
her own family and by her friends, whom
she was fond of entertaining, associated with
members of the Young family, who appreci-
ated those social house parties, and on all
these occasions there was an atmosphere of
refinement and good fellowship.
	In a certain sense Sister Amelia was a
host in herself, she had superb moral cour-
age, and self-confidence and was quite cap-
able of standing alone, notwithstanding in
her married life she never had that experi-
ence.

“My much loved sister, thou hast reached the
		goal;
	The dark dull river
Is crossed, and thy enfranchised soul
	Is with the Giver.”

	Sister Amelia Young’s death was peaceful
at last after all her pain and suffering and
it must have been a happy release, and no
doubt she was warmly welcomed after pass-
ing through the change by those loved ones
who had preceded her.

	“Beyond life’s trials and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be a long sweet life unmarked by years,
	One bright unending morrow!”

	The funeral services of Sister Amelia F.
Young were held in the Fourteenth ward
chapel in this city, Bishop Elias S. Woodruff
presiding.
	The hall was artistically draped in white,
and the many floral tributes about the plat-
form and in and around the bier gave the
appearance of a festival of flowers, rather
than funereal gloom. On the stand and
platform were the speakers and many old
and faithful friends of President Young.
The services opened by the singing of
“Sometime We’ll Understand,” by a quar-
tet, beautifully rendered. Prayer was of-
fered by Bishop George Romney. The quar-
tet rendered “O My Father.” President
Seymour B. Young was the first speaker,
he paid a loving and glowing tribute to his
Aunt Amelia, recounting many incidents in
her life experience and particularly her loyal
devotion to his uncle Brigham, in his de-
clining years and his last illness; he especi-
ally blest the mourners and friends, and al-
luded to her as the embodiment of honor
and goodness.
	Miss Edith Grant sang very sympatheti-
cally, as a solo, “Who are these arrayed in
white.”
	President Richard W. Young, grandson
of President Brigham Young, spoke at the
request of the family, he gave a very concise
and vivid portrait of her character and
summed up briefly the remarkable incidents
and circumstances connected with her life
in the family of which she was a member
nearly half a century. His remarks were
greatly appreciated as they were upon mat-

[Column 3]
ters not understood by those not familiar
with the Young family history.
	The quartet then sang, “I have read of a
beautiful city.”
	Elder Heber J. Grant in his remarks said
he had known Sister Amelia since he was
six years old and had greatly admired her,
but had not been so intimately associated
as with Sisters Emily Partridge and Lucy
Decker Young, those two of the wives of
Brigham Young he had loved and rever-
enced almost as much as his own mother, he
said no higher tribute could be paid Sister
Amelia than the fact that President Young’s
wives loved his young wife. He closed by
saying, “May we all be as faithful as this sis-
ter has been.”
	President Francis M. Lyman had been well
acquainted with Sister Amelia said they were
nearly the same age; alluded to her many
estimable qualities, thought her a very re-
markable woman; she had been for some
years a great sufferer and her death was a
great relief, he rejoiced that he had known
her and her sterling integrity said, may
the Lord help us to follow so excellent an
example.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, who had
known Sister Amelia more than half a cen-
tury spoke of her exceptional ability in
places of trust and importance in the trans-
action of business, and of her rare accom-
plishments in entertaining strangers, especi-
ally distinguished people, either at home or
in public gatherings, she had often been
spoken of as a magnificent queenly woman.
Sister Amelia could be depended upon, never
slighted her friends or passed them by, she
was a strong character, an ardent woman
suffragist. Miss Anthony was very proud
to introduce her to celebrities in Washington
as the wife of Brigham Young. Mrs. Wells
spoke with much sympathetic feeling of the
bond of friendship which united them and
of the many excellent qualities Sister Amelia
possessed.
	The closing hymn, “Sister thou wast mild
and lovely,” was rendered by the quartet,
and the service dismissed with prayer by
Patriarch John Smith.
	Many carriages filled with mourning
friends followed the hearse to the final rest-
ing  place of the deceased. The coffin was
deposited in a vault. Elder Hiram Folsom
dedicated the grave, after the grave was cov-
ered the many beautiful gifts of flowers were
tenderly laid upon the mound, the last tribute
to her memory of loving relatives and
friends.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOCIAL GATHERINGS.
	About fifty friends gathered at Durham
House, Liverpool, Monday night, the 14th
inst., for a birthday party in honor of Sis-
ter Lydia S. Clawson. The evening was 
very enjoyably spent with music, games, and
refreshments. Sister Clawson was present-
ed with a beautiful silver butter dish as a 
token of love and esteem. The affair was
a surprise on Sister Clawson, and in that
respect, as well as socially, was a complete
success.
	The Relief Society of the Kidderminster
branch (Birmingham conference) gave a
concert, Monday evening, November 14th,
1910. A number of friends and investi-
gators were present. Both saints and friends
gave their services free. The proceeds were


turned over to the Relief Society treasurer,
to aid the poor and needy.
	On Friday evening, November 11th, 1910,
the saints and elders of the Paisley branch
(Scottish conference) held a social in the
Masonic Hall, 96 High Street, Paisley. A
fine program was rendered, saints and
friends taking part; also a dainty lunch was
served. The attendance was very good, and
all had an enjoyable time. The object of
the social was to promote unity in the
branch, and that friends and investigators
might become better acquainted with the
saints.
	On Wednesday, November 9th, 1910, the
Barnsley Relief Society sisters gave their
monthly tea party and social in the Arcade
Hall meeting room, George Yard Barns-
ley (Sheffield conference). Sister Jennie
Ward acted as chairman, and was very kind
in furnishing dishes and refreshments. Sis-
ter Kimberley and President Annie Benfell
also furnished refreshments. About seven
p. m. a good program was rendered by
saints and friends. Mr. Hoyle, formerly a
soldier in India, recited two poems for us.
A vote of thanks was given to all who as-
sisted. Brother Harry Quilter, daughter
Louisa, and son Charles Hyrum, came from
Birdwell. Elder John Vaughan and Elder
John Hadfield came from Wombwell.
Many friends were present. All enjoyed
themselves.—Millennial Star.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF JULIA P. LINDSAY.
	Julia Parks Lindsay, daughter of Wil-
liam Parks and Fanny Hyde, was born Feb-
ruary 2, 1824, in Livonia, Livingston coun-
ty, New York.
	My Father, William Parks, was born
March 21, 1787, in the town of Lebanon,
New London County, Connecticut. My
Mother, Fanny Hyde, was born April 21,
1790, in Bethlehem Hartford County, Con-
necticut. The birthplaces of my grandpar-
ents I do not know, but my grandfather,
Elijah Parks, died in 1790 in the town of
Bethlehem, Litchfield County, Connecticut.
When my father was but three years of age
my grandmother, Anna Beaumont, was left
with nine children all at home. Anna Beau-
mont Parks died March 23, in Livonia, Liv-
ingston County, New York, in the spring
of 1850. My grandfather, Benjamin Hyde,
died, I think, in 1830 in New York state.
My grandmother, Mary Umpstead, I have
no knowledge of except her name.
	I resided in the town of Livonia until
the fall of 1831, then moved with my father
and the rest of the family to Euclid, Cuya-
hoga County, Ohio, near Cleveland, and
sixteen miles east of Kirtland. Here I be-
came acquainted with some of the Latter-
day Saints. One of my mother’s sisters be-
longed to that body, living in Kirtland, often
paid us a visit and in process of time my
mother became favorably impressed in re-
gard to this latter-day work. My father
did not like to have them talk on the sub-
ject and finally told my aunt that if she
could not come to visit us without bringing
the Book of Mormon, and talking Mor-
monism, she might stay away. However,
she kept up her visits with us and finally
invited my mother to go home with her, but
my father would not let her go unless he
went for fear she would join the Mormons,
so he accordingly went with them to Kirt-

[Column 2]
land my father attended a Mormon meeting
and became so far convinced of the truth of
the doctrine taught, that he invited Elder
John P. Greene home with him and he
preached in our house. This was the first
sermon I ever heard from an Elder in this
Church. My mother was baptized by Elder
John P. Greene before he left our home
in the town of Euclid, Ohio, 1835. My
father did not join the Church until Jan-
uary 15, 1837. My sisters Fanny, Nancy
and myself were baptized the same day by
Elder Andrew Jackson Squares. Wednes-
day we were confirmed, as members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, by Elder Squares. In answer to my
prayer for a testimony I received the gift
of tongues. My sister Harriet was the first
one of our family that embraced the gospel.
My mother died strong in the faith of the
latter-day work and her last words to Sister
Fanny and myself were to remember the
covenant we had made at the waters of
baptism. My mother died July 6, 1837, in
Euclid, Ohio. Soon after we joined the
Church my father began to prepare to go
to Missouri and in the fall of thirty-nine
we started for the gathering place of the
Saints. We arrived in Louisiana in Pike
County, Missouri some time in October,
1839. Here we were met by the brethren
leaving the state and they said it was of no
use to proceed any farther as the Saints
were all required to leave the state, at the
point of the bayonet. Accordingly we re-
mained on the Illinois side of the river and
my father and brothers and brother-in-law
hired out for the winter cutting cordwood
for Burnet, who owned the Steam Ferry
at that place. My father and the boys
built three small log cabins near the river
in the midst of the timber. Here we lived
until spring, and as my father was a mason
by trade the people in Louisiana wished us
to move into the town which we did, and
father and my brothers worked at masonry.
The following fall we moved to the town
of Clinton, about half a mile below Louisi-
ana. While living here there occurred an
incident which might be interesting to note.
	One day as we were seated around the
table, I happened to look out toward the
river and saw a man about a rod from the
shore, walking out into the river. I knew
the water was very deep and I called the
neighbors close by to come and see this
man walking on the water. The ferry-boat
had started out his way and we were in
hopes the ferry-man would pick the stran-
ger up, but they did not take any notice of
him. We watched him until he reached the
other shore and saw him go up out of the
water, climb over the fence and go into the
timber. My father afterward inquired of
the ferry-men if they had seen any body
walking on the river, but they said they had
not. There were eight persons in our party
who saw this strange man as plain as could
be, without any imagination. He seemed to
be ankle-deep in the water which rippled
behind him as he walked. He wore a frock
coat and a stove-pipe hat. Other people
laughed and said “The Mormons had seen
Joe Smith walking on the river.” As the
Saints had no abiding place my father
bought a farm four miles from the town of
Louisiana and took his family there where
we lived until the Saints located in Nauvoo.
My father prepared to go to the main body
of the Church. He had a large family to
support and I was living with my brother

[Column 3]
working for my own support. I thought if
would be better for me to remain with my
brother where I was sure of work, I did not
go to Nauvoo until after the death of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hy-
rum Smith. As soon as I heard of their
death I began to prepare to leave my broth-
er and my associates and go to my father,
and if I could get work there I would stay.
I took the steamboat and landed in Nauvoo
July 14, 1844. I have never seen but two.
of my family since. One of my brothers
came to see me at Council Bluffs and my
youngest brother came to see me since I
have been in Bear Lake County he was
on his way to California. Shortly after I
moved to Nauvoo I found plenty of work
and accordingly I stayed, and in course of
time I became acquainted with a young man
by the name of William B. Lindsay and in
February 19, 1845 we were married, and
in the spring we went back to his fathers’
in Wisconsin, as he thought he could do
better there, and he wished me to go with
him, but I did not feel willing to go away
from the main body of the Church. I was
willing to stay and do the best I could un-
til he returned. As there was not much
work to be had in Nauvoo and we had to
prepare to live, and as there was consid-
erable excitement we expected the Saints
would have to find a home in some other
land and it would require considerable
means to prepare for the journey; my hus-
band went and returned some time in June.
The following winter the mob was contin-
ually hunting for some one of our brethren
and the Saints began to prepare to start to
the Rocky Mountains, and in February,
1846, there was a company fitted up and
crossed the Mississippi in the cold bleak
winter. My husband was called to go as
one of the guards and my sister Fanny and
were left and lived together until anoth-
er company, was about ready to start. I
had the opportunity of going with my broth-
er-in-law. I felt very anxious to go for I
had heard that my husband was quite sick
with the measles and I knew that he would
be exposed to the cold and would not have
much to comfort him and although I felt
very loath to leave my dear sister yet I
felt it a duty to go. I started in a very rainy
spring and the roads were bad. I trav-
eled a whole week and never got into a
wagon to ride. Some days we would only
go two miles. I did not overtake my hus-
band until I got to Garden Grove. He was
just getting so that he could work a little.
When we got as far as Pisgah we found
quite a number of the Saints camped and
as our teams were tired we thought it best
to rest there and make ourselves as com-
fortable as our circumstances would permit.
The brethren cleared a small piece of land
and put in a garden so that in the course
of six weeks we had plenty of garden stuffs
to eat. This was a great blessing as we
had been without all summer.
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


Queen Mary now flies her own flag, just
as does her mother-in-law, Queen Alex-
andra. Queen Mary’s standard carries the
arms of England with those of the late
Duke of Teck. It was flown over Marlbor-
ough House for the first time a few days
ago, when King George was absent and
Queen Mary remained in town.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Votes for Women Club of San Fran-
cisco believes that it has the youngest suf-
fragist in the world as a member. She is
Ruth Brewster Carver, aged two vears.
Her grandmother, Mrs. Henry T. Brooks,
proposed her name for membership, and
she was unanimously elected. The club
also boasts among its members Mrs. Dora
Whitenden, aged 85, who was one of the
signers of the original woman’s declara-
tion of independence, and who attended
the first woman’s right’s convention held at
Seneca Falls, N. Y., in 1848.
	The Equal Suffrage Club of Stanford
University has had talks on “Child Labor,”
“Compulsory Education,” “Pure Food
Laws,” etc. Prof. L. J. Martin has spoken
on the movement in England. For the
next semester, plans have been made for
the entertainment by the club of Miss C.
Jackson, Miss Fannie McLean and Mrs.
Florence Gerberding, women of wide ex-
perience on problems of vital interest.—Ex.
	It was something I do not wish to see
again, but I shall never forget the heroism
of those slightly-built women as they flung
themselves against the police cordons in their
attempt to reach the House of Commons.
It was horrible to see them lying maimed
and broken in the roadway. But they will
get the vote—make no mistake about that.
—C. N. Desmond Shaw in The Coming
Nation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1911					No. 7.


CONTENTS.
The Relief Society (Copied from Record)	49
A Tender Tribute...............................M. F.	51
Woman’s Store...........................................	51
From Over the Sea.....................................	53
A Delightful Evening.................................	53
Social Notes for February............Camelia	54
Character..................Ethel M. Humphreys	54
Spare Moments...................Maria Francis	55
Relief Society Reports:—Ensign Stake....	55
	Milwaukee R. S.................................	56
	Malad Stake.......................................	56
In Memory of Susannah P. Boothe............	54
In Memoriam.............................................	51
Resolutions................................................	56
Notes and News.........................................	51
Editorial:—The Rising Generation...........	52
	“The Cities of the Sun”.....................	53
Poetry:—
	“Land Ahead”...............Eva E. Ames	49
	Love Much.......Ella Wheeler Wilcox	50
	“Eighty Years and More”
		..............Oliver Wendall Holmes	51


“LAND AHEAD.”
Our hearts are lifted from the dark,
Our hopes are knowledge verified,
Our doubts have drifted with the bark
That went to wreck on sorrow’s tide.
The thunderous boom of breakers high,
That washed a-deck our joys, one day,
Have lapsed to soothing murmurs, nigh
The heights that lift beyond the bay.

Unruffled, calm, the waters now
Sweep all our struggles hard aside,
There's "Land ahead”—our life boat’s prow
Her straight course knows, o’er ocean wide.
Eternal lights, electric, gleam
Athwart her way, and compass true
Points on to where life is no dream:
Did we build better than we knew?

The storms may rock and winds annoy,
Wild tempests fret, and rough the way;
But, lo! they never can destroy
The passage paid to future day!
I scorn your vexing, tides of earth—
Your strength is puny, quickly spent;
Heaven is our port, and all of worth
Bides there by shores of deep content.

Already is the anchor chain
Within our grasp. See! See! The way
Is radiant, pure, without earth stain,
And leads unto the perfect day.
Ah! blest fulfillment, grief and loss
Roll backward—are forever fast:
“Drop anchor—furl the fluttering sail—
For I am safe at home, at last.”
						—Eva E. Ames.


[Column 1]
	THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
(Copied from the Original Record.) 
ELIZA R. SNOW, SECRETARY. 
	By invitation of the President of the 
Church, a number of sisters convened in 
the Masonic Lodge Room on the 17th of 
March, 1842, President Joseph Smith, 
Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards
were present. 
	President Smith stated that the meeting 
was called for the purpose of making more 
complete, the organization of the Church, 
by organizing the women in the order of 
the Priesthood. 
	John Taylor was called to the chair and 
Willard Richards acted as secretary. Af-
ter singing and prayer a vote was taken

[Column 2]
to know if all were satisfied with each sis-
ter present, and willing to acknowledge 
them in good fellowship and admit them 
to all the privileges of the institution about 
to be organized. All being satisfied, the 
names of those present were taken as fol-
lows:
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A.
Cowles, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann 
Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook, Desdemona 
Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. 
Kimball, Elizabeth Jones, Leonora Taylor, 
Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Packard, Bathsheba 
W. Smith, Sophia Robinson, Philinda Her-
rick, Phebe M. Wheeler, Sophia R. Marks.
	President Smith then explained some of 
the duties that would devolve on members 
of the Society, said they could provoke the 
brethren to good works, look after the 
needs of the poor, and perform charitable 
acts. 
	Women must assist in correcting the mor-
als, and strengthening the virtues of the 
community. Said it is now in order for the 
sisters to elect a President to preside over 
the Society and let her choose two coun-
selors to assist in the duties of her office. 
He would ordain them and let them pre-
side just as the Presidency preside over 
the Church, and if they needed his instruc-
tion, they could ask and he would be pleased 
to give it from time to time. Let the Pres-
idency serve as a constitution and their de-
cisions become precedent for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institution, let them be ap-
pointed and set apart as Teachers, Deacons, 
etc., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved and So-
phia Packard seconded the motion that Em-
ma Smith be elected President of the So-
ciety, the vote was put by the chairman 
and pronounced unanimous.
	The President Elect made choice of Sar-
ah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney as her counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed secretary, 
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant secretary, 
and Elvira A. Cowles, treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith read the revela-
tion to Emma Smith, from the Book of 
Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that 
she had been ordained at the time the reve-
lation was given to expound the Scriptures 
to teach, etc. He then read Scriptures to 
show that an elect lady is one elected to 
preside.
	By request of President Joseph Smith, 
Apostle John Taylor ordained Sarah M. 
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney to be 
counselors and assist President Emma
Smith in the duties of her office and share 
in the blessings pertaining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her 
former ordination, and blessed her to be a 
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue, and 
to possess all the qualifications necessary 
to enable her to preside with dignity and 
give such instruction as may be requisite 
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and Em-

[Column 3]
ma Smith and her counselors took the stand. 
	A lengthy discussion followed on the 
question, “What shall this Society be 
called?” Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney ad-
vocated the appropriateness of the name Re-
lief Society. John Taylor and Joseph 
Smith spoke in favor of the word Benevo-
lent. Emma Smith and E. R. Snow ar-
gued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice. 
The gentlemen withdrew their objection and 
a motion to adopt the name Relief Society 
was unanimously carried. 
	President Joseph Smith then said, “I now 
declare this Society organized with Presi-
dent and counselors. All who shall here-
after be admitted must be free from cen-
sure and admitted by vote. President Jo-
seph Smith laid down a five dollar gold 
piece to commence a Relief Society fund, 
and said, “What I do hereafter for char-
ity I shall do through this Society.” Sarah
M. Cleveland gave 12 1/2 cents; Sarah M. 
Kimball, $1.00; Emma Smith, $1.00; Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, 50 cents; Willard Rich-
ards, $1.00; John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the third meeting of the Society, 
March 31st, President Joseph Smith said 
the members of the Society must act in 
concert, or nothing can be accomplished. 
To move according to the ancient order of 
the priesthood this must be a select So-
ciety, separate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th, said he was 
present to speak upon the Priesthood as 
his instructions were intended only for 
members of the Society, he wished those 
not members to withdraw. After which 
he called attention to the 12th chapter of 
Corinthians, “Now concerning spiritual 
gifts,” etc., said the passage which reads, 
“No man can say that Jesus is the Lord 
but by the Holy Ghost should be trans-
lated, “No man knows,” etc. Continued the 
reading of the chapter, and gave instruc-
tions respecting the different offices and the 
necessity of every individual acting in the 
place allotted to him or her, and filling the 
office to which they were appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to con-
sider the lower offices in the Church dis-
honorable and to look with jealous eyes on 
the position of others; said it was the non-
sense of the human heart, to aspire to posi-
tions not appointed of God, that it was bet-
ter for individuals to magnify their respec-
tive callings and wait patiently till God 
shall say to them, “Come up higher.” Said 
it was talked by members of the Society 
that some were not doing right in laying 
hands on the sick. If they had common 
sympathy, they would rejoice that the sick 
could be healed. The time had not been 
before when these things could be in their 
proper order. The Church is not now or-
ganized in its proper order and cannot be 
until the temple is completed. He referred
to the commission given to the ancient 
apostles, “Go ye into all the world,” no 
matter who believes these signs, such as 
healing the sick, casting out devils, should 
follow all that believe, whether male or fe-
male.


[Column 1]
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to administer
to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the administra-
tion.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault; spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on ac-
count of aspiring men; said the same as-
piring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that he
should have many opportunities of teach-
ing them, they were going to be left to
themselves, they would not long have him
to instruct them, the Church would not
have his instruction long and the world
would not be troubled with him a great
while, according to his prayer God had ap-
pointed him elsewhere.
	The congregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith and their
prayers, those whom God had appionted to
lead. Said the keys are about to be given
to you, that you may be able to detect any-
thing false, as readily as the Elders. If
members of the Society become corrupt, you
must deal with them, the sympathies of the
heads of the Church have induced them to
bear with those that are corrupt, in conse-
quence of which all become contaminated,
you must put down iniquity and by your
good example provoke the Elders to good
works.
	If you do right there is no danger of go-
ing too fast, resist evil and there is no dan-
ger, neither God, man, angels or devils can
condemn those that resist everything that is
evil. As well might the devil seek to de-
throne Jehovah as that soul that resists
everything evil. You are now placed in a
situation where you can act according to
those sympathies which God has planted in
your bosoms. If you live in accord with
your privileges, angels cannot be restrained
from being your associates. Women, if
they are pure and innocent, can come into
the presence of God. If we would come
into the presence of God we must be pure.
The devil has great power, his ways are de-
ceptive. Do not be contentious, but let the
weight of innocence be felt, which is more
mighty than a millstone hung about the
neck. Meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us. 
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
vail will be rent, and the blessings of heaven
will flow down.
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible, it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
	He then read the 13th chapter of Corin-
thians. “Though I speak with the tongues
of men,” etc.; said do not be limited in
your views with regard to your neighbors’
virtues, do not think yourselves more right-
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do like
Jesus and carry your fellow creatures to
Abraham’s bosom. He had manifested
long-suffering and we must do the same.
Said, “Though we have the spirit of proph-
ecy,” etc. Though one should become
mighty and do great things, overturn
mountains, and then turn to do that which

[Column 2]
is evil, all former deeds would not save
them, but they would go to destruction. As
you increase in innocence, virtue and good-
ness, let your hearts expand, let them be
enlarged towards others, you must be long
suffering and bear with the faults and er-
rors of mankind. How precious the souls
of men! The Society is to get instruction
through the order which God has estab-
lished, through the medium of those ap-
pointed to lead, and I now turn the key to
you in the name of God, and this Society
shall rejoice and knowledge and intelli-
gence shall flow down from this time, this
is the beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned it may extend to
all the world. But your administrations
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially the mem-
bers of the Society. Those ordained to
lead the Society are authorized to appoint
officers as the circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge much
in the gift of tongues, or the devil will take
advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your com-
fort. But I lay this down as a rule, that if
anything is taught by the gift of tongues,
it is not to be received for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the sick
by the laying on of hands, said it was ac-
cording to revelation, he never was placed
in similar circumstances, and never had
given the same instruction.
	At the ninth, meeting May 26th, the
Prophet read the 14th chapter of Ezekiel,
and said the Lord declared by that prophet
that the people should each one stand for
themselves and depend on no man or men;
in the state of corruption in the Jewish
Church that righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Latter-
day Saints. If the people depart from the
Lord they must fall, they were depending
on the Prophet, hence there was darkness
in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech; no
organized society can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bodies
have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and
difficulties, the object is to make those not
so good equal with the good, and ever hold
the keys of power which will influence to
virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove never
mention it a[---] then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away. God
designs to save the people out of their sins.
Jesus said, “Ye shall do the works which
ye have seen me do,” these are the grand
key-words for the Society to act upon. 
	Tenth meeting was addressed by Bishop
N. K. Whitney, President Joseph Smith be-
ing present.
	Eleventh meeting, June 11th. President
Joseph Smith. It grieves me that there is
no fuller fellowship, if one member suf-
fers all feel it; by union of feeling we ob-
tain power with God; Christ said He came

[Column 3]
to call sinners to repentance, and to save
them. Christ was condemned by the right-
eous Jews because He took sinners into His
society, he took them upon the principle
that they repent. Nothing is so much cal-
culated to lead people to forsake sin as to
take them by the hand and watch over them
with tenderness. The nearer we get to our
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed
to look with compassion on perishing souls.
I say to this Society if you would have God
to have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other. How mild the Savior dealt with
Peter, saying, “When thou art converted
strengthen thy brethren.” At another time
He said to him, “Lovest thou me? Feed my
sheep.” The Society is not only to relieve
the poor but to save souls.”
	Sixteenth meeting, held in the Grove,
Aug. 31st, 1842. After relating recent diffi-
culties President Joseph Smith had encoun-
tered while being hunted by his enemies,
he said, the Relief Society has taken an
active part in my welfare in petitioning the
Governor in my behalf. These measures
were necessary and your influence helped to
bring about my redemption from the hands
of my enemies. I have come here to bless
you. The Society has done well, their prin-
ciples are to practice holiness. God loves
you and your prayers shall avail much, do
not cease to let them ascend to God in my
behalf. The enemy will never get weary.
I expect He will array everything against
me, expect a tremendous warfare. He that
will war the Christian warfare will have
Satan and all the powers of darkness con-
tinually arrayed against him.
	A few things had been manifested to him
during his absence, respecting baptism for
the dead, which he would communicate next
Sabbath if nothing should occur to pre-
vent it. He then offered a fervent prayer to
God in behalf of the Society. After the
transaction of some business in the adjust-
ment of which President Smith offered
counsel—he then said he had one more re-
mark to make respecting baptism for the
dead which must suffice for the present and
until he had the opportunity to present the
subject at a greater length.
	All persons baptized for the dead must
have a recorder present, that he may be an
eye-witness to testify of it. It will be nec-
essary in the Great Council that these things
be testified of. It should be attended to
from this time. If there is any lack it may
be at the expense of our friends. This was
the last Relief Society meeting that Presi-
dent Joseph Smith attended.
	During the two years administration of
President Emma Smith and her associates,
visiting sisters were appointed to search
out the needy, to find work for the able-
bodied, to receive contributions and to re-
port conditions.
	The labors of the Society were extend-
ed to the four wards of the City.
	One thousand two hundred and seventy-
five names were enrolled as members. The
recorded receipts were $415.24.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Love Much.
Love much. Earth has enough of bitter in it.
	Cast sweets into its cup whene’er you can.
No heart so hard but love at last may win it.
	Love is the grand primeval cause of man.
	All hate is foreign to the first great plan.
					—Ella Wheeler Wilcox.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“EIGHTY YEARS AND MORE.”

’Tis yet high day, thy staff resume,
	And fight fresh battles for the truth;
For what is age but youth’s full bloom,
	A riper, more transcendent youth!
		A weight of gold
		Is never old;
Streams broader grow as downward rolled. 

At sixty-two life has begun;
	At seventy-three begin once more;
Fly swifter as thou near’st the sun,
	And brighter shine at eighty-four;
		At ninety-five
		Shouldst thou arrive,
Still wait on God, and work and thrive. 
				—Oliver Wendall Homes.

Why call it going down the hill when we are
	growing old,
Why speak with mournful accents when our
	tale is nearly told?
Why sigh when speaking of the past, the days
	that used to be,
As if the future were not bright with immor-
	tality?

Who would exchange for shooting blade the
	waving golden grain?
Or, when the corn is fully ripe would wish it
	green again?
Or who would wish the hoary head, found in
	the way of truth,
To be again encircled with the sunny locks of
	youth?

It is not years that makes men old; the spirit
	may be young
Though fully three-score years and ten the
	wheels of life have run. 
God has Himself recorded in His blessed word
	of truth
That they who wait upon the Lord shall e’en
	renew their youth.—Selected.


[Column 1]
		A TENDER TRIBUTE.
	To the memory of Brother Jenkinson,
one of Salt Lake’s most remarkable men,
and hundreds of its inhabitants will mourn
his loss, and he will live in their memories
as long as life lasts. 
	He was born at Lonsdale, Rhode Island,
December 18, 1851, of pious parentage,
and he could say with Cowper—

	“Be this my boast and pride,
	The child of parents passed into the skies.”

	His early training imbued him with a
high religious nature. He was a lover of
theology and philosophy, and his many
years of blindness rendered him a great
thinker on these lines. In fact, I may say
he lived in a world where his mental vision
made many things plain to him, which we
with our physical vision could not attain to.
	He was a firm believer in telepathy and
the power of kindred spirits, conveying
their thoughts to others, whose minds and
natures were attuned to receive the im-
pressions much in the same way as wire-
less telegraphy is conveyed.
	Although miles away he was capable of
receiving the thoughts of friends, and in-
stantly replying to them through the tele-
phone, saying, “I was just thinking of you,
relative to such a subject, what is your im-
pression or idea of it, and the reply would
invariably be in accordance with his own
ideas.
	In a fast meeting in the Twentieth Ward,
he said: “I am not going to speak, but I
am impressed there is a person in this room
who wants comfort, and to her or him I
am speaking.”
	At the next fast meeting a woman rose
and said she had prayed before going, that

[Column 2]
somebody would say something that would
comfort her in the way she needed, and a
blind man stood up and spoke direct to her.
	He was a lover of animals and flowers,
and especially of birds.
	He dined at my house on the Sunday
before he died, and sitting half dosing in
an easy chair he suddenly said, “Sister
Francis, I have been listening to those
little birds [meaning my canaries] I have
been noticing their change of tones as the
sun declines. It is a low whisper they are
singing now, quite different to the full notes
of the afternoon. And the parrot—I should
like to study that bird, and find out what
amount of intelligence it has! It certainly
connects actions with words. When you
go to the phone he says, ‘Hello, it’s Polly,’
and when you open the outer door, he says,
‘Good-bye.’”
	When the sun was setting, which on that
night was particularly beautiful, Mrs. Jen-
kinson described it to him and he drank in
every word, and in his mental vision he saw
it all, and said, “Is there any dark cloud
on the horizon, or how is it?” We ex-
plained there was not any cloud, how it
shaded from pale sea green to the deepest
blue, and the beauty of the orange and red
tints with the grey and blue, and he thor-
oughly enjoyed it and remarked afterwards,
how he had enjoyed the quiet and the spir-
it of the home.
	A favorite poem of his was—

	“Life I know not what thou art,
	But I know that Thou and I must part.”

It ends with these words—

	“‘Tis hard to part when friends are dear,
	Perhaps t’will call a sigh a tear,
	Then steal away, give little warning,
	Choose thine own time, say not Good-night—
	But in some brighter clime
	Bid me Good-morning.”

	As if this wish were gratified, He was
stricken coming out of the theatre, where
he had taken his blind comrades of the
workshop for the blind, and on his arrival
at home, which he reached with great diffi-
culty, he suddenly became speechless and
passed away at 11:45 that night. He leaves
a wife and six sons and a married daugh-
ter. He always spoke in loving and grate-
ful terms of his dear wife’s devotion to him,
and of the goodness of all his children.
There is nothing to grieve for in his demise
except that we have lost a friend.
	He has obtained a well-earned rest, and
we cannot doubt has heard the, well done
faithful servant. I esteem it an honor that
I may sign myself.
			One of his friends,
						M. F.


WOMAN’S STORE.
	Preliminary steps have been taken to-
wards the establishment of a Woman’s 
Store in this city at an early date. A call
was made through some of the daily papers 
for a meeting to be held on Friday, Novem-
ber 28, at 11 a.m. in the Fourteenth Ward
assembly rooms, for the transaction of im-
portant business. The call was signed by
Mesdames M. Isabella Horne and E. B.
Wells. The meeting was held as per ap-
pointment, Mrs. M. I. Horne Chairman and
Mrs. Emma G. Bull, Secretary.  The sub-
ject of starting a Woman’s Store and its
advantages was plainly stated first by the


Chairman of the meeting and afterwards by
Mrs. Caroline C. Raleigh, Mrs. Zina D. 
H. Young, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Dr E S Bar-
ney and others The shares were placed at
$5.00 each and quite a number of ladies
came forward and took shares in the enter-
prise. It is distinctly understood that this is
not a benevolent undertaking, but positively
a business transaction under the direction
and immediate supervision of reliable wom-
en, although it will doubtless be a good in-
vestment for means belonging to the Relief
Society in its several branches, and other
like Associations, much better than allowing
the money to lie idle. 
	Another meeting was held at the office
of the Woman’s Exponent today, Decem-
ber 1st, at which further business was trans-
acted and committees called for purchasing
goods, etc., who are actively engaged in the
movement, it is expected the store will be
opened on Saturday 13th or the Monday
following at latest. 
	In connection with this commendable, en-
terprise it is expected there will soon be
dressmaking, millinery and hair-dressing
departments in which young girls may be
trained in these active industrial employ-
ments. The management will be in the
hands of women acquainted with business
principles, consequently there is little need
of uncertainty about its success as a safe in-
vestment for capital. 
	Those desiring to take shares can pay
them at the store and receive receipts for
their money until certificates of shares can
be issued. The name under which this en-
terprise will be known is “The Woman’s
Co-operative Mercantile and Manufacturing
Institution,” situated opposite the City Hall,
at 123 E. First South Street.—Republished
from Woman’s Exponent of December 1,
1900.


IN MEMORIAM. 
	Sister Alva Retta Merrill Lewis was the
daughter of Apostle and Almira Merrill and
the wife of George A. Lewis, son of President
William H. Lewis. She was born and raised in
Richmond at which place she lived until her
marriage, when she moved to Lewiston, where
she lived until her death, which occurred Feb. 
4th, 1911. The next fall after coming to Lew-
iston, Nov. 20th, 1906 she became the secre-
tary and treasurer of the Relief Society in
that place, which position she held faithfully,
until within a few weeks of her death, when
she felt as if her health and family cares made
it necessary for her to resign her position and
accordingly she was reluctantly released Jan. 
19th, 1911. No matter how much pain she
suffered or how great her trials were, she was
always cheerful and ready to turn all hardships
aside with a joke. She was indeed a true Re-
lief Society worker in every sense of the word,
and willingly laid her life on the altar to ful-
fill the measure of her creation here on earth
and as a result brought four little spirits into
this world, one of which has preceded her to
the “Great Beyond.” The last one cost her,
her life and although she seemed to have a pre-
sentiment that she was not to remain long on
earth she never once shrank from her duty. 
She departed this life as she had lived a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint, leaving a husband, three
little children, and a host of relatives and friends
to mourn her loss.—Com.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	According to press dispatches the Cabinet
Ministers in England have come to an
agreement with the suffragists and the long-
delayed woman suffrage bill will come be-
fore Parliament May 5.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	FEBRUARY, 1911


[Column 1]
		THE RISING GENERATION.
	The world outside of the Church of Lat-
ter-day Saints is getting very anxious about
the youth of the present day. Too much
frivolity, extravagance and pleasure-seek-
ing, in and among all classes of society, this
is the opinion given in articles published in
the best class of magazines by famous
writers, and it is a subject discussed in the
homes of the people and elsewhere. What
shall be done to avert the danger? How
are the young people to be convinced of the
consequences of the course pursued by the
majority of the boys and girls in their teens,
or just past that stage? To refer them back
to the times gone by seems useless; when
people do this, they subject themselves to
ridicule of a very disagreeable nature, and
do little, if any, good; but there must of
necessity eventually be a reform, and where
or how will it be brought about. 
	We are well aware that to attempt any
criticism of the present educational system
is to offend the dignitaries of colleges and
universities the world over. Yet there are
some men, and even women, who are fear-
less enough to declare these things publicly. 
As an instance of the working out of some
of the newest educational methods, one fa-
mous writer says: “I recall serving on a
committee to award prizes for the best es-
says in a certain competition where the
competitors were seniors in an accredited
college. In despair at the material submit-
ted, the committee was finally forced to
select as, “best” the essay having the fewest
grammatical errors and the smallest num-
ber of misspelled words. The one theme
which showed traces of thought was posi-
tively illiterate in expression.”
	The writer also remarks these are some
of the minor indictments, but there are oth-
er things that are not what has been ardent-
ly hoped for as the result of the “higher
education” of the present. The modern girls
are louder-voiced and more pronounced in
every way, and their boy companions are
rougher and more familiar than used to be
thought well-bred. As distasteful as these
last mentioned things are they perhaps
should not be considered ground for com-
plaint in those who are soon to be in full
charge of the world, and as a matter of
course every generation has a right to its
own code of manners and customs. 
	Possibly we of today are justified in crit-

[Column 2]
cizing when they make such alterations in
the mode of living, and of fashions and
practices as are detrimental to the welfare
of the human race. 
	The question has been asked and repeated
—“Is the quality of the human product
really falling off.” There is a sort of sus-
picion in the minds of those who study these
matters scientifically that there is a material
change taking place in the physical life, and
constitution, as well as some serious delin-
quencies, and it is necessarily very humili-
ating to contemplate, and therefore high
time a reformation should begin instead of
more and more fads. 
	The causes of these things, if they do
exist are too complicated to go into, in a
brief manner, but to the young people just
coming on to the stage of action and who
will have these things to meet, they will,
if this be true, have very difficult problems
to solve. If higher standards of excellence
are to prevail in business and in politics,
then there must be wisdom, knowledge of
affairs, fortitude, moral courage and earn-
estness of purpose brought to bear to effect
the change; and is the training in colleges,
universities, and commercial life today, the
kind of essential discipline that will help
young men and women, (for it will need
both men and women) to fight the battle
against these evils and corrupt practices that
have been and are undermining the old-
fashioned types of American life. 
	Of course, the evidence of the facts that
“the human product is falling off,” are not
easily obtainable, and there must be positive
and undeniable proofs if people are to take
hold of so difficult a problem and attempt
to renovate society and change, as it were,
the very foundations on which human pro-
gress, so-called, stands today. It is a sort
of under-current not easily caught and held
for examination, yet palpably perceptible to
the wise, the prudent and far-seeing. 
	“Some of the pleasures indulged in today
are obviously corroding to the taste, to be
frank they are vulgarizing,” so says one of
the modern authors. 
	Again it is stated, “Can anything avail to
refine children whose tastes are formed by
the colored supplements of Sunday papers,
as their taste in entertainment is shaped by
continuous vaudeville and the moving pic-
ture shows.”
	Are not these things potent factors in
children’s lives now, and it cannot fail to
have an influence on plastic human material
unless some precaution is taken or some
powerful motive brought to bear in eradicat-
ing this pernicious evil tendency from their
tender minds. Formerly the parents of
these children saw occasionally such fa-
mous actors as Booth, Barrett and Mod-
jeska, and the play of Rip Van Winkle;
now their children go to see vaudeville al-
most constantly. 
	Fathers and mothers don’t approve usu-
ally of the children being so persistent about
common ordinary shows, but they hate to
have the children deprived of the pleasures
the neighbors’ children enjoy, and are not
strong-minded enough to set the example
and stand by their convictions. On some
points they are considerably conscientious
about the children’s teeth or hair or tonsils
etc., but the soul of the child that is most
precious is neglected or left to impressions
that are more weakening and defaming than
those of the body.

[Column 3]
	With all the boasting of our civilization
and higher education what are the results in
real human improvement? How far have
we advanced beyond our fathers? Is it not
a fact that the utmost that can be done for
the child today will not counterbalance the
rapidly-growing disadvantages of modern
conditions? Forging ahead at full speed ma-
terially, this generation is woefully dropping
behind in many respects. The fundamental
neglect now is the edccation of the soul, and
this can only be effected by early religious
training; this is what the people called Lat-
ter-day Saints are professedly trying to ac-
complish, but are we as a people earnestly
striving to keep alive the faith that will
make the children of the day strong, those
elements of character to meet difficulties,
the faith that has force and fortitude and is
capable of endurance and self-denial, life
demands this now as much or perhaps even
more than it ever did before. Measure
yourselves you young people by the high-
est standard of character, and make the ef-
fort of your life to reach it. Let it not be
said of the young people in our Church that
they are markedly inferior to their grand-
fathers in every way, shallower, feebler,
more flippant, less efficient physically and
even mentally though their work has been
more with books and their grandfathers
with flocks and herds or in the woods or
fields. 
	One writer tells of a young man who was
horrified on its being suggested to him that
he might have to care for his parents in
their old age. “It would interfere too
much’ he said, “with his conception of
working out his career.” Afraid of respon-
sibility, such words as character and duty
convey nothing to young people of this
type.”
	Is it not true that in former days when
there was more work and less amusement,
that people were better disciplined and there
was more growth and developmnet of the
soul? Experience and pain have in them
great possibilities for solving the problems
of life, or of selfhood, the great creative ele-
ments in personality are responsibility and
suffering. The raw material of the work-
man must have the hammer, the chisel, and
the drill. It is obvious men and women
are here to make something of life; the
whole matter is simple if we look at it prop-
erly and adjust ourselves to conditions in-
stead of rebeling and making life harder
and more difficult by maintaining the dig-
nity of the situation in which we find our-
selves left to work out some of life’s prob-
lems. 
	One of the common sayings of the young
people nowadays, is that “life is not worth
living if you can’t have what you want, and
go where you please.” The old-fashioned
books of New England life in the early half
of the nineteenth century were wholesome
reading, some of these are incomparable
text books on the art of living, the habits
and virtues of plain living, high thinking,
and purposeful lives. The men and women
of that day gloried in responsibility.
	It seems the world is very much alive just
now, and there is a fine chance for the young
people to make a good fight for the right
and win against the heavy odds at work to
destroy the better elements of character. 
	The children of this people called Latter-
day Saints should grow up with the dis-
tinction of the highest spiritual training,


and be an example to the world. Such has
ever been the prayers of the early members 
of the Church, and that this younger gener-
ation may be even more earnest and dili-
gent with the increased advantages afforded 
them seems almost assured. But in order 
to keep up this high standard of life in 
its truest meaning, the rising generation 
must cling close to the principles taught by 
the Savior when here upon the earth walk-
ing and talking with His disciples and the 
people with whom He conversed. 
We have “The Articles of Faith” that 
were prepared by the Prophet Joseph Smith
—that are par excellence—and all the in-
stitutions of the Church if abided by, tend 
to uplifting morally and spiritually; if the 
saints lived in possession of the spirit of
that divine faith which is the foundation of 
all growth and intelligence, and the soul 
and centre of all things and the power by 
which “the worlds were framed by the 
word of God.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“THE CITIES OF THE SUN.”
	It has been said of the people of Utah
that though we excelled in art, and led in
music, we were far behind in literature.
This statement, if true, is probably due to
the fact that our literature is almost entirely
of a religious nature and not so generally
read nor advertised as our artistic or mu-
sical efforts are. Notwithstanding this,
there is occasionally issued from the press
some beautiful volume of prose or poetry
by Utah people which deserves more praise
and patronage than it generally receives.
Surely no people is richer in historical nar-
rative than the Latter-day Saints. The bare
history of the people from the foundation
of the Church, their building of cities and
temples, their migrations, their wanderings,
their explorations, their discoveries and in-
dustries, mingled with their many miracu-
lous deliverances and marvelous faith, are
worthy the pen of a De Quincy. What a
rich field here awaits the pen of some gifted
and imaginative writer!
	The reading and writing of fiction has
not been encouraged to any great extent
among the Latter-day Saints, for many
reasons. While it is the class of literature
which appeals most to the general public,
especially the youth, there is always a doubt
as to whether it is more helpful and bene-
ficial than harmful to the mind, that of
course depending largely on the wisdom
of the reader in the choice of his books.
This is probably the reason that Utah writ-
ers have produced more historical, scien-
tific and poetic works than romance.
	About Christmas time there appeared a
little volume of unusual interest to grace
the shelves of home literature—“The Cities
of the Sun,” by Miss Elizabeth R. Cannon.
The book is a collection of short stories
founded on the early history of the people
of the western hemisphere—as told in the
wonderful book of our people—the Book
of Mormon. The stories have for a set-
ting the lands of Zarahemla and Lehi-
Nephi, and for characters the personages
of that sacred book. The young writer,
however, while relating incidents in the
lives of the martyrs and heroes of those
days, clothes the stories with fanciful and
tender romance which, combined with po-
etical, descriptive paragraphs, makes a fas-
cinating book to delight the mind and ex-


cite the interest of the most languid reader.
The book is illustrated with a number of
pictures, some taken from the paintings of
that pioneer Utah artist, George M. Ot-
tinger, who so delighted in the depth and
richness of color of Mexican and Peruvi-
an subjects, and some original photographs
taken by the author herself during her
travels in Mexico.
	We trust the success of this first volume
will be such as to encourage Miss Cannon
to continue her literary efforts. She seems
to have entered a field for which she is well
fitted, and, judged by this effort, the fu-
ture holds a bright career for her.


[Column 1]
		FROM OVER THE SEA.
	We are quite sure our sisters from Great
Britain will be glad to hear of the work be-
ing done by the Relief Society in their home
land, and we take pleasure in copying a few
items from the Milliennial Star.
	January 28, 1911, an enjoyable social was
held in the Latter-day Saints Hall, North-
ampton branch (Birmingham conference).
A very interesting program was rendered
by saints and friends, consisting of singing,
recitations, etc. After the program they
participated in a few orderly games. The
sum of eight shillings was collected to buy
hymn books for the branch. The sisters
were very grateful to the friends who so
willingly helped to make the social a suc-
cess.
	The same evening, January 28, 1911, an
excellent social was held in the Latter-day
Saints Church, corner of Ellsmere Road,
and Lyons, Pitsmore, Sheffield, Sheffield 
Conference in honor of Elders Horace W.
Bond and Hyrum B. Clawson previous to
their leaving the mission field. Elder Bond
to return to Zion and and Elder Clawson to
join his parents in Liverpool. A large
number of saints and friends were present
to show their respect to the departing El-
ders. A good program was rendered and
afterwards President Rudger Clawson gave
a spirited address.
	A social concert was held January 31st,
at 144 St. George Street, West Hyde, Man-
chester Conference in aid of the Relief So-
ciety. A very fine program was rendered
consisting of songs, recitations, and instru-
mental music. About eighty saints and
friends were present. The sum of one pound
nine shillings and eight pence was realized
after all expenses were paid.
	Saturday evening, February 4, 1911, a
delightful social was given in Montham
Road Assembly Rooms, Handsworth,
(Birmingham conference) under the au-
spices of the Birmingham branch Relief
Society. The party was in honor of Elder
Thomas F. Greenwood who has been re-
leased to return home. About two hundred
saints and friends assembled to bid him
God-speed. An exceptional program of
song and story was given by saints and
friends of the conference, and a delicious
luncheon was served during the evening by
the good sisters of the Relief Society and a
spirit of harmony prevailed among saints
and friends. A suitable token had been pro-
vided for the departing Elder and it was
presented by Elder Leonard Mackay, the
response by Elder Greenwood was full of
expressions of love and good feeling for the
saints and friends participating on this
memorable occasion.

[Column 2]
Wednesday night, February 8, 1911, El-
der James A. McMurrin of Edinburgh
branch Scottish conference was presented
with a fine Scotch traveling rug and dress-
ing case. Every one present partook of the
good-will and jollity of the occasion and
manifested their hearty appreciation of their
friend and brother who had been laboring
and presiding there and had won their
heart’s love, and was now about to leave
them and return to his home.
	Thursday evening, February 9, 1911,
about two hundred saints and friends of the
Glasgow branch (Scottish conference) gave
a very pleasant social at 30, Abbotsford
Place, Glasgow in honor of Elder Lorenzo
S. Burt, prior to his departure for his home
in Brigham City, Utah. An excellent pro-
gram of songs, recitations and instrumental
selections at an intermission about nine
o’clock a dainty luncheon was served, the
Elder was presented with a fine Scotch rug
as a token of their love and appreciation of
his labors friends as well as saints mani-
festing their esteem for him because of the
labors performed in Bonnie Scotland.
	Wednesday February 1, 1911, the Dover
Latter-day Saints Sunday School had a
treat in Templar Hall, Biggin Street, at 5
p. m. Superintendent Ben. Britten and
wife, with Sisters Eldredge and Gale, El-
ders John G. Duley, Wm. L. Coburn and
others made a happy time for the children.
Lantern slides, telling stories by pictures
was conducted by Brother Britten, the lights
were turned on again and every child had a
present and all the little ones had a bag of
sweets.
	Saturday evening, February 11, 1911, a
very well-attended and successful social was
given in the Nelson branch (Liverpool con-
ference) in honor of Elder Franklin R.
Smith who has labored there fifteen months,
and is now released to come home. A most
excellent program was rendered by the
saints and the friends of the branch and
light refreshments were served and Elder
Smith was the recipient of some handsome
presents, expressions of the confidence and
esteem of the saints.


A DELIGHTFUL EVENING.
	February is the natal month of that es-
teemed and beloved Utah woman, Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, and during that month
her numerous friends, vie with each other
in showing her their love and appreciation.
	The first of a series of entertainments
was a most charming dinner party given on
the evening of Friday, the 17th instant, by
Mrs. J. S. Houtz, in her elegant apart-
ments in the Avalon.
	The guests were the charter members
of the Utah Woman’s Press Club, now res-
ident in the city, and the First Presidency
of the Church. The rooms were effective-
ly decorated in red and green, and a fine
musical program was rendered by Mrs.
Agnes Dalquist Beckstrand and Prof. and
Miss Nettleton. Mrs. Houtz, herself a
most delightful hostess, was ably assisted
by two charming daughters, Miss Pearl and
Eradne and a niece Miss Snow.
	The appointments of the table were very
beautiful; filmy Duchesse lace centerpieces
over green silk with a centerpiece of red
and white carnations mingled with ferns
and smilax, The place cards were red
hearts with the name of the guest and


“Utah Woman’s Press Club” thereon, and 
the service used was green Yeirakas ware 
inlaid with silver, while the dinner was all 
that the most fastidious gourmet could pos-
sibly desire, and the beauty and charm of it
was that the young daughters of the house 
prepared and served it themselves. 
	A beautiful little Miss of three years—
Channa Glory—assisted in the entertain-
ment of the guests with singing and quaint 
conversation. A ring with a setting of the 
Utah stone—the Amatrice, the gift of the 
Club members—was presented to Mrs. 
Wells, President Joseph F. Smith making 
a graceful and tender presentation speech. 
	The guests will ever feel indebted to Mrs. 
Houtz and her beautiful family for a most 
delightful and enjoyable evening. 
			ONE OF THE GUESTS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SOCIAL NOTES FOR FEBRUARY.
	The Daughters of the Revolution gave a
very pretty party and social on the evening
of the 11th in the Assembly Room of the
Bishop’s Building.
	The affair was partly in honor of the
junior society, recently organized and to
bring together the two organizations, the
seniors and juniors, and also a patriotic
party to honor the birthdays of the two
greatest Americans—Washington and Lin-
coln. The decorations were extremely beau-
tiful, the national colors gracefully draped
around the room, and standards and em-
blems of liberty hung over on the walls.
Dancing followed a short program and re-
freshments were served.

THE THREE UTAH PATRIOTIC SOCIETIES.
	The Daughters of the Pioneers, the
Daughters of the Mormon Battalion and
the Hand Cart veterans gave a character
ball and social in the Assembly room of the
Bishop’s Building on the evening of the
21st. About three hundred people partici-
pated in the festivities. Many of the cos-
tumes worn were very handsome and uni-
que; some wearing jewels, shawls, and
dresses of historical interest and as the var-
souvienne, schottisch, Sir Roger de Coverly
and other old time dances were engaged in,
the sight was both beautiful and interesting.
The quaint costumes, and manners of long
ago became the topic of conversation and
while some danced, others became reminis-
cent and repeated many charming and valu-
able anecdotes of the early social life in the
valley. The hostesses of the occasion were
the officers of the three societies who spared
no pains to make the party most enjoyable
in every respect.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club and the
Reapers Social joined in a very delightful
entertainment given in honor of Mrs. Em-
meline B. Wells, founder of the two clubs,
on the evening of the 23rd of February. The
party was held in the Relief Society head-
quarters and was partly in the nature of a
surprise to Mrs. Wells. About two hun-
dred guests were present and a very pleas-
ing musical and literary program was ren-
dered, most of the numbers being original.
A beautiful bouquet of red and white car-
nations eighty-three in number was present- 
ed Mrs. Wells with an original poem writ-
ten by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
	The object of the organization of these

[Column 2]
two clubs was to encourage and assist wom-
en writers and those interested in literary
work and was done October 1891-92, with
the approval and consent of the presiding
authorities of the Church They have been
the means of bringing to the front many
writers, both of prose and poetry, and the
kind and friendly criticism of the club mem-
bers has been of great assistance to the dif-
fident and modest authors.
	Mrs. Wells was quite overcome with the
many complimentary remarks given her on
this occasion, but the members of these so-
cieties never feel that they can adequately
show their love and appreciation to one who
has given them so much encouragement and
assistance for, as they express it, she has
caused them to know themselves. Mrs.
Wells was presented with a very handsome
purse and the evening was most enjoyable.
	The general officers of the Relief Society
gave a banquet and reception in honor of
their president Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
83rd anniversary Tuesday afternoon and
evening, February 28. It was the first pub-
lic affair given by the officers since Mrs.
Wells appointment as president and was
therefore something of an official recogni-
tion of her office. The banquet was held in
the upper dining room of the Bishop’s
Building and during the dinner the ladies
responded to toasts the subjects pertaining
to different phases in the life of the honored
guest, Mrs. Emily S. Richards acted as toast
mistress of the occasion and responses were
made by members of the general board.
	The evening was an open reception to
which the public generally were invited to
shake hands with the honored lady and
congratulate her on the attainment of so
many years in life’s long journey. How
beautiful it is to reach such an age and re-
tain the wit and charm and grace of youth,
combined with the wisdom and knowledge
that long years bestow. No wonder that
Mrs. Wells legion of friends delight to love
and honor her.—Camelia.


CHARACTER.
	“We are building every day,
	In a good or evil way,
	And the building as it grows
	Must our inmost thoughts disclose.
	Build it well, whate’er you do;
	Build it strong and straight and true;
	Build it high and deep and broad;
	Build it for the eye of God.”

	How do we measure or know a person?
it is by their character that we determine
their value. Our minds are given us, but
we make our character. The mind is the
garden, the character the fruits. We form
character by living right every day, doing
well every little act; for the little things
accumulate to form great things, by being
firm as the rock in the right, by having an
aim in life, and keeping it in view.
	Our acts and thoughts are the stones with
which this character structure is built. If
one stone is weak there is a flaw and the
whole structure is marred, making it more
subject to destructive elements and decay.
	What made Washington and Lincoln
great, was it greatness of mind? Not so
much as greatness and nobility of character.

“There’s something that’s better than rubies
	And nobler than riches and fame,
It will strew all your pathway with roses,
	If you try to keep bright a good name.”

[Column 2]
Let us dwell for a moment on the life of
Booker T. Washington. Even though a col-
ored man and handicapped on every side, he
overcame every obstacle and gained for him-
self a name and was a blessing to thousands
of his race, and this because of his strong
character. Nothing could keep him down.
Others felt his greatness and were ready to
do his bidding. We all know when we meet
a person with a strong character, we feel
it and are impressed with a sense of
strength.
	Emerson says, “Character is of a stellar
and undiminishable greatness. What others
effect by talent or by eloquence, this man
accomplishes by magnetism. Half his
strength he puts not forth. His victories are
by demonstration of superiority, and not by
crossing of bayonets. He conquers, because
his arrival alters the face of affairs.”
	With the end in view of helping to build
character in our children, are our courses
of study outlined and our most earnest ef-
forts put forth. What we want is men 
and women of power, who know not the
word fail. We have many examples of this
type in our nation and in our Church. Why
not more of them?
	“The mother in her office holds the key
to the soul.” Let us learn how to turn the
key which will open the door, letting in a
flood of truth and light, that the beauties of
nature and the glory of God may fill his
soul, giving him aspirations and ambitions
that will place him on a higher plane, where
the petty things of life and temptations serve
only to spur him on to greater action. The
office of motherhood is not to be considered
as lightly as heretofore. Largely through
the influence of the mother is the destiny of
nations shaped. Then why is she not given
more support and encouragement in her
calling?
	Mothers, let us awaken to our duties and
listen to the words of wisdom, given us by
the Lord through his holy prophets, to live
simply and purely, that we may make our
own characters strong and enduring and in
turn impart these characteristics to our chil-
dren, that our lives will not be in vain.

“Build today, then, strong and sure,
	With a firm and ample base;
And ascending and secure
	Shall tomorrow find its place. 
Thus alone can we attain
	To those turrets, where the eye
Sees the world as one vast plain,
	And one boundless reach of sky.”
				—Ethel M. Humphreys.


IN MEMORY OF SUSANNAH P. BOOTHE
	On the morning of Nov. 24th, 1910, our be-
loved President, Sister Susannah P. Boothe,
passed away and in her passing away Box
Elder Stake lost one of its most noble women.
	Susannah Neff Pierce Boothe was born in
Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, March 26th,
1831. She joined the Church when very young,
and participated in the hardships through which
the Saitns had to pass. She was one of the
Pioneers of ’47, walking a good deal of the way
across the plains, and with her father’s fam-
ily located at Mill Creek, Salt Lake county.
	In 1850 she became the wife of Eli Harvey
Pierce, and in 1851 she removed with him to
Brigham City, locating in the “Old Fort.” They
were among the first families to come to Brig-
ham, and Sister Boothe was identified with
the growth of the city.
	August 12, 1858, her first husband died, leav-
ing her with four small children. A few years
later she married W. H. Boothe, by whom she
had six children, making ten children in all, and
who are all living. She was remarkably strong,


never having been sick in bed from disease,
more than two days in her life, until her last
illness, during which time she suffered no pain,
and finally passed away in her sleep.
	She was a very industrious and energetic
woman, always doing something. As a Church
worker she was very active. When the Relief
Society was organized in May, 1868 in Brig-
ham City, eight teachers were called and Sister
Boothe was one of them. She acted in this
calling until March, 1878, when the Relief Soci-
ety was organized into a stake capacity, and
she was called to fill the position of first coun-
selor to President Harriet A. Snow. She was
also called to preside over the Relief Society
of the First Ward on the same day, the latter
position she filled with honor for over 20 years,
gaining the love and esteem of all her sisters
and co-laborers.
	She continued as counselor until President
Harriet A. Snow’s death, in 1890, when she was
released from the stake board, but still con-
tinued as president of the First Ward, until
Nov. 13th, 1898, when she was appointed Pres-
ident of Box Elder Stake Relief Society, after
the death of President Olivia Widerborg. This
position she held until the time of her death.
	Sister Boothe was a true Latter-day Saint,
firm in her convictions of what was right. She
was always prompt, energetic and an indefatig-
able worker. She never disappointed in one
single instance when called to a duty. She was
charitable towards all, had a cheery disposi-
tion, and always met her friends with a smile.
She was a noble character, and her memory
will live long in the minds of those who knew
and loved her.
	From her co-workers,
		Emelia D. Madsen, First Counselor.
		Emeline P. Watkins, Second Counselor.
		Mary J. Harding, Assistant Counselor.
		Annie H. Leatherwood, Secretary.
		Rose H. Neeley, Asst. Secretary.
		Lula B. Call, Corresponding Secretary.
		Fanny Graehl, Treasurer.
		Ada N. Madsen, Organist.
		Lizzie Wright, Chorister.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		SPARE MOMENTS.
	You will naturally ask what spare mo-
ments have mothers? Truly, not many,
but I will endeavor to place before you a
few ways in which a little more time may
be given her.
	The first thing is order, and system in
the home.
	A place for everything and everything in
its place, and a time for everything, each
day to have as far as possible its appointed
work.
	Every one should be trained to put things
away after using them. Children are apt
to be careless in this, and throw things
down for mother to put away. Check this
tendency at the time if possible. Train them
to look around and see what is required,
and do it without being told.
	A great deal of the cause of mothers
presence is due to want of proper training
for the children when they are young. Chil-
dren like to be busy, therefore direct their
energy!
	A baby of two years is delighted if he
can carry anything to the table for mother,
or help her in any way; encourage this,
and as they get older set them certain things
to do, that they recognize as their rights,
and never infringe on it or allow another
child to do so.
	I think a great want in the Kindergarten
teaching is the failure to teach the little
“tots” to use a needle and thimble. They
would at that time be only too glad to learn
it as play, and the advantage it would be
to them in later years would be unquestion-
able, as it would give them a love for sew-
ing.
	The usual practice of allowing the chil-

[Column 2]
dren to run wild as soon as school is out
is a source of a great deal of the trouble in
the management of the children today. Do
not prevent children having play, but let it
lead to useful knowledge. Teach little
girls to dress their dolls, crochet clothes for
them. A skein of yarn is inexpensive, and
will give them hours of useful amusement,
and prevent them running the streets or
living at neighbors’ houses.
	It will save the mother a great deal of
dirt in the house. Our children bring
enough dirt in the house, and cause enough
untidiness without all the neighbors’ chil-
dren making a thoroughfare of your home.
	Teach the children to find their amuse-
ments and interest in things at home. Our
yards in this country are large enough for
all the recreation they need. Put up a
swing, and a teeter totter, I think they call
it, for them and while the older ones are
helping mother peel potatoes, and other
various things, the litlte ones will amuse
themselves, and mother will have more
time to arrange her work.
	Let it be understood that the little ones
go to bed at 7 or 8 o’clock, and that
mother has nothing to do after supper.
That is her work time for the family, and
the time she can enjoy the society of her
husband.
	Let all the children, great and small, un-
der fourteen years, be in bed at 9 o’clock,
and no question or disputing about it. Nev-
er allow children to encroach on each others
rights in wearing their gloves, ribbons, etc.
A great deal of time is lost in looking for
things that somebody has used and not put
away.
	When my children were young we had
an old servant who, if anything was left
about of the childrens, she hid it, and gave
them the trouble of looking for it. When
asked about it she would say, Miss Mary,
if you put it away you would know where
to find it, with all the work I have to do,
I cannot take care of your things.
	If the children help in these things it will
give many spare moments to the mothers;
and if rightly used will help her consider-
ably. Have something always ready to take
up at a moment. Never be without a
mother’s necessaries, viz., Cotton, black and
white, needles, thimble, bodkin, tapes, and a
pair of good cutting scissors, which are to
be kept religiously for mothers use only.
	I once read an article in which it said
it was a husband’s duty to see that his wife
was always supplied with a good pair of
scissors and sharp knives for use. If a
mother always has her work tools ready
she can take many a stitch in a few spare
moments, but I fear in most homes, this par-
ticular part of the household appliances are
for everybodys use, and consequently can
never be found when needed.
	I knew a lady who used to go back and
forth to business, in a train, a half-hour’s
journey, and I know she knitted her chil-
dren twelve pair of black wool stockings in
those spare moments.
	If you have ironnig to do, keep your irons
on all days and whenever you have a spare
moment iron an article.
	Most mothers make over a large garment
to fit a smaller child, never trouble to un
pick it, cut the seams off and iron your
cloth flat and put your pattern on. It will
save time, especially if your irons are al-
ways ready. If the cloth requires washing
coat it with a good soaping of Naptha soap
and while you are doing something else,

[Column 3]
the dirt will be soaking out and a slight
rub and rinse will make it ready for iron-
ing, and at another spare moment you can
lay the pattern on and cut it out and it will
be ready to make up in the evening after the
children are gone to bed. Let the big girls
help you in the sewing. It is fitting them
for their future. Teach them life is learned
and not intended for a round of pleasure
and folly. Let them have a chance now and
then, to go to an amusement but do not
let them expect to be away from home
every evening, and mother doing the work.
	Home should be the home of the family
and not a place where mother is the family
drudge. It should be everybody’s duty to
help mother, she should be the first consid-
eration, and if father impressed this more
emphatically on the children it would have
a salutary effect.
	There should be a oneness in the home.
To make our own wishes subservient to the
needs of the others. Laziness in the chil-
dren leads to bad companionship, which is
the stepping stone to every vice under the
sun.
	Dr. Walls says Satan finds some mis-
chief still for idle hands to do. And why
should mothers be the only busy hands in
the family circle? Is it justice, I ask? In
last night’s Deseret News there was the
following paragraph:
	“Children should be taught to depend
upon themselves and also that they are
just as responsible for making home happy
and pleasant as are the older members of
the family.”
	Therefore, you see the mothers spare
moments and opportunities depend greatly
upon the other members of the family.
	Trusting that some good may be gleaned
from my remarks and that God will bless
the mothers and give them wisdom to bring
up their children, so that they can lessen
their burdens in these strenuous times, is
my prayer in the name of Jesus.—Maria
Francis.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
		ENSIGN STAKE. 
	Minutes of conference of Ensign Stake 
Relief Society, held in Twentieth Ward 
meeting house, January 27, 1911, at 2 p. m.
	Stake President Margaret A. Romney
presiding. Singing; prayer by Dr. Maggie 
C. Roberts. Singing. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
then lectured on the subject of Adolescence, 
or the transition period of our children. 
	A vocal selection, by Ssiter Schofield.
	President Emmeline B. Wells then ad- 
dressed the meeting. Referred to the mat-
ter of dress in early days in Utah and at the 
present time, and advocated moderation 
and taste in the selection and make-up of 
our apparel. She recounted an instance of 
one who had the reputation of being well 
dressed in very early days in Missouri, with 
but one calico dress, which she wore all 
week and carefully washed and ironed Sat-
urday night and on the Sunday, was com-
plimented as being a well dressed woman. 
Do not be depressed in spirit, she said, for 
it has a bad effect on the household. It 
would be a good thing to invite to these 
conferences the officers of the Young
Ladies’ and Primary Associations, as those 
organizations really had their inception 
from our society. The ten cent fund, she 
said, is of great importance in our So-
ciety; for out of it the General Society has


to pay all its expenses including travel-
ing expenses for the officers and General 
Board, visiting annually the several stakes 
of Zion. She recalled the occasion of the 
Jubilee year, when President Taylor do-
nated liberally to the Latter-day Saints and 
the Relief Society, gave to the needy two-
thirds of the wheat they had stored. The 
Relief Society of Ensign Stake, as shown 
by the report have now considerable money 
for wheat, and but little wheat stored, and 
she advocated that the money be taken for 
the purchase of wheat at the first incom-
ing harvest. Mentioned the American
Woman’s League, the erection of a build-
ing here, etc. Explained clearly the Na-
tional Council of Women of the United
States, and our affiliation in that impor-
tant organization. She emphasized the im-
portance of testimony meetings, which she 
said should never be allowed to be crowded 
out or neglected. Related some personal 
reminiscences of the Prophet Joseph, and 
the transfiguration she had witnessed when 
the mantle of the Prophet Joseph fell upon
Brigham Young, concluding with a strong 
testimony of the truthfulness of the work. 
	Sister Schofield rendered a vocal selec-
tion, “Beautiful visions of days gone by.”
	The general and stake officers of the Re-
lief Society were presented by Sister M. 
H. James, and unanimously sustained. 
	Counselor Annie K. Hardy presented a 
resolution, urging upon the Legislature, now 
in session, prompt and favorable action on 
the proposed and pending bills pertaining 
to the extension and financial support of the
Juvenile Court work, which was voted upon 
unanimously.
	President Margaret A. Romney ex-
pressed gratification at the visit of Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells, and prayed that 
her life might be spared as long as she 
should desire life. She then announced the 
adjournment of this conference for six
months.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation, ye 
Saints of the Lord.”
	Benediction, Cecelia S. Barker.
		CECELIA SHARP BARKER, 
							Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MILWAUKEE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	On the evening of Feb. 14th, 1911, the
Relief Society of the Milwaukee Branch of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, gave a chicken supper. The menu
included the following: Hot biscuits, car-
rots and peas, baked beans, celery, pickles,
mashed potatoes and several kinds of cake.
	The church was tastefully decorated in
red and white; small tables were used, cov-
ered with white paper with red hearts across
the center. The following named sisters
did the serving: Idell Crager, Madge Hill,
Freda Weiss, Olive Whitte, Laura Wittie,
Cecil McLausland. They were dressed in
white, with a large red heart for a cap.
The aprons were of white with small hearts
to form a border. Altogether the effect was
very pleasing.
	Those present were agreeably surprised
with the presence of President G. E. Ells-
worth and wife.
	While the object of this entertainment
was to obtain means to purchase a carpet
for the rostrum of their church, a greater
good was done in meeting strangers and
talking to them on the restored gospel and
their being invited to call at their homes.


Much credit is due the sisters for their
untiring efforts. Socially and financially
the affair was a decided success.
	The auxiliary organizations of the
Church, aided by the mutual dramatic club,
presented the branch with a new piano.
	I thought perhaps, Sister Wells, that this
little article would be of service to you in
your valuable paper. We have organized
our Chicago branch Relief Society and have
it now in a flourishing condition. Since
June of last year I have had charge of the
branches of the Relief Society of the mis-
sion, and I think a better work is being
done.
	We also have a Relief Society thorough-
ly organized in Rock Island, Ill., and Flint,
Michigan.
	I have wondered if it would be possible
for you to send the Exponent to each of
our four presidents. Of course one is al-
ready coming to Chicago president, but I
have been sending mine from here, but
they would feel ecnouraged if they re-
ceived the paper. Most of them are unable
to pay the subscription.
	Any advice or assistance given will be
gratefully received, for I desire above all
else to make a success of the organizations
over which I preside.
	Thanking you for your kindness in the
past, and praying our Father’s blessings up-
on you continually, I remain,
			Your sister,
				MARY SMITH ELLSWORTH.


MALAD STAKE. 
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held at Malad, Idaho, November 17, 1910. 
Convened at 10 a. m. President Eliza Hall
presiding:
	After opening exercises President Hall
made opening remarks, felt a great weight
resting upon her, had a great desire to do
her duty. Reports as follows: Portage,
Malad, St. John, Samaria, Pleasant View,
Woodruff. Reported in good condition, they
are following out the outlines and storing
grain, etc. Recitation from Woodruff Ward,
entitled: “Unawares.”
Counselor Sara A. Jones had a desire to
do her part and be charitable to all. Sister
M. J. Dalton felt willing to do all she could
to help the work along. 
	A sketch from Portage Ward, on the life
of Ex. President Bathsheba Smith. Annie
Sawyer gave some interesting remarks. 
Stake Counselor L. D. Jones addressed the
sisters, subject, “Be Kind to the Least of
God’s Children, Lest Ye Grieve Your Mas-
ter.” Bishop J. P. Jensen was proud of
the good work of the Relief Society, en-
couraged them to press forward. Presi-
dent Hall made closing remarks, was de-
lighted in the good teachings received. Clos-
ing song “Redeemer of Israel.” Benedic-
tion, Brother Howell. 
	Afternoon Session.—At 2 p. m. Presi-
dent Eliza Hall presiding. Singing. Presi-


dent Hall was pleased to have the support
of the Priesthood in attendance, and de-
sired us to be one of the best in Zion, en-
couraged the storing of grain. Washakie
was reported in harmony with others in
their work. Etty Morris and Mary Stuart
had a faithful testimony of the Gospel, and
were proud of the good teaching received
at the conference, and determined to follow
the teachings given. Treasurer Emma
Price gave some good counsel and wished
God’s blessings on all. Song by Mrs. Ran-
dall of Malad Ward, entitled, “Help the
Weak.’ Stake Counselor W. H. Gibbs ad-
dressed the conference, said too many peo-
ple look after other peoples business and
forget their own, encouraged the saints in
their duty one toward another, and to press
on in good works, and store more grain.
Recitation from Woodruff Ward, by Miss
Yearsley. Piano solo by Miss Benedict of
Malad. Song Verda Godwin, entitled, “The
Vacant Chair.” Brother Howell had many
thoughts of the day and the renewal of his
testimony, said no greater work can wom-
an do than this. President Hall made clos-
ing remarks, and thanked all for the inter-
est taken at this conference, closed by sing-
ing, “Count Your Many Blessings.” Bene-
diction by Brother J. P. Jensen.
					E. A. JONES, Sec.


Resolutions.
	Resolutions of Respect to Dear Aunt Emma
S. Smith, former president of Snowflake Stake
Relief Society:
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Snow-
flake Stake Relief Society, mourn with the
children of dear Aunt Emma. 
	Resolved, That her beautiful life shall come
before us; that can bear testimony that she
was true to the Gospel of Jesus Christ that
she was true to her husband, true to her family
and true to her friends.
	Resolved, That to the Relief Society of
this stake in all its branches, she has been a
Mother; her prayers and her fastings have
been for us, and for our children.
	She formed a link between the early days of
the Church even down to the present time.
	We realize that she was clothed in the man-
tle of humility and yet she was not void of
the qualities of leadership, for they have been
very befittingly placed upon her, and she bore
them with grace and dignity—as a leader
among her sisters in the great Relief Society
work, which means the enlargement of wom-
an’s sphere, the legitimate activities of life.
	She lived the principles of the Gospel. She
laid everything on the altar of her faith and 
esteemed it not a sacrifice; in her heart the
Priesthood was always honored.
	Resolved, That we thank God for prophets,
seers and good men to lead us, and that we
also thank Him for the great women, who
have, lived in this dispensation, and who have
worked side by side with those who lead and
guide Israel.
	Resolved, That we will endeavor to be as
faultless, as she has been, that we may go
where she has gone. That we may be joined
with her in friendship, companionship, and in
the ties of closest fellowship. That we, with
all her loved ones (when our earthly work is
done), may find the emerald gates of paradise 
open for us as they are now open for her
whom we love.—Lulu J. H. Smith.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1911						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
Employer and Employee................S. A. D.	57
The Home and the Kindergarten.......Nellie	58
Women in the Orient..............Ida H. Snow	59
Play by Julia Ward Howe...........................	59
Relief Society Annual Day Abroad............	61
Sketch of Julia P. Lindsay...........................	63
Relief Society Reports: St. Joseph Stake...	64
	Nebo Stake.........................................	64
In Memoriam...................................60, 62,	63
Resolutions.................................................	63
Notes and News..........................................	58
Editorial: The Relief Society......................	60
	In Memoriam......................................	60
	“The Cross—Holly and Easter Lilies”	61
	Editorial Comments............................	61
Poetry: Hotel Utah...............Julia Whatcott	57
	The Poet Soul........Grace Ingles Frost	57
	The Tangled Pas..........Lydia D. Alder	59
	March...........................Nellie Becraft	59


HOTEL UTAH. 
O thou of architecture superb
In splendor thou art builded by master minds
	and hands,
To accommodate the people of this great
	land. 
Well hast thou chosen thy home unique,
O’erlooking God’s temple, whose spirit be-
	nign
Breathes love, truth, and wisdom to all man-
	kind. 
The sun in the East, the sun in the West,
Illumines thy fair face with its warmth, charm
	and grace;
Paints pictures but one Master paints. 
Thou art an emblem of this fair state;
Worthy to receive humanity, both far and near,
Who will sing thy praises o’er and o’er. 
					—Lilian Whatcott.


THE POET SOUL.
		(Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.)
		By Grace Ingles Frost.
Borne on the eagle wings of thought ascends
The poet soul;
Transcendent o’er earth’s grovelings
In flight,
Its hand clasped close in hand of beauteous 
		love,
With face turned ever toward celestial light.

In rosy clouds of imagery doth dwell
The poet soul,
And as æolian harp, with harmony,
Grows vibrant ’neath a lithesome touch of
		breeze,
In wondrous waves of symphony doth sound
Its heart tones their seraphic melodies.

In all creation naught there is despised
By poet soul.
From nesting bird and fair-faced bloom of
		spring,
Unto the day full fraught with gloom of wrong,
From God to man, from man to insect, all
Have formed the poet’s great world-wreath of
		song.


Los Angeles, Calif., has regularly ap-
pointed as a police officer Miss Alice Steb-
bins Wells, who has lectured widely upon
prison conditions and criminal laws. Miss
Wells’ lectures are the result of her personal
investigations, and her efforts are mainly in
behalf of girls who are first offenders, her
aim being to keep them from contact with
hardened criminals and to start them on the-
right road.


[Column 1]
EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE. 
	Ever since the relationship of employer
and employee was first established, the ques-
tion has existed of greed for gold on the
one hand and human life and health and
happiness on the other. The capitalist has
been prone, in all ages and in nearly all
cases, to exact as much as possible of time
and labor from the laborer; and the em-
ployee, mindful of his own welfare, has
steadily fought for some time and leisure
that he could spend in seeking comfort and
happiness outside of his daily toil. The
one extreme is shown in the willingness of
employers to get out of their employees all
that flesh and blood can endure, requiting
the service with the most meagre pittance
possible. 
	Out of this extreme side of the question
has arisen the system of slavery, the sweat-
shop, and other forms of grinding, heart-
breaking, soul-destroying drudgery. The
bent back, striped with the marks of the
slave-driver’s lash; the pinched, starved, ex-
pressionless face; the unseemly rags; and
the servile, menial air of the laborer have
through the long ages borne witness to the
inhumanity of this extreme. And against
this system there has arisen a strong and
insistent protest in the writings, utterances,
and labors of self-sacrificing, public-spirited
philanthropists. Illustrations of this spirit
are found in such productions as Hood’s
“Song of the Shirt” and other writings.
Perhaps one can do no better than to read
this strong poem, filled with the spirit of
indignant protest against the wrongs it
depicts.

	God has made recognition of the need of
rest, in the institution of the Sabbath, and
in so constituting the human body that it
demands periods of rest, relaxation, and rec-
reation. There arises, therefore, this great
question: How far can the employer make
demand on the time and the strength of the
employee, without entrenching on this God-
given right to rest? And this question is
rendered all the more intricate and difficult
when we take into consideration the fact that
upon proper periods of rest depend not alone
the strength and efficiency of the physical
body, but also mental and moral efficiency
and the welfare of future generations. The
human body is sacred. Every person owes
it as a duty to be healthy and strong, not
only for his own sake, but in behalf of his
contemporaries and of posterity. And if one
has no right to break one’s own body down
with over-work or over-indulgence, then
surely no employer has the right to make
health-destroying demands on his employ-
ees. Human life and health is the greatest
asset in the world; and it must not be de-
stroyed or wasted even in the production of
any other form of wealth. 
	There are many reasons why this is es-
pecially important as applied to the work of
women. All money-making employment for
woman is more or less unnatural. Her real
sphere is in the home. And yet, as modern

[Column 2]
society is constituted, increasing numbers of
women are being forced yearly into gainful
occupations. I believe, too, that the tempta-
tion to employ and over-employ women is
due to the fact that because men have
framed social and financial systems, wom-
en’s services can be secured for a mere pit-
tance; and in past ages especially, they have
not dared revolt for fear of being forced
by men’s tyranny into a still more terrible
form of bondage. 
	To what extent this white industrial sla-
very is responsible for the white social sla-
very that is arousing the nations to indig-
nant revolt, we may never know. When
the girl comes out of the shop or the factory
in her “unwomanly rags,” and comes face
to face with the fur-coated, bejewelled,
painted creature upon whom lovers have
showered in fleeting moments the sum of
months of working-girl’s wages; and when
she sees how hard and dark and dreary her
own road is, and how easy and apparently
pleasant the other, I do not know that the
girl alone is responsible if she fall into the
temptation. I think the responsibility must
be shared by the man who is willing to pay
so much more for his pleasure than for hon-
est toil.
	While we may not be able to change at
one stroke or perhaps in a long time, the in-
dustrial laws governing women's work and
wages, yet we have a right to demand that
the hours and conditions of her employ-
ment shall be such as not to sap the wom-
an’s vitality and leave her unfit to perform
her natural work in the economy of the
world, if the opportunity to do so should
come to her. The true woman is essentially
and especially a builder for the future. Up-
on her health and vitality may depend the
perpetuity of a nation. What is more im-
portant, there may depend on her the ex-
istence and happiness and salvation of hu-
man souls. We have no right—indeed it is
a crime—to exchange this for a few paltry
immediate dollars. 
	It is a long step from the time, only a
century or two ago, when women were
beasts of burden in the streets and of pro-
pulsion under-ground; when working-peo-
ple were forced to do their day’s labor, and
then spend the nights beating the swamps
and marshes lest the croaking of frogs dis-
turb the sleep of the pampered “nobility;”
to our own time, when we may begin to
demand humane hours and living wages for
working men and women, with some lei-
sure in which they may really live; and not
be forced to barter living for a mere ex-
istence. And yet that long step has been
taken; and we may look forward to the
breaking of a still greater light to ilumine
the working-girl’s life. The pendulum of
industrialism has swung a long way toward
woman’s enslavement; but I think we now
have warrant for the hope that it will swing
in the direction of her industrial emanci-
pation. There are philanthropists as de-
voted and active in her behalf as have la-
bored for a worthy cause in any age; and
their work will bear its fruit. A notable


achievement is the passage by the recent
legislature of the nine hour law for women.
In this that has been done, we see justifi-
cation for the hope that all will be done in
the future that the ardent advocates of
woman’s welfare can justly desire.
	Over-work for women, then, stands con-
demned from all standpoints. From the
physical, as affecting the health of the in-
dividual and the welfare of the race. From
the intellectual, as affecting the mental cul-
ture of women and its reflection on pos-
terity. From the moral, as a natural out-
growth of the two conditions just named.
For like rank weeds and noisome growths,
immorality thrives in dank, unwholesome
surroundings, while physical and mental
development and progress must always be
the basis and determining force of true
morality. From the religious, because the
utter weariness of the week’s work weighs
down the spirit, and prevents the feeling of
grateful devotion that God expects of those
who worship Him.
	Now that we have in our hands the legal
instrument for emancipating women from
the drudgery of over-work, there is one dan-
ger to which I wish to call attention, in
conclusion. Enlarged liberty and power al-
ways carry their responsibilities. We are
now placed where we must reckon more
closely with the great industrial and social
forces of the day. What effect the sweep-
ing changes in hours and conditions of
women’s work that may result from the
new law, will have on the relations of the
women and their employers, we can not
foretell. This condition, it seems to me, will
need to be closely watched, lest either of the
two parties take undue advantage of it.
Then we are confronted with the great
problem, rather social than industrial," and
too large to be more than mentioned here,
of the use the girls will make of the greater
leisure given them. Therein is the largest
part of our increased responsibility. Leisure
may be a curse or a blessing; and in the
case before us we are under obligation to
do all in our power to substitute for the
weary, grinding work of long hours, condi-
tions and environments that will make for
the physical, mental, and moral welfare of
these girls of ours, who are our present joy
and the race’s future hope.—S. A. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE HOME AND THE KINDERGARTEN.
	How can we make the Kindergarten build
on to the home life of the child and further
develop his religious nature.
	“In keeping the attention of the child:
Begin with the line of his native interests,
and offer him objects that have some im-
mediate connection with these.”—James.
	The child comes to the Kindergarten
straight from his mother’s arms. His home
surroundings have been his world—his uni-
verse. It is there that the first seeds of love
and devotion are sown. It is there that his
first lessons in faith have been taught—faith
in the loving tender administrations of a
mother whose all-in-all he is. It is there
at that mother’s knee that the first prayer
has been lisped to his All-wise Heavenly
Father. Such are the tender spirits which
come under our care as Kindergarten teach-
ers, and, we, realizing this, should, only af-
ter the most careful and prayerful prepara-
tion, assume the responsibility of implant-
ing in the mind and heart of the child those

[Column 2]
seeds which will make of him the noble,
true man.
	The child has naturally heard of the out-
side world, but what does it all mean? Cu-
riosity, which is one of the native instincts,
is aroused. The Kindergarten is one of the
first places that this curiosity is gratified.
Here there are other children with no more
experience than he himself has. Every-
thing is new and different to anything be-
fore experienced. How is the Kindergarten
teacher going to connect these newly dis-
covered things with the previous lives of
these children? “Begin with the line of his
native interests, and offer him objects that
have some immediate connection with these.
*	*	*	*	Next, step by step, con-
nect with these first objects and experiences
the later objects and ideas which you wish
to instil. Associate the new with the old
in some natural and telling way, so that
the interest, being shed along from point
to point, finally suffuses the entire system
of objects of thought.”—James.
	What place does the teacher occupy in
the child’s comprehension of this, to “him,
vast unknown? Is there anything in the
child’s previous life to which the teacher’s
position is similar? The first step the teach-
er must take is to get the child’s love and
confidence, then her influence in the Sunday
School will be much like that of the mother
in the home. The child will naturally look
to her for help in trouble and the hundred
and one other things which momentarily
arise. This then is one of the first steps in
uniting the unknown with the known—the
assuming the role of “mother.”
	It is necessary for the teacher to study
each individual child—his previous life and
surroundings, the different influences that
have been brought to bear on him—in order
to understand what his “native interests”
are and the manner of approach that it will
be necessary to adopt. For some children
it will suffice for the teacher simply to nod
and smile pleasantly or give a friendly pres-
sure to their hand. Thie is especially true
in those who are naturally timid. Others
will allow the teacher to catch them up in
her arms and shower kisses on their rosy
lips, while such an approach to a timid child
would so frighten him that all farther effort
to gain his confidence and love would be
fruitless. Each child must be made to feel
that there is a place in the circle which only
he can fill, and that when his chair is vacant
both teachers and children miss him.
	The child should be taught by example
to have reverence for the Kindergarten
room and furnishings. This reverence can
be obtained by having a “Sunday Atmos-
phere” there. If there is that quiet, peace-
ful, subtle, indefinable something in the
room no fear need be entertained that the
child will not be influenced by it. Quiet
sacred music, subdued tones of the teacher’s
voice, soft neutral tints in the furnishings,
inspiring pictures, all aid in making possible
that for which the Sunday School was or-
ganized—to make Latter-day Saints of the
children.
	The natural instinct of faith in the child
is one of the most beautiful things in the
world. In the ideal Kindergarten room how
much more easily will this side of the child’s
nature grow and develop. The teacher
should encourage the children to ask ques-
tions of the sun and stars, the birds and
flowers and all of God’s wonderful creations.

[Column 3]
Then she can give the true, faith-building
answer—God so loved His children that He
wanted them to be happy so He made these
beautiful things for them just as our earthly
parents do all in their power for our pleas-
ure. If there is a child who has been ill
he might be asked if the Elders were called
to pray for him. Others would be anx-
ious then to tell how they have been blessed
and a beautiful lesson on prayer in faith with
its answer might be given with as much
benefit to the child as the testimony meet-
ings are to us.
	The beautiful relationship between par-
ents and children in the home—the implicit
faith in each other—can be developed and
broadened to include that of God the Father
of all. Here again we go from the known
to the unknown, and appeal to the child’s
native interests—for what is of greater im-
portance to the child than the faith in and
love of his parents. Religion does not limit
itself to mere texts of words. God is Love
and if we Kindergarteners can nourish the
seeds of love and trust and faith that God
Himself planted in each child’s heart our
work will not be in vain although the fruits
are not matured until years afterward.
						NELLIE.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A woman suffrage bill has passed both
the Assembly and Senate of the State of
Nevada and the measure will now be sub-
mitted to the voters.
	The women of Zurich Canton, Switzer-
land, have been, granted equal suffrage with
the men. The measure was voted into
force by an election of the people without
opposition.
	The Central Labor Union of Philadel-
phia, at its meeting a few days ago, voted
unanimously in favor of an amendment to
the State Constitution to enable women to
vote on equal terms with men.
	Wellesley College has decided to take up
the study of woman suffrage in its eco-
nomic course. It is their purpose to show
the girls in the class rooms what are the
forces at work in the industrial world;
which of them make for progress and which
for decay.
	The Women’s Non-Partisan Political
League of Spokane, Wash., among other
things, will ask for the appointment of
women as police officers, for the protection
of women, women probation officers, ma-
trons for the city jail, and a municipal home
for men and women.
	Word comes from Sweden that most of
the thirty-five women recently elected to
town councils are teachers, who are highly
appreciated not only for their pedadogical
work but for having devoted themselves to
their work as overseers of the poor and as
members of boards of education.
	The executive committee of the Chamber
of Commerce of Denver has taken up the
question of forming a woman’s auxiliary of
that organization. Mrs. Sarah Platt Decker
declares that if women can be organized in
this way, all sorts of industries will be fos-
tered in that city.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE TANGLED PAST.
In days of old they lovers were,
	In golden youthful days,
The world was like to fairy land,
	So luminous its rays.
He manly was and dignified,
	She, winsome as a dream, 
As side by side they wandered there
	Beside the winding stream.

The Summer with its glorious sheen
	Glints o’er the leafy way;
Still listlessly they wander on,
	Heed not the squirrel’s play.
The world of love lies at their feet,
	They enter hand in hand;
The sacredness, the holiness
	But lovers understand.

The conscious world that lies about
	Is all forgotten or unknown;
They are alone within the realm
	Where love begets its own.
A whispered word—a shy caress,
	The story sweet is told:
All time and all eternity
	Its wealth will but unfold.
	* 	*	 *	 *	 *	 *
The scene is changed—they proudly stand
	Close by the parting ways;
He loves her yet, but coldly speaks.
	Her eyes flash at his gaze.
And so they part—O cruel Fate—
	Though loving tenderly.
O God of Love, wave thou thy wand,
	Avert this misery!

They grow apart nor meet again
	Until a flood of years
Have brought grey hairs, and wrinkles tell
	Of sorrows borne in tears.
They each have by the altar stood,
	As though the past was naught—
By death dissolved those sacred bonds—
	The ties that marriage brought.

As strangers once again they meet,
	This lover boy and girl;  
She hears his voice, looks in his eyes,
	Her senses in a whirl. 
The tear drops start—unbidden flow—
	They clear the misty past,
Whose shifting scenes are now revealed—
	The ways have met at last.

All pride is gone and bitterness—
	’Tis only love remains—
Impetuous youth, and all it brings,
	Gone with its joys and pains.
They stand beside the altar now,
	And utter words at last,
That would have meant a world of bliss,
	Before that tangled past.

Now calmly floats their fairy bark
	Out to the Western sea,
Who rashly parted in the May,
	Each scorning haughtily.
The sunset’s softened afterglow
	Extends along the shore,
Out to the land of youthful dreams,
	Where quarrels are no more.
				—Lydia D. Alder.


MARCH.
	(Dedicated to my Girls and Boys.)
O March, thou’st brought so many joys to me
That I must praise, e’en though I disagree
With all the poets, who have chose thee theme
Of thought and pen, day-vision or night-dream.

They say thou’rt blustering and thy chilling
	winds
Freeze up the fountains, stream and river binds,
O’er everything thou blow’st thy hoary breath,
And coverest earth as with white pall of death.

But with thy howling winde comes bleat of
	lamb,
And thou’rt in travail, to bring forth again
The verdant green that peeps through melting
	snow;
Thy groans bring forth the spring ere thou
	dost go.


Yet not of these my pen would tell today,
But of two babes thou in my arms didst lay;
On different days and years came such sweet
	bliss,
But they were mine to give a mother’s kiss.

But ere they came to earth, upon my head
A blessing was pronounced, and this was said:
Be comforted, thou’lt live to pee go forth
Thy sons, on missions to the sons of earth.

And as each one was laid upon my breast,
’Twas healing balm from heaven, full and
	pressed,
My heart went up to Father, glad that He
Had thought me worthy of such gifts to be.

O how my heart-strings wound around each
	son,
Children of promise, sent Life’s race to run
Under my guidance, counsel and control,
Could I, with all my weakness, aid each soul

To grow, expand, aspire, achieve, and be
All that I longed and hoped in them to see?
And daily prayers went up to Father’s throne
That my part might be well, and faithful done.

Two boys sent by the Father from above;
Four souls to lead, guide, cherish, aid and love,
For two plus two lisped, mother, round my
	knee,
But dear old March brought promised sons to
	me.

Then, too, in March came I myself to earth,
And Gladys, first wee grandchild, had her birth;
Six, twelve, sixteen, and twenty-six, the days
We each remember and on which each pays

A tender tribute from a loving heart,
Which binds us closer as the years depart;
Greetings across the seas I send today,
To one dear boy on mission far away.

O Father, keep him safe from every ill,
Grant him the strength, the power, to do Thy
	will.
Help him, in cause of Truth, to valiant be,
Each added year, more filled with love of
	Thee.

And for my firstborn son my prayers ascend,
That he to all Life’s duties may attend,
Prize, hold his birthright as of costly worth,
And stand a savior of his race on earth.

Not lesser loved were firstborn girls I ween,
Each to my soul have joy and anchor been,
Companion, friend, Ive found in daughter, son.
And life has been the richer for each one.
						—Nellie Becraft.


WOMEN IN THE ORIENT.
		PERSONAL EXPERIENCES.
	Could anything have increased my inter-
est in the most vital question of the day—
the emancipation of women—it was my ex-
perience in the orient—China, Japan, India,
Egypt.
	During the late Russo-Japanese war I
was nine months in the land of glorified po-
liteness—wonderful, delightful, unique, mys-
terious Japan, where life is said to be a thing
of fun and joy.
	Wherever we went in this land of flow-
ers—Yokohama, Tokio, Nikko, Miyanos,
Nital, Kobe, Kyota, Nagana and many of
the smaller native towns in the interior—
nothing more interested me than the women
of Japan.
	In Japan the noblest virtue of women is
obedience. Woman’s lot may be summed
up in what is called “the Three Obediences”
—obedience while yet unmarried to a fath-
er; obedience when married to a husband;
obedience when widowed to a son.
	My first introduction to a Japanese fam-
ily was in Tokio at Watanabas, master of
ceremony for the emperor. Here we met
the wife and children and had our first Jap-
anese dinner—chop sticks, raw fish, sake

[Column 2]
(wine made of rice), and many strange
dainty dishes curiously and wonderfully
made. We sat heroically upon our heels,
sipping, out of thimble-like tea cups that
golden beverage for which the Japanese
have so defined a passion, and nibbling red
and yellow sweets—a repast that might stay
the appetite of a butterfly—or a Japanese.
	The wife, small,, dainty exquisitely grace-
ful, was as is usual in Japan, dumb in the
presence of her lord and master. She only
spoke when spoken to, then answered in
monosyllables. The husband, Watanaba,
was a great traveler, and could speak the
English language fluently. When I ques-
tioned him regarding his “all around the
world” tour” and asked what most im-
pressed him in European countries, his re-
ply was this: “The thing that most im-
pressed me in European countries was to
find that women had ideas.”
	The average woman in Japan is her hus-
band’s drudge. She fetches and carries
for him, waits upon him at the table, bows
down humbly before him in the hall when
“my lord” sallies forth. She may be di-
vorced at his own good pleasure. He can
divorce her for talking too much, for ill-
ness, for having no children, for adultery,
for jealousy, for disobeying father-in-law
or mother-in-law. He can have other wives
and what is still worse, if he so chooses, he
can bring home, to live with his wife, a dis-
reputable woman—a woman from the
street. The wife must say nothing. If
she shows any signs of distress, jealousy,
unhappiness, he can divorce her. Should
she leave him—no matter how good a
cause she may have for so doing—her chil-
dren are taken away from her and given
to the husband. She is left alone, no chil-
dren, no home, no means of support. What
is too often the result? She sells her soul
for food. Man is her sole food supply.
	This economic dependence of woman up-
on man is the result of daily tragedies.
	Chamberlain, Professor of Japanese Lit-
erature, in the University of Tokio, in his
book, “Things Japanese,” says: “The
treatment of Japanese women might cause
a pang to any generous European heart.”
					IDA H. SNOW.
Elgin Crescent 116
	Holland Park,
		London W.


PLAY BY JULIA WARD HOWE.
	“Hippolytus,” a drama by Julia Ward
Howe, never before produced, will be per-
formed at a special matinee by Miss Mar-
garet Anglin and her associates on March
24 at 2.15 p. m. at the Tremont Theatre,
by the courtesy of Mr. John B. Schoeffel. It
is the wish of Miss Anglin and her man-
agers that the proceeds shall be devoted to
the Julia Ward Howe Memorial Fund.
	“Hippolytus” has an interesting history.
It was written by Mrs. Howe in 1858, at
the request of Edwin Booth and Charlotte
Cushman, to be played by them. Mr. Booth
actually began to rehearse the drama, of
which he expressed a very high opinion,
both as to its literary and artistic qualities;
but its production was for some reason
abandoned. Mrs. Howe often expressed her
deep regret that the play had never been
produced, and Miss Anglin has great pleas-
use in now performing her labor of love.—
Woman’s Journal, Boston, March 18, 1911.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	-	MARCH, 1911


[Column 1]
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	It is rather difficult sometimes to get our
sisters who have not yet been initiated, to
comprehend the large area the Relief Soci-
ety covers in this and other countries. It
has been spoken of so much as something
rather small and not of much consequence,
“O yes,” some will sneeringly say, “it feeds
the hungry and clothes the naked, but when
it comes to large and broad scope, where
does it stand.”
	Because perhaps in the past there has not
been suitable headquarters for so magnifi-
cent a work, it has not appeared to those
unacquainted with its details of much sig-
nificance. However it may be viewed by
those standing outside, and not taking part
in any sense, not even to give countenance
to the self-sacrifice of those, who have given
time, and strength, and energy, to make
a success of some really worthy effort or
home enterprise; the idea has become sort
of fixed in certain minds that the Relief
Society is almost a “lost cause.” It is not
true.
	These good women are not up-to-date in
regard to what is accomplished, nor what
the Society actually stands for. If these
sisters would attend the Relief Society
meetings in their own ward or locality, they
would see how very helpful this Society has
been in relieving want in ministering to the
sick and distressed, watching night after
night with patience and fidelity and some-
times almost superhuman courage, by the
bedside of the sick or dying. What tales
might be told of the faithful and arduous
labors of self-sacrificing women in the ser-
vice of humanity; to be sure the work is so
well systematized now in almost all the
wards and branches of the Church, that
there need be no great difficulty in doing
all that is necessary in any given locality;
for the best kind of discipline characterizes
the work of those saintly sisters who give
of themselves, in all simplicity and meek-
ness, and with the utmost fidelity, the glad
help to suffering humanity.
	There is no organization in the world so
perfectly systematized in charitable and
philanthropic work as the Relief Society of
the Latter-day Saints. And besides this
phase of the work, what has been done in
helpfulness to home enterprises? Were the
estimate made it would be astonishing and
seem almost incredible. The actual finan-
ciering of the sisters in many plaecs has
been little less than marvelous.
	In the Chronicles published from time to
time in the Woman’s Exponent, one may

[Column 2]
read of a few of these detached instances,
but it is quite true of this Society “that the
half has never been told,” nor can it ever be
—but those who have served many years in
given localities are aware of what has trans-
pired there; and of the noble women who
have quietly engineered enterprises that
have been successful.
	Think of the buildings and parts of
houses and halls, and what it has cost in
effort and planning as well as in dollars
and cents.
	Think of the granaries in the several
stakes of Zion, where grain is or has been
stored, and wisdom and judgment exer-
cised in the details of this one branch of
relief work.
	Thousands of mulberry trees planted and
cultivated by the women of this grand as-
sociation, and the cocoons raised, and the
spinning and weaving of the same.
This industry should be revived again.
Although there was in years past an or-
ganized Silk Association, and it was for a
time very successful, yet it was fostered and
encouraged in the commencement and
through all the years of its existence by the
Relief Society. Sister Zina D. H. Young,
who was always one of the principal and
active promoters of silk culture was for a
number of years president of the Silk Asso-
ciation, and after a Commission was ap-
pointed by the State Legislature, she was
chairman of the Commission and was at the
same time General President of the Relief
Society.
	There have been other enterprises and
various undertakings of a beneficial nature
fostered and nurtured by the Relief Society
that have been productive of great good.
	We recall the straw manufacture business
that flourished in Ogden under the aus-
pices of the Relief Society, President
Jane S. Richards, and her counselors using
their utmost endeavors to make it a suc-
cess, and the business was carried on for a
time with excellent results. One might give
a long list of these enterprises founded by
Relief Society women, one especially that
met with signal success in Manti under the
able management of Sister Rebecca Ware-
ham, President of the Manti Relief Society.
	There came a time when the people of
Utah failed to sustain home industries and
home manufacture, but at present there
seems to be a prospect of a revival of these
“lost arts” and the Relief Society will be a
strong force in helping forward such enter-
prises as will assist in making the people
less dependent upon outside articles. The
outlook is hopeful at present, and every en-
couragement consistent with means and cir-
cumstances should be given towards pro-
ducing and manufacturing home materials
and products.
	We are well aware that the members of
the Relief Society in the several localities in
this Western land are in favor of sustaining
by every effort possible, the home industries,
products and manufactures, for use and for
wear.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	NANNY LONGSTROTH RICHARDS.
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”
	One more of the dearly beloved women
of Zion, and a historic figure in the Church,
Sister Nanny Richards, passed away
January 7, 1911, after a brief illness. A
notice of her death and funeral services was
published in the daily papers, and a picture

[Column 2]
of her was given with the obituary. Not-
withstanding the publication which will give
her demise a much wider circulation in the
community than the Woman’s Exponent, we
feel it a solemn duty to record the deaths
of noble women in the Church, and espe-
cially those who lived in the early days and
passed through privation and hardships, and
endured much for the sake of the Gospel.
We are well aware of her modesty and re-
tiring disposition, and yet she had that great
strength of character, that enabled her to en-
dure without a murmur all exigencies
through which the Saints had to pass in
leaving their homes at the time of the exo-
dus, and entering upon a journey into an
unknown country, going they knew not
whither.
	Sister Nanny was at that time the wife of
Dr. Willard Richards, one of the Twelve
Apostles, and soon after Counselor in the
First Presidency. She was married to Dr.
Richards in the Nauvoo Temple, Jan. 25,
1846, and the children born of that mar-
riage were Alice Ann, Mary Asenath and
Stephen Longstroth, Richards.
	Dr. Willard Richards died March 11,
1854, and three years after his wife Nanny
was married to Apostle Franklin D. Rich-
ards, by whom she had three children,
Minerva, George Franklin and Frederick
William. Mrs. Richards also had charge
of her deceased Sister Sarah’s three chil-
dren, making a family of nine in all.
	Mrs. Richards was what might in the
best sense of the word be termed a home-
maker; her home was her heaven, and was
a most desirable place to dwell in. Her
faith in the Gospel was most sincere, and
her integrity to its principles was unques-
tionable. She has fought the good fight and
kept the faith, and leaves a pure and un-
sullied name to her posterity, and all the
daughters of Zion might be proud to fol-
low her glorious example.
	Sister Richards was born at Arncliff,
Yorkshire, England, April 15, 1828. Her
parents were Stephen and Ann Gill Long-
stroth; she was baptized in March, 1839,
making her a number of the Church almost
72 years. Her parents sailed from Liver-
polo, Feb. 5, 1842, landing in New Orleans
a week overdue, and took passage up the
Mississippi river to St. Louis, where the
family remained two years and then moved
to Nauvoo, Ill.
	Brother and Sister Longstroth came to
the valley with the younger children in Dr.
Richards’ company, in 1848, the same com-
pany in which the other members of the
family, who were married, came also.
	They were people of means, thrifty and
industrious, and like Mrs. Richards, strong-
ly attached to home life, and true and faith-
ful to the Gospel they had embraced in
their native land.
	There can be no doubt that Sister Nanny
Richards has obtained the rest that remains
for those who are true and faithful, and
has entered,
“Into the grand and templed city seen by
	John in vision bright,
Glory flooded, needing neither sun by day
	nor moon by night.”


The suffragists of Berlin are giving “po-
litical teas,” which are attended by mem-
bers of the Reichstag and prominent pol-
ticians, many of whom are said to have
become converts to the cause.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE CROSS.
	HOLLY AND EASTER LILIES.
	I have before me the latest book issued
by Alfred Lambourne, author, poet and
artist. The title of the book appears above
and is specially significant in its meaning
of the subject matter of this artistic volume,
beautifully bound in superfine leather,
printed on a superior quality of paper, in-
deed everything pertaining to the book it-
self bespeaks fineness to a degree of excel-
lence, so much so, that one hesitates to
make a notice, lest it should not be equal
to the nature of the work, either in general
outside appearance, or the merit of the
poems therein contained.
	So extremely perfect in every line and so
exquisite the design of the setting, so extra-
ordinary is the work in its entirety that
even the pen of a ready writer would
scarcely be able to do justice to the matter;
in fact we can only recall Edward W. Tul- 
lidge of the past, as one who would have
been equal to the elegant manner of ex-
pression, of the delicately written sentences
and the outward appearance of this unique
work of art and literary merit.
	This book is the second edition of a mem-
orial poem dedicated to the departed wife
of the author, Wilhelmina Marie; it is lim-
ted to one hundred copies, not one of
which will be sold, as the writer has de-
clared in his preface: “This book to be
purchased neither with silver nor gold, nor
precious stones, nor aught of that which
perisheth, but to be given in her memory,
without money and without price, in the
name of Love.”
	As there will be no more copies printed,
and being one of the favored one hundred,
the writer feels it her duty to attempt tell-
ing something of the beauty and refinement
of the symmetry and rhythm as well as the
tenderness and withal the vivid power of
the poem in its perfection. 
	It is certainly helpful in one’s excess of
grief to be able to give expression to sor-
row in lyrical lines, that will benefit other
human hearts who have not the gift of
poesy, yet who feel as deeply and suffer
as intensely, yet have not the language to
clothe such sentiments and thus relieve the
inner impulses of the aching fibers of the
heart.
	Evidently the author has made the great-
est poetic effort of his life for the one
woman in whose companionship, he must
have realized the fulness of the felicity
which crowns the union of two beings, whose
lives are so perfectly and harmoniously
blended, as to make home a paradise on
earth.
	To those who comprehend the highest
form of poetic composition this rare book
would doubtless be considered a perfect
gem in literature. Certainly its literary ex-
cellence cannot be questioned.
	The book opens with the portrait of the
departed wife “Wilhelmina Marie,” and the
verses express the agony and excessive
grief of the heart-broken husband with such
depth of sorrow at the parting, as is difficult
to portray, or to give an idea of in delicate,
sympathetic language.
	Each page opens with an art letter and
beautiful floral design in the corner. Each
art design marks a decided change of
thought. Three introductory verses ad-
dressed to the departed “soul of his soul,”

[Column 2]
as it were, were written at Easter-time.
First section deals with the Easter-time
singing of hymns; second sudden change of
thought, and funeral of a little child.
Third speaks of direct influence of the beau-
tiful, and the passing away of art and sta-
tuary, palaces, temples in all the magnificent
cities of the world. The next part deals
with the heathen gods and beliefs of the in-
habitants of the ancient cities; most unique
in its minutest details.
	The fifth, the passing away of all the
faiths, and philosophies, mentions Plato by
name, also Buddha, and with solemnity and
reverence speaks of Christ the man of God,
and the final decision, an appeal for true
divine love, sympathy and charity and for
that brotherhood which will unite the finite
and infinite. Grandly and loftily the poet
sings, pleading for the justice and mercy that
shall yet encompass the World, referring ta
the Babe of Bethlehem who, though in lowly
guise He came, conquered death and rose
from the grave.
	In the most pathetic words the author
gives a description of the Easter lily, its
purity and beauty, and compares it with the
Life of Christ, and finally expresses the hope
that the teachings of Christ will become the
universal thought that will conquer all evil
flooding the world with glory.
	The poem as a whole covers a period of
a little over sixteen years until the last line
of the last verse, and was written in the
rapture of the supreme moments of sorrow,
perhaps in a manner similar to the writing
of “The Raven.”
	How could one have the audacity to at-
tempt a literary notice of such a poem! But
one can refer to Tennyson’s “In Mem-
oriam” even though they are unlike, but
we will say to the writer of this wonderful
poem, men are most triumphant when most
tested; and that shattered violins picked up
in foreign lands, when mended and in the
hands of a skilful master, make sweeter mu-
sic than ever before being broken and shat-
tered; and so the heart torn by sorrow and
anguish may sing in more lofty and clearer
notes and in even sweeter cadences, than
when young and brave and strong, he was
capable of undertaking.
	Alfred Lambourne’s life is richer by far
for writing this book, and he could not have
written this wonderful poem, if he had not
passed through the exquisite pain that opens
the flood-gates of man’s deepest emotions.
	The poem will live in the years to come,
and his name will be perpetuated long after
he has passed to the home from which no
traveler ever returns.


EDITORIAL COMMENTS.
	Apparently the past winter, including the
month of March, has been more replete with
festivities of various kinds than any pre-
ceding winter in Salt Lake City.
	Exchange of courtesies and amenities and
social gatherings are helpful and healthful,
and bespeak the quality of hospitality and
cordiality, and promote unity and strengthen
the bonds of friendship, and the enjoyment
of such interchange of the sentiments thus
awakened as keeps fresh and green, the
affections that would otherwise most likely
be narrowed and selfish.
	Public functions are quite the custom of
the age, and are essential to a community,
but entertainments among friends, neigh-


bors, and relatives are more delightful still,
and people of the same relationship and old-
time friends meet in this happy way, if
only for a few moments and are benefited
and really blessed in coming into the same
atmosphere,  and partaking of the good
cheer and influence one feels on such oc-
casions.
	It would be quite impossible to mention
the many gatherings of this kind that have
been given during the past few months, and
as for public functions, some of them quite
ceremonial, we dare not attempt it, even the
daily papers do not get all, sometimes to
the regret of interested parties who are fond
of that sort of notoriety Those who enter-
tain in their own homes usually are very
unwilling to appear in public print, but aside
from all this, there are occasionally matters
that one feels called upon to speak of, and
yet a certain delicacy of feeling that all one’s
friends who entertain must be written up if
any are, makes us hesitate, and therefore
the editor feels to apologize to one and all
of those who have extended to her and oth-
ers, invitations to attend so many very de-
lightful social affairs during the winter sea-
son, and would, if she had the time, and
other necessary requisites, return in kind all
the favors so generously given of entertain-
ments and social intercourse.
	The Utah Legislature adjourned, having
transacted the business which was brought
before them, and have certainly accom-
plished some very creditable work, and the
women of the city who were persistent in
having certain measures carried, although
reluctant, perhaps, about appearing before
the august Senators and Representatives,
acquitted themselves nobly, maintaining the
dignity of equal suffrage as becomes women
voters.
	We are glad to be able to state to the
people of our fair country that at last the
Legislature has passed the law making the
Sego Lily the floral emblem of Utah. It
had been so considered for a number of
years, but has now been made legally so by
the Legislature in both the upper and lower
house.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL DAY
			ABROAD.
	A pleasant social was given in the Wret-
ham Road Assembly Rooms, Handsworth,
Birmingham, Saturday evening, March 11,
1911, under the auspices of the Birming-
ham branch. Two sketches were given by
members and friends, which kept the large
audience in laughter for an hour, and then
there were character songs, solos and ar-
tistic recitations, all of which made up a
delightful evening of harmless enjoyment.
Much credit is due those who planned and
participated in the pleasant program.
	On the 17th March, 1911, the sisters
of the Relief Society, Northampton branch
(Birmingham conference), held an inter-
esting social in the hall, St. Michael’s, Road.
A good program was rendered by the sis-
ters, after which the evening was devoted
to playing games.
	In commemoration of the anniversary of
the organization of the Relief Society a suc-
cessful and well-attended social was held at
Durham House, on the 17th inst., under the
auspices of the sisters of the Liverpool
branch. A good program was rendered, a
main feature of which was a dialogue given


by members of the Birkenhead branch. Re-
freshments were served and an enjoyable
time experienced. Proceeds will be devoted
to the good cause of relief work among
the poor.
	The Relief Society of the Sunderland
branch of the Newcastle conference held
a very interesting and successful “tea” and
social in Park Hall, March 23rd, 1911, in
commemoration of the anniversary of the
Relief Society. The proceeds will be used
to benefit the poor of the branch. The sis-
ters can well be commended for their good
work here.
	Another social was held at 47 Scotch
Street, Carlisle (Newcastle conference),
March 20th, 1911. About forty people
were in attendance, and were greatly enter-
tained by songs, recitations, readings also
the trial scene of “The Merchant of Ven-
ice,” was successfully played. Ten shillings
was the sum realized.
	A very successful social was held in the
New Hall at 106 Ann Street, Belfast (Irish
conference), Friday night, March 17th,
1911. The party was given by the sisters
of the Relief Society of the branch. An
admission fee of one shilling was charged,
and the proceeds are to go towards paying
the expenses involved in moving into and
fixing up our new hall. An excellent pro-
gram, consisting of sketches, songs, recita-
tions and music was rendered. Many of
our friends assisted in this feature of the
entertainment. The sisters, assisted by
friends who attend our services, furnished
refreshments of a substantial nature. Ev-
erybody seemed to enjoy the evening very
much. About £2 15s. was realized. We
thank both sains and friends for their hearty
support.
	The Halifax Relief Society held a con-
cert on March 15th, 1911, in commemora-
tion of the organization of the Relief Soci-
ety. A program of songs and readings was
rendered. We spent a very pleasant eve-
ning, the presiding elders of the branch be-
ing present. Elder Edward C. Rich spoke
of the good results derived from Relief So-
ciety work. About sixty persons were pres-
ent.
	The members of the Dublin branch (Irish
conference), with their friends, on March
17th, 1911, enjoyed a most pleasant social,
given by the Relief Society of that branch.
The program, consisting of songs, recita-
tions, duets and a farce, was very well car-
ried out, and was highly appreciated by
the audience. The members of this branch
can well be proud of their talented chil-
dren, who aided much in making the pro-
gram and social a success.
	Monday evening, March 20th, 1911, fol-
lowing our conference, the saints and
friends of the Hull branch enjoyed a de-
lightfully informal tea and social. About
sixty people sat down to tea, and mirth and
good humor prevailed throughout. An
impromptu program was given during the
evening, and added to the sociability of the
occasion. Possibly thirty of those assem-
bled were non-members, and the social was
pronounced the success of the year.
				MILLENNIAL STAR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Women from all parts of the State of Il-
linois attended the hearing on Woman Suf-
frage before the Senate, on February 9, held
in the Senate Chamber. At the close the
committee unanimously recommended the
bill for passage.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Johannah Thompson Eggertsen departed this
life December 19th, 1910, in Provo, Utah, after
having lived in this world nearly 86 years. She
was born in Hals Aalborg, Denmark, January
2nd, 1825.
	When quite a girl she listened to two Mor-
mon missionaries explain their principles to
an uncle with whom she was visiting. These
elders, were forbidden the house, but left “The
Voice of Warning” on a side table, which Jo-
hannah eagerly read, and she became con-
vinced of the truth of the revealed gospel of
Jesus Christ. Years passed by, changes came
to her family and her mother died. She then
sought the Latter-day Saint elders and found
them in the city of Aalborg. After much oppo-
sition from relatives and friends, she and her
sister Inger were baptized. None of her nu-
merous relatives other than her sister have ever
embraced the gospel. On the 18th of April,
1857, these two sisters embarked for America,
leaving father, sister, brother and friends in
tears, while they rejoiced as the ship sailed
from the beautiful land of Denmark. Weeks
passed in crossing England and the Atlantic
ocean, landing in Philadelphia and then by train
to Iowa, where they started the laborious ex-
perience of traveling by handcart over 1,300
miles of desert, leaving much good clothing
and bedding by the way. They arrived in
Salt Lake City September 13th of the same
year.
	By inspiration, Simon P. Eggertsen and Jo-
hannah Thompson first met in Salt Lake and
loved each other, so were married February
7th, 1858, a perfect ideal couple.
	During the exodus or move south, Sister
Eggertsen was sent to Provo, and her hus-
band was called to go out to Echo Canyon to
meet Johnston’s army. After some three
months, Elder Eggertsen met his wife in Provo
where they settled and made their home.
	Intelligently they sought to adapt them-
selves to the new conditions surrounding them,
cultivating faith in God that all difficulties
could be overcome. The hour of prayer was
a sacred communion which always cast a hal-
lowed influence around their home. By in-
dustry and frugality the comforts of life were
soon gathered around them; a home was
bought from a man for clothing Brother Eg-
gertsen brought from Denmark. There was
much for these people to learn of pioneer life.
Sister Lydia Knight, Uncle Jesse Knight’s moth-
er, used to teach Sister Eggertsen some of the
arts of grappling with the hard times ques-
tions, such as making beet molasses, soap
from wood ashes and grease, coloring woolen
and cotton goods from native barks, herbs and
minerals ana to prepare and cook foods for fron-
tier people. Sister Eggertsen appreciated this
knowledge very much and in turn taught oth-
ers.
	Elder Eggertsen planted flax seed, the flax
grew, was cut and prepared for the spinning
wheel by machinery which he made. Sister
Eggertsen would then spin and weave it into cloth
for men’s suits, beautiful table linen and tow-
els, which were sold to the towns people. She
also wove beautiful bedspreads with raised
designs which she made from the raw material,
and now, after forty-five years’ wear, they re-
tain strength and beauty in color and design.
For two beautiful bedspreads, two dress pat-
terns, table linen, toweling, linsey flannel and
jeans, Sister Eggertsen received the first prize
in the State Fair in Salt Lake City and at
Provo. Not only was Sister Eggertsen an ex-
pert at weaving and teaching others how to
handle the loom and spinning wheel, but she
was also an expert at making butter and cheese,
which was exported. She was an excellent
housekeeper, looking well after the comforts of
her household. The work of each season was
strictly attended to, and therefore this house-
hold was always prepared for the changes.
	As their children came, their joys were un-
bounded and everything seemed possible. Their
crude adobe house of six rooms was made com-
fortable, whitewashed, painted, a flower-bed in
front of the house, a yellow current bush fence
around the place was trimmed after the fruit
season, cobble rock walks were made from the
gates and barns, and cleanliness and order pre-
vailed around this home. Not only were they
up at four o’clock in the morning till late in
the evening, but they obeyed the call of the
Bishop in sending oxen and provisions out to

[Column 2]
meet the emigrants. Hundreds of emigrants
from Scandinavia stopped at their gate and
were welcomed into this home, fed, refreshed
and encouraged after the long journey, and
were given employment and taught how to
meet the conditions in this new country.
	It was an established rule with Sister Eg-
gertsen, when her husband and sons would
come home tired and weary from work, to
meet them with a smile, and her gentle mother-
hands would open the gate and have plenty
of good, wholesome food prepared and spread
upon the table and properly served. Brother
Eggertsen was a very particular man, so al-
ways noted the orderly side of life.
	When neighbors and friends celebrated, Sis-
ter Eggertsen would express her love and re-
spect by verse. When the invitations came
she would have beautiful thoughts for those
whom the party was in honor of, and while per-
forming her household duties, she would write
a line now and then, thus causing her soul to
grow in love for her neighbors and friends,
and give pleasure and comfort in company.
	Her deep blue eyes, always smiling, cast radi-
ance and love around all and drew the purest,
sweetest sentiments from those whom she met,
for she truly was clothed with charity al-
ways seeing the noble, beautiful attributes in
each character.
	Sister Eggertsen was a chartered member
of the Reilef Society in the Second Ward of
Provo. She was a faithful teacher and held
the position as treasurer for fifteen years,
which caused her to learn more fully the wants
and sorrows of the unfortunate, while her as-
sistance and love was always given.
	It is very inspiring to read the sentiments
written down by Sister Eggertsen when she
received her first patriarchal blessing in com-
pany with her husband before they had any
children. On June 3, 1858, feeling strange in
a strange land. The happiness and joy which
filled their souls over the promises given were
beyond price, for they went on toiling joy-
fully, reading these blessings over often and
were happy, proving as years rolled on these
blessings were verified.
	In the year 1862 Brother and Sister Eggert-
sen received a call to go and receive their
endowments in the House of the Lord, but
their baby was very sick, so they paused. But
Bishop Scott promised them that in going, their
child should recover. Their child became well
and by receiving the ordinance they were re-
newed in life. Brother and Sister Eggertsen
have performed much work in the Temple
and Endowment House for their departed fore-
fathers and friends, and received greater
blessings in the Manti Temple, which caused
them to comprehend the magnitude of the
work of God more fully as revealed to Joseph
Smith. Sister Eggertsen says in her diary: “I
was present at the dedication of the Salt Lake
Temple with my husband and all my children,
and hearing the dedicatory prayer from the
mouth of President Woodruff, causes me to
praise the Lord for it was the happiest day of
my life.
	Brother and Sister Eggertsen attended the
Jubilee held in honor of the Gospel first being
sent to Scandinavia, always enjoying meeting
and greeting their old friends.
	Sister Eggertsen and her husband did not
neglect the education of their children who
were sent to the best schools. No work or
play was allowed to keep them from Sunday
School or the different meetings organized for
the young.
	In the year 1876, a large beautiful house was
built, being one of the most pretentious houses
at the time in Provo. All members of the fam-
ly took great interest in helping to build this
home, so it became truly a family home. Sis-
ter Eggertsen from this home saw her husband
and sons leave to go on missions and return in
honor and safety.
	For forty-two years Brother and Ssister Eg-
gertsen journeyed on together through the va-
vious changes that come into the lives of the
Saints who obeyed the Gospel requirements.
September 27th, 1900, death entered this home,
and a faithful and devoted husband and father
was called to a higher sphere. Since that time
her eldest son, Simon P. Eggertsen, has re-
sided with his family in the family home, filling
the place and assuming the responsibility of
his father as head of the Eggertsen house. Al-
though Sister Eggertsen kept up  her own
apartments and entertained her children and


grandchildren and friends when they called to
see her; there was always a restfulness in en-
tering her comfortable rooms and receiving her
pleasant greetings of welcome.
	Last October Sister Eggertsen dreamed
that her time was very short on earth and felt
convinced that she would soon be with her
husband. She spoke of leaving this earth with
so much pleasure that it was a pang to her
children. Friday, December 2nd, her daughter
came in from Salt Lake City to see her. She
was seated, writing a Christmas letter to her
sister in Denmark. Putting this writing ma-
terial away, and giving her daughter a warm
welcome, she said, “Now if my sister could
only come in and see how good I have it, what
a pleasant visit it would be, for I know I am
soon going to father. Sunday, the 4th, she
arose, as usual, at 6 a. m., and ate her usual
breakfast. Simon, the eldest son, came in and
asked his sister if she wished to go to Sun-
day school, which pleased the mother, saving,
“I will sit by that west window and see you
go and watch till you come back again, as if
you were my little children again.” She
seemed so happy, smiling so sweetly while say-
ing this, and remained on watch. At the din-
ner table she seemed to have an unusual
hoarseness, but paid little attention to it. On
the 7th of the month she did not wish to arise
in the morning, but saying she was tired, so
remained in bed all day for the first time since
her last child was born. Her daughter, Sarah
E. Cluff, was at her bedside, ministering to
every need and desire as far as possible, never
leaving her bedside either night or day. Her
sons, Simon, Andrew and Lars, were daily
callers. She requested that on her death her
hair be dressed nicely, as father always desired
it. When her grandsons called to see her she
asked them to be her pall-bearers. Sunday,
the 18th, Elder Albert Jones called to see her.
She wished him to dedicate her to the Lord, af-
ter which she said she felt well. That after-
noon, sitting in an easy chair, she waved her
hand, saying, “God moves in a mysterious way,
His wonders to perform. I glorify God that
saw the light while I was a girl; be faithful,
my children.” She passed to the unknown
country on the hill a few hours afterward, per-
fectly conscious of it all, bidding her children
good-bye.
	The funeral services were held in the Utah
Stake Tabernacle, December 23rd, 1910, attend-
ed by many relatives and friends. The nu-
merous floral tributes were tastefully arranged
on the platform and casket. The building was
draped in white by the Relief Society, under
the direction of Sister Martha Keeler. The
whole appearance denoted a delicate expres-
sion of esteem and reverence. Bishop L. L.
Nelson presided.
	Sister Eggertsen is survived by three sons,
Simon P., Andrew and Lars E. Eggertsen, Sis-
ter Sarah E. Cluff, the only daughter, twenty-
four grandchildren and six great grandchildren.
	The pallbearers were Sister Eggertsen’s
grandsons, Echart A. Eggertsen, L. Eggertsen
Cluff, Claud Eggertson, Bernard S. Eggertson,
Burton S. Eggertson, and Luther E. Eggertsen.
				Sarah Eggertsen Cluff.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Emma S. West Smith, one of the noted pio-
neers of Iron county, Utah, and of Arizona,
died at her home in Snowflake, Ariz., Oct. 15,
1910, after a brief illness.
	She was the daughter of Samuel and Mar-
garet Cooper West, and was born Jan. 3,
1836. Benton County, Tenn.
	At the time of her birth her parents were
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. As a child she endured all
the hardships of the people in their mobbings
and expulsion from Illinois. She also endured
all the privations of the people of the West,
having emigrated to Utah in 1850. She was
among the first settlers of Parowan, Iron
County, Utah, where she met and married Jesse
N. Smith, in May, 1852, and with whom she
lived for fifty-four years, he having died four
years ago.
	Being a pioneer all her life she was schooled
in economy and self-denial; self-sacrifice was a
part of her nature. She always had words of
comfort and cheer wherever she went.
	Her husband was called to perform a mis-
sion of four years to Denmark, leaving the
wife with four small children. After his de-
parture his second wife and her sister, Mar-


garet died, leaving two children, these she
cared for together with eight motherless chil-
dren of her husband’s brother, Silas Smith.
	Her husband was called to a second mission
of two years, but through it all she worked no-
bly and faithfully.
	She was President of the Parowan Relief
Society for a number of years.
	From Parowan they moved to Snowflake,
Ariz., in 1880. In July of the same year she was
chosen counselor to the stake president of Re-
lief Society of the Eastern Arizona stake and
in 1883 became President. When the stake
was divided, Dec. 18, 1887, she was made
President of the Snowflake Stake Relief Soci-
ety, in which office she faithfully served until
August, 1905, when she was honorably re-
leased on account of failing health. She, how-
ever, never gave up Relief Society work, but
was always faithful and true.
	She was the mother of nine children, all of
whom she raised to maturity, three of whom
preceded her to the great beyond.
	Her husband was the husband of four other
wives, three of whom lived by her all the latter
part of her life.
	She was surrounded by her children and
friends when death came, and all that kind
hearts and loving hands could do was done for
her. While we mourn her loss we feel she is
simply sleeping, that her intelligent part has
gone to a brighter sphere where the just await
the time of their redemption and where her
crown of glory awaits her.
	The funeral services were impressive and
beautiful. Aunt Janet M. Smith volunteered
to make a statement about as follows: “I
lived in plural marriage with Aunt Emma for
over forty years. We have had our ups and
downs, we have cried together, we have re-
joiced together. I love her children nearly as
my own. I love Aunt Emma. I know she
was a true woman and I thank the Lord that
it was my lot to live in the celestial order of
marriage with such women.” At the funeral,
many words of praise were given by those who
knew her best. Resolutions of respect were
written and read by Stake President of Relief
Society Mary J. R. West which were very
much appreciated by the family, and which
have been copied in the Stake Relief Society
record.
					Lulu J. H. Smith.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sarah Henderson Lindsay, daughter of
James Henderson, and Anna Harris Hender-
son, died at the home of her daughter, Mrs.
F. W. Hurst, of Paris, Idaho, March 4, 1911,
at the age of 75 years. She was born at Jack-
son County, Missouri, July 24, 1836. When
she was six years of age her parents died,
and the family of ten children were separated.
She saw the Prophet Joseph Smith many
times. In the year 1849 she crossed the plains,
having walked most of the way. She mar-
ried William B. Lindsay, and settled in Kays-
ville, Utah. She came to Bear Lake County,
Idaho, in 1863, and suffered many hardships.
She was a member of the presidency of the
Relief Society for 30 years, and died in full
faith of the Gospel. She was the mother of
eight children, and had 63 grand-children, and
21 great grand-children.


RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions of respect, by the officers and
members of the Paris Second Ward Relief
Society, to the memory of our departed sis-
ter, Sarah Lindsay, who died March 4th. 1911:
	Whereas, our heavenly Father has seen fit
to take to Himself our beloved sister, who
was always faithful in the cause of right, and
full of charity and humility; and,
	Whereas her position as a counselor in this
Society in the nearly thirty years makes it
fitting for us to record our appreciation of
her untiring labors, therefore,
	Be it Resolver, that we deeply mourn the
loss of a devoted laborer and tender our
sympathies to the children and relatives of
the deceased. 
	Resolved, that in our natural sorrow for her
death, we find consolation in the knowledge
that “all is well with her,” she was prepared
to enter the realms of our Father.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions
be sent to the family and a copy recorded in
the records of this Society.—Com.


SKETCH OF JULIA P. LINDSAY.
		(Continued from page 47.)
	While we were at Pisgah there came a
call for five hundred of our brethren to go
to form a battalion. My husband was called
to be one of this number. This seemed
quite a trial for me after his being so long
away, but I was willing that he should go.
After he had gone I felt very lonely, and
one day there was a sister whose home
was not far from us, came over to see us.
She was a stranger to us but all felt pleased
to see her. She possessed such a good in-
fluence and asked me if I would sing. I
had such a bad cold I could not sing so she
arose, came to me and placed her hands up-
on my head and blessed me. She told me
to let my heart be comforted for I should
live to see my husband return home and
that I would have many things made known
to me in dreams and that I should live to
see many happy days in time and in eter-
nity with my husband. This was a great
comfort to me.
	In a few weeks my husband returned as
the company was completed without him
when they reached Council Bluffs. Our
next thought was what to do, we were there
without provisions for the winter and had
no means to go to the Valley. Their fath-
er’s family had grown tired of living in
Wisconsin and thought it best to go back to
their old home and get money to go to the
Valley. Accordingly we started in August
for Wisconsin, a distance of several hun-
dred miles. There were four grown people
and a babe ten months old. I had some very
singular feelings when we started back, I
knew we could not go to the Valley with-
out money and other provisions, and I tried
to think it would be all for the best and that
God would bless our labor and we should
again return and go to the Valley. There
are a few incidents which happened on this
journey that I will relate. We had trav-
eled that day until quite late and thought
we would camp a mile out of town where
feed for the cattle was plentiful. We in-
tended to get up early and go into the city
before breakfast. In the morning our cat-
tle could not be found. We hunted all day
and at night my brother-in-law said to me,
“I wish you would dream tonight where
our cattle are.” In the morning I asked
him if they had looked back of a large field
which was about a mile away. They said
they had looked that field over. I told them
I had dreamed that I saw the cattle lying
down by the field. They went to the field
again and found the cattle lying down as
I had dreamed of them. They had entered
the field, eaten all they wanted, came out
and laid down. After traveling a few days
we were to cross a prairie some twenty-
five miles in width. One road if followed
would take us the right way and make our
journey shorter. We started, but as we
traveled the road marks became dim so that
we could scarcely see where to go. Night
came on and we camped without either wa-
ter or wood in a great prairie in a strange
land. That night I dreamed that when we
were ready to again proceed on our journey
the brother handed my husband the whip
and asked him to drive while he went to
find a road. He walked about half a mile
and stopped, and I suppose he had found a
road. When we came up to him the road
was plain to be seen and he said, I have
found a road but I do not know which way


to go.” I said to him, “Which way do you
think is best.” His answer was, “The north
road.” I said I did not think it, to be the
best road. He seemed determined to go
that way, but I said if you will go half a
mile my way and you do not see any signs
of improvements I will be willing to go the
way you said. At last he said that as it
would not take long he would try my way.
I dreamed we soon reached a fence and a
house. We found the house to be a short
distance from the state road. If we had
gone north the road would have led us twen-
ty-five miles into a dense forest. I awoke
in the morning and as the two brothers were
preparing to start I told my sister-in-law
my dream and cautioned her not to tell the
boys but to wait and see if things led up to
the dream. Everything that I had dreamed
was fulfilled just as I have related. We were
soon on the right road and in a few days ar-
rived at our destination. We found father
and mother both sick in bed. They had not
known we were coming but had heard of
their son’s call to the battalion and feared
they would never see them again. The
family were very much overjoyed at seeing
us, although I had not met them before I
felt satisfied. I felt to thank my Heavenly
Father for His kindness and protection on
our journey.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		St. Joseph Stake.
	A conference of the Relief Society of
the St. Joseph Stake was held at the
Thatcher Assembly Hall, March 10th, 1911.
As visitors on the stand were President An-
drew Kimball and Counselors, Patriarch S.
Claridge, H. G. Allred and a number
of other brethren. Elizabeth W. Layton,
Stake President of Relief Society, with
Counselor Fanny Kimball and members of
board.
	A good program was rendered in which
talks on Relief Society work, instrumental
and vocal music, reports, etc., were given. 
President E. W. Layton presided. First
Counselor Salina Phillips was excused on
account of being very ill. Sister May C.
Welsh presided at the organ, and Effie R.
Montierth led the singing.
	Meeting opened with the hymn, “Now Let
Us Rejoice.” Prayer by Bishop Frank Tyler.
Singing, “Come let us anew,” etc. In her
opening address, President Elizabeth W.
Layton welcomed the sisters, was glad to
see such a good representation of the Relief
Society, hoped the spirit of love and hu-
mility would characterize this conference
as it had on former occasions. Said
one reason we meet together was to devise a
more harmonious way of preparing and pre-
senting our lessons, unifying our work, and
getting better acquainted with all details
of the same and each other. Advised the
sisters to be diligent in all that is required
of them. Spoke in the highest terms of her
co-workers, that the greatest love and es-
teem prevailed among the board. Urged
that we do not waste our time in reading
that which will not benefit us, but at all
times reach out and give a helping hand to
advance those more unfortunate than our-
selves.
	The report was read and accepted. The
secretary gave a summary of the lessons for

[Column 2]
the past year, and also some helpful hints
and suggestions for our future study. The
Book of Doctrine and Covenants has been
taken up along with Church History and re-
cited in our work meetings.
	An appropriate vocal selection was given
by Josie Follet of Pima. President Andrew
Kimball felt that the calling of the Relief
Society members was a noble one, and the
organization was one that could not be dis-
pensed with. Spoke of the privations of
early days, but believed that each generation
is in part qualified for the conditions of
their particular day; compared the advan-
tages of the young today with fifty years
ago, and hoped that we appreciated the great
development of the present; that we will
train and develop the character of our chil-
dren for what will assuredly devolve upon
them.
	The Layton, Thatcher, and Central wards
were reported in a very thriving condition
by their respective presidents.
	Dianah Allen of the board, gave a good
talk to the mothers, encouraged them to be
faithful and watchful of their children and
keep that tender parental love green, which
is ever a safeguard to our boys and girls.
	Doxology was sung, and meeting ad-
journed till 2 p. m., benediction by J. G.
Allred.
	Afternoon Session.—Began by singing.
Prayer by Elizabeth Moody. Singing.
Counselor Fanny Kimball spoke of Annual
Day, its’ origin, the progression of the So-
ciety since its inception, and the ultimate
good to be derived therefrom. Desired that
all the wards celebrate the coming Annual
Day in a fitting and appropriate way.
	A recitation, “The Martyrdom of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith,” was given by Sister
Ella Cluff Birdno.
	Patriarch S. J. Claridge gave a splendid
talk. Spoke with pride of the progress of
the women in general. Sister Mary Taylor
loved the work of the Lord. Thought if we
lived up to the light and intelligence given
us, keep humble and never forget our
prayers, we could not go far astray. J. G.
Allred spoke a few kindly encouraging
words.
	Inez Lee spoke of the progress of the
women comparing their advantages today
with fifty years ago.
	A sacred solo was rendered by Lottie Lar-
son and Effie Montierth.
	Sister Laura Nuttall, Stake President Y.
L M. I. A., appealed to the mothers to guard
their daughters with a mantle of love and
charity and watchfulness that they might
be kept from the evils that lie in wait for
them. Said we should encourage our boys
and girls to give us their confidence and be
sure to set a correct example before them.
Prayed the Lord to give us wisdom in our
dealings with the young people.
	Conference adjourned sine die.
	Singing, “The Time is Far Spent.”
Benediction by President C. M. Layton.
	JOSEPHINE E. KIMBALL, Secy.

[Column 3]
		NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Nebo Stake Relief Society
Conference, held December 16 at Salem.
10:30 a. m. President Eliza J. Dixon,
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises, Sister Mary Pierce, President of Sa-
lem, spoke a few words of welcome. Sis-
ter Kapple gave in a report of Nebo Stake
Relief Society,—all the wards visited twice
during the year except the Tintic district,
held four conferences—she encouraged the
sisters to do their duty.
	Sister Hallem of Spanish Fork Third
Ward spoke a short time on the duties of
the Relief Society sisters. Their duty not
only to look after the poor and the sick, but
to look after the morals of the young, we
should allow our boys and girls to bring
their cmpanions to their homes, and no
room in the house should be too good for
them. She also spoke of the counsel the
Prophet Joseph Smith gave to the Relief
Society.
	Song by Sister Fern Stone and others.
	A lesson was given by members of Pay-
son First Ward Relief Society, on Spiritual
Growth.
	After singing, “Praise to the Man,” bene-
diction was given by Brother Christianson,
and conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon Session.—Sister Martha Kap-
ple presiding; President Dixon in charge.
Singing, “Daughters of Zion.” Prayer—
Brother Joseph Hanks. Singing, “The
Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning.”
Other usual exercises.
	Sister Brockbank spoke for some time
on Christmas and what it means, if we
have the true Christmas spirit; we should
have no feelings against any one, and read
a poem, “Only a Drop in the Bucket.” We
should cultivate the spirit of giving rather
than receiving.
	Recitation, “Marjorie’s Christmas Tree,”
by Tillie Nelson.
	President Henry Gardner spoke for some
time on Relief Society work, said it was
sixty-eight years since it was organized
as one of the helps to the Church; spoke
of the great work that the sisters had ac-
complished among the sick and afflicted,
the poor and needy; it would never be
known all that had been done until we
meet in another sphere. He also spoke for
some time of the young people and how we
should care for them, for the work will
fall on their shoulders and they will take it
up as we have done, and carry it just as
faithfully.
	Duet, Sisters Emma Holder and Matilda
Hanks, entitled “Larboard Watch.”
	Sister Dixon made a few closing re-
marks and commended the sisters for their
diligent work in the several wards in the
stake; thanked the people of Salem for their
hospitality. After singing, benediction was
pronounced by Brother Christianson. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
				Corresponding Secretary.
	Payson, Utah.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY.
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1911						No. 9.


CONTENTS.
The Temperance Question...........Jos.  F. Smith	65
Do We Want Prohibition?..................................
..........................................Annie Wells Cannon	67
General Relief Society Conference.....A. W. C.	69
Relief Society Entertainment.............................	70
Women and Labor ............................................	70
Sketch of Julia P. Lindsay..................................	70
Sons of Revolution Cheer Women....................	72
Household Hints..................................A. W. C.	72
Relief Society Reports: Utah Stake...................	66
	       Granite  Stake.....................................	72
In Memoriam.....................................................	72
Editorial: Scientists and Philosophers...............	68
	Select Writings .........................................	68
	A Veteran Woman......................................	69
Notes and News .........................................65, 66,	72
Poetry: Some Day............................Helen Hunt	65
	Mother..............................Lillian Whatcott	65 
	The Old Stone Church................................
		.................................Alice M. Warren	67
	A Fragment.................................................	67


SOME DAY.
	Some day I shall be dead;
	Some day this tired head,
With all the anxious thoughts it now doth know,
	Shall be laid low.

	This body, pain-racked, ill,
	Shall lie at length, and still,
Under the clover and the wind-swept grass.
	Nor hear you pass.

	That were indeed strange sleep:
	When—even you—might weep
And come and go—even you—unheard of me ,
	As bird or bee!

	Nay, sweetheart, nay!—believe 
There is no cause to grieve;
One so wayworn, so sore opprest.
	Is glad to rest.

	Perchance when that release
	Hath wrought its spell of peace,
O’er this unquiet heart long vex’d with woe—
	Hearts-ease may grow.

	Who loves me will not weep
	When that I lie asleep,
But rather joy to think such sorrow may
	Have end some day.
							—Helen Hunt.


MOTHER.
Mother, most sacred name in all the earth,
How wonderful thy power to impel
In humble cottage, palace grand or prison cell,
Thy holy name soothes comforts and doth
	love compel.

Mother mine, to kiss your lips is love divine,
To feel your warm breath on my cheek
Is rarer far than words can ever speak;
To nestle close upon your breast
Brings nature’s choicest, sweetest rest.

To hear thy voice so rich and clear,
Speak words of comfort, love and cheer,
Restores the heart of pain
To warmth and smiles again.
					—Lillian Whatcott.


In a recent address, Governor Osborn of
Michigan, said: “I believe in woman suf-
frage. I hope to see the question put to a
vote of the people. I have been a believer
in the principles of woman suffrage for
many years.”


[Column 1]
	THE TEMPERANCE QUESTION. 
	The sentiment against the use of alcoholic
beverages is everywhere becoming stronger
and more stable among good and intelligent
men. The use of intoxicants is now seldom
if ever urged as a benefit or a necessity so-
cially or morally. On the contrary, it is
rightfully and most justly condemned as an
enemy to social, moral, and religious ad-
vancement. It is now generally conceded
that the moral and social standard of the
community as well as the individual is great-
ly enhanced by the total absence of intoxi-
cating liquor.
	Seventy years ago, the Lord said to His
people, through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
that “In consequence of evils and designs
which do and will exist in the hearts of con-
spiring men in the last days, I have warned
you, and forewarn you by giving unto you
this word of wisdom by revelation.
	“That inasmuch as any man drinketh
wine or strong drink among you, behold
it is not good, neither meet in the sight of
your Father, only in assembling your-
selves together to offer up your sacraments
before him.” To the Latter-day Saints, the
word of the Lord needs no confirmation,
but it is gratifying to note how science and
experience are proving the divinity of this
revelation.
	Investigations in physiology have dem-
onstrated conclusively the wisdom of this di-
vine declaration; and today physiologists 
throughout the land are warning millions
of boys and girls of the evil effects of al-
coholic beverages.
	A few years ago, it was thought that al-
cohol was good for a person exposed to ex-
treme cold weather. A little liquor, it was
believed, would “keep out the cold.” Though
the Lord had said it was not good, many
insisted that it was. The explorations in
the north have proved beyond a doubt that
the men who used alcohol perished of cold 
before those who abstained from the use of
it.
	In fact, so evident have the evil effects of
intemperance become that colleges, athletes,
railroads, and even nations themselves are
declaring against it:
	The lounger, the loafer, the drunkard, the
weakened character, the unfaithful husband,
the unreliable father, the ruined manhood
and debauched womanhood—all testify to
the evils and degradation following in the
wake of intemperance. 
	The recent State Legislature enacted a
law making it obligatory upon cities and
towns in Utah to decide by vote, June 27th,
whether or not saloons shall be licensed to
dispense alcoholic beverages. The question
plainly stated is this: Will the people in
each community continue to condone the
traffic in that which the Lord says is in-
jurious to man, or will they express their
disapproval of a business that undermines
society, debases the morals of a community,
and destroys manhood.
	To work thus in the interest of tem-
perance is highly commendable, and in har-

[Column 2]
mony with the teachings of the Church dur-
ing the last seventy-eight years. It is to be
engaged in a good cause; and the Lord has
said that “Men should be anxiously en-
gaged in a good cause, and do many things
of their own free will and bring to pass
much righteousness; for the power is in
them, wherein they are agents unto them-
selves, and inasmuch as men do good they
shall in nowise lose their reward.”
	The best way to teach temperance is to
keep the Word of Wisdom; and the next
best is to assist others to keep it by remov-
ing artificial temptations from their lives.
Such a temptation is the saloon, and it is
time that the sentiment in the communities
where the members of the Church reside
should be declared against this soul-destroy-
ing evil.
	Let no one suppose for a moment that the
liquor dealers, and their unfortunate tip-
pling patrons are going to yield the profits
of their traffic, on the one hand, the grati-
fication of their acquired and debasing thirst
for intoxicants, on the other hand, without
a desperate struggle.
	Those in favor of temperance and the
abolition of the drinking saloon as a means
to that much desired end, should realize that
they will have to meet most alert, wily and
determined foes, who will not hesitate to
use every possible means in their power to
defeat their opponents.
	Pro-saloonists will combine, will be ac-
tive, energetic and determined to defend
their craft; while there is danger that their
opponents, will be less wide-awake, less re-
sourceful and alert and thereby fail to match
them with that united, intelligent and deter-
mined effort so worthy of the temperance
cause. Let every man do his duty, as we
may well believe every true woman will do
hers.—(From Editorial in Juvenile In-
structor.)
				JOSEPH F. SMITH.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The women town councilors are reported
to have won in recent fight in Reykjavik,
the capital of Iceland. For several days
there was a deadlock in the town council
over the lighting of the city. All the men
members were in favor of electricity while
the women stood solidly for gas, because
they wished to use it for cooking also. Af-
ter considerable hesitation the mayor cast
his vote with the women.
	The aptitude of women for vocations hav-
ing to do with fabrics has gained recogni-
tion from one of the most famous textile
schools in the world, that in Grayfield, Ger-
many. Hitherto only men students have
been admitted, but the bars have been low-
ered and in behalf of an American girl, Bes-
sie Bennett, assistant director of the Chi-
cago Art Institute and curator of the muse-
um. Already well versed in textiles, she
will follow special courses in the German
institute on invitation of the head of the
school.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
		UTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Utah Stake, was held at Springville, April
20th, 1911. The singing was furnished by
the Stake Relief Society choir consisting of
fifty members.
	After the opening exercises of the morn-
ing session. Sister Julia Maycock wel-
comed the sisters and Inez K. Allen re-
spended. Miss Louie Robinson sang, “He
leadeth me.”
	The secretary read the summary of the
year’s work. General President, Emmeline
B. Wells, spoke of the organization of the-
Church; also of the transformation of
Brigham Young when the mantle of the
Prophet Joseph fell upon him, and the su-
perior personality of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	General counselor, Clarassa S. Williams,
spoke of the early trials of the saints and
their final triumph in reaching a place where
they could worship God according to their
own conscience; compared them to the early
settlers of America.
	Bishop Oliver Huntington spoke of the
first Relief Society and the good they have
done from then until now.
	Counselor Emily A. Holbrook urged the
mothers to gain the confidence of their
daughters. Sister Percia Bunnell spoke of
the proper training of children and provid-
ing work for them.
	General Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke
of preparing our children, both sons and
daughters, for missions. After closing ex-
ercises meeting adjourned until two o’clock.
A splendid dinner was served to one hun-
dred and fifty visiting ladies.
	The afternoon session was largely at-
tended. After opening exercises the gen-
eral and stake officers were presented and
unanimously sustained.
	George S. Taylor, visiting committee man
from the High Council, spoke of the testi-
monies of those who knew the Prophet
Joseph. Read a portion of the revelation on
the Word of Wisdom, also spoke of Pro-
hibition, and urged the sisters to study the
question. General President Emmeline B.
Wells, said the organization of the Relief
Society was the first woman’s organization
effected in the world, urged the sisters to
maintain the dignity of the Relief Society.
	A quartette—Sarah G. Ramsay, Sarah
F. Jones, Etta F. Whitehead, and Pearl
Jones, all of Provo, sang, “Tarry with me,
oh my Savior.” General Counselor Claras-
sa S. Williams spoke of proper employment
for children. General Counselor Julina L.
Smith spoke of genealogical work and the
good it is doing. Sister Lizzie Glispie ac-
companied by the choir sang, “An angel
from on high.” President M. A. F. Keeler
made a few closing remarks.
	After closing exercises conference ad-
journed for six months.
				MAY S. GLAZIER,
					Assistant Sec’y.
Summary of Year’s Work Ending March
			31, 1911.
	During the past year a number of changes
have been made in the stake organization.
Catherine Bassett resigned as missionary,
and Deseret Grey was chosen to fill the
vacancy.

[Column 2]
	Pauline Bean resigned as Treasurer and
Louie T. Brown was appointed.
	Nellie O. Parker, Assistant Secretary,
resigned and May S. Glazier was appointed.
	George S. Taylor was appointed by the
High Council to visit the organization in
place of J. H. Frisby, E. D. Partridge and
Bent Johnson, Jr., who were released.
	An excursion to Wandamere, Aug. 31st,
1910, proved to be a great success, both
socially and financially, after paying all ex-
penses the Society received $53.10.
	At our last conference we were greatly
favored with a lecture on Morality, by
Dr. Joseph Peterson.
	The stake officers feel it their duty to as-
sist all it is possible, in visiting the sick and
aged, so have been arranged in groups of
three, to visit the different wards in the
stake.
	Reports of the presidents of all the wards
in the stake have been heard by the stake
officers and greatly appreciated. All are in
excellent condition. The Provo Second
Ward Society raised $1,000.00 for their
meeting house.
	The Provo Fourth Ward has installed a
temple fund, by making and selling cloth-
ing and quilts. When a worthy person de-
sires to work in the temple and have no
funds, the Society sends them, thus increas-
ing the interest in temple work among the
saints.
	The Pleasant View Society purchased a
steel wheat tank that has given perfect satis-
faction. All associations report wheat in
good condition.
	The special missionaries report having
visited a great many homes of all denom-
inations, and with but few exceptions have
been treated nicely. They are doing much
good. The committee to visit the sick have
done all in their power to relieve those’who
are sick.
	During the past year Pleasant Valley and
Winter Quarters two of our wards have
been taken from us and given to the Car-
bon Stake, thus making a difference in our
report both statistical and financial.


Annual Relief Society at Roy.
	Minutes of the Relief Spciety Anniver-
sary of the Roy ward of Weber Stake, held
at the Roy meeting-house, March 17th,
1911. President Charlotte A. Hollands,
presiding, there were one hundred and fifty
people present. Singing, “O Ye Mountains
High;” prayer by Bishop Thomas Hollands.
	Singing, “Praise to the Man.” Minutes of
the last anniversary read and approved. The
program was rendered as follows:
	Sister Martha Jane Hammond gave a
short talk on the first organization of the
Relief Society, and gave the names of the
brethren and sisters that were present. Song
by Esteile Baker. Song by Jedediah Ham-
mond. Instrumental music by Lovinia
Brown. Song by John H. Hobson and
daughter, Lovinia. Recitation by Elizabeth
Gibby. Comic reading by Hattie Gibby.
Song by the two sisters Gibby. Select read-
ing by Emma Hammond. Song by John H.
Hobson.
	We next had a few remarks by Sister
Sarah A. Field. Said she always rejoiced
in the Gospel and in the Relief Society work,
said her testimony had been strengthened
by searching after the truth.


Duet by John H. Hobson, and company.
	President Hollands made some closing
remarks, was pleased to see so many pres-
ent. Singing, “Count Your Many Bless-
ings.” Benediction, Counselor Elizabeth V.
Jones.
		MARY E. DALTON, Secretary.


Annual Day at Fillmore.
	Sisters of the Fillmore Relief Society and
visitors of the ward met in the Latter-day
Saint Chapel, March 16, 1911, in commer-
ation of Annual Day which is March 17,
1911. Presided over by President Mary
Jane Kelly.
	Song, “O Ye Mountains High,” sung by
the congregation. Singing was led by Rob-
ert King. Prayer by Bishop Brunson. Con-
gregation sang, “We Thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.”
	The following program was rendered:
	Lecture, “The Key Turned in Behalf of
Woman,” by Sister Ann. E. Peterson. Duet,
sisters Rhoda Melville and Dora Anderson.
Reading, Sister Julia Day, Essay, “The gen-
eral presidency of the Relief Society from
the first organization to the present time,”
given by Sister Gertrude Robison. Song,
Sister Stella Day. Recitation, Sister Nel-
lie Huntsman. Bishop Peter L. Brunson
spoke for a short time, said he had en-
joyed the excellent program, and that of all
the organizations the Relief Society was
in lead. Spoke of Sister Yates, of Scipio
coming back in vision to Brother Orvill
Thompson. Piano solo, Sister Katherine
Woodhouse gave some very good advice.
President Kelly then stated she was pleased
to see so many out, and hoped to see as
many present to our regular meetings.
Spoke of the mothers’ plan for 1911. 
	Names of doners were then read. Con-
tinued further by congregation singing,
“Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah.”
	Benediction by Brother Robert King.
			EDNA M. TRIMBLE, Secy.


Party At Black foot.
	Last Thursday, March 2, 1911, a very
pleasant surprise was given our President,
Mrs. Catherine Hesse by the members of
the First Ward Relief Society, it being the
anniversary of her birthday.
	After the regular meeting, all were in-
vited into the main hall of the Latter-day
Saint Chapel where a long table was spread
with everything that “goes to make the
heart glad.” A splendid spirit prevailed;
toasts, sentiments and songs made the hours
pass pleasantly.
	Mrs. E. J. Priestly, Counselor to Presi-
dent Hesse in behalf of the members in a
neat speech presented President Hesse with
a beautiful hand painted cracker jar as a
token of the love and esteem in which she is
held by her co-laborers.
	CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Rec. Secy.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Alborg is the first Danish city where a
woman constable will soon appear in the
streets. She will wear ordinary dress, in-
stead of uniform, and her special duty will
be to keep a sharp eye on persons of her
own sex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE OLD STONE CHURCH.
Today I heard the church bells ring
	Out on the cool, clear wind;
It wakened memories sweet and sad
	Of years that lie behind.
I saw the old stone church, my dear,
	In that back country town;
Where not a shadow kept the sun,
	From pouring warmly down.

Around it rose the fair, green hills,
	Where fed the sleek, fat kine;
Or rested ’neath the wide-spread boughs
	Of maple, elm, and pine.
Near by the little churchyard lay,
	Its headstones white and low;
There lilacs ope’d their purple buds,
	And roses wild did grow.

In happy girlhood there I went
	To church, and never knew
That years before a little boy
	Sat in one high-backed pew.
Ah, Richard, nothing told me then,
	How sometime, I should see
That child’s sweet face within your own,
	And filled with love for me.

I well recall one Sabbath day,
	The summer time of year;
I stood within that time-worn desk,
	And felt the angels near;
I heard again the organ peal;
	Saw each familiar face;
And you presiding in the chair
	With quiet, manly grace.

How many feet who oft with us
	Have crossed that threshold o’er
Now tread the glad, immortal heights
	Upon the other shore
And voices that oft joined with ours
	In praise to heaven above
Still sing somewhere in better lands,
	Their songs of better love. 

Dear Richard, you may, some sad day,
	In parting, hold my hand;
Or I may be the first to go
	To meet that spirit band.
It matters not, I only ask
	That we rest side by side;
Beneath the lilacs’ fragrant bloom,
	Upon that green hillside.
					—Alice M. Warren.
Petersham, Massachusetts.


[Column 1]
DO WE WANT PROHIBITION?
	One evening this spring a number of
women working along reform lines attend-
ed a meeting of the City Council of Salt
Lake City. The matter of granting a retail
liquor license to the lesee of a public resort
situated in the heart of the city was ex-
pected to be decided. The officers of the
Juvenile Court having made the claim that
the beginning of the down fall of ninety
per cent of the girls brought before the
court might be traced to this particular re-
sort; these good women hoped, by their
presence at the council meeting to be able to
exert sufficient influence to cause the refusal
of the license. They arrived early and ar-
rayed themselves in the seats outside the
railing to the north of the council room. It
was a long session and every matter on the
docket from dog catchers to gravel beds,
including leaves of absence for policemen
and pasturage for useless horses connected
with the fire department was argued and
considered and voted upon, until the visi-
tors felt they had certainly attained a post-
graduate course in city gravel beds, and
were more than sufficiently educated in city
departmental work, besides being thorough-
ly fumigated with cigar smoke. But they
refused to accept their dismissal in any such 
polite(?) manner and determined to see the
thing through if it took all night, which it

[Column 2]
very nearly did, for it was midnight when
some of them reached home.
	However, they felt fully repaid, for the
license was not granted.
	To the south side of the room, opposite
the ladies, were a number of men, many of
them friends of the liquor man and during
the long evening it was quite possible to
make observations. Of one man in partic-
ular who sat there and who wanted this li-
cense granted, let me tell you a story. He
is now a red-faced, thick necked, bent,
coarse, ill-smelling fellow, but not many
years ago he was a tall, straight, fair-haired,
young Swede who courted a young Swedish
girl, who worked for one of these women.
The girl herself was neat, quick, and bright
a housemaid to please the most fastidious
of mistresses; and when she decided to wed
her suitor, it was with much regret that the
lady saw her leave. On account of the girl’s
conscientious work in her home the mis-
tress always felt an interest in her and had
watched and helped them along. The hus-
band was a good worker and they began
life in a little home built on rented ground
with the understanding that after a certain
amount of rent and interest was paid the
home was theirs. For a while they pros-
pered pretty well. After the first baby came
and the little wife was well again she wanted
to help increase the family income, as she
so longed to own her home, so she began
to take in washing. Together they saved
enough money to buy a horse and wagon,
the husband believing that by giving up his
position and running an express wagon he
could make more money and probably help
his wife more with her work by bringing
and returning her laundry work.
	Well, I don’t know how it happened first,
but probably in the cold weather, standing
waiting for a call the man was tempted to
“warm up his insides” with a little liquor.
At any rate it wasn’t long until a good many
of the dollars earned with the horse and
wagon found their way into the saloon man’s
pocket and the family living had to depend
almost entirely on the earnings of the little
wife. The family increased quite rapidly
and the services and help of friends and
neighbors had frequently to be given, but
the plucky little woman toiled on and each
time as soon as she could regain a little
strength, she would be at her washing again.
Soon in that home every day became a
wash day. The man still made a little, but
the rent fell in arrears and as the children
became old enough they too had to begin
to earn something to help buy food and
clothes. The girls at ten and nine years
went out in service and the boys at seven
and six began selling papers on the street. 
The little mother, her strength fast giv-
ing way, saw that she had attained that
glorious condition of motherhood only to
her sorrow and despair. Not only all her
husband’s earnings now went into the sa-
loon man’s pocket, but the little boys were
intercepted on their way home, at night and
their money taken from them to satisfy the
father’s beastly appetite. Soon the boys
began to seek new ways home and avoid
the father, but when they did a beating for
themselves and too often, alas, for the moth-
er also was the result of the deceit.
	To detail farther the pitiful story of that
family would be too sorrowful, but the
bright, intelligent, brave young girl who
so lovingly placed her trust in the tall young
Swede is today an inmate of the state men-

[Column 3]
tal hospital, a crushed and helpless inval-
id. The oldest girl can be found in a well
known house of ill repute. The other chil-
dren ran away from home and have been
cared for through the efforts of benevolent 
people. And this man, this husband, this
father, and others of his ilk sat in that
council chamber hoping by their presence to
have some influence to help that liquor man
obtain a license to drag down to their level
other men and women by the sale of their
nefarious stock!
	You don’t have to go to Kansas nor to
Maine for arguments for prohibition. Just
open your eyes and look around near at
home. Is there a man or woman who can
truthfully say that drink has ever been a
benefit to any one? Is it not degrading, is
it not injurious physically, mentally and
spiritually? In any of the pursuits of in-
dustry and education the partaker of al-
coholic drinks is legislated against and what
possible argument could there be to wom-
en to convince them that the open saloon is
a good thing. What does it do for you, it 
impoverishes the home, leads boys and girls
to destruction, blights reason, destroys hap-
piness, kills love and makes life itself a
burden. The story I have told at the begin-
ning of this article is true and it is only
one of many such cases that might be told.
The women of this state are on trial now be-
fore the nation and many eyes are turned
towards Utah to see what the women are
going to do. Be frightened because of a
great scare that “business will be injured,”
or brave the consequences and stand for the 
protection of the home and the honor of
the State. Women hold the suffrage and
generally you find them working for prin-
ciple regardless of what this one or that
one may think or say. If the cause is a
good one, and a just one, women generally
put their faith in the cause and are willing
to leave the consequences to fate believing
that the Lord, who overrules all things will
certainly take care of those who strive to
overcome evil. As Latter-day Saints who
teach temperance in all things, and in our
doctrine have the word of wisdom as a di-
vine revelation, let us not forget. Now is
the great opportunity for all true men and
women to place themselves on record
against vice and evil. If, as some people
tell us, “prohibition don’t prohibit” this elec-
tion if won will remove many temptations
from the sight of boys and girls and it will
be possible for school children to go to and
from school without seeing drunken men by
the side walks, without being attracted by
fine music, to look through plate glass win-
dows where gorgeous mirrors reflect the
sparkling beverage, tempting glasses, that
bring death and despair. Oh! may we all
remember that mighty prayer on the mount
of Olives that has helped mankind through
the centuries.
	“Lead us not into temptation,
	But deliver us from evil.”
			—Annie Wells Cannon.


A FRAGMENT. 
“Learn to wait Hope’s slow fruition, 
Faint not, though the way seem long; 
There is joy in each condition—
Hearts through suffering may grow strong. 
“Constant sunshine, howe’er welcome, 
Ne’er would ripen fruit or flower; 
Giant oaks owe half their greatness 
To the scathing tempest’s power.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	-	MAY, 1911


[Column 1]
SCIENTISTS AND PHILOSOPHERS.
	The present day is one of great research
and discovery, and men of superior intel-
lectual attainments are delving deep into the
mysteries of nature and of creative life, and
trying to solve problems that have with-
stood the test of time since the world be-
gun, as it were, by scientific processes, or
what has been termed by one popular French
writer “Creative Evolution.” In fact he
has written a book on the subject, which is
at least creating a sensation, but which so
few people will understand that it may not
do so much harm as it otherwise would.
	A writer in Current Literature for May
says: “M. Bergson addresses himself to the
most difficult problems, with which the hu-
man mind has to deal, etc. Even Wil-
liam James confesses that he does not un-
derstand all of Bergson, and adds, “I doubt
whether any one understands him all over
so to speak.”
	Without going into his philosophy or dis-
cussing his book, etc., one who knows the
revelations given in these latter days
through the Prophet Joseph Smith feels
when reading such articles as the one al-
luded to, and others of a similar kind, that
it is all vanity as the Preacher says in ec-
clesiasties, “Vanity of Vanities saith the
Preacher Vanity of Vanities: all is vanity.”
	Another verse reads, “One generation.
passeth away, and another generation com-
eth: but the earth abideth for ever,” etc.
	Some paragraphs quoted in the article re-
ferred to are very beautiful, but not con-
sistent with truth as taught in the Scrip-
tures, or by revelation in these latter-days
of the fulness of times.
	The Latter-day Saints have had such per-
fect teaching in regard to matters that are
essential to knowledge of the present, and
of salvation hereafter, that they are more
content than the outside world, and the
mysteries that are hidden and past finding
out must remain until revealed by Him, who
has created all things.
	It reminds one forcibly of the saying in
Job—
	Canst thou by searching find out God? Canst
thou find out the Almighty unto perfection?
	It is as high as heaven, what canst thou do?
deeper than hell what canst thou know?
	And yet notwithstanding the obstacles
that impede the solving of mysteries, men
(and women) still go on prying into the
hidden secrets of creative life, although they
know how useless it must be after all the

[Column 2]
centuries that are past. Even when the
Lord has revealed from time to time many
things, yet there are other underlying prin-
ciples possibly not yet revealed, that await
those who are to come forward into life and
action.
	The Key to Theology gives many sug-
gestions on the subjects M. Bergoson deals 
with, but differs widely also from his as-
sertions on the most important matters at is-
sue.
	There are perhaps but a few of our young
people that have ever read the wonderful
book to which we have here referred. If some
of the great philosophers would read the
Key to Theology and in a serious spirit (not
one of ridicule) thinking no good thing
could come from Mormonism, they might be
greatly enlightened on the questions, some
of them at least, over which they are puz-
zling their brains without much success.
	The Lord has revealed and does reveal
many wonderful principles that scientists
and philosophers are studying to learn, and
searching to discover, and the key notes
really given in the little book spoken of, but
there are other truths yet to be revealed
to those who keep the laws and command-
ments already made known to them.

“The mystic future with its depths profound
For ages counted as unbidden ground—
Now lifts its veil that man may penetrate
The secret springs the mysteries of fate.
Know whence he is and whither he is bound,
And why the spheres perform their ample round.”


SELECT WRITINGS.
	The above is the title of a new book by a
Mormon Patriarch, William Halls, at the
present time a resident in Mancos, Colorado.
The work has been edited by Edward H.
Anderson, Editor of the “Improvement Era”
and a man well known in Utah, and especi-
ally in Salt Lake City, for his careful edi-
torial work and excellent ability as a writer.
	The book contains a variety of subjects
opening with an autobiographical sketch of
the author which is very interesting and de-
picts briefly the varied scenes and circum-
stances of the true Mormon life and char-
acter. The conversion, the baptism, the or-
dinations, the journey to America and across
the plains; life in Utah, and missions, etc. 
These things are always interesting and
helpful to others who have had similar ex-
periences, and especially are such sketches
of pioneers, who have helped colonize this
western land. The noble men and women
who have endured hardships and peril by
land and sea for the Gospel’s sake deserve
honor at the hands of those who share in the
blessings and privileges they have helped
to establish and maintain.
	A variety of subjects are treated upon by
the Author, and in an interesting way; some
of them particularly so, and the book is one
that parents need not hesitate to put in
childrens hands, or in the Sabbath School or
other libraries.
	“A True Prophet—Why? Miracles, Miss-
ing Links, Tribute to Cӕsar, “What Life
Means To Me.” These are a few of the
titles to chapters. The book contains one
hundred and fifty pages, and is printed on
clear, white paper, and well bound in cloth,
presenting a neat and substantial appear-
ance. Such good books as this one of
Brother Halls should be encouraged, our


young people know very little of the Mor-
mon pilgrims and pilgrimages. Many of
them are utterly ignorant of the manner of
living in the early days in the valley. One
would conclude hearing some of our boys
and girls talk, that they know more an-
cient history and lands over the sea, than of
the Great West and the famous people, who
came first and settled in these beautiful
mountain vales. Such books as this one of
Brother William Halls would enlighten
them considerably in more ways than one,
if they would read seriously. There are
some parts of it, however, that are humor-
ous; and we wish the author success in its
circulation among the people of the West
and of the Church. It is safe reading for
boys and girls and will not lead them astray.


A VETERAN WOMAN.
	A pleasant party was given at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Druce, Ninth East
Street, Salt Lake City, on the 17th of April,
1911. This was to celebrate the eighty-
seventh birthday anniversary of his mother,
Mrs. Julia Druce. There were about forty
people present, including members of the
family. Most of the guests belonged to the
old Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City, of which
organization Mrs. Druce had been a mem-
ber for many years, having lived in that
ward ever since the year she came into the
city, in 1861.
	Mrs. Julia Druce was president of the
Twelfth Ward Relief Society for about
thirty years; and Mrs. Jemima R. Midgley
was associated with her, during all that time,
as first counselor. The late Mrs. Eliza D.
Hooper, also acted as second counselor, for
many years.
	A program of exercises, consisting of
songs, instrumental music, recitations, read-
ing, short addresses, etc., was rendered.
Some beautiful flowers, etc., were presented
to the guest of honor. Among these was
a very fine, large bouquet of roses, given to
her by members of the old Twelfth Ward
Relief Society. Mrs. J. R. Midgley made
the presentation address. After a part of
the program had been given, a very nice
supper was served. The tables, decorated
with flowers, etc., made a fine appearance.
A birthday book, was presented by Mrs. E.
B. Wells, who is an old and dear friend of
Sister Druce, and, in it, all the people pres-
ent were requested to write their names,
as a remembrance of the occasion. Among
the guests, was Mrs. Mary Alice C. Lam-
bert, also an old and valued friend whom
Mrs. Druce had known since early days in
Utah.
	Short speeches were made by Patriarchs
Joshua Midgley and George Brooks. Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and others,
also entertained us with some appropriate
remarks. At the close of the evening pro-
gram Mr. George Brooks was asked to dis-
miss with prayer. All then went to their
homes feeling happy and confident that they
had enjoyed themselves.
	Sister Julia Druce is a remarkable wom-
an, a fine personality, a woman of research
as well as study, with a valuable fund of in-
formation on many subjects, companionable
and genial. As President of the Twelfth
Ward, associated with her counselors she
accumulated property and was successful


in keeping it for the benefit of the poor. 
Above all she is a thorough Latter-day 
Saint.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
		ENCE, APRIL, 1911.
	The General Relief Society of the Church
assembled in conference in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall on Wednesday, April 5,
1911. President Emmeline B. Wells pre-
siding. The music was under the direction
of the Relief Society Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie
Thomas Edward, and Miss Edna Coray,
Relief Society organist.
	The morning session opened at 10 a. m.
by the congregation singing, “Come let us
Anew.” Prayer by Counselor Julina L.
Smith, singing. “Softly Beams the Sacred
Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a
greeting to the sisters assembled. Spoke of
the many glorious blessings and mercies
bestowed upon our people, and how grate-
ful she felt for the privilege of thus meeting
together to praise and worship the Most
High God. Hoped that while thus assem-
bled the workers of this great organization
would have a joyful time in the meeting of
friends and acquaintances and prayed that
there would be a flowing and overflowing
of the Spirit of God in our meetings, that
all would be satisfied to the fullest with the
conference. She blessed the sisters, every
one, and prayed for the Lord’s blessings
upon all.
	The President’s greeting was responded
to by Sister Harriet B. Harker, president
of the Salt Lake Relief Society, in a few
concise and pointed words. She referred to
her admiration of our general president, and
the great love all the sisters felt for her,
how her wonderful work and intellectual
attainments stood as an inspiration to the
women of Zion, referred touchingly and
lovingly to the life and example of our late
departed president, Bathsheba W. Smith
and expressed an appreciation for the great
work done in the different stakes of Zion.
	Louisa B. Benson, president of Oneida
Stake Relief Society, also responded to the
greeting in similar words, referring briefly
to stake work in general.
	Miss Edith Grant sang the beautiful song,
“I will lift up mine eyes.” Clarissa S. Wil-
liams then addressed the assembly. She
greatly rejoiced to see so many present at
the opening of the conference for she felt
that at the first session we received the key
note of the conference. In thinking of the
great work of the Relief Society a great
many questions arose in her mind, but late-
ly she had allowed her thoughts to dwell
somewhat on the first organization by the
Prophet, and the later development of the
work. The story of the organization though
an old story is always beautiful. It was a
direct answer to prayer and an inspiration.
And one thing that seems strange to me is
the fact that though the great work given
the sisters in the beginning was charity, still
not one of the other lines of work in which
we are engaged but was mentioned and
dwelt upon at the first meeting, by the
Prophet in his teaching to the sisters on
that occasion.
	She referred to Sister Emma whom he
named the elect lady and defined the ex-
pression “elect lady” as one who is called

[Column 2]
to preside and said we have many elect
ladies among us, not only the general pres-
ident, but presidents, of stakes and wards.
After the exodus from Nauvoo it was a
number of years before the work was re-
ceived in an organized way, but President
Brigham Young appointed Sister Eliza R.
Snow to continue the work of organization
and in under her fine excellent ability the
work of stake organizations was begun and
the system perfected, also in under the Relief
Society workers was initiated the organiza-
tion of the Retrenchment Society, after-
wards merged into the Y. L. M. I. A. and
the Primary Associations. Following Sister
Eliza was Sister Zina D. H. Young, then
we note a great development along charity
lines and later under Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith all we then had emphasized and oth-
er important works brought forth, notice-
ably the mothers work and the nurse work.
Many stakes now have begun to have the
nurse classes in their own stakes for the
slogan of the day is “keep your girls at
home,” better remain under the home en-
vironment at a dollar a month than risk the
pitfalls and snares for young women in the
city. Sisters of the Relief Society make it
your work to help the mothers keep their
girls from evil. The work of the Relief
Society embodies every good thing it should
be to the women, what the priesthood is to
the men. The Relief Society is the mother
organization and its possibilities are greater
than ever before. May we sense these re-
sponsibilities as mothers and sisters and
daughters in Zion, and I bless you with all
my heart, and I know the Lord does bless
you in your labors, Amen.
	Miss Elma Young sang a contralto solo,
“Ninety and Nine.”
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose continued along
the line of organization work and in a most
interesting way told of how organization
had spread to the islands of the sea and the
foreign countries. She described how the
elders go in boats along the coast of Nor-
way from one city to another, and there in
this northern land of the midnight sun, give
forth the message of the gospel, and wher-
ever possible have organized the women of
the Church into a branch Relief Society. She
dwelt at some length on the subject of the
age, of Adolescence, and urged the mothers
to be more diligent and careful in instructing
their daughters, for by the neglect of this
knowledge great suffering is caused.
	The congregation sang, “Oh ye Moun-
tains High,” and benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Carrie S. Thomas.
	At 2 p. m. The conference was resumed.
The congregation sang, “Glorious Things
are Sung of Zion,” and Sister Priscilla P.
Jennings offered the invocation. Singing,
“We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells then ad-
dressed the assembly, making reference to
recent public accusations against our peo-
ple and the necessity of answering them to
the women of the National Council with
whom we are affiliated in order to explain
our true position. She gave in detail our
relationship to the National and Internation-
al Councils of women. Dr. Jane W. Skol-
field then addressed the assembly on social
conditions. Her address was along the work
of social purity and she knew the necessity
of this work, for she had discovered that
Babylon had followed the people into these
mountains. Touching and heart-breaking

[Column 3]
instances she related that come to her per-
sonal knowledge, and she warned mothers
to keep their girls at home and to throw
around them every possible safeguard.
	Walter Lamareaux sang a bass solo,
“Rock of Ages,” after which Elder An-
thony W. Ivins, of the Quorum of the
Apostles, addressed the congregation on the
duties and responsibilities of the work of
the Relief Society. He dwelt at some
length on the importance of the word Relief,
and likened the work of this Society to the
teachings of Christ; referring to the parable,
that the good must be separated from evil,
the goats from the sheep, the tares from
the wheat, and they would enter into His
joy. And when they said, Lord when did
we not minister unto Thee He gave them
this great lesson. When He was naked they
had not clothed Him, when He was hungry
they did not feed Him, and they said, Lord
when saw we Thee in need, and here was
the key, in looking to do good in higher
places they had forgotten those around
them. Acts of mercy count with the Lord
whether administered with our own or a
stranger. He believed the Relief Society
tried to let love guide their actions and
if they did, and first loved the Lord, their
own, their neighbor, and even their ene-
mies, the Lord would surely bless them.
No kind act goes unapproved of the Lord.
	Mrs. Lizzie T. Edward most beautifully
rendered the song, “When the Swallows
Homeward Fly.”
	Sister Annie M. Cannon made a few tell-
ing remarks pertaining to general Relief So-
ciety work, followed by Second Counselor
Julina L. Smith, who spoke upon the sub-
ject of social purity and the broad charity
needed by the sisters in dealing with the dif-
ficult problems of their work.
	After singing, “Zion Stands with Hills
Surrounded,” benediction was pronounced
by Sister Rebecca N. Nibley.
	Saturday, April 8, the general and Stake
Officers of the Relief Society held an officers
meeting in the assembly room of the Bish-
op’s Building. There were fifty-three stakes
represented. The time of the session was
given over to the answering questions along
the different lines of work. Many impor- 
tant matters were discussed.
	Saturday afternoon, April 9, the confer-
ence reconvened in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in open session.
	After singing, “How Firm a Founda-
tion,” prayer was offered by Sister Julia P.
M. Farnsworth, singing, “Guide Us, Oh
Thou Great Jehovah.”
	Sister Alice M. Horne then addressed
the assembly on the subject of Thrift versus
Poverty. She mentioned how every spirit
comes stamped with infinity and to each
one comes the task of working out his or
her own individuality. The great sorrow
was that so many are unable to discover
their own special talent. But God has
blessed many people to help these uncertain
ones and discover for them their gifts and
talents. We should be responsive to the
Father’s call, thankful for the talents He has
given us, and through study and intelli-
gence pass on to perfection. Through our
great system of teachers in our work we be-
come acquainted with every member of
every family, and it should be the duty of
the Relief Society to help these our friends
to know themselves. There are many kinds
of poverty. Nothing grows in poor soil.


Poverty is the great stumbling block in
the developmenqt of everything. The great-
est cause of evil is poverty. The three con-
ditions we must study to overcome poverty,
are the earning power, the spending power,
and the saving power. Mrs. Horne thus
referred to the saving and thrift of the
French and compared them with the Amer-
ican people, and thought that through our
Relief work we should instil the desire to
save and not be forever spending. She
gave some very apt and pertinent illustra-
tions of the extravagance of buying in small
quantities for family use; and gave good
instructions along the lines of household
economics.
	Sister Edward sang, “My Faith in Thee.”
	Mrs. Wolstenholme, representing the
Home Manufacturers Association, spoke up-
on Home Industry.
	President Emmeline B. Wells expressed
her great joy for the glorious spirit of the
conference; spoke of the many splendid sub-
jects brought before us by the different
speakers, and the wonderfully beautiful mu-
sic. Advised the sisters to arm themselves
with prayer and faith, to ward off every
evil. After singing, “Come, Come ye Saints”
and prayer by Sister Phebe Y. Beatie, the
conference adjourned until October, 1911.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON, 
					Acting Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINMENT.
	An entertainment was given by the
Twelfth-Thirteenth Ward Relief Society on
the 17th of March, 1911, in the amusement
hall of said ward, being the anniversary of
the organization of the Relief Society.
	Refreshments were being served, tables
being set for that purpose, and all was
beautifully decorated with ferns and pink
and white carnations. Having been com-
fortably seated at the tables, President Mary
Carrington spoke a few words of welcome,
wishing them all a good and enjoyable time
during the evening.
	Nearly three hundred persons were en-
tertained. After the banquet had been
served the tables were cleared away, and a
short program prepared for the evening was
rendered.
	Opened by singing, “America.”
	A solo was then rendered by Brother
Melvin Peterson. A piano solo by Dorriett
Evans.
	President Joseph E. Taylor gave a very
interesting talk on the work of the Relief
Society, also said that on the day of the
organization, sixty-nine years ago, there
were eighteen members, and today there are
possibly over forty thousand.
	A solo was then given by Mrs. Ethel
Leaver, followed by a solo given by Heber
K. Aldous. Sister Ellis Shipp, M. D., of
the Relief Society, then spoke for a short
time, her remarks being along the same line
as those of Brother Taylor. A solo was
then rendered by Sister Elma Young.
	Bishop F. B. Platt spoke a few words of
encouragement and asked God to let His
choicest blessings rest upon the Relief So-
ciety.
	After benediction, pronounced by Brother
Thomas Williams, an invitation was given
to all to stay and enjoy a good time in danc-
ing.
			HULDA C. ERICKSON, 
							Secretary.


RACHEL PORTER HONORED.
	The eighty-first birthday of Sister Rachel
Porter was held at the home of her daugh-
ter, Sister Alice Young, on the 11th of May.
She was born in 1830 in the State of New
York, and was the first president of the
Relief Society of Preston, Idaho. Many of
her old friends came to pay their respects to
her; of her old officers present, there were
L. B. Benson, Anna Larson, counselors;
Lucy Margetts, secretary. Sister Nellie
Parkinson coming from Hyrum, and there
were twenty sisters to show their love in
words of cheer, music and song, nice
refreshments were served. Sister Porter’s
hair is as black as it was twenty-nine years
ago; she is meek and humble as ever, and
is still praising her Heavenly Father. There
were five of the present Stake Board there,
to do honor to this veteran Saint.
	The parents of Sister Rachel Porter were
not in the Church, their names were Sally
M. Wilcott and Samuel Murray. Her maid-
en name was Rachel Ann Murray was born
in the town of Oceana, State of New York.
The first Relief Society in 1879 was or-
ganized in Preston, under direction of Bish-
op Nathan Porter, who was the first Bish-
op, and her husband; it then was called
the Worm Creek Branch. These are the
first officers: Rachel Porter, president;
Serena Jensen, first counselor; Annie Lund-
green, second counselor; Mary Heller, sec-
retary; Jennie Wilcott, treasurer. Sister
Porter presided for fourteen years.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN AND LABOR.
	GIVE US LABOR OR WE DIE!
	Such is the gist of the argument pre-
sented in Olive Schreiner’s book, “Women
and Labor,” just published by Frederick A.
Stokes Company, New York—a picture of
the past and present conditions of women
which, for eloquence, even passion, united
with pure scientific reasoning, is to other lit-
erature on the subject what this author’s
memorable novel, “The Story of an African
Farm,” was to the best fiction of its day.
	The excerpts from Miss Schreiner’s book
printed on this page, forcible as they are,
give only a hint of the power and authority
of the whole book. And yet this volume—
as Miss Schreiner tells in her introduction,
is hardly more than a synopsis of the bulky
manuscript volumes, representing her seri-
ous life-work, which were destroyed by van-
dals of the Boer War of which her South
African home was a storm center. Was ever
a thoughtful volume prepared under greater
disadvantages than she here describes?
	“I was living in a little house on the out-
skirts of the village, in a single room, with
a stretcher and two packing cases as furni-
ture, and with only my little dog for com-
pany. Thirty-six armed African natives
were set to guard night and day at the doors
and windows of the house; and I was only
allowed to go out during certain hours in
the middle of the day to fetch water from
the fountain in the middle of the village, or
to buy what I needed. I was allowed to re-
ceive no newspapers or magazines. * * *
	‘I was neither allowed to light a candle
nor strike a match. When a conflict was
fought near by, the dying and wounded

[Column 2]
were brought in; three men belonging to
our little village were led out to execution;
death sentences were read in our little mar-
ket-place; our prison was filled with our
fellow countrymen, and we did not know
from hour to hour what the next would
bring to us.
	“Under these conditions I felt it necessary
I should resolutely force my thought at
times from the horror of the world around
me, to dwell on some abstract question and
it was under these circumstances that this
little book was written.”
	The “little book,” however, is a volume of
three hundred pages—every one of which
deserves the closest attention of the reader.
No attempt is made to connect the passages
here given—each completes its own power-
ful argument.
	In that clamor which has arisen in the
modern world, where now this, and then
that, is demanded for and by large bodies of
modern women, he who listens carefully
may detect as a keynote, beneath all the
clamor, a demand which may be embodied
in such a cry as this:
	“Give us labor and the training which fits
for labor. We demand this, not for our-
selves alone, but for the race.”
	If this demand be logically expanded, it
will take such form as this: Give us labor!
for countless ages, for thousands, millions
it may be, we have labored. When first
man wandered, the naked, newly erected
savage, and hunted and fought, we wan-
dered with him: each step of his was ours.
Within our bodies we bore the race, on our
shoulders we carried it; we sought the
roots and plants for its food; and, when
man’s barbed arrow or hook brought the
game, our hands dressed it. Side by side,
the savage man and the savage woman, we
wandered free together and labored free to-
gether. And we were contented!
	Then a change came.
	We ceased from our wanderings, and,
camping upon one spot of earth, again the
labors of life were divided between us.
While man went forth to hunt, or to battle
with the foe who would have dispossessed
us of all, we labored on the land. We hoed
the earth, we reaped the grain, we shaped
the dwellings, we wove the clothing, we
modeled the earthen vessels and drew the
lines upon them, which were humanity’s
first attempt at domestic art; we studied the
properties and uses of plants, and our old
women were the first physicians of the race,
as often, its first priests and prophets.
	We fed the race at our breast, we bore it
on our shoulders; through us it was shaped,
fed, and clothed. Labor more toilsome and
unending than that of man was ours; yet
did we never cry out that it was too heavy
for us. While savage man lay in the sun-
shine on his skins, resting, that he might be
fitted for war or the chase, or while he
shaped his weapons of death, he ate and
drank that which our hands had provided
for him; and while we knelt over our grind-
stone, or hoed in the fields, with one child
in our womb, perhaps, and one on our back,
toiling till the young body was old before its
time—did we ever cry out that the labor
allotted to us was too hard for us?
	Did we not know that the woman who
threw down her burden was as a man who
cast away his shield in battle—a coward and
a traitor to his race? Man fought—that was
his work; we fed and nurtured the race—
that was ours. We knew that upon our la-


[Column 1]
bors, even as upon man’s, depended the life
and well-being of the people whom we bore.
We endured our toil, as man bore his
wounds, silently; and we were content.
	A thousand years ago, had one gone to
some great dame, questioning her why she
did not go out a-hunting or a,fighting, or
enter the great hall to dispense justice and
confer upon the making of laws, she would
have answered:
	“Am I a fool that you put to me such
questions? Have I not a hundred maidens
to keep at work at spinning-wheels and
needles? With my own hands daily do I
not dispense bread to over a hundred folk?
In the great hall go and see the tapestries
I with my maidens have created by the la-
bors of years, and which we shall labor over
for twenty more, that my children’s children
may see recorded the great deeds of their
forefathers.  In my storeroom are there not
salves and simples, that my own hands have
prepared for the healing of my household
and the sick in the country round? Ill would
it go indeed, if when the folk came home
from war and the chase of wild beasts,
weary or wounded, they found all the wom-
enfolk gone out a-hunting and a-fighting,
and none there to dresstheir wounds, or pre-
pare their meat, or guide and rule the house-
hold!”
			*	*	*
	The commandment to the modern [---]
is now not simply “Thou shalt bear,” but
rather, “Thou shalt not bear in excess of
thy power to rear and train satisfactorily;”
and the woman who should today appear at
the door of a workhouse or the tribunal
of the poor-law guardians followed by her
twelve infants, demanding honorable sus-
tenance for them and herself in return for
the labor she had undergone in producing
them, would meet with but short shrift.
	And the modern man, who on his wed-
ding day should be greeted with the ancient
good wish, that he might become the father
of twenty sons and twenty daughters, would
regard it as a malediction rather than a
blessing. It is certain that the time is now
rapidly approaching when child-bearing will
be regarded rather as a lofty privilege, per-
missible only to those who have shown their
power rightly to train and provide for their
offspring, than a labor which in itself, and
under whatever conditions performed, is
beneficial to society.
			*	*	*
	Our spinning wheels are all broken; in a
thousand huge buildings steam-driven looms
guided by a few hundred thousand hands
(often those of men), produce the clothings
of half the world; and we dare no longer
say, proudly, as of old, that we and we alone
clothe our peoples.
	Our hoes and our grindstones passed
from us long ago, when the plowman and
the miller took our place, but for a time we
kept fast possession of the kneading trough
and the brewing vat. Today, steam often
shapes our bread, and the loaves are set
down at our very door—it may be by a man-
driven motor car! The history of our
household drinks, we know no longer; we
merely see them set before us at our tables.
	Day by day machine-prepared and fac-
tory-produced viands take a larger and larg-
er place in the dietary of rich and poor, till
the working man’s wife places before her
household little that is of her own prepara-
tion; while among the wealthier classes, so
far has domestic change gone that men are

[Column 2]
not infrequently found laboring in our
houses and kitchens, and even standing be-
hind our chairs ready to do all but actually
place the morsels of food between our fem-
inine lips. The army of rosy milkmaids has
passed away forever, to give place to the
cream-separater and the (largely) male and
machinery manipulated butter pat. In every
direction the ancient saw, that it was ex-
clusively the womans’ sphere to prepare
viands of her household, has become, in
proportion as civilization has perfected it-
self, an antiquated lie.
			*	*	*
	It is possible that not one woman in ten
thousand has grasped with scientific exact-
itude, and still less could express with ver-
bal sharpness, the great central conditions
which yet compel and animate her into ac-
tion.
	If the parasite woman on her couch,
loaded with gew-gaws, the plaything and
amusement of man, be the permanent and
final manifestation of female human life on
the globe, then that couch, is also the death-
bed of human evolution.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SKETCH OF JULIA P. LINDSAY.
		(Continued from page 47.)
	Our next thought was to prepare for the
winter and at the same time find out what
would be the surest way to make means to
go to the Valley. The family all felt united
in trying to get ready. My husband made 
himself a wagon and they bought cattle and
did not know who did this but in the fall
of forty-seven we moved to the mines and
on the fourth day of May our first child,
a daughter, was born to us. The cold win-
ter was over and the men went to work in
the mines. After a few weeks of hard labor
they struck a heavy vein of lead ore which
proved to be very rich. With this we ex-
pected to be able to start the following 
spring for the Valley. The cattle and hay
enough for their winter’s feed were pur-
chased and hay stacked on the river bottoms,
but some one went and set fire to it. We
did not know who did this but in a few 
days a man came and wanted to buy the cat-
tle. We did not sell them but bought corn
and more hay and fed them until the spring
of forty-eight. We started on our journey 
to the Valleys of the Mountains all the fam-
ily going together. We came as far as 
Iowa and after crossing the Des Moines riv-
er we camped about two miles this side of
the river opposite the town of Edeville.
Here we were detained by sickness. One 
of our number, a sister of my husband, was 
sick of a fever, but we were compelled to 
prepare for the winter. There was plenty of
work to be had and everything was cheap,
so that we got along very well. In the 
spring of forty-nine we started again on
our journey and in about four weeks we
arrived at Council Bluffs. On the ninth of 
September, 1849, our second daughter was
born. We stayed here until 1852, when we
started for Utah. Our third daughter was 
born while at Council Bluffs on March 5,
1852. We remained here until May, 1852,
when we started for Utah. It was quite an
undertaking for me to begin such a journey
with three small children, the baby only 
three months old. I felt very anxious to get
back where the Saints were located so that I
was quite willing to go. We started in

[Column 2]
May and after a long journey we arrived
in Utah, in Salt Lake, in October, just be-
fore conference.
	Soon after my second daughter was born
my husband began to think of taking anoth-
er wife. I believed in the principle of plural 
marriage and felt that it would not be right
for me to oppose my husband’s wish, as I 
knew he was very kind to me, and I had
faith that the principle had been revealed 
from on high. I asked myself the question,
am I prepared to embrace that principle and
shall I be able to lay aside many of my ten-
der feelings and many of my faults. I felt
that without the help of some higher power
I never could but I knew it would be wrong
to oppose it, so I at last consented, and
about August 12, 1849, my husband was
married to Pamelia Blackburn. There was
a great deal to do but we got along very
well in our home. At this time sickness
broke out in the company and many died 
of cholera. My baby was taken seriously
sick but was held by the faith and adminis-
tration of the Priesthood.
	Shortly after we arrived in the valley
we moved to Centerville where we re-
mained until the spring of fifty-three and
my husband went to Kaysward, Davis
County, where he took up some land
and that summer raised a good crop
of wheat and other things for our
sustenance. In the fall the scarlet fever
broke out, my sister-in-law took it and died
the fourth day after taking sick. Shortly 
after her death my eldest daughter took the
fever and after lingering four weeks and
suffering untold agony she passed away to
the spirit world. Three days after her death
my baby who had been ill for sometime, 
grew worse and died. This left me with but
one child. Every one was afraid to come 
near on account of the disease, and had it
not been for an emigrant lady who was
camped close by, I should have had to lay
out my own sweet children. Through this 
great sorrow it seemed that God sustained
and helped me to bear it.
	We had plenty of work, in those days
we were obliged to make our own dresses 
and in fact everything we needed. Thus we
labored and raised our families together
and taught our children to love each other.
As our families grew larger we thought it
best for each family to have a home. We 
had lived together fifteen years, ten years
of that time my husband’s third wife lived
with us. We separated to our different 
homes with the best of feelings for each oth-
er. About this time many of the Saints were
called to settle Bear Lake, and as we had
large families we thought it best to go
where we could get more land so we de-
cided to go to Bear Lake. We passed
through many hardships and privations that
a new country is heir to. In the fall of sixty-
nine twelve of our family came down with
typhoid fever. There were no doctors near
at that time so we had to do the best we
could. Sister Emeline Rich was very kind
and did all in her power to help us, but two
of our children, after great suffering, were
taken by the hand of death. One being a 
lovely child, a son sixteen years of age of
the second wife and the other a son, aged
ten years, of mine; both died within twen-
ty-four hours of each other. For three
months our house was like a hospital and
for many weeks we did not know how it
would be with us. Sometime previous to
this the Relief Society was organized and


[Column 1]
I was chosen to preside. The Relief Society
of Paris, Bear Lake Stake, Idaho, was or-
ganized by Apostle Charles C. Rich, May
29, 1868, with Sister E. Davis as president,
and Sisters Maria Rich and Eliza A. Rich
as her counselors. Sister Davis soon moved
to Ogden and Sister Maria Rich was ap-
pointed to fill her place. Sister Julia P.
Lindsay and Sister Caroline Kimball as 
counselors. The Society was reorganized
February 1, 1872 with Julia P. Lindsay as
President and Sisters Caroline Kimball and
Elizabeth Codings as counselors. Two wards
were soon in 1878 created in Paris and a Re-
lief Society organized in each. Julia P.
Lindsay was chosen stake president of Re-
lief Society in February, 1879, set apart
for this labor by Apostle Charles C. Rich,
James Hart and Geo. Osmond. Sisters
Elizabeth Collings and Maria Rich were set
apart as counselors to President Julia P.
Lindsay. After Sister Maria Rich moved
away Sister Lizzie Hart was chosen to fill
her place. After the death of Sister Col-
lings in June 14, 1898, Sister Lizzie Hart
was chosen and set apart as first counselor,
and Sister Mary Bagley, second counselor.
Sister Lizzie Hart was taken accidently
from this life in January, 1894, then Sister
Mary Bagley was sustained and set apart
as first counselor and Sister Amelia Hoge
as second counselor, and sister Nora Austin
as assistant in Sister Hoge’s place.
	Throughout all these years of stake labor
each Society has been visited once a year,
although many storms, bad roads and in-
conveniences of travel have been faced, but
through fortitude and great determination
the duties of these labors have b[-]en accom-
plished and great blessings realized. The
sisters in the presidency have labored in
love and unity, each giving the other sup-
port and encouragement. During the trials
of parting with the counselors when death
has claimed them, Julia Lindsay has become
reconciled, feeling that it was the hand of
God and that they had been faithful in their
duties and that God would provide help for
her, this He did. It seemed strange that
Julia Lindsay, the president, is still pre-
served and able to fill these duties when oth-
er younger help has been taken away. It
seems the hand of God is sustaining her in
this work. Even as late as August 20, 1907
she has been privileged to take charge of
the Relief Society conference of this stake,
in great strength of spirit and clearness of
mind. Trusting in God always for guid-
ance, help, and wisdom has enabled Julia
Lindsay to fulfill so faithfully all her duties
as president. She was called to part with
her companion who had been a devoted hus-
band, January 3, 1889. This great trial she
bore patiently and wisely as any noble spirit
does. She has gone on as faithfully as be-
fore and been greatly blessed of God in her
widowhood. When clouds of doubt and dis-
couragement darkened her path she would
seek aid from on high and receive support
and strength to go on and keep up spirit.
	Julia P. Lindsay has been the mother
of eight children. This speaks volumes
for her. Though she, as you will see
by the past record, has had to lay
away little ones in death, she has raised
five to man and womanhood and carried on
her labors as well in the stake. At this writ-
ing, August, 1907, her grandchildren num-
ber fifty-four, great grand children eighteen,
and great great grand children twelve, in all
seventy-four.

[Column 2]
	With such a record none need fear the fu-
ture, great indeed must be the reward of
such a mother, grand mother, great grand
mother, and great great grand mother, with
such a life of faithful church work and
nobility, and integrity of heart sustained to
such an age as her’s.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	The Granite Stake Relief Society Con-
ference was held at the Stake Tabernacle,
May 16. In the forenoon a spirited testi-
mony meeting was held. The afternoon
session an eloquent address on the Care of
the Erring and Wayward of the Youth of
Zion was given by Doctor Jane W. Skol-
field. President Frank Y. Taylor also spoke
on the same subject.
	A resolution, pledging our support to
temperance and the prohibition movement
was read by Sister Lucy M. Green, and
was unanimously adopted.
	The Stake Relief Society choir rendered
several choice selections, and a solo was
sung by Sister Lottie Clissold, and a piano
duett by Sisters Walker and Coray, was
much enjoyed. Closed by singing, “God be
with you till we meet again.”
	Benediction by Patriarch Harrison Sper-
ry.
				LUCY M. GREEN,
						Assistant Secy.


IN MEMORIAM.
			Mary H. Farrar.
	At Beaver, March 27, Mrs. Mary Hayward
Farrer died, after a short illness. She was
born at Derwent, Derbyshire, England,
March 17, 1822, and was the daughter of Jo-
seph Hayward, and Mary Bridge Hayward;
was married to Jonathan Pearson in 1842, and
was the mother of six children, all being dead
except one son, William, who is a resident of
this city. She was baptized on Nov. 6, 1848,
and crossed the plains in John R. Murdock’s
company in 1862, coming to Beaver, where she
has lived until now. She entered into mar-
riage with James Farrer, Dec. 7, 1867, and as
long as her physical condition permitted she
took part in the religious affairs of the com-
munity, being a prominent aid in Relief Soci-
ety work.
	The funeral services were held on Thursday,
March 30.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our heavenly Father, in His wis-
dom, has taken from our midst our aged and
beloved sister and co-laborer, we wish to
emulate her virtues and noble qualities; there-
fore, be it
	Resolved, that the wisdom and ability and
labors of our beloved sister be held in grateful
remembrance. Also resolved that a copy of
these resolutions be copied in our record of
Beaver West Ward Relief Society, and one
given to the bereaved son, William Pearson,
Beaver, Utah, and one to the Woman’s Ex-
ponent for publication.
				Betsy S. Goodwin,
				Ellen M. Skinner,
				Francis L. Jones,
							Committee.


SONS OF REVOLUTION CHEER
			WOMEN.
	Miss Laura Clay has been attending the
meeting of the State Federation of Wom-
en’s Clubs at Louisville, Ky. She writes
from that city recently:
	“An interesting suffrage incident took
place last night in the Federation. The
Sons of the American Revolution are in


Louisville in session at the same time we
are. Last night they sent a message of
greeting to us. This was read aloud, and
Mrs. Desha Breckinridge moved that we
send a return message of greeting, and say
that the Federation of Kentucky Club Wom-
en stood for the same principles that their
forefathers and ours defended; that taxa-
tion without representation is tyranny. Mrs.
James A. Leech, the president, put the mo-
tion to vote, saying every member of the
Federation was privileged to vote. Of the
large audience of club women apparently
every woman rose, and amid great enthu-
siasm Mrs. Leech appointed Mrs. Desha
Breckinridge chairman of a committee to
go at once to the meeting of the Sons and
deliver the message.
	“The committee was cordially received,
and called to the platform. Mrs. Breckin-
ridge was introduced as the great grand-
daughter of Henry Clay, and made a witty
and telling little suffrage speech, which was
applauded with cheers.”—Ex.


NURSE CLASS AND OBSTETRICS.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s School in Nursing
and Obstetrics closed the winter session on
Friday, the 31st inst. The next term will
begin on Monday, Oct. 9th, 1911, at her res-
dence, 713 Second Ave.,
	After many months of theoretical and
practical instruction, these ladies have
passed a most successful examination and
have now gone to their various fields of use-
fulness hoping to dispense health and hap-
piness to those requiring skillful and effi-
cient service.
	The importance of such knowledge can
scarcely be over-estimated, educational to
the wife and mother— to the daughter, as
well as to those wishing to make a pro-
fessional career.

To minister with tender care
	To sick and suffering;
To mitigate the pangs they bear
	Will greatest blessings bring.
Exemplify the love of One
	Who lived alone to bless,
Who “healed the sick” and walked the path
	Of lowly righteousness.
							E. R. S.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The University of Rochester, New York,
celebrated Susan B. Anthony’s birthday,
Feb. 15, a suffrage luncheon was served and
College Woman’s Suffrage Club held a
birthday party in remembrance of her ef-
forts to have the college opened for girls in
which she was successful.

	It is quite well understood now that Miss
Johnston, the celebrated novelist, has be-
come an ardent suffragist. Her article on
Woman’s Suffrage in the Atlantic Monthly
last year attracted much attention. The
Woman’s Journal of Boston quotes her as
saying: “Last year I paid to the city and
the state considerably over $1,000 in taxes.
I earned every penny of that money. I was
people and citizens when it came to the tax-
collector’s day, but I was neither people nor
citizens when it came to deciding between
stationary accounts on Board Street, or
school houses that could seat the children.

