EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - - Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - -: - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII DECEMBER, 1921 No. 12 THE YEAR'S OLD AGE CHRISTMAS TIDE To children, to youth, and to early maturity, the Christmas season brings thoughts of joy, feasting and present-giving. But to those who have reached the youth of old age, the month of December brings thoughts of the aging days soon to fall asleep in the cradle of the infant new year. Age with its frequent loneliness, its loss of capacity, its failure of early ambitions, and above all the growing feeling that no one needs or wishes us about, this is our tragedy! Talk of Christmas gifts! Once a year presents—what are they to the lonely aching heart of age! How can one bright holiday make up for months of forgotten needs! We aging women want congenial work to do each day! Health to do our work!—opportunity to work. That is heaven to any normal human being. Work and a quiet room of our own, one loved companion near—ah, then Christmas brings good cheer. If the young-old woman has cultivated the habit of reading —the papers, novels, and most especially the Bible and Book of Mormon, she will find infinite comfort and company in her reading, particularly in the glorious books of the scriptures. She should not read in an accidental way, but read them right through —again and again. Orson Pratt once said he had read the Book of Mormon sixty-three times. It grows richer and. Fuller with each reading. This aging woman must work, cook, sew, patch, embroider, peel potatoes, knit—she can always knit, even if her eyes trouble 
 ner. If you could see the blessed old blind women in the temple waiting in the hall to go forward—visiting happily, and knitting — knitting—you would feel that you could find work to do, no matter who you were or where you were. Don't be idle. Find an absorbing interest—in your grandchildren, in the thrilling news of the day, in the Relief Society, or, best of all, in the temple! If you can live in a temple district, go to the sacred courts of the House of the Lord and there find rest, peace and throbbing interest in life. If you don't, try to learn how to keep temple records or make temple clothing, or do the housework for your busy daughter while she writes in your records. If you must eat the bread of dependence, avoid interfering with your "in-laws." Even let your own daughters and sons alone, unless they seek advice and counsel. It is hard for mothers and mothers-in-law—after you have been the hub of a swift moving wheel for forty or fifty flying years—it is hard to find yourself just a spoke in the wheel, and often an insecure, rather wobbly spoke, at that. But learn the new lesson—don't meddle with child, or either parent. Just keep your eyes shut— like you do when your reckless son is driving the ''Tin Lizzie," on one wheel around a dugway. Keep still and pray! But don't be idle. Keep busy. Find something to do that will really help your dear ones. At the same time, don't neglect the spirits of the dead who are crying out for help on the Other Side. Braid rag rugs, knit, patch, darn stockings, peel potatoes, wash dishes!— you will never fail to be welcome in any household if you work happily at these homely and healthy tasks. Write letters, keep accounts for your children. Above all, honor the son or the son-inlaw who is the head of the household wherein you may be dependent. Never allow insubordination, in your own heart, or in the heart of your daughter, to the counsels of the man of the house. Avoid pitying your daughter or yourself. Strengthen her will and your own by a firm resolve to be obedient to counsel and to honor the Priesthood. Only so can you have peace in your heart, or in her home. Do every possible thing to make others pleased and happy, then you will be happy yourself. If the Christmas finds you with only your regular darning and patching all done up, even these small tasks will be sanctified and glorified with the Christmas glow and cheer which beautify the giver and the doer of deeds far more than the receiver. Don't be dependent, don't feel dependent. Earn your way—if not with work and toil, then earn it in a far more beautiful way, with smiles and sympathy and sweet encouragement to all around you. Learn to pay daily compliments to your loved ones about the becomingness of dress, their good cooking or excellent behavior. One verbal boquet is worth a bunch of tea roses. The most glorious way to spend your remaining months or even years is in the temple. Persuade your children to contribute each a certain amount—if you have no financial resources of your own because you have foolishly given your children your home and property—persuade them—and they certainly owe you that much—each to pay a small monthly sum to you and with that you go to a temple for the winter, in Dixie, in Logan, or in Manti; take a tiny room, do a bit of patching and darning for your neighbors, on the days you are not in the temple, to earn a few extra dollars. O the independence of your life; O the delight of knowing someone needs you; O the joy of saving suuls; and O the peace which will come to your soul and to the souls of your children when the Christmas time comes around and they proudly say, "My mother is so happy. She spends all her time in the temple." And you reply gratefully and humbly, "How glorious is the Christmas to those who are privileged to partake, in spirit and in truth, of the Christlike mission, which is peace on earth, good will to men, here and on the Other Side! NOTE OF CORRECTION One more mistake must be corrected concerning the authorship of the story, "The Wages of Sin," which was published in the October number of the Magazine, and which has already been corrected once. Lucy Guyman Bloomfield did not write the story, but Lucy S. Burnham did. Address all communications for this department to the editor, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and not to the Relief Society Magazine. Add the author's name to verses, articles, or stories which may be sent in and which sometimes get separated from the letter which accompanies them. MISTAKES When a plumber makes a mistake he charges twice for it. When a lawyer makes a mistake, it is just what he wanted, because he has a chance to try the case all over again. When a carpenter makes a mistake it is just what he expected.; When a doctor makes a mistake he buries it.; men a judge makes a mistake it becomes the law of the and. When a preacher makes a mistake nobody knows the difference. When an electrician makes a mistake, he blames it on the induction; nobody knows what that means. But when an editor makes a mistake—Good night!