REFORM.

	[Concluded.]
And he says why should the goddess of
Liberty be a woman and be placed upon the
Capitol building at Washington?" And we
say, "Oh, that is only a poetic fable. It looks
well!"
	More than one-seventh of all the bread-
winners of the United States are women, and
we know how underpaid their labor has been
and is.
	We are told that in New York City 200,000
women work at trades.
	Of these 27,000 support their husbands. In
the employments where the lowest wages are
paid 70 per cent of the workers are women,
while in those employments where as high as
20 dollars a week are paid only 3 per cent are
women.
	The industrial disenthrallment of women is
then one of the measures not yet fully ob-
ained.

[Column 2]

	The old objections to woman's suffrage are
seldom heard now-a-days. There are few peo-
ple who will claim woman is so mentally in-
ferior to man as to be incapable of using the
ballot.
	The position that woman has taken in all
kinds of labor, trades or professions has
proven the absurdity of such an objection,
With women lawyers, doctors and preachers
taking high rank in their professions; with
woman at the head in art, literature or
science the fact of their mental strength has
been satisfactorily demonstrated. If they are
physically weaker. the ballot has been as will-
ingly bestowed upon the weakest man as upon
the pugilist Sullivan, and every foreign immi-
grant who lands upon our shores can in a
short time become an American sovereign by
virtue of the ballot, regardless of his height,
weight or mental capacity, if he falls short of
complete idiocy or lunacy. Sex only is the
crime to debar them from franchise.
	Of the 12.000.000 American women it has
been found by the last census that 89 per cent
of them can read and write while a large pro-
portion of men cannot read the ballot they
cast, thus proving, if intelligence was made
the standard of qualification for franchise as
it should be, the lines would not be drawn
where they now are.
	As to the old objection that it will take wo-
man from her cares and cause her to neglect
her family, no thoughtful person will enter-
tain such an idea.
	It certainly will take no longer for a woman
to go out and vote, than to go shopping, to
the circus or to an afternoon tea, and probably
some one can be found to take care of the baby
upon voting day as well as upon the other
hundred and one occasions when a woman
spends an hour from home.
	Women seem to have time to attend any
society or club where their especial province
is to get up supper's, or help raise money &c.,
and no one seems to object, not even the wo-
men themselves.
	A very intelligent lady of Ashtabula, said to
me a few days since. "I believe in woman
suffrage, but I do not think women should
hold office. I think it would be a terrible
thing for a woman to be President of the United
States."
	Well I have not worried about that yet. I
think it would be a terrible thing for a wo-
man to run for the Presidency, with the politi-
cal parties in the condition they are at present.
To be dragged in the filth and mire of politi-
cal intrigue and wire pulling during a cam-
paign, and be obliged to toady to every
whiskey distiller or beer brewer, who controled
a large number of votes, I do think it would
be a terrible thing. But I also think it is a
terrible tiling for a man, to run for office
now-a-days. I sympathize with Col. Mulberry
Sellers when he asks what he has ever done,
that his friends should think so meanly of him
as to want him to stoop to be a congressman.
	No, we will not look so far ahead as that.
What we see now, is the nation's need of wo-
man to purify politics; to lift politics out of
the control of King Alcohol, and when lifted
and purified if the nation should ever find that
the fittest citizen for chief executive, in all
this great commonwealth was a woman we
will try and bear the infliction with becoming
womanly fortitude hoping that by that time,
the position will be elevated sufficiently to
meet the exigency of the case, and that woman
may not be degraded by accepting it.—The
history of England under Victoria and Eliza-
beth's reign will prove woman's ability to fill
a position of power.
	Another argument in favor of Equal rights
of the sexes is, that any thing which elevates
educates or broadens the mind of the mothers
of the race, must benefit the race. When we

[Column 3]

are free, our sons will be born of free women,
and we can expect greater statesmen, and
nobler men with enfranchised, thinking
mothers.
	We do not believe that all women are now
sufficiently educated to vote intelligently. Few
men are.
	We do believe if suffrage is granted to wo-
man she will conscientiously strive to know
what she is doing, and on all moral questions
she will be inclined to right that she will look
more to the character, and record of the con-
didate than to the party he represents. Indeed
it is said in Wyoming that a man dare not run
for office there, if he has not a clear record be-
hind him.
	It is also said, women do not seem to seek
or desire office for themselves but they are
mighty particular whom they put in office.
When our country has men with white souls
and clean hands in office then shall the muddy
stream of politics run clear.
	We do not expect that women will always
vote right. In fact they have a right to make
mistakes, a few of them, when their brothers
have been making them for ages. Carlysle
says "Man's walk is a succession of falls," and
if a woman stumbles occasionally even in
politics we cannot wonder. One thing is in
her favor. When she slips she is quite apt to
land upon her feet.
	As to tariff and free trade and protection,
and protection free trade and tariff, we believe
with Miss Shaw in home protection, and if we
should get into the intricacies of these subjects
we shall probably be as able to disentangle
them, as Sambo was when the franchise was
given him; or as Mike, Fritz, Henrik Forvald
or Antone Jakamo, who have only been here
a year, or even as, Rain in the face, or Trail 
in the mud out in South Dakota.
	We want laws which protect our homes and
make the same standard of morality for man
as woman, not like the amended Wanzer bill
which make our daughters of full age and re-
sponsibility at 16, and our sons free from legal
restraint until they are 21.
	We want to feel the world was made for
women too, and that a woman bread-winner
for the same labor can get as much for her 10
hours as man.
	We do not like to think of those poor sew-
ing women in New York who are making
shirts at 6 cents a piece and furnishing their
own thread.
	And we would like an opportunity to help
men to cast off the shackles of political
"bossism," and aid them to make such restric-
tions as shall put the right of franchise on an
educational basis. And then when no one
shall be enfranchised man or woman who is
not able to read the ballot he or she cast, our
boys who must live 21 years before they can
vote will have a better chance to save our
nation from this element of anarchy and
socialism, which is being poured in upon us
from the prisons and Alms houses of the old
world at the rate of half a million of voters
every five years.
	As for home protection and the need of it,
the mothers realized this when less than 20
years ago goaded on by mother love and the
agony of seeing their loved ones filled by the
relentless destroyer rum, they put aside the re-
straints which prejudice had imposed upon their
sex, and inaugurated the crusade against the
saloons. It was the act of desparation, the up-
rising of the mother spirit which would sacri-
fice itself in defense of its dear ones. But the
saloons are still with us. Our boys are beset
by temptation upon every hand, and still our
government reaps the benefit of the dealers
license to destroy them. There are
12,000,000 citizens in the United States of
suitable age, and elegible to the franchise ex-
cept for the crime of sex who would protest


[Column 1]

against this, but they are voiceless. Since the
days of the crusade what means have been left
untried, what work has been left undone, by
women in defense of their homes.
	Women have prayed, and seen their sons
and husbands die before their eyes from the
effects of drink.
	Every day we have object lessons. Every
newspaper contains a temperance sermon and
yet the saloons are with us.
	We look to the churches and to the clergy
for help and are disappointed and heart sick to
see the apathy and indifference with which
we are met.
	The W. C. T. U. of Ashtabula a short time
age engaged the Hon. Lou. Beauchamp for a
series of Gospel temperance lectures. Ladies
canvassed the town going from house to house
to invite the people to come out.
	But the opening night with only 150 present
a large proportion of those children was so
discouraging as to end the project, and Mr.
Beauchamp left us. Not one clergyman was
present to support him.
	Of course there are reasons why it thus
happened, for we have at least two clergymen
who are usually found present on such occa-
sions. But generally speaking it would seem
as if the modern theology did not teach "woe
unto him that giveth his neighbor drink."
	What then is left for women to do? We
are told to pray. Did it ever occur to you
how willing men and politicians are to have
women do the praying for them? They even
allow them to make the major part of the
church congregations for that purpose, and to
get up socials, and raise funds, etc. But they
are not willing they should have a voice in
the church government.
	Far be it from my purpose to arraign any
church, but the question has been so recently
forced upon us, in the refusal to admit women
to the general conference of the M. E. Church,
that we can but remember it.
	Sixty thousand foreigners landed at Castle
Garden last month, the majority of these can-
not read, write or speak our language, yet in
one year in the Western States where they are
distributed they will become kings by virtue
of the franchise, the right to wield the ballot,
and the political parties will cater to them be-
cause they are voters. While 12,000,000 dis-
franchised women sit quietly down and let them
vote whiskey down their children's throats, and
are powerless to prevent it. If their prayers
are no more effective than when they petition
to men, we may doubt their efficacy. For we
have seen petition after petition set aside and
disregarded because the petitioners were only
women and have no vote. We want to vote
as we pray. It is the voters petition that is
deferred to, that is legislated upon, for the
legislator knows that unless he heeds such
petitions he will so to speak lose his head upon
the block of the party machine or he will at
the end of his term be relegated to the realms
of inocuous desuetude.
	But we are thankful we can see a brighter
day dawning. During the last year under the
charge of the platform committee, two millions
of voters, not women, but men have affixed
their names to petitions for woman suffrage.
Wyoming women will vote for the next Presi-
dent of the United States, Kansas has muni-
cipal suffrage and 22 states school suffrage.
As Hon. E. B. Taylor said at Warren, "the
walls of the political Jericho are undermined,
the women are blowing the trumpets about
them, and they are liable at any hour to fall
in."
	When they fall women will hold the balance
of power. Astute politicians foresee this and
the better class are favoring it, seeing therein
a way out of the control of the bummer ele-
ment in politics. If women only will be true
to themselves and think more of principle

[Column 2]

than popularity, the battle will not be long,
nor the victory afar off. When woman has
the ballot the saloons must go.
	As for woman suffrage causing quarrels in
the family, I believe the reverse would be true.
Look how men cater to and after the voter
now, and think how they will do the same to
us, when we hold the balance of power, or as
we shall do when enfranchised. Why, bless
you, my sisters, your husbands will be kinder
than ever before to you, especially near elec-
tion time. They may do as well by you as
they do by the illiterate voter now, whom
they treat to whiskey and cigars so freely be-
fore election.
	They will at least try and conciliate you if
there is danger of your voting differently from
them, and if you vote with them and for right,
morality and temperance, you will strengthen
the cause one hundred fold.
			ETTA L. GILCHRIST, M. D.
	Ashtabula, Ohio.


