FEAR NOT FOR ZION.

	This is indeed an interesting period in the history
of this people, and those who have been looking
forward for a great change to transpire that Zion
might be liberated from bondage, ought to take
into consideration, how often it has been repeated
to the Saints, that the Lord's ways are not as
man's ways, and that great things never come
about as even wise men anticipate. The Lord
works in a mysterious way, and sometimes it is
best to stand and wait, especially until one is sure
of going in the right direction.
	Could anything have been required of the
Saints more uncertain than the exodus from
Nauvoo? many weakened in their faith and had
not the courage to start upon the journey, others
had just faith enough to get to the first stopping
place "Richardson's Point" in the State of Iowa,
and turned back again; the writer remembers
well, the sermon of President Young at that place
and  his prophecy concerning those who left the
camp to go back, and his words were fulfilled to
the very letter.
	It was very trying to endure all the privations
and hardships of that journey and the prolonged
stay at Winter Quarters, and many grew faint
and weary though their faith failed not, and hun-
dreds perished and lie in unknown graves; and
yet looking back upon it today who of all those,
who suffered these perils by the way could say
now, that it would have been better to stay in
Nauvoo, and meet the deadly foe face to face
expecting deliverance in their own way from the
hands of their enemies.
	The Lord revealed to Brigham Young the way
of deliverance and it proved a safe way. It was
not the way Sidney Rigdon and some other lead-
ing men pointed out, but it proved to be the right
way, and those who followed it and sustained the
majority of the Apostles found to their perfect
satisfaction that the Lord had spoken to Presi-
dent Young and opened up a way by which they
could come into a land prophesied of, where
Temples could be erected and the work of re-
demption for the living and the dead could be per-
formed and many thousands of "spirits in prison"
be released from bondage.
	Much has been accomplished in the great
Latter-day work since coming to these valleys,
and there is no doubt much more and greater
work yet to be done before the ushering in of the
Millennium, and the Lord has said He will do
nothing except He reveal it to His servants the
prophets. And when they receive the word of
the Lord, if the Saints are in doubt they should
seek for a testimony, or if they have not sufficient
humility and faith for that, stand still and watch
and pray without ceasing and they will not go far
astray; but if they give way to murmuring, the
experience of the past has proven most effectually
that they will fall into darkness, error and unbe-

[Column 2]

lief, and become backsliders, dissatisfied and un-
happy.
	The Lord is working with His people at the
present time, and some things are undergoing a
change, as great perhaps as the exodus from
Nauvoo, though an entirely different one, and
doubtless there are many who will be tried and
wonder what will be the result, but those who are
humble and trust God implicitly with child-like
faith will be able to stand, but it must be by faith,
such mighty faith as Abram had in the hour of
need.
	Women as well as men need this strong faith
in the Gospel, and without it they will be unable
to endure; they too need testimony and convic-
tion and knowledge for themselves, and as our
Heavenly Father loves His daughters as well as
His sons, and chasteneth those He loveth, women
must take up their cross as bravely and willingly
as their brothers. He has a purpose in view in
the change now being made throughout the
Church, and though His people are not permitted
to see clearly what is to be brought about
through the sacrifice required, trust Him always,
He will never forsake those who rely upon Him.
The ones who are most severely tried are those
who will receive the greater blessings, this should
comfort the sorrowing ones, He will "sanctify to
them their deepest distress." God has not for-
saken his faithful saints, no more than He had
Abraham, when He commanded Him to offer up
his son. If the nearest and dearest are taken,
still the true saint can look up and trust Him.
When the clouds are heaviest then He smiles
through them, and the bitter experiences of those
who have made covenants with Him in holy
places will yet be a stay and anchor to their souls
for those eternal covenants reach behind the
veil.
	The Saints should prophesy good concerning
Zion, and concerning the daughters of Zion, for
the day of triumph is at hand; the inscrutable
ways of the Lord are past finding out, yet His
people need not fear, His work will roll onward
and Zion will prosper and the enemies of the
Saints will be left without excuse.
	Those who are trying to serve the Lord and
help establish His Church in the earth must stand
by the cause they have espoused through storms
as well as sunshine, and if they can endure all
things, then will they be counted worthy to reign
with Him, who descended beneath all. To those
who are aiming for the highest exaltation, nothing
should seem too hard to pass through. Again
and again in ancient and modern revelation has
the Lord said He would have a tried people even
"as gold seven times purified," therefore the
Saints should not murmur as did ancient Israel
lest they lose sight of "the prize of the high call-
ing."

	"In the cruel fire of sorrow
		Cast thy heart, do not faint or wail;
	Let thy hand be firm and steady,
		Do not let thy spirit quail;
	But wait till the trial is over,
		And take thy heart again;
	For as gold is tried by fire,
		So a heart must be tried by pain!"


