PRESS WOMEN IN BOSTON.

	Letters, telegrams and notes of invitation have
been sent to us to be present at the first meeting
for the Federation of Women’s Press Clubs in
Boston on the eleventh of the present month—
it has been a source of deep regret that we were
unable to attend and help on with the enterprise
started last winter in Washington.
	The New England Woman's Press Club invited
the members of the Woman’s International
Press Federation to be their guests and will give
a reception at the Parker House.
	The forenoon will be a business meeting the
afternoon will be an open meeting to which all
press women will be invited and the evening a
banquet at the Parker House.
	Such opportunities are rare and ought not to
be neglected, they are the milestones that count
woman’s progress in the path of progression and
enlightenment—and they open up avenues of
communication between those whose lives have
lain wide apart, and perchance misunderstood by
each other and awaken interest in those afar off
that strengthens the bond of human sisterhood


and shows us how much we all have yet to learn
in the lessons of charity and fellowship before
we can come into a knowledge of the whole truths
of the universe and enjoy the universal brother-
hood which through love is to redeem the world.
	The women of the press have an immense
power for good, to mold the minds of others, to
influence the multitudes that may never see them
or hear their voices, yet they can wield a potent
sway by means of the pen, and so subtle is this
impress that it is not perceptible, but grows to
giant proportions without scarcely a sound
even a whisper. How careful shonld the writer
be of the power he exercises, that it should be for
the good of all who may partake of its spirit.
	This meeting and entertainment in Boston has
been arranged to precede the Woman’s Christian
Temperance Convention, so as to secure railroad
rates for both at one time and make the journey
count for two purposes. It is good economy to
begin with, and besides saving of means and
strength. 
	Some of the brightest and brainiest women in
the world, will be gathered at the hub in this 
Federation, as well as in the W. C. T. U.
	It is greatly to be regretted that there are not
better facilities for free transportation to and from 
these great assemblies of women.
	The dispatches will give us news of this meet-
ing ere long, for when such an assembly of wo-
men are gathered in a city as famous as Boston 
the reporters are sure to write them up, and there 
will be something worth telling for the fair and 
the brave, the poet, the scholar, the novelist and
author of many books, the brilliant and witty, and 
the thoughtful will be there. It is a pleasure 
in itself to meet in social contact the people, who 
have made a name in the world of literature by
their own literary efforts and whose books, or
poems, or articles one has read and queried con-
cerning the writer. To see a large concourse of 
women who can earn money by the pen is a
picture worth gazing upon, and a study that is in-
deed worth contemplating; after all human nature
is the highest subject and the most fascinating,
and the people who have really accomplished 
some brilliant undertaking are the ones most in-
teresting to the observer. The very fact of these
women coming together is one of the signs of the 
times, telling in trumpet tones of the rapid strides
being made-towards woman's emancipation from
ignorance and bondage.
	Women are thinking to some purpose not aim-
lessly, not with rivalry nor any sinister motive in
view, but for the best good of humanity and for
this they are willing to make some sacrifices, that
a brighter day may be heralded in and universal
liberty envelop one and all under its broad
canopy of equal rights and privileges.


