SUFFRAGE.

	I have frequently had occasion to give vent
to my opinion in regard to woman suffrage in
a short but no-wise complete manner, hence
have had my ideas so contorted as to entirely
destroy my actual position as an earnest advo-
cate of your cause in public life. Now on the
contrary, you have my hearty support, but I
think you, or many of your prominent advo-
cates, take a wrong shoot and instead of lay-
ing a foundation for your noble cause, you
branch out in leaves or small branches as it
were, and if your ideas, which are naturally
sanguine or over enthusiastic, fall down you
always find some horrid man to witness your
fail, and he will invariably laugh at your pre-
sumption on so weak a foundation, to aspire
to do something with nothing, pardon my
candor, this is what always drives my suffrage
friends from me disgruntled, without giving
me the opportunity to fully define my position,
but in my opinion such is the condition today
and will so remain unless you change your
tactics, and build a foundation that will re-
quire at least two generations to erect a struct-
ure on that will stand the storms of ridicule
that today beat against your frail house, and
invariably causes either depression or the en-
tire crush of the structure.
	We are told in our earliest histories that
man was made first, and that woman was so
dependent on him, that even the first woman
had to secure a start from man, and that after-
wards she was placed in subjection to him,
but this I doubt. I think it only originated
from man's superior strength and never was a
divine wish or expectation—was only a mun-
dane retrogression that must first be checked
before woman can attain her God-given posi-
tion on strict equality with her liege lord,
man.
	It has been the prevailing idea with mankind
from as far back as history goes, that the son
and heir are the acme of perfection. How did
our Roman mother feel if her child happened
to be a girl? the poor chld was neglected, her
physical development was neglected, her edu-
cation was of decidedly second consideration
to the son already born, or the one to come.
Even before hand,	*	*	preparations were
made for the full development of the physical
and mental tenure of Rome's future army.
This was right as far as it went, but compare
the two children of those days? The boy was
carefully taken, given a rigid and severe course

[Column 2]

in its physical development and a thorough
training in war tactics, while the girl was
turned over heartlessly to a nurse and more or
less neglected all through life except when fill-
ing the office of motherhoods.
	Tracing the history of mankind down to the
present, can any one tell me whether it is
much better today? I've heard many mothers
say even in this age "Oh if I can give my boy
an education, my girl will marry some one
who will get the bread in the house and if I
teach her to bake bread and do plain sewing
these are all the requirements of a girl."
While my boy must have a good education
and make his way in the world. Of course
this, like as in the days of our Roman mothers
is all right as far as it goes, but why should
we neglect our girls? are they not future
mothers? and should they not be as intelligent
as the fathers? Most decidedly yes, and more
so say I; who, I will ask, are the persons to
whom we first appeal for our food? who is the
first one to hear our plaintive cry when we are
sick? who is the one to whom we first look for
sympathy in our infantile troubles? who is the
one who first leads our baby footsteps to the
altar of prayer and teaches us what to say?
when our struggling mind bursts into a desire
to know where God is, what the moon is and
the stars, and a hundred other childish ques-
tions, to whom do we go? As time rolls on
and we find an intelligent adviser into whose
willing ear are all our questions and confi-
dences poured, even to the time of choosing
our life mate? I'll answer all these questions
by the words Our Mothers. Will any one
dare to say, I am wrong, I think not. Hence
for a mother to fill these important functions
she must not have her education neglected,
she must either be qualified or qualify herself
to make a mother in every sense of the word;
a mother who knows how to take care of her
God-given charge from the moment of its con-
ception until she lays down her body with a
large concourse of intelligent children as
mourners; a mother who when she taught her
child to pray that she adopted the very best
language, that when sickness comes on she will
know better than all the quack neighbors that
drop in with their harrowing tales of their ex-
perience; a mother must know how to answer
the infantile questions that are asked by all
intelligent children or if unable to know how
to answer in such, a way as to retain the con-
fidence of the child in other words know the
child; as the child grows up she must be the
one who lays the foundation for a solid char-
acter, must prepare him for scholastic and
academic life. Her education, if confined to
baking bread or sewing on a button only,
would, when her bright little child asks "how
are stoves made necessitate reference to other
persons for information, it will be so with all
other questions asked and ere long your child
will appeal to you no more for information, he
will go away from home and the chances for
defective or immoral teachings are more prone
to be met with in promiscuous associations
than home, to say nothing of the desolation
created by the child or growing youth or
maiden who is turned over to an unfeeling
world, whose teachings are fraught with any
but maternal or trustworthy instincts. What
is home without that comfort giving essential
confidence. Its loss can invariably be traced
to that one defect in our girl's education.
	To raise up that standard of equality you


must fight a custom that has for its parents
the bigotry of man’s superior strength, you
must show by your excellence in what you
are best qualified, which I will not attempt
to particularize. It will take a generation
perhaps to prove that you are the best teacher
for the school it may take generations to show
that you are the best qualified for type
writing.
	It will certainly take a long time for you
o show by hard training and steady perse-
verance that you have your points even in the
arts and sciences that will enable you to stand
in the van with any. To do this turn your
attention to the education of your girls.
	Have as much pride in seeing them get their
diplomas as you have for your boys, drive
those notions of confining the girls education
to just what is required the day they start to
learn remember the future day when they
will have daughters of their own—you know
progression is nature and if you have these
aims, theirs will be in a more advanced degree
and ere long the sun of your dreams will have
arisen and your great granddaughters will be
standing shoulder to shoulder with the men of
the age, for the same labor receiving the same
or better pay, they will be exercising their
benign and refining influence on all the pro-
gressive ideas and customs of the age. So
educate your daughters in various channels of
public life that if it does not qualify them it
will their daughters, impress on their minds
the finer instincts and aims of woman’s rights
do not try to teach them that they should be
burly policemen or sit on a jury, that in-
cludes men with the fair prospects of remain-
ing together days perhaps. Do not say it is
your right to sit on the Judge’s bench and
listen to all phases of immoral life. Let their
aspirations be of a higher nature, all these are
revolting to a young lady and will drive her
from you instead of making a convert. First
educate her in all the branches of life, the
common school, politics, religion and if pos-
sible science, art and music. Then let her
highest aim be her true position as a mother—
let none be secondary to this, then your suff-
rage ideas when confined to woman’s physical
ability, then her mental if trained right will
assume its true level as water does and ere long
a race of beings will people this earth that
will be bound to recognize woman in her true
position to man, he being utterly unable to
dispense with woman in all phases of his life.
*     *     *     *    Woman in her position
to man is so decidedly essential that were it
possible to people the earth without her, that
man would soon die off from sheer misery and
loneliness therefore for any one to say they are
not his equal in everything but strength is
preposterous, and the inference is only the re-
sult of custom from man’s, earliest history.
This custom is what you must change and to
do this will require ages, you must strike at 
the root of future generations. Educate your
daughters to this ultimatum.
							D. P. FELT.
	Provo, Oct 28th, 1891.


