WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB ORGANIZED.

	Pursuant to a call made by letter to a large
number of women writers, a meeting was held on
Saturday Oct. 31, 1891, at the Office of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT in this City for the purpose of
organizing a Woman's Press Association for the
women engaged in active journalistic or news-
paper work in Utah Ter.
	Quite a number of those invited to attend the
meeting responded to the call, (those living at a
distance sent replies by letter), and after some
consultation as to methods of procedure, E. B.
Wells was chosen temporary chairman and Juie
I Mc'Donald secretary pro tem. Prayer was
offered by Lula Greene Richards.
	The nomination of officers was the first busi-
ness to be transacted, after some explanations
having been made by Mrs. Wells and Mrs. Gates.
A motion was put and carried unanimously that
the nominations be made from the body of the
house. The officers elected are—Emmeline B.

[Column 2]

Wells, President; Susa Young Gates, 1st. Vice
Pres.; Lula Greene Richards, 2nd. Vice Pres.;
Martha A. Y. Greenhalgh, Vice President at
large; Annie Wells Cannon, Cor. Sec'y.; Jose-
phine Spencer, Ass't. Cor. Sec'y.; Ellis R. Shipp
M. D., Recording Secretary; Juie Ivins Mc'-
Donald, Ass't. Rec. Sec'y.; Ruth M. Fox, Treas-
urer; Romania B. Pratt M. D., Auditor.
	The discussion of what the club should be
called resulted in the adoption of the name Utah
Woman's Press Club.
	A motion was made and seconded that the
chair appoint a Committee of three to prepare a
Constitution and By-Laws for the club.
	The chair accordingly appointed Susa Y. Gates
of Provo, Romania B. Pratt of Salt Lake City,
and Lucy A. Clark of Farmington, as such Com-
mittee.
	The Committee drew up the following articles
which were presented and adopted.
CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I.—Name.
	This organization shall be called the Utah
Woman's Press Club.
ARTICLE II.—Object.
	The object of this club shall be to further the
literary development and interests of women, and
to foster and strengthen individual efforts by
means of organization.
ARTICLE III.—Membership.
	Any woman who writes for a creditable journal
newspaper or other publication shall be eligible
to membership.
ARTICLE IV.—Officers.
	The officers of this club shall be a President,
two local Vice Presidents, one Vice President at
large, a Cor. Sec'y., and Ass't. Cor. Sec'y., a Re-
cording Sec'y., and Ass't. Rec. Sec'y., a Treas-
urer and Auditor, to be elected annually.
ARTICLE V.—Executive.
	The Executive Board shall consist of the Presi-
dent and three officers of the Club, viz: The
second Vice Pres., the Cor. and Rec. Secre-
taries.
ARTICLE VI.—Credential Com.
	The Corresponding Secretary and the Record-
ing Secretary and Treasurer shall compose the
Committee on Credentials.
ARTICLE VII.—Offices.
	No officer shall serve in the same position for
more than two years in succession.
ARTICLE VIII.—Amendments.
	This Constitution may be amended at any
regular meeting of the club, due notice having
been given beforehand.
			SUSA YOUNG GATES,
			ROMANIA B. PRATT,
			LUCY A. CLARK,
				Committee.
	A suggestion was made by Susa Y. Gates that
each member should contribute for the first meet-
ing an original article or address, or such a
selected article as should further the object for
which the club was organized, or be subject to a
fine not to exceed twenty five cents.
	After some practical hints upon club work by
members present an adjournment was taken and
an appointment made for the next meeting to be
held at the same place on Wednesday Nov. 30,
at seven o'clock in the evening.
		JUIE I. MC'DONALD, Sec. Pro tem.


