		SERMON AT LOGAN.

		[Sunday Nov. 1st, 1891.]
	I have had some revelations of late and very im-
portant ones to me, and I will tell you what the

[column 2]
﻿Lord has said to me. Let me bring your minds
to what is termed the manifesto. The Lord has
told me by revelation that there are many mem-
bers of the Church throughout Zion who are sorely
tried in their hearts because of that manifesto,
and also because of the testimony of the Presi-
dency of this Church and the Apostles before the
Master in Chancery. Since I received that revela-
tion I have heard of many who are tried in these
things, though I had not heard of any before that,
particularly. Now the Lord has commanded me to
do one thing, and I fulfilled that commandment
at the conference at Brigham City last Sunday,
and I will do the same here today. The Lord
has told me to ask the Latter-day Saints a ques-
tion, and He also told me that if they would listen
to what I said to them and answer the question
put to them, by the spirit and power of God, they
would all answer alike, and they would all believe
alike with regard to this matter. The question is
this: Which is the wisest course for the Latter-
day Saints to pursue—to continue to attempt to
practice plural marriage, with the laws of the
nation against it and the opposition of sixty
millions of people, and at the cost of the confis-
cation and loss of all the Temples, and the stop-
ping of all the ordinances therein, both for the
living and the dead, and the im-
prisonment of the First Presidency and Twelve
and the heads of families in the Church, and the
confiscation of personal property of the people
(all of which of themselves would stop the
practice), or after doing and suffering what we
have through our adherence to this principle to
cease the practice and submit to the law, and
through doing so leave the Prophets, Apostles
and fathers at home, so that they can instruct the
people and attend to the duties of the Church,
and also leave the Temples in the hands of the
Saints, so that they can attend to the ordinances
of the Gospel, both for the living and the dead?
	The Lord showed me by vision anh revelation,
exactly what would take place if we did not stop
this practice. If we had not stopped it, you
would have had no use for Brother Merrill, * or
for any of the men in this temple at Logan; for
all ordinances would be stopped throughout the
land of Zion. Confusion would reign throughout
Israel, and many men would be made prisoners.
This trouble would have come upon the whole
Church, and we should have been compelled to
stop the practice. Now, the question is, whether it
should be stopped in this manner, or in the way
the Lord has manifested to us, and leave our
prophets and apostles and fathers free men, and
the temples in the hands of the people, so that the
dead may be redeemed. A large number has al-
ready been delivered from the prison house in the
spirit world by this people, and shall the work go
on or stop? This is the question I lay before
the Latter-day Saints. You have to judge for
yourselves. I want you to answer it for your
selves. I shall not answer it; but I say to you
that that is exactly the condition we as a people
would have been in had we not taken the course
we have.
	I know there are a good many men, and prob-
ably some leading men, in this Church who have
been tried and felt as though President Woodruff
had lost the Spirit of God and was about to apos-
tatize. Now, I want you to understand that he
has not lost the Spirit, nor is he about to aposta-
tize. The Lord is with him, and with this peo-
ple. He has told me exactly what to do, and
what the result would be if we did not do it. I
have been called upon by friends outside of the
Church and urged to take some steps with regard
to this matter. They knew the course which the
government were determined to take. This feel-
ing has also been manifested more or less by
members of the Church. I saw exactly what
would come to pass if there was not something
done. I have had this spirit upon me for a long


time. But I want to say this: I should have let
all the temples go out of our hands; I should
have gone to prison myself,and let every other man
go there, had not the God of heaven commanded
me to do what I did do; and when the hour came
that I was commanded to do that, it was all clear
to me. I went before the Lord, and I wrote what
the Lord told me to write. I laid it before my
brethren—such strong men as Brother Geo. Q.
Cannon, Brother Jos. F. Smith, and the Twelve
Apostles. I might as well undertake to turn an
army with banners out of its course as to turn
them out of a course that they considered to be
right. These men agreed with me, and ten
thousand Latter-day Saints also agreed with me.
Why? Because they were moved upon by the
Spirit of God and by the revelations of Jesus
Christ to do it.
	I leave this with you, for you to contemplate
and consider. The Lord is at work with us. He
is doing things here that you do not comprehend.
Make these matters a subject of prayer. Do not
worry; do not feel bad about them.
	I rejoice that God has revealed to us the
Gospel. I rejoice I live in a day and generation
when we have the Church of God on the earth.
We have had prophets and apostles among us.
They have worked here in the flesh and saved
many souls. They have died and gone to the
spirit world. Joseph Smith holds the keys of this
dispensation. He will hold them to the endless
ages of eternity, no matter who may lead the
Church after him. The Lord has given us power
to come here and build temples. We have three
temples erected in these mountains, and many of
the dead have been redeemed in them, and they
will have a part in the first resurrection. There-
fore, we ought to be thankful to the Lord. We
want to continue in these temples. We want
them to be occupied by the Latter-day Saints.
We want our brethren and sisters to continue to
go there and redeem the dead and bless the liv-
ing. The Lord will take care of you and your
families. He will take care of Zion, and of this
generation, and He will fulfill all that He has
said.
	I say, God bless you. And He will bless you
if you will hearken to His counsels.
	I want the Latter-day Saints to stop murmuring
and complaining at the providence of God.
Trust in God. Do your duty. Remember your
prayers. Get faith in the Lord, and take hold
and build up Zion. All will be right. The Lord
is going to visit His people, and He is going to
cut His work short in righteousness, lest no flesh
should be saved. I say to you, watch the signs
of the times, and prepare yourselves for that which
is to come. God bless you. Amen.


