UTAH CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of a meeting of the Woman's
Suffrage Association of Utah County held in
Provo Oct 23rd. 1891, for the election of
Officers for the ensuing year. Meeting was
called to order by Malvina Wilkins; singing
"O, come come away." Prayer by Joanna
Patten. There were present of the Territorial
Officers Vice President Emily S. Richards,
also Ellen Jakeman, of the County Officers
M. J. Patten, Electa Bullock, Caroline M.
Danials; R. H: Doolan, of the vice Presidents
of the County Jane Finch of Spanish Fork,
Hannah Lapish American Fork, Mary Ann
Webb, Lehi, Sarah A. Boyer, Springville.
	M. A. Y. Greenhalgh, Millard, who was
appointed to act as chairman protem,
Willmirth White was appointed to act as
secretary. Emily S. Richards stated the
object of the meeting said we would elect our
officers according to Robert's Rules of Order.
which gave us the right to vote by ballot or
appoint a committee to select the names and
vote them in by acclamation and only members
had the right to vote; said it had been decided
to have a county organization as well as a


ocal one; and we would nominate the County 
Officers first. On motion of Willmirth White 
the election of officers was proceeded with by 
ballot. Electa Bullock received the highest 
number of votes for President of the County,
R. H. Doolan Secretary, Marilla Danials 
Treasurer. Mrs. E. S. Richards then read the 
Territorial bylaws and on motion of Mrs. 
Lapish the same were adopted by Utah Co. 
The business of the County being disposed of 
it was thought advisable to nominiate Officers
for the local organization which was done by
ballot. Joanna Patten received the highest 
number of votes for President at Provo,
Caroline Danials 1st vice President, Mary 
Ann Martin 2nd vice President,Lelia Meachum 
Secretary, Jane Snyder Treasurer. An
adjournment was then taken until 2 P. M.
	On reassembling at 2 P. M., meeting was 
called to order by Pres. Joanna Patten. Choir
sang "The reason why." Prayer by Hannah 
Lapish. Choir sang “Praise to God.” Emily 
S. Richards was appointed to act as chairman, 
Willmirth White as secretary protem. The
Officers who received nomination at the 
morning session were unanamously sustained.
Next in order was the appointing of an 
Executive committee which was elected as 
follows.
	Willmirth White chairman. Members
Annie K. Smoot, Hannah Dewy, Zina Chipman,
Malina Wilkins, Alice Faweett, Mrs.
Mcbride, Ann Mitchell, Mesdames Emily S. 
Richards, Martha Greenhalgh, Sarah Boyer
Ellen Jakeman, Joanna Patten, Electa
Bullock, and others gave some very fine
speeches on the question of suffrage and the
advancement of Woman. A meeting of the 
Executive Committee was called for Oct. 30th
and meating adjourned sinede. Sang Doxoligy. 
Benediction, Annie K. Smoot- 
