				REFORM.

	I feel a great reluctance to come before this
audience today to talk upon a subject which
has been so ably and thoroughly discussed by
those so much more capable than myself at
the recent Suffrage Conventions; and my only
apology for so doing,is,that it is only by repeti-
tion that principles and ideas are taught and
fixed in the mind.
	It would seem that in this latter part of the
19th Century, there should be no need to prove
the value of the ballot, as a weapon of defense
protection or reform; and yet, although en-
lightened men all over our country are willing
to grant to us this privilege, many women are
holding back and saying "We do not want it.
We wouldn't be so unladylike as to vote, and 
besides we have all the rights we want.”—So
much has prejudice done to woman.
	A happy wife blessed by all the comforts of
home,and the protecting care of her husband,
her children by her side, and sheltered by her
loving arm, feels that she has all the rights
desired and sneers contemptuously at the agi-
tators of suffrage, thinks they had better be at
home caring for their households, and holds
herself up as a pattern of propriety by con-
trast.
	My dear other women have talked the same,
but the time has come in their lives when be-
reft of the protecting care of husband and
father, they have been brought face to face
with the protecting arm of the law, that law
made by men for men, and have felt their own
powerlessness and at what disadvantage, a wo-
man stands when thrown upon her own re-
sources for livelihood; and in their extremity
have said, "Oh for a voice in making these
laws?"
	Vast improvement has taken place in the
condition of women since that day when a
small band went out from a man's convention
and in a session room organized the first suff-
rage society. Women are enjoying the results
of the labors of those pioneer workers.
Property rights have been multiplied,great gains
have been made in educational opportunities,
in business advantages,and greater freedom is
enjoyed from restricting prejudice, so that it
would almost seem there is little more to ask
for. Yet how many realize to whom they are
indebted for these privileges they enjoy, when
they shake their heads at suffrage agitators.
	The mother of that boy just growing into 
manhood, comes face to face with a problem
which proves to her how important is she as
the guardian of the home.
	Rev. Anna Shaw said to us, that the fallacy
and untruth of the old saying "The hand that
rocks the cradle moves the world," lay in the
fact that the children do not always stay in
the cradle. Alas no! If they did, the 
mother might move them and the world,
but a few years takes them from the cradle
into the world so full of pitfalls, and then the
mother's hand is powerless to save. And when
she sees her boy being drawn into the seething
maelstrom of vice, the cry that comes from
her agonized heart is not alone, "God save my
child?" but it is "oh, that I might stretch forth
my hand, and with the mighty weapon of the
ballot close those doors of perdition that open
before him!"
	Even yet in some of our states a mother has
no legal right to her own children; and al-
though the smallest school boy will tell us a
Republic is a government by the people and
for the people, and that the United States is a
Republic, we are forced to correct him and say,
oh, no, my son, the United States is governed
only by one half the people. The other half
are slaves, governed, controlled, cared for and
protected by the half who wield the ballot—
		[ Continued on page 78.]


[Column 1]

