IN RURAL ENGLAND.

IV
	After the conversation between Sir Edward
and Dr. Bland, Miss Conway's mind was more at
ease, she felt that the responsibility must here-
after rest with the father, yet no understanding
had taken place between her cousin and her-
self, and she wondered whether her cousin had
replied to the letter from Mr. Walton, and felt
reluctant about making any inquiry or calling
the matter in question.
	A few days passed, and Sir Edward im-
proved rapidly, he was more cheerful and
talkative, though he never in any way referred

[Column 2]

to young Walton or the letter. Finally he
announced positively his intention of going
abroad soon, and requested the young
ladies to prepare their wardrobes, so as
to be ready on short notice. The Dr. had
given his permission, in fact had stated to Sir
Edward that it was the best thing for his
health and spirits. Sir Edward sent off to
London for his solicitor, so that all arrange-
ments might be made without his having to
leave temporarily the house, and the lawyer
was not long in answering the summons, for
knowing of the recent illness of his Lordship,
he naturally enough imagined that his affairs
should be looked into while there was oppor-
tunity.
	Mr. Burke (the family solicitor) knew more
of Sir Edward's family than even Dr. Bland,
and the three men were closeted together on
several occasions, which caused some anxiety
on the part of the household, especially the
young ladies. The upper servants gossiped
considerably over the matter, and the house-
keeper who assumed a great deal of import-
ance, having been left so much in charge pre-
vious to Miss Conway's coming, repeated to that
young woman some of the servants’ gossip, one
day when she was particularly loquacious, and
although the young lady did not think the
information altogether reliable, considering the
source, and feeling sure it had been obtained
by eaves-dropping, yet she felt there might be
a spice of truth in it and therefore listened a
few minutes to the housekeeper's version. Mrs.
Hess in her most gracious manner said "The
master would na go up to London to see after
his own business for fear Lady Anna might
get to see that young feller that came prowl-
ing around while he was away before—he's
after na good, I can tell ye Miss Conway
doubtless he's na better'n his father were, and
he stole Sir Edward's sweetheart away, and all
the time ptetendin to be his best friend. Rich
folk are na better'n poor ones, and not as 'onest
sometimes, do'ye know Miss Conway that
lawyer from London is makin a new will out,
and the old'un is burnt, and the master's afraid
he'll die in foreign parts and he wants things
settled so's if Lady Anna marries that feller
he'll not get his money not a shillin."
	Miss Conway thinking Mrs. Hess had gone
quite far enough into the secrets of the family
coolly replied, "I cannot listen to gossip like
this, excuse me, my uncle will be wanting me.',
The housekeeper was quite offended and
muttered to herself, "gentle folks are all alike
never want their affairs talked over, may be
she thinks we don't know how poor she was
when her uncle took her in, and now she don't
even want to be spoken to by a decent body
like me, that's been in this house ten years an'
more," and off she went to her own room to
regale herself with tea and something stronger
that she "al'ays kept by her in case o'sick-
ness."
	Miss Conway could not help thinking over
what the old lady had said notwithstanding
her distaste for 'servants gossip," and she felt
rather uneasy lest her cousin should be de-
frauded of her rights, still she placed great
coufidence in Dr. Bland's judgment and felt he
would be interested in having all legal mat-
ters disposed wisely.
	The same evening after this harangue of the
housekeeper's, a most unexpected occurrence,
transpired, that gave Miss Conway's sensibil-
ities another shock. The day was a very cold
one and the wind whistled and moaned ground
the old buildings, and swayed and bent the
great bare elms in the yard, as though in
agony and gloomy forebodings settled down
upon the mind of the Baronet's niece, she
seemed to dread something she knew not what:
she tried to throw off the feeling, took up a
book to read, unfortunately the book contained
only old legends that impressed her more

[Column 3]

gloomily she laid it down, stirred the fire in
the grate, the very air seemed oppressive, she
looked at her cousin, who sat silently musing,
it was growing dark, she rose and was about to
draw down the blinds, when she perceived the
shadow of a figure in the shrubbery, when she
looked more closely it had disappeared;
feeling sure some one was lurking  near
with a purpose in view, she left the library
where her cousin was sitting so composed, and
taking up a scarf that hung in the hall, and
carelessly wrapping it around her, so as to
screen her face a little, she stepped out
into the open air and soon reached the old
garden, where she felt sure some one was in
waiting. She was right, a woman came hastily
forward evidently greatly agitated and with-
out attempting to conceal her emotion in a soft
mellow voice and touching Miss Conway's arm
nquired, "Are you Lady Anna Hilliard?"
"No, madam, I am her cousin!" replied the
young lady, at the same time realizing she was
most awkwardly situated and by her own voli-
tion; she was sorry for having come into the
garden, and a hundred thoughts and evil pre-
monitions crept into her mind momentarily.
	The stranger hesitated when she learned it
was not the one she had supposed, and her
silence was only broken by suppressed sobs
that seemed to come from her inmost heart.
At last she said "I am treading on dangerous
ground, but my errand here justifies the
veuture. I am the mother of Lady Anna's
lover, and I must see her if it be possible, you
who refused my boy admittance, will surely not
deny his mother, I implore you to allow me to
speak to her for a few minutes here and alone.
My carriage waits outside the grounds of the
Castle. I have stolen my way hither, must I
ask in vain of you—a woman?" All this
seemed to come in a torrent of speech, and
Miss Conway regretted more than before that
she had precipitated this unexpected interview,
she did not dare to promise, she was afraid of
the consequences, but some reply must be made
immediately, and she answered with as much
assurance as she could collect. "My cousin is
not well; excitement would be dangerous for
her, my uncle is at home, and his consent
would be necessary." The lady hesitated and
finally said "I will even risk that if it can be
done without the knowledge of any other per-
son. My presence here would be ruinous to
all my son's hopes. I will wait until you re-
turn," and the lady shivered with nervous
tremor. She was wrapped in heavy furs, her
long cloak came to her very feet, her face
though sad was extremely lovely, and she had
the peculiar fascination that in woman seldom
fails to secure its object.
	While Miss Conway was absent she paced up
and down the old, wild garden, her thoughts
busy with the past, how strange that she
should come bending for favor to this place
where for nearly thirty years she had been an
utter stranger, and to him of all others, who
had thrown her love away as though it had
been a blight upon his life; the time seemed
long to this beautiful woman, yet it was only
a few minutes.
	Poor cousin Jane seemed doomed to be a
mediator and messenger of evil tidings and on
this occasion, strange, passing strange was her
message to her uncle she did not stop to con-
sider the danger to herself, or to him; she
thought only, how important must be the
matter that would cause a lady of rank and
station to come at night, alone, unbidden into
the garden of her sworn enemy; the very
thought gave her courage; she hastened to the
house knocked at the door of her uncle's room
and in a moment was in his presence. Before
he could speak, she hurriedly explained her
errand, and was surprised when he said, "I
will see Lady Walton myself, if she will come


[Column 1]

into the drawing room with you, but she must
not see Anna."
	Miss Conway did not wait for her uncle to
change his mind but flew to the garden, and
delivered his answer in the exact words.
Meantime Sir Edward suffered the most con-
flicting emotions. It was years since he had
seen this woman, he fancied that like himself
she would have grown old and clumsy, and
yet somehow his heart beat more rapidly as he
neared the drawing room;—he opened the
door. she was not there, he stood a moment
waiting, and growing more uncomfortable, for
such meetings are more awkward when one
waits, he heard footsteps and felt nervous
enough to hide himself like a bashful boy—
but Jane came to his relief, with the lady
leaning upon her arm, he was non plussed when
he saw this charming aristocratic woman in-
stead of one faded, wrinkled and grey that he
could scarcely even say "Lady Walton"—but
he was a man of the world, and he would not
let her see his embarrassment. His niece had
arranged seats for them by the fire, and with-
out the ceremony usual among people of rank
they were soon seated; while Jane stood as if in
doubt what the next move was to be. "I
make no apology for my presence here which
must be in the light of an intrusion, but I come
to speak for Maitland, my son," said the Lady,
"he has fallen desperately in love with Lady
Anna, your daughter, do not destroy his happi-
ness, and wreck his hopes as you once did
mine;" the Baronet rose to his feet, and turned
deathly pale—Jane feared he was going to
faint—she knew not what to do, or say, the
look upon his face was alarming, he tried to
speak—Lady Walton too had risen from her
chair, it was the first time they had met for
many years, and no explanation had ever been
made, and now the truth was coming to light,
the deception that had separated them, at last
he stammered, "I do not understand you, but
I cannot speak of that terrible past it is buried
forever." "Shall there be peace between us
then?" said Lady Walton in her sweetest voice,
the tears filling her eyes as she spoke, and
reaching out her hand to him, from which
she had hastily removed her glove. Sir Edward
would have been a brute indeed if he
could have refused such an offer, he was about
to raise the proffered hand to his lips, but she
withdrew it from his grasp and retreated a few
steps backward, and as she did so, said, "Sir
Edward what answer have you to make to my
question concerning our children?" "I cannot
answer on the impulse of the moment, this in-
terview has been a painful one I fear to both
of us, I will think the matter over, send the
young man to me I will see what there is in
him, as for Anna, she is a child, her mother
over again, she does not know what love
means, I am going to take her abroad, thought
of leaving the old ruin tomorrow;"—"but you
will wait until you have seen my boy Sir
Edward," said Lady Walton. "I suppose I
must, women generally have things their own
way, but remember I make no promises." And
so ended this strange meeting, without a good
nigh;t the Baronet insisted upon seeing her to
her carriage, but she would not permit it, his
niece accompanied her and saw her safely
seated inside, then hurried to the drawing room
where she had left her uncle; he was watching
for her to inquire what the Lady had said after
leaving him. "Not a word about you or the re-
sult of the interview, she pressed my hand at
parting and said, you are a wonderfully self-
possessed young woman, your presence gave
me great courage." "Sit down Jane" said her
uncle, "I want to talk to you, of the past, it
has been a sealed book for many long years;
but I must open its pages now, the time has
come, and you Jane are worthy my confi-
dence."
	It was late when the Baronet retired to rest

[Column 2]

that eventful night, and his nurse had to give
him an opiate, lest he should not sleep at all,
the remembrance of the past was awakened,
and the woman whom he had hated with
bitterness had come entreating a favor at his
hands; that she was still beautiful was greatly
to her advantage, had she been ugly and
wrinkled her cause might have been lost. He
had opened his heart to Jane, told her how
this woman had jilted him, and how after some
years of bachelorhood he had married Anna's
mother, a sweet-tempered, affectionate, angelic
young girl, an only daughter of an illustrious
family, who adored him with her whole soul.
	As for Jane she never closed her eyes, that
night at all, she hardly knew what to think,
she had only been in the house a few months,
and strange events had crowded one upon
another until her brain was almost bewildered
clear headed as she had thought herself; as
she lay trying to rest herself she pondered
upon the morrow, the coming of Maitland
Walton, her uncle had signified what his
answer would be to this young man, in his
conversation with her, and she could not help
wondering what would come next, and whether
after all they would go to Italy, at any rate
she hoped so, and that might change many
other things.


