			UINTAH STAKE.
	Seventh Conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah Stake convened in the Ashley Ward
meeting house Sept 7th 1891. Pres. Sarah
Pope presiding. Singing, “Come all ye saints
who dwell on earth,” Prayer Bro. C, F. B.
Lybbert. Singing, "Redeemer of Israel.” etc.
minutes of previous conference read and
approved.
	Pres S. R. Bennion was pleased to meet
with the sisters in the capacity of a Relief
Society conference. “We are living in a very
peculiar time. We should teach our children
to pray it is very necessary for them to grow
up in the fear of the Lord, have thought many
times that there is not as much interest taken
with the children as there should be;” Gave
some very good instructions to wives and mothers
Bro, E, J- Langhurst “The Lord has said
that where there were but few met together
in his name he would be there and that to
bless them. We are the greatest blest
people on the face of the earth if we only
realize it; We have had a testimony of the
truth of the Gospel, and all the promices that
the Lord has made we shall inherit, if we only
prove faithful, but if we do not He will pour
out scourges upon us until we will become as
one. If we lack wisdom let us do as Joseph 
Smith did ask of God, who givith to all men
liberally and upbraideth not.
	Sister Sarah Bird felt thankful for the
privilege of meeting with the sisters; asked
the blesssng of the Lord to rest upon all.
	Bro. N. Merkley said there was nothing
that would make a man feel happier than when
he came in from a hard day’s work to find a
good-natured wife with a clean house and
supper ready, and hear the merry voices of his
children to welcome him home; spoke some
on the principle of tithing.
	Bro. Charles Bartlett said the time was not
far distant when the sisters would have all
they could do in discharging their duties; if
we do not store our minds with useful know-
ledge the time will come when the duties of
motherhood will be a sore trial for us for
when the brethren are all away we will have
to shoulder the whole care of the family,
therefore it is necessary for us to be prepared
to do so. Conference adjourned until 2 P M
Singing, “How firm a foundation ye saints of
the Lord,” Benediction by Sister Phebe Hislop.
	Afternoon session opened by singing, “Who
are these arrayed in white,” Prayer by Sister
A. K. Barlett. Singing, “Think gently of
the erring one.” The Stastistical and financial
report of the stake was then read. The general
and local authorities were sustained by
unanimous vote.
	Sister Althura Collott said we are all weak
and frail creatures here upon the earth but
we must take our part; gave the sisters some
very good advice. Sister Hadlock bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel; felt to


rejoice that she lived in this day and age of
the world encouraged the sisters to do right.
Sister A. K. Bartlett thought to be a public
teacher was a very peculiar place to stand in;
we little realize the day in which we live.
We should observe the word of wisdom
especially the young people, gave the mothers
some very good instructions in regard to rear-
ing the children in the fear and admonition
of the Lord. We should always send our
children to Sunday school and whenever an
opportunity presents itself we should be there 
ourselves. Parents should instil the word of
wisdom” into the minds of their children. A
young lady should never go anywhere with a
young man whose breath smells of liquor or
tobacco; spoke of the necessity of mothers 
having faith in the Lord and not give up if
sickness should come but rely on the Lord in
all things and if he sees fit to call one of our
loved ones from us we must submit ourselves
to His will: urged the sisters very forcibly to
teach their girls to become good and useful
mothers in Israel for we are living in the last
and the eleventh hour and it is necessary for us
to improve every moment. Spoke at some
length on jealousy which was very interesting
to all.
	Sister Freestone was pleased to meet with
the sisters, felt to endorse what had been said
spoke a few words in regard to Primary.
Sister Abplanalp made a few remarks and
urged the sisters to attend to their prayers.
Bro James Hacking said he had been very
much edified with the remarks of the sisters,
wondered how many of the husbands under-
stood their duty, spoke of the evil that were 
placed before us, and showed the reason why
we should try to shun these temptations.
	Pres. Sarah Pope had been much edified
with the remarks of the speakers, said if we
keep the commandments of God there would
not be so much sickness in our midst; there is
temptation on every hand to lead our children
astray therefore it is very necessary for us to
teach them the principles of the Gospel that
they may shun those evils that present them-
selves day by day; we should teach them to
set out trees and raise fruit of their own that
they may not go and steal from others;
exhorted the sisters to be prayerful and
administer to their children when they are
sick, made a few closing remarks. Conference
adjourned until the first Monday in March.
Singing, “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.”	Benediction by Pres. Sarah Pope.
