			CASSIA STAKE.
	At last the sisters of this Stake were favored
by a very much appreciated visit from some of
the General Officers, there being present,
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, Jane S. Richards
and also Sister Rogers of the Primary Asso-
ciation and Apostle F. D. Richards.
	Pres. Louisa Haight presided over the con-
ference and every ward branch was represented
and reported by its respective officers; financial
reports of each ward were also read.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young was introduced to
the conference and spoke at some length npon
various subjects, prominent among which were
the blessings and freedom from temptations to
be enjoyed in a wayside place; developing of
woman’s intellect; sister’s manner of speech of
their husbands and those in authority before
the children, and their conducting of religious
items at home; care of the dead, temple work.
	Coun Jane S. Richards expressed great
pleasure in visiting a place where all are brothers
and sisters; spoke of the many impurities of a
city; the change in woman’s sphere, how she
found it difficult to adapt herself to it, but
testimonies brought her to know there was
other work for woman than household duties;
how easy to neglect meetings and the conse-
quences; how a sisters’s care will prosper in her
absence on religious duties; our remembrances
of kindnesses. Spoke at some length to the
teachers.
	In the afternoon session, Pres. H. D. Haight
spoke briefly. Spoke of the joy felt in the
presence of the visiting sisters; hoped we would
not be overcome by the allurements they re-
ferred to.
	Sister Rogers of Farmington followed with
much good counsel concerning the Primary
Association and care of children; mothers
should not neglect children for work; not let
them run loose; provide them with suitable
amusements; stated the object of the organiza-
tion of the associations; of the evil habit of
borrowing; on governing children.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young further addressed
the conference, giving some instruction to the
teachers in regard to the disposal of wheat and
the practice of raffling.
	Apostle F. D. Richards addressed the meet-
meeting; enconraged the people concerning
their location and felt there was a great future
for the valley; said now while in peace culti-
vate a spirit to stand, for all that can be shaken
will be shaken; spoke of the hickory nut, it
can scarcely be cracked, yet it sprouts and a
tree comes from it, so the Lord will make His
people a tree of life; spoke at great length on

[column 2]
the Prophet Joseph’s views concerning wo-
man’s work and the interest he took to meet
with and instruct them; read several extracts
from discourses delivered to the sisters by the
Prophet; wives are equal to their husbands
save that the power to be head and director in
the Priesthood is given to man alone. Brother
Richards encouraged the sisters in their labors
and exhorted the brethren to assist them; gave
directions as to how they should proceed in
administering to the sick; anything the Lord
has condescended to tell us surely is worthy our
consideration.
	Pres. Louisa Haight hoped we would not
forget but treasure up what we had heard.  
	The General Board and Stake officers of the
Society were sustained by the assembly. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
