Caroline Eyring Miner 502

MOTHERS! Now ZCMI's Story Princess will plan your children's very own parties. AND SERVICE IS WITHOUT COST with purchase of party materials at ZCMI The Story Princess Will: Print and send out your invitations. Select all favors and decorations. Plan your party menu. Arrange games and other entertainment. Order and decorate the cake. Arrange delivery of all food and favors. Just call 3-1575, Ext. 206, and ask for the Story Princess. Here's all you need to tell her: How much you wish to spend. The number of children to be invited. The age of the child whose party is to be planned.

ZCMI T. J. Howells, M. D. UTAH GRAIN FIELD

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.  Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THEVOL. 35, NO. 7 JULY 1948 HILLSIDE GRAIN FIELD Eva Willes Wangsgaard I know departed pioneers have found Their just reward for victory and defeat, But wish they all might hear the happy sound That summer whispers running through the wheat. My grandfather would love to walk these hills, Remembering them as rugged sage terrain Where now a kinder desert sunlight spills Over the rippling crests of mellowed grain. For he was one who loved the feel of soil Pressed in his palm, sifting through finger vents. These amber acres justify his toil, His war with crickets, drought, the elements. He would rejoice to see the victory won And conquered hills wheat laden in the sun. The Cover: The Mormon Battalion Monument, Utah State Capitol Grounds, Salt Lake City. Photograph by Grace T. Kirton.