Relief Society Building News

AS the time of the conclusion of the Relief Society Building fund-raising campaign of one year draws to a close, more and more the members of Relief Society are viewing this great undertaking as a blessing and an opportunity. Different stake and ward officers testify of the love and unity which have resulted among the sisters through working together.

The following excerpts from a letter from Sister Brinton, President of the Maricopa Stake Relief Society, gives expression to the wonderful accomplishments of the sisters of the Page Ward in co-operation with other:

I want to write to you about our Papago Ward. I think there are few stakes in the Church that have an Indian ward and a Spanish ward. These were the ones I worried about with out building fund— ——

I talked to President Wright and asked him to go with me to the Papago Ward. We both spoke and explained the program, and he suggested a banquet.

Then Lorenzo Wright was released and his son Harold made out stake president. ——

We called a meeting of our Relief Society sisters, their bishop, President Wright, Ex-President Wright, and the stake board. When they found we were going ahead with this, they all helped in every way possible. The bishop gave twenty every week. The rest of the board have helped often.

The sisters made many beautiful articles to be sold: four quilts appliqued, one pieced, baby quilts, aprons, dresses, dish towels, hot pad holders and many other useful things. They have really worked. Twenty seven are enrolled and twenty-two were there most every week. Some of them walk three miles to their meetings.

Two sisters who are old and nearly blind have made pot holders on a frame and have enjoyed doing it so very much. Our sisters helped plan the dinner, helped with the cooking and serving. We took charge of it. The M.I.A. girls served; they were so cute wore white blouses with dark skirts and made white crepe aprons for each one. The boys helped with the serving and they were really good.

Blinder who is a senior in high school, took charge of the decorations. He had three men help him and they did a fine job of it. The flower arrangement was very fine. 'The women made green crepe paper flounces on pint bottles for vases. It was interesting to watch them and see the art with which they work.

I have never seen them so interested in anything before.

Claudina, their Y.W.M.I.A. President, planned the program. It was all Indian and very fine. The program lasted about an hour. It was well worth the money without the dinner—violin solos, duets, quartets, stories, and Indian dances. We planned on serving two hundred and served more than three hundred. We had to send out and get cake and ice cream to give the ones that helped. It was a real thrill to me and they are so happy and so proud that they could do it.

The money is such a small part of the good that has been done.

Thanks for the opportunity to help these people.
Martina Schurtz, our Papago president, lives in Mesa and works at a cleaners. She misses work every Monday and goes to her meetings. That means eight dollars a week or thirty-two dollars a month to attend Relief Society. That is a lot for anyone to give but for an Indian woman who works for a living, I feel she is making more of a sacrifice than anyone else I know.

After sending the $135 to you they will have over $200 left to get something for their association. We are anxious for them to get a good electric machine, an iron, and cabinets to keep their things in.

Our Spanish ward had a banquet or Spanish dinner to raise their fund. Some gave the five dollars but so many could not. They all helped with it and it was very fine.

Josephine Mortensen is a very splendid person and a real leader. They were the first ward to go over the top and of course were very proud of it.

Mable King, our music leader, helped with their program and it was very good.

At our Papago dinner President Lorenzo Wright paid honor to Josephine our Spanish president as we did not have a chance at their program. They work so hard and have many difficulties to overcome that we do not have in our other wards. This makes us appreciate the advantages we have.

PAPAGO WARD, MARICOPA STAKE, COMPLETES ITS BUILDING QUOTA

April 19, 1948

This photograph was taken the night of the banquet and bazaar so interestingly described by Stake Relief Society President Vida D. Brinton in her letter which is printed herewith.

Relief Society Building News
443

RICHMOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, WASHINGTON STAKE, PRESENTS BUILDING QUOTA TO STAKE PRESIDENT

April 30, 1948

Left to right: Secretary-Treasurer, Eleanor P.

Gill, Florence Buster; President Gertrude M. Smoot; Second Counselor Lucille Blackman; Gwendolyn T. Gwynn, President, Washington Stake Relief Society. Sister Marian V. Elman comments on the very fine accomplishment of the sisters of this ward: "We feel that special recognition should be given these dear sisters who, in only two and a half months, raised their Relief Society building fund quota, being the first society in their stake to make this accomplishment.... The members of this society do not possess a great deal of worldly goods... But they consist mostly of sincere and humble converts to the gospel, who, with humility and prayers in their hearts, set out to do a job which was assigned them to do.... They have also a small dependent Relief Society at Bumpass, Virginia... Which raised $35 and a dependent Sunday School in Howertons, Virginia, which donated $10 toward the quota." 

MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS
Northern California Mission
Eastern States Mission
Samoa Mission
New Zealand Mission

STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS
South Idaho Falls (Idaho)
Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
San Diego Stake (California)
Wells Stake (Utah)
Teton Stake (Idaho and Wyoming)
Granite Stake (Utah)
North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
Emigration Stake (Utah)
Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Rexburg Stake (Idaho)
Uvada Stake (Nevada and Utah)
Utah Stake (Utah)
Seattle Stake (Washington)
San Juan South
Los Angeles Stake (Calif.)
Juarez Stake (Mexico)
Florida Stake (Florida)
Temple View Stake (Utah)
Bear River Stake (Utah)
Parowan WAN Stake (Utah)
Liberty Stake (Utah)
Smithfield Stake (Utah)
Sugar House Stake (Utah)
Salt Lake Stake (Utah)
San Luis Stake (Colorado)
Oneida Stake (Idaho)
Tooele Stake (Utah)

Stake (Utah) 

WARDS AND BRANCHES (IN STAKES) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP QUOTAS
(Since publication of the list in the June Magazine, and prior to June 10, 1948)
Amalga Ward, Smithfield
Beaver East Ward, Beaver
Beaver West Ward, Beaver
Bryan Ward, Sugar House
Burbank Ward, San Fernando
Capitol Hill Ward, Salt Lake
Cardston First Ward, Alberta
Claresholm Ward, Lethbridge
Clarkston Ward, Smithfield
Clawson Ward, Emery
College Ward, Parowan
Dayton Ward, Oneida
El Monte Ward, Pasadena
El Sereno Ward, Pasadena
Emerson Ward, Sugar House
Enoch Ward, Parowan
First Ward, Park
Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake
Garden Creek Ward, Portneuf
Garvanza Ward, San Fernando
Harvard Ward, Liberty
Hawthorne Ward, Sugar House
Hill Spring Ward, Alberta
Holbrook Ward, Snowflake
Jordan Park Ward, Pioneer
Lake View Ward, Tooele
Lehi Ward, Maricopa
Liberty Ward, Liberty
Logan Eighth Ward, Mt. Logan
Logan Third Ward, Cache
Manassa Ward, San Luis
Marlborough Ward, Sugar House
Marsh Center Branch, Portneuf
Marysvale Ward, South Sevier
Montebello Ward, Pasadena
Monticello Ward, San Juan
Morgan Branch, San Luis
Moulton Ward, Raft River
New Castle Ward, Parowan
Ninth Ward, Liberty
Ogden Twenty-third Ward, Mt. Ogden
Orangeville Ward, Emery
Orchard Ward, South Davis
Owyhee Ward, Weiser
Paragonah Ward, Parowan
Pendleton Ward, Union
Preston Seventh Ward, Oneida
Princeton Ward, Park
Ramah Ward, St. John
Richards Ward, Sugar House
Romeo Ward, San Luis
Sanford Ward, San Luis
Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake
Showlow Ward, Snowflake
Smithfield Third Ward, Smithfield
South Eighteenth Ward, Ensign
South Second Ward, Liberty
Springville Fourth Ward, Kolob
Stavely Ward, Lethbridge
Sugar House Ward, Sugar House
Summit Ward, Parowan
Sunset Ward, San Fernando
Tenth Ward, Park
Third Ward, Liberty
Tooele First Ward, Tooele
Tooele Second Ward, Tooele
Tooele Third Ward, Tooele
Tooele Fourth Ward, Tooele
Tooele Fifth Ward, Tooele
Treasureton Ward, Oneida
Twenty-second Ward, Salt Lake
Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake
Twenty-fourth Ward, Salt Lake

BRANCHES (IN MISSIONS) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS
Bishop Branch, California
Bowling Green, East Central States
Burns Branch, Northwestern States
Charleston Branch, East Central States
Chino Valley Branch, California
Crossville Branch, East Central States
Delano Branch, California
Franklin Branch, East Central States
Golden Ridge Branch, Northwestern States
Great Falls Branch, Northwestern States
Harrisburg Branch, Eastern States
Helena Branch, Northwestern States
Indio Branch, California
Leadville Branch, Western States
Lima Branch, Northwestern States
Martin Branch, East Central States
Pontiac Branch, Northern States
Rolla Branch, Central States
Sante Fe Branch, Western States
Scott City Branch, Central States
Scottsbluff Branch, Western States
Sedalia Branch, Central States
Simms Branch, Northwestern States
Thermopolis Branch, Western States
Wasco Branch, California