Here Comes the Parade

Grace A. Woodbury

ALWAYS on the Fourth or Twenty-fourth of July just as the sun came up over the low volcanic ridge east of our town, the cannon on Red Hill boomed, practically shaking the townfolk out of bed. Then the band began to play, "The Star Spangled Banner"; the flag was run up on the liberty pole; the cannon boomed again; small boys began to shout, and the nerve-racking pop of firecrackers began. The glorious day of celebration, with its noise, its crowds, sports, program, and parade was ushered in with the enthusiasm found only in small towns. But it was the parade that highlighted the day for us youngsters.

Of course, the program, held in the stake tabernacle, was all right for the grown folks, but to us, it seemed long and dry. Only the lemonade that was passed around to the thirsty audience in new tin cups seemed worthwhile to us. Of course, running races in the afternoon under the trees on the Square was fun for awhile, with candy and prizes for all the children, but unbelievable as it seemed, you could get full of candy, and carrying what you couldn't eat around in your warm damp hands was a sticky business when the temperature reached a hundred and eight in the shade! But the parade! That was something to behold. We could not wait for it to reach us, so we all raced up the street to meet it.

Such a grand sight—flags, bands, floats, and leading it all was the Marshall of the Day riding on his fine horse. All the rest of the year he was called "Bishop," but on the holiday he was addressed as "Captain." When I asked my mother the reason, she said that he used to be a famous Indian fighter. That information changed him, as far as I was concerned, into a heroic figure, mounted on a noble, high-stepping steed, going forth into battle.

Following him came the martial band, riding in a double-bed wagon, draped with red, white, and blue bunting, and drawn by horses with little flags stuck in their bridles. It seemed to me that they stepped in time to the music of the fife and drums. Then came several more men on horses.

"Who are they?" I asked my mother.

"The dignitaries," she answered.

Of course I then asked, "What are dignitaries?"

"Oh, the mayor, the sheriff, the city and county commissioners."

"What do they do?" I persisted.

"They govern the town, point with pride, and view with alarm," she answered. "But you had better stop asking questions, look what is coming!"

Everyone gasped with admiration as the beautiful float bearing the Goddess of Liberty and her attendants moved slowly down the street. To me those lovely girls in their long, white, star-trimmed robes and tinsel crowns were something out of this world.

The next float also brought ahs Page 445-446 and ohs from the crowd, for Miss Utah, surrounded by girls representing all of the states of the Union, was worthy of the admiration and applause she received. I was so happy to see my pretty Sunday School teacher on the float, dressed in white and wearing a sash tied diagonally across her breast on which was printed in gold letters Idaho. I wondered if when I grew up I would be chosen to represent a state; and a few years later I was, but the letters that my mother carefully stitched on my sash spelled Vermont, and I was vaguely disappointed, for I had always imagined myself as representing Idaho.

The most acclaimed float of them all was a hayrack covered with hay, flags, and dozens of small children who sang, "Zion is Growing." The hayrack swayed and bumped down the unpaved, dusty street. Rippling along each side was a banner made of unbleached muslin ("factory" to us), proclaiming that these children were "Utah's Best Crop." Once my youngest sister was chosen to be one of the sprouts, shall we say, that made up the "Crop," and my pride in her was so great that I scarcely noticed the other children on the float. The horses drawing the next entry, a covered wagon, kept snatching wisps of hay from the "Best Crop" float, which made the children squeal in delighted fright; but the man who drove the team represented a pioneer crossing the plains, and he kept trying to hold his horses back so that they couldn't reach the hay, but his wife and children, also dressed as pioneers, enjoyed the situation, and one of the small boys called, "Let 'em go, Pa, it'll save our hay." Tethered behind the wagon was a milk cow, trudging wearily along, her eyes rimmed with dust and her tail switching constantly in an effort to keep off the torturing flies.

HERE COMES THE PARADE! HERE COMES THE PARADE

The GODDESS OF LIBERTY AND HER ATTENDANTS

How I wished that she could have some of the hay those smarty horses were stealing. "Now here comes something very high-toned," I heard my Aunt May say, and so it was—a shining surrey with fringe hanging elegantly from the top. Riding in it were some of the pioneers of 1847, wearing their very best clothes and the large gold pins that had been given to them at the grand celebration in Salt Lake City in 1897—Utah had been settled fifty years. I wished that my grandfather could have had a beautiful golden pin even if he didn't come to Utah until 1852. Oh, well, I consoled myself, he could write poems about everything, building the temple, digging ditches, why he had a song in the Sunday School hymn book called "Dearest Children, God Is Near You," and wasn't a poem that he had written about these very pioneers going to be read in meeting today? The blaring of the brass band brought my wandering thoughts back to the parade. They were playing "Hail Columbia, Happy Land" with such enthusiasm as to raise the dust, anyway there was lots of dust. And right behind the band came a white-topped, light wagon in which the few surviving members of the Mormon Battalion were riding. It took a lot of imagination to visualize these white-haired, stooped-shouldered old men as strong, firm-footed young soldiers who could march halfway across a continent. Yet, for a brief moment that morning, I had seen our old neighbor, who was now riding with his comrades in the "white top," straighten his bent shoulders and give a snappy salute to the martial band that was serenading him.

But the parade was almost over—just two more features. A float—"Utah's First Settlers"—had an Indian wickiup surrounded by rabbit brush and mesquite boughs and Indians, kindly old Jim (the patriarch of the Shivits tribe), Old Snow, and Yellowjacket, their squaws, and Little Jim and Sally and their son Smoky. Many of the townspeople called to them, "Agua pike way, where are you going?" But the Indians didn't respond by so much as a glance in their direction. They just sat in stolid and dignified silence and ignored the entire town.

My attention was last of all turned to the queer, old two-wheeled cart, drawn by a long-suffering donkey, that brought up the rear of the parade. The driver was dressed in a loud plaid suit much too large for him and wore a derby hat that sat on his ears. When he wasn't prodding the donkey to keep him moving, he played "In the Good Old Summer Time," "Two Little Girls in Blue," and "Yankee Doodle" on his harmonica. A banner stretched across the back of the cart read "Salt Lake Valley or Bust."

Everybody laughed and the donkey suddenly stopped in his tracks with a "rocks will fly from their firm base as soon as I" gleam in his eye.

"Tickle his ear," called someone from the crowd, "Roll on the hind wheels," advised another. "Build a fire under him!"

It seemed everyone but the driver knew what should be done. Suddenly, before he had time to carry out any of the ridiculous suggestions, the little donkey realized that his parade was going on without him, and moved so suddenly that his driver almost lost his derby.

We children also noticed that the parade was leaving us, and we ran down the street and around the corner so that we could see it all over again when it came out on the next street.

INVENTION

Clarence Edwin Flynn

I'm working on a project That should enrich my purse, A gear for clocks and watches To put them in reverse.

So many gray-haired people, With faded, weary eyes, Have asked me to complete it. "Hurry," they say, "time flies."

No, do not be too sanguine, In candor I confess, I've not yet been rewarded With any great success.