The Seventh Handcart Company

Anna S. D. Johnson

I looked upon the monument recently erected on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, honoring the ten handcart companies, I was deeply moved, for it symbolized faith and hope and brought to memory the privation and suffering of the Seventh Handcart Company in which many stalwart and faithful people came to Salt Lake Valley. In the summer of 1850, Apostle Erastus Snow, with three other missionaries, went to Europe to open the Scandinavian mission. Five young men, three born in Copenhagen and two nearby, all between the ages of eighteen and twenty-two, became very much interested in this new and different religion called Mormonism. They attended the first meeting with renewed spirit, and then, after about three months, three of these young men were converted and baptized. Before another year passed the other two boys also joined the Church. Being of strong character, they were anxious to do whatever was asked of them. President Snow set them apart as: local missionaries to travel without purse or scrip to preach the gospel in Denmark and Norway.

During the five to seven years they spent as missionaries, they were mobbed, thrown into prison, and went through much persecution. But, despite these hardships, they converted many. The greatest joy of their lives was realized when they were released to come to Zion, bringing with them their fiancées and families whom they had converted. These young men planned to be married upon reaching the Great Salt Lake Valley, but when they arrived in Liverpool, they discovered that Elder John Kay was returning to Zion on the same boat, The Westmoreland, with them, and it was unanimously decided that he should marry the young couples before setting sail. What a thrilling romance to be married in such a manner! Mr. Deacon, captain of The Westmoreland, did his share in making a pleasant reception on the ship. About 500 saints and emigrants were aboard. Most of the passengers were friends and converts, happy with the thought of coming to Zion, and all joined in a joyous outburst of song and hurrahs in congratulation to these five young couples. The crossing took thirty-six days. The emigrants landed up the river near the Philadelphia shore. What happiness they expressed as they touched their feet on American soil! A diary of 1857 states: They then traveled until they came to a place below Iowa City which was green and lovely, with a spring nearby. Here they were met by President John Taylor, who gave them instructions on how to prepare for the trek across the plains. How little they knew what lay before them! All was joyous and, after three weeks' preparation, they were hurrying on their way, knowing the fate of the Fifth and Sixth Handcart Companies. Page 449-450 Torleif Knaphus HANDCART MONUMENT, TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY Nor gold nor glory their exalted quest Who won for East the wide unconquered West They toiled o'er frozen crest, o'er parching plain, Eternal wealth in higher worlds to gain. Forever in remembrance let them be, 'Who gave their all for truth and liberty. Orson F. Whitney Companies of the previous year which were not well prepared, and started out too late in the season and were caught in the winter blasts on the plains, many of whom had perished before help came. The Seventh Company, consisting of 334 persons, left Iowa on July 3, 1857. These young couples were light-hearted and gay, singing around the campfires, dancing, holding meetings, and praying together mornings and evenings. However, the trip was arduous and soon food had to be rationed and often they had to go more than a day without water. Then came great thunderstorms. They still trudged on. Such privation and physical endurance was unknown to them. They climbed up and down heavy sand hills and tried to follow the covered wagon trails. Then, besides these troubles, there were the ditches, streams, and creeks which must be waded. The most dangerous place was at Loup Fork where the stream was a mile wide. Here the children were placed in the handcarts but the water came up in the carts and frightened the children. Two ox teams carried the old and sick. The women clung together and got across as best they could. The Indians came to their assistance, but yet it took two days to cross the stream. After crossing Loup Fork, the walking was hard and many times one or more would have to drop at the wayside because they were too weak to go on. The trials seemed almost beyond human endurance, but the saints had spirit and courage, and they traveled on to reach their goal. At Wood River, one of the mothers left camp and, with the help of devoted friends, gave birth to a baby girl and returned to camp the following morning, carrying the child in her apron, and continued on the trek. Indeed it was a strenuous journey, as one-tenth of the company died. Yet the only time my mother mentioned the hardships was when her shoes wore out and she used burlap around her swollen, bleeding feet to protect them from the thin ice that had formed on the streams. Many had torn, bare feet when they arrived. For three weeks they were without meat, and not one of them dared kill a buffalo for fear of a stampede. This was understandable, for none of the company was much used to firearms. As they were traveling, many unusual things occurred. Of much interest was the Johnston Army of 1857, traveling on the other side of the Platte River with their bountiful supply of everything. What they thought of this poor handcart company will never be known, but one day one of the army officers approached the handcart camp and said very kindly that one of their oxen had had its foot crushed and if they cared for the (Continued on page 501) From a painting by C. C. A. Christensen HANDCART COMPANY, 1857 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women of All Nations" THE NECESSITY OF PRAYER: I fully realize that the unexpected duties the young daughters of Zion are frequently called upon to perform remind us that we should always be prepared, and without we live prayerful lives we cannot do right. We are different to the world; they have no revelation to guide them which we claim to have, and if we write or say anything that is not according to truth and righteousness, those who are over us (being placed there by the Lord) can soon detect an error, and so can those in the Church who may read and learn what we say, for those who do right all see eye to eye. Let us pray for our brethren and sisters who are over us in the Lord, who are ever on the watchtower, for we are told to do so, and it is a pleasant duty for us, so let us be friends to each other, trying to overcome everything wrong, that we may be as the wise virgins, having oil in our lamps, not copying after the world—Mary A. Freeze FROM OGDEN: On Thursday, July 19th, there will be an Anniversary Meeting in Ogden, at the Tabernacle, to commemorate the last visit of Pres. Brigham Young to that city, and also to celebrate the first appointment of a President to preside over the sisters' organizations in a Stake capacity. Pres. Young, at the meeting in the Ogden Tabernacle, July 19, 1877, appointed Mrs. Jane S. Richards President over the Relief Society and Young Ladies' Associations in all Weber Stake, and said quarterly reports were to be given of the condition of each Society, and gave much valuable instruction at that time. Pres. Young in his remarks said, concerning the mothers: "Mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations," and he exhorted mothers to teach their children not to make war, but to teach them peace.

He asked the question, "Who gives the key to the nations of the earth? It is the mothers!" His instructions were most fatherly, and it seemed as though every one present felt the influence thereof. It was the last time he spoke to the Relief Society and Retrenchment Associations, and it seems most proper to commemorate the event.

ARISE! SHINE! FOR THY LIGHT IS COME!
Arise! Arise! Thy light is come!
O, Zion, rise and shine!
Put all thy beauteous garments on,
Uplift those eyes of thine,
For glory all unspeakable
Is risen over thee;
Thy Lord, the incomparable,
Thy light and joy will be.

—Lu Dalton

WHAT CONSTITUTES A TRUE WOMAN:
True womanhood defined, implies virtue and purity, love and friendship, truth and sympathy, grace and refinement, modesty and intelligence. Though her sphere may seem humble, yet she can make it noble and queenly. She must live for those around her, and not for self alone. It is hers to rear the souls of men, to form the characters of future generations. It is a duty that each woman owes to her family and to society—to be cheerful and pleasant, courteous and friendly, neat and cleanly in her personal habits.

I would say to the daughters of Zion, be humble and prayerful in order to retain the Holy Spirit to direct our minds, our words, our deeds, that we may be worthy the name of true, noble women—daughters of God.
—Truth Page 452
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

CHOSEN from among all the state "Mothers of 1948" and a few extras, Mrs. Helen Gartside Hines of Springfield, Illinois, was selected United States "Mother of 1948." Sixty years old, she has ten children, nine of whom served in the armed forces during the war. She has the largest family listed in Who's Who in America. She has served on the Springfield school board and is the author of articles on family life.

FRIEDA MILLER, director of the United States Women's Bureau, believes that any woman who will fit herself for a post can have a career after she is forty. She must, however, be flexible and able to adjust.

AN interesting recent convert to the Church is Agnes Dalziel Hitchings, noted portrait artist, who has studied with some of the world's best teachers in Paris. A native of Scotland, she has painted in the African deserts and in tropical isles.

ELsie Jensen (Mrs. Philip Brach), regional director of the American Association for the United Nations, with offices in Los Angeles, has been a teacher among the California Indians, and was a member of the United Nations Delegation to the UNESCO Conference at Mexico City. An ardent worker for international peace, she addressed the Soroptimist convention in Salt Lake City.

Soroptimist clubs in Denmark, China, and England are exchanging knowledge of their respective countries.

Mrs. Amy Mellor Howe, ninety-four, an active genealogical worker in the Church, died in March in Salt Lake City.

PORTLAND, Oregon, has elected its first woman mayor, Dorothy McCullough Lee. Mrs. Lee unseated Mayor R. E. Riley, winning more votes than he and five other male candidates combined. Mayorelect Lee will introduce the city manager type of government and will take official charge of the police department. A promise vigorously to combat vice was a major plank in her platform.

F Stone and Star, a recently published anthology, contains poems by the Utah Sonneteers: Alice Mortey Bailey, Claire Stewart Boyer, Leila Grace Bassford, Maude Blixt, Christie Lund Coles, Berta Huish Christensen, Vesta Pierce Crawford, Beatrice K. Ekman, Anna Prince Redd, and Dorothy J. Roberts. The poems cover a wide range of subject material and reveal much variety in creative technique. Most of the authors are well-known to readers of TheEight of the women represented have been successful contestants over a period of years in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest.

Page 453

EDITORIAL
Vol. 35 JULY 1948

Shrift as a Way of Life
LATTER DAY Saint women have been given the priceless heritage of thrift. From frugal New England housewives, from industrious European homemakers, from wise pioneer women who loved their homes and considered work a privilege, has come this tradition of thrift. It is a most wholesome and valuable combination of industry and economy, and may be explained as the unusual ability to do without—to make things do or to make them over—to create something from nothing, as the saying goes.

The heritage of thrift, which was a necessity for survival in pioneer days, is still of great worth and is the mark of a good housekeeper even in our mechanized civilization. The criterion so well defined in Proverbs (31:10-31) is still applicable to all women, even to those who live in cities, for thrift is, as explained in scripture, a virtue of many phases, embodying particularly the wise selection and securing of life's necessities and a careful use of everything.

A virtuous woman seeketh wool and flax, a worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household.... She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.... She is not afraid of the snow... For all her household are clothed with scarlet.

Page 454

Examples of pioneer thrift, many of which apply equally well to the troubled days in which we live, are numerous. "Take, for instance, the father's outworn suit or the mother's unfashionable coat. What happened to them? They were made into trousers and a jacket for the young son or into a skirt and coat for a growing girl. Then, again, the same material was used for a still smaller child. Eventually the original article of clothing found its way into a quilt, a rug, or into the covering (or stuffing) for a chair. Even the final scraps of a ragged rug became part of a mattress or a cushion. At times, even thread was saved and no buttons or fasteners were discarded.

The long series of articles made from one piece of material were neither ugly nor cheap looking, but were made lovingly, with much attention to fine detail. And the bread which the industrious homemaker prepared for her family—what was the process there? Whole-wheat flour (often ground at home) was used, and when the brown loaves had been slowly baked they were (and still may be) a great delicacy. Dry bread was never wasted. If not used with milk or in soup, it was ground and kept handy for toppings on baked dishes, for making dressing, or for use in puddings.

Soap making was another pioneer art which is still useful. Very few homemakers who do not throw away enough fats and grease to provide at least part of the necessary laundry soap. And soapmaking is not a difficult process, and it is fun to do.

The creative and constructive abilities of women find satisfying expression in securing, preserving, and using the necessities of life—in making an art of homework. The home and its surroundings are a wide and wonderful world, filled with infinite possibilities.

To paraphrase Proverbs, if you would find a happy woman, look for one who is busy in the ways of thrift, who considers homemaking an opportunity for the development of many skills. Who maketh herself coverings of tapestry... She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness." V. P. C.

Birthday Greetings to Sister Augusta (Winters Grant Age ninety-two). Church and honored as a leader among her people, Sister Grant has lived a full, rich life and has contributed liberally of her means, her gifts, and her talents to increase the happiness of others. All of the great blessings which may come to a woman have been most bountifully bestowed upon Sister Grant and she has regarded each blessing as an opportunity for growth and development and the enrichment of her gracious personality.

Daughter, wife, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother—these words which represent the important phases of life for a woman—all apply to Sister Grant. And more have been added—teacher, friend, companion—an ideal Latter-day Saint woman who well deserves that treasured title.

On this anniversary, Relief Society women everywhere, and many other well-wishers and friends, extend to Sister Grant heartfelt greetings for this her natal day and for all the days to come.

Three-Part Story to Begin in August

"The Russells Did Not Go to Church," a three-part story by Edith Russell, will begin in the August issue of the Magazine. A vital and thought-provoking narrative of the spiritual aspirations of a young girl and her search for religious truth, this contribution to Latter-day Saint literature will constitute the first appearance in our Magazine of a young English author of great promise who is now making her home in Utah.

Editorial 455

Flower Arrangements for Summer Days
Vesta P. Crawford

SUMMER brings a rich array of colorful blossoms, offering such exquisite variety in form and color that many different floral compositions may be designed. Remember that it is better to use a few flowers in any arrangement than to bunch them closely. Lightness and grace are fundamental to the perfection of a floral symphony.

Many homemakers who have a special gift for color appreciation find that a flower arrangement which uses different tones of the same color is a delightful diversion. Pale pink roses as the center of interest, combined with deeper pink gypsophila or forget-me-nots, make a bouquet that will not soon be forgotten. One tall spike of deep pink delphinium might add grace to such an arrangement.

It is a delight to use the various tones of blue, or blue with white, for summer designs. For a regal design of dignified formality, use gladioli, being most careful to cut the stems in various lengths so that the topmost buds will be graduated.

Points of Interest for Summer Flowers
W. Atlee Burpee

"ALLDOUBLE" PETUNIAS These intricately ruffled petunias are the first truly "alldouble" type created in America. This arrangement is composed of various blendings of pale pink to dark rose color.

Page 456

Grace T. Kirton

Note the figurine at the graceful lines night.
W. Atlee Burpee

GRACE T. KIRTON

Ruby Larkspur
Mottled Sego Lilies

The rich, dark-colored blossoms are patterned in a triangular-shaped bouquet in a cream-white, flat bowl.

Grace T. Kirton

MOTTLED SEGO LILIES
Fragile blossoms in a tall crystal vase. The larger, fully opened flowers are placed at the base of the design.
W. Atlee Burpee

W. Atlee Burpee

ELEANOR PETUNIAS
Pale-colored petals marked with dark red throats make a striking design in this rustic wood bowl.

CHRYSANTHEMUM-FLOWERED NINNISAS
The dark, gold-colored flowers appear at the base of this floral design, with the pale-colored blossoms at the top.
Questing Lights
Belle Watson Anderson

Chapter 4 Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay leaves his mother and his fiancée Jane Allison in Scotland and joins his friend Hugh Shand to emigrate to America. They meet Mother MacKinlay and her son Bob, whom they had known while doing missionary work, and become acquainted with Kathleen Coleman and her friend Margaret Purvis. Hugh and Kathleen are married on board the ship.

While in Iowa preparing for the handcart journey across the plains, Margaret tells Mother Mac that she is in love with Andrew, and Kathleen informs them that she is expecting a baby.

MARGARET looking questioningly at the sky, reechoed some ship lore: "Red skies at night, the sailor's delight. Red skies in the morning, a sailor's warning."

Mother Mac tried to appear unaffected by such dark forebodings. "I'm not so sure that those heavy clouds are not the emigrants' warning. Oh, well, there must always be some change in the weather," she added.

It rained all night and was still raining the next morning. As always, the handcarts and wagons needed repairs. The company decided to wait a few hours and let the animals graze further away from camp as grass had been scarce for several days. The women caught up with their mending. Mother Mac, with Margaret's help, cooked a boiled dinner. How much it was appreciated was expressed in the amount they did not leave on their plates.

"My only wish," Hugh spoke very gratefully, "is that every family going across the plains could have a Mother Mac to help them out."

"If they haven't, we'll loan them Margaret." Andrew smiled a most tormenting smile at the lady in question. "We neither borrow nor lend," Mother Mac spoke up quickly, "and if Margaret were loaned, not one of you should eat a bite until she was returned."

"Then we'll keep Margaret," Andrew laughed.

"How very much a man loves his stomach," Margaret rejoined as she began gathering up the dishes.

"Oh, we'll keep Margaret, all right," Mother Mac returned with finality. "And now, Bob, get some dry wood so we can heat some water for the dishes."

"One more wagon, two more cart wheels, and we'll be on our way. Better hurry those dishes if you're going with us." Andrew patted Mother's shoulder tenderly, but sometimes he loved to tease.

"We'll be ready," Hugh added. "You never wait for the Mac women."

"And no other women either," Hugh added. "If the men were only on the job as much as the women are, things would move along all right."

After helping with the dishes, Margaret stood in the tent door, viewing the landscape. She felt closer to nature after a storm. Everything was nearly dry, although it was still very muddy. Near their tent a stream was running, filled to the top of its banks with the storm's overflow. Its song was gay, noisy, inviting.

Margaret walked to the lone tree on its bank. She became interested. She looked at the tree for a long time. The storm had left it in tears; it had a strange appeal.

"Margaret!" Mother called. "Margaret!"

Margaret could see that the company was on the move. She ran for her cart, but turned to take a last look at the tree. A gentle breeze was shaking its branches; the sun was drying its tears.

"How wonderful are nature's children, how kind," she remarked aloud as she turned to her handcart.

The company was eager to hurry on its way.

The tang of autumn was in the air, with the nights and mornings growing cooler, but for a while the days were perfect for travel. Then, as the season advanced and the days shortened, there were more and more storms, lashed by cold winds. Bad weather slowed down the march, and, in spite of care and earnest watchfulness, the Indians were stealing the cattle. About fifteen in all had been stolen, good, sturdy animals which had carried much of the supplies. This freight now had to be transferred to the handcarts and wagons. In order that the food supply could be carried on the handcarts, the heaviest clothing had to be discarded. This was a heavy blow to the saints.

One windy, bitter cold day they arrived at a fort and prepared to weld and mend some of their broken down handcarts and creaking wagons. Several more days were lost and the autumn winds swept the vast plains. The women dug deep into their hearts and handcarts. At different places along the trail they had bought grain and potatoes. This fort would be the last place they could buy food.

They took tiny gold lockets hanging on fragile chains around their necks, close to their hearts, and gave all their valuable treasures to balance the exchange with the storekeepers. One night, several weeks after leaving the fort, the emigrants stood on the banks of the Platte. The day had been dark and dreary. Through mists and purple haze the mountains stood as a challenge.

Andrew and Hugh gazed across the stream as the shadows darkened. They held out the palms of their hands. It was beginning to snow. Kathleen and Margaret were astounded, and as the snowflakes whitened their carts, Kathleen burst into tears. Mother and Bob finally got the fire to burning.

"I've never seen anything yet that a little faith, and a lot of perseverance wouldn't cure," Mother said. "Common sense told me that the fire wouldn't burn, so I used a little plan on the unusual order. I said a little prayer or two. See how it helps. There's our fire, just as bright as it will ever need to be."

Kathleen dried her tears. Margaret began making up the beds and the men went to their work.

Although there was a good fall of snow in the morning, the company began the trek early. There were good days and there were bad days. 462 When the weather was fair and warm they went ahead rapidly; when it was stormy and cold they did not make much progress.

Then came another very cold day. The snow, which began falling in the forenoon, kept up until nearly dark. The winds blew the loose snow into the trail, and walking was almost impossible. The people were nearly exhausted when they got to camp. The animals were corralled early, supper was cooked, and everyone went to bed as soon as the work was done.

Andrew took the first part of the night for herding. He came in about midnight, threw some logs on the fire, and sat down to wait for Hugh to come on shift. They had to stand guard constantly over the cattle so that the Indians could not steal them.

Mother could not sleep. She arose and made a cup of ginger tea for Andrew. The clouds had cleared away, and one by one the stars began appearing in the sky.

"Mother, I wish you would stay in your bed. You'll catch cold on a night like this. You're something special—take care of yourself," Bob said.

"Will, son, but the moon and stars are so beautiful tonight after our hard day." "What about the snow on the earth beneath the stars? I declare I can't raise my eyes above these drifts."

"There's another emigration company above us. They remind me of our camp in Iowa, a large tent and all the smaller tents. Their lights are bright. The sisters must clean the chimneys, and fill their lamps with coal oil every day," Andrew said.

"Yes, I see what you mean. I wish our lights were as bright tonight," Mother said.

"They are. No storm can dim our lights. 'The candles of the wise virgins shine brightest in the dark.'"

Next day the sun was shining, and it was warm in the forenoon. Noon. In the afternoon clouds began to gather and the wind howled along the pass. In the evening the wind switched to the north and snow began to fall. The temperature dropped. A blizzard whirled over the camp and the people were hardly able to move. It grew colder every minute.

The well helped the sick; the strong helped the weak. Many handcarts were left frozen in the trail. Toward midnight relief came. The winds died down, and the people pitched their tents and built their fires. Many graves were left on the hillside. But if their needs were great, their blessings were also great.

The Lord waited in that valley with the emigrants by night, and many times they felt that the veil between them and their Heavenly Father was very thin. His peace and comfort restored them, and led them back into the road to Zion.

The days grew shorter as they approached the mountains. One cold day, as it began to grow dark, they made camp. Bob and Brother Coleman set up tents and made beds so that the women could get some rest. Margaret urged Mother and Kathleen to lie down while she started supper. She was busy preparing the meal when it occurred to her that she had not seen Andrew come in.

There was a rule that each person should report just as soon as camp was made. Margaret set the food to one side and went in search of Andrew. She made the rounds, and came back to the tents. Mother and Kathleen were asleep. Bob and Brother Coleman were herding the cattle and Hugh was helping with a wagon that had broken down.

Margaret waited. Surely Andrew would come soon. But he did not come. Time was precious; the trail would be filled up with snow. Her duty suddenly was clear to her. Andrew was out on the trail. When it grew cold, the heavy snow would be hard to get through. She must get him and bring him in.

She found her woolen hood, bound her feet and legs in burlap over her overshoes and leggings, put on her heavy coat, took Mother's knitted shawl and threw around her shoulders. She knelt by Mother's bed and prayed for confidence and courage.

Out into the night, out into the trail, she went alone and unafraid. The wind was blowing, but it was behind her. It helped her break the trail. Quietly, peacefully, the time went by, and quietly, peacefully her courage kept her moving forward. She did not know how long—she did not know how far, but of one thing she was certain—Andrew was out there in the snow, and she would never stop until she found him.

Finally she saw what she was looking for, a big object in the snow, the handcart. "Andrew! Andrew!" She almost ran to him. She brushed the snow from the handcart, got his blankets and stretched them out on the cart, then she raised him up, brushed the snow from him, and pulled him onto the blankets. 463 She had Andrew now. No power on earth could stop her. She would take him into camp. It was strange, but the wind that helped her break the trail had changed, and was now at her back, pushing her back to camp. On and on she went. It was not all her own strength that was turning the wheels through the heavy snow. Finally, she saw horses and riders in the distance. She heard voices. President Wood and Hugh were coming to meet her. Soon they would both be safe. "Margaret, don't ever do such a thing again!" But Margaret did not answer. Andrew was safe, and that was all that mattered.

Ee Ke

HE company crossed the river and kept pushing forward, but the snow was deep. The rations grew less and less, until they did not have strength enough to shovel through the drifts. Several days they tried to go on, but it was useless. They made camp in a canyon with protection from the storms, and waited for help from Zion. Margaret spent her time nursing the sick—so many in their own ward needed help and encouragement. One night she came to Mother, overtired after a very hard day. Mother had some hot soup waiting for her. Hugh had killed a doe and he divided it with the aged, and with mothers of small children. Margaret sat down and tried to eat, but the thought of her friends made it impossible. She laid her spoon down by her dish and sat thinking, then burst into tears.

"I canna eat—I canna eat, Mother. My throat fills up and I canna swallow." She laid her head in her arms and began to sob.

Andrew jumped to Margaret's side and called to Mother Mac. Mother took the weeping girl in her arms. The Macs had tried to be cheerful all of the day, but they were weary. Mother's usual smile was gone. She was worried; the last food was in the pot.

Andrew looked about at the serious faces, so unlike the Macs. "What's the matter with the lights?" he asked. Mother looked up without answering. Kathleen and Margaret were sitting on Mother's bed.

"No coal oil," Margaret replied.

Andrew asked them to kneel and repeat the Lord's prayer with him.

"Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed by thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread...."

"Whoa—Whoa—Anybody at home?" A shout in the distance heralding, at last, the hoped-for help from the saints in Zion, was heard. They continued and finished the prayer. Tears were rolling down their faces, tears of gratefulness.

"Thank you, God," Andrew murmured.

Margaret and Andrew rushed to the wagons. The men had removed the wagon tops, so they could get at the food. In their work they knocked off a box of soda crackers. The box broke into pieces when it hit the ground. Margaret stooped down and began to fill her apron with the crackers.

"Wait a minute, Miss. Things must be divided," Andrew's face went white. "You had your breakfast and your dinner. These You'll get your supper," he said shortly. "Remember, Andrew, the Scotch pay for their tempers," Margaret whispered.

The driver stood up and looked around. "Not this time he won't. A million apologies, my brother, take the crackers, all of them, and everything else you can reach. They are all yours—all yours."

Margaret filled her apron and went running to Mother and Kathleen. Andrew followed. He was weak and trembling.

ONE forenoon Margaret searched out Mother Mac in the Shand tent.

"Mother, try to understand what I am going to tell you, and if you can, see it my way. I'm leaving in the morning with Brother Brown from Tooele. He is taking a number of sick people into Salt Lake City and I'm going along to take care of them."

"You made up your mind in a hurry, didn't you, Margaret?"

"Well, Brother Brown was in Great Salt Lake to conference, and when they asked for volunteers to bring provisions out to us, he volunteered. One good turn deserves another. I would like to go."

"I've always had a mind, Margaret, that you would be with me when my baby came," Kathleen voiced her keen disappointment.

"So I would if I could, Kathleen, but you will have Hugh and Mother. My prayers will be with you every day."

"Well, Margaret, if that's the way you want it, I think it's all right. We will miss you, and be sure to take care of yourself in the snow."

QUESTING LIGHTS

But Andrew was not willing to see Margaret go.

"Now you are loaning Margaret," he reminded the women. "Well, we've done pretty well to keep her this long," Mother responded. "All good things must come to an end sooner or later."

Next morning the wagons were ready to take off. Margaret was the last one to be helped into the wagon. The Macs stood nearby with very serious faces. Andrew was drinking water from a tin cup. He had never been able to express his appreciation to Margaret for bringing him in from the trail.

As she climbed up the wheel with Brother Brown assisting her, Andrew forced himself to call to her, "Thanks for saving my life."

She turned on top of the wheel. "Oh, that," she nonchalantly offered, "it was such a little thing, think nothing of it."

Andrew gasped, "My life a little thing, hey? Well, how do you like that?" He threw the water in the tin cup at her.

Margaret dodged and fell head-first into the wagon among boxes, bedding, and sick saints. Brother Brown pulled the canvas up over the front, spoke to his team, and Margaret started on the last part of her journey to Zion. (To be continued)

"THIS JOURNEY MAY APPEAR" Alta L. Leafty

I No room? But oh, there must bel I cannot leave these precious things behind For lustful hands to seize and gloat upon, I could not bear it!

Let me see—Beneath this spinning wheel—could not we find A little space?

You're sure? Oh, John, Please hold me while I look a last farewell Upon this home we built and loved so well.

Il This cannot be the one place Above all others God has chosen for his saints! For this—we left our lands and homes behind, And braved the grasping desert waste? For this—we hushed the sorrowed mother's plaints Lest stalking death creep unawares, and find The rest of us?

O God, pray help me see the blossom that this hiding place shall be.  
This is the place, my son—The ensign your great-grandpa helped to build so long ago; you don't remember him—or me—but brave men like him fought and won the desert over to their way of living; tilled the stubborn soil, and blessed it.  
Years may dim our struggle, but none better knows the tears that fed this blossoming desert rose.  
The wheel.  
Alantly of Andrew gasped, "My life a little thing, hey? Well, how do you throw the water in among boxes, bedding, and sick saints." He reminded Margaret he had helped bring him in from the trail. As she climbed up on top of the wheel with Brother Brown assisting her, Andrew dodged and fell headfirst.  
Brother Brown pulled the canvas down, and Margaret started off on her journey to Zion. (To be continued)  
Nature's Tonic Alice Whitson Norton 669M  
Worn out before the day has really started," Mrs. Walton complained to her neighbor, Mrs. Barnett, when they met at the fence dividing their back yards for the purpose of spreading their freshly washed dish cloths in the sun for drying. As usual they paused for a moment of idle chatter. "You do look a little pale," Mrs. Barnett answered. "Maybe you need a tonic."  
"I do need a tonic," Mrs. Walton agreed, "but what sort of tonic to try next is the question. You see," she went on, "I've just about tried them all—vitamins included—and look at me."  
Mrs. Barnett, complying with the request, smiled faintly. "Now you're laughing at me," scoffed the neighbor, "and me in need of medicine."  
"Not at you, Mrs. Walton," returned Mrs. Barnett. "I was only remembering that I, too, once depended on patent medicines to keep me physically fit—but now—"  
"Know," broke in the woman despondently, "now that you're well and running around to this, that, and the other, you've lost sight of your past ailments."  
"Maybe so," laughed Mrs. Barnett, "for running here, there, and everywhere is just a part of the day's work for me now. But there was a time when I got out of bed each morning, wondering how I could get through the day ahead. But, finally, a good friend pointed out the wonders of nature's tonic to me, and I've been enjoying my existence on this earth ever since."  
"Nature's tonic!" exclaimed Mrs. Walton. "I dare say I've used a thousand bottles of those pills but they never helped me a bit."  
"I'm not talking about bottled tonics," Mrs. Barnett chuckled, "but unbottled and free for the asking."  
Mrs. Walton moved a bit closer to her neighbor. "Just what are you talking about, Mrs. Barnett?" she asked solemnly. "Nobody could look at you and suspect you ever felt bad in your entire life."  
"You should have seen me before I began taking nature's tonic," returned the cheery creature, "mouth down at the corners, drab-colored dresses, mopping, dusting, cooking the day through and making my body miserable about me."  
"But the tonic that wrought the change," interrupted Mrs. Walton, "tell me about that. Where did you buy it?"  
"You don't buy it," laughed Mrs. Barnett. "You earn it, but once you've tasted the benefit you never want to do without it any more."  
"You said a friend pointed it out to you," murmured Mrs. Walton. "Mind telling me how it happened?"  
"Sure," replied Mrs. Barnett, "I can tell you how it happened, but it still embarrasses me."  
Mrs. Walton spread the last NATURE'S TONIC white cloth on the fence and again faced her neighbor. "Strange to say," chuckled Mrs. Barnett, "I was doing the same thing when nature's tonic was pointed out to me as we are doing now, except with another neighbor in another section of this town. And, like you now, I was at that time complaining of my ailments, when suddenly the sunny creature on the other side of the fence burst out laughing."  
"What you need to do," she said, "is to clear your medicine cabinet of every patent medicine bottle it contains; contribute those drab garments you wear to the needy, and start looking for joy and things to laugh over."  
"I hope you slapped her face," Mrs. Walton exclaimed. "The idea of a friend talking like that!"  
"Well," laughed Mrs. Barnett, "I did at the moment feel like doing that very thing, but my friend vanished so quickly after the outburst I missed the opportunity, and later on I found myself thinking—maybe she was right. All the patent medicine I had taken made no improvement in my feelings. I was a stick-at-home. My clothes were drab, chosen purposely because they didn't show soil as much as light ones. I looked like my clothes. The house, though shining with cleanliness, provided a dull atmosphere for my family.  
All day I thought about the matter and remembered with a sudden shock I was living under a weight of constant worry; worry lest some of the children would leave mud tracks on the floor, slam 467 a door, or stage a pillow fight. Worried lest the rent on the house should not be promptly met; the furniture bills not promptly paid; unexpected company might drop in—crossing bridges and climbing hills I never came to.  
By late afternoon I was thoroughly convinced my neighbor was right. What I needed was laughter and happiness that I had so long denied myself."  
"So you changed your mode of living?" Mrs. Walton returned with a long glance at her neighbor's bright, flowered dress. "Yes," Mrs. Barnett answered, "I began by clearing the cabinet—of patent medicine bottles, and giving away my drab garments. Then I looked the house over; removed the chairs from their set spaces; raised the shades and flooded the place with sunshine and started living by a new pattern."  
Whether I felt like singing or not," she continued, "I sang as I cooked breakfast, and when the meal was ready for serving, I insisted the family be at the table to eat, and no disagreeable subjects were allowed for discussion.  
At first the members of my family cast surprising glances upon me, but as time passed and my constant grumbling changed into pleasant conversation, I found the older members of my household kissing me goodbye when they left for work, and greeting me with affection when they returned.  
I really was so busy and so happy learning to live as God created me to live that I lost sight of my ills, and one day to my intense delight, I discovered I was physically well and had learned to laugh; and life with all its problems was moving on a new scale of happiness for me and mine.  
When I grew tired physically," Mrs. Barnett commented, "I dropped whatever I was doing and tumbled down on my very best bed to rest for a full fifteen minutes.

At the end of that period I'd figure out short cuts in housework—good, wholesome meals that could be provided with less physical strength than I had heretofore used, and once I got things systematized, I discovered I really had a bit of extra time on my hands, so I began to attend Relief Society and take part in other Church and community activities. "Today I do believe, due to nature's tonic alone, I am the healthiest, happiest person in the whole, wide world. And there," she said, laughing as the sound of a telephone bell vibrated through the glorious morning air, "is Mrs. Clarke reminding me to lead the singing this afternoon. Bye-bye." With that she went racing across the yard and vanished through the door of the house that had, under the influence of nature's tonic, become a home. "Well," mused Mrs. Walton, with a sudden straightening of her sagging shoulders, "I'm not sure nature's tonic can do as much for me as it did for her, but it won't do me any harm to try her remedy." And now, may I add, at the end of a twelve months' trial, it's hard to tell which of the two women wears the brightest house dresses, or laughs the heartiest when they meet for a morning chat over the back fence. 

Soups—Foreign and Domestic Sara Mills
A NY woman who has a particle of pride in her cooking should have a specialty which she serves at every opportunity. I once knew a fair, sweet-tempered woman whose specialty was cream puffs with caramel sauce. Her friends, including me, would go many unnecessary miles merely hoping that cream puffs would be waiting. I'm as fond of cream puffs as the next one, but somehow I never make them. I wait until they are given me. Soup, as I may have hinted before, is my specialty. The reason for this I have never probed. The recipes given here I have collected and developed through many years. 

Onion soup, French of course, heads the list, perhaps because it is the first good soup I ever learned to make. The recipe serves four.

French Onion Soup
1 lb. Lean beef chopped
water to make 1½ quarts of stock
4 red onions, sliced
1 tbsp. Butter
2 slices toast, grated Parmesan cheese or Swiss cheese to cover toast
salt and pepper

Brown one half of the chopped lean beef in sizzling fat. Meanwhile, soak the other half of the lean meat in cold water for one half hour. Combine the meats, add salt and pepper, and simmer for about six hours. Slice the onions crosswise and fry gently in butter until they are a delicate golden brown. Add the onions to the soup stock and boil for 45 minutes. Now pour the soup into a large oven-proof bowl or casserole. Cover the slices of toast (or croutons, if you prefer) generously with the grated Parmesan or Swiss cheese, slide them gently onto the soup, and bake the soup in the oven for ten minutes. Do this just before serving.

It is a soup beloved by men and good enough for the most special occasion. Another palate-tickling onion soup is made from chicken stock. Brown the onions (one to a person), as in the previous recipe, then add a tablespoon of flour and mix well. Add the chicken stock, and cook as before. Don't forget the toast and cheese. For a change, use thick slices of toasted French bread.

Lentil Soup
This is another importation, hearty and vitamin-filled, that can be used as a one-dish luncheon or dinner, an after-the-game supper, or a Sunday night supper when there is a crowd and no one wants to waste time in the kitchen. Serve it with brown bread and butter. Add a green salad and apple pie, and you have a feast.

The dish serves ten.
1 lb. lentils, soaked in water overnight
1 large onion
2 carrots, diced
2 outer stalks of celery, diced
2 tbsp. butter
4 slices bacon, diced
2 tbsp. flour
4 cans consomme
2 quarts water
1 ham bone
2-3 medium-sized potatoes
10 boiled, sliced frankfurters
a few drops Worcestershire sauce
salt and pepper
lemon slices for serving
chopped parsley

Soak the lentils in water overnight. About two hours before serving-time, dice the vegetables and simmer them in the bacon fat and butter, along with the diced bacon. Do this in a large soup kettle. Next add the lentils and the 2 tablespoons flour. Stir well, and add the consomme, water, and ham bone. Cover and cook slowly for an hour. Next, add the diced potatoes and cook for one half hour. Remove the ham bone, cut the lean ham in pieces, and return to the soup, along with the frankfurters, the drops of sauce, and the chopped parsley. Let simmer for a few minutes before serving.

Place a thin slice of lemon on top of each serving. Taste, and add the necessary salt and pepper.

Cream of Spinach Soup
2 4 cups chopped spinach
1 cup finely chopped onion
1 cup finely diced carrot
3 cups milk
salt and pepper
tsp. mace
1 cup whipped cream
handful of spinach heart leaves

Place the spinach, onions, and carrots in the top of a double boiler, along with 1 cup of milk. Cook covered until the vegetables are tender, then press them through a sieve. Add the 3 remaining cups of milk, salt, pepper, and mace. Simmer ten to fifteen minutes, then fold in the whipped cream. Garnish the servings with the spinach heart leaves, chopped.

Serves six to eight persons.

One last word on soup making: use your leftovers, leftover bones—you pay plenty for them—leftover vegetables, left-over vegetable juices. Cook the bones with any leftover meat in water, salt and pepper, and a handful of vegetables—peas, green beans, carrots, celery, parsley, green squash, etc., with a few herbs. Strain the stock, reheat it with tomato juice, and serve it with crackers or croutons. Sometimes steal a little piece of lean meat from your pot roast or stew and simmer it for several hours with your leftovers. At our house we call it supper broth, and the children love it.