Principles and Laws Governing Good Singing Florence J. Madsen
Member, Relief Society General Board

How wonderful is the human voice! It is indeed the organ of the soul. The intellect of man sits enthroned, visibly, on his forehead and in his eye, and the heart of man is written on his countenance, but the soul reveals itself in the voice only—Longfellow

This is but one of the many recorded statements that have been made by poets, philosophers, and musicians during past centuries on the wonders of the human voice. This high estimate of the voice is just as much a reality today as it was then. This is a golden age of musical possibilities. Most schools and churches regard vocal study and performance as indispensable to the perpetuation and advancement of educational ideals and moral growth. Our Church has always encouraged and stressed the development of musical talents.

Courses have been adopted, singing groups have been organized, and teachers and leaders have been appointed to advance musical culture commensurate with Church ideals and interests. This has led to specialized activity in the art of singing. Vocal art includes several very important factors which, in turn, are made up of many fundamental details. In order to effect further advancement in our singing organizations it becomes necessary to study and emphasize these. Since tone quality is the basic element of beautiful singing, this detail should be given first consideration. The vowel is the source of tone. If it is perfect the tone will be likewise. This fact makes it fundamentally necessary to study the vowel, how to speak and sing it properly. Vowels must be sung without restraint or interference of any kind. To do this the following rules should be observed while singing: a. Open the mouth almost to a yawn position. B. Originate all vowels in the same place, the back of the mouth—the pharynx. C. Sustain all vowels from beginning to end with the same volume unless otherwise indicated. D. Sing the vowels in the easy range of the voice with "M" as the prefix and sustain each one eight counts, four gradually louder (crescendo); four gradually softer (decrescendo or diminuendo). Sing in slow tempo. Then increase to sixteen counts and divide in the same proportion. Avoid all throat restriction and tension of tongue and jaw in all singing. E. To sing properly the chest and nbs must be kept high and expanded, while the abdominal muscles are lifted and contracted. This type of breathing should be practiced until it becomes a habit. This is also essential to good speaking.

[Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting.]

Page 470

Notes On the Authors of the Lessons
This year an author new to Relief Society members appears as a writer of one of the lesson series. Elder G. Homer Durham, author of the social science lessons, "Latter-day Saint Political Thought," is Director of the Institute of Government and head of the department of political science at the University of Utah. A son of George Henry Durham and Mary Ellen Marsden Durham, he was born in Parowan, and educated in the schools of Utah, receiving his B.A. degree from the University of Utah. He received his Ph.D. in political science at the University of California, Los Angeles, and served as a member of the faculties at California, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, and Utah State Agricultural College.

He has written many publications dealing with politics and government. He is author of Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, and the editor and compiler of Gospel Standards (Selections from the Writings and Discourses of President Heber J. Grant); The Gospel Kingdom (Selections from the writings and discourses of John Taylor); and The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff.

Elder Durham has long served the Church as an outstanding teacher and executive officer in various organizations, particularly in scouting, M.I.A., Sunday School, and Priesthood activities. A member of University Ward, Salt Lake City, he was appointed to membership in the Emigration Stake High Council in 1946.

Married to Eudora Widtsoe, daughter of Elder John A. Widtsoe and Leah Dunford Widtsoe, Elder Durham is the father of a son and Donalee.

Jean Ridges Jennings, author of the sewing lessons, "Value of Acquiring Makeover Skills; Makeover Possibilities," also prepared the sewing course outlines for last year.
She was born in Logan, Utah, the daughter of Dr. Alfred J. and Edna Hyde Ridges. Her maternal great-grandfather was President John Taylor and her paternal great-great-grandfather was the well-known and gifted pioneer, Joseph H. Ridges, builder of the original Tabernacle organ. Her maternal grandmother was Annie Taylor Hyde, first counselor to Bathsheba W. Smith in the general presidency of Relief Society. She was reared and educated in Salt Lake City and is a graduate of the University of Utah.

Mrs. Jennings, wife of Brenton W. Jennings, is the mother of a son and a daughter. She combines two interesting careers, homemaking and teaching at the University of Utah in the home economics department. Her hobbies are sewing and gardening.

For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see:
Elder Don B. Colton:page 489, July 1946.
Elder H. Wayne Driggs:page 469, July 1946.
Elder Howard R. Driggs:page 469, July 1946.
Elder T. Edgar Lyon:page 471, July 1946.

Page 471

Page 471
Lesson Department Theology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Elder Don B. Colton Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 This preview of the second year's course in the series entitled "The Life and Ministry of the Savior" introduces the eight lessons for 1948-49. The textbook to be followed again this year is Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage. Each of the first eight lessons of the series for 1947-48 covered two chapters of the text. This year only one chapter of the text will be treated in each lesson, as it is felt that each chapter provides sufficient material to occupy the full theology class period. Material for lesson enrichment will be found in the references at the end of each chapter. Class leaders are advised to guide the discussion in the theology classes so that extraneous or controversial subjects do not enter into it, and only outlined subject matter is considered. The main objective of the course is to give the women of the Church opportunity to study and discuss events in the life of the Savior and his teachings, thereby strengthening their faith and increasing their testimonies. For more than nineteen centuries righteous people have found consolation and hope in such study, and it is hoped that each course in this series will bring increased joy and understanding to Relief Society members.

The titles of the eight lessons for this year's course are the names of chapters 17 to 24, inclusive, of the textbook Jesus the Christ. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow:

Lesson 9. "The Sermon on the Mount" Objective: To create a deep appreciation of the Savior and his gospel by a study of the masterful "Sermon on the Mount."

Lesson 10. "As One Having Authority" Objective: To offer proof that Jesus the Lord possessed the fulness of divine power and authority.

Lesson 11. "He Spake Many Things Unto Them in Parables" Objective: To create a desire to study and understand the gospel of the kingdom.

Lesson 12. "Peace, Be Still" Objective: To strengthen faith in the Lord Jesus Christ through the recognition of his power over the forces of nature, men, and even demons.

Lesson 13. "The Apostolic Mission, and Events Related Thereto" Objective: To show how those who put their trust in the Lord gain spiritual power and knowledge.

Lesson 14. "A Period of Darkening Opposition" Objective: To acquaint class members with the events of the Savior's life during the time he was preparing the apostles for their final great responsibilities.

Lesson 15.

"The Transfiguration" Objective: To become acquainted with one of the outstanding events of the Savior's earthly ministry. Lesson 16. "From Sunshine to Shadow" Objective: To follow the Savior in his final preparation for the supreme sacrifice, and to show how he prepared his apostles for their great missions. Textbooks Talmage, James E.: Jesus the Christ, Deseret Book Company, $2.50. Lesson 9 THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 17 by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, October 5, 1948 Objective: To create a deep appreciation of the Savior and his gospel by a study of the masterful "Sermon on the Mount." Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. THIS great discourse was delivered by the Savior about the time of the calling and ordination of the Twelve, and portions of the address were delivered primarily to them. The sermon has been called the Constitution of Christianity. It does contain many of the fundamental principles. It is a masterpiece of literature. The word pictures are very impressive. Examples: ... A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid (Matt. 5:14). Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? (Matt. 7:16). Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask for bread, will he give him a stone? (Matt. 7:9). For nearly two thousand years, righteous people everywhere have found great consolation in what has come to be known as the "Beatitudes." The assurance that conditions hereafter will be better, has sustained and comforted the less fortunate in every nation. Clearly the blessings and happiness promised are not all to be realized in their fulness in this life. The Beatitudes are directed to the duties of mortal life as a preparation for a greater existence yet future." The question, "How can I be happy?" is uppermost in the minds of most people. What we are determines, largely, our happiness in life. The blessings enumerated by Jesus give us the key: It is being merciful, pure in heart, loving even our enemies; these and others he named as necessary to the "peace which passeth all understanding." It should always be noted that the teaching of the Savior was an invitation to approach his standard as nearly as possible and, with satisfaction, enjoy his message. His intercession for us, individually, is grounded upon merit and, therefore, justice must ultimately prevail. Firm faith in this, and in the final triumph of right, is very comforting. An interesting discussion of the difference between pleasure and happiness is found on page 247 of the text, Jesus the Christ. The Law Superseded by the Gospel - He had come, not to destroy the law, but to fulfill it and to establish that which the Prophets had foretold would come. The explanation of this as delivered to the Nephites is: And it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words he perceived that there I say unto you that the law is fulfilled that was given unto Moses. Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for do not destroy the prophets, for as many as have not been fulfilled in me, verily I have come to fulfill them. The gospel did not destroy the Mosaic law; it supplanted that law by a higher and more perfect one. The law provided specific penalties for an evil deed while the gospel forbade even the evil thoughts and passions which led to the bad deed. A good illustration is the sin against the moral laws. Jesus said this sin began with the lustful look and sometimes with evil thoughts. He struck at the very root of evil. We should avoid evil thinking. The thought is often father to the act, Is pronouncement against divorce was very strong. It may be well for class leaders to read at this point Matthew 19:4-9. God's law contemplates that man and wife shall not be divorced. That was the law in the beginning, although divorce has been permitted, or, as the Savior said, "suffered," at times for particular reasons. Retaliation had been permitted under the Mosaic law. "Thus an eye was demanded for the loss of an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a life for a life." It was the law in those days that if a Roman demanded that a Jew go with him a mile to carry a burden or for other purposes the Jew must so. Jesus urged that one should go the second mile. He probably did not mean that the apostles should be abjectly subservient work in the ministry more efficient. Let there be enhanced. It was an entirely new doctrine the Lord taught: Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you (Matt. 5:44). This would train them to be longsuffering and tolerant as our Father in heaven. He causes the rain to fall and the sun to shine on the just and the unjust. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect (Matt. 5:48). Sincerity of Purpose The Master enjoined upon his followers sincerity and denounced hypocrisy. He was emphatic as regards the giving of alms so that it might be seen of men. The saying of prayers to be heard of men was also severely condemned. Then followed the giving of a model prayer. The Lord's Prayer, as it is called, is so all inclusive and yet so easily understood and soul-inspiring that it should be memorized. (See Matthew 6:9-13.) For the first time permission was given to address Elohim as "Our Father." The common brotherhood of man and our relationship to Christ, our Elder Brother, are clearly declared. One stands in wonder and awe at the nearness to the infinite Deity. We get a glimpse of the reason for God's great love. Our Father! What meaningful words! Read, or sing, that marvelous hymn, "O My Father." (Read Jesus the Christ, pages 238-242.) Another new doctrine: For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you; but if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses (Matt. 6:14-15). Treasures of Earth and of Heaven It is comforting to many to read the Lord's estimate of true wealth. He especially contrasts enduring riches of eternity with the passing wealth of this world. A life well spent in doing good deeds is far more desirable than one spent in amassing and hoarding gold or silver. How oft we hear his statement, "For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Matt. 6:21). When he turned to a discussion of the inner self, the Master showed his keen discernment of the forces of life. "The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thy eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light" (Matt. 6:22).

Of course, he was speaking of the natural or mortal eye. It receives the light of the sun and gives light unto the body. Likewise, if the spiritual eye is undimmed by sin, one can see the pathway to God. Job said, "For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes" (Job 11:4). It is clear that if we are to know God we must serve him and keep his commandments. Especially with the apostles there was to be no middle pathway. Truly Jesus was the Master Teacher. How well he led his listeners from the known to the unknown! He talked of how well the Father cares even for the fowls of the air, that faith might be increased in the hearts of those who heard him. If God fed the birds, and arrayed the lilies of the field better than Solomon was arrayed, how much more would he watch over those whom he had called to be messengers of life and salvation.

Hypocrisy Further Condemned

The followers of Jesus are admonished not to judge others. "It is high time to leave judgment with the Lord. The world, our life eternal with God." Is Contained in Matthew 5:17-20 is in heaven will enter into the kingdom of heaven, hearing and doing.

Jesus knew that some who listened to him delivered his great address and forget it all on earth ever taught us as did Jesus. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion

1. Read the Beatitudes, in them,
2. State some of the instructions which Jesus gave to his chosen Twelve,
3. What contrasts are there between the Gospel of Christ?
4. Repeat the golden rule. Show how faith and love are necessary to live it,

PEACEMAKERS

The days of the Savior. Key to it is far better than securing peace of mind.

Appiness by Securing Peace of Mind 

Assisting Searchers' Messages—Our Savior Speaks Elder H. Wayne Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 THE Visiting Teachers' Messages for 1948-49 will tie in with our theology lessons: "The Life and Ministry of the Savior." The messages will be admonitions and other significant statements of Christ which are timely today. As far as possible, the messages will be suited to the particular month in which they are to be presented. The main title of the series will be: "Our Savior Speaks."

The subtitles for the various months will be as follows:

Lesson 1. "Ye shall do the works which ye see me do." Objective: To present these words in the homes visited as "'the grand key words of the Society" and to point out that the objective of Relief Society has never changed.

Lesson 2. "Where are the nine?" (Luke 17:17) Objective: To warn against the sin of ingratitude.

Lesson 3. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40). Objective: To reaffirm what constitutes the true spirit of giving.

Lesson 4. "In the world ye shall have tribulation but be of good cheer" (John 16:33). Objective: To give encouragement to face the coming year courageously.

Lesson 5. "Judge not that ye be not judged" (Matt. 7:1).. Objective: To point out that it is not our place to pass judgment on another.

Lesson 6. "Ye cannot serve God and Mammon" (Matt. 6:24). Objective: To emphasize that the allurements of the world do not provide lasting happiness.

Lesson 7. "I will not leave you comfortless" (John 14:18). Objective: To point out that we are not left comfortless because of our sure knowledge, through Christ's teachings and the Holy Ghost, of the resurrection.

Lesson 8. "Ye are the light of the world" (Matt. 5:14). Objective: To emphasize that where much is given much is expected.

Lesson 9. "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, October 5, 1948

Objective: To present these words in the homes visited as the "grand key words" of Relief Society and to point out that the objective has never changed.

The Savior in his earthly ministry ever strove to link the spiritual with the temporal. He taught that life on earth had its counterpart in heaven, that, in fact, a "heaven on earth" was the nearest example we could have of the joys in the perfect life beyond. It was through this teaching that he impressed his followers with the need of belief on him and the works that he did. At the ninth meeting of Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' These are the grand key words for the Society to act upon." From that day, in 1842, to the present time, those grand key words have served to guide the society along its path and motivate Relief Society members to perform the work done by the Master.

When we think of the work done by the Savior, we are apt to remember his miracles, but it is significant that our works need not of necessity be these epic-making events. The blind need not be restored to sight, the deaf to hear, nor even the dead to walk again. How then may we do the works which he did? The answer is to be found in reading, and making our own, a very few words about Jesus which nevertheless speak volumes: "who went about doing good" (Acts 10:38). By the exercise of great faith, as Relief Society members, and more particularly as visiting teachers, we can actually aid the blind to see; we also can open the eyes of those who are spiritually dim-sighted; we can by faith still an actual tempest, and we also can calm the tempest in some troubled soul. One is no greater miracle than the other.

The acts of Jesus were acts of understanding and love. These we can perform. These are as much needed today as they ever were. We can "go about doing good."

"Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." Literature of the Latter-day Saints

Literature of the Gospel Restoration Elder Howard R. Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1948-49

Literature, in its broadest sense applies to all that is written. Thus we may speak of the literature of mathematics, of science, of philosophy, of commerce, of advertising, or of any other field of study or activity. In a more restrictive sense, however, the term literature means that body of writings characterized by artistry of expression, of creative skill in portraying life, impressing truth, as in poetry, drama, fiction, oratory, essays, or sermons. A synonymous term suggestive of this product of literary art is belle-lettres.

This course on "Literature of the Latter-day Saints" —a pioneering venture—obviously cannot be spread over the whole field; nor can it be held within the narrow one. What is planned is a series of studies that will deal with such literature of varied types as portrays truthfully the History, the character, the ideals of our people.

Whatever can be found that rings true to the highest and best in the epic rise of our Church may be presented for appreciation and uplift.
Naturally, in a two-year course, with eight lessons for each year, only the highlights of the alluring theme can be given attention. Yet from these selective lessons, carefully prepared by class leaders and members, should come a rich fruitage. Certainly these results from the work may be confidently expected:
First, help in clarifying the gospel as taught and lived by Latter-day Saints.
Second, an improved sense of selection, or skill to find true literature.
Third, new joy in discovery and enrichment from the best of our literature.
With a stream of materials, books and articles, pouring off the press, both within and without the Church, we need such guidance. Earnest, co-operative study will help to meet this basic need. Such training will save time and money and, better still, will give to those who take it a new and vitalized view of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
People live on through their earthly literature. Their hopes, ideals, achievements, written with artistry, continue to vibrate so long as the record endures and is read with understanding, with appreciation. Through the radiant influence of good books mankind may keep rising to higher levels, may gain guidance to follow ever the path of righteousness.
Think here of the scriptures. Have not the "chosen people" continued to live because of the "Old Testament"? What would we know of the creation, the patriarchs and the prophets—the epic story of the children of Israel—had this "Book of Books" not been created and preserved?
How much likewise would be known of our Savior had not Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John written the precious gospels? Or what would be known of the rise of the early Christian Church if Luke had not made vibrant record of it through "The Acts of the Apostles"; had not Paul and the other stalwarts who carried forward the divine work of the Master not written their epistles, and John not bequeathed to the world "The Revelation"? Truly our indebtedness to these holy men who through inspiration and devotion gave us these sacred scriptures is great and lasting.
Latter-day Saints have added reason for gratitude. Through sacrificial efforts of other men of God our people have an enriched heritage of sacred literature. Our Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price add treasures of scriptural knowledge and dramatic stories to help vitalize the gospel, to give it greater clarity, and to teach people how more surely to live it. These volumes, together with the Bible, make the basic, the standard literature of our religion.
Dependable history of our Church and of its leaders and its members—constitutes another body of literature—ever being enriched and expanding as the great work progresses. LESSON DEPARTMENT Significant incidents from this developing epic, events of dramatic cast and revealing import, truthfully, inspiringly written, help bring out the inner meaning of the gospel in action. Stories of the men and women who have lived it help to humanize the messages of the Savior as applied to today. Words of truth and light from leaders and others who feel and know the gospel, help to interpret and impress it. Out of all this wealth of materials, too, may come songs and lyrics that live—stories and drama of stirring true-to-life cast, orations and sermons that impress truth. Our part is to discover these gems of expression, these life-giving thoughts, these dramatic events, and to appreciate them. To that end this series of what we hope may be practical and inspirational lessons is planned. For the first year the work will be on what may be called "Literature of the Gospel Restoration." A brief outline suggestive of the study centers of this part of the course follows:
1. Literature of the Beginnings Background study of family and boyhood of Joseph Smith in source writings—and study from literary viewpoint of Joseph's own story of the restoration.
2. Highlights of the Book of Mormon Epic Study of some of the dramatic events portrayed in this new "Book of Books"—this from the standpoint of effective storytelling.
3. Gospel Messages from the Book of Mormon Study of distinctive contributions of religious import and of literary value in the Book of Mormon.
4. Words of Light and Truth From the Prophet Study of choice selections from the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
5. Earlier Evangelistic Literature Study of selected excerpts from diaries, autobiographies, and other writings by loyal ones who helped in establishing the Church through testing years.
6. Lyric Expression of the Restoration Study of gospel songs and other poetic expression vibrant with the message of the new dispensation.
7. Literary Sidelights of the Founding Years Study of selections from this expository literature written to clarify and impress basic principles of the restored gospel in action.
8. Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years Study of distinctive and dependable literature portraying soul-testing, dramatic incidents that mark the rise of the Church under the inspired leadership of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
This spread of inviting work may we again impress represents a pioneering venture into a rich realm. It is entered into humbly with one thought, that of doing good. Our hope is not to cover the wide field with adequacy; rather do we trust that it may be opened alluringly, that new interest will be wakened, enjoyment and enrichment come to those who pioneer with us.
Further, this first year's work on "Literature of the Gospel Restoration" should lay a good foundation for the second year's course which is to be centered round the general theme, "Literature of the Expanding Pioneer Period."

Lesson 1—Literature of the Beginnings Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, October 19, 1948
O P letters often give living glimpses of the past. Thoughts, feelings, home news, comments on passing events, informally written to friends and loved ones, are revealing of the character of the writer as well as of the days in which he or she lived. Sometimes such letters, in parts, rise to literary excellence; always they are source material of more or less help to historians and authors.
Fortunately for our present purpose, two such old letters have been preserved since the days when Washington was President of our country. They both were written by a stalwart American, Asael Smith, paternal grandfather of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and great-great-grandfather of George Albert Smith, now President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
This grandsire, born in 1744, twelve years after the "Father of our Country" came into the world, had lived through the stirring years of the French and Indian War, the Revolutionary War, in which he took part as a soldier of the American army, and on through the founding of our Nation to the year 1830, when our Church was organized.
The first of these letters, written to a friend, Jacob Town, reveals Asael Smith as one of the solid New England type, God-fearing, patriotic, of loyal friendship, with independent spirit, and a sense of humor.

After acknowledging with appreciation a letter from his friend, telling with gratitude of the well-being of his family, and giving word of the building of a new home, Asael writes of a "noisy" political party just defeated in its hopes to seize power. Then he comments: For my part, I am so willing to trust the government of the world in the hands of the Supreme Ruler of Universal Nature, that I do not, at present, wish to try to wrest it out of His hands.... He has conducted us through a glorious Revolution and has brought us into the promised land of peace and liberty; and I believe that He is about to bring all the world in the same beatitude in His own time and way. Then comes this touch of pleasantry: Give my best regards to your parents and tell them I have taken up with the eleventh commandment, that the negro taught to the minister, which was thus: The minister asked the negro how many commandments there were and his answer was "eleven, sir." "Aye," replied the other. "What is the eleventh? That is one I have never heard of." "The eleventh commandment, sir, is mind your own business." So I choose to do. Write to me as often and as large as you can and oblige your friend and well-wisher. (signed) Asael Smith

The second letter, written for his family, and to be read after his death, contains such gems of religious thought as the following: The soul is immortal; you have to deal with an infinite Majesty. Do all to God in a serious manner; when you think of Him, speak of Him, pray of Him, or in any way make your addresses to His great Majesty, be in good carest. Trifle not with His name nor with His attributes, nor call Him to witness to anything but is absolute truth. If you find that you stand in need of a Savior, Christ saith: "Look unto me."

Other gems of practical wisdom are in these lines from the letter: Above everything avoid a melancholy disposition, that is a humor that admits of any temptation and is capable of any impression and distemper. Any honest calling will honor you, if you honor that. Persevere in the way of well-doing and you may hope for success.

The letter closes with this paragraph: And all, and myself... And wish to leave to you everything I have in this world but oblivion; but leaving my virtues, if ever I had any, to revive and live in you (B.H., Comprehensive History of the Church, I, pp. 7, 8, 9, 10, 12). Surely the virtues of this grandsire have lived on in his posterity and have been amplified for the everlasting good of mankind.

Another type of literature represented by the History of Joseph Smith, by His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, brings us close to the Prophet's boyhood, and gives the story of his visions and soul-testing struggles through the earlier years of the restoration. All this is portrayed in its relation to loyal family life which characterized the Smith home. It is a story out of a loving, heroic mother heart.

In straightforward narrative, with 483 richness of incidents such as women more than men treasure, the life of her son Joseph is portrayed. Naturally the background of ancestry, of the struggles to make a livelihood in what was frontier Vermont and tugged western New York are given attention. One feels, too, the devout faith in God from the first through the pages of the little volume. At times, too, the narration attains qualities of story-telling art.

In chapter fifteen, for illustration, where heroic efforts are made with mother love and faith to save her son Joseph from a dangerous infection, the little drama is stirringly told. Doctors had decided the boy's leg must be amputated, but the mother insisted that one more trial be made to save it. This is the mother's story: The principal Surgeon... ordered cords to be brought to bind Joseph fast to a bedstead; but to this Joseph objected. The doctor, however, insisted that he must be confined, upon which Joseph said very decidedly, "No, doctor, I will not be bound, for I can bear the operation much better if I have my liberty!" "Then," said Dr. Stone, "will you drink some brandy?" "No," said Joseph, "not one drop!" "Will you take some wine?" rejoined the doctor. "You must take something, ation to which you must be subjected." " exclaimed Joseph, "I will not touch one particle of liquor, neither will I be tied down; but I will tell you what I will do—I will have my father sit on the bed and hold me in his arms, and then I will do whatever is necessary in order to have the bone taken out."

Looking at me, he said, "Mother, I want you to leave the room, for I know you cannot bear to see me suffer so; father can stand it, but you have carried me so much, and watched over me so long, you are almost worn out." Then looking up into my face, his eyes swimming in tears, he continued, "Now Mother, promise me that you will not stay, will you! The Lord will help me, and I shall get through with it."

Another home drama of heart-touching quality is portrayed with like skill in chapter nineteen. Here the death of Alvin Smith, eldest brother of Joseph, is related. Again the tender mother love, the loyalty of the family, more closely drawn together through the persecutions heaped on them for the sake of devotion to the truth, are revealed.

This faithful brother's counsel to all of them, and especially to his brother Joseph, is most impressive: "I am now going to die, the distress which I suffer, and the feelings that I have tell me my time is very short. I want you to be a good boy, and do everything that lies in your power to obtain the Record. Be faithful in receiving instruction, and in keeping every commandment that is given you. Your brother Alvin must leave you; but remember the example which he has set for you; and set the same example for the children that are younger than yourself, and always be kind to father and mother."

How faithfully this beloved brother's counsel was followed is impressively revealed in the life story of the Prophet Joseph. Happily we have that story in his own straightforward words. With distinctive clarity of style and convincing detail—for all whose hearts and minds are open to accept spiritual truth—the autobiographical sketch is written. Yet, whether accepted or not accepted, it has the qualities of a classic—it will be read and re-read down the ages.

What gives to this life-story such classic qualities? Its central message that God lives.

This the boy expressed with simple, trenchant words: I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me.... I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation.: Here is a courageous statement that will ever stand high in religious literature of the world. It is a burning testimony of truth out of the soul of a youth who had been given a divine work to do. With his characteristic straightforward style, Joseph Smith relates the rest of the story of the gospel restoration as he lived it. It is a simple, direct, natural unfolding of a stirring sequence of events. From a literary viewpoint, like other effective narration, it moves forward with clarity of sentences and orderly paragraphs. Such writings may be compared to a chain made up of "story links." Observe, for illustration, this construction of "Joseph Smith's Own Story." After a brief paragraph on his birth in old Vermont, and of the new home in western New York, this chain of events is given: Religious Conflict; A Boy's Problem; Biblical Wisdom; First Prayer; Divine Answer; Derision and Ostracism; Heroic Testimony of the Truth; Lonely, Wayward Years; "An Angel from on High"; A Precious Record Revealed; Further Test and Training; Treasures Delivered; Struggles Against Evil-minded Men; Record with God's Help Translated; Publishing of Sacred Scripture; Organization of Church. Apart from the divine import of this stirring epic which has taken its everlasting place in religious literature, there are basic characteristics that give it classic quality. First, it rings of sincerity; second, it has clarity and the charm of simple directness; third, it is portrayed with details that add vividness and— for those of open, spiritual mind and heart—truth. Great literature is lived before it is written. 'This means that what it portrays must be intrinsically a throbbing part of the author who brings it forth. Certainly Joseph Smith lived in reality the story of the gospel restoration. He lived the inner spirit and divine meaning of the Book of Mormon, and other great literature which, under inspiration of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, he gave to the hungering world. Ours is a precious privilege to come, through these books and the other literature bequeathed to us by this Prophet of these latter days, into close and uplifting relationship with his inspired and continuing life.

Studies and Activities Note: This lesson on Literature of the Beginnings—it should be kept clearly in mind by teachers and class members—is not to be made merely a study of history, though historical matters naturally will play a part in the study. The central purpose of the lesson and of all the other lessons of the course will be best served by giving major attention to the literary aspect of what is studied.

First, in dealing with old letters—it may be well to have the second letter of Asael Smith read for the helpful messages it carries—and a brief discussion of what well-written letters may mean in the preserving of the past—and in their help for history and writers of literature. Second, it will be well also to have some member of the class read aloud the story told in chapter fifteen (History of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith), of the Saving of the Boy Joseph—as an example of story-telling art. What qualities make it an effective story? Third, it is urged that the missionary pamphlet, Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story, be obtained by the teacher and the members of the class, so far as this is practicable. With it in hand, the study of the story, not alone for the message it contains—but also—and with emphasis—for appreciation of its literary qualities, can be more interestingly made.

Fourth, teachers and class members naturally will be impelled to search out other— firsthand literature which helps bring out vividly the days of the beginning when Joseph Smith as a youth received his divine message from the Father and the Son—and the visitations of the Angel Moroni. Whatever is appropriate to help enrich and vitalize this study should of course be contributed—but with this caution: Do not permit the lesson to go too far afield. Keep it true to its central purpose—make it a study of literature that truly portrays the story, the ideals, the fundamental principles of the gospel.

References Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 1. Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1. History of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith, Edited by Preston Nibley, 1945, Stevens and Wallis, Inc. Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story—A Missionary Pamphlet.

Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith: 2. 

Work Tleeting—Sewing Value of Acquiring Make-over Skills; Make-over Possibilities (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Jean Ridges Jennings Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 AKING over old and outmoded clothing into new and useful articles is a stimulating and challenging experience. For women in families with a limited income this ability to make full use of every piece of clothing can be as helpful to the family budget as actually earning extra money. As a general rule an article of clothing is not made over into something else until it is no longer useful in its original form. One must learn to decide whether or not the article is more valuable as it is or as it may be converted. Make-overs cover an almost unlimited field, but in most cases their use is employed when a garment is to be worn by another person. This is not always the case, however, since one can re-use her own clothes by ingenious planning. A coat may be made over into a suit, dress, skirt, or even a different style of coat for a woman. It may also be made over into any of these same items for a young gitl or a child. In the latter case one must be careful that the fabric and color are suited to the individual for whom the garment is being made.

In order to provide an opportunity for the sisters of the wards to view the year's accomplishments in the sewing program, no lesson is provided for the month of May. Space does not permit a listing of all the make-over possibilities for a family, but the ensuing lessons will include more details for their use in home sewing.

The titles of the lessons for 1948-49 are as follows:

Lesson 1. Suggestions on Changing Skirt Lengths

Lesson 2. Remodeling Dresses An afternoon dress can be made over into a more up-to-date style for a new garment. Skirts and blouses can also frequently be fashioned from dresses that can no longer serve as they are.

Lesson 3. Making Women's Wear from Men's Wear A man's suit, coat, or raincoat can be made over into garments for a woman or for one of the children if the color and material are suitable.

Lesson 4. Salvage from Shirts Men's shirts can be made over into boys' shirts; into girls' blouses; into aprons and children's play clothes; or even into women's blouses. Here again one must be careful to be sure that colors and fabric designs are appropriate to the wearer.

Lesson 5. Outmoded Formals Old formals may be re-used for negligees, underwear, blouses, or afternoon dresses, depending on the type of fabric in the original garment. They can even be used for clever touches in making bedroom furnishings.
Lesson 6. Blouses and Slips Slips, negligees, and nightgowns may be pressed into service for making blouses, vests, underclothing, or a variety of dainty articles for wee tots. House dresses, if not too badly worn or faded, can be used for aprons or children's play clothes.

Lesson 7. Using Your Odds and Ends Old shower curtains can be used for dish covers for the ice box, mixing bowl covers, small rain capes, or cases for linens to keep out dust and moths when storing them.

Lesson 8 Suggestions on Changing Skirt Lengths Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, October 12, 1948 ALMOST every woman or child sooner or later comes up against the problem of altering or lengthening skirts. At the present time when styles are undergoing a radical change and skirts are all longer than a year or two ago, most of us are faced with the necessity of finding ways to extend our skirts. Not many women can afford to discard clothes just because they are not in the height of fashion. But much can be done to modernize clothes and give them the so-called "new look."

There are many ways to make your skirts longer. Of first importance, though, is to choose the most suitable way for your particular need. Your plaid wool sports skirt would look foolish with an eyelet pantie ruffle added to its tailored lines. Or if you are as wide now as you care to be, you certainly won't set a series of contrasting bands in your skirt. So choose your lengthening strategy with care for both fabric and figure.

For a teen-ager who would wear her school skirt a few more months if it were a little longer, try crocheting a wool band at the bottom. If the skirt is cotton, spun rayon or linen, the band should be done in the mercerized crochet cotton. When you add length to a dress in crochet, you should add a touch of the same trimming around the neck or sleeves. In this way the crocheting will seem to be a planned decoration for the outfit, not merely a makeshift.

When crocheting or knitting is used as a strip it must always be pressed or blocked into shape to give it a finished look. There are skirts for which an eyelet embroidered ruffle is a perfect and eye-catching finish, particularly full "dirndles," or full gored types. This year when petticoats are so right, you will find this method of lengthening lifts last year's skirt to the height of this year's style. The ruffle can either be on a petticoat or attached to the skirt itself.

'Tack the eyelet ruffle to the skirt by hand. A folded bias band of plaid taffeta would be a perfect lengthener for a plain dark crepe dress. Unify the costume by carrying the same trimming as bands for the neck and sleeves. Another trick is a series of bands inserted in a skirt. Two or three bands may be used. Bands of graduated widths are more interesting than bands of the same width.

If your dress is short in the waist, you can insert a new waistband of a contrasting material. A dress which has a peplum can be lengthened by inserting a piece of material under the peplum where the piecing will not show. A skirt which has a hem can be faced. This is the simplest of all ways to add length. If the skirt has already been faced, you can still make the skirt longer by adding a band of self-matched or contrasting material to the underside of the facing.

When finished, it makes the original hemline appear to be a wide tuck taken just above the hemline for decoration. The band should be doubled or faced and can be stitched to the facing of the original hem. Do not stitch the band to the skirt itself.

No matter what material or method you choose for lengthening your clothes, be certain to select a material and a style of trimming suitable to the outfit.

SWOULD SCIENCE Latter-day Saint Political Thought Elder G. Homer Durham Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 THROUGHOUT the world a struggle is taking place for men's minds, to influence their political beliefs as a stepping stone to new and uncharted forms of government. Questions of political theory are the questions of the hour.

"Latter-day Saint Political Thought" has therefore been selected as social science lesson material for the next two years. Seven lessons during 1948-49 will be devoted to certain main currents. The second year will offer a detailed analysis of the Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General (Doctrine and Covenants, section 134), its application, and general world significance.

The objective of these lessons is to acquaint and familiarize the women of the Church with some fundamental issues of modern political thought, and to examine pertinent answers thereto as found in the literature and doctrines of the restoration; and thus aid them in teaching their children the meaning and value of free agency and liberty. Men everywhere search for adequate answers to these questions.

Currently, Communism threatens to engulf Christian civilization. What contribution does Latter-day Saint thought make to modern man's search for sound political theory? In this quest, class leaders and members will have occasion and stimulus to re-examine modern scripture as well as the relevant material in the entire stream of literature of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

In addition to the standard works, the following useful references are suggested:

Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of Man, Deseret Book Co., 1936, an entire book dedicated to the interpretation of political history in the light of gospel principles. It is one of the few systematic treatises of this type found in our literature.

Wright, John A: Man and the Dragon, Bookcraft, 1945, especially part 1, is another recent work dealing with war, peace, social and economic issues.