The Women of the Mormon Battalion President Amy Brown Lyman The Mormon Battalion was composed of five companies of one hundred men each, all volunteers for their country's service. They were recruited in and about Council Bluffs, and on July 20, 1846, they took up their line of march to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, headquarters for the army of the West, two hundred miles from Council Bluffs. The order from the Government had stated that each company would be allowed four women as laundresses, who would travel with the company receiving rations and other allowances given to laundresses of the regular army. These five companies were therefore entitled to twenty laundresses, and since this provision offered an opportunity for some of the enlisted men to take their wives, the quota was readily raised. With the consent of Captain James Allen, who was in command of the Battalion, a dozen other women were allowed to go. Some of the officers and men who had small families, and who were considered well enough equipped, were permitted to take their families along, and a few took advantage of this opportunity. Then there was a group of seven boys who volunteered to go as servants to some of the officers. Too young to go as soldiers, but brave and patriotic lads, they were willing to go in this capacity. Page 436 When the roster was finally completed, it contained, in addition to the five hundred enlisted men, thirty-two women, thirty-one children, some of whom were half-grown, and the seven boy servants, making a total of 570 in all, who set out on this perilous expedition, for perilous it proved to be. At Fort Leavenworth the Battalion was fully organized and armed. Here it received its equipment, camp accouterments, arms, and provisions, and on August 12, there began the matchless march of two thousand miles from Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, via Santa Fe, New Mexico, to San Diego, California. For men and women alike, the departure of the Battalion was a most trying, yes, tragic experience. Mothers grieved over the taking away of their young sons; and wives and husbands were in the deepest distress at the prospect of that long separation and the uncertainties of the final outcome. An indication of the feelings of many of the men who left their families behind is given by Sergeant William Hyde, who wrote in his journal: The thoughts of leaving my family at this critical time are indescribable. They were far from the land of their nativity, situated upon a lonely prairie with no dwelling but a wagon, the scorching sun beating upon them, with the prospect of the cold winds of December finding them in the same bleak and dreary place. THE WOMEN OF THE MORMON BATTALION It would be difficult to decide which had to endure the greater distress, the wives and mothers, who with their children, were left behind to face that hard and dreadful year when there was so much sickness, poor food, and scarcities of clothing, or those who had dared to brave the terrors of travel in those early days. Of those who remained behind, some were cared for by the Church, some by relatives, while others struggled along making their own way. They were all called upon to endure many trials and hardships during that long and lonely year, but they were brave and courageous, and through their faith, they met them heroically. The husbands sent letters home and also allowances from their army pay whenever there was opportunity to do so, which was not often. Of the rest of their pay, they saved all that they were able, to bring back with them. While a few of these families came on to the Valley and were here reunited with their husbands and fathers, most of them remained in and about Council Bluffs, where their reunion took place. THE women who accompanied the Battalion, in addition to doing the laundry work, made themselves useful in many other ways. They sewed, mended, darned, and helped with the meals. They comforted those who were discouraged and homesick, and helped to nurse the sick. As time went on there was so much sickness and so many accidents, that nursing for these women really assumed great and important proportions. Due to poor food, scarcity of water, and impure and stagnant water, many became 437 ill with stomach and bowel trouble, while others became afflicted with chills and fever (malaria). The chief treatment of the company doctor was the giving of large doses of calomel and arsenic, and as a result, many became badly salivated. Among other discouraging features of the journey were heavy rain, thunder, and wind storms. At one point there was a terrible hurricane, accompanied by rain, which blew down all but five or six of the one hundred tents, upset a number of wagons, and drenched all their belongings. Alternating with these storms were terrible heat waves, when the temperature would often go up to 101° in the shade and 135° in the sun. The uncharted route of travel was rough and uncertain. It led over rough trails, roads, and embankments, through hot, deep beds of sand, and miry clay. The crossing of creeks and larger streams was most difficult. In some instances the wagons had to be let down the steep banks on one side of a stream with ropes, and pulled out by men and horses on the other. After five weeks of slow and interrupted travel with all its handicaps, it was deemed advisable on September 16, 1846, to detach a number of the families and send them up the Arkansas River to Fort Pueblo for the winter under a guard of ten men, with Captain Higgins in charge. This done, the main body of the command continued on to the Southwest. One month later, in October, they reached Santa Fe, the Government fort located halfway between Fort Leavenworth and San Diego. It was now found that a large number of men were too ill to continue the march. Lieutenant 438 Colonel Cook, the commanding officer at this time, therefore decided to send back to Pueblo for the win.

Ter these sick men, eighty-six in number, together with all the laundresses and the remaining wives and children of members of the Battalion, except the wives of five officers who were to be personally responsible for them. He was now convinced that the sick men and the women and children would not be able to endure the exposure and fatigue of the rest of the western journey over the mountains. Captain James Brown was placed in charge of the contingent, and one month later they arrived at their destination and established themselves near the camp of Captain Higgins. They were to build themselves cabins and the Government was to supply their food. A month later fifty-five more men were invalided and sent to join them, making a total of 141 sick soldiers.

THE care of the sick was the chief occupation of the women of Pueblo that winter, for in addition to the invalided soldiers, five babies were born in the little colony, and all alike were tenderly cared for. These women proved to be angels of mercy to all who needed their help, and the men who were ill ever after remembered with gratitude and affection the attention, help, and sympathy given them.

One of the heroines of the Battalion expedition was Mary Black Brown, wife of Captain James Brown, who later became one of the leading pioneer women of Utah. Captain Brown, who was the founder of Ogden, was greatly aided in the development of that community by his thrifty and resourceful wife. Mary was a Southern girl, born and reared in luxury on a great plantation in the South, where all the labor was performed by the family's slaves. After her marriage, she, with her husband, George Black, joined the Church much against the wishes of her parents, and after a few years, she gave up family, friends, and landed property, and with her husband, joined the saints at Nauvoo.

Left a young widow in Nauvoo, she moved with the saints to Council Bluffs where, on July 16, 1846, she married Captain Brown, and four days later, with her new husband and young son, David Black, she left with the Mormon Battalion as one of the laundresses of her husband's company. Mrs. Hattie Jenson, granddaughter of Mrs. Brown, in writing of her grandmother's experiences, says: "Grandmother endured all the hardships incident to that long march and washed for sixteen men and did many other hard tasks she had never done before. She suffered with the heat and thirst, was on soldiers' rations, and became footsore and weary. And at Pueblo where the invalided men were sent under the command of her husband, Captain Brown, she was a ministering angel to them."

In the spring, the soldiers, with the company of Mississippi saints, took up their line of march to Utah, arriving in the Valley on July 29, 1847, five days after Brigham Young and the pioneers arrived. They lived in the fort which was soon constructed, where Pioneer Park now is, and here, three months after their arrival in Salt Lake, Mary gave birth to a daughter. This was the third white child born in Utah, and the first white child to live in what is now Ogden City, where the family moved in February 1848.

SARAH Brown Lowry, of another Brown family, in her thirteenth year traveled with the Mormon Battalion. Her father, James P. Brown, joined the army at Council Bluffs, and after reaching Fort Leavenworth and finding that he could take his family with him, sent for his wife, their daughter, and two sons, to follow him at once, which they were most happy to do. This family was well equipped with two good wagons, two yoke of young oxen for each wagon, three cows, and a tent. The boys drove the teams, and Sarah drove the cows, walking all the way.

When the Battalion left Fort Leavenworth, the Brown wagons were placed in the very rear so that Sarah could be near the family, for she still walked and drove the cows, which finally became a monotonous task. In her later years, she often remarked that the Battalion followed the flag and she followed the dust.

This Brown family was among the first contingent detached from the army on the Arkansas River and sent to Pueblo for the winter. How lonely for Sarah was the prospect of this new assignment! There had been the hum of many voices, the tramp of many feet, the morning sound of fife and drum, calling all from slumber, often when the stars were still shining and there was a long drive to the next water. And there had been the sense of security in numbers.

To all of this the rosy-cheeked girl, matured beyond her years, had become accustomed, and now all would be different. On the way they encountered a large Arapaho Indian village and naturally were very much concerned, and even frightened. However, when the village was reached, the chief treated them kindly and made it known that he would show them a good place to camp.

Sarah was sitting by her mother at the moment, and as the chief passed by, he invited her, in sign language, to ride with him on his horse. The invitation was, of course, promptly but kindly refused. A guard was set out for that night and Sarah said she was sure there was more praying than sleeping done during the night.

At this place, a most distressing accident occurred. One of the men, Norman Sharp, was accidentally shot with his own gun while drawing it out of the wagon. The chief insisted that Brother Sharp remain with them, as he was sure they could cure him. He could then go on later. Fearing that some harm would come to this handful of people if he refused, Brother Sharp himself decided to remain. So, with his wife and her sister and one of the men, he went back to the village.

Not many days elapsed before Sister Sharp and her two companions returned to the company with the sad news that Brother Sharp had died and was buried by the wayside. A few months later, Sister Sharp gave birth to a baby girl.

SARAH Brown reports that when they reached Pueblo, the company was greatly surprised, but much overjoyed to find wintering there, that brave company of Mississippi saints, who were on their way to the mountains. She says these saints had built log houses in a row fairly close together, and with their consent, the Battalion men constructed theirs in the spaces between, which required the building of only two sides and a roof to each. With the completion of these shelters, the men left their families and, following a mountain trail, proceeded on to report at Santa Fe.

The next time Sarah saw her father was in late November, when he was brought back to them ill from Santa Fe, with the detachment of invalided soldiers and the remaining families and laundresses under command of Captain James Brown.

All this winter, she relates, there was much to do in the camp nursing the sick and discouraged men, who were disappointed at not being able to continue on to their proposed journey's end at San Diego. In May 1847, Sarah reports they were all overjoyed when Captain Brown and his aides, who had journeyed to Santa Fe to collect the soldiers' pay, returned with the money and with orders that they were all to march under his leadership to California, by way of Fort Laramie, Wyoming, where the men would be mustered out of service. Their journey began. There was one day's delay, however, for the Browns when Sarah's mother gave birth to a son on the way. The contingent reached Fort Laramie safely and then came on to Salt Lake Valley, arriving on July 29, and here they were permitted to be mustered out of service, as their year of enlistment had already expired.

The parents of Sarah Brown Lowry were called to Sanpete in 1849, and experienced the terrible incidents connected with the Indian wars in that valley. They settled in Manti, and here at the age of seventeen, Sarah was married to John Lowry, and became the mother of nine noble sons and daughters, among them Mrs. Samuel H. Allen, to whom we are indebted for the privilege of reading her mother's life story.

Always a devoted Church worker, Sister Lowry finally became one of the prominent pioneer temple workers of the Church, serving for many years in a supervisory capacity in the Manti Temple.

Much has been said and written of the heroic march and the deeds of the men of the Mormon Battalion, and it is a source of pleasure and pride for the writer to record these words concerning the patience, forbearance, and the heroic deeds of the women of the Battalion.

SUMMER MOON

Elaine Swain

Tumultuous sounds of summer morning cease:
A single thread of smoke
Curls slowly toward immobile clouds
As shadows of the early sun decrease;
Rust-colored cattle browse
Among chartreuse and emerald hills.
These—and a boy, brook-bound—speak of peace.