Title: Principles and Laws Governing Good Singing
Author: Florence J. Madsen
Page: 470
Section: SPECIAL FEATURES

Principles and Laws Governing Good Singing Florence J. Madsen
Member, Relief Society General Board

How wonderful is the human voice! It is indeed the organ of the soul. The intellect of man sits enthroned, visibly, on his forehead and in his eye, and the heart of man is written on his countenance, but the soul reveals itself in the voice only—Longfellow

This is but one of the many recorded statements that have been made by poets, philosophers, and musicians during past centuries on the wonders of the human voice. This high estimate of the voice is just as much a reality today as it was then. This is a golden age of musical possibilities. Most schools and churches regard vocal study and performance as indispensable to the perpetuation and advancement of educational ideals and moral growth. Our Church has always encouraged and stressed the development of musical talents.

Courses have been adopted, singing groups have been organized, and teachers and leaders have been appointed to advance musical culture commensurate with Church ideals and interests. This has led to specialized activity in the art of singing. Vocal art includes several very important factors which, in turn, are made up of many fundamental details. In order to effect further advancement in our singing organizations it becomes necessary to study and emphasize these. Since tone quality is the basic element of beautiful singing, this detail should be given first consideration. The vowel is the source of tone. If it is perfect the tone will be likewise. This fact makes it fundamentally necessary to study the vowel, how to speak and sing it properly. Vowels must be sung without restraint or interference of any kind. To do this the following rules should be observed while singing: a. Open the mouth almost to a yawn position. B. Originate all vowels in the same place, the back of the mouth—the pharynx. C. Sustain all vowels from beginning to end with the same volume unless otherwise indicated. D. Sing the vowels in the easy range of the voice with "M" as the prefix and sustain each one eight counts, four gradually louder (crescendo); four gradually softer (decrescendo or diminuendo). Sing in slow tempo. Then increase to sixteen counts and divide in the same proportion. Avoid all throat restriction and tension of tongue and jaw in all singing. E. To sing properly the chest and nbs must be kept high and expanded, while the abdominal muscles are lifted and contracted. This type of breathing should be practiced until it becomes a habit. This is also essential to good speaking.

[Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting.]

Page 470

Notes On the Authors of the Lessons
This year an author new to Relief Society members appears as a writer of one of the lesson series. Elder G. Homer Durham, author of the social science lessons, "Latter-day Saint Political Thought," is Director of the Institute of Government and head of the department of political science at the University of Utah. A son of George Henry Durham and Mary Ellen Marsden Durham, he was born in Parowan, and educated in the schools of Utah, receiving his B.A. degree from the University of Utah. He received his Ph.D. in political science at the University of California, Los Angeles, and served as a member of the faculties at California, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, and Utah State Agricultural College.

He has written many publications dealing with politics and government. He is author of Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, and the editor and compiler of Gospel Standards (Selections from the Writings and Discourses of President Heber J. Grant); The Gospel Kingdom (Selections from the writings and discourses of John Taylor); and The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff.

Elder Durham has long served the Church as an outstanding teacher and executive officer in various organizations, particularly in scouting, M.I.A., Sunday School, and Priesthood activities. A member of University Ward, Salt Lake City, he was appointed to membership in the Emigration Stake High Council in 1946.

Married to Eudora Widtsoe, daughter of Elder John A. Widtsoe and Leah Dunford Widtsoe, Elder Durham is the father of a son and Donalee.

Jean Ridges Jennings, author of the sewing lessons, "Value of Acquiring Makeover Skills; Makeover Possibilities," also prepared the sewing course outlines for last year.
She was born in Logan, Utah, the daughter of Dr. Alfred J. and Edna Hyde Ridges. Her maternal great-grandfather was President John Taylor and her paternal great-great-grandfather was the well-known and gifted pioneer, Joseph H. Ridges, builder of the original Tabernacle organ. Her maternal grandmother was Annie Taylor Hyde, first counselor to Bathsheba W. Smith in the general presidency of Relief Society. She was reared and educated in Salt Lake City and is a graduate of the University of Utah.

Mrs. Jennings, wife of Brenton W. Jennings, is the mother of a son and a daughter. She combines two interesting careers, homemaking and teaching at the University of Utah in the home economics department. Her hobbies are sewing and gardening.

For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see:
Elder Don B. Colton: Relief Society Magazine, page 489, July 1946.
Elder H. Wayne Driggs: Relief Society Magazine, page 469, July 1946.
Elder Howard R. Driggs: Relief Society Magazine, page 469, July 1946.
Elder T. Edgar Lyon: Relief Society Magazine, page 471, July 1946.

Page 471

Page 471
Lesson Department Theology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Elder Don B. Colton Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 This preview of the second year's course in the series entitled "The Life and Ministry of the Savior" introduces the eight lessons for 1948-49. The textbook to be followed again this year is Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage. Each of the first eight lessons of the series for 1947-48 covered two chapters of the text. This year only one chapter of the text will be treated in each lesson, as it is felt that each chapter provides sufficient material to occupy the full theology class period. Material for lesson enrichment will be found in the references at the end of each chapter. Class leaders are advised to guide the discussion in the theology classes so that extraneous or controversial subjects do not enter into it, and only outlined subject matter is considered. The main objective of the course is to give the women of the Church opportunity to study and discuss events in the life of the Savior and his teachings, thereby strengthening their faith and increasing their testimonies. For more than nineteen centuries righteous people have found consolation and hope in such study, and it is hoped that each course in this series will bring increased joy and understanding to Relief Society members.

The titles of the eight lessons for this year's course are the names of chapters 17 to 24, inclusive, of the textbook Jesus the Christ. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow:

Lesson 9. "The Sermon on the Mount" Objective: To create a deep appreciation of the Savior and his gospel by a study of the masterful "Sermon on the Mount."

Lesson 10. "As One Having Authority" Objective: To offer proof that Jesus the Lord possessed the fulness of divine power and authority.

Lesson 11. "He Spake Many Things Unto Them in Parables" Objective: To create a desire to study and understand the gospel of the kingdom.

Lesson 12. "Peace, Be Still" Objective: To strengthen faith in the Lord Jesus Christ through the recognition of his power over the forces of nature, men, and even demons.

Lesson 13. "The Apostolic Mission, and Events Related Thereto" Objective: To show how those who put their trust in the Lord gain spiritual power and knowledge.

Lesson 14. "A Period of Darkening Opposition" Objective: To acquaint class members with the events of the Savior's life during the time he was preparing the apostles for their final great responsibilities.

Lesson 15.

"The Transfiguration" Objective: To become acquainted with one of the outstanding events of the Savior's earthly ministry. Lesson 16. "From Sunshine to Shadow" Objective: To follow the Savior in his final preparation for the supreme sacrifice, and to show how he prepared his apostles for their great missions. Textbooks Talmage, James E.: Jesus the Christ, Deseret Book Company, $2.50. Lesson 9 THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 17 by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, October 5, 1948 Objective: To create a deep appreciation of the Savior and his gospel by a study of the masterful "Sermon on the Mount." Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. THIS great discourse was delivered by the Savior about the time of the calling and ordination of the Twelve, and portions of the address were delivered primarily to them. The sermon has been called the Constitution of Christianity. It does contain many of the fundamental principles. It is a masterpiece of literature. The word pictures are very impressive. Examples: ... A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid (Matt. 5:14). Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? (Matt. 7:16). Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask for bread, will he give him a stone? (Matt. 7:9). For nearly two thousand years, righteous people everywhere have found great consolation in what has come to be known as the "Beatitudes." The assurance that conditions hereafter will be better, has sustained and comforted the less fortunate in every nation. Clearly the blessings and happiness promised are not all to be realized in their fulness in this life. The Beatitudes are directed to the duties of mortal life as a preparation for a greater existence yet future." The question, "How can I be happy?" is uppermost in the minds of most people. What we are determines, largely, our happiness in life. The blessings enumerated by Jesus give us the key: It is being merciful, pure in heart, loving even our enemies; these and others he named as necessary to the "peace which passeth all understanding." It should always be noted that the teaching of the Savior was an invitation to approach his standard as nearly as possible and, with satisfaction, enjoy his message. His intercession for us, individually, is grounded upon merit and, therefore, justice must ultimately prevail. Firm faith in this, and in the final triumph of right, is very comforting. An interesting discussion of the difference between pleasure and happiness is found on page 247 of the text, Jesus the Christ. The Law Superseded by the Gospel - He had come, not to destroy the law, but to fulfill it and to establish that which the Prophets had foretold would come. The explanation of this as delivered to the Nephites is: And it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words he perceived that there I say unto you that the law is fulfilled that was given unto Moses. Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for do not destroy the prophets, for as many as have not been fulfilled in me, verily I have come to fulfill them. The gospel did not destroy the Mosaic law; it supplanted that law by a higher and more perfect one. The law provided specific penalties for an evil deed while the gospel forbade even the evil thoughts and passions which led to the bad deed. A good illustration is the sin against the moral laws. Jesus said this sin began with the lustful look and sometimes with evil thoughts. He struck at the very root of evil. We should avoid evil thinking. The thought is often father to the act, Is pronouncement against divorce was very strong. It may be well for class leaders to read at this point Matthew 19:4-9. God's law contemplates that man and wife shall not be divorced. That was the law in the beginning, although divorce has been permitted, or, as the Savior said, "suffered," at times for particular reasons. Retaliation had been permitted under the Mosaic law. "Thus an eye was demanded for the loss of an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a life for a life." It was the law in those days that if a Roman demanded that a Jew go with him a mile to carry a burden or for other purposes the Jew must so. Jesus urged that one should go the second mile. He probably did not mean that the apostles should be abjectly subservient work in the ministry more efficient. Let there be enhanced. It was an entirely new doctrine the Lord taught: Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you (Matt. 5:44). This would train them to be longsuffering and tolerant as our Father in heaven. He causes the rain to fall and the sun to shine on the just and the unjust. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect (Matt. 5:48). Sincerity of Purpose The Master enjoined upon his followers sincerity and denounced hypocrisy. He was emphatic as regards the giving of alms so that it might be seen of men. The saying of prayers to be heard of men was also severely condemned. Then followed the giving of a model prayer. The Lord's Prayer, as it is called, is so all inclusive and yet so easily understood and soul-inspiring that it should be memorized. (See Matthew 6:9-13.) For the first time permission was given to address Elohim as "Our Father." The common brotherhood of man and our relationship to Christ, our Elder Brother, are clearly declared. One stands in wonder and awe at the nearness to the infinite Deity. We get a glimpse of the reason for God's great love. Our Father! What meaningful words! Read, or sing, that marvelous hymn, "O My Father." (Read Jesus the Christ, pages 238-242.) Another new doctrine: For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you; but if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses (Matt. 6:14-15). Treasures of Earth and of Heaven It is comforting to many to read the Lord's estimate of true wealth. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE�JULY 1948 He especially contrasts enduring riches of eternity with the passing wealth of this world. A life well spent in doing good deeds is far more desirable than one spent in amassing and hoarding gold or silver. How oft we hear his statement, "For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Matt. 6:21). When he turned to a discussion of the inner self, the Master showed his keen discernment of the forces of life. "The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thy eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light" (Matt. 6:22).

Of course, he was speaking of the natural or mortal eye. It receives the light of the sun and gives light unto the body. Likewise, if the spiritual eye is undimmed by sin, one can see the pathway to God. Job said, "For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes" (Job 11:4). It is clear that if we are to know God we must serve him and keep his commandments. Especially with the apostles there was to be no middle pathway. Truly Jesus was the Master Teacher. How well he led his listeners from the known to the unknown! He talked of how well the Father cares even for the fowls of the air, that faith might be increased in the hearts of those who heard him. If God fed the birds, and arrayed the lilies of the field better than Solomon was arrayed, how much more would he watch over those whom he had called to be messengers of life and salvation.

Hypocrisy Further Condemned

The followers of Jesus are admonished not to judge others. "It is high time to leave judgment with the Lord. The world, our life eternal with God." Is Contained in Matthew 5:17-20 is in heaven will enter into the kingdom of heaven, hearing and doing.

Jesus knew that some who listened to him delivered his great address and forget it all on earth ever taught us as did Jesus. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion

1. Read the Beatitudes, in them,
2. State some of the instructions which Jesus gave to his chosen Twelve,
3. What contrasts are there between the Gospel of Christ?
4. Repeat the golden rule. Show how faith and love are necessary to live it,

PEACEMAKERS

The days of the Savior. Key to it is far better than securing peace of mind.

Appiness by Securing Peace of Mind 478 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948

Assisting Searchers' Messages—Our Savior Speaks Elder H. Wayne Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 THE Visiting Teachers' Messages for 1948-49 will tie in with our theology lessons: "The Life and Ministry of the Savior." The messages will be admonitions and other significant statements of Christ which are timely today. As far as possible, the messages will be suited to the particular month in which they are to be presented. The main title of the series will be: "Our Savior Speaks."

The subtitles for the various months will be as follows:

Lesson 1. "Ye shall do the works which ye see me do." Objective: To present these words in the homes visited as "'the grand key words of the Society" and to point out that the objective of Relief Society has never changed.

Lesson 2. "Where are the nine?" (Luke 17:17) Objective: To warn against the sin of ingratitude.

Lesson 3. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40). Objective: To reaffirm what constitutes the true spirit of giving.

Lesson 4. "In the world ye shall have tribulation but be of good cheer" (John 16:33). Objective: To give encouragement to face the coming year courageously.

Lesson 5. "Judge not that ye be not judged" (Matt. 7:1).. Objective: To point out that it is not our place to pass judgment on another.

Lesson 6. "Ye cannot serve God and Mammon" (Matt. 6:24). Objective: To emphasize that the allurements of the world do not provide lasting happiness.

Lesson 7. "I will not leave you comfortless" (John 14:18). Objective: To point out that we are not left comfortless because of our sure knowledge, through Christ's teachings and the Holy Ghost, of the resurrection.

Lesson 8. "Ye are the light of the world" (Matt. 5:14). Objective: To emphasize that where much is given much is expected.

Lesson 9. "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, October 5, 1948

Objective: To present these words in the homes visited as the "grand key words" of Relief Society and to point out that the objective has never changed.

The Savior in his earthly ministry ever strove to link the spiritual with the temporal. He taught that life on earth had its counterpart in heaven, that, in fact, a "heaven on earth" was the nearest example we could have of the joys in the perfect life beyond. It was through this teaching that he impressed his followers with the need of belief on him and the works that he did. At the ninth meeting of Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' These are the grand key words for the Society to act upon." From that day, in 1842, to the present time, those grand key words have served to guide the society along its path and motivate Relief Society members to perform the work done by the Master.

When we think of the work done by the Savior, we are apt to remember his miracles, but it is significant that our works need not of necessity be these epic-making events. The blind need not be restored to sight, the deaf to hear, nor even the dead to walk again. How then may we do the works which he did? The answer is to be found in reading, and making our own, a very few words about Jesus which nevertheless speak volumes: "who went about doing good" (Acts 10:38). By the exercise of great faith, as Relief Society members, and more particularly as visiting teachers, we can actually aid the blind to see; we also can open the eyes of those who are spiritually dim-sighted; we can by faith still an actual tempest, and we also can calm the tempest in some troubled soul. One is no greater miracle than the other.

The acts of Jesus were acts of understanding and love. These we can perform. These are as much needed today as they ever were. We can "go about doing good."

"Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." Literature of the Latter-day Saints

Literature of the Gospel Restoration Elder Howard R. Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1948-49

Literature, in its broadest sense applies to all that is written. Thus we may speak of the literature of mathematics, of science, of philosophy, of commerce, of advertising, or of any other field of study or activity. In a more restrictive sense, however, the term literature means that body of writings characterized by artistry of expression, of creative skill in portraying life, impressing truth, as in poetry, drama, fiction, oratory, essays, or sermons. A synonymous term suggestive of this product of literary art is belle-lettres.

This course on "Literature of the Latter-day Saints" —a pioneering venture—obviously cannot be spread over the whole field; nor can it be held within the narrow one. What is planned is a series of studies that will deal with such literature of varied types as portrays truthfully the History, the character, the ideals of our people.

Whatever can be found that rings true to the highest and best in the epic rise of our Church may be presented for appreciation and uplift.
Naturally, in a two-year course, with eight lessons for each year, only the highlights of the alluring theme can be given attention. Yet from these selective lessons, carefully prepared by class leaders and members, should come a rich fruitage. Certainly these results from the work may be confidently expected:
First, help in clarifying the gospel as taught and lived by Latter-day Saints.
Second, an improved sense of selection, or skill to find true literature.
Third, new joy in discovery and enrichment from the best of our literature.
With a stream of materials, books and articles, pouring off the press, both within and without the Church, we need such guidance. Earnest, co-operative study will help to meet this basic need. Such training will save time and money and, better still, will give to those who take it a new and vitalized view of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
People live on through their earthly literature. Their hopes, ideals, achievements, written with artistry, continue to vibrate so long as the record endures and is read with understanding, with appreciation. Through the radiant influence of good books mankind may keep rising to higher levels, may gain guidance to follow ever the path of righteousness.
Think here of the scriptures. Have not the "chosen people" continued to live because of the "Old Testament"? What would we know of the creation, the patriarchs and the prophets—the epic story of the children of Israel—had this "Book of Books" not been created and preserved?
How much likewise would be known of our Savior had not Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John written the precious gospels? Or what would be known of the rise of the early Christian Church if Luke had not made vibrant record of it through "The Acts of the Apostles"; had not Paul and the other stalwarts who carried forward the divine work of the Master not written their epistles, and John not bequeathed to the world "The Revelation"? Truly our indebtedness to these holy men who through inspiration and devotion gave us these sacred scriptures is great and lasting.
Latter-day Saints have added reason for gratitude. Through sacrificial efforts of other men of God our people have an enriched heritage of sacred literature. Our Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price add treasures of scriptural knowledge and dramatic stories to help vitalize the gospel, to give it greater clarity, and to teach people how more surely to live it. These volumes, together with the Bible, make the basic, the standard literature of our religion.
Dependable history of our Church and of its leaders and its members—constitutes another body of literature—ever being enriched and expanding as the great work progresses. LESSON DEPARTMENT Significant incidents from this developing epic, events of dramatic cast and revealing import, truthfully, inspiringly written, help bring out the inner meaning of the gospel in action. Stories of the men and women who have lived it help to humanize the messages of the Savior as applied to today. Words of truth and light from leaders and others who feel and know the gospel, help to interpret and impress it. Out of all this wealth of materials, too, may come songs and lyrics that live—stories and drama of stirring true-to-life cast, orations and sermons that impress truth. Our part is to discover these gems of expression, these life-giving thoughts, these dramatic events, and to appreciate them. To that end this series of what we hope may be practical and inspirational lessons is planned. For the first year the work will be on what may be called "Literature of the Gospel Restoration." A brief outline suggestive of the study centers of this part of the course follows:
1. Literature of the Beginnings Background study of family and boyhood of Joseph Smith in source writings—and study from literary viewpoint of Joseph's own story of the restoration.
2. Highlights of the Book of Mormon Epic Study of some of the dramatic events portrayed in this new "Book of Books"—this from the standpoint of effective storytelling.
3. Gospel Messages from the Book of Mormon Study of distinctive contributions of religious import and of literary value in the Book of Mormon.
4. Words of Light and Truth From the Prophet Study of choice selections from the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
5. Earlier Evangelistic Literature Study of selected excerpts from diaries, autobiographies, and other writings by loyal ones who helped in establishing the Church through testing years.
6. Lyric Expression of the Restoration Study of gospel songs and other poetic expression vibrant with the message of the new dispensation.
7. Literary Sidelights of the Founding Years Study of selections from this expository literature written to clarify and impress basic principles of the restored gospel in action.
8. Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years Study of distinctive and dependable literature portraying soul-testing, dramatic incidents that mark the rise of the Church under the inspired leadership of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
This spread of inviting work may we again impress represents a pioneering venture into a rich realm. It is entered into humbly with one thought, that of doing good. Our hope is not to cover the wide field with adequacy; rather do we trust that it may be opened alluringly, that new interest will be wakened, enjoyment and enrichment come to those who pioneer with us.
Further, this first year's work on "Literature of the Gospel Restoration" should lay a good foundation for the second year's course which is to be centered round the general theme, "Literature of the Expanding Pioneer Period."
482
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948
Lesson 1—Literature of the Beginnings Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, October 19, 1948
O P letters often give living glimpses of the past. Thoughts, feelings, home news, comments on passing events, informally written to friends and loved ones, are revealing of the character of the writer as well as of the days in which he or she lived. Sometimes such letters, in parts, rise to literary excellence; always they are source material of more or less help to historians and authors.
Fortunately for our present purpose, two such old letters have been preserved since the days when Washington was President of our country. They both were written by a stalwart American, Asael Smith, paternal grandfather of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and great-great-grandfather of George Albert Smith, now President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
This grandsire, born in 1744, twelve years after the "Father of our Country" came into the world, had lived through the stirring years of the French and Indian War, the Revolutionary War, in which he took part as a soldier of the American army, and on through the founding of our Nation to the year 1830, when our Church was organized.
The first of these letters, written to a friend, Jacob Town, reveals Asael Smith as one of the solid New England type, God-fearing, patriotic, of loyal friendship, with independent spirit, and a sense of humor.

After acknowledging with appreciation a letter from his friend, telling with gratitude of the well-being of his family, and giving word of the building of a new home, Asael writes of a "noisy" political party just defeated in its hopes to seize power. Then he comments: For my part, I am so willing to trust the government of the world in the hands of the Supreme Ruler of Universal Nature, that I do not, at present, wish to try to wrest it out of His hands.... He has conducted us through a glorious Revolution and has brought us into the promised land of peace and liberty; and I believe that He is about to bring all the world in the same beatitude in His own time and way. Then comes this touch of pleasantry: Give my best regards to your parents and tell them I have taken up with the eleventh commandment, that the negro taught to the minister, which was thus: The minister asked the negro how many commandments there were and his answer was "eleven, sir." "Aye," replied the other. "What is the eleventh? That is one I have never heard of." "The eleventh commandment, sir, is mind your own business." So I choose to do. Write to me as often and as large as you can and oblige your friend and well-wisher. (signed) Asael Smith

The second letter, written for his family, and to be read after his death, contains such gems of religious thought as the following: The soul is immortal; you have to deal with an infinite Majesty. Do all to God in a serious manner; when you think of Him, speak of Him, pray of Him, or in any way make your addresses to His great Majesty, be in good carest. Trifle not with His name nor with His attributes, nor call Him to witness to anything but is absolute truth. If you find that you stand in need of a Savior, Christ saith: "Look unto me."

Other gems of practical wisdom are in these lines from the letter: Above everything avoid a melancholy disposition, that is a humor that admits of any temptation and is capable of any impression and distemper. Any honest calling will honor you, if you honor that. Persevere in the way of well-doing and you may hope for success.

The letter closes with this paragraph: And all, and myself... And wish to leave to you everything I have in this world but oblivion; but leaving my virtues, if ever I had any, to revive and live in you (B.H., Comprehensive History of the Church, I, pp. 7, 8, 9, 10, 12). Surely the virtues of this grandsire have lived on in his posterity and have been amplified for the everlasting good of mankind.

Another type of literature represented by the History of Joseph Smith, by His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, brings us close to the Prophet's boyhood, and gives the story of his visions and soul-testing struggles through the earlier years of the restoration. All this is portrayed in its relation to loyal family life which characterized the Smith home. It is a story out of a loving, heroic mother heart.

In straightforward narrative, with 483 richness of incidents such as women more than men treasure, the life of her son Joseph is portrayed. Naturally the background of ancestry, of the struggles to make a livelihood in what was frontier Vermont and tugged western New York are given attention. One feels, too, the devout faith in God from the first through the pages of the little volume. At times, too, the narration attains qualities of story-telling art.

In chapter fifteen, for illustration, where heroic efforts are made with mother love and faith to save her son Joseph from a dangerous infection, the little drama is stirringly told. Doctors had decided the boy's leg must be amputated, but the mother insisted that one more trial be made to save it. This is the mother's story: The principal Surgeon... ordered cords to be brought to bind Joseph fast to a bedstead; but to this Joseph objected. The doctor, however, insisted that he must be confined, upon which Joseph said very decidedly, "No, doctor, I will not be bound, for I can bear the operation much better if I have my liberty!" "Then," said Dr. Stone, "will you drink some brandy?" "No," said Joseph, "not one drop!" "Will you take some wine?" rejoined the doctor. "You must take something, ation to which you must be subjected." " exclaimed Joseph, "I will not touch one particle of liquor, neither will I be tied down; but I will tell you what I will do—I will have my father sit on the bed and hold me in his arms, and then I will do whatever is necessary in order to have the bone taken out."

Looking at me, he said, "Mother, I want you to leave the room, for I know you cannot bear to see me suffer so; father can stand it, but you have carried me so much, and watched over me so long, you are almost worn out." Then looking up into my face, his eyes swimming in tears, he continued, "Now Mother, promise me that you will not stay, will you! The Lord will help me, and I shall get through with it."

Another home drama of heart-touching quality is portrayed with like skill in chapter nineteen. Here the death of Alvin Smith, eldest brother of Joseph, is related. Again the tender mother love, the loyalty of the family, more closely drawn together through the persecutions heaped on them for the sake of devotion to the truth, are revealed.

This faithful brother's counsel to all of them, and especially to his brother Joseph, is most impressive: "I am now going to die, the distress which I suffer, and the feelings that I have tell me my time is very short. I want you to be a good boy, and do everything that lies in your power to obtain the Record. Be faithful in receiving instruction, and in keeping every commandment that is given you. Your brother Alvin must leave you; but remember the example which he has set for you; and set the same example for the children that are younger than yourself, and always be kind to father and mother."

How faithfully this beloved brother's counsel was followed is impressively revealed in the life story of the Prophet Joseph. Happily we have that story in his own straightforward words. With distinctive clarity of style and convincing detail—for all whose hearts and minds are open to accept spiritual truth—the autobiographical sketch is written. Yet, whether accepted or not accepted, it has the qualities of a classic—it will be read and re-read down the ages.

What gives to this life-story such classic qualities? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 Its central message that God lives.

This the boy expressed with simple, trenchant words: I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me.... I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation.: Here is a courageous statement that will ever stand high in religious literature of the world. It is a burning testimony of truth out of the soul of a youth who had been given a divine work to do. With his characteristic straightforward style, Joseph Smith relates the rest of the story of the gospel restoration as he lived it. It is a simple, direct, natural unfolding of a stirring sequence of events. From a literary viewpoint, like other effective narration, it moves forward with clarity of sentences and orderly paragraphs. Such writings may be compared to a chain made up of "story links." Observe, for illustration, this construction of "Joseph Smith's Own Story." After a brief paragraph on his birth in old Vermont, and of the new home in western New York, this chain of events is given: Religious Conflict; A Boy's Problem; Biblical Wisdom; First Prayer; Divine Answer; Derision and Ostracism; Heroic Testimony of the Truth; Lonely, Wayward Years; "An Angel from on High"; A Precious Record Revealed; Further Test and Training; Treasures Delivered; Struggles Against Evil-minded Men; Record with God's Help Translated; Publishing of Sacred Scripture; Organization of Church. Apart from the divine import of this stirring epic which has taken its everlasting place in religious literature, there are basic characteristics that give it classic quality. First, it rings of sincerity; second, it has clarity and the charm of simple directness; third, it is portrayed with details that add vividness and— for those of open, spiritual mind and heart—truth. Great literature is lived before it is written. 'This means that what it portrays must be intrinsically a throbbing part of the author who brings it forth. Certainly Joseph Smith lived in reality the story of the gospel restoration. He lived the inner spirit and divine meaning of the Book of Mormon, and other great literature which, under inspiration of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, he gave to the hungering world. Ours is a precious privilege to come, through these books and the other literature bequeathed to us by this Prophet of these latter days, into close and uplifting relationship with his inspired and continuing life.

Studies and Activities Note: This lesson on Literature of the Beginnings—it should be kept clearly in mind by teachers and class members—is not to be made merely a study of history, though historical matters naturally will play a part in the study. The central purpose of the lesson and of all the other lessons of the course will be best served by giving major attention to the literary aspect of what is studied.

First, in dealing with old letters—it may be well to have the second letter of Asael Smith read for the helpful messages it carries—and a brief discussion of what well-written letters may mean in the preserving of the past—and in their help for history and writers of literature. Second, it will be well also to have some member of the class read aloud the story told in chapter fifteen (History of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith), of the Saving of the Boy Joseph—as an example of story-telling art. What qualities make it an effective story? Third, it is urged that the missionary pamphlet, Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story, be obtained by the teacher and the members of the class, so far as this is practicable. With it in hand, the study of the story, not alone for the message it contains—but also—and with emphasis—for appreciation of its literary qualities, can be more interestingly made.

Fourth, teachers and class members naturally will be impelled to search out other— firsthand literature which helps bring out vividly the days of the beginning when Joseph Smith as a youth received his divine message from the Father and the Son—and the visitations of the Angel Moroni. Whatever is appropriate to help enrich and vitalize this study should of course be contributed—but with this caution: Do not permit the lesson to go too far afield. Keep it true to its central purpose—make it a study of literature that truly portrays the story, the ideals, the fundamental principles of the gospel.

References Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 1. Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1. History of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith, Edited by Preston Nibley, 1945, Stevens and Wallis, Inc. Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story—A Missionary Pamphlet.

Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith: 2. 486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948

Work Tleeting—Sewing Value of Acquiring Make-over Skills; Make-over Possibilities (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Jean Ridges Jennings Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 AKING over old and outmoded clothing into new and useful articles is a stimulating and challenging experience. For women in families with a limited income this ability to make full use of every piece of clothing can be as helpful to the family budget as actually earning extra money. As a general rule an article of clothing is not made over into something else until it is no longer useful in its original form. One must learn to decide whether or not the article is more valuable as it is or as it may be converted. Make-overs cover an almost unlimited field, but in most cases their use is employed when a garment is to be worn by another person. This is not always the case, however, since one can re-use her own clothes by ingenious planning. A coat may be made over into a suit, dress, skirt, or even a different style of coat for a woman. It may also be made over into any of these same items for a young gitl or a child. In the latter case one must be careful that the fabric and color are suited to the individual for whom the garment is being made.

In order to provide an opportunity for the sisters of the wards to view the year's accomplishments in the sewing program, no lesson is provided for the month of May. Space does not permit a listing of all the make-over possibilities for a family, but the ensuing lessons will include more details for their use in home sewing.

The titles of the lessons for 1948-49 are as follows:

Lesson 1. Suggestions on Changing Skirt Lengths

Lesson 2. Remodeling Dresses An afternoon dress can be made over into a more up-to-date style for a new garment. Skirts and blouses can also frequently be fashioned from dresses that can no longer serve as they are.

Lesson 3. Making Women's Wear from Men's Wear A man's suit, coat, or raincoat can be made over into garments for a woman or for one of the children if the color and material are suitable.

Lesson 4. Salvage from Shirts Men's shirts can be made over into boys' shirts; into girls' blouses; into aprons and children's play clothes; or even into women's blouses. Here again one must be careful to be sure that colors and fabric designs are appropriate to the wearer.

Lesson 5. Outmoded Formals Old formals may be re-used for negligees, underwear, blouses, or afternoon dresses, depending on the type of fabric in the original garment. They can even be used for clever touches in making bedroom furnishings.

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Lesson 6. Blouses and Slips Slips, negligees, and nightgowns may be pressed into service for making blouses, vests, underclothing, or a variety of dainty articles for wee tots. House dresses, if not too badly worn or faded, can be used for aprons or children's play clothes.

Lesson 7. Using Your Odds and Ends Old shower curtains can be used for dish covers for the ice box, mixing bowl covers, small rain capes, or cases for linens to keep out dust and moths when storing them.

Lesson 8 Suggestions on Changing Skirt Lengths Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, October 12, 1948 ALMOST every woman or child sooner or later comes up against the problem of altering or lengthening skirts. At the present time when styles are undergoing a radical change and skirts are all longer than a year or two ago, most of us are faced with the necessity of finding ways to extend our skirts. Not many women can afford to discard clothes just because they are not in the height of fashion. But much can be done to modernize clothes and give them the so-called "new look."

There are many ways to make your skirts longer. Of first importance, though, is to choose the most suitable way for your particular need. Your plaid wool sports skirt would look foolish with an eyelet pantie ruffle added to its tailored lines. Or if you are as wide now as you care to be, you certainly won't set a series of contrasting bands in your skirt. So choose your lengthening strategy with care for both fabric and figure.

For a teen-ager who would wear her school skirt a few more months if it were a little longer, try crocheting a wool band at the bottom. If the skirt is cotton, spun rayon or linen, the band should be done in the mercerized crochet cotton. When you add length to a dress in crochet, you should add a touch of the same trimming around the neck or sleeves. In this way the crocheting will seem to be a planned decoration for the outfit, not merely a makeshift.

When crocheting or knitting is used as a strip it must always be pressed or blocked into shape to give it a finished look. There are skirts for which an eyelet embroidered ruffle is a perfect and eye-catching finish, particularly full "dirndles," or full gored types. This year when petticoats are so right, you will find this method of lengthening lifts last year's skirt to the height of this year's style. The ruffle can either be on a petticoat or attached to the skirt itself.

'Tack the eyelet ruffle to the skirt by hand. A folded bias band of plaid taffeta would be a perfect lengthener for a plain dark crepe dress. Unify the costume by carrying the same trimming as bands for the neck and sleeves. Another trick is a series of bands inserted in a skirt. Two or three bands may be used. Bands of graduated widths are more interesting than bands of the same width.

If your dress is short in the waist, you can insert a new waistband of a contrasting material. A dress which has a peplum can be lengthened by inserting a piece of material under the peplum where the piecing will not show. A skirt which has a hem can be faced. This is the simplest of all ways to add length. If the skirt has already been faced, you can still make the skirt longer by adding a band of self-matched or contrasting material to the underside of the facing.

When finished, it makes the original hemline appear to be a wide tuck taken just above the hemline for decoration. The band should be doubled or faced and can be stitched to the facing of the original hem. Do not stitch the band to the skirt itself.

No matter what material or method you choose for lengthening your clothes, be certain to select a material and a style of trimming suitable to the outfit.

SWOULD SCIENCE Latter-day Saint Political Thought Elder G. Homer Durham Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 THROUGHOUT the world a struggle is taking place for men's minds, to influence their political beliefs as a stepping stone to new and uncharted forms of government. Questions of political theory are the questions of the hour.

"Latter-day Saint Political Thought" has therefore been selected as social science lesson material for the next two years. Seven lessons during 1948-49 will be devoted to certain main currents. The second year will offer a detailed analysis of the Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General (Doctrine and Covenants, section 134), its application, and general world significance.

The objective of these lessons is to acquaint and familiarize the women of the Church with some fundamental issues of modern political thought, and to examine pertinent answers thereto as found in the literature and doctrines of the restoration; and thus aid them in teaching their children the meaning and value of free agency and liberty. Men everywhere search for adequate answers to these questions.

Currently, Communism threatens to engulf Christian civilization. What contribution does Latter-day Saint thought make to modern man's search for sound political theory? In this quest, class leaders and members will have occasion and stimulus to re-examine modern scripture as well as the relevant material in the entire stream of literature of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

In addition to the standard works, the following useful references are suggested:

Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of Man, Deseret Book Co., 1936, an entire book dedicated to the interpretation of political history in the light of gospel principles. It is one of the few systematic treatises of this type found in our literature.

Wright, John A: Man and the Dragon, Bookcraft, 1945, especially part 1, is another recent work dealing with war, peace, social and economic issues.

Complete chapters of basic source material LESSON DEPARTMENT will also be found (usually in a chapter entitled "Political Government" or similar name) in each of the following: Discourses of Brigham Young (Selected and arranged by John A. Widtsoe), Deseret Book Company. The Gospel Kingdom (Selections from the Writings and Discourses of President John Taylor, compiled by G. Homer Durham) Bookcraft. The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff (Selected and Arranged by G. Homer Durham), Bookcraft. Gospel Doctrine (Selections from the Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith), Deseret Book Company. Gospel Standards (Selections from the sermons and writings of President Heber J. Grant, compiled by G. Homer Durham). Published by The Improvement Era. The political utterances of Joseph Smith are classified and explained in Durham, G. Homer: Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, Bookcraft, 1944. They are likewise to be found in Smith, Joseph Fielding, The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Deseret News, 1938, with the exception of a few public documents. Teachers will find the current output of Church books, magazines, and conference reports invaluable sources for lesson enrichment. In addition, specific suggestions are carried in each lesson, together with questions for general discussion. If the claim that "the world's problems" can be solved by reference to gospel principles is to be realized, these lessons and materials have deep meaning. In these lessons the term State is commonly used to indicate an independent sovereign state (nation). Note: A lesson is outlined for Tuesday, February 22, 1949, since some Relief Societies hold their meetings on days other than Tuesday. It is suggested that Relief Societies which meet on Tuesday present the February 22 social science lesson on March 22 and the March 22 lesson on the fifth Tuesday, March 29, or combine the February and March social science lessons and present them together on March 22. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow: Lesson 1. The Meaning and Importance of Political Doctrines Objective: To point out the modern tendencies in political thought to ignore spiritual resources and to seek a cure-all through unlimited government. Lesson 2. Some Political Doctrines of the Book of Mormon Objective: To learn, from a study of political doctrines expressed in the Book of Mormon, that a government to be good must be composed of good people. Lesson 3. Political Ideas Advocated by the Prophet Joseph Smith Objective: To better appreciate the political doctrines advanced by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Lesson 4. "The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General" Objective: To study section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants as the belief of Latter-day Saints in regard to earthly governments and laws in general. Lesson 5. Main Currents in Latter-day Saint Political Thought as Revealed in Discourse and Literature Objective: To appreciate the contributions to political thought voiced by some of the early Church leaders. Lesson 6. Contemporary Domestic Problems Objective: To recognize the limitations of the State in its ability to solve problems. Lesson 7. International Strife and the Quest for Peace Objective: To appreciate the part some Latter-day Saints have taken in recent political activities and the obligation resting on Latter-day Saints to teach their children the doctrines of free agency and liberty in harmony with Latter-day Saint knowledge. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 Lesson 1-The Meaning and Importance of Political Doctrines Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, October 26, 1948 Evan Jensen The watchword of traffic safety is courtesy." This slogan appeared at the crossing of a busy intersection recently. The thought behind it appears trite at first. On closer examination we see the modern social problem in a nutshell. Man's material development has outrun his spiritual. Take the example of traffic, which kills and maims someone every minute. How do we try to solve this problem? Largely by car inspections, superdivided highways, and other materialistic means. This is why the sign, "The watchword of traffic safety is courtesy," caught my eye. We must mobilize our spiritual resources! Which would you rather face, head-on, in oncoming traffic, a driver in a jolopy, with courtesy extending from him to you; or, a discourteous, ribald person in a thirty-ton truck? Objective: To point out the modern tendencies in political thought to ignore spiritual resources and to seek a cure-all through unlimited government. And-trailer engineering marvel? Or vice-versa? If safety and courtesy are desired on the highway, what about courtesy in the use of battleships and bombs? Predominance of the Material Over the Spiritual Just as the modern approach to most problems emphasizes materiality over the spiritual resources of man, so does the modern State and its government exemplify a similar triumph. In case of conflict between two nations the questions usually asked are (1) What are their resources, especially, coal, iron, and petroleum? (2) What is their industrial production and capacity? (3) What is their population and birthrate? Resort is then made to force. The spiritual qualities of the two peoples concerned, their capacity at tolerance, forbearance, and compromise are rarely considered or utilized. Rather they are exploited, devilishly, in support of the material factors in the contest. Mankind's spiritual and material needs cannot be separated. But the emphasis given these aspects of human living should definitely subordinate the material to spiritual ends by spiritually motivated means, and not in reverse order. LESSON DEPARTMENT Increase in Material Functions of Government Today the material functions of modern government outstrip all others. Men have come to rely more on the State for "salvation," bread, security from hunger, disease, cold, atomic bombs, and the effects of their own indiscretions, than on any other thing. Accordingly, men search for adequate doctrines both to guide the State and to judge its operations as "the way out." These doctrines, more and more, reflect a totalitarian approach; namely, that the effective solution lies through governmental action, therefore all other possible means must be subordinated, if not absorbed, by the State. What is the nature of the State? What are its limitations? What is the sphere of effective State action? How should governments be run and controlled? This is the age of politics and political problems. What contribution does Latter-day Saint thought make in answer to these questions? What is the gospel, viewed in relation to these problems, and what are the gospel applications? Is there a "true" or better way of running governments as there is a "true" way of baptism and administering the sacrament of the Lord's supper? Or is the effective reach of the gospel confined to a few simple ordinances and individualistic beliefs having no connection with the War Assets Administration, British loans, the Politburo*, or revolution in Indonesia? A consideration of these and allied subjects will form the basis for this year's course of study. Contributions of the Past From the Greek world we derive one of the great political ideas of all time, limited government, meaning that government should be confined to set limits in order that power (which tends to be arbitrary) can be controlled for man's benefit. The Constitution of the United States is perhaps the world's greatest fulfillment of this idea. It confines government to certain channels, and forbids it to enter others (for example, those freedoms protected by the Bill of Rights).

Moreover, taught Aristotle, even limited power should be divided, with checks and balances—“mixed government”—in order to achieve political stability. Otherwise men are subordinated to the will of their rulers with the result that men serve the State rather than the State serving man. The President of the United States, for example, must have authorization from Congress in the form of a law before, normally, he can act. Then the courts may review any executive procedure thereunder. Expounded first by Aristotle, these general ideas are the foundation of constitution-making and constitutional government.

The Roman world, though absolutist, nevertheless carried through an idea which moderns speak of as “the rule of law,” namely, that State action must conform to law. Too often among the Romans, law could be the whim of the emperor.

The inner executive committee or controlling body of the Russian Communist Party, and the bureau of foreign Communist propaganda, 492

But by English times, the Greek and Roman doctrines had merged to recognize that good law, while conforming to natural or divine principles, must yet be agreed upon—in advance—by the people. Thus, twin ideas, limited government and government by consent of the governed, became the modern inheritance. Both are expressed in the Constitution of the United States.

The Crisis in Recent Political Thought

As inventions have multiplied, men, particularly since about 1870, have turned to the State to regulate, control, and now—plan the results accruing from the concentration of population in big cities and other revolutionary changes. Using the doctrine of “government by consent,” the people have gained control of their governments. Then they have asked (spurred on, many times, by scheming men) their governments to do this, then that, then the other thing, until the National Government of the United States alone has been looked to, not only by most Americans, but by peoples in Europe and Asia, as the means of solving all problems. So, State functions have increased enormously, not to mention the influence of socialistic doctrines.

What has happened to “limited government”? It appears to have become instead, by means of man’s resorting to the State, a doctrine of unlimited or total government! Can we have unlimited government and preserve the human rights, so precious to the advocates down the centuries, of limited government? Human experience teaches us differently. This is the crisis of modern political thought.

The Need for Nurturing Spiritual Attitudes

Within this crisis congregate the problems of modern society because our many social institutions have become so enmeshed in the machinery of the State that any break-up of government threatens to dissolve society. To alleviate this situation, there is powerful need for spiritual attitudes: courtesy, kindliness, forbearance, tolerance, mutual understanding, faith in God and in each other.

Such social institutions as the family, business corporations, labor unions, professional societies, farm bureaus, trade associations have—in the spirit of the times—come to rely more and more on government to settle and support their affairs. Juvenile delinquency, adult delinquency, divorce, broken homes, industrial strife—all too often we seek remedies through passing laws, setting up agencies and bureaus, when what is also needed is a nurturing of man’s fundamental religious nature.

Divorce involves two holy beings, a man and a woman. The juvenile delinquent, the striking miner, the recalcitrant employer, all are children of God, with deep wellsprings of spiritual power. What is being done to keep this power alive and functioning? If the forces of materialism through the unlimited State come to dominate our lives completely, what forces can then be free to operate in the effort to fulfill the great spiritual needs of men?

The State may try, often in a totalitarian way, as in Hitler’s Germany. But man is of such diverse outlook that spiritual freedom is perhaps his most precious freedom. So again, here is the crisis of modern politics and of modern thought.

What paths lead from this dilemma? This is the approach we seek.

Questions for Discussion

1. What is meant by “limited government”?

2. Does the doctrine of “limited government” imply that there are limits on “freedom” as well as on government? For example: Can society tolerate absolute freedom? Can a person, or group, do anything he pleases or must persons and groups accept certain responsibilities?

3. A main problem of government is to maintain the balance between freedom and authority. What are some of the limitations on personal freedom that might be considered desirable?

4. What are some possible limitations on personal freedom that might be considered undesirable?

5. What important human problems can you think of that governments must, of necessity and with satisfaction, solve?

6. Can you think of some human problems that cannot effectively be solved by governmental action?

7. How does governmental action differ from other forms of organized human activity? Does it differ in any respect? Why or why not?

Optional Lessons in the Field of Social Science—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions)

THE PRESIDENCY A UNIT

THE THREE ARE ONE Elder T. Edgar Lyon

Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 OUR course of lessons for this and the ensuing year is to be devoted to a study of the First Presidencies that have guided the destiny, under the hand of God, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

These men were strong men, men of faith, men possessed of leadership ability and determined that God’s work should be foremost in their lives. Two or three of the early leaders were not strong enough to withstand the persecutions they were called to endure, nor were they unselfish enough to lose all for the gospel, and they became critical of the Prophet, estranged from the saints and lost their influence with the people. They were replaced in their positions of authority by stronger and more faithful men.

But while they remained true, they were instruments in the hand of the Lord in furthering his work. One of the unique features of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is its plan of lay-leadership. Just as in the days of the Apostolic Church its leaders were drawn from men who made their livelihood from the various occupations of the day. Some continued to pursue their vocations along with their Church work until the end of their mortal administrations.

It was to be a Church of its people—in which the members could be mutually helpful in working out their salvation. The Lord’s Church, however, demands centralized guidance and a regulation of the Priesthood authority, divinely restored to the earth, otherwise the very power of its democracy and lay-leadership would lead to schisms that would destroy it.

So the Lord established by revelation presiding quorums through which is given divine guidance for the Church in all its activities both spiritual and temporal. Foremost among these presiding quorums is that of the First Presidency of the Church. The President of this quorum is defined in the Doctrine and Covenants as the “... pre-siding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church” (107: 66).

Prior to the organization of the Church, John the Baptist instructed Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery (May 1829) that they should be called respectively the first and second elders of the Church (D.H.C. (1, 40-41). The Prophet Joseph was President of the Church from April 6, 1830 to the day of his death. It was in November, 1832, that a First Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood was announced (D&C 68:15). But it was not until March of the following year that Joseph Smith was called by revelation to this Presidency (D&C 81:1-3). A month or so later (April 1832) at a conference held in Missouri, he was acknowledged President of the High Priesthood of the Church. Sometime in March, 1832, Frederick G. Williams was designated by revelation (D&C 81:1) to be a counselor to Joseph Smith; but it was nearly a year thereafter, March 18, 1833, when a Council of the First Presidency was fully organized, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams being set apart as Joseph's counselors. It will thus be seen that it was nearly three years from the organization of the Church before the highest Council was fully developed and completed (Widtsoe, John A., Priesthood and Church Government, pp. 258-259). The Prophet Joseph presided over the Church by virtue of his presidency over the High Priesthood of the Church and his ordination to that office. Each succeeding president has functioned by these same powers, assisted by counselors of his own choosing. Because the presidency has acted as a unit in its administrative functions, the counselors have not become known for their individual contributions to the Church. It is hoped that these lessons can point out some of the vital things they contributed to the welfare of the Church. A study of the contributions that these Church leaders have made to the Church should make us more appreciative of our religious heritage and cause us to prize our gospel teaching and its opportunities more than we commonly do. It is not the intention in these articles to give a complete biographical sketch of the life of each person studied. These can be found in convenient form elsewhere. Our intention is to stress their characters, their special talents and strengths in meeting the needs of their times, and the contributions that they made to Church growth and stability. The lessons as outlined for the first year are as follows: Lesson 1. The Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith Lesson 2. The Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith (concluded) Lesson 3. The Presidency of Brigham Young Lesson 4. The Presidency of Brigham Young (concluded) Lesson 5. The Presidency of John Taylor Lesson 6. The Presidency of Wilford Woodruff Lesson 7. The Presidency of Lorenzo Snow The following books will be found to be of greatest general value to the class leader: Jenson, Andrew, L.D.S. Biographical Encyclopedia, 4 vols. Nibley, Preston, The Presidents of the Church. LESSON DEPARTMENT Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, 6 vols. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Essentials in Church History. 495 Improvement Era. Consult Master Index by name of person. Various published biographies of the individual characters. Lesson -1: Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, October 26, 1948 President Joseph Smith JOSEPH SMITH WHEN Joseph Smith was born at Sharon, Vermont, on December 23, 1805, a life had commenced that was ultimately to influence the course of millions of lives in all portions of the world. The family came from New England stock who had emigrated to America from England in 1638. Joseph Smith's parents were devout believers in the Savior and his atoning work as related in the New Testament. When, in the spring of 1820, an attempt was made by the three popular churches of the American frontier—the Methodist, Presbyterian, and Baptist faiths—to get the settlers in the vicinity where the Smiths resided interested in joining one of their churches, Joseph's mind was, as he expressed it, "called up to serious reflection and great uneasiness." The zealous proponents of organized religion were insisting that religious truths could be gained from three sources: first, from the Bible; second, from the writing of the early Christian fathers and church councils; and third, by human reasoning, based on the Bible and a study of historic Christianity. Joseph Smith was not a trained religious scholar, nor was he acquainted with the history, documents, and traditions of the Christian world, hence these channels were not open to him. His approach to the problem of finding religious truth was characterized by a child-like faith. Just as great pioneers in science and education have cast traditional beliefs and practices aside and undertaken experimental research to discover truth, he subjected his religious perplexity to objective experimentation. He resorted to the method of God's anointed leaders in the early days of the Christian Church, namely, prayer and guidance through revelation. In his own words: In the midst of this war of words and tumult of opinions, I often said to myself: What is to be done? Who of all these parties are right; or, are they all wrong together? If any one of them be right, which is it, and how shall I know it? While I was laboring under the extreme difficulties caused by the contests of these parties of religionists, I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine. It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again and again, knowing that if any person needed wisdom from God, I did; for how to act I did not know, and unless I could get more wisdom than I then had, I would never know; for the teachers of religion of the different sects understood the same passages of scripture so differently as to destroy all confidence in settling the question by an appeal to the Bible. At length I came to the conclusion that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as James directs, that is, ask of God. I at length came to the determination to "ask of God," concluding that if he gave wisdom to them that lacked wisdom, and would give liberally, and not upbraid, I might venture (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:10-13). Unlike other religious founders, Joseph Smith was not a member of an already existing sect that he sought to reform. Neither did he lead a group of followers out of a church to form the nucleus of an apostate faction. Nor did he deliberately start out to found a new church, with preconceived notions about its theological teachings. He was commissioned, by the Father to bring to an apostate world the gospel of Jesus Christ, through the restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ in its original form.

As mentioned in the Preview, the Lord decreed that His kingdom on earth should be directed by a First Presidency. During the fourteen years that He presided over the Church, Joseph Smith had the assistance of counselors, four men at different times, serving in this capacity. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE�JULY 1948

With them he directed the various activities of the Church and its members. One of the tasks that occupied part of the time of the First Presidency was the regulation of the temporal affairs of the Church and the welfare of those who embraced its teachings. In the financial difficulties and in the persecutions in Ohio, Jackson, Clay, and Caldwell counties in Missouri, and Nauvoo, the First Presidency assisted Church members and sacrificed and suffered with them.

Another duty that rested upon the First Presidency was that of directing the missionary activities of the Church. They directed the establishment and operation of the School of the Prophets, which was designed primarily to better equip missionaries and Church leaders for their responsibilities. During the administration of Joseph Smith, missionary work was commenced in the eastern, southern, New England, and mid-western states of the Union; in Canada, Great Britain, and in some of the islands of the Pacific; and Palestine was dedicated for the gathering of the Jews and the ultimate opening of that land to the missionary work of the restored gospel.

In one great work, however, Joseph Smith stood quite apart from his counselors. It was imperative that further revelations be received if the Gospel in its fullness as restored to earth should be understood. Joseph Smith, as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator met this need as an instrument in the hands of God and throughout his life continued to build up the body of theological principles through the revelations he received. These he interpreted in terms of daily religious living. It is due to his efforts in this respect that the Gospel came to be a way of living, rather than a way of believing only.

In addition to the restoration and the interpretation of the true purposes and meanings of the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel, Joseph Smith gave to the world the true form, power, organization, and purpose of the Church as an instrument in the hands of God to accomplish His purposes on earth. He revealed the great doctrine of salvation for the dead, without which the benefits of the Atonement of Christ become limited to those who were members of His Church on earth and are not available to those who die without a knowledge of Christ and His Gospel. The keys of the priesthood were again restored to earth. The eternity of the marriage covenant, and the concept of eternal progression were glorious truths received as a heritage from the revelations to the first President of the Church.

In spite of the high position and the keys he held and the great devotion of his numerous followers, Joseph Smith remained essentially a common man among common men. In 1844, Josiah Quincy described him in Nauvoo as one dressed in the "costume of a journeyman carpenter," but added: A fine-looking man, is what the passer-by would instinctively have murmured upon meeting the remarkable individual who had fashioned the mold which was to shape the feelings of so many thousands of his fellow mortals. But Smith was more than this, and one could not resist the impression that capacity and resource were natural to his stalwart person.

497

Comparing Joseph Smith to another interesting acquaintance, Mr. Quincy continues: Of all men I have met these two seemed best endowed with that kingly faculty which directs, as by intrinsic right, the feeble or confused souls who are looking for guidance... Both were of commanding appearance, men whom it seemed natural to obey (Josiah Quincy, Figures of The Past, pp. 321, 233).

HYRUM SMITH

Hyrum Smith No great man stands alone in his triumphs, and Joseph Smith had stalwart assistants upon whom he leaned for encouragement and support, and to whom he delegated part of the responsibility of the management of the growing Church. The one closest to him in this work was his brother Hyrum, who was his second counselor from November 7, 1837 until January 19, 1841, when he was sustained as Patriarch to the Church.

The literature of the world records some stories of great love that has existed between men. The Greeks had their account of Damon and Pythias; the Hebrews, the touching friendship of David and Jonathan; but in the love of Joseph and Hyrum for each other we have a love of brothers that stands out as a classic account of a love that was stronger than the fear of death. Joseph paid him this tribute: I could pray in my heart that all my brethren were like unto my beloved brother Hyrum, who possesses the mildness of a lamb, and the integrity of Job, and in short, the meekness and humility of Christ and I love him with that love that is stronger than death, for I never had occasion to rebuke him, nor he me.

Hyrum Smith was born February 9, 1800, at Tunbridge, Vermont, being nearly six years older than the Prophet. He was of a religious temperament, and although he had not affiliated himself with any church until he was twenty years of age, he had been reared with the New England religious concepts so that when the religious revival was instituted at Palmyra, New York, in the spring of 1820, he, his mother, a sister, and a brother joined the Presbyterian faith. This was in reality a return to the traditional family religion in New England.

However, when his younger brother Joseph reported his vision, Hyrum became his staunch supporter and all through the trying times never varied from his loyal devotion to his brother. There is a powerful evidence of the sincerity of Joseph Smith in this fact that he could convince his own brother and others in the family of the reality of his revelations.

Hyrum was baptized in Seneca Lake in June 1829, and became a persistent advocate of the new religious principles. He it was who first met Parley P. Pratt and converted him to the restored Gospel. A study of Church history reveals many other converts whose first acquaintance with the latter-day work came through a contact with Hyrum.

Hyrum was one of the eight witnesses to the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon. Parley P. Pratt tells how much his first conversation with Hyrum influenced him. He wrote: He also unfolded to me the particulars of the discovery of the Book; its translation; the rise of the Church of Latter-day Saints, and the commission of his brother Joseph, and others, by revelation and the ministering of angels, by which the apostleship and authority had been again restored to the earth. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE�JULY 1948

After duly weighing the whole matter in my mind, I saw clearly that these things were true; and that myself and the whole world were without baptism, and without the ministry and ordinances of God; and that the whole world had been in this condition since the days that inspiration and revelation had ceased—in short, that this was a new dispensation or commission, in fulfilment of prophecy, and for the restoration of Israel, and to prepare the way before the second coming of the Lord (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, p. 39). When the Prophet and others were arrested at Far West, Missouri, late in October 1838, and incarcerated during the winter of 1838-39 in Liberty and other Missouri jails, Hyrum was one of those apprehended. Although he had many opportunities to escape, he refused to desert his brother Joseph. When Joseph Smith went to Carthage late in June 1844, to answer to charges growing out of the destruction of the Nauvoo Expositor, Hyrum insisted on going with him. He remained with his beloved brother by his own choice. Hyrum was killed shortly before the Prophet.

The epitaph, "In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated!" (D&C 135:3) is a fitting tribute to Hyrum as well as to Joseph Smith.

Each and every O. P. Skaggs System Store stands squarely on its reputation of fair and honest dealing. Our customers are our friends. Any profit we hope to make must be honestly earned through rendering you efficient service at a fair charge. We can hope to merit your friendship and patronage on no other basis. Try an O. P. S. Store the next time you go shopping.

O. P. SKAGGS - OFFICIAL SERVICE

Elem 'System STORES RONIE JOHNSON For 58 YEARS...

This means hundreds of our markers—larger headstones—and monuments are memorials in City Cemetery, Mt. Olivet and the other ones.

THE FINEST OF GRANITES BEAUTIFULLY DESIGNED SALT LAKE MONUMENT COMPANY Same Location Since 1890

186 N Street, Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Phone 4-4025 Salt Lake City

SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. It's Just a Step TO A FRIENDLY Sears Store … The big, chock-full-of-value store that's so easy to reach. With plenty of FREE PARKING space, and no downtown traffic to dodge. You'll find Sears dollar-saving bargains just a few minutes from your own front door.

Main or State at 8th South Dial 5-6651

Park Free Professional Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 499 500

Joseph. After the martyrdom, the Times and Seasons printed an editorial in which this was said of Hyrum: He lived so far beyond the ordinary walk of man that even the tongue of the vilest slanderer could not touch his reputation. He lived godly and he died godly. His greatest contribution to the Church is found in his stalwart support of his Prophet-brother. With him, he was so closely identified that it is almost impossible to discover wherein one acted apart from the other. In the midst of the Prophet's many trials and disappointments, often being deceived by those whom he trusted, God had given him one who stood firmly by him and from whom he gained strength.

At the time of Hyrum Smith's death, his son Joseph Fielding, born to his wife, Mary Fielding, was five years old. Joseph Fielding Smith later became the sixth president of the Church, presiding with great dignity and honor over the Church for which his father gave his life.

Topics for Study and Discussion

1. What characteristics of the boy, Joseph, particularly fitted him for the work he was to be called to do? What incidents in his later life exemplify the same characteristics?
2. Read section 11 of the Doctrine and Covenants. What influence did this revelation have upon Hyrum Smith? Relate incidents in his life which show this influence.
3. In what ways did Hyrum support and strengthen his brother, the Prophet? Give examples.
4. Read verses 91-96, section 124, Doctrine and Covenants. What is meant by the words in verse 91—"by blessing and also by right"?

Smith, Joseph Fielding, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 38-128.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948

ITS THIRTY-EIGHT ELECTRIC COOKING... SAVES in many ways in more than 50,000 homes in the territory we serve.

UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. BALANCED EDUCATION Combining Character Development with Technical Training IS AVAILABLE AT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY You will find what you need among the offerings of more than 50 departments in the colleges of Applied Science, Arts and Sciences, Commerce, Education, Fine Arts, or in the Graduate School.

Registration for the Autumn Quarter begins September 27. Freshman Orientation and Personnel Tests will be given September 24 and 25. Write for your copy of the 1948-49 Catalog to BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH

THE SEVENTH HANDCART COMPANY (Continued from Page 451)

ox, they could have it. This seemed a miracle to these hungry people.

They used the meat sparingly and it lasted several weeks. With supplies low, and flour almost gone, they approached the Great Salt Lake alley.

The Johnston Army was held by the Federal Government at Fort Bridger during the winter of 1857, and it did not come towards Salt Lake until the spring of 1858, when it marched below town and traveled to Cedar Valley. Three of the young men of the Seventh Handcart Company were called to stand guard in Echo Canyon.

When the handcart Company was less than 100 miles from Salt Lake City, teams came to meet the people, bringing food and supplies, and cake and fruit for the sick and feeble. The courage and faith of these young people who walked all the way to the mountains and arrived in Salt Lake City, September 13, 1857, can never be excelled.

MARATHON OF SOULS Ruth Harwood

Well may we speak of mankind as a race. And now, as in the ancient classic days,

Not he who runs the swiftest wins the race;

Nor he who first may reach the goal,

But one who comes with torch still burning,

Keep thy light forever flaming, oh, my soul!

501

WESNESDAY SIS IIIE8/ Utah's Pioneer Mortuary Three consecutive generations have devoted their lives to the funeral service standards of this community. The fourth generation is now being trained to carry on the family tradition.

JOSEPH E. TAYLOR Joseph Wm. Taylor Eldest son of Joseph E. Taylor, started his career with his father

MARGARET TAYLOR BECK Daughter of JOSEPH Wm. Taylor Is now successfully carrying on, assisted by JOSEPH Wm. Taylor

MEMORIAL MORTUARY 125 No. Main Phone 3-7624 Salt Lake City, Utah

Class Leaders... Here Are Your REFERENCE BOOKS for your 1948-49 Social Science Lessons

1] MAN AND THE DRAGON...$2.00 [1] DISCOURSES OF WILFORD B. HICKS Dr. John A. Widtsoe WOODRUFF $2.50 [1] JOSEPH SMITH: PROPHET Dr. G. Homer Durham STATESMAN a $2.25 [1] GOSPEL STANDARDS...$2.25 Dr. G. Homer Durham Heber J. Grant [1] GOSPEL KINGDOM._._......$2.25 [1] GOSPEL DOCTRINE..............$2.50 Dr. G. Homer Durham Joseph F.

Smith [ ] TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH 2.50 Joseph Fielding Smith BOOKCRAFT 1186 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah When ordering, add 2% Sales Tax in Utah Write for listing of books

BEAUTY Caroline Eyring Miner Illusive as a columbine with wings, Half bird, half flower, in and out of sight, Fluttering green iridescent wings, as bright As air bejeweled with rain, now beauty weaves A mystic spell about me, for there clings To her the wild sweet longings from a night That I have lately known, the wondrous sight Of apple blossoms cradled in green leaves Freeing themselves and drifting like perfume, Pink purling, fragile, real as earth to me. So long as I can see the world abloom, See spring's fantastic flowered canopy, I shall know beauty that my heart will hold Against the winter when I shall be old.

THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN PAINT - among them you can find any color you want to match any color in draperies, wallpaper—anything. BENNETT'S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho Qdeal fuel for HOUSE HEATING WATER HEATING COOKING REFRIGERATION MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Serving 26 Utah and Wyoming Communities

LESTER BETSY ROSS SPINET a beautiful piano with a magnificent tone Look the entire field over and you'll find that dollar for dollar this is the best piano value in the land. EASY BUDGET TERMS AVAILABLE Please forward complete information about Lester Betsy Ross Spinets. Address 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET Wtude SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH

Page 503 D FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY RELIEF STANDING IN PIONEER I enjoyed the blossoms frontispiece JOY eve SOCIETY WORKERS Issue of the Magazine. The material in th esting the more I did Tead, though jt Was Nearly twelve o'clock—dinner time—] Subscribers God has Created men that they May help and love each Other—ney. &t quarrel, just that is Missing

FIVE GENERATIONS Seated, Hulda A, Batty of Pima, Aj. ZO Couldn't stop Teading, My 800dness,

BASIC BOOKS For YOUR L. D. S. LIBRARY THE HOLY BIBLE ............51.75 and up BOOK OF MORMON, DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, AND PEARL OF GREAT PRICE. TRIPLE COMBINATION, leather, gilt ...$7.90 COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH—6 vol..............$29.00 JOSEPH SMITH, AN AMERICAN PROPHET -3.00 PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH ____ $3.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY "Education lives as long as you read good books." Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City 10, Utah

—A Beneficial Life Insurance Policy is your Declaration of Financial Independence for you and your family. BENEFICIAL LIFE| INSURANCE CO. Home Office Beneficial Life Building Salt Lake City 1, Utah George Albert Smith, President THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
