TEMPERANCE.

	The subject of temperance is one of great
importance to all, both old and young, because
it affects their well-being physically, mentally
and morally.
	"Let your moderation be known unto all
men," was the exhortation of the apostle Paul;
and there has never been a time in the world's
history when such an exhortation was more
needed than the present, because intemperance
in many things has become so common that it is
almost the author of all the evils from which
we suffer.
	Shall we speak of intemperance in dress?
How much better it would be for many if they
would in this respect study their health and
comfort instead of becoming slaves to the fool-
ish and oftentimes injurious customs of fashion.
	Then how much sin and sorrow is caused by
intemperance of speech. The apostle James
says the tongue is an unruly member, hard to
tame and sometimes set on fire of hell; and
truly when we hear men and boys swear and
take the name of the Lord in vain, when we
hear obscene and vulgar language on the streets,
we are compelled to acknowledge the truth of
these words. We should also be temperate in

[Column 2]

our passions and not allow angry feelings to
take possession of us. If we could only re-
member at all times that "a soft answer turneth
away wrath," and could also exercise sufficient
self-control to return a soft answer when angry
words are spoken; or, if we could do no better,
turn away until anger has had time to cool.
If this were always done how many fearful
crimes would be prevented, and how few
quarrels there would be, for we all know that
it is impossible for one to quarrel alone; and
oh! how often loving hearts are wounded by
unkind words, oftentimes thoughtlessly spoken,
but if they come from those we love, how deep
is the scar they leave! And there have been
instances where persons would have given all
they possessed if they could have recalled
words they had spoken in anger.
	There are many other things that might be
classed under the head of intemperance, but we
pass them by at the present to speak of that
bane of human health and happiness, the im-
moderate use of intoxicating drinks. This is
not only a great evil in itself, but leads to al-
most every other.
	I once read an old legend of a man who
was supposed to be perfect, and Satan, desiring
to obtain possession of him, obtained permission
to tempt him with three things, the least of
which was to get drunk. He being greatly
shocked at the magnitude of the first two crimes
presented to him, thought it would not be so
bad a thing to get drunk, and while in that
state committed both the other crimes, and so
the devil gained possession of him.
	We know that it would be impossible to
enumerate the evils that arise and the sin that
is committed through the use of intoxicating
drinks. Could we lift the curtain and look in
to those dens of iniquity where so many of the
youth are led astray, and take their first lessons
in vice; could we look into the homes that are
made desolate, and see the grief and tears that
intemperance has caused, I think it would be
enough to make our young men exclaim with
the wise man: "Wine is a mocker, strong drink
is raging; who so ever is deceived thereby is
not wise; at the last it biteth like an adder and
stingeth like a serpent."
	The question is asked by King Solomon,
"Who hath wo? Who hath contention? Who
hath babblings? Who hath sorrow? Who hath
wounds without cause? Who hath redness of 
eves?" And the answer is, "They who tarry long
at the wine cup," they that go to seek mixed
drink. How true this is, how many times do we
see the youth who was the pride of his father
and promised to be the comfort of his mother,
full of the strength and vigor of his young
manhood and yet how often are all these bright
hopes wrecked on the rock of intemperance and
the gray hairs of the parents brought down
with sorrow to the grave.
	We read in the 35th chapter of Jeremiah
an account of the children of a man by the
name of Rechab, who had promised their
father that they would drink neither wine nor
strong drink, they nor their sons nor their
daughters for ever, and the Prophet Jeremiah
was commanded to set pots of wine before them
to see if they would remain faithful to the
promise they had made, and they said, "we have
obeyed the voice of our father in all that
he charged us to drink no wine all our days, we
nor our wives, nor our sons, nor our daughters."
And because they were faithful to the covenant
hey had made the Lord was pleased with


them and made them a great promise that
though great calamities should fall upon the
wicked the house of Jonadab the son of
Rechab should not want a man to stand before
Him forever.
	The Latter-day Saints have especial teachings
on this matter. We have in the Word of Wis-
dom also a promise given in these last days
that if we will be temperate and abstain from
things that are hurtful, the destroying angel
will pass us by, and we shall obtain great
treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I think I
hear a young man say, "How shall I escape
from this great evil of intemperance, that has
become so prevalent that it assails us on every
hand?" By keeping out of the company of
those who would tempt us and whose ways
lead down to death.
	Said one of our great poets: "Vice is a mon-
ster of so frightful mein as to be hated, needs
but to be seen; but seen too oft, familiar with
its face, we first endure, then pity, then em-
brace." Thus we should shun the first ap-
proach of temptation and turn our backs upon
it; and we shall not only be rewarded with health
and length of days, but shall have gained the
greatest of all victories, a conquest over self.
