		S. M. POMEROY.

	IONA.
DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT—
	Thinking that perhaps a few items from
this part of our much favored land might
not be amiss, I submit the following:
	This place is inhabited mostly by young 
married people. By "young" I mean those
born and reared in Utah, to which fair land
some would fain return, but we feel mostly
that we have a mission here although not hav-
ing been called. There are, I should judge,
about sixty families; all, with perhaps one or
two exceptions, belonging to the same faith.
We have all of the different organizations and
in good running order considering that so few
live in town, most of the people being still on
their ranches. There seems a great desire to
have the children educated, not only in book
learning but in the principles of the gospel, as
there are a great many of us that took but
very little part in religion until we came to be
isolated as you might say from the leaders of
our Church and from our fathers and mothers,
who had taught us the principles of life and
salvation. Our worthy President of the Ban-
nock Stake, Brother Thos. E. Ricks, is a good,
kind father to us all, and we love to see his
smiling face as he makes his tours among us.
	Our Relief Society Jubilee was a great suc-
cess, and seemed to be enjoyed by all, and we
had a time of rejoicing long to be remembered.
Our program was similar to those I have seen
published. The EXPONENT is very valuable
to me and in reading it over I can see that
our Utah sisters are far ahead of us in the
cause of suffrage. I am one of those who once
enjoyed the right of franchise, and I hope to
see the day when we will again have all our
rights and privileges, never more to be taken
from us.
	I have been very much tied in the house this
winter, but I hope as the weather gets warmer
I will be able to go about, as I wish very
much to canvass for the EXPONENT, as I
would love to see every mother in Zion sub-
scribe for it, especially the young mothers, as
I believe it to be almost indispensable. In re-
calling the happy hours I have spent in read-
ing it, I would like to see my sisters also enjoy
it.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main yours in love,
