NATIONALISM.

	The subject of Nationalism, upon which I
have been appointed to write (or something
akin to it, but under another name) has for
many years, been, to me, a very interesting
one; but unless my mind shall be enlightened
by the Holy Spirit, I shall not be able to do
justice to even my ideas upon the subject.
	Nationalism, as I understand it, is the con-
solidation of the interests of the people of a
nation, and I believe that a person who can
conceive of the beauty and shape the ideal of
such a system as Edward Bellamy has, in his
"Looking Backward," much to some extent be
inspired by the Spirit of God. Such a system
could not be carried out without unity,and unity
is a principle, or the effect, of obedience to the
Gospel; and it has been said, "No man
knoweth the things of God, but by the Spirit
of God."
	Mr. Bellamy says that by the practice of the
system which he so nicely portrays, all incen-
tives to dishonesty are taken away; but there
is always a space, between the theory and the
practice of every new system, in which some
preliminary steps have to be taken to get it
into working order. First, then, would come
conversion to the theory; then implicit faith in
the author of it. Lastly, but not least, a will-
ingness to sacrifice all of a person's worldly
possessions to establish it; for without a spirit
of prophecy no one could know that any thing
would succeed until it had been demonstrated
by actual practice.
	What the world calls nationalism (the

[Column 2]

essence of it, if not the method as described by
Mr. Bellamy) the Latter-day Saints call a
United Order, an order which must prevail,
among the Saints at least,when the will of God
is done on earth—as it is done in heaven. But
like all correct and righteous principles, it
takes righteous people to establish it—those
who can love their neighbor as themselves,
impart freely of their substance, and labor for
the good of all.
	We have on record several instances of a
system such as this having been in operation,
but at no time, as far as I know, except as a
result of obedience to the Gospel, unless the
Quakers and perhaps some other communities
of a like nature might be classed among that
order, but which according to my understand-
ing run in too narrow a groove to be classed
either with the nationalism of Mr. Bellamy or
the United Order of the Latter-day Saints.
	I will try in my feeble way, to present some
of the instances to which I have referred:
	It is recorded in the 1st chap., of the Acts
of the Apostles that Peter and the rest of the
Apostles were preaching the Gospel in Jerusa-
lem, subsequent to the death and resurrection
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and that
their hearers were pricked in their hearts and
said, "Men and brethren what shall we do?"
Peter replied, "Repent, and be baptized every
one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for
the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the
gift of the Holy Ghost; and in one day there
was added to their number about three thous-
and souls, and they continued steadfastly in
the Apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in
breaking of bread, and in prayers; and all
that believed were together and had all things
common, and sold their possessions, and goods,
and parted them to all men, as every man had
need."
	We find recorded also that at this time they
enjoyed the gifts of the Gospel; the sick were
healed, the blind were made to see, the deaf to
hear, the lame to walk, and the dead were
raised to life; and every man heard the Gospel
in his own tongue, whatsoever his nationality,
and the people rejoiced exceedingly in the
Holy One of Israel.
	In the 19th chap., of Matthew, we find that
a young man asked the Savior what good
thing he could do that he might have eternal
life. Jesus told him to keep the command-
ments, but the young man answered, "All
these things have I kept from my youth up;
what lack I yet?" "Jesus said unto him, If
thou wilt be perfect,go and sell that thou hast,
and give to the poor, and thou shalt have
treasures in heaven, and come and follow me,
But when the young man heard that saying,
he went away sorrowful for he had great pos-
sessions. Then said Jesus unto his disciples,
Verily I say unto you, that a rich man shall
hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven."
	Let us now turn to the Book of Mormon,
and see what transpired upon this continent
after this time. In the book of Nephi, the son
of Nephi, who was the son of Helaman, we find
that, "there was a great multitude gathered
together of the people of Nephi, round about
the Temple which was in the land Bountiful,"
after the terrible storm and earthquakes which
had taken place at the time of the crucifixion of
our Lord and Savior at Jerusalem, when many
notable cities were overthrown and many
swallowed up in the depths of the sea, and the
whole face of the earth was changed. "They
were marveling and wondering, one with
another, and were showing to one another the
great and marvelous change which had taken
place, and they were also conversing about
Jesus Christ, of whom the sign had been given
concerning his death. And while they were
thus conversing, one with another, they heard
a voice as it were out of heaven, and it spoke
to them, even the third time, and they under-

[Column 3]

stood it, and it said unto them, Behold my
beloved son, in whom I am well pleased, in
whom I have glorified my name, hear ye him."
"When Jesus descended among them, and after
convincing them that it was he that had been
crucified, he taught them the gospel, ordained
twelve apostles and taught them many things
which he forbade them to write; and Jesus
blessed them as they did pray unto him and
his countenance did smile upon them, and the
light of his countenance did shine upon them
and behold they were as white as the counten-
ance and also the garments of Jesus; and be-
hold the whiteness thereof did exceed all the
whiteness,yea even there could be nothing upon
earth so white as the whiteness thereof," and
he taught them for three days, "and after that
he did show himself unto them oft" and did
break bread oft, and bless it, and gave it unto
them. He healed all their sick,and their lame,
opened the eyes of their blind, unstopped the
ears of the deaf, raised a man from the dead,
and opened the mouths of babes, and they
uttered marvelous things, and the things which
they did utter were forbidden, that there
should not any man write them. "And the
disciples whom Jesus had chosen began from
that time forth to baptize and to teach as many
as did come unto them  And as many as were
baptized in the name of Jesus were filled with
the Holy Ghost, and many of them saw and
heard unspeakable things, which are not law-
ful to be written, and they taught and did
minister one to another, and they had all things
common among them, every man dealing justly,
one with another. And he told them to take
upon themselves his name, for they were
founded upon his gospel, and by his name
they should be called at the last day."
	I will make only a brief extract from the
"Pearl of Great Price,"as my article is getting
already too lengthy: "And the fear of the
Lord was upon all nations, so great was the
glory of the Lord, which was upon his people,
and the Lord blest the land, and they were
blest upon the mountains, and upon the high
places, and did flourish, and the Lord called
his people Zion, because they were of one heart
and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness;
and there was no poor among them;	*	*	and
lo, Zion in process of time was taken up into
heaven."
	I will now quote from the Doctrine and 
Covenants from a revelation given to Joseph
Smith, the great Prophet of the 19th century,
April 23, 1834:
	"For it is expedient that I the Lord should
make every man accountable, as steward over
earthly blessings which I have made and pre-
pared for my creatures. I the Lord stretched
out the heavens, and built the earth as a very
handy work, and all things therein are mine."
	"And it is my purpose to provide for my
Saints, for all things are mine. But it must
needs be in mine own way; and behold this is
the way, that I, the Lord, have decreed to pro-
vide for my Saints, that the poor shall be exalted
in that the rich are made low. For the earth is
full, and there is enough and to spare; yea I
prepared all things, and have given unto the
children of men, to be agents unto themselves.
Therefore if any man shall take of the abund-
ance which I have made, and impart not his
portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto
the poor and the needy, he shall, with the
wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in tor-
