IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIV.
	After the young ladies ascertained that Clair
could sing and play, was fond of sketching and
inclined to be literary in his tastes, they seemed
to forgive everything else and to consider him
one of the family. He helped them wonder-
fully in a way, not practically, but certainly
his tastes were elevating. He loved the ances-
tral home, and though he had been more than
contented in his own country, yet when he
found such grandeur and magnificence in the
place which was to be his inheritance in part,
he felt the pride of a great name and of honor-
able heritage, and his aspirations were noble,
and becoming his station; much more so than
those of his father, notwithstanding the ple-
beian blood that flowed in his veins from the
lineage of his mother.
	Lady Anna improved every day she passed
in the society of her brother. His ideas of
womanliness and of things in general, were of
the highest order, and his influence over those
around him tended towards advancement in
the highest cultivation. His cousin Anna had
never seen any one to compare with him in true
manliness, though in the best society he had
never mingled and scarce knew the customs
and manners of the class of people to which he
really belonged. He never cast any reflections
upon the name of his father, who had defraud-
ed him of his birthright as long as he lived
(and all because of a silly quarrel with his
mother); he seemed to be of a forgiving and
gentle nature, and through these beautiful and
estimable qualities he won friends and obtain-
ed influence, which gave him prestige wherever
he went, and made him a leader, although he
had not the haughty pride and bearing of an
English nobleman. His very simplicity gave
peculiar charm to his manner, that made him
more attractive than those who were accustom-
ed to the elegance and luxury of an aristocrat-
ic home.
	Lady Anna and her cousin soon found that
the elite of the neighborhood were anxious to
cultivate their acquaintance since Clair had
been introduced, for Mr. Burke, true to his
promise, came down a week after his abrupt
departure and informed the family and others
interested in the matter that Monsieur Clair-
ville was the son of Sir Edward Hilliard and
must be acknowledged as his father's rightful
heir, however reluctant the nobility might be
to receive him.
	The young girls were very glad to have such

[Column 2]

a chaperone; and even Miss Conway, staid and
practical as she was, loved to listen to his fine
voice, and never wearied of his songs or con-
versation. It was much better to have some
one to walk or ride or boat with them, and in
every place and under all circumstances, young
Clair seemed to fit in admirably. In time he
took in the whole situation of affairs, and with
wonderful tact managed to make himself use-
ful and needful to them all. Dr. Bland trust-
ed him with his attachment for Miss Conway,
and so did Maitland Walton, and as for his
sister and his cousin, he could read them al-
most perfectly. As he had no secrets of his
own, he was deeply interested in theirs, and
especially so in that of Dr. Bland and Miss
Conway, knowing how deep and intense must
be the devotion of such a man as the doctor.
It was not the love of a boy, but of a man of
mature years, whose affections could not have
been given lightly, and who had staked all
