MAY DAY.
        
It has rained all through the dark long hours,
An incessant pour, not in fitful showers,
Beneath the dripping lintel come no sunny gleams
With a promise that the day might fulfill the dreams
Of a happy, happy May day with the sunlight's beams.

I stand within the shelter’d porch
	Safe from dripping eaves,
Watching the sparkling rain-drops
	Falling on grass and leaves;
All across the meadows are little pools a-glimmering;
And adown the lane are little rivulets simmering;
A tiny birdling plumes itself within a sheltered nook,
And two shining black birds hop close with daring look;
The watch dog shivering near me gives a piteous whine;
Anon the blatant call of hungry calf, and low of waiting
	kine,
All add to the dreariness of this dripping, rainy day;
Forsooth ’tis dreary dreariness on this the first of May.

Tho' to the sodden meadow and the new-plowed field
The rain brings a promise of a heavy harvest yield—
To me it brings a sadness, for just the day before,
I had given promise the meadows to wander o'er.
The children in their rambles had found some blossoms
white,

Just above the duck pond, so mother must see the sight;—
They thought that on the Mayday
We all would have a gay day;
Dear hearts, they have not learned,
That happiness hard earned,
				Is not secure;
And that pleasures come through pain,
And that losses without gain
				We must endure.

And 'tis the Lord's day, and one of fasting and of praise
To Him that rules the Universe for sending better days.
But now this steady rain fall, we shall not be there I ween,
With the faithful worshipers, for there’s dreary miles be-
		tween.

The mountains towering white
	Are by the storm clouds kissed, 
Even the low hills near us
	Are hid by the rain-fall's mist;
There is no hope 'midst the dreariness
	That the sun will shine today;
When hark ! around and above us
	Trills the mead-lark’s bonny lay.
I know, though there is no break in the clouds, 
	The sky will soon be seen,
And through the rain's unceasing patter,
	I can see a different scene.
		*	*	*		*	*	*
True to the cheery bird’s promise,
	The clouds ere long drift apart;
But the mists still cling to the valley,
	Hugged close to the damp earth's heart;
Like the love of a mother for a wayward child.
	Holding it close in a loving caress,
Hoping and trusting for future good,
	Though often times chilled by its wilfulness.

But the warmth of Mayday Spring time,
	Scattered the silvery sheen;
And the glow of a waning sunlight,
	Tinged valleys and hills of green.

Though the day began with sadness,
Hope brought smiles and gladness,
Perhaps the dewy blossoms, should they grow another day.
Will increase in beauty for another day in May. 
										E.T.


No man or woman of the humblest sort can
really be strong, gentle, pure, and good with-
out the world's being better for it, without
somebody's being helped and comforted by the
very existence of that goodness.


