			REV. T. DE WITT TALMAGE.


Leave aside all power of a woman's influence
over a man's life if you will, and consider his
helplessness. A man doesn't know how to take
care of himself. He is not quite as helpless as a
ship at sea without a compass, but the simile
can almost be truthfully applied. The absence
of a wife from home has demonstrated to many
a man how large and important a part she is
of it, and of him. The right kind of a wife
knows better what is essential to her husband's
comfort than he does himself—far better. He
waits for illness to come, and then combats it,
frequently when too late. But the wife sees the
symptoms and uses preventives. Her keen in-
sight tells her that her husband is unwell when
sometimes he is not conscious of it himself.
Leave a man alone, and he will sit for hours
in a pair of wet shoes, or wetter clothes. Not
so when a woman is near. Women, we are
told, know little of business, yet when business
troubles come to a man what a comfort a good
wife can be. When he despairs, she is hopeful.
By her efforts, more, perhaps, than by what
she actually accomplishes, she brings new hope,
new courage, and points the way to a new be-
ginning. How often women have been the
means of averting business disasters or mul-
tiplying failures with further implications the
world will never know, but there are men who
know it, and they are the men of whom to ask,
"Is woman a failure?"
				The Ladies Home Journal.


Although the British House of Commons
voted down the woman suffrage bill on April
27, which after Gladstone’s change was hard-


ly to be wondered at, still the vote stood 152
to 175, showing a large number in its favor.
Ex.
	The welcome to Lady Henry Somerset on
her landing at Liverpool, was so general and
enthusiastic that Association Hall could not
hold all who assembled, and an overflow
meeting of nearly seven hundred was held.
The mayor also gave her a reception at the
Town Hall. Ex.


A cheerful heart is the richest of all human
treasures; for even gold shines more brightly
in the smiles of the sun.
	
	There are three things which ought to be
considered before some things are spoken—the
manner, the time, and the place.
	
	We judge ourselves by what we feel capable
of doing, while others judge us by what we
have already done.


