DEAR EDITOR:
	I desire through the medium of your valuable
paper to gain some information that I very much
wish to have. I am preparing a record of those
who died while crossing the plains—from 1847 up
to the time of the building of the railroad—and
in order to have this complete I need to com-
municate with my sisters and friends throughout
the length and breadth of the Territory, for I
would that not one name, of those dear faithful
ones, should be left out or found missing from our
list, as I know they will not be from the Angels'
record.
	Therefore dear sisters and friends, readers of the
EXPONENT, I ask you individually to please send
me what information you may have in your pos-
session regarding this matter, for soon all personal
knowledge will pass into oblivion, and history
alone can tell the story.
	Others may write of the present, but unto me it
is given to labor for the dead, that blessed host
who have kept the faith, and whose works will fol-
low them.

	"And should we die before our journey's through,
			Happy day, all is well;
	We then are free from toil and labor too,
			With the just we shall dwell."

	It is in their behalf that I make this request and
I trust to have a prompt response, that I may be
able to accomplish all that is in my heart to do in
regard to this work, and I will endeavor to report


my progress from time to time until the work is
completed.
	I should like the date of birth and death, the
place of birth, and as near as possible the place of
burial, which side of the road, the north or the
south, the cause of the death, the company they
were in, the captain's name, and any incidents of
the journey that may be remembered.
	I would also like a similar report of all those
who died after leaving Nauvoo and while crossing
the State of Iowa up to Winter Quarters.
	And not forgetting those who slumber in the
bosom of the ocean, there to rest until the sea
gives up its dead—let all their names be enrolled
with those whose feet are established in the tops
of the mountains, who are still toiling to win the
goal that they have reached.
	It has been suggested that this would be a good
opportunity to also collect the names and dates of
the births that occurred on these memorable
journeys and see how many are still living and
are residents of Utah.
	And,dear Pilgrims of former days, when you are
searching in the archives of your memory no
doubt many and varied scenes will arise in your
minds,but I trust that with me, in your hearts you
can swell the chorus, "All is well; all is well,"
with Zion.
	All communications on the above subjects ad-
dressed to M. A. Winters, Pleasant Grove, Utah
County, Utah, will find a welcome greeting.
								M. A. W.


