vancement."
	The university of Bologna, which admitted
women as students and conferred upon them
degrees as early as the 13th century, elevated
them to professorships, taught them law,
philosophy, and anatomy.
	To the Roman civilization we owe a wonder-
ful development of law. The Roman code of
laws is today the basis of the jurisprudence of
the civilized world. We have only very little
of the survival of the Greek and Roman civili-
zation come down to us. The phenomenal
dark ages set in, and for a thousand years after
the life of the "Eternal City" was crushed out,
the world groped in ignorance and darkness,
and very little progress was made in any direc-
tion.
	Four great events of world-wide importance,
each following its predecessor, caused the
divine in man to assert itself, and there came
into the world a quickening spirit.
	These events have been mentioned as occur-


ring almost simultaneously—the revival of
classical learning, the invention of the art of
printing, the discovery of this continent and
the Reformation begun by Luther. During
the Elizabethan era the great ideas were born
which underlie our present civilization. With
the history of American independence we are
all more familiar,but the condition of women
in this country has been after all one long
struggle for education,opportunity and political
equality.
	In the early colonial days, provision was
made for boys’ schools, and Harvard College
was established; but girls were not included in
any of these privileges, and even in Massa-
chusetts, which boas s perhaps more than any
other state of its educational advantages, and
where the Pilgrims first landed, the town of
Northampton, now a famous seat of learning,
voted in 1788 “not to be at any expense for
schooling girls.”
	Later, in the town of Hatfield, an influential
citizen whose children were girls, appealed in
town-meeting for the privilege of sending them
to the public school which he helped to support
by his taxes. An indignant fellow townsman
sprang to his feet and exclaimed, “Hatfield
school she’s! never!” Yet it was Miss Smith of
Hatfield, one of the sex and probably one of
the girls contemptuously denied a common
school education, who afterwards founded and
endowed at Northampton a college for girls.
There was a bitter prejudice against educated
and literary women in the early days of our
American history, strange as it may seem. 
	Although school privileges were denied them,
their education proceeded through the very
logic of events, and we who live in Utah have
had a similar experience. In laying the
foundations of the new government all ques-
tions were discussed that touched human in-
terests, not only publicly but privately, from
the pulpit and around the fireside. Women
listened and took part in them, and yet when
Mary Woolstencraft wrote her famous book,“A
Vindication of the rights of women;” which
was published in London in 1790, it was un-
sparingly condemned in American circles.
Such thiugs prove that the world has always
stoned its prophets.
	To later times the more recent developments
through the noble efforts of such grand women
in the United States as Lucretia Mott, Lucy
Stone, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and our hon-
ored President, Susan B. Anthony, of the
National American W. S. A., whose anniver-
sary we celebrate today, we who live in this
Republic are greatly indebted for the privileges
of political liberty. In twenty-three states we
have school suffrage, in Kansas municipal
suffrage, and in Wyoming women enjoy equal
political rights with men.


