			OGDEN W. S. A.
	The regular monthly meeting of the Ogden
Woman's Suffrage Association was held in the
Fifth Ward Institute, April 26, 1892. A
goodly number of members present.
	Regular and miscellaneous business being
promptly disposed of, the president, Harriet
Brown, in an earnest and forcible manner ex-
pressed herself in favor of the enfranchisement
of woman. She should work to be set free
from oppression. Taxation, under which many
of her sex labored without representation, was
bondage, a species of despotism and slavery,
from which woman must be set free. The
equality of woman with man was not for a
special few, but designed to benefit womankind
in general. Mrs. Brown advised the reading
of the Woman’s Column,-the Woman’s Journal,
and other works treating on woman’s rights
and privileges.
	Mrs. Canfield, Mrs. Sarah Richards, Mrs. E.
Y. Stanford, Mrs. L.  B. Farrand, Mrs.  Jane
Richards, each in turn addressed the meeting.
Their speeches were to the effect that it was
woman’s duty as well as her right and privilege
to use her influence for good, and to bring her
ntelligence and talents to bear on all questions
affecting the social relations, the moral con-
dition of society, and the whole life and being
of the human race in every department thereof,
and as they apply to both sexes.. To do this
she must set herself industriously to work to
read up on all public questions, to inform her-
self on civil government and the Constitution
and laws of hej own country.
	An interesting select reading was given by
Mrs. L. B. Farr, also one,on the Constitution
of the United States by Mrs. E. Y. Stanford,
which were listened to with marked attention.
	The meeting closed with a unanimous vote
that each one present canvass her neighbor-
hood and bring two other ladies with her to
the next monthly meeting, to participate in the
work and be prepared to share in the good
time coming.
		LIZZIE M. STANFORD, Secretary.


Patience strengthens the spirit, sweetens the
temper, stifles anger, extinguishes envy, sub-
dues pride; it bridles the tongue, restrains the
hand, and tramples upon temptations.


