IN AND ABOUT SAN FRANCISCO.

	The National Editorial Association party ar-
rived in San Francisco Monday, May 23, accord-
ing to the programme published before starting
West on the excursion. Tuesday morning at
nine o’clock, nearly all the N. E. A. party with
a number of distinguished Californians went out
upon the bay in the steamer Ukiah. The ex-
cursion was arranged by the Examiner to give
the visitors an idea of the advantages of this great
City of the Pacific Coast. The boat put out from
the Tiburon ferry landing, Gov. Markham and
staff, Mr. and Mrs. George W. Childs, the Earl
and Countess of Meath, Dr. Alice B. Stockham
(who has just returned from a visit to Japan),
Examiner representatives, and other residents
of the City, among these were Mrs. Nellie B.
Eyster, President of the Pacific Coast Woman’s
Press Association, also of the active Committees
of that Association Miss Minna V. Lewis, Mrs.
Alice Carry Waterman and others. Miss Louise
E. Francis, editor and proprietor of the Castro-
ville Enterprise, the official organ of the P. C. W.
P. A. is quite young to manage and
edit a paper herself; she began at seventeen as a
contributor to the Santa Clara Valley, and was
afterwards connected with the San Jose Mercury;
she began as editor in Monterey, but soon moved
her paper to Castroville. Miss Mary Allen West,
editor of the Union Signal, is one of the dele-
gates of the Illinois Press Association; she is in-
tensely interested in the work of the W. C. T. U.
and is one of its ablest and most efficient champ-
ion s and organizers.
	On Monday evening a reception was tendered
her by the W. C. T. U. of San Francisco at the
headquarters of their Union, which was quite a
success. The handsome double parlors were
beautifully decorated with the most lovely flowers
of the season and trailing vines, the fragrance of
the roses and lilies filled the rooms. Mrs.Spencer,
the Cor. Sec. of the W. C. T. U., introduced most
of the guests, ladies and gentlemen, to Miss West
and others. Quite a number of the delegates
from the N. E. A. came in during the evening
though seemingly much fatigued with the journey.
Later in the evening Miss West responded to the
wishes of the Committee, in a brief address, giv-
ing a sort of sketch of the Temperance work in
foreign countries, more particularly mentioning
the Hawaiian Queen as having allied herself with
the work, and banishing from her table and en-
tertainments not only the wine and liquors but
disallowing the immodest dancing which had
formerly been one of the pleasures indulged in
and looked upon with favor by the late King and
court. She also referred to the work in South
Africa and the promise it gave of good results.
Mrs. Peak, President of the State W. C. T. U.,
made a few remarks upon the State work, and
Mrs. Skelton (a German lady) who had been

[Column 2]
traveling for some time, speaking generally three
times a day, spoke in a humorous vein. She was
introduced by some one with the comment, “the
woman who is never too tired to talk.” Mrs.
Nellie B. Eyster was the next speaker, afterwards
Miss Will, of Chicago, who is interested in the
Alliance work, and last on the impromptu pro-
gramme there was a recitation by Miss Mansfield
(a child about thirteen), “The Demon of Fire,”
illustrating the fiendish work of intemperance in
a very impressive manner.
	Dainty refreshments were served and after
more exchanges of welcomes and congratulations
the guests went their way, pleased with the
cordial greetings of those who had arranged this
happy meeting of people from a distance.
	This afternoon there is to be a reception for Dr.
Alice B. Stockham of Chicago and her daughter
Miss Cora Stockham, at the Palace Hotel, of
which we expect to give some particulars in a
later article. 
	This evening the N. E. A. Convention proper
will open in the Metropolitan Temple, when the
real work of the delegates will begin. As yet
one is not able to ascertain exactly what the
routine will be, the Press Association here being
as much at sea in regard to it as those else-
where.
	The programme for the Convention as thus far
arranged is as follows: Address, ex-President
E. W. Stephens. Address, Superintendent
Porter of the U. S. Census Bureau. Poem, Miss
Anna Cooper. “A non political View of the
Press in Relation to the Negro,” Colonel T.
Sambala Jones of Louisiana. “Cheapening our
Wares,” Hon. Matt. Parrott. “Electricity in the
Pressroom,” J. O. Moses. “Women in Journal-
ism,” Mrs. Sallie M. Moses. “The County Paper
from a Financial Standpoint,” W. H. Burrell.
‘‘Which Makes our Presidents, the Stump Orator
or the Newspaper?” R. M. Banks. Other topics
on which addresses will be delivered or papers
read are: “Circulation of Daily Papers in Interior
Towns and Cities.” “The Relative Influence of
the Metropolitan and Interior Newspapers.”
“The Home Weekly as an Educator,” “The
Practical Pressroom.” ,
	San Francisco, May 23, 1892.


