WIMODAUGHSIS LETTER.

	Washington is pre-eminently a city of wo-
men’s clubs. Here was first organized and
established the Woman’s National Press As-
sociation, of which Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood is
president.
	Mrs Lockwood is commissioner at large up-
on the Board of Lady Managers for the Colum-
bian Exposition, and was recently appointed
chairman of the Press Committee by Mrs. Pot-
ter Palmer. She has just been elected for the
second time Historian of the “Daughters of
the American Revolution,” of which Mrs.
Harrison is President. Her recently published
work, “Historic Homes of Washington,” is a
wonderful volume, filled with most thrilling
historic facts never before published. This,
with her earlier published works, has given her
an enviable standing as a talented, versatile
woman, and the Press women are naturally
proud of their leader.
	This club meets regularly for the discussion
and study of literary work. Short paragraphs
on pertinent topics are frequently a part of the
evening’s program. These are afterwards
edited by some members of the club, and pub-
lished in Washington papers. This organ-
ization is not composed of newspaper reporters,
who flock to this city during “the season,” but
almost entirely of women, who are editors of
papers, authors of books, regular contributors
to newspapers and magazines, and all-around
writers.
	Lectures by prominent men and women are
frequently given, and a series of journalistic
talks by eminent journalists is a part of the
writer's plan. Literary women all over the
United States are cordially welcomed to mem-
bership upon the presentation of their name,
endorsed by two members of the society, the
payment of $1.00 and the submission of several
specimens of their literary work to the Cre-
dential Committee.
	Pro Re Nata is another and exceedingly
interesting club, composed entirely of women,
and organized for the study of Parliamentary
Law and extempore speaking. At some future
date I will give an account of its work, but
space forbids a detailed account now.
	The District Suffrage Association is a live
organization and its objects need not be
specified. The Queen Isabelle Associational-
so conveys its mission in its name.
	The Woman’s Anthropological Association
is banded together for the study of the science
which treats of the physical and intellectual
properties of man,—in a word—“human
physiology.”
	The Woman’s Collegiate Alumnae brings
together the college graduates and is in it-
self “a feast of reason.”
	But it remains for “Wimodaughsis” to bring
together “all classes and conditions of wo-
men,” and furnish them headquarters where
women can meet socially, educationally, for
business, or in clubs, where strangers and
friends may come for information in every
branch of women’s work, where a library is
gathering together women’s books, papers and
magazines, and where the pictures and busts
of those prominent in the history of reform
may be preserved.
	Rev. Anna H. Shaw, the eloquent and
popular lecturer, is its president, and its earn-
est officers and members are doing all in their
power to dispose of the 40,000 shares of stock
which it is incorporated to sell at $5.00 a share,
thus enabling the women of the United States
to own National Headquarters.
				ELLA M. S. MARBLE,
						Financial Agent.
—Womankind.


If you want to feel right, do right.


