[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: TOKERVILLE, KANE Co., March 2, 1877. | Author: request of our worthy president Mrs]

	TOKERVILLE, KANE Co., March 2, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our worthy president Mrs.
Elizabeth Kleinman, I address you to in-
form our co-laborers in the kingdom of God
that we are trying to honor our calling as a
Relief Society and do all in our power to
assist the needy and comfort the afflicted
either by word or deed. General good
health prevails here, with the exception of
a few bad colds, which are incidental to this
season of the year.
	We were called to part with one of our
most respected sisters last August, Mrs.
Annie Jackson; she was a dutiful member
in the Society and served as Secretary as
long as her health would permit. She was
greatly esteemed by all who knew her.
	We read the reports of the different or-
ganizations in the settlements STORING
GRAIN, but we have none to store up as
our facilities here do not admit of its pro-
duction; we depend entirely on the north-
ern part of the Territory for breadstuff.
	I am sorry to say we have no Young La-
dies Retrenchment Association organized
yet, but we live in hopes that we may have
ere long. The St. George Temple is now
finished for which we should all feel very
thankful; there are many people going forth
to receive their blessings, which fills our
hearts with joy and gratitude. Our Society
made about forty yards of carpet for the
Temple. Our financial affairs are as follows:
we have a twenty-five dollar share in the
Washington factory, and a thirty dollar
share in this Co-op Store; carpet and cush-
ions which we donated to the meeting house
valued at eight dollars and twenty-five
cents; donated to a needy family, a quilt
valued at seven dollars; to the St. George
Temple twenty-nine dollars; to the Wash-
ington factory, eight dollars and forty
cents; sundries on hand, sixty-nine dollars
and thirty cents; cash on hand, four dollars
and fifty cents.
	We have had refreshing rains lately and
the people are planting their gardens; the
trees are also in bloom.
	Praying for the prosperity of our breth-
ren and sisters in this Latter-day work, I
remain yours etc.
