[Vol21 | May 1934 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: A Working Plan]

IN this era of plans and plans for helping other folks, three stakes in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have an unusually efficient "way out" for the dependent. These are Utah Stake, Kolob Stake, and Maricopa Stake.

The objective of the work is to build the morale of the needy, to make them self-supporting, by giving them temporary aid and furnishing them with employment if possible.

The plan has all the advantages of ordinary charity work; with none of its disadvantages.

The work in Utah Stake is under the direction of President T. N. Taylor and Sister Achsa E. Paxman, president of the Utah stake Relief Society. Under Mrs. Paxman is a corps of enthusiastic workers, who, through their desire to help, have eliminated nearly all the overhead cost usually necessary to such an organization.

The Community Welfare organization takes the place of the regular Relief Society charity work in the wards except that it is centralized as a stake institution. In a sense, its effects are more far-reaching, for it serves both members and non-members of the church.

One would never dream, when visiting the little office in the Utah Stake Administration building with its sole occupant, Mrs. Emily Nielsen, distributor of help, that such a complete work is being carried on. Mrs. Nielsen also takes care of the Burial Clothes and this department practically pays the expenses of the Community Welfare organization. Last year, $5,600 was distributed from the office to those in need in Utah Stake, however, this amount included some funds distributed for the county. In the last seven years an average of sixty families a month have been either completely or partially taken care of by the Community Welfare. Some of these cases have needed only temporary aid, as the temporarily unemployed and the seasonally unemployed; while others have required permanent help—orphans, children without parents, or children with disabled parents.

THE money for these enterprises is obtained from voluntary contributions from members of the stake. The stake stages a drive for funds every six months, and each ward is assessed a certain amount, the amount being determined by the membership and their ability to pay. These funds are sent to the Community office so that every needy family in the stake is uniformly cared for. This provides for a standard distribution among all the wards. Bishops and Relief Society Presidents cooperate in all the plans of this Community Welfare organization. The Community Welfare work is very well organized.

EVERY ward in the stake has a Social Welfare Aid who makes investigations. A complete record of their findings is made and filed at the central office. This includes the names of those in the family who are capable of helping to support
