[Vol21 | May 1934 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: teachers' topic]
teachers' topics. The sisters like to know that they are doing things as they are at home. They appreciate this, and not only have the visits increased, but the teachers have grown more efficient.
Our missionaries, your sons and daughters, are magnified in their callings as missionaries. Last year we wanted the different associations to have on hand a quilt, and so I suggested to them that each one of them make a quilt. They obtained some pieces and made an old-fashioned patch-work quilt. In some of my travels through the mission I asked the missionaries if the sisters knew how to make a quilt. I doubted if any of them knew how to put it on the frame, and one missionary, a young man, said, "I know how, I helped my mother. We will not have any difficulty here because I know how to put the quilt on the frame." We went back again a little later, and I was surprised to find that he, with the aid of the sisters, had made more than one quilt. We have in another district a young man who is very nervous and bashful, and he does not have a mother to teach him how to make a quilt, but he, too, knew how to do it. We have had other missionaries in the field who have taught the sisters how to darn. I want to tell you that we had one missionary who darned his socks so well that I was afraid to darn them. These missionaries have been truly sons and daughters to me, and I wonder sometimes if I could feel any different for children of my own than I do for these missionaries. We have had the joys and sorrows of a family. They come to the mission mother as they would go to their own mother, and I have tried in my weak way to make my home a true home to them, a home that they could come into no matter where they labored, when they came to Los Angeles.
I bring to you here greetings from the Mexican sisters, and also the brethren, because they are all anxious for your welfare, and I know you are anxious for theirs. We are all brothers and sisters in the Gospel of Christ, and whether they speak a different language, whether their complexion is different from ours, it does not make any difference, they are trying to live the Gospel.
COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN
IN my remarks I desire to make a few observations regarding some phases of our present-day problems and to remind ourselves that women can be constructive helpers in a crisis as well as in ordinary times. There has probably never before been a time when so many of the people of this country have needed help, not only material help, but help in the way of encouragement and sympathy, in the way of moral support, in the way of spiritual comfort. Of course the greatest help and comfort that can come to anyone in any kind of distress is faith in Divine Providence—faith in God, whom we believe, will surely protect and help those who love and serve Him and put their trust in Him. This is our conviction at the outset and all the way through. The Lord says, "Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest." So we do have this great source of comfort always. However, this does not mean that we should do nothing ourselves. As Latter-day Saints know, we have always been taught that the Lord helps those who help themselves, that faith without works is dead. And so we are committed to the idea of work and service as well as faith.
It is no wonder that people today are worried and discouraged. Taxes are unpaid; homes and farms are mortgaged or have already been lost; many have been without regular work for several years; savings have been used up; insurance policies have lapsed; debts have accumulated. The world itself is in a state of uncertainty and confusion. Some nations are disturbed politically and others are disorganized economically. Some are upset religiously, others are upset emotionally, and all are more or less low in morale. In our own country the government is confronted with so many complicated problems that it becomes the most serious condition it has ever known. To recount these conditions may savor of gloom and pessimism, but the thinking people of the nation feel that every citizen should know for himself conditions as they actually are and should inform himself to the best of his ability regarding possible means of recovery.
There are those who refuse to be serious over present-day conditions, feeling that somehow, some way, we will come out without any special effort on the part of anyone, that things will right themselves. There are others who are so overwhelmed with gloom and discouragement that they can see no way out. These are both extreme positions to take. There is nothing helpful nor constructive in living in a fool's paradise, nor on the other hand, in giving up hopelessly to discouragement and despair. The wisest course is to take a middle-ground position, and the majority of the American people today are following this plan, and while trying hard to understand and to be helpful, and to make adjustments, they are waiting patiently though anxiously, and are supporting the government loyally in the heroic efforts it is making in untrodden paths to correct economic and social evils and to restore opportunity and security.
