[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 626 | Lesson | Homemaking Christmas Traditions Celestia | J. Taylor]
(Homemaking Discussion, Relief Society Magazine, September 1967.) II. We can establish pre-Christmas traditions. A. In some localities with special permission we can gather our own greens and Christmas tree. (Pine cones, nuts, pods, and seeds can be gathered for wreaths and other decorations, summer or winter.) B. Children as well as adults can make their own Christmas cards and tags. C. Special baking projects can be shared by grown-ups and children. 1. A gingerbread house is a favorite project and a happy tradition. 2. Making Christmas cookies with children assisting is fun. (Using animal and other varieties of cookie cutters) 3. A candy-making day is fun for young and old. (Pulling candy, wrapping caramels, boxing, etc.) 4. Breads and goodies can be taken to sick and needy —a worthwhile tradition. D. Group caroling of family alone or with neighbors and friends is a favorite tradition: 1. In the home. 2. Around the neighborhood. 3. To the sick and homebound. E. Pre-Christmas open house for family and friends can be simple and inviting. F. Decorating the house and tree can be shared by the family. (A traditional procedure is usually established within each family.) What are some basic procedures upon which we can establish our Christmas traditions? I. Making Christmas sacrament meetLesson Department ing attendance together a_ special family part of the celebration of the season. II. Annual reading of the Nativity from the Bible. (Some like to read Dickens' "Christmas Carol," or other literature from one's own country.) III. Singing of traditional carols and Christmas songs. IV. Serving of traditional Christmas meals. A. Christmas family dinner: 1. On Christmas Eve. (This relieves Mother of cooking on Christmas Day and is traditional in many families. ) 2. On Christmas Day. (It is traditional with some for visiting grown-up families to share in preparation and expense. ) B. Christmas Brunch. (When dinner is on Christmas Eve, a brunch is a happy solution on Christmas morning. The afternoon is then free for visiting. V. Opening and presenting of gifts. (Orderly rotation in opening gifts prolongs the pleasure and reduces the confusion.) VI. Visiting with family, neighbors, and friends. VII. Enjoying games and fireside conversation. CONCLUSION Christmas traditions can be beautiful and rewarding. Naturally, each family will be influenced by its own heritage, the customs of its own country, the traditional celebration of the season of its own people, and its own personalities in establishing its traditional procedures, and it is each family's opportunity and privilege to make the kind of Christmas which will be the happiest and most satisfying to its own members. 

627 August 1968