[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 624 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message "Let Every Man Esteem His Brother As Himself" Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 2—''Let Every Man Esteem His Brother As Himself" (D&C 38:24, 25.) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: To realize that there is a universal need to be esteemed and to esteem. In the summer of 1966 a young Salt Lake teenager sat in a garden talking to new-found friends. Several of his teeth were missing. His clothes were well-worn, and his shoes were patched. Suddenly his face was radiant as he said, "I never knew before this summer that there was any hope for me." He had lived with a deepening sense of failure and lack of selfesteem until someone had taken the time and effort to help him. He had grown up certain that he was a "nobody," uncared for, and that a life of poverty and low esteem was to be his. Wherever men and women gather together, they establish values that give prestige and esteem to some and not to others. They rank each other on some scale indicating degrees of worth. Jesus was born into a family that did not rank high on the 624 social-economic scale. In his mortal life, he was well aware of the problems created by _ poverty, wealth, rank, and distinction. Again and again he taught his disciples of another kingdom of values. "I am among you as he that serveth." (Luke 22:27.) When his disciples contended for position, Jesus said, "... They that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you..." (Matthew 20:25-26.) Jesus continued. "... Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister..." (Matthew 20:26-28.) When the Church was less than a year old, at a conference held in the home of Peter Whitmer, the saints were taught by revelation, "And let every man esteem his brother as himself..." (D&C 38:24.) So important is this truth that the Lord reiterated it, "And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself." (D&C 38:25.) Half a year before, the Lord had said, "... The worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D&C 18:10.) Indeed, hadn't he graphically demonstrated this when he suffered and died agonizingly for them—for each man and woman born on this earth? Analysts of human nature attribute many of our present day ills to a lack of self-respect and self-worth, which may not have Lesson Department been implanted in a child by his family and developed by his friends as he grows older. All through life there is need to be esteemed by others. All men and women are our brothers and sisters, sent to earth to work out their salvation, each beset by problems, each in need of help and compassion. We are carrying out God's plan when we esteem them and help them feel by words and actions that they can achieve, that they are of worth, and that we are all children of God. When we live this commandment of God, esteem returns to us as a gift from those we esteem. 4g DEW-SWEET INTERIM Morning wears cool, crisp fabric, beauty spun. Night has stored her velvet folds of blue Behind diminishing stars, and shadows strew The lawn with emerald lace and prismed sun. Morning hears lark song in the new-bloomed sky And nimble wind on lengthening willow limb; The music of this dew-sweet interim Will keep me singing after sun is high! Morning sees hill mist greening. Darkness gone, My tasks are roses blooming bright among A dozen blue-white hours, garland strung. Surely such loveliness, trandscending dawn, Will thread a melody through curves of care And fashion robes of joy for heart to wear. \ —Maxine R.
