[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 611 | General Feature | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities]

An interesting feature is that the book contains a picture of every member of Relief Society in the year she was admitted to membership."' 

611 August 1968

 Roy Stake (Utah) Relief Society ''Talent Boutique' April 25, 1968 Right: Marilyn Garner, homemaking leader, Roy Stake Relief Society, displaying paintings; left: Allene George, social relations class leader, displaying afghans and quilts. Kathleen Dunbar, President, Roy Stake Relief Society, reports: '' 'Talent Boutique' was the theme of a program held in our stake recently. Every sister in the stake was given an opportunity to display one of her talents in handiwork, creative art, canning, pottery, writing, etc. Over 100 items of clothing made by the sisters were modeled in a fashion show narrated by Ruby Frances, stake cultural refinement class leader. "Fifty-six Singing Mothers, directed by stake chorister Eileen Reimschussel and accompanied by June Rich, stake organist, performed at various interludes during the program. "Light refreshments were served to 350 guests. The 'Talent Boutique' was termed one of the most outstanding activities ever held in the stake, both by participants and those in attendance." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 25, 1968 Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The visiting teachers of Box Elder Stake were honored at a special program recently. "Thelma Monson, stake visiting teacher message leader, gave special recognition and presented gifts to the youngest visiting teacher and the one with the longest service, from each ward. "Those honored for having served long years were: Mabel Holland, Aurilla Hansen, Vera Austin, Marguerite Fishburn, Aleda Nicholas, Evelyn Johnson, and Geneva Olsen. "Youngest visiting teachers were: Leora Baron, Pauline Rushton, Corinie Thorson, Teddy Lou Call, Sherry Goldsberry, Marilyn Cefalo, and Adrianna Fosgren.. "The program consisted of an inspirational narrative, written and presented by Renie Littlewood, stake cultural refinement class leader, with musical numbers appropriately arranged by Ethel Poulter, stake chorister and Pat Davies, stake organist. Violin music, a ladies trio, and the Singing Mothers from the Brigham Second Ward performed. "A special feature was the beautiful display of sixteen tables of handwork and hobbies of the visiting teachers."' Tooele Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present 'Spirit of Spring"' April 26, 1968 Seated at left, front: Alice Walton and Gayle Beane, narrators. Standing, second from left, front row: Oneda Steadman, stake chorister. Seated at organ: Louise Fitzwater, stake organist. Third row, fifth from feft: Mildred Anderson, Second Counselor. Back row, fourth and fifth from right: Joyce Ludwig, President; Beth Atkin, First Counselor. Sister Ludwig reports: '' 'Spirit of Spring' was the theme for the concert presented by the Tooele Stake Singing Mothers. Numbers were presented by the combined stake chorus, and by the individual ward choruses, under direction of their respective leaders. Members of the various wards could be identified by the color of the paper corsages they made and wore. "Signe Hale, a member of the Utah Valley Symphony orchestra, performed special numbers on the violin as guest artist. "Following the concert, bazaar items were sold and refreshments were served in the cultural hall.'' 612 " Ss wy ba a Pom August 1968 Burley Stake (Idaho) Holds ''All Seasons Fair"' March 27, 1968 From left: Pearl Lee, spiritual living class leader, Burley Stake Relief Society; Emma Krieger, homemaking leader and general chairman for the fair, pictured at Easter display. LaVerne D. Darrington, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our 'All Seasons Fair' featured foods, decorations, and handwork displays for all seasons and major holidays throughout the year. There were also workshops in gold leafing, fabric shoe covering, velour, and form-a-film flower making. "The impressive displays included quilting, oil painting, and many other crafts. Free recipes and samples of food were distributed from various booths. Two fashion shows, featuring Relief Society sisters modeling clothing they had made, were held in the afternoon. "The stake Singing Mothers chorus was well received. They sang several numbers between fashion shows. A nursery was provided for the convenience of mothers with small children. "Excellent advertising by the local newspaper and radio stations helped to attract over 1,200 women to the event, and it bound the ten wards and the Spanish branch closer together." Central Atlantic States Mission, Forest City Branch Representative of New Relief Societies Left to right, Forest City Branch Relief Society officers: Frances Chapman, Secretary-Treasurer; Alice Timmonds, First Counselor; Ava J. Roberts, President; Retha Simmons, Second Counselor. Winnifred Ferre, Supervisor, Central Atlantic States Mission, Relief Society, reports: "This little branch is just newly organized. They held their first Relief Society meeting in January, 1968, and their bazaar was May 3, 1968. The first meeting had nine in attendance; average attendance is now fourteen. "Since the opening of Relief Society, these sisters have completed 132 bazaar items. It is a joy to see them respond to the work of Relief Society and receive the blessings therefrom. "This is representative of branches through the mission, as this is the fifth Relief Society organized in the past three years."' Boise Stake (Idaho) Visiting Teacher Convention ''To Serve With Love" March 27, 1968 Front row, left to right: Edith Eldredge; Isabelle Thornton; Myrtle Arthur; Caroline Thurber. Back row, left to right: Mary Bennett; Elizabeth Winn; Pearl Braden; Chloe Mitchell. Lucille M. Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: ''This picture represents 658 hours of purposeful living and countless hours of loving service. These sisters were specially honored at our visiting teacher convention for their long years of service. The theme for the event was 'To Serve With Love.' "Each ward, under direction of the visiting teacher message leader, presented a short sketch based on the monthly messages. We were delighted with the talents and cleverness of the participants. "The stake Singing Mothers chorus sang three songs, and a luncheon was served. There were 246 present, and the Second Ward received the attendance award, a copy of History of Relief Society." 

614 August 1968

 Sandy East Stake (Utah) Sandy Sixth Ward Presents Mothers And Daughters Program May 3, 1968 Sandy Sixth Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: Norma Pullan, Second Counselor; Lucile J. Asay, President; Shirley Timothy, First Counselor. Arleene H. Walters, President, Sandy East Stake Relief Society, reports: '' 'Relief Society—A Many Splendored Thing,' was the theme for the mothers and daughters program presented in honor of Mother's Day in the Sandy Sixth Ward. A luncheon was followed by a bazaar featuring gift items for Mother's Day. "Invitations were sent to each sister in the ward. The decorations followed an oriental theme. Carnation corsages were presented to the officers, class leaders, and committee chairmen for the program, in appreciation of the devoted work they gave." Salmon River Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Initiates Home Nursing Summer Program Left to right: Katheryne Stokes, nursing instructor; Florence Mathews, homemaking leader, Salmon River Stake Relief Society, and registered nurse; young patients: Cynthia Young; Bing Young; Beulah Matley, nursing instructor; Merlene Peterson, Homemaking Counselor. Barbara W. Young, President, Salmon River Stake Relief Society, reports: ''During the summer months, the homemaking department of our stake is presenting classes on home nursing techniques designed to help wives and mothers be more alert to the symptoms of illness and to learn ways to ease the problems and burdens of caring for an ill person within the home. "They also will be instructed in general rules of first aid, mouth to mouth resuscitation, and when to apply artificial breathing which could save a life. "There will also be instructions for care of the aged person; for changing positions for the patient's comfort; and rehabilitation for the paralyzed or stroke patient. "The home nursing program has been received with much enthusiasm. The efforts of our homemaking department to publicize the course and create interest have been outstanding. We have had coverage in the local newspaper, and from other wards there have been outstanding promotion efforts." Palo Alto Stake (California), Cupertino Ward Relief Society Birthday Party March 1968 Front row, at left: Coleen Carter, director; fourth from left, Frances Christensen, Secretary-Treasurer; Alma Brew, First Counselor; eighth from left, Lila Bates, President; Lynn Erickson, author. Second row, second from left: Beth Boyer, Second Counselor; on pedestal, Julia Brown, ''Woman of the Year;'' sixth from left, Cathy Finch, cultural refinement class leader; Betsy Allen, accompanist. Alicia Crofts, former president, Palo Alto Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Cupertino Ward celebrated the birthday of Relief Society by selecting a 'Woman of the Year.' "Through narration and song, a pageant depicting a search for the Relief Society Woman of the Year was conducted. They were searching for a woman who embodied all of Relief Society's ideals. Julia Brown was selected as this woman. "tt was a unique and delightful program, complete with a well-prepared luncheon. "Alice Jorgenson is the new president of Palo Alto Stake Relief Society." 616 ¥ North Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Concert, ''God's Gifts,'' March 13, 1968 Norma H. Tolman, President, North Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers, under the direction of Evelyn Crane, stake chorister, and accompanied by Alice Donat, stake organist, presented a lovely spring concert, themed, 'God's Gifts.' "Each ward contributed one number, and the combined choruses sang four specially prepared numbers. The individual ward choristers and organists prepared and sang a special number, 'God Is Ever Beside Me.' "Sixty-one sisters participated. We were gratified by the support of the ward presidencies and the stake board members in making this event successful."' ebb a ABA 8 Z sess pegea se" a Le OP pmee — [ a, ace all,. " ~ Billings Stake (Montana) Singing Mothers Present ''Let All My Life Be Music" May 11, 1968 Front row, left to right: Jean M. Fletcher, conductor; Vicky J. Furness, accompanist. Second row, at left: Mary Jo Johnson, narrator; third from left: Claudia H. Roylance, First Counselor, Billings Stake Relief Society; fourth: Mildred M. Wilson, Secretary-Treasurer; ninth: Marjorie M. Dixon, President. Sister Dixon reports: ''The theme for our Singing Mothers concert was 'Let All My Life Be Music.' Eight musical numbers were sung, interspersed with narration. There was an enthusiastic audience in attendance."