[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 628 | Lesson | Social Relations The Questions Every Woman Asks | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 2—The Questions Every Woman Asks Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out that the questions which every thoughtful woman asks regarding her responsibilities and destiny are answered in the gospel Lesson Follow-up A brief report by a class member (3-5 minutes) appraising the "Profiles Remembered" of President J. Reuben Clark Jr., and pointing out two or three which she hopes to emulate in her home situation. INTRODUCTION Several lessons in Unit I of the 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual deal with the premortal existence of man and with the personality of God. With scholarly documentation, President Clark gives ample evidence that we existed before we came to earth, and that we shall continue to live beyond our mortal death. The premortal life is known as the "first estate." The mortality in which we now find ourselves is called the "second estate" and will be followed by a third period or postmortal existence, sometimes spoken of as eternity. The Bible states plainly that man was created in the image of God and direct revelation confirms the scriptural statements. Equally supported by scripture 628 of Jesus Christ. And direct revelation is the truth that Jesus the Christ dwelt with his Father in a premortal existence and that we, also, as spirit children of the Father lived before we were born into this life. The faith of the Latter-day Saint woman is based upon an understanding of these major gospel truths. This lesson is concerned with human behavior, and, therefore, must be channeled in the direction of everyday living to the innumerable tasks of which our human days are made. Yet, into and throughout the fabric of everyday activities, the threads of faith, of belief or unbelief, are inseparably woven. This lesson, therefore, will consider the doctrine, briefly, and will present for discussion, areas where belief or unbelief may materially influence a woman's everyday life. THE QUESTIONS EVERY WOMAN ASKS At some point along the road of lhfe—at some contemplative or perplexing moment—every thoughtful woman may be led to ask, "Why am I here? What came before? What will happen to me after death has closed the door of my mortal life?" In Lesson 2 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, President Clark points out that such questions are natural to the questioning mind of all normal individuals. From his own words we quote: Now God has placed in every man's heart a divine spark, which never wholly goes out; it may grow dim, it may become hidden, almost smothered by the ashes of transgression; but the spark still lives and glows and can be fanned into flame by faith, if the heart is touched.... Behind these questions lies the deeper one—is there a purpose underlying our mortal lives; are we here on earth by chance, nonexistent before our birth, with an aimless existence here, and a void, an endless night of oblivion after death? Every fibre of being of the normal man cries out against such an existence without purpose. Man in all stages of intellectual development, from the savage in the forest to the most learned and enlightened toiler in the laboratory, has during all history rebelled against such a destiny, and God has supported him in rebellion by revealing through Holy Writ as much of the great underlying purposes of life as man's finite mind can grasp. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, 1950 ed., Deseret Book Co., Chapter VI, pp. 22-23; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 2.) Blessed beyond words is the Latter-day Saint woman who accepts the gospel of Christ and who, through faith, translates its teachings into her daily life. Blessed and fortunate indeed. Not all women are so fortunate. Some have not as yet heard the gospel teachings. Others, today and through the ages, have turned deaf ears to the words of truth. As a result, there have been and are today, innumerable Lesson Department false teachings, fallacious ideas concerning the purpose of life, the nature of God and the destiny of his children. Such ideas, being untrue, cannot answer the questions every woman may ask: "Where from? Why here? Whence do I go?" FOUR WHO SPEAK Following are comments of four women who illustrate some of the many current and varying attitudes and beliefs relative to the foregoing questions. They may present, through discussion, a graphic and contrasting picture of how a woman's religious beliefs may influence her daily life. First Woman I am an atheist. I do not believe there is a God. I do not believe we lived before this mortal life and do not believe we shall exist beyond death. I believe this life is all there is. Second Woman I, also, am an atheist. In my country we are taught that there is no God. We believe only in the objectives of the State. Everything we do is with the success of the State in mind. There are no moralities except those which affect the State. I do not lie, if what I say is to further the ideology of that State. Third Woman I am a Christian so, of course, I believe in Jesus Christ. I believe that he lived upon the earth, was crucified and resurrected. I believe that there will be a resurrection for only the just, and some kind of existence after death. I do not believe, however, that we lived before this life. I believe that God is a spiritual essence of infinite power and goodness but that he does not have a body. Fourth Woman I, also, am a Chnistian, so also believe in Jesus Christ. I believe, as did Simon Peter who answered the questioning Jesus, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." 

629 August 1968

 (Matt. 16:16.) I believe that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is the Savior of mankind and that through his redeeming sacrifice all mankind, not a designated number, but all individuals who have lived, who now live, and who yet shall live, will be resurrected. I believe that all who are born into' this life are spirit children of God the Father and therefore lived as individual entities before they were born into this life. I, also, believe in a personal God who has a tangible body, since man was created in his image. I, also, believe in a very definite hereafter where obedience to divine laws will allow us to progress eternally. I believe that through obedience to certain divine requirements the family relationship will continue forever. DOES IT MATTER? We ask the question—"Do our religious beliefs really matter?" Our affirmative answer is—"They matter and they matter very much." What we believe is fundamental to what we say, how we act, and may influence our attitude in all human relationships. Class Involvement Suggestion Indicate diversities of opinions of women who do not belong to the Church, and those who do. Converts from other churches may state differences in their own beliefs since they were converted. (Introduce all four women to the class members that they may become aware of the various religious beliefs listed. Focus the discussion on beliefs of woman number 4, and the questions following, for they concern all Latterday Saint women. Discuss others very briefly.) First Woman Were you this woman, what would you think? Reread the beliefs of the First Woman and discuss, briefly, the following questions: 1. What might be the overall life objective of this woman who does not believe in God? For what immediate goals is she likely to strive? 3. What might her attitude be toto 630 ward her children? Her husband? 4. Not believing in God or an eternity, from what would she expect to derive comfort in periods of trouble or when a loved one dies? Second Woman Reread the beliefs of the Second Woman. Discuss briefly: 1. How might this woman's lack of belief in God and her complete dedication to the State affect her loyalty to other affiliations? 2. How might it affect her attitude toward (a) free agency? (b) toward personal initiative? 3. How might it affect her feeling of personal security? 4. How might having no faith in God affect her faith in people generally? 5. If to speak an untruth be considered a moral act (where it furthers the purposes of the State), what might this attitude have on her morals in general? Third Woman Reread beliefs of Third Woman and discuss briefly the following: 1. How might this woman's faith in a spiritual essence rather than in a personal God influence the type of prayer she would offer? 2. Since she does not believe in a specific hereafter, what kind of divine comfort might she expect to receive at times of death? 3. How should she, or could she, reconcile her belief that only part of humanity will be resurrected, with the law of divine justice and the atonement of Christ? Fourth Woman The Fourth Woman _ obviously presents the religious beliefs of the Latter-day Saint. Reread her beliefs and identifying with her, ask yourself: 1. How does my belief in a personal God influence my life objective? What is my prime objective? 2. How does my belief in the resurrection of all humanity help me to understand the mission of the Savior and his love for ad/ men? 3. How does my belief in eternal progression affect (a) my activities today? (b) tomorrow? (c) my life objective? 4. What responsibility does my belief that the family may continue into eternity place upon me (a) as a mother? (b) as a child in the family? ONLY IN THE GOSPEL OF CHRIST It is evident that the questions every Latter-day Saint woman asks as to origin and destiny are answered fully only in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Its teachings replace vagueness with clarity, futility with hope and eternal motivation. Not only do these teachings give long range objectives, they give specific guidance and incentives for today. SUMMARY The gospel of Jesus Christ embraces all truth; therefore, the questions which every woman may ask relative to the purposes of life and her own responsibilities, are answered _ therein. Through faith and study, through obedience and prayer, Latter-day Saint women may recognize the truth, and hearing the answers, mold their lives for good. Not all women, however, listen Lesson Department for the answers; or, hearing, do not recognize them as truth. President Clark's words are relevant to this idea. Referring to the occasion when Jesus, prior to the crucifixion, prayed:... Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour. Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again. (John 12:27-28.) Some of the people hearing the voice thought it thundered; others thought an angel spoke. As then, so now, men understand not the heavenly voices that come unto them. Some hear only the thunders of «the air—the natural things of earth; others believe they hear angels, but do not understand the message; a few get the words themselves, the message, and hearken, so gaining wisdom and inspiration. This, we must all come to on our way to immortality and eternal life. (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, lesson 2.) FOR HOME DOING Appreciate the blessing of being the Fourth Woman, whose religious beliefs answer with satisfaction, the major questions of life. Select one area of the lesson for effort in self-improvement. (— INTERVAL Today I saw him sitting in the sun, His well-worn hat pulled down to shade his eyes, His shoulders bowed through years of endless toil To wrest a meager living from the soil. With trembling hands grasping a battered cane, He waits until the summer comes again. —Elena Hassell Stanley > yy, 

631 August 1968