[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 572 | Special Feature | Lady On Survival Marie | Call Webb]
—Caroline E yring Miner 571 Survival © x So Y <2 ay OAS Marie Call Webb # The summer ranger in the Dog Valley region of the Toiyabee National Forest lowered his powerful binoculars to wipe the lenses. Adjusting the focus, he turned once more toward a clump of tall incense cedars. "She's there, all right," he muttered to himself. "But I just don't believe it." He dropped the glasses into a leather case strapped to his belt. "Better get a closer look at what's-her-name down there." His easy woodsman's lope carried him quickly down over the rough terrain. His goal, a camp of sorts. His first sight of it puzzled him. Its occupant, a woman, moved about, apparently getting lunch. She wandered first one 572 way, then another, tasting; then she would stop to count her pulse. Count her pulse? His long legs fairly leaped the distance between them. "Lady, what on earth are you doing?" he demanded. She faced him with a gasp. Then, seeing the forest green of his ranger's uniform, she smiled. "My goodness, young man, I didn't hear you coming. Are you part Indian? I guess not, with those blue eyes. What am I doing? I'm counting my pulse." "But why? What are you doing here? This is National Forest— restricted area. Who are you? Who's with you? You sick? You don't look it. So why are you counting your pulse?" He stopped because the lady was laughing at him. "I'm Doris Jackson, young man. And I have a permit to be here." She lifted a slip of paper from a pouch at her waist and handed it to him. "See. And ['m all alone. Oh, yes, the pulse. My survival manual says to chew and swallow tiny bits of vegetation, Lady on Survival if ''m not sure what it is. If my pulse doesn't go up, it's good to eat." "And if your pulse goes up?" He looked skeptical. "Then I put my finger down my throat, lose what I've swallowed, and try something else." "Well!" He looked down at her —all five-feet-two of her. From "T love to cook over a campfire. The food thus prepared is not elegant, but it is tasty, hot, and nourishing. A frying pan may be placed over two flat rocks, with glowing wood chips beneath." 

573 August 1968

 the saucy white sailor's hat on the back of her closely cropped graying hair, to her jeans and thicksoled, high-topped boots, she looked every inch a plump little grandmother with an engaging grin. "Will you stay to lunch?" she asked, with a wide sweep of her arm. "I guess not, Mrs. Jackson. I'm used to roughing it, but raw leaves? You better tell me about it." "Do you mind if I get on with my meal while we talk? I'm headed for that patch of yarrow up the draw. Thought I would try yarrow-root pancakes for supper." "Yarrow-root pancakes? I'm forest ranger Tom Mickelson. Go on, Mrs. Jackson, you'd better tell me what makes you tick. The boys at the station will never believe this." Doris Linabery Jackson is a fifty-five-year-old widow, living in Provo, Utah, working at the Brigham Young University press. A convert to the Church in 1954, she shares her home with her eighteen-year-old son, LeeRoi, and her friend, Zarra Holman Pefley. Asked to test survival techniques for the Provo Stake camp program, she first enrolled in Larry Dean Olsen's survival course, which is offered by the Department of Special Courses at the Brigham Young University. Then because, as a child, she had been taken into the Sierra Nevada Mountains as her father's hunting and fishing companion, she chose that area to try out, alone, the survival techniques she had studied. Could a woman follow the program, live entirely off the land 574 for a week, and come out healthy and in good spirits? In the first week of June 1965, Doris was driven into the Dog Valley area thirteen miles west of Reno, Nevada, by Sister Pefley. They hiked up an old wash to a stand of tall conifers, then, chopping down and trimming five saplings, lashed the first between two of the tallest trees. Next they leaned two from the ends of the first to the ground, which sloped upward behind the trees. Placing the remaining two across the angled branches, they wove pine boughs in and out among the three horizontal poles. Doris dug a shallow trench between the lean-to and the slope, and her bedroom was ready. "I wanted that trench," says Doris, "just in case it rained. I had no intention of being washed out of bed and down the mountain in the middle of the night." Doris and Zarra laid a square of heavy plastic under the lean-to and unrolled their sleeping bags. Zarra had insisted on helping with the shelter and staying the night to assist the experiment to a good start. Both women love the out-of-doors. "As we said our prayers that night," recalls Doris, "we felt very close to our Heavenly Father under his beautiful sky. My father taught me the names of many of the constellations, and those old friends seemed very near." Sunrise found Zarra on her way to Reno and breakfast. Doris watched the dusty blue car bump and twist its way down the narrow, winding fire warden's trail. When it dropped out of sight over the brow of the rocky talus slope, she followed its dust cloud rising and thinning, and, finally, dissipating in the updraft. « "It was the silence," says Doris, "that made me realize just how alone I actually was, when Sister Pefley disappeared over that slope. I said to myself, out loud, mind you, 'Jackson, you must be out of your tree!'" "That did it. I hurried back to the site and set up the rest of my camp. Keeping busy is the essence of survival. First, I gathered some big hard rocks and built me a keyhole fireplace, as close to my lean-to as I dared. I established my woodpile nearby. I chose that dry wash for my camp because a small, clear spring bubbles through some rocks a few feet away. That first morning I ate watercress and elderberries for breakfast while I finished my camp. That young ranger, Tom Mickelson, came about one o'- clock. He told me the wind had shifted, and a forest fire was burning between me and town, and what to do if the wind shifted again my way. Good thing I planned to stay." Besides her sleeping bag and ground sheet, Doris had with her a small folding shovel, a canteen, and a mess kit that served as a cooking vessel. A hunting knife, a compass, flashlight, a hatchet, and a Colt 22 automatic pistol fit snugly in slots on her belt. A small first-aid kit and a survival kit she kept in her jacket pockets. The latter contained aspirin, band aids, a metal mirror for signaling, sun blinders, fishing line and hooks, a ball of stout twine, needle and thread, water purification tablets, Lady on Survival matches, and four beef cubes, which she brought home intact. In addition to her survival man- ' ual, she had two books on western plants and a Book of Mormon. I I oris spent most of her daylight hours gathering edible vegetation. Leaves of pepper and Clethra bush (white alder), wild rye grass, and pine needles supplied her with greens. She ate gooseberries, elderberries, and service berries for desserts. Yarrow root has to be cooked. Boiled, Doris thought it not unlike hemp rope, and about as easily swallowed. So she pounded it to pulp between two rocks, mixed it with water to the consistency of wallpaper paste. Fried, it tasted lke wallpaper paste. Spiced with wild onion, she called it pasta and ate every crumb. Did she like it? "If you live to eat," Doris advises, "don't go on survival. I intended coming home as healthy as I started out. I ate to live." She boiled dandelions and mallow. Made into soup, pond scum and green algae supplied her a constant source of protein. Broths from mint, sage, and rose hips furnished vitamin C and minerals. She ate violet plants and sego bulbs raw. The only shooting she did brought down cones from the pinons. Squirrels beat her to the nuts that fell, naturally. She made pit and string snares to catch small game. Poisonous plants grow in Dog Valley in the same ratio, perhaps, as elsewhere. Doris quotes a handy little jingle: Leaves three, Let be; Berries white, Take flight. 

575 August 1968

 It covers poison oak, ivy, and sumac. She found the pulse test completely reliable. "I have never been menaced by anything in nature at any time during my camp-outs except mosquitos. That first time, I didn't catch any game in my snares, and I couldn't bear to shoot the squirrels, rabbits, chipmunks, or deer I saw. I liked their company too well. Besides, what would I do with a whole deer?" Doris can be justly proud of her record. Since her week in the Sierra Nevadas, she has led groups of girls on both summer and winter camp-outs and survival trips into the Wasatch Mountains east of Provo. In the summer they depend on vegetation, but Doris shoots enough small game to give everybody a hot meat stew at least once a day on winter survival. In evaluating her experiences, Doris is enthusiastic. "I believe everyone ought to learn enough survival technique to keep himself alive for a few days in emergency. Self-control makes the difference between life and death in the wilds. Panic kills more people than exposure, snake bite, or hunger combined. My fifth day in camp, three members of a jeep rescue patrol carried a hunter out of the Sierra Nevadas in a straight jacket. He had been lost two days in the same area I was in. He had matches, a hunting knife, shells for his gun, but he panicked and collapsed. Advice? Don't lose your self-control. Keep busy, keep calm, keep your wits. I read The Book of Mormon, and whittled me a knife, fork, and spoon, built a table, found all my food, and kept my camp clean. When young Mickelson came by the next Monday when Sister Pefley came for me, he couldn't tell I had ever been there. He invited me back. That kind of tidying-up takes time. But it's worth it. I love nature, the outdoors, and I'}] never do anything to deface it." - COLORS Pinks adornthe August mornings Pinks to scale rare magic heights; Pinks, when purple twilight enters And the days become the nights. Gauguin founded them on canvas In far-off Tahiti's isle, See the garden-borders flourish— Pale and flame petunias smile. Here is unity in color, Sense what splendor fills the eye; Here perfection's screen unfolding Underneath a florid sky. —Beulah Huish Sadleir wy 576 # Time was always running away from Molly Van Hardin. Life in the Steven Van Hardin household was a continual rush and race. Molly was always awake and waiting for the alarm to ring in the mornings; she would prepare breakfast and Little Sue's bottle; pack lunches; drive Steve to his office; and drop Stevie, eleven, and Meg, almost eight, off at school. Molly always took Little Sue (who had been born three months ago, just before Steve's father died) on her daily errands. Somehow, she felt more contented with the little tyke beside her, although Steve's mother, who lived through the block on Clover Street, would gladly care for her at any time. She always picked the children up at three-thirty for swimming lessons or dancing lessons.