[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 568 | Special Feature | Literary Contest Announcements 1968 | ]
written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. <A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That ii has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E.. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. <A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision.

Literary Contest Announcement 1968 In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1968. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The Relief Society Short Story Contest # The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1968 opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1968. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize_____________-$75 Second prize _..._.------$60 Third prize __-_________~_-$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published in the April 1969 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. Also, the General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board— who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of words must appear on the first' page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one hterary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) 

569 August 1968

 c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That is has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from _ the English department. Of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1968. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest. 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 SUMMER-LONG SATURDAY