[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 632 | Lesson | Cultural Refinement "The Power of Discipline" Robert | K. Thomas]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 2— "The Power of Discipline'"' Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Two By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "A stern discipline pervades all nature, which is a little cruel that it may be very kind.'' —Edmund Spenser Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: To stress that control is the focus which gives energy its direction. See note at end of this lesson for art reference. INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON A generation ago the connotations surrounding the word discipline were almost wholly positive. No one expected discipline to be achieved—or enforced—easily, but few questioned its necessity. Now the confused children of a much more permissive age are not so unanimous in their approval. To many, indulgence no_ longer needs to be defended or even explained. Readiness to sample experience, almost any experience, is supplanting willingness to discriminate between experiences which promise development and those which threaten degeneration. To be undisciplined is to throw off all external restraint. Yet external restraints are rarely discarded if internal guides remain strong and meaningful. As any successful teacher can testify, rigidly enforced order in the classroom may teach a 632 child to hate school more effec- 'tively than it teaches him arithmetic. And any soldier who has felt the esprit de corps that men united in a cause can generate, knows that he can willingly subject himself to the most rigorous control. That which gives discipline significance is commitment, and commitment is always internal. Until we can control our thoughts and actions because of a basic moral imperative, a deeply felt conviction that some values are more important than _ others, we will never experience the positive meaning of discipline. Few ideas are stressed more often in the sermons and writings of President David O. McKay than the necessity for self-control, and it is this aspect of discipline that our lesson this month will emphasize. In the selections which make up this section there are manifestations of control which are both external and internal, but the element of moral choice ls common to them all. "THE BALLOON OF THE MIND" In "The Balloon of the Mind," by William Butler Yeats (not printed here because of copyright restrictions), the author obviously believes that he must discipline his thinking. Although we may describe our situation in less graphic terms, many of us share his problem. For example, if you have difficulty in giving a speaker an attentive hearing, if you find your mind wandering when you are trying to study, or if you find yourself restless at a concert, at least one of your problems is mental discipline. It is easy to indulge in fantasies that erect castles in the air. The real difficulty for most of us, as Henry David Thoreau long ago pointed out, is to put foundations under such castles. This poem does not attempt to list specific problems or to give more than a general solution. It is simply a plea to marshall one's efforts, Yeats' imagery is arresting without being too technical. Those who have seen a balloon being recaptured will have no difficulty in understanding the appropriateness of the symbols used here. The soaring, unfettered balloon is aptly descriptive of ahuman mind, and the wind is equally symbolic of external forces. One may let his mind be driven by forces from without, but a mind that cannot be controlled when it needs to be, becomes, at best, a wayward instrument. Lesson Department Discussion Question What might this poem have to say to women who are especially conscious of fashion? "DISCIPLINE" FROM NATURE Ralph Waldo Emerson's famous discussion of discipline illustrates its various forms in the nature which surrounds us. In the consistency and rigor with which nature enforces its discipline, Emerson hopes to suggest provocative examples for man. The following epigrammatic sentences from the discussion are worthy. Of our attention: Nature is a discipline of the understanding in intellectual truths—to instruct us that "good thoughts are no better than good dreams, unless they be executed!"'... Debt, grinding debt, whose iron face the widow, the orphan, the sons of genius fear and hate;—debt which consumes so much time, which so cripples and disheartens a great spirit with cares that seem so base, is a preceptor whose lessons cannot be foregone, and is needed most by those who suffer from it most..... -Therefore is Space, and therefore Time, that man may know that things are not huddled and lumped, but sundered and individual. A bell and a plough have each their use, and neither can do the office of the other. Water is good to drink, coal to burn, wool to wear; but wool cannot be drunk, nor water spun, nor coal eaten.... She pardons no mistakes. Her yea: is yea, and her nay, nay.... Nature's dice are always loaded..... Nature is thoroughly mediate. It is made to serve... It offers all its kingdoms to man as the raw material which he may mould into what is useful....... Nature is ever the ally of Religion: lends all her pomp and riches to the religious sentiment. Prophet and _ priest, David, Jesus, Isaiah, have drawn deeply from this source....... Nothing in nature is exhausted in its first use. When a thing has served 

633 August 1968

 an end to the uttermost, it is wholly new for an ulterior service. In God every end is converted into a new means.... In his final paragraph, Emerson presents one of his most interesting ideas. He insists that "All things are moral." All choices, finally, are either right or wrong. We can't escape responsibility for our acts by insisting certain things don't really matter. The moral consequences of some choices may be hard to see, but no choice can be neutral. If we are sensitive to our surroundings, says Emerson, we can see moral distinctions everywhere, and in recognizing such distinctions we are helped in bringing our own ethical life under control. Discussion Question Who will have the hardest time conceding that all decisions are moral ones? Why? "ABRAHAM DAVENPORT" by John Greenleaf Whittier "Twas on a May-day of the far old year Seventeen hundred eighty, that there fell Over the bloom and sweet life of the Spring, Over the fresh earth and the heaven of noon, A horror of great darkness, like the night In day of which the Norland sagas tell,— The Twilight of the Gods. The lowhung sky Was black with ominous clouds, save where its rim Was fringed with a dull glow, like that which climbs The crater's sides from the red hell below. Birds ceased to sing, and all the barnyard fowls Roosted; the cattle at the pasture bars Lowered, and looked homeward; bats on leathern wings Fhtted abroad; the sounds of labor died; 634 Men prayed, and women wept; all ears grew sharp To hear the doom-blast of the trumpet shatter The black sky, that the dreadful face of Christ Might look from the rent clouds, not as he looked A loving guest at Bethany, but stern As Justice and inexorable Law. Meanwhile in the old State House, dim as ghosts Sat the lawgivers of Connecticut, Trembling beneath their legislative robes. "It is the Lord's Great Day! Let us adjourn,"' Some said; and then, as if with one accord, All eyes were turned to Abraham Davenport. He rose, slow cleaving with his steady voice The intolerable hush. "This well may be The Day of Judgment which the world awaits; But be it so or not, I only know My present. Duty, and my Lord's command To occupy till He come. So at the post Where He hath sent me in his providence, I choose, for one, to meet Him face to face,— No faithless servant frightened from my task, But ready when the Lord of the harvest calls; And therefore, with all reverence, I would say, Let God do his work, we will see to ours. Bring in the candles." And they brought them in. Then by the flaring lights the Speaker read, Albeit with husky voice and shaking hands, An act to amend, an act to regulate The shad and alewives fisheries. Whereupon Wisely and well spake Abraham Davenport, Straight to the questions, with no figures of speech Save the ten Arab signs, yet not without The shrewd dry humor natural to the man: His awe-struck colleagues listening all the while, Between the pauses of his argument, To hear the thunder of the wrath of God Break from the hollow trumpet of the cloud. And there he stands in memory to this day, Erect, self-poised, a rugged face, half seen Against the background of unnatural dark, A witness to the ages as they pass, That simple duty hath no place for fear. The entire poem simply introduces the last line: "That simple duty hath no place for fear." Such a poem is a particularly apt vehicle for an illustration of duty. For duty is rarely glamorous or exciting, and this poem makes no pretense to unusual poetic devices or spectacular imagery. The lines follow each other in precise, even solemn, regularity. Yet the result is as satisfying as it is expected. There is order and meaning to Abraham Davenport's world. Apparently he didn't need to make any sudden decisions when faced with an emergency. His daily preparation was adequate. He was used to doing what he thought was right, and that made him calm whether danger was real or imagined. Such serenity is not so much given as earned, and its cost is personal discipline. Whittier's prose description of the circumstance to which he gives poetic extension in "Abraham Davenport" is worth recounting: The famous Dark Day of New England, May 19, 1780, was a_ physical puzzle for many years to our ancestors but its occurrence brought something more than philosophical speculation into the minds of those who _ passed through it. The incident of Colonel Abraham Davenport's sturdy protest is a matter of history. Lesson Department Sir Henry Wotton's "The Character of a Happy Life " (not printed here) is similarly concerned with man's ability to arrive at such control of himself that he is beyond most of the world's power. Discussion Question In the light of Whittier's and Wotton's poems would you feel justified in describing Abraham Davenport a happy man? Why or why not? "THE DEATH OF SOCRATES" Phaedo by Plato from Few accounts in all literature present more graphically the results of a life spent in obedience to principle than the story of Socrates' death in the Phaedo. Apparently Plato was present at the trial of Socrates in 399 B. C. And heard his teacher condemned to death by poisoning on the charge of corrupting the youth of Athens. In the account of Socrates' last hours, Plato, who was present at the execution, gives a description of the final scene. Many of his friends were with Socrates on this day. It is particularly noteworthy that most of Socrates' friends were able to remain in control of themselves before the actual drinking of the poison. But when they saw that Socrates had emptied the entire cup of hemlock, they all broke down. The distinction between control which is merely temporary inhibition and control which stems from disciplined commitment could not have been made more effectively. "COMMAND" by Albert Wetjen The discipline of Captain Tap- 

635 August 1968

 low in Wetjen's short story "Command," which tells of the duties of a ship's Captain on a voyage, apparently comes out of his deep and dearly bought awareness that to command others requires command of oneself first of all. Note how rarely the Captain can make a self-indulgent decision. He is constantly and acutely sensitive to the responsibilities of his position. If there is obvious self-respect in his actions, there is no hint of arrogance. No truly disciplined man is arrogant or vain, for arrogance and vanity are insistence upon distinctions which have not been earned. The Captain has earned and now maintains his rank by bringing all his talents and skills into harmony. Discussion Question Why don't we feel sorry for this overworked and apparently unappreciated Captain? As with the Captain of our story, most good mothers spend more time answering demands than they do in giving orders. The apparent chaos of school mornings, the constant care which a half-sick child expects, the affectionate sympathy a tired husband looks forward to, the routine of household tasks—such varied demands can only be met successfully by a woman whose personal discipline is so complete it hardly shows. Perhaps only another mother can know the cost of such discipline—and only another mother can appreciate the rewards of such efforts. "ORDEAL BY HANDCART" by Wallace Stegner The final selection in this 636 SINGING MOTHER'S ARRANGEMENTS Abide with me—Madsen $.25 Come Come ye Saints $.25 Glory to God $.30 Heavens are Telling $.30 If Ye Love Me Keep My Commandments $.30 Omnipotence $.20 O Saviour of the World $.25 Praise Ye the Lord $.35 Prayerful Hour $.25 Silent Sea $.25 Love One Another—Fox $.30 Come Ye Blessed—Madsen $.25 Music Co 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 ORDERS FILLED THE SAME DAY WE RECEIVE THE ORDER New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction

of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to. The Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-.55 Zone5 _-___-.75 Zone3 _.-_--.60 Zone6 -~_---.85 Zone4._-__..65 Zone7 -.-.--.-.95 Zone 8_ - - - -1.05 [a 2 DESERET [PPews PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS. Five full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces. Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12', 33% rpm record) Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send _ international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Distributed by Publication Sales Department of Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601 and all Deseret Book Company outlets CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 19—September 1 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 18-25 MESA VERDE & CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR September 21-28 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 13-27 ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26-January 2 Cail or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department month's lesson, Wallace Stegner's touching tribute to the handeart pioneers, brings the facets of discipline presented earlier into triumphal synthesis. For the handcart pioneers exhibited much more than physical discipline. Thoughts as well as actions were brought into focus. The lessons of an_ unyielding nature were painfully learned. Serenity in the face of death was achieved, and those who kept command of themselves were able to help others. Perhaps their example is easier to talk about than emulate. It is easier to weep for those who didn't quite make it to Zion than it is to be "pure in heart," which is to become Zion. If few of us will ever know the rigors of walking across the plains, all of us can grasp our current problems with as firm a hand as stalwart a heart as those who showed us how to live and die in the Lord over one hundred years ago. Our opportunities to show commitment may seem to be less dramatic than those afforded our pioneer fathers, but equal personal discipline can make us their worthy children. Art reference for lesson 2: "Chestnut Trees," by Paul Cezanne, The Relief Society Magazine for June 1968, page 448; and comment by Floyd E. Breimholt, page 449. 

637 August 1968

 HIGH LINK FENCE No sound is in this country square, But quiet throbs as I survey The high link fence and sturdy gate Clenezer d Briley That keep without the grazing stray. The fence encloses long-marked graves Of early dead who made and heard MUSIC COMPANY Pianos Between the shrubs and pale headstones That mark the high link-fenced plateau. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 —Pearle M. Olsen CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES ONCE UPON A MOMENT TO SERVE YOU BETTER Now time stands still, Store—240 East 2nd South os a: i 2. ZIM'S Freeway Store on eniee a At 45th South and Interstate Ligatalin the iat 15 (4370 South 2nd West) In the bond 100-page Crafts Instruction Time, Dealer inquiries invited Converged in a round Moment of fulfillment.

ed jam in a refrigerator or freezer. It can be in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make peach jam for a real family taste treat. Held for a few months in a refrigerator or up to a year in a freezer. If kept at room temperature, it will mold or ferment in a short time. Once a container is opened, the jam should be used within a few days. NOTE: If jam is too firm for serving when opened, it can be softened by stirring. If it tends to separate, stirring will blend it again. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U andI Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and I SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.