[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | Unknown | Issue: 14 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE sudden and almost tragic death of
the French author and critic Alphonse
Daudet, on Thursday, December 16, 1897,
while at dinner with his family in the
midst of domestic enjoyment must bring to
mind the saying “In the midst of life we
are in death.” Daudet is said to have
been the finest critic of the present day.
	THE burning of Dover castle on Decem-
ber 14, must be a great loss of many valu-
able works of art of historic value. It is
one of the most notable places in England,
containing such rare articles as cannot
again be replaced. As the fire was extin-
guished before night perhaps many of the
most valuable articles of other periods and
antique date may have been preserved.
	BY all means let the little people see the
windows with toys and such like curiosities
at Christmas time. There is no occasion
more inspiring to good deeds and tender
thoughts for the children than when pre-
parations are going forward towards this
world-wide festive as well as sacred cele-
bration. Let the children be happy on this
special day and prompt them to deeds of
love, charity and forgiveness. All that is
best in the child shows itself under such
cheerful conditions. It is hard work to be
ill-tempered at Christmas because the sur-
roundings are usually pleasant.
	THE life and labors of Sister Aurelia S.
Rogers is now in the hands of the publish-
ers and will be ready before very long.
Sister Rogers has been assisted in her work
by Sister L. L. Greene Richards who has
given the matter and its arrangement care-
ful oversight, and the book will be useful to
the children of Zion as well as interesting
to older readers. It will contain pictures of
Elder Orson Spencer, one of the ablest min-
isters of the Gospel in former days, and of
the author, Aurelia Spencer Rogers and
Ellen Curtis Spencer Clawson, her elder
sister.
	MRS. AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON has
written a poem entitled “The Exodus and
Jubilee,” which it is hoped will be printed
in some form perhaps in pamphlet style to
be circulated among the people. It is a
complete history in brief and in verse, of
the pilgrimage and labor of the Saints in
settling the desert places and establishing
a commonwealth. We shall be very glad
to see it in some suitable form such as the
merit of the work deserves. Mrs. Croche-
ron has written many poems, stories and
other articles, valuable contributions to our
home literature, but this work seems to us
(perhaps because of the subject) her very
best.
	THE death of Mrs. Nancy Alison Mc-
Kinley during the present month and so
near the holiday season December 12, will
have a depressing effect upon the residents
of the White House. From all one can
learn from newspaper reports the President
was fondly attached to his mother and had
ever been a dutiful and devoted son. The
floral offerings given prove she was beloved
by many, and the attention of the President
coming and going as he did, is proof of the
strength of his affection. Mrs. McKinley
had lived to a ripe old age and has gone to
her rest covered with honors. She was
born April 27, 1809, and died December 12,
1897, at Canton, Ohio. At her funera-

[Column 2]
many testimonials were given of the purity
and uprightness of her life and character.
	THE State Kindergarten association held
its annual meeting in the City and County
Building on Saturday, December 18, Mrs.
Augusta W. Grant in the chair. After the
transaction of routine business, officers for
the ensuing year were elected, which re-
sulted as follows: Prof W. T. Stewart,
president. Mrs. Annie Ballantyne of Og-
den, and Mrs. Annie Craig of Provo, vice-
presidents; Carrie S. Thomas, secretary;
Mary E. Larson, corresponding secretary;
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker, treasurer, and a
board of directors. Prof. Stewart took the
chair and spoke earnestly for the associa-
tion and urged all to work for its advance-
ment and the spread of this educational
dea which lay at the foundation of the best
education.
	SOME of the Christmas displays in the
shop windows are vety artistic this year,
and scarcity of money does not seem to pre-
vent shopping so far as one looking on can
observe, so that the little people will be well
supplied with all kinds of gifts and dainties
when Santa Claus arrives, and judging
from the weather he will come on runners
this year with bells and all the parapher-
nalia of winter costume. The Z. C. M. I
windows are as gay or gayer than ever be-
fore; ribbons and laces show well and
wherever there is color it gives tone to the
entire stock of articles. R. K. Thomas al-
ways makes everything count in arranging
his goods, and although it may be said
quality is everything, yet if the article is
ever so fine and it is not displayed to ad-
vantage, it may remain without a purchaser
while the more common articles are sold
off. Goods must be seen and books too as
well. People are often persuaded into buy-
ing by seeing books handsomely arranged
in windows or in view of the customer.
	THE illustrated lecture in the Assembly
Hall given by Dr. J. E. Talmage upon
Rome on the evening of December 3, was a
delightful pastime and an instructive enter-
tainment. To hear so much that is inter-
esting in one lecture is quite out of the or-
dinary, but Dr. Talmage has the happy
faculty of making every word count, and
one goes from the lecture hall of such a
speaker enriched in thought and ideas as
well as information. The views are very
fine and really fascinating, one may gaze
upon them and imagine being in the fa-
mous city itself. Dr. Talmage showed his
kindness of heart and his interest in child
life in generously giving this lecture free
for the benefit of the Kindergarten, and the
ladies who are working so industriously
and persistently to establish this system of
education in Utah feel very grateful to the
Doctor for the service rendered, both at
this time and heretofore in behalf of this
work. In doing this work for the public
those engaged therein are working for the
betterment of humanity.
	THE U. W. P. C. held its regular meet-
ing on the evening of Nov. 30, at the
residence of Mrs. Annie M. Bradley (editor
of the Review) by her invitation. The
parlors were prettily decorated for the oc-
casion Dr. Romania B. Pratt, the newly
elected president, presided, as the secretary
was not present Dr. Ellis R. Shipp was
chosen secretary pro tem. Original senti-
ments on Thanksgiving were given by the
members. Mrs. Martha B. Jennings,


president of the State Federation was pres-
ent and many other invited guests. Dr. Pratt
read her valuable address in a most pleas-
ing manner which we give in full in this
issue of the paper. Mrs. Marineau recited
beautifully a Thanksgiving poem. Mrs.
Edith Rossiter also gave a recitation, and
Mrs. E. B. Wells read a Thanksgiving story
—also to be found in these columns.
	After the program dainty refreshments
were served to all, including pumpkin pie
and most delicious coffee. General conver-
sation was indulged in and the evening
passed in a delightful social visit.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
