Help Our Missionaries By Grace S. Colton
FROM observations in the Missionary Home and in the mission field we find that girls as well as boys are lacking in a knowledge of how to go about cooking a simple meal or washing a few clothes, the necessity of the daily bath and clean linen, and the art of making a bed and keeping a room in order.
Health is the most important factor in a missionary's career. Upon it everything depends. It is important that missionaries realize the importance of this and have a thorough knowledge of how to keep well. A clean and healthy body always gives spontaneous cheerfulness, joy, and a sense of well-being. One can think more clearly, quickly and deeply when one's mind and body are one with health. Goethe said, "What a man does not understand he does not possess." Self-possession is something of which no one can rob us. Therefore, if we have a knowledge of what we should do and what we should avoid in maintaining health, we possess, to an extent, that something which Christ spoke of when He said, "The truth shall make you free". Certainly we are free to enjoy a happy, rounded life when we have good health. Because of illness, many of our missionaries are not doing as efficient work as they could do, and some have to return home.
Now what could mothers do to assist their boys and girls before they leave home? They could advise them to take a course in school for a few months in the art of cooking, or teach them in the home how to cook simple, wholesome meals. Prospective missionaries should be taught how to select the right combinations of foods, so that the body will have the proper daily proportion of minerals and vitamins. One great difficulty is a lack of knowledge regarding the amount of each food to purchase for, say, two or four persons, so that there will not be any waste. They should be taught that it is harmful to eat the same foods day after day without change and variety. For instance, one young elder was heard to say, as he came in from a hard day's tracting, "My stomach revolts against vegetable soup or pork and beans; that has been our daily diet for the last six months. What wouldn't I give to put my feet beneath my mother's table and have a daily square meal!"
Often canned foods are purchased because they are cheaper than the fresh, are cooked, and easily prepared. However, we learn from those who have studied this important question that canned foods lose some of the food values. Heat in some cases has removed some of the nourishing elements. Fresh vegetables and fruits are more wholesome. In this day and age we can find fresh vegetables and fruits in the markets the year around, and on the farm they are stored in cellars. If a missionary knows how to prepare these, health is more assured.
Water is a very essential element of the body, and many of us do not drink enough of it. We should not depend on our thirst as an accurate guide. We should drink our daily six or eight glasses, or one glassful daily to each twenty pounds of body weight.
From another quarter we hear, "Oh, we have dandy, good appetizing meals. Elder X is a better cook than a woman. He sometimes threatens to let us go hungry if we do not take our turn, but so far he has been a good sport and cooked the meals." Elder X is an exception. He was a boy who had been taught by a wise mother that all honest work is honorable and that cooking, washing and cleaning are not sissy jobs.
MANY of the missionaries have to wash their own clothes while they are away, and they leave home without the slightest idea of how to go about it. We find this to be true because of a number of instances which have occurred in the Missionary Home. For instance, a number of elders decided to wash their soiled clothes. Without asking for assistance, they concluded it would be a simple task; they had seen their mothers doing the washing in the home, and it had seemed so easy just to put hot water in the washer and throw in the clothes. They proceeded to do this very thing. It was unfortunate that they had not observed that mother had always cut up the bar of soap, and that she had sorted the clothes. One boy suggested that they put in some soap; so a bar was thrown in, and then socks, colored pajamas, white underwear and white shirts were put in, all at the same time. The washer went merrily on for some time. Then it was opened, and they proceeded to take out the clothes. Nothing looked natural but the socks, and it was a sorry group of young men who asked what could be done about it.
The missionaries have to make their own beds and keep their rooms tidy. There is an art in making a bed, and it is a simple art that any boy or girl can master. We see some beds, however, where it looks as if the spread had been dropped from an airplane and had fluttered down and settled on top of the bed. Such a bed makes a room look very untidy. Shoes, suitcases, ties, etc., should have a place and be found always in place.
A girl or boy is judged not only by how he keeps his room but by his personal habits and appearance. A daily bath is very essential. Missionaries are always walking, exercising, attending meetings, getting warm and perspiring, and a bath is not only refreshing but invigorating. A clean body, fresh linen and cheerful surroundings result in self-respect.
In one of the missionary groups, one of the elders could cook a meal and was proud of it, could do a washing equal to any woman and tidy up the washroom afterwards, putting everything in its place. Also, he displayed with pride a pair of socks he had darned. His mother had provided him with a sewing kit, thread, needles, buttons, scissors and a large black satin apron to wear when at his work. He is going to enjoy his mission for his body will be kept well nourished, and he will not worry about doing the little essential tasks that come each day.
A young woman who had been doing splendid work and was very happy and had written enthusiastic letters to the home folks, later began writing discouragingly, and her mother asked why the change. A letter came back telling about her new companion. This companion had refused to take her share of the duties about their small apartment, and she was very untidy and unclean about her person. She would leave things all about the place and sleep beyond the time when she should have been about her tasks. Wherever this girl went, she made it unpleasant and embarrassing for her friends and companions. She had not read, perhaps, what the Prophet Joseph Smith said: "Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated."
WE do feel, we missionary mothers, very proud of these boys and girls and want to do the things that will help them most in caring for their health and well-being. We have faith in them, and we must teach them to have faith in themselves. No one else can breathe for us. No one else can keep our heart beating. We must eat nourishing food and digest it ourselves; and because we must do these and many other things ourselves—things no one else can do for us—it is necessary for us to have faith in ourselves, faith in our capacity to go on until the work we have to do is done, ever mindful that everything we do, or shall do, is motivated by religious faith. We should never exist an hour without exercising it. Faith gathers up life, pulls it together and gives it direction. Let our boys and girls possess knowledge of important useful things and always remember the prayer of a good man who said, "Eternal Father, who has equipped the arsenal of our souls with weapons which we have barely used, forgive us all and send us out to walk more intelligently and powerfully by faith."