Prove Me Now By Marguerite Johnson Griffin
IT was Saturday night and pay day, but Bruce Boynton's face bore no signs of joy and pleasure at his home-coming. Despair lay upon his features making worry lines into deep furrows. He had no kiss of greeting for his wife, and he passed his little six-year-old son, Bobbie, without a word or a touch. The little fellow's smiling face lengthened, and he stood speechless in wide-eyed amazement, silenced by the austere expression of his father. Something was wrong. Even a child could feel that.
Alice, the mother, waited too. She understood the despair which so often gripped her husband's heart. It was financial problems, a diminishing salary which was becoming more and more difficult to expand over their needs. If only Bruce had the Gospel for comfort at times like these. That was the thing she always felt, for to her it was a bulwark, a refuge, in which she became refreshed and made more able to cope with her problems. But as yet Bruce had never seen fit to join, though he studied and knew the doctrines as well, she felt, if not better than she. Perhaps some day—
Her eyes were silently watching every movement. Every pay day was very similar, except that the man's discouragement deepened. He pulled forth two wrinkled ten dollar bills from one pocket and placed them on the table. Then from another he extracted several slips of paper which he threw in a crumpled heap beside the money.
"There's a light bill, a gas bill, a statement from the doctor. There's the bill for the wood, and the rent is due in a week," he said bitterly. Then he laughed ironically. "And there's two ten dollar bills. Stretch them over if you can. However, you must remember they're just paper, not rubber."
"Don't, Bruce," cried the woman, putting her arms warmly around him. "We'll get by. It'll take care of the lights and the gas. I saved some out last week to apply on the wood, and I think with that we'll have enough. Next week we'll pay the fifteen dollars for rent, and the following week we can pay the doctor five. We'll get by."
Bobbie had slipped quietly and unnoticed into the next room.
"But who wants to get by?" thundered the man. "We want to get ahead."
"Everybody's in the same boat, Bruce. It isn't just us. If it were, we might complain. As it is, we've got each other and Bobbie."
"Bobbie! Where is the kid?" the man remembered suddenly. "I forgot all about him."
"Here I am, Daddy," the child said seriously. "Here's a penny. I couldn't make any more come out of my bank, but you need some money, so I want to give you a penny, 'cause I love you so."
The little boy's devotion completely softened the man's heart. "Bless you!" he said, and crushed the small boy to him.
"Here, Daddy, take it," insisted the child, not to be put off.
Such unselfishness and thoughtfulness were overwhelming to the man. Such a noble, manly little son he had! The father held him back at arm's length and looked proudly at the solemn little face whose earnestness could not be denied. Such generosity was a priceless thing and should be cultivated. So accepting the copper piece he said, "Thank you very much, son."
It was one of life's exquisite moments, and the mother, watching, read the loving desires which filled her husband's eyes. She knew what he was feeling. She knew how he would like to be able to lay the good things of the earth before this child's feet and her own as well. She knew the frustrations which rose up to torment the man's soul. What chance did a man have today to build up a heritage for his family?
"Dear Bruce!" thought the woman. "If you could only see. If you could only know that there is a gospel which provides for mankind a heritage which is above all price, and in which both rich and poor have equal chance." But the pain which was filling her husband's eyes now was more than she could bear, so she severed the tension abruptly.
"Get ready for dinner," she urged them, forcing her mind and her attention to return to the preparations for the evening meal.
Bruce went to the bathroom to wash and clean himself up. He carelessly laid the penny upon the window sill, while the incident slipped from his memory as his problems crowded in once more upon his attention.
EARLY in the evening, shortly after Bobbie had gone to bed, two Ward Teachers called at the house. This was an unusual occurrence for a Saturday night, but they had been asked to fill out some ward membership survey cards, and they were trying to get their task completed in order that they might hand the cards to the bishop the following day. Brother Martin and Brother James were very surprised to find that Bruce Boynton was not a member of the Church, and they said as much.
"For a non-member, you are outstanding in your attendance at meetings. You seem to be one of our old stand-bys. You attend every activity. Surely you are planning shortly to join our ranks?"
"No-o-o," Bruce drawled slowly. "I have no such plans as that. Alice enjoys her meetings. I have no church of my own, so I enjoy going with her. But I think it's best to leave things just as they are."
Brother James, the elder Teacher, now assumed the role of spokesman, and he voiced a question which on some occasions might seem very blunt, but his voice was gentle and earnest.
"Do you believe Mormonism to be true?"
"Of course he does," Alice answered eagerly. "He's read our doctrines from cover to cover." She turned her clear, studious eyes full upon his face. "You do believe it, don't you, Bruce?"
The man smiled affectionately upon his wife. "Well, in a way perhaps I do. Yes, I do believe that it has the most to offer of any church."
"Then why," persisted Brother James softly, "why do you not embrace it?"
"Oh, I don't know," shrugged the man.
"Yes, you do," insisted the elder Ward Teacher. "There is something about it which bothers you. Perhaps we can help. Tell us what it is."
In the presence of this gentle earnestness Bruce could no longer envelop himself in self-restraint. "Very well," he said. "I doubt if you can help me, though. You see, I've read everything on it that I can find, but I still can't swallow the doctrine. And I want to believe it, too!" The man's voice was strangely tense. "I do want to believe Mormonism! There is no use for me to join if I can't live it, and I'd like to be able to live it as my wife would have me do."
The room was silent while all waited for Bruce to continue. Alice's eyes were fastened anxiously upon her husband as if the very fate of her life hung in the balance.
"But there's one thing I'm not converted to, and that is the payment of tithing. I figure if I can't whole-heartedly accept that, I had better remain a non-member than become one of those members who must constantly be admonished to do his duty."
"I see," mused Brother James. "That is a very honorable attitude, but what is there to tithing that you can't accept?"
"Everything," answered Bruce with spirit. "I make only $20 a week. That is not enough for a man with a wife and child to live on. It is only because of Alice's careful management that we have as much as we do. We get by. But there are doctor bills which have come along in the seven years of our marriage which we have never been able to keep up with, and other bills which we have had to pay by small installments, just as we can. Don't you see? We don't make enough to cover everything as it is. Therefore, I can't see how a just God would demand ten per cent of that meager income from us. Why, that would be two dollars a week, eight dollars in a month, more than we are ever able to pay all at once on our doctor bill. We couldn't manage. It would be impossible."
Alice looked expectantly at Brother James. If only he could say something to convince her husband, how willing she would be to try to manage on the smaller amount. She had told him all too often, but he had only kissed her brow and insisted that a just God would not expect it of her, that she had to do without enough as it was.
Brother James was speaking again, very gently. "Perhaps it might seem so in the light of cold reasoning, but we must not fail to remember that it is a commandment with a blessing, you know."
"I know," Bruce countered quickly. "I can quote it: 'Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.' Brother James, you can tell me nothing about it that I do not know. I know what it is, how it was substituted in these latter days for the United Order which was first practiced in the early days of the Church. I have spent hours, days, trying to understand it." The man ran a large hand through his hair as if the thought wearied him. "But so far I cannot accept it. What does money mean to the Lord? He with His power does not need it when the whole earth is His already, when the elements themselves would obey the command of His words—"
"You have such faith in His power," murmured Brother James softly, "yet you cannot accept His words that blessings will be returned to you an hundred fold?"
"Do you think," Bruce argued quite heatedly, "do you think a Supreme Being like God would treat man so like a child as to say: 'If you pay Me this money, I will give you blessings—'?"
"But man is, after all, a child."
"Granted. But the whole thing seems based on superstition to me. The Perfect Father would not bribe His children. The Perfect Father would not accept pennies from His impoverished children, for our dollars must be as paltry to Him as our children's pennies are to us."
Elder James' lips refrained from further argument, and disappointment laid its hopeless blanket about the cold shoulders of the young woman. It was hopeless, utterly hopeless. Bruce would never see the light. It was hard to shake off the despair which had come once more from the shadows of her aching heart. So, shortly after the visitors left, she said she was tired and went to bed, because she needed to cry only a little, and in the darkness Bruce could not see. He, too, was glad to have her retire, for then he could let his face relax with the weariness and despondency which he was too exhausted to hide from her penetrating eyes any longer.
IT was quite late when the man finally bestirred himself and went into the bathroom, as was his nightly habit, to scrub his teeth. And there he saw it again—saw upon the window sill the small round copper penny which he had placed there so carelessly a few hours before. Automatically he picked it up, fingered it a moment, while he thought lovingly of the small blond boy who had bestowed it so whole-heartedly upon him. Then his steps moved into the living room, and he went up to the mantle where stood Bobbie's small penny bank. It was a very cheap little metal bank, and the paint on it was scratched by the hard usage of childish hands. Without hesitation he placed the coin over the slot. Then he separated his fingers and the penny dropped into the bank with a clink which resounded throughout the still room.
There was something joyous in the ting of that clink! Something so resonant that it sang into his very soul! It set his heart hammering with jubilance. It set his pulses racing. It set his mind free, and it drew away his blindness. Now he could see the thing which had troubled him. Now he knew and understood.
"Indeed we are as little children," he thought, "even as Brother James said; when we pay tithing our good Heavenly Father eventually slips it back into our penny bank, even as I slipped back the penny which little Bobbie so generously gave me. There is no superstition about it! It is reasonable! It is natural!"
His soul sang within him. "Prove me now, herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing!" The words raced through his mind as though borne on a breeze which was sweeping away all ugly doubts and fears.
"I do not need to prove Thee, Heavenly Father," he prayed. "I know now. I understand how it is. I thank Thee."
The next evening after sacrament meeting Bruce said to Alice, "Wait a moment. I have something to see to." She watched him go toward the Ward Clerk's desk, and she wondered what his intentions might be. Slowly she followed him and arrived at his side in time to hear him say:
"Two dollars tithing for Bruce Boynton."
The Ward Clerk had been busy writing numerous receipts as the tithe payers had encircled his desk after meeting. He had been writing and receiving money so fast he had scarcely looked up at any of the contributors, contenting himself by speaking to them with head bent over his work. But now he paused suddenly and raised his eyes.
"Brother Boynton? And you're not a member—" he breathed, while a wave of radiance swept over his features.
"But I will be as soon as it can be arranged," Bruce promised.
The Ward Clerk rose to his feet and clasped the man's hand. "Congratulations, Brother!" he said earnestly. "May the Lord bless you and your wife!"
Alice was now at his side, and her small hand had crept into her husband's free one and lay there quivering with an uncontrollable joy. She could not speak for her soul was so full, but her thoughts winged a grateful prayer: "Thank you, Lord, for this blessing which is so great there is scarcely room in my heart to receive it!"
"THE supreme benefit of tithing is not the money it brings to the church. It is the joy, the contentment, the individual personal happiness it brings into the daily life of the tither. To these the money standard does not apply. They can be neither weighed, measured nor counted, yet these and not the money are what God cares for. His glory is enhanced by the happiness of His children."