Vol. XXVI SEPTEMBER, 1939 No. 9
EDITORIAL
Frances E. Willard
AS we view the past, we see a panorama of far-reaching movements, which have held aloft Christian ideals and advanced civilization, born and directed by exceptional women?women who have made a mark on their generation by the good work they have done. This issue of the Magazine contains a brief sketch of the life and works of Grace Abbott, a great leader in the field of public welfare and the special friend of children. A retrospective view of her life brings an appreciation of her accomplishments and a realization that she has left with us a great legacy in the goals she set.
Another gifted and versatile woman who has left the imprint of her life on the sands of time is Frances E. Willard. Born one hundred years ago this month, September 28, 1839, in Churchville, New York, her service to humanity entitles her to recognition as one of the greatest women of her age. A sketch of her life says: "The life of Frances Willard was so broad in its sympathy and purpose that all humanity was touched by it. From her beautiful life the church learned the power of consecrated womanhood; nobler aspirations grew in men because of her uplifting thought; self-distrusting women were inspired by courageous deeds; youth found in her an ideal, and children loved her as their friend."
Her interests and activities extended in many directions. She worked ceaselessly for the cause of womanhood, first speaking in favor of woman's suffrage in 1877. Some one has said that Frances Willard created a new order for women. Under her leadership the women of her own country, and world women as well, were brought out into active work for the common welfare and were enabled to take their place among the best and noblest of the world's workers. In 1890 she was elected president of the Woman's National Council which represented nearly all of the women's societies of America.
Great as were her activities in the woman's movement, she is probably best known for her activities in the temperance movement. She ceaselessly fought the inroads of the liquor traffic, hanging the banner of "total abstinence" wherever she set her foot or wherever her pen wrote its message. Visioning a liquorless world, the major portion of her life was devoted to organizing women for prohibition of alcohol as a beverage. From 1879 until her death in 1898 she was president of the Women's Christian Temperance Union. In 1887 she was elected president of the International Women's Christian Temperance Union. She was one of the founders of Our Union, a temperance publication, and also The Signal. These were later combined as the Union Signal, which periodical she edited from 1892 until her death.
Memorials without number are erected to Frances Willard?schoolhouses, fountains, halls, hospitals, even a beautiful marble portrait in Statuary Hall of the Nation's Capitol. A Willard Memorial Organization Fund has been established for the extension of the work to which this great reformer gave her life.
But there is no greater way in which honor could be bestowed upon Frances Willard than for women everywhere to continue to wage war on alcoholic beverages. Intemperance still exists; liquor is on sale everywhere; drunkenness on the highway takes its annual toll; cocktail parties have become a mark of social acceptability; the bootlegger still plies his nefarious traffic. We must not forget that the fight for morality and decency must be constant and progressive. We must not allow the moral fiber of our young people to be sapped by surrender to an appetite for liquor. Organized women can do much to control the alcohol evil. Mothers in the home must develop in their children the moral fiber to say "No" to temptation. Children must be taught to master their own appetites. The world today needs its Frances Willards.