NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Notice to Writers of Plays and Pageants
THE committee on Plays and Pageants regret to announce that there is an over supply of this type of material in the Relief Society office. We therefore suggest that no more manuscripts be submitted for publication except by request. In spite of our inability to accept more contributions for publication, owing to lack of space in the Magazine, we still urge our members to continue to write. We are deeply interested in the development of literary talent, especially along this particular line. Many of the manuscripts which we have received have merit but are sometimes lacking in general appeal. These can perhaps be used locally with good effect. We earnestly desire that this be done.
Latter-day Saints have a spiritual heritage possessed by few other people. There is also much dramatic and literary ability among our Relief Society members. Our Mormon history is full of stirring, soul-inspiring incidents that may be dramatized so effectively that any Latter-day Saint woman possessing literary ability can make, if she will, a valuable contribution to our very limited group of worth while plays and pageants. There is a constant and growing demand in our Organization for dramatic productions. There is hope that in the not too distant future a genius will be born who will make use of the wondrous events in our Church history and present to the world a dramatic masterpiece.
Literary Books
THE books used in connection with the 1938-39 Literary course were handled for the Relief Society by the Deseret Book Company. Through their cooperation special editions were secured and offered for sale at the following nominal prices:
The Advance of the English Novel, William Lyon Phelps......$1.25 Robinson Crusoe, Daniel Defoe.........................................1.00 The Talisman, Sir Walter Scott......................................1.00 Lorna Doone, Richard Dodridge Blackmore.............................1.00 City of Bells, Elizabeth Goudge....................................2.00
The Book Store still have a number of these on hand, no doubt due to the fact that being older titles a great many of the sisters had them in their libraries. Each of these novels holds an important position in literature. They are delightful and profitable reading and a valuable addition to the home library. We suggest that those who do not already own these books avail themselves of the opportunity to purchase them at these low prices before the limited supply is exhausted.
The Advance of the English Novel is again recommended for use in connection with the 1939-40 Literary course.