NOTES FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Franklin Stake
IT is with feelings of profound sorrow that we note the death of Sister Bertha P. Larson on May 26, 1939. For many years as president of the Franklin Stake Relief Society her accomplishments were magnificent. Under her capable leadership the organization operated for the advancement of the women of her stake along every line?material, social, spiritual. The general office always found whole-hearted cooperation from this progressive stake. Such women as Sister Larson are the strength and the glory of the Relief Society. The Presidency and General Board extend to Brother Larson and his family sincerest sympathy in their great bereavement.
On the 18th of June the stake Relief Society was reorganized with Alice S. Merrill as president, Louie M. Cole first counselor, Marie M. Merrill second counselor, and Bertha M. George secretary-treasurer, with all necessary board members and special workers. We welcome them into the group of stake officers. True to the traditions of the past and the high standard set, the future of Franklin Stake Relief Society is full of promise.
Yellowstone Stake
THE picture below is of the Relief Society sisters of the stake in conference and also shows the beautiful handwork on display. The Membership Drive has been an outstanding activity of this stake. A stirring membership song has been composed and a membership chart designed?a thermometer showing the present membership of each ward, each year's quota, and the number to be enrolled by 1942 in order to achieve keystone success. A membership arch, divided into as many parts as there are wards in the stake, with old members designated by a blue star, new ones by a gold star, and prospective members by a red star, is also effective. An award of merit will be presented by the stake to the ward reaching its quota in the Membership Campaign.
The accompanying picture is of a pageant presented by the St. Anthony First Ward as a part of the ward conference and the 17th of March celebration.
Cottonwood Stake
ERRATUM: A report of the Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital published in the July issue stated that 422 patients had been admitted to the hospital. This should have read 4,222.
Oneida Stake
THE enthusiasm with which the stakes have conducted the Membership Campaign is again called to our attention by a report from the Oneida Stake, where the efforts of the sisters have been very successful. A prize was offered by the stake board to the ward making the greatest membership increase. This prize was won by the Preston Fourth Ward. The coordinators of this ward are shown in the accompanying photograph, Sisters Annie McQueen and May Larson. These sisters have made a visit to every family in the ward and brought many members who have been inactive for years back into the Relief Society. They were also successful in enrolling thirty new members, which was their quota for three years. They also made the arch shown in the picture. This arch has a flower with the name of each member of the Fourth Ward Relief Society, both old and new, inscribed upon it. This is only one example of the very excellent leadership always found in the Oneida Stake under the capable direction of Sister Ellen B. Larson, whose splendid accomplishments in all branches of the work have been outstanding for many years.
On June 25, 1939, the stake was reorganized with Sister Ora W. Packer president, Harriet J. Greaves first counselor, Ida E. Evans second counselor, and Alida Necley secretary-treasurer. The General Board congratulates these sisters and expresses the hope that the fine cooperation always found in the Oneida Stake Relief Society will continue.
San Francisco Stake
ON Saturday, April 29, a spring exhibit, food sale and fashion show was held at the social hall of the San Francisco Ward. The sisters brought a wide assortment of foods prepared at home?quantities of homemade bread of many varieties, home-baked rolls, cakes, etc. Two large tables were loaded with these contributions. The quantity, variety and quality of handwork exhibited was the finest ever shown in this stake.
The purpose of the fashion show was to demonstrate that labor, skill and thoughtfulness in the remodeling of wearing apparel which might otherwise be discarded can produce attractive clothing. This was a definite encouragement to thrift and industry and afforded the women stimulation in providing family needs in this way. Models were grouped according to age and type, and posters were used to introduce each group. Clothing suitable for all seasons and occasions, including a bridal costume, was demonstrated. The Literary teacher, Lila Barstow, added interest to the occasion by describing each garment?the materials, their source and total cost. In some cases the expenditure was a few cents, in others it was nothing more than labor.
In the exhibits and the food donations the women of the stake responded generously. A spirit of love, harmony and loyalty, which brought success and happiness, characterized the entire affair. Sister Josephine Thatcher Danford, to whom we are indebted for this report, says, "There was an attendance of approximately 350 or 400 members to whom refreshments were served. A worth while sum was realized from the sale of the foods and the admission charges." Juab Stake ON the 17th of March a very interesting program was presented by the Juab Stake. A typical Magazine cover was reproduced and each of the educational courses personified and appropriately presented. "The Key of Promise", a beautiful anniversary pageant, was the medium of expression through which the story of the Relief Society organization, its objectives and accomplishments were graphically related. The picture below shows the cast. Bonneville Stake THE favor with which the arch as a symbol of the Membership Drive has been accepted by the stakes is borne out by reports coming from all over the Church. The campaign was enthusiastically conducted in every ward of the Bonneville Stake. The above picture is of the Yalecrest Ward arch and Sister Mable Olsen, the coordinator. With each new member a flower is added to the arch. ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT, JUAB STAKE MORMON ANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker The charm of the party is not in the display Of elaborate or costly things, Or the formal serving of sumptuous viands; It's in the quality of friendliness offered, in the opportunity set For the joyous interchange of word and of spint, When the soul is fed as well as the body, And the warmth of the heart is in it. EARLY every woman would like to be a charming hostess and entertain friends graciously and easily, but many feel that their things aren't nice enough or that they can't afford to give parties. But if they only knew it, friends love to come where there is a warm, cordial hospitality and an informal atmosphere that's conducive to conversation and friendly interchange of ideas. Material things are of secondary importance. The homely "old honesties" with simple food attractively served are as effective as elegant, expensive things. Get friends talking about their interests and hobbies and they'll never noticc whether they are eating an hors d'ouvre or a ham sandwich. And they'll have a wonderful time. Using common things in an uncommon way is often a means of adding interest and charm to a party. Daintily tinted popcorn baskets made effective motives for a lunchcon that honored Sister Amy W. Evans recently. They repeated the color scheme of the centerpiece and served as placecard favors; for a little take-off on Sister Evans' work in welfare, each basket was filled with candied corn, beans, etc., typifying a food basket sent out at 'Thanksgiving and Christmas.