She Conductor and the Organist By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff THE conductor's problem is first to interpret the music to be sung and then by means of her conducting technique to convey to the chorus her ideas so definitely that the singers are compelled to sing as she wishes. It is obvious that a conductor must have certain musical and personal characteristics. Most important among these is a knowledge of music. Without this she cannot secure a tasteful and effective interpretation of a piece, nor can she hope to command the respect necessary for the implicit obedience in all musical matters that must be required of the chorus. A conductor must have the technique in conducting that is necessary for projecting to the singers the mood of the composition and the small changes in the specd and loudness of the music that make up an artistic performance. A conductor must know very definitely what she wants and be willing to work to obtain it. This firmness of character should appear in the assignment of parts, as well as in rehearsal and performance. But if firmness is necessary, tact is equally so. 'Tactfulness does not imply weakness. THE organist's problem is first to ~~ learn the accompaniments and then to play them as the conductor wishes. She must be able to follow closely the movements of the baton, the left hand, the face and body, which show what the conductor wishes. A good accompanist falls not far short of being a mind-reader. It is as an accompanist that we will think of the organist in this series of articles. We will assume a knowledge of music and technique sufficient to play the accompaniments required, and attempt to teach the organist the movements she must interpret when used by the conductor. A good accompanist follows the conductor even when she is wrong. The articles you will read during the following months are for both conductor and organist. They will teach the conductor what to do, the accompanist how to interpret and follow. It is suggested that the chorister and organist meet together once a week outside meeting and rehearsal for the purpose of working together on these lessons. 'The organist will be able to tell the chorister when her movements are unreadable, and the conductor can tell the accompanist when she has not interpreted aright. It is only by such cooperation that we can hope to attain the best possible in singing, whether by congregation or chorus. And only the best possible can satisfy us, for we believe that "The Glory of God is Intelligence".