[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Johnson]
Work ITleeting— Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Lesson 6 — Elimination of Body Wastes Maria Johnson For Tuesday, March 14, 1961 Objective: 1. To help us recognize the importance of the elimination of body wastes. 2. 'To make us alert to our responsibility in meeting the sick person's need for the elimination of body wastes. UR body must not only have food to nourish it, but it must get rid of waste products which the body cannot use. Elimination is a natural and important function of the body. In health, cach individual attends to such needs for herself; in sickness she may need help. 'The bedpan, urinal, or enema may become a necessary part of the care. Whenever such care is needed by the patient, it is given by the onc caring for the sick without comment or embarrassment. She accepts this responsibility in the same spirit that a mother meets the needs of her baby. A. Giving and Removing a Bedpan Equipment: Bedpan Bedpan cover Protective sheet or pad Basin of warm water Soap, towel, and washcloth Toilet paper. Key Points Do not expose patient. This may be newspapers or a small waterproof sheet. Closed end toward head of bed. Pad mav be placed over closed end if patient is thin, as skin over spine is easily irritated. Important Steps Turn back bedelothing at side. Place protective pad under hips. N Ww 3. Put bedpan beside patient. 4. Have patient draw up her knees. Put With bent knecs the patient can one hand under her hips. <As_palift with you. Be sure the pan is in tient lifts up, slip bedpan under her the proper position. Upper end of pan with your other hand. Adjust it, should support the buttocks. Replace cover or If patient is very large or cannot When possible have two people, one raise her hips, it may be easier to to hold the pan and one to roll the have her turn on her side and then patient. Place the pan tightly against the buttocks as she rolls back on the pan. 5. Put toilet paper where patient can Unless patient is very ill or weak reach it. Leave her alone. She will be more relaxed. 6. 'To remove pan, place hand under Be sure patient is clean and dry. Hips and have patient bend knees and lift. Page 848 LESSON DEPARTMENT 849 7. If patient is unable to clean herself, Always wipe toward the patient's you do it for her. Back to avoid carrying soiled material to the vagina or bladder opcning — feces always contain bacteria. 8. Place basin, soap, and towel where After urimating, measure urine if patient can wash her hands. Doctor wants record of amount. 9g. Observe contents before emptying pan. Save for doctor to see, if there is anything unusual. To Clean a Bedpan: Rinse first with cold water. Use toilet paper to remove particles that stick to the pan, wash in hot, soapy water, rinse, and dry. B. Use of the Commode Many patients use the bedpan with difficulty. It can be uncomfortable and the position unsatisfactory for good elimination. 'Today, most patients, not acutely ill, are permitted to use the commode if they cannot go to the bathroom. A commode can be rented, bought, or one improvised at home. Put an oval opening in the wooden seat of a chair or remove a cane seat. Cut an appropriate-sized hole in a %-inch plywood board, sand well, and attach it to chair, or use regular toilet seat and lid over the opening. Place a pail on the floor under the opening. A stool under the pail will bring the pail up close to the opening. The pail should be cleaned after each use as a bedpan. If the commode is to be kept in the sick room, cover the seat and make a skirt of interesting material to go around the chair. C. Intake and Output By the expression "intake and output" we mean the fluid taken into the body and the urine passed during a given period of time. The balance between the fluid we take in and the amount we give off is important in the normal functioning of the body. The body can get along without food for some time, but it must have fluid. If the patient is drinking very little fluid, or more than usual, the doctor may ask you to measure the amount of fluid the patient drinks and the urine she passes. Keep a record of the time and amount, so the doctor will know. An improvised measure can be made by putting a strip of adhesive tape lengthwise on a quart bottle. Then pour water into the bottle, one ounce at a time, and mark the tape. ENEMAS Enemas are of two general types, those to be expelled, such as the cleansing enema, and those to be retained, such as the oil or medicated enema. Giving an enema means introducing fluid into the rectum and colon. The cleansing enema is given to soften the feces and stimulate the bowel to empty. The solutions most commonly used are a mild soap solution, plain water, or a saline solution which is made by adding one teaspoonful of salt to one pint of water. For the soap solution use only a mild white soap and in a weak solution. A strong soap or heavy solution is irritating to the colon. The best way to make a soap jelly is to cut small pieces of soap, add a little water, and heat until the soap dissolves. Use about a teaspoonful of the jelly to a pint of warm water. A solution can also be made by agitating the soap in the water until it has a milky appearance. In this case all bubbles and foam must be removed before the solution is used. Disposable enema packets are now available and are being used 850 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 extensively in hospitals. They come complete. No added equipment is needed. 'They are effective and are simple to use. The directions for using these come with each packet. To Give a Cleansing Enema You will need a basin or tray on which to carry the equipment to the bedside. Equipment Needed: 1. A rubber enema bag, an irrigating can or a funnel, and pitcher. 2. The solution to be used — 1 pint to 1 quart for an adult, 1 cup to 1 pint for a child. 3. Rubber tubing, 18 to 25 inches long to attach to the can or funnel. 4. A rubber catheter or rectal tube. These come in various sizes. For an adult use a catheter or rectal tube size 18-24. For a child use a catheter size 14-18. For an infant use a catheter size 10-14. 5. A glass connecting tube to attach the catheter to the tubing and a clamp to control the flow of the solution. I 6. A lubricant on a piece of toilet paper. Never take the container of lubricant to the bedside. 7- Toilet paper, newspapers to protect the bed, and also one to put the rectal tube in when it is removed. 8. Bedpan and bath blanket. Procedure: 1. Assemble all equipment and bring to bedside. The solution should be warm, not hot. 2. For best results have patient turn on left side. If she is not comfortable on her side, she may be on her back. 3- Put bath blanket over the patient and bring the covers to the foot of bed. This will keep odors from penetrating the covers. 4. Place the newspaper under the patient to protect the bed, and put the bedpan on the bed by the buttocks. 5. Lubricate the catheter with the lubricant on the toilet paper. 6. Open the clamp and let a little of the solution run through the tubing into the bedpan. Close the clamp. 7. Lift the upper buttock and insert the rectal tube into anus. Explain to the patient What you are doing. Insert gently for 4 inches if an adult — 3 inches if a child. 8. Open the clamp and hold the can or funnel not more than 18 inches above the mattress. A standard is not needed. We have learned that holding the can high results in too much pressure. G. If the patient feels she cannot retain the solution, stop the flow momentarily by pinching the tubing, then resume the flow gradually. 10. Close the clamp while the tube is still filled with solution. This prevents introducing air into the bowel. 11. Remove the rectal tube, detach and Wrap in the newspaper so as not to contaminate or soil other equipment. 12. Put the patient on the bedpan. Best results come when the solution is retained five or ten minutes. The urge to expel the solution can often be controlled by pressing a few sheets of toilet paper against the anus. 13. Clean all equipment with soap and water. The rectal tube should first be rinsed with cool water, then washed in soap and water, and then boiled for five minutes. 14. After the bedpan is removed, wash the patient's hands, make her comfortable, and air the room. LESSON DEPARTMENT When Giving Enemas to Children: The Infant: 851 Place the baby on a pillow with waterproof cover so that the buttocks are over the bedpan. The fluid must be given in small amounts because the infant will expel it almost as soon as it is introduced. Placing the child on the lap, over a rubber sheet with the buttocks by the open toilet, is helpful procedure in the home. The Toddler: Toddlers must be placed on the bedpan at the beginning of the treatment as they are unable to retain the fluid any length of time. The Older Child: Same as adult. For the child who is not ill, some mothers like to place a pad on the bathroom floor by the toilet and let the child get down on all fours. This position makes it easy to insert the catheter and most children will co-operate. The Retention Enema: The retention enema differs from the cleansing enema in that it is to be retained. Two or three ounces. It is given very slowly and in very small amounts, sometimes not more than The solution is retained or absorbed better if a cleansing enema is given about one hour before the retention enema so the intestinal track will be cleared. The equipment needed for a retention enema consists chiefly of a catheter, funnel, and small length of rubber tubing. Since there may be some seepage, it is well to keep a pad under the patient to protect the bed.