[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
Social Science—Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 12 — Values — Their Growth and Meaning Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, March 28, 1961 Objective: and the meaning which they have i in our lives. Introduction HAT proper living — requires strength of character, all will admit, but mere strength does not suffice: strength alone can mean blind and reckless aggression. What we need is strength prope irected by adequate behavior and properly criticized values. Then only can we expect effective living. There is ample evidence that the dgcisions which we make are based on the values which we possess. Urthermore, many of us recognize that as a result of living in this complex world, we are frequently faced with conflicting values. 'Therefore, the decision we make to take something which does not belong to us or not take it, to give of our time to support a worthy project or not, to To increase our understanding of what values are, how they develop, assume our responsibilities in church and community activities, or shirk our responsibilities in preference for other endeavors depends upon our hierarchy [any things in graded order] of values. Among individuals who do not develop any strong values, we are apt to find indifference and apathy toward life. We are apt to find the flighty individual, the one who plays at being someone else because he has no self to express, the extreme overconformer, the nagging dissenter. Understanding values, then, ls important both from the standpoint of making the most of our own lives as well as being adequately prepared to guide and direct others for whom we may be responsible. But what are values? Where do values come 858 from? How do values develop? What role do values play in our lives? Values Defined Values have long received the attention of thinking people and of more recent years the intense investigation of social scientists. Represent a term or concept which is difficult to define to everyone's satisfaction. But let us accept the following statement as a_ working definition of value. Va which has prionty_in the life of Values a person, that which he prizes, which he_ déei e__significant, worthwhi and 4 A man's values identify what he considers to be good, what gives meaning and purpose to his life. A value is a directive factor in human behavior. Values are a combination of ideas and_attitudes_which give priority or preference _to certain goals. These goals or values assume a place of high importance in the personality. Pl aS a lished, then action and_behavior are set into a priority system which is determined by whether or not they lead toward the desired goal. Values tend to contro] behavior as well as to motivate it. Values are, therefore, both positive and negative. Each personality holds certain goals a lers to be rigorously avoided. How Values Develop Our values do not come as a gift, and we cannot give our values to our children and other people. Values come through "value-ing"; they grow through prizing, cherishing, paldicedh ine eo ieelen iE this for us. > — = The several stages of a child's deRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 velopment of values can be identihed. Children up to seven or eight years of age tend to respond to problems of values by identifying with parents and family members and ascribing an almost blanket acceptance to the values they've_learned first_in the family. Following this there comes a brief period of two or three years which marks a_progressive decline in applying values without question. By carly adolescence, the youngster may reject the use of specific rules of conduct and begin to evolve and utilize more general principles which derive their support from the previous values learned as well as some new values which may confront him as a result of his contact with teachers, peers, [persons of the same standing] and heroes, movie stars, and famous personages. The degree of influence of the peer group and hero figures upon the child's values is almost cnet dependent upon how strongy he has previously id ithe bs parents. If the parental values uave been sufficiently internalized (see Lesson Four, Relief Socicty Magazine, November 1959, page 777), and if the child perceives of himself as a person who does the "tight" thing most of the time, then other values which are directly opposed to these are more easily resisted. It is in this latter stage that the child really begins to see himself as a person with values of his own. While the individuals forming concepts through life's experiences, he is also Temmive oie: cage each of the objects and. Forces has for him througtrhis-impressions of how each of them affects him. This sense of value becomes a part of each concept and determines how the individual LESSON DEPARTMENT feels about it. This tends to influence his behavior toward or with that thing. In order properly to understand how values develop, it may be helpful to differentiate between values and_value-ng. Values constitute something of or within the valuing transact object valued. We cannot say that a goal has value, rather a goal is a value. We put the value on it. It is important to realize that values exist in a context and not in a void. We find it difficult, for example, to talk about good in general. It's more helpful and more precise to speak about a good man, a good deed, or a good family. We also find it advantageous to employ adjectives to modify the term values. We find it more meaningful to speak of cultural values, or human values, or ethical values, or middleclass values, etc. In each case we are identifying the context in. Which values appear. We ask, valuable to whom and for what? One type of behavior which may be highly valued in one setting may be scorned in another. For example ot from within the. 859 our lives. We plan the expenditure of our money in ways which favor certain values. We often choose to be among people who share our values. We seek reading and other activities which tend to support our values. This penetration of values into our lives is our way of continually testing them. Our values, therefore, are forever undergoing change which shared living and reflective thinking never cease to bring about. Conflict of Values The individual living in the complex world of today frequently finds that he is faced with conflietingvalues. All of us have undoubtedly been faced with the task of choosing between two things which we wanted, but which were not compatible or which were not both available to us. When faced with such a dilemma, our values of necessity must be placed in a hierarchical order, and it would be natural to assume that the value assigned the highes would_determine the course_of_be-. Havior. For example, let us assume that a Mormon youth values keeping he Word of Wisdom, and _ also vidual possessing certain « qualities of, values the acceptance of his peer gentleness and_tendernes rkin with emotionally disturbed children may be highly valued, while the same qualities in the business world or military service may not only be scorned and belittled, but may actu-_ ally result in professional failure. In the latter case, aggression, toughness, and a callousness in regard to other people's feelings may be highly valued. Values, then, come from "valueing" and from reflection. They are reinforced to grow in intensity partially by the way in which we plan group. In a Mormon setting he would gain acceptance and recognition by his group through observing the Word of Wisdom. In this case, the two values would reinforce each other, and his course of action in observing the Word of Wisdom would help him achieve both goals. However, if this person were placed in another setting in which certain practices were valued by the group which were contrary to the Word of Wisdom, he would be faced with conflicting values. He would then be forced to choose between engag- 860 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 ing in the kind of behavior which would gain him acceptance with the group and break the Word of Wisdom, or observe the Word of Wisdom and lose the acceptance of his group. In this case, the course of action will be determined by which value is ranked highest. Internalized Values The discussion of conflicting values suggests that values vary in quality and intensity. If values are to serve their most effective purpose, it is important that the values which will contribute to the personal growth and development of an individual be most deeply internalized. Otherwise, it may be easv for many an individual to be swayed with the fads and fashions of the time whether these deal with wearing apparel or political and religious philosophies. Values at first are imitated as children identify with adults whom they admire As the child grows in age, values should gradually become integrated into the personality. But only as they are carefully examined, reflected upon, and tried out will they truly become a part of the individual. As was discussed in Lesson Four of last vear's lessons concerning the individual and religious maturity, to internalize means ta make _a_part_of oneself Only as one internalizes standards and_values does he effectively live by them. If values remain in adulthood still imitative, borrowed, and verbalized, but only superficially subscribed to, the individual has not truly integrated and internalized them. This matter, therefore, should be of major concern to each individual in looking at his own values and in his responsibility of trying to grow values in his children. The meth y to help children __internalize—valucs should be carefully scrutinized. We sometimes set up creeds and dogmas which the child can question only at the price of a parentally imposed load of guilt and fear. Moral instruction alone never was and_never can be a_substit ue-religion _ of a faith based on one's own experience. The inevitable result is pretended values unsupported by that background of honestly appraised experience which is a_prerequisite for real values. Developing Value for Oneself It is important that an individual become a living participant in achieving a feeling of his own worth. Unless the child is able to accept himself, he is not able truly to. Accept others, and it makes it difficult to integrate desirable valucs. The child must be convinced that he is a good person — he must like -himself. 'The one and only person he must live with all the rest-of his days_is himself, and learning to understand, respect, and accept others is dependent upon one's own self-understanding, self-acceptance, and self-respect. The growing child's ability to accept himself and develop value for himself is influe ray he is accepted _bv othe If others like him as a child, accept him, approve of him, give him the right to try himself out and the freedom to make mistakes, it will be easier for him to acquire similar attitudes toward himself. It is hard fer the growing child, on the other hand, to view himself with approval if others reject him, punish him un- LESSON DEPARTMENT justly, imply that he is inferior to others, interfere with his endeavors to try himself out, deride him, take no notice of him, ignore him as though he did not count, or tell him he is mostly bad. A child once wrote about himself, "I'm no good; I'm stupid; I can't do anything right; things are always happening to me." Adults who lived and worked with this young boy appeared to have mislaid the basic value of respect for his human personality. Parents lay the foundation, and the child and youth in the atmosphere of the family become, as the years roll on, the builders of the emerging self. He parents with an abiding sense of their own values do not need to immortalize themselves in their children. They can give to the child their love and direction and feel the rewards in the child's growing sense of independence as he becomes an individual in his own right with the self-confidence and self-respect which is essential in order to internalize the values which will contribute to the individual's personal growth and development. While the attitudes others-show toward a person are especially important in the early stages in the < dévelopment_of the self, all people at all stages of life are responsive to the approval or disapproval of others. Developing and maintaining value for oneself, then, is a continuous and lifelong endeavor. Summary Developing and growing values both for ourselves and for our children present one of our greatest responsibilities. Values have simple beginnings in childhood as the child imitates his parents. If the maturing 861 process continues in a healthy manner, the development of valucs becomes increasingly complex so that the individual is influenced by the cultural values around him, the values of his peer group, and his own reflective thinking. Careful analysis of one's values appears to contribute to developing higher quality, more complete integration, and more effective internalization of values. Parents, therefore, should keep this fact constantly in mind so that as they proceed with their task of child-rearing, they do to provide the experiences through which these values may grow and develop. Values are never completely grown and the process finished. The active, alert person is constantly exploring, modifying, and enlarging his values as he encounters new ideas, goes through new experiences, meets new people. If he confines himself to value-ing the past or simply to perpetuate the present, thereby reinforcing the status quo, his life becomes static and dying. "The past," as Prime Minister Harold MacMillan has said, "must be a springboard and not a sofa." We need to grow values not only in relation to what man has been and is, but what he can be and is capable of becoming that is highest and best. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What are evidences of the growth of values in children? Youth? Adults? 2. Give additional illustrations of conflicting values. 3. What kinds of experiences will help internalize values? 4. Why is value of oneself so important? I Books for the Church ( ) (> 'i. Tu (@ ( ) (= ( Pianist Church Pianist— Sami 240. 1.50 Eighteen Hymn Transcriptions— Kohlmann we e.. 2 eeeenne 85 Famous Sacred Songs—Peery ---++- 125 Melodies For Church and Home—Shelley 1.00 More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann 1.00 Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz 1.50 Piano Transcriptions of Your Favorite Hymns—Parsons 1.25 Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Schaum 85 Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Stickles 1.25 ) Sacred Piano Album for Home and Church—Gahm 1.50 Sacred Piano Solos— Rettenberg -------- 1.00 Sabbath Day Music— Randolph 0 - 2 -+ 1.50 Sunday Piano Music —Boston o cteceeeeeeeeeeeeeeee L 25 Tranquil Hours— Pi@eser d.---- 1.50 Twenty-Four Voluntaries—Stickles - 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank i DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah (1) On Approval -] Charge 4 1 1 1 I 1 I!!! Please send the music indicated above. 1 ]! [1 Money Enclosed I I 1 1 I 1 I 1 1 Cee err rere rrr rrr rr tte eee errr rrr rs I V Address ooo cescscccecccccecececoccosencecccccsenscenceeees p City & State ooo eee essseesessceeessceesseceee Page 862 15 E. Ist South A salt Lake City 11, Utah Thankfulness Christie Lund Coles I thank thee, Lord, for all the good The year has brought to me and mine. I thank thee for the wealth of joy That traced the human with divine. I thank thee for the moments when Our triumphs were richer than defeat; The roads we walked with surety, With steady and unfaltering feet. And yet, I thank thee, too, O Lord, For hours when the road was dark; When gloom engulfed our path, and hop: Succumbed to fear, enormous, stark; When sorrow gnawed its aching way Into our being, and we fought To maintain soul tranquility. With such as these new strength was bought, Assuring us that night would rise To morning and its splendor, bright; That every dark, prophetic cloud Wears its antithesis of light. 1 thank thee, Lord, for all thy good, And all is good at long, long last. Be mindful of us in this year, As in the year so newly passed. December Road Katherine F. Larsen A long road calls me When the white drifts fill The narrow lane, and winter-heavy Gray skies spill Snowflakes in profusion, Shrouding fences, trecs, until No road can be seen Where ran the once-known road. A long road calls me, Winter-muffled, white and still FREE TRAVEL Now is the time to plan your trip. Just clip and mail attached coupon for literature on any destination in the world. Our special tours include: @ Christmas Holiday— Rose Parade Tours Orient in the Spring Historic Tours of the U. S. Europe Mexico South America Hawaii Around the World INFORMATION lam planning a trip to 2 00 eeeeeee ee during the month of eeeeeeeeeee L]! Would like to go with an escorted tour.

[] We plan to travel independently, but would like all arrangements made plus professional advice at no extra cost.