[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Christmas | Author: Crawford]
These are not <>< Christmas for the Children HE first Christmas, with its worship and its singing, its fulfillment and its promise, brought the Magi of the East to the manger place, and the shepherds from the hills, to worship a newborn Child, the Savior of the world. When the Child became a man and walked the hills and valleys of the Holy Land, bringing to the earth his message of eternal life, he called the children to him and blessed them. In the long years since that star-illumined night, many people have forgotten the meaning of Christmas and have retained only its symbols, and even these have been changed. But the children are the same as in ancient times — they are the same the world over. Their minds are eager and receptive, to them the world is new and full of wonder. So lately come from their Father in heaven, they seem to be hearing still the voices of the angels. 'hese little ones are capable of understanding much more about Christmas than they can learn from seeing the glowing trees, the lighted windows, or from hearing the bells and the carols. Even small children can experience a Christmas that can give them a basis for knowing that the Babe of Bethlehem was the Messiah, the Lord of this world, and their Redeemer. Let the children hear for themselves the words from the Bible: 'Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east." But these wise men came for greater learning, for they had not discovered the way in which the children of earth could return to their Heavenly Father and live with him forever. This message was brought to the earth by Jesus and through him we may return to that home which was ours in the beginning. Let us cherish each moment with the children that the glory of the first Christmas may become for them the reality of reverence and rejoicing. —V. P. C. She Need Js Urgent A Message I'rom the National Tuberculosis Association Submitted by Franklin K. Brough Executive Director, Utah Tuberculosis and Health Association HERE'S a killer loose, and if we don't nail him quickly, we may never get him. The killer is the tuberculosis germ. We have the weapons —modern drugs. We must use them now or we may not have another chance. Drugs that fight discase when they're first used sometimes fail to work after awhile because the germs develop defensive tactics. If that happens with the 'TB germ before the thousands of people with active clisease are found and treated, we shall have lost our opportunity to wipe out this dread disease. Remember that TB is infectious. Once person who has it can give it to many others, who in turn may infect still more people. Right now, thirty-six million Americans are infected with the TB germ. Based on what is happening today, it ls estimated that about 156,000 of these infected people will break down with active tuberculosis during the next four or five years. Many of the rest of them may well develop active discase ten or twenty years from now and become a source of new infections far into the future. The tuberculosis problem is so crucial nght now that the U. S. Public Health Service and the National Tuberculosis Association held a conference at Arden House, in Harriman, N. Y., to find ways of dealing with it. 'They recommended an all-out country-wide community effort to find all people with active TB and treat them with modern drugs until they are no longer infectious. This is vital, urgent work. Your Christmas Seal contribution can do alot to help. Send it today to your local 'Tuberculosis Association, Christmas IMlorning Child Ethel Jacobson The laden tree is dazzling, Its strings of tinsel drip; And colored baubles glisten, And a star shines from the tip. Lights glow like golden sparklers Where glittering toys he piled, But nothing's quite so shining As a Christmas mornmg child. Page 820 CHRISTMAS TREATS FOR COMPANY 823 Courtesy California Dried Fruit Research Institute RAISIN SURPRISES Pecan Filling: 1 large egg, beaten with fork "" tsp. Vanilla % c. Brown sugar, packed % c. Chopped pecans Combine ingredients thoroughly, and use as directed on previous page. RaAIsIn SURPRISES Pastry: 2 c. Sifted all-purpose flour ¥ c. Shortening 1 tbsp. Sugar % c. Milk 3% tsp. Baking powder melted butter (or substitute) "2 tsp. Salt granulated sugar Sift flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt into mixing bowl. Cut in shortening until in small pieces. Add milk and mix to moderately stiff dough. Turn out onto lightly floured board, knead once or twice, then roll out to an oblong about 12 x 9 inches (dough will be about %-inch thick). Cut into 12 squares (about 3 inches). Raisin Filling: Mix together until blended 1 c. Light or dark raisins, 4 c. Brown sugar (packed), 1 tsp. Cinnamon, and 2 tbsp. Melted butter or margarine. Sufficient for one dozen surprises. Drop spoonful of raisin filling in center of each square. Bring the four corners of each square together and twist lightly at the top. Place in greased medium-sized muffin cups. Brush each "surprise" with melted butter (or substitute) and sprinkle with sugar. Bake at 400°F. For 15 to 20 minutes. She Srees the Family lTlade Helen S. Williams ards, and gardens, while some spread their wide branches to give shade from scorching summer suns. The trees of springtime, with their delicate blossoms of pink and white, are harbingers of the bright luscious fruit of autumn days. Whether trees are the silver-trunked aspens of the mountains, with their trembling leaves, or the dark, velvety sentinel pines of the forest, nature has made them beautiful to behold, and man stands in wonder at God's handiwork. As Yuletide approaches, the season during which the Christian world celebrates Christ's birth, a tree becomes a symbol. Nations, countries, communities, and families have their own traditions about Christmas trees, and throughout the world grandparents and parents pass on to their children and grandchildren, customs, stories, decorations, and ideas which keep alive the warmth and glow of the Christmas tree. The Christmas tree truly becomes a family affair, as little ones, with father and mother, pop corn and string chains of the white kernels, or string cranberries on branches or hang rock candy, frosted cookies, Or peppermint canes on the soft green boughs. Whether the decorations are precious old-fashioned ones, gay, new icicles smoothed and hung just so, or the modern exotic balls of colored glass, or those made of velvet and sequins, the decorating becomes a joyous pastime when each and every member of the family takes a part Page 824 Big grow in woods, in orchin creating a tree of loveliness and beauty. The tree the family makes becomes not only a symbol of Christmas, but an expression of family mutuality and solidarity. In Florence Williams' family is an example of the old axiom that a family which works and plays and laughs together stays together, and is bound by lasting ties of loving affection, spirit, and interests. As Christmas draws near, Florence goes to the homes of each of her children laden with materials to help with ideas, to work with them, and to give guidance, for she has had years of expericnce in decorating and making unusual Christmas articles. At the home of son Richard and his wife, Marion, at Christmas time, there will be a most unusual Christmas tree on their front door with two glamorous ball trees at either side of the doorway as pictured. Each and every member of the family helped in one way or another to create these trees. Mother Marion and Grandmother Florence assembled all the materials. When everything was in readiness the family all gathered in the work room, and the fun of making the family tree began. Father was supervisor and consulting engineer and really did most of the hard, intricate work. First, he cut a piece of styrofoam in the shape of a perfect Christmas tree. Ricky, aged eighteen, aided by Florence, drilled small holes through hazel, Brazil, almond, pecan nuts, walnuts, and peanuts. 'This was accomplished with a very fine dll.