thy of preservation. As moral teachings they have their place in the affairs of mankind. They sought to inculcate industry, frugality, filial obedience; and these precepts of course, are of value. As a system of religion, however, they do not meet the needs of the spirit. Here are four of them from the writings of Confucius:
"Beware of doing to another what you would not that others should do to you."
"To know what we know, and to know what we do not know, is knowledge."
"The filial son is one who gives his parents no anxiety but for his health."


"If you guide the people by laws, and enforce the laws by punishment, they will lose the sense of shame and seek to evade them; but if you guide them by virtuous example, and diffuse among them love of order, they will be ashamed to transgress."
When we remember that Confucius lived some five hundred years before the Christian era, these maxims are not so bad. The first is a statement of the Golden Rule in the negative sense; the last might well be adopted by governors of men for their own guidance. In truth, throughout all the centuries of Chinese development, the cultivation of the spirit of classical reflection came to be the very soul of the nation, so that the scholars, or "literati," grew to symbolize the pinnacle of achievement. All other professions ranked inferior to these; and through all the ups and downs of changing fortune, this was the class that moulded and directed the ultimate course of public events. From time to time, some far-seeing ruler tried, in vain, to break the power of the "literati." In 221 B. C., Huang-ti, the Napoleon of China, decreed the destruction of all books without exception, and sought to put to death all "literati" who were depositaries of ancient traditions. So many other enlightened leaders have attempted to reshape this fixity of thought to more progressive standards, but with little success. Even Christianity, after centuries of active proselyting and the expenditure of vast funds, has been confronted by the dead wall of negation, and has caused, as yet, scarcely a ripple on the broad sea of Chinese life. It is a difficult task to reason with a philosopher.
THE FLOWERY KINGDOM 549
Many things of material value have been contributed by China to the world. The invention of gunpowder, the mariner's compass, even printing, has been attributed, by many authorities, to the Chinese. Also, some wonderful examples in decorative work on silks and china. The construction of the Grand Canal, 1,200 miles long, the building of the Great wall, 1,500 miles in length, are tributes to their engineering skill, especially when we consider that these two gigantic works were executed many centuries ago. China exports many commodities, the most famous of which is tea. The country is rich in minerals and flora, but these sources of wealth have been largely neglected until late years. The present trouble in China is a matter of statesmanship. China is coming to some degree of knowledge of modern progress. The Chinese naturally resent the attempts of recent years to reduce them to vassalage. They were civilized when Europe was in a state of barbarism. All they now need is the friendly understanding and assistance of their brothers of the Occident.
The twelve persons who comprised the Japanese Mission from June, 1902, to September, 1903: President Heber J. Grant, his wife