LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in December)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR DECEMBER?THE HOME
IDEALS OF A LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME
Summary
"My son, hear the instructions of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother, for they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck; bind them continually upon thy heart, and tie them around thy neck."
"Youth is the period of discipline; and discipline, true and thorough, is a blessing that lasts beyond this life."
Character building is the most important and most satisfactory work a home can do. Habits and ideals formed in the home will influence the destiny of its members. How vital is the parental problem! It is within the possibilities of the home to be so conducted that it will impart a love of righteousness and justice to all, and the every day necessity of self control. The home should be a center of culture and refinement; here the value of faith and virtue should be implanted, and an inspiration to a strong purpose and a lofty aim.
The home should disseminate amongst its members a true
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 563
spirit of helpfulness, and a willingness to perform the duties of life for which God has given them power. Within the home should be the spirit of brotherly love, to be generously used in the affairs of life, both private and public. The Word of Wisdom should be the dominant note in the health program of the home. All should be taught to know the truth and act in accordance with its dictates. By example teach the value of industry and thrift, "The hand of the diligent maketh rich." Teach and uphold the sacredness of marriage and the evils of divorce. "Man is that he may have joy:" What greater joy than to be of value and service in the community. "God has given you yourselves, now what will you do with this gift."
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in December)
GLADYS ANN WAGSTAFF
Gladys Ann Wagstaff, a poet who has brought to herself considerable honor and to the people who read her poems joy and enrichment of life, was born in Salt Lake City August 9, 1900. She obtained her education in the public schools of Salt Lake, the Salt Lake High School, and later in the University of Utah. She left the University of Utah to take a business course and for a number of years was serving the business world. At odd moments in her life she found time to write poetry. When just a tiny girl she took, she says, "immeasurable delight" in competing in poetry contests and the like. This competitive activity won for her buttons, badges, and small monetary prizes, all of which sent her "winging to the Seventh Heaven." Sensitive to joys and sorrows, she spent "many childhood hours plunged into darkest depths over some imagined hurt which a 'thoroughly normal' child would have utterly overlooked." Painful as these hours were to her, she realizes, as many other artists have realized, that of her sensitive emotions her poetry is born. To use her own words, she says, "I attribute that ability to feel as wholly responsible for my first gropings for expression. Not for just a passing whim, surely, did God imbue me with highly sensitized emotions. Consequently, on those rare occasions when 'inspiration' really comes, expressing the feeling in verse comes as easily as the unfolding of a flower. Writing, for me, when inspired, requires no striving."


Since leaving school our author has taken several courses in the construction of poetry?endeavoring to master technique and the forms and beauty of poems written by the old masters. In addition to all of the local papers, her verse has appeared in The New York Times, The San Francisco Examiner, The Long Beach Telegram, The Chicago Daily News. In standard periodicals such as: Good Housekeeping, The Delineator, College Humor, Love Story Magazine, Motion Picture Magazine, Vogue, St. Nicholas, and in many poetry journals, The Lariat, Lyric West, Palms, etc. Gladys Ann Wagstaff was married to Earl William Pinney August 18, 1926. She has a daughter born April 10, 1928. The Lilac appealed to Miss Wagstaff. As a result we have "Lilac-Time," which we include.
LILAC-TIME
Tonight, My garden is a place of rapturous delight, For every blossom-laden lilac bush Lifts tapered, scented fingers To the far stars! A young, May moon, Caught like a silvered, slim canoe In the topmost branches of a tall birch, Gives to each fragrant, flowering tree A shadow lovelier than itself!
Tonight, There is a soft stir of something glad And gently gay in the sweet stillness

Odorous blooms of phantom purple breathe Into the mauve, suede shadows by the wall An aromatic scent. White pebbles in the path Gleam mistily. Two scarlet tulips are Romancing gypsies in the moon's pale light!
Tonight, The lilac branches sway small, incensed urns? My garden is a place of mystical delight

"Enchantment," which we include, breathes the charm of April days.
ENCHANTMENT
One whole, green-gold, enchanted April day, In gay abandonment I threw away. All day, not one thing useful did I do, Just dreamt the blossom-scented hours through.
I found a hillock, low and warm with grass, And lay and watched the winged, wild things pass;
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 565
I listened to
the thrill in a bird's call And saw a shower of cherry petals fall. A shy wind from out of woodland spaces Brought violet fragrance from mossy places. And the April mist in the springtime sky Gold-powdered the clouds as they drifted by. Life and its problems were all lost to me, I saw only loveliness?lazily? Green boughs, gold sky, and lilting, wild bird call, And I, enchanted?glad?and that was all! In the nature group we include also "Lake Mary." This lake has appealed to a number of our Utah painters. We are delighted to have it make appeal to one of our Utah poets. LAKE Mary Poised like a jewel in a crown of pines, Worn on the brow of earth, Emerald green 'neath the noonday sun, Rose-gray at the day's chill birth. Calm, when the moon leaps up from the crags To the sky's starlit pathway, shimmering, Touching with wave-lips the shadowy forms Of the mirrored pines' silvered glimmering. But reaching out for the sheltering shore When the wild-winged things at the morn Cry challenge?and small things hide away And wave lips from pine shadows are torn! Love songs appeal to our auther rather frequently. A very outstanding poem is "A Love Song," after the Chinese, which we include. A Love Sone (After the Chinese) In the golden morning I walk down by the river side, A thousand silver butterflies cling to the water flowers And the lacquered petals of the lilies open in shy delight. In my enchantment I see strange flowers that are like thy face And the sound of the water is like the whispering of thy voice, And the sound of the wind in the marshes is thy voice, calling. Thou art tall among thy kind, as the water willows, Tall as the green rushes and luscious as the Springtime; Thine eyes are as the twilight over a summer sea And thy lips are as the peach blossom, flower pink. Thy breath is as the perfume of my garden? I dream?I dream amidst invisible fragrances. * * * 
 In the cool of the evening I walk beside the lake, I walk in solitude and regard disconsolately the images? The shadowy images of flowers and reeds in the still water. There is the delicate promise of Springtime in the silence, But I am apart from the Springtime?for I am old. I am as old as the idol of Lo Han Dung upon the Emeporor's palaces, In my desolation I see not the pale stars in the violet sky, I see only the grace of thy body as the willows Sway. Afar the voices of the flower girls are singing in delight, Their hands, lotus drenched, weave the song as they sing; Their tiny, scarlet feet dance upon innumerable petals, And thou, who should now walk beside me?art among them. A poem published in the Ladies' Home Journal in 1925 entitled "To the Diva Mother" will find quick response in the hearts of all who read it. It was written to Madame Ernestine SchumannHeink, during her concert given for the Disabled Veterans of the World War, in Salt Lake City, June 23, 1924. To The Diva Mother I was one in that great throng Of yesterday, Filling the vast tabernacle With a surge of patriotic memories; And I stood between two veterans Blinded?both, And heard you sing. While all the tears within my being Swelled into a sob against my throat As the first note of "Taps" Slips from your lips? Sweet Touching to life A thousand poignant memories And made them live again Within the breasts Of those two buddies. I closed my eyes And stood there?blinded, too * * * Then, leaning close, That scarred and aching "Vet" Of the World War? With tears upon his wounded face Said brokenly: "God! Ain't she great!" GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 567 We published "Those Yonder Hills" in the Relief Society Magazine for June, 1927. The author furnishes us with this note concerning that poem. "The mountains written of are the Wasatch range of eastern Utah. In early Spring they appear as though great patches of snow has remained from the winter months. Snow, indeed! Waxen, fragrant snow?myriads of pure white Sego Lilies (the State flower of Utah) growing in massed profusion over the hills!
We are closing our group of poems with a Thanksgiving Song.
THANKSGIVING SONG
Not for the great gifts you have given, God, Nor for Your eternal mercy, this song; For these You've known my heart's deep gratitude. But for the little joys the whole day long, The small delights that crowd through every hour, And ecstasies that bless my Everyday? The little, home-sweet joys which mean so much? For these, dear God, in humble thanks I pray:
For the pale, primrose breaking of the dawn, Sifting to gold upon my window sills, Bronzing the elm's last brave and clinging leaves And building burnished castles of the hills;
For the spicy, rain-sweet November air Pressing my eyelids at an open door, And for the early sunlight, hesitant, Offering shy friendliness upon my floor;
For the warmth and comfort of thought-filled rooms And things dear loved?a slender, teakwood stand Upon which sits a smug, green Chinese god, Exhaling incensed breath upon my hand,
His eyes, triumphant and intolerant, Bring memories of a slow, southern sea? Of grave, Chinese philosophy which says: "Love lives, endures through all Eternity, Life is but a jest for idle lovers * * * "
Beside a favorite book, a bowl of blue Brimming with gold-lipped, fringed chrysanthemums; And dusk?within this room?the soft mauve hue Of twilight creeping down against the hills, And starlight loveliness when day is done? The hushed serenity. For these, dear God! For these?and for the smile of my loved one!
What we enjoy particularly about Gladys Ann Wagstaff's poems is her ability to make clear the lovely picture her mind


conceives through tender, colorful words. There is a gentle sweetness in all she writes that is refreshing and refining to the soul.
RUTH HARWOOD
Ruth Harwood is the daughter of J. T. Harwood, the well-known Utah painter and Harriet Richards Harwood. She tells us that it is not surprising that she should have a taste for sketching and drawing because of her father's recognized talent and the fact that her mother, too, was gifted in this line. That her mother was gifted in sketching should not be a surprise to our readers for Ruth Harwood's mother is of the same family as Lee Greene Richards, the well known portrait painter of Utah. In the December, 1927, issue of The School Arts Magazine Miss Harwood has given us a unique statement of her life which we include.
"I believe that fortune has smiled on me doubly in making it possible for me to earn the necessary bread and meat of life at one art while the other can be kept sacred and undisturbed by any grind of existence.
"As my father and mother were artistic, the desire to draw came both hereditarily and environmentally but that more precious spark of poetry came unexpectedly and has cast a secret glamor over the world ever since.
"Lyrics do not flow as readily to the happy heart as to the wistful and so in more prosaic hours one branches into long narrative poems, and short stories and even embryo novels.
"Then there are drawings, decorative designs with beautiful dancing figures illustrating poetry themes, to be made. There is a whole world of these fancies to be born yet, but some day, perhaps, the workmanship will come.
"The days go on, working, living, and once in a while there is a red-letter day. It was such a day when the word first came that the annual poetry prize of the University of Utah had been given to me?just for the happy songs I had woven together for myself. That was the first time my songs had ever reached out and brought me happiness.
"There was another such day when there came word that a student in the art department of the University of California had won the yearly poetry prize. So many coveted friends came to me on the wake of that success, and then, my mother was alive to be happy too.
"Then there was a turbulent year filled with romance and my first taste of death. I dressed one day in a black shroud, marched around with many others in a sweltering heat and came home with M. A. In art from the University of California. That was the first time my mother was not there to rejoice too, but my father was there, kind and patient, trying to take the place of both.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 569
"A wonderful red-letter day when a librarian friend showed me a book from London of a hundred best poems of the year from English and American writers and there was my name and one of my poems. Lesser red-letter days scattered along with poems and drawings and articles appearing here and there in magazines! Always working eagerly, impulsively and dreaming of bigger things!
"This summer another shining day with word that the prize for the best sonnet on Browning from the Poetry Society of America was for me. I immediately burst into a dozen more sonnets.
"You ask my hobby. My profession is art, my ambition writing, so perhaps my little house is the hobby. I love it that much. If it looked the way I would want, it would have arches and a swooping roof and a host of modern conveniences inside as I do not crave domestic pursuits.
"But the supreme view! Fifteen feet of window toward the bay and at night Berkeley, and Oakland and Richmond twinkling below as far as the eye can see * * * then the black water and the soft glory of San Francisco in the distance and over all a dome of stars, except when the fog creeps in and wraps its fingers around the hilltop.
"My father, one of Utah's finest artists and art director of its state University, has been such a blessing in reclaiming the small garden spot from the wild brush and rabbits that skip about ready for any chance green that may be struggling for existence.
"Two years now I have been away teaching art, one as supervisor of art in the New Mexico State Teacher's College and one as design instructor in the University of Utah. That is a long time to be away from California and what joy it will be to be back on the hilltop with my friend and my work and my poet self."
This summer Miss Harwood has been abroad with her father, an experience which will be enriching to one gifted as she is gifted. She tells us she makes her living through her sketching and that writing poetry is a diversion that feeds her soul. As she feeds her own soul so does she feed the souls of others. A poem known as "The Shoe Factory" (Song of the Knot-Tyer) has proved to be the most popular of Miss Harwood's poems. It is a poem that dignifies manual labor. Consequently we hail it with pleasure. It was published first in "Poetry," and was selected by an English anthologist for publication in his volume, "The Best Poems of 1922." It was conceived after a visit to a shoe factory by a psychology class for the purpose of investigating some phases of mental reaction. It may be found in Stevenson's Home Book of Verse?and Cooper's Poems of Youth.
THE SHOE FACTORY (Song of the Knot-Tyer)
They told me When I came That this would be drudgery, Always the same Things over and over Day after day? The swift movement In the same small way.
Pick up, Place, Push, And it's tied, Take off, Cut, And put It aside.
Over and over, In rhythmical beat? Some say it is drudgery, But to me it is sweet.
Pick up, Place, Push, And it's tied, Outdoors The sky Is so blue And so wide!
It's a joyous song Going steadily on, Marching in measures Till the day is gone.
Pick up, Place, Push, And it's tied, Soon end Of day Will bring him To my side.
Oh, I love the measures Singing on so fast, Speeding happy hours Till he comes at last!


GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 571
Among Miss Harwood's numerous poems is one entitled "Silver Morning," which we feel sure will appeal to our readers.
SILVER MORNING
God has dipped this morning In a silver pool, And left it iridescent, Glistening and cool.
All the sky is silver, And the hills between Veil their verdant beauty With a silver sheen.
Even buds are silver On the waking trees, And the larks discover Silver melodies.
And the rippling river Croons a silver song To the sentient willows As it purls along.
And the shining morning That must pass so soon Leaves a silver echo In my lilting tune.
The Acacia seems to have made very special appeal to Miss Harwood as she writes a poem entitled "Acacia Rapture."
ACACIA RAPTURE
It matters not how many years Of waking springs I see, Each fresh time there appears Acacia with its wealth of golden filigree I stand before it, rapture mad, As to some deity.
I fancy that the fervent earth Has climbed all year to this, And that acacias in their worth Are to her as the utmost kiss.
It matters not how many years The gold acacias break, They make me mad and glad to tears, And turn me robber for their sake.


She refers to California in a poem called "Yearning" which we include.
YEARNING
O to be in California in the spring! While torpid earth is held in winter shrouds, To see her wreathe herself in pearly clouds And break into a song of burgeoning!
And O, to watch the barren hills unfold; First comes the mossy carpeting of green, Fog-misted, sometimes, to a silver sheen, And then to watch them flare to mauve and gold!
And O, to see acacias burst in bloom, Like clustered sunshine billowing the trees, To hear the droning music of the bees, And scent the air weighed heavy with perfume!
To think she's showing now her pageantry In all the glory of spring's verdant dress And flinging, open-armed, her loveliness! To think of spring! * * * And I not there to see!
Also a poem entitled
PASTEL
To keep this evening's loveliness I seek, This sunset hour in my garden spent, Among my iris where each purple cheek Of velvet softness lulls me with content.
A hush of happiness has seemed to fall About my garden. Bloom and brush and tree Have felt the magic touch transforming all Into a misty quiet harmony.
O, sweet, my garden lit with sunset rose! O, soft, the blossoms folding close for sleep! O, frail, my song that strives before it goes This evening's pastel loveliness to keep!
Her poem entitled "Vagabond Song" carries in its lines the abandoned joy of one who really lives close to nature.
VAGABOND SONG
Because I have so few of goodly things That money brings, perchance the world is bold To scoff at me, because in lacking gold, I could not hope to know the joy life brings.
But O! I have a heart that gaily sings, And feet that swiftly dance, and wealth untold, For I have eyes to catch and soul to hold The gold of sunsets and the jewels of springs.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 573
And I find gems in all the stars that shine; And dazzling diamonds strung on spider's lace; And glistening silver on the water's face; And full red rubies sparkling on the vine.

I doubt if you, in any gilded place, Feel richer in your wealth than I in mine!
A poem entitled "Poetry Magic" is interesting because it really reveals something of the way in which the poet works.
POETRY MAGIC
My poetry Is like a magic wizardry. For with deft hands I pluck a few Glad-chosen words, And build for me A rainbow tinted bridge; And leave the sentient solemn earth, And dance down my fairy bridge, And find some secret glowing place Of dream-lit wonders; And wander there, And thrill and sing, And twine dream flowers in my hair, And dance and fling My carefree arms into the air.
And so?when suddenly You speak to me, You must be patient Until I can return from wanderings A thousand worlds away.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Which one of the authors uses one talent to earn a living and the other for self-expression?
2. Name the flowers that the two poets we are studying mention in their poetry.
3. Tell the circumstances under which a poem was born in the Salt Lake Tabernacle.
4. Repeat the tribute to the singer made by one of the disabled veterans.
5. What do you know about the enlistment of the sons of this singer in the World War?
6. Which poem refers to the state flower as it blooms on the mountain side? Repeat the lines that refer to the flower.


LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December)
THE CHILD STUDY COURSE
Lesson 9. Nervous and Mental Hygiene in Children.
(Based on Chapter X. The Child: His Nature and His Needs)
The last lesson?The Relation of Nutrition to Mental Development?will have convinced the reader of the general importance of mental hygiene in the life of the child. The mental hygiene movement is one of the most recent and in many ways the most important developments in the fields of psychology and education during the past twenty years. Dr. William A. White, the author of this well-written chapter, is one of the outstanding mental hygienists (sometimes called psychiatrists) in America. He is at present superintendent of the government hospital for the insane at Washington, D. C.
A. Some Principles of Mental Hygiene
Perhaps the best way to get the "meat" out of the present lesson is for the reader (and class-leader too) to select from Dr. White's chapter principles such as the following:
"Children are not just small adults." (p. 195.) "Then again, the child is not an isolated being." (p. 195.) "The whole developmental period of childhood has these two aims: the maximum unfoldment of the individual possibilities consistent with the necessary degrees of conformity to social standards." (p. 196.) "Strength of character, just like muscular strength, is developed by overcoming difficulties, not by following the path of least resistance." (p. 198.) "The impetus and initiative must come from within the child * * *" (p. 200.) "Every exaggerated character trait is evidence of an unbalanced personality make-up and is evidence also of the existence of the opposite trait." (p. 201.)
To Dr. White's excellent list of mental hygiene principles, we add a few of our own, as follows:
1. Most mental handicaps are preventable.
2. Activity is the normal characteristic of childhood; physical and mental inactivity are pathological.
3. The differences between personalities are so great as to make it dangerous to prescribe the same treatment for all individuals.
4. Mental poise is facilitated by an alternating program of work, rest, and play.
5. Almost all persons have some degree of inferiority-feeling. Compensations for actual or imagined inferiority are quite
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 575
normal. The problem of child guidance is therefore one of facilitating appropriate compensations.
6. Every child and grown-up person should experience success or superiority in some field or situation, with sufficient frequency to prevent the development of an inferiority-complex.
7. All children and grown-ups normally demand a confidante, i. e., some understanding person who will listen without moralizing.
8. Energies, impulses, etc., cannot be suppressed. They may, however, be sublimated, i. e., guided to expression on higher planes.
9. Many personality problems are overcome when the handicapped person is able, through the assistance of others, to objectify his own problems, i. e., to analyze his own difficulty as though it were the problem of another.
10. Punishment is a dubious method of dealing with children's conduct problems. The following suggestions of Felix Adler are well worth contemplating in this connection:
a. Never punish in anger. b. Distinguish between the child and the fault. c. Do not "lecture" children. d. Do not threaten them. e. While insisting upon obedience, demand nothing which is unreasonable. f. Do not employ corporal punishment; it tends to brutalize the child, to break his spirit, and to weaken his sense of shame.
QUESTIONS
1. Why is mental health more important than physical health?
2. How do you explain the increasing interest in mental hygiene?
3. What does Dr. White mean by the phrase (p. 197) "reality may be overwhelming?"
4. What is a feeling of inferiority? What are its causes? What types of inferiority feeling (popularly called "complexes") have you observed in children and adults? How should a child with an inferiority feeling be dealt with in his home and in the school?
5. How are "phantasy" related to inferiority feelings?
6. Is wholesome personality in a child as important as his mastery of the three R's? Then why do we fail to emphasize and train for it in our schools?
B. A Good Book for Parents
There has been so much written on mental hygiene that is either over-technical or unsound that we are giving a short review of "incorrigibility" and "bad habits"


or synopsis of a recent book which we can safely recommend for further reading by the parent with an especially difficult problem-child. The book is written by Dr. Erwin Wexberg, and is called Your Nervous Child: A Guide for Parents and Teachers (New York: Albert & Charles Boni, 178 pp., $1.75.)
Dr. Wexberg speaks as a physician. He had a wide experience with children's cases in Vienna, where he was associated with the famous Dr. Alfred Adler. The book comprises three well-rounded chapters on the symptoms, causes, and treatment of nervousness in children. While the manifestations of nervousness may take the form of disturbances of nutrition and urination, night terrors, stuttering, masturbation, lying, etc., the basic condition is that of "a child who has lost courage to fight his way through, or is struggling along the wrong road."
Chief among the causes of nervousness in children, Wexberg lists: The Feeling of Inferiority, The Fatherless Boy, The Youngest Child, The Only Child, Sex, The Spoiled Child, Egoism of Parents, Vain Mothers. With almost uncanny insight he explains how bodily infirmities (such as hare-lip, prominent ears, protracted sickliness) strengthen the feeling of inferiority and cause the child to be nervous. It is not too much to say that the author's discussion of sex as a cause of nervousness and psychic homo-sexuality, is the best and most straight-forward thing anywhere in print accessible to the layman.
The chief prophylaxis and cure for nervousness in children (except, of course, where it is due to organic causes) Wexberg insists is "correct" education, the task of which is "to do everything that can help a child become an independent and courageous man * * * ready and prepared to adapt himself to the community to which he belongs, and to render his best service where he has chosen to serve." Independence and courage are the keynotes of this "correct" education. The author is averse to marks and reports, yet he would "blame mildly and praise in a friendly fashion." He adduces new arguments against all forms of punishment and shows the futility of moralizing. He concludes his effective plea for freedom and the early psychological weaning of the child with the rather startling statement that "children should be treated as adults, not as children."
There is only one important point upon which we differ with Dr. Wexberg and that is in regard to his assumption that only the physician is competent to deal with these common (functional) forms of nervousness in children. If parents and teachers cannot sooner or later learn to deal with most of these difficulties themselves, then progress under our system of family life is impossible. Such intelligent understanding of these matters on the part of the average parent, is, after all, the real reason for the parental movement.

L. D. S. GARMENTS Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight... 95 264 Rayon Silk $2.50 208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt... 1.45 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2.25 32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt.. 1.50 748 Unbleached Cot.; Hvy. Wt... 2.00 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes........ 1.65 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.25 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95 + 2 acl 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt......... 230 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt... 1.85 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton....... 4.00 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years L