Captain Roald Amundsen
As we dictate this editorial, additional evidence is at hand from the discovery of the Amundsen plane that he and his companions died in their heroic attempt to rescue Nobile, the Italian aviator, and his company. In the passing of Captain Amundsen one of the most courageous of the earth has gone to another sphere. His behavior has been that of one who appears to have the blood of the old Nor-
EDITORIAL 543
wegian vikings in his veins. The discoverer of the South Pole, in 1911, his voice has been heard in many countries, relating the thrilling incidents of the adventure that proved so tragic for Scott and his party. In the summer of 1925 Amundsen attempted to reach the North Pole in a plane. For a number of days he was lost, and great was the anxiety throughout the civilized world. However, anxiety was finally relieved by the discovery of his whereabouts. It was our good fortune to be in Norway during that season, and this is what occurred. His entry into the City of Oslo was dramatic. Not far from the palace of the king a huge platform was erected, where a thousand men, many with trained voices, formed an immense glee club. It was arranged that Amundsen should circle the city and alight at close range. As the plane descended, the chorus began singing the Norwegian national song. A few moments after this reception, in which a very large number of people of the nation took part as spectators, Amundsen was received by the king; and the next day, surrounded by high state officials, and persons interested in his own particular line, he was given a dinner in the royal palace. The whole civilized world would have been joyous to have taken part in that demonstration and now, with Norway, all the civilized world mourns his loss. Yet his death was just such a death as one would imagine would befall him; for the same courage that carried him on to discovery and conquest lured him to his death. He has both lived and died that the unknown might become the known. The Italian people and the Norwegian people are different in temperament, different in race, different in language, different in religion, but there was that human quality binding man to man that overcame all these differences. If it can be said with truth that Charles Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic to Paris has bound continent to continent and has been a means of establishing peace and good will, it can just as truly be said that Amundsen's death has performed the same high and noble service for humanity, and that international differences should disappear in the light of noble sacrifice?the highest evidence of great and abiding love.