Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
Schedule of dates and program for Relief Society Conferences to be held in connection with the Priesthood Conventions during October, November and December, 1928.
DATES
October 13-14?Benson, Nevada, No. Sevier, Tintic, Tooele, Woodruff, Yellowstone. October 20-21?Cassia, Curlew, Lost River, Lyman, Malad, Summit, Wayne. October 27-28?Bannock, Burley, Emery, Hollywood, Twin Falls. November 3-4?Alberta, Beaver, Blaine, Duchesne, Lethbridge, Roosevelt, Shelley, St. Johns. November 10-11?Bear River, Idaho Falls, Portneuf, Snowflake, So. Sevier, Taylor, Teton, Uintah. November 17-18?Big Horn, Garfield, Idaho, Maricopa, Oneida, Panguitch, San Francisco. November 24-25?Bear Lake, Juarez, Kanab, Los Angeles, Parowan, Pocatello, Rigby, So. Sanpete, St. Joseph. December 1-2?Boise, Franklin, Gunnison, Juab, Millard, Moapa, San Juan, Wasatch. December 8-9?Minidoka, Montpelier, No. Sanpete, San Luis, Star Valley, St. George, Union, Young, Raft River. December 15-16?Blackfoot, Carbon, Deseret, Fremont, Hyrum, Morgan, Sevier.
RELIEF SOCIETY PROGRAM
SATURDAY RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
10:00-11:20 a. m. (For all women of the stake)
Congregational Singing, "Scatter Seeds of Kindness"......No. 5, R. S. Song Book Greeting and Report (10 minutes).....R. S. Stake President Educational Work in the Relief Society (10 minutes).....Stake Board Member Reports from Ward Presidents (30 minutes) Remarks (15 minutes)..............General Board Member Duet or Chorus, "Gentle Words"....No. 118, R. S. Song Book
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 555
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS' MEETING
11:20 a. m.-12:30 p. m. (For stake presidency and secretary-treasurer only)
Instructions (15 minutes)............General Board Member New Plan for Visiting Teachers (20 minutes)............General Board Member Miscellaneous (10 minutes)
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
2:00-3:00 p. m. (For all women of the stake)
Congregational Singing, "Make the World Brighter".....No. 197, S. S. Song Book New Plan for Visiting Teachers (20 minutes)............General Board Member Standards of Child Care (25 minutes). General Board Member. Ladies' Trio, "Sunrise and You."
STAKE AND WARD OFFICERS' MEETING
3:00-4:00 p. m. (Bishops especially invited)
Social Problems: a. How to Cooperate with County Charity Department (15 minutes)..General Board Member b. Care of Defective Children (20 minutes)..............General Board Member c. Importance of Monthly Consultation Between Bishop and Ward Relief Society President (15 minutes)....Ward Bishop Miscellaneous (10 minutes)
STAKE BOARD MEETING
7:00-8:30 p. m. (For stake board members only)
Questionnaire (35 minutes)..........General Board Member Responsibility and Duty of Class Leaders (15 minutes)....General Board Member Report on Care of the Aged (15 minutes). Stake Board Member Miscellaneous.


Northwestern States Mission.
MAY DAY FESTIVAL, VANCOUVER RELIEF SOCIETY
Throughout British Columbia, Canada, it is customary to celebrate May Day with a festival; accordingly, the Vancouver Relief Society, with Mrs. Mary R. Leadbetter as president, held a very interesting party. The young women of the branch were given tickets to sell, and the one selling the largest number of tickets was crowned Queen of the May. Five entered the contest and sold tickets amounting to $72.50. The other four were maids of honor. The affair was very successful, and brought out many visitors as well as members.
Lost River Stake.
The presentation of a pageant was a feature of the annual social of the Lost River stake Relief Society, which was held June 27, 1928. The pageant for Lost River stake by Lottisa Pratt, was adapted from "Onward" an epic of progress, written by Claire Stewart Boyer, for the Semi-Centennial Review of the Relief Societies of Salt Lake county, in March, 1928. The stage was beautifully decorated in the Relief Society colors, white and gold. Real yellow roses and green boughs against a pale blue background, formed an effective setting for the characters who appeared in the pageant dressed in white and yellow. In part I, the women who impersonated the six general presidents of the Relief Society appeared one by one in a frame which was in the form of a huge yellow rose. Past and present stake Relief Society presidents and counselors, and presidencies of the six ward Relief
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 557
Societies, appeared in Part II. Chorus numbers were rendered by the combined chorus from the six ward Relief Societies and the stake presidency. Dancing and refreshments followed the program. During the evening talks were given by Stake President Henry N. Mickelsen, Relief Society Stake President Mary E. Black, and others.
Portneuf Stake.
An exhibit was held in Portneuf stake, June 22, 1928, when beautiful quilts and many kinds of handwork were displayed, all of which had been made in the ward work and business meetings since November. When plans for the exhibit were first announced, last November, each ward was given a suggestive list of articles by the stake board. Garden Creek ward was awarded a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine as a prize for the best display. In appreciation of their participation in the exhibit the stake board presented each of the other wards with a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. Prizes which the stake board offered last November to the wards making the best record during the season's work in reading the Book of Mormon, were also awarded The prize for the best record made in a ward having an enrollment of more than twenty was won by Arimo, and Merrill ward was given the prize for the best record in a ward having an enrollment under twenty. Each ward in the stake furnished a number for the program, which was given in connection with the exhibit. The stake Relief Society president, Mrs. Dicy W. Henderson, gave the opening address.
North Weber Stake.
The members of Ogden Third ward Relief Society have become very much interested in the Literature lessons as a result of a poem contest conducted by the class leader, Anna Middleton. Fourteen poems were submitted by members of the class, from which three were selected by the stake board as prize winners. The first prize "One Hundred and One Famous Poems" was awarded to Elizabeth Hardman for her poem "Treasures of Gold;" a volume of poems by John Greenleaf Whittier was given as second prize to Ellen Gealta, for her poem "To My Mother;" and Myrtle Middleton Brown received a volume of poems by James Whitcomb Riley as third prize for her poem "Seagulls." This contest has created a deeper appreciation for the writings of the authors presented in the Relief Society course in literature.
New Zealand Mission.
The New Zealand Relief Society board, with Mrs. Jennie Magleby, president, conducts Relief Society work in this mission in a very efficient manner. There are about twelve members on the board, most of them Maori women. This Relief Society board


held a five-day convention last January, under the direction of Mrs. Cora F. Jenkins, who was president at that time. All the board members were present although many of them traveled from 150 to 1,300 miles in reaching Auckland and returning to their homes. The convention opened with a report and testimony meeting, followed by meetings in which every phase of Relief Society work as it is conducted in New Zealand, was discussed. Plans were made for the Relief Society meetings to be held at the Hui Tau (April conference) and committees were appointed to arrange for department work. As a result of the plans made by the board at its convention, the Relief Society meetings at the April Hui Tau were very successful. One of the general sessions was devoted to a demonstration of model lessons, and department work was managed in a very capable manner by the women in charge.