The Flowery Kingdom By Henry F. Kirkham
There is an indefinable air of mystery about the Orient that intrigues the imagination. Perhaps, to the western mind imbued with the dash and clatter of modern civilization, the subtle appearance of antiquity, the lure of strange manners, strange landscapes, strange language?all pregnant with the charm of far-off places?exerts a fascination that is difficult to resist. But be that as it may, the eyes of the Western world are again turned towards that distant eastern land?China. Here that sleeping giant of the Orient, with much stirring of recumbent limbs, is awakening from his dream of centuries; here are directed the armed ships of modern times, even as Columbus sailed his little Armada in days of long ago. China is as much a golden prize now as when it lured that great Italian under the guise of fabled Cathay. And, although not quite the land of treasures depicted by Marco Polo, still China is a mighty empire of potential wealth.
The most populous country in Asia, indeed in the world, China proper, represents an area of 1,532,000 square miles with inhabitants variously estimated at from three to four hundred millions. Including the dependencies of Manchuria, Mongolia, Thibet, and East Turkestan, with an area of 2,745,000 square miles and a population of about twenty millions, we have a combined territory of 4,277,000 square miles and a population of near four hundred million souls. When we consider that the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, has an area of only 3,624,000 square miles and not one-third the population of China, then we begin to get some idea of the immense size and possibilities of this Eastern land.
The antiquity of China is also vast as measured by Western standards. It is a well established fact that China was a fairly civilized nation, with organized government, written language, and considerable progress in the arts and sciences, two thousand years before the Christian era. Indeed, there are Chinese traditions that reach back into history six thousand years or more. And in all this time, China has been a compact, homogeneous race, having the same language, the same type of inhabitants as now. No other nation has remained so little affected by the march of time and so unchanged in racial stock as China. While it is true that several different dynasties have


sat upon the "peacock" throne, nevertheless these various ruling classes were all of the same parent stock and became speedily absorbed into the general mass. In fact, this ability of China to swallow alien people, without a touch of indigestion, has been the wonder of the world.
From whence the Chinese first came remains a mooted question. Some historians claim Chaldea as the place of their origin, pointing to the Chinese knowledge of mathematics and of astronomy as a proof of their contention. Still others hold that India was the place of their birth. But as a matter of fact, there is no clear evidence with which to support either of these claims. In truth, so lost in antiquity is the land of their origin that China might have been that very people of the "land of Nod," as of any other place. Who can tell?
The earliest Chinese seem to have been a more warlike and colonizing race than those who followed them. They came down from the interior to the sea along the fertile river valleys and finally pushed themselves over a great expanse of territory. There are some traditions, even at that early date, of other inferior tribes that they conquered and whose land they appropriated. But such people, if there were any, became quickly absorbed and so lost their identity. It was not until the introduction of the religion of Taoism and the philosophy of Confucius that the Chinese appear to have become crystallized into that fixed state of passivity which has remained the chief characteristic of the nation until this day. Taoism, in brief, taught the Oneness of life, and it firmly
THE FLOWERY KINGDOM 547
established the family unit as the fundamental basis of society. Under this conception of the universe every human soul, from peasant to prince, once formed the great one. There was to be no caste, no nobility, not even any personal God. All the earthly conduct of each individual was guided by six cardinal rules. Accordingly, all had been said that could be of moment in the affairs of man, and there was no use of inquiring for further knowledge. All that came after was but empty wind and of no value in the development of the soul. It is plain that a race imbued, nay saturated, by this strange mixture of philosophy, Buddhism, and Mohammedanism, would have no motive for exploring the unfolding panorama of truth. It was enough for their simple minds to learn well the maxims of the sages and to live accordingly in their daily life.
Many of these maxims are really wor