[WomansExponent | Vol11 | 1882 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: UTAH STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 18th Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Societies of Utah County held in
Provo City, Sept. 1st, 1882. Present on the
stand, President Margaret T. Smoot, and Coun-
selors, Secy., &c., and Sister Elmina S. Taylor,
from Salt Lake City. A few brethren of the
Priesthood were also present. Conference
opened by the usual exercises.
	Sister Smoot said, my heart is filled with
gratitude that we are permitted to meet once
more in the house of the Lord. Our reports
are of great importance and magnitude and are
made by the handmaidens of the Lord. The
minutes of our last meeting are good, and
should stimulate us to renewed energy in good
works; let us confide in the Lord, and bid de-
fiance to all who are not of him. It is an oc-
casion of rejoicing with us to-day, for we have
Sister Margaret A. Cluff with us, after an
absence of over three years. And while we
rejoice let us pray for those that are still labor-
ing in the vineyard outside Zion's borders.
Sister Mary John spoke a few words, felt
thankful that Sister Cluff was with us again,
and said she would tell us something of her
mission.
	The several Presidents of the County were
called upon to give verbal reports of the Socie-
ties over which they presided, to which they
responded, speaking in terms of praise of the
unity, and good works of the sisters that
regularly attended their meetings, but all
agreed in speaking of the faithful few whose
familiar faces greeted them at each successive
meeting. Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
Prayer by Sister Elmina Taylor.
	This afternoon session, was taken up by
the Silk Association, in order to give the
sisters, that were obliged to go home on the
afternoon train, an opportunity to see the pro-
gress that was being made in reeling silk, and
also learn the steps that were being taken to-
wards weaving the same. There was quite a
display of reeled silk on exhibition.
	The Relief Society resuming their Con-
ference, Sister E. Taylor spoke at some length
in the interests of the Deseret Hospital, its ob-
jects and aims; giving the sisters instructions
concerning their donations, and on other im-
portant subjects, etc., etc.
	Sister Margaret A. Cluff followed with some
very interesting remarks, concerning her mis-
sion to the Sandwich Islands of over three years.
Spoke of her pleasure at being permitted to
meet again with the Saints, after such a lengthy
absence. Gave an interesting account of her
journey to the Islands, and her reception by
the natives, and others, many of them ac-
quaintances made while on a former mission,
of five years duration. While there she was
appointed to preside over the Relief Societies
in all the Islands, where they were organized.
Her position was an arduous one, traveling
from island to island; and her health never
very good. The people were a good people,
easily governed, and never tired of hearing of
Zion and the people of God. The speaker
could not help feeling attached to them. They
had contributed and sent two hundred dollars
to help build the Salt Lake Temple. Spoke
quite lengthy but, our space will not permit
giving more.
	The choir sang (in honor of the return of
Sister Cluff) the hymn beginning "Midst scenes
of confusion and creature complaints." Bishop
Johnson made a few very appropriate remarks,
followed by Mother Duke and others. Pres.
M. T. Smoot said, our time has been well spent,
but let us not leave any duty undone. I pray
that the Lord may spare our lives to meet again
and again. After singing and prayer, Confer-
ence adjourned for three months. The follow-
ing is our Statistical and Financial reports for
six months:

[Column 2]
	Members, 2091; teachers, 335; meetings held
261; average attendance, 883; church papers
taken, 399; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 156. Pro-
perty on hand at last report, $7,334. 15; re-
ceipts for six months, $1,018.03; disbursements,
$951.66; to poor, $584.39; Hospital, $39.00; sun-
dry disbursements, $49.95; buildings, $24.75;
missionary, $22.40; books, $6.35; home industries
$52.32; temple $62.00; emigration $112.50. Pro-
perty on hand $7095.24. Cash on hand $305.28.
Wheat on hand 2,623 bushels, 40 lbs,
