[Vol31 | February 1944 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Home Topics Convenient]
106 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1944 
CAST  OF  PATRIOTIC  PAGEANT,  "AMERICA,  THE  LAND  OF  PROMISE," 
PRESENTED  BY  THE  SANDY  FIRST  WARD  RELIEF  SOCIETY, 
MT.  JORDAN  STAKE,  MARCH  7,  1943 
cieties  of  this  mission,  reported  April 
1,  1943,  as  follows:  "I  want  to  let 
you  know  how  well  the  program 
that  was  outlined  in  the  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine  for  March  7  was  put 
on  by  the  organizations  here  in  the 
East  Central  States  Mission.  Every- 
one seemed  to  think  that  it  was  very 
timely  and  fitting.  We  have  just  re- 
turned from  visiting  some  of  the 
branches  on  the  East  Coast  and  ev- 
ery one  commented  about  this  meet- 
ing. I  was  fortunate  enough  to  attend 
the  one  held  here  in  the  Louisville 
Branch  and  it  was  really  thrilling. 
Everything  was  carried  out  in  a  fine, 
dignified  way,  and  the  spirit  of  the 
occasion  seemed  to  be  present  with 
everyone.  We  had  some  fine  young 
servicemen  take  part  on  the  program. 
We  hope  that  we  will  have  more  out- 
lined services  for  us.   The  Relief  So- 
ciety organizations  seem  to  enjoy 
trying  to  put  on  something  of  this 
kind. 
''Our  organizations  are  doing 
splendid  work,  although  many  are 
unable  to  attend  on  account  of  the 
gas  situation,  for  even  in  organized 
branches  there  are  members  living 
quite  a  distance  from  the  churches 
or  halls.  I  am  enclosing  a  sample 
of  the  program  and  a  newspaper 
clipping  from  one  of  the  branches." 
Mt  Jordan  Stake  (Utah) 
'pHE  Sandy  First  Ward  carried 
out  the  suggested  theme  of  the 
March  7  program  in  honor  of  the 
members  of  this  ward  in  the  service 
of  their  country,  but  did  so  by  means 
of  an  original  patriotic  pageant, 
"America,  the  Land  of  Promise," 
written  by  Eileen  R.  Dunyon,  social

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD  107 
science  class  leader  of  this  ward.  The  'In  accordance  with  this  plan,  we 
accompanying  picture  of  the  cast,  held  a  meeting  in  Eureka,  one  in 
and  information  regarding  this  pag-  Goshen,  and  another  in  Santaquin. 
eant,  was  submitted  by  Harriet  Rob-  One  member  of  the  stake  Relief  So- 
inson,  president  of  the  Sandy  First  ciety  presidency  attended  each  meet- 
Ward  Relief  Society.  An  attractive  ing  and  took  charge.  We  carried  out 
printed  program  listed  the  eight  the  suggested  program  which  was 
scenes  of  the  pageant— Landing  of  sent  out  by  the  General  Board, 
the  Pilgrims,  The  Bill  of  Rights,  Re-  Stake  board  members  gave  the  talks 
cessional,  The  Sacred  Grove,  Winter  suggested  in  connection  vdth  the 
Quarters,  The  Mormon  Battalion,  symposium.  We  asked  the  ward 
Over  Seas,  and  The  American  Flag,  workers  to  assist  with  the  music  and 
The  secretary,  Stella  Thompson,  the  Scripture  reading.  Each  meeting 
who  wrote  the  report,  added:  **We  was  opened  by  congregational  sing- 
were  assisted  wholeheartedly  by.  ing  of  'Sweet  is  the  Work.'  Ward 
members  of  the  bishopric.  Boy  Scout  groups  of  Singing  Mothers  furnished 
organizations,  Mutual  Improvement  special  numbers.  Each  meeting  was 
Association,  and  Sunday  School,  closed  with  the  singing  of  'Now  Let 
There  were  approximately  three  hun-  Us  Rejoice.' 
dred  in  attendance,  a  much  larger  ..^^  announced  the  results  of  our 
Sunday  evening  gathering  than  stake  poetry  contest  in  each  meeting. 
"^"^  *  The  sister  who  contributed  the  v^dn- 
''It  is  a  pleasure  to  report  that  the  ning  poem  was  present  at  the  meet- 
Relief  Society  IS  progressing  satis-  ing  held  in  Goshen  and  gave  her 
factorily  and  meeting  all  require-  poem.  The  winning  poem  was  also 
ments  in  spite  of  the  fact  so  many  read  in  the  other  two  meetings.  We 
members  are  engaged  in  war  produc-  carried  these  meetings  out  as  nearly 
tion  work. '  alij^g  35  possible,  and  feel  that  we 
were  able  to  reach   more   members 
Santaquin-Tintic  Stake  ( Utah )  with  our  message  than  if  we  had  held 
AT  the  request  of  Vera  P.  Patten,  one  central  session  for    the    entire 
stake   Relief   Society   president,  stake." 
Counselor  Mary  E.  Allen  submitted 
the  following  report  of  the  evening  Southern  States  Mission 
Relief  Society  session  held  in  con-  TV/fARY  H.  WHITAKER,  recently 
nection  with  the  stake  quarterly  con-  l^i  released  president  of  Relief  So- 
ference  Sunday,  June  1 3,  1943 :  "In  ^^^^-^^  ^f  ^^-^  ^^^^-^^^  ^^^^  j^l    , 
our  stake  the  members  are  quite  ^ 943,  concerning  the  use  in  this  mis- 
scattered,  and  with  gasoline  ration-       /^^  ^  ^,  ^  4.  j  i.    1.1 
'  ,  -^  .  .  sion  of  the  program  suggested  by  the 
ing  we  now  have  quite  a  transporta-  ^  1  t^  i  r  .11  u-  n 
tion  problem,  so  after  talking  the  General  Board  for  stakes  holding  Re- 
matter  over  with  the  stake  presiden-  ^'^^  Society  sessions  in  connection 
cy  it  was  decided  to  hold  three  meet-  ^1*^^  stake  quarterly  conference  dur- 
ings,  and  give  more  members  of  our  ing  the  summer:  "On  the  eve  of 
stake  the  opportunity  to  attend  the  July  3,  we  enjoyed  one  of  the  best 
evening  session.  Relief  Society  programs  ever  to  be

108  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1944 
put  on  at  conference  time.  The  program  seemed  to  bring  the  spirit- 
Georgia  District  was  given  the  priv-  ual  atmosphere  which  was  sustained 
ilege  of  rendering  the  program  at  the  during  the  entire  conference. 
Saturday  evening  session  of  confer-  "I  might  add  the  program  was 
ence  and  they  followed  the  suggested  rendered  so  well  that  President 
program  in  Bulletin  No.  30.  Each  Whitaker  suggested  each  district 
sister  was  well  prepared  and  the  sing-  have  the  privilege  of  presenting  the 
ing  was  lovely.  The  Scriptural  read-  program  on  Saturday  evening  during 
ing  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  the  following  three  months." 
WINTER  SLEEP 
Clara  Tanner 
Six  summers  here  she  worked  with  trowel  and  rake 
And  seeds  and  bare  brown  earth  and  rain  to  make 
A  garden  where  the  earth  once  fed  but  weeds. 
Beneath  her  hand  the  hardened  bulbs  and  seeds 
Burst  forth  to  life  anew  and  riotous  bloom, 
And  filled  the  air  with  delicate  sweet  perfume. 
But  now,  before  the  spring's  first  tiny  flower 
Has  blossomed  to  relieve  a  saddened  hour, 
She  sleeps,  and  those  who  loved  her  see  her  not, 
But  here  remains  the  change  that  she  has  wrought. 
Though  covered  now  with  winter's  coat  of  snow. 
And  sleeping,  in  the  springtime  they  will  grow— 
The  roses,  poppies,  dahlias,  folded  tight— 
Again  to  gorgeous  blooms  in  colors  bright. 
Let  her  sleep,  too,  be  restful,  sweet,  and  deep; 
Let  memories  her  dear  ones  ever  keep. 
And  in  another  springtime,  other  clime, 
May  she  awake,  O  God,  in  thine  own  time.

LESSON^^ffij  DEPARTMENT 
cJheoiogy 
Articles  of  Faith 
Lesson  24— Practical  Religion 
Tuesday,  May  2,  1944 
Article  13:  "We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous, 
and  in  doing  good  to  all  men;  indeed,  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  admo- 
nition of  Paul— We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured 
many  things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is  anything 
virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these  things." 
Lesson  Aim :  To  show  that  honesty,  truthfulness,  benevolence,  and  doing 
good  to  all  men,  as  well  as  chastity,  charity,  and  the  sanctity  of  the  body  are 
necessary  to  salvation,  and  should  be  incorporated  into  the  conduct  of  our 
daily  lives. 
CONDENSATION  OF  CHAPTER  24,  TALMAGE'S,  ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 
Religion  oi  Daily  Liie  professions    of    godliness    without 
In  this  article  of  their   faith,  the  charity,  church-membership  without 
Latter-day  Saints  declare  their  ac-  adequate    responsibility    as    to    in- 
ceptance  of  a  practical  religion;  a  re-  dividual  conduct  in  daily  life,    are 
ligion  that  shall  consist,  not  alone  of  but  as  sounding  brass  and  tinkling 
professions  in  spiritual  matters,  and  cymbals— noise  without   music,  the 
belief  as  to  the  conditions  of  the  words  without  the  spirit  of  prayer, 
hereafter,  but  also,  and  more  par-  'Ture  religion  and  undefiled  before 
ticularly,  of  present   and   every-day  God  and  the  Father  is  this.  To  visit 
duties,  in  which  proper  respect  for  the  fatherless  and  widows  in  their 
self,  love  for  fellow  men,  and  devo-  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself  un- 
tion  to  God  are  the  guiding  prin-  spotted  from  the  world"  (James  1: 
ciples.    Religion   without  morality,  27). 
Page  109

no 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1944 
The  Comprehensiveness  of 
Our  Faith 
Within  the  pale  of  the  Church 
there  is  a  place  for  all  truth— for 
everything  that  is  praiseworthy,  vir- 
tuous, lovely,  or  of  good  report.  The 
belief  of  Latter-day  Saints  carries 
them  forward,  even  beyond  the 
bounds  of  knowledge  thus  far  re- 
vealed, and  teaches  them  to  look 
with  unwavering  confidence  for  oth- 
er revelations,  truths  yet  to  be  added, 
and  progress  beyond  the  mind  of 
man  to  conceive  or  the  soul  to  con- 
tain. We  believe  in  a  God  who  is 
Himself  progressive,  whose  majesty 
is  intelligence;  whose  perfection  con- 
sists in  eternal  advancement  (Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  93:36),  a  Be- 
ing who  has  attained  His  exalted 
state  by  a  path  which  now  His  chil- 
dren are  permitted  to  follow,  whose 
glory  it  is  their  heritage  to  share.  In 
spite  of  the  opposition  of  the  sects, 
in  the  face  of  direct  charges  of  blas- 
phemy, the  Church  proclaims  the 
eternal  truth :  "As  man  is,  God  once 
was;  as  God  is,  man  may  be."  As  be- 
ing incidental  to  the  declaration  of 
belief  embodied  in  this  Article,  many 
topics  relating  to  the  organization, 
precepts,  and  practice  of  the  Church 
suggest  themselves,  of  these  a  care- 
ful study  should  be  made  of  the  fol- 
lowing: benevolence;  charity  or 
love;  the  law  of  fast,  with  the  includ- 
ed offering;  the  law  of  the  tithe;  con- 
secration and  stewardship  including