[Vol31 | February 1944 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Messages to the Love]

He was silent for a long time and at last he spoke, ?I never knew there was such a religion. If that is your religion, tell me more about it, for I want it' " Twelve Tests of Character, page 166. Abraham Lincoln had that divine quality in a high degree. Lincoln chose Stanton to be Secretary of War because he felt that he was the best fitted man for that job, although he knew that Stanton had called him "a low cunning clown, the original gorilla." The woman who is too great to be envious of others or jealous of the achievements of others has in her soul a pure and unselfish love. Envy and jealousy are inward foes of human happiness, enemies against which we should wage a relentless war. Envy ruins families, separates friends, and fills the minds of those who harbor it with rancor. Jealousy embitters the heart and shrinks and withers the soul. Love rises above these. "Against the superiority of others there is no remedy but love." To see others have what one wanted; to aspire and be defeated; to plan and fail; and to walk through life with sunlit faces and unenvious hearts is to win a great and noble victory. To be just and generous toward people, to rejoice in the prosperity and success of others is proof of a really great soul. Discussion 1. Discuss the power love gives to the individual from whom it springs, and its effect on an enemy? 2. What do the Scriptures tell us of the importance of love in the relationship of God and man, and between man and man? 3. How may this highest form of love be developed?. References Relief Society Magazine, vol. 30, April 1943, p. 260
Gospel Doctrine, third edition, "Love One Another', p. 425, fifth edition, p. 340; "Honor Yourselves and Your Neighbors', third edition, p. 321, fifth edition, p. 256; "Do Not Inflict Wounds, But Heal Wounds", third edition, p. 331, fifth edition, p. 264 WASHINGTON ON EDUCATION Knowledge is in every country the surest basis of public happiness. In one in which the measures of government receive their impression so immediately from the sense of the community, as in ours, it is proportionately essential. To the security of a free constitution it contributes in various ways: By convincing those who are entrusted with the public administration, that every valuable end of government is best answered by the enlightened confidence of the people; and by teaching the people themselves to know and to value their own rights; to discern and provide against invasions of them; to distinguish between oppression and the necessary exercise of lawful authority, between burdens proceeding from a disregard to their convenience and those resulting from the inevitable exigencies of society; to discriminate the spirit of liberty from that of licentiousness, cherishing the first, avoiding the last, and uniting a speedy but temperate vigilance against encroachments, with an inviolable respect to the laws?George Washington. 
 ?FEBRUARY 1944 LESSON DEPARTMENT 5
Home Sopics For optional use on Work-and-Business Day Modern Housekeeping Methods Lesson 8?Dishwashing Tuesday, May 9, 1944 THE United States War Information Chief recently said: "Little things count. We must learn to do the little job?the nuisance that we don't want to do which is so important in winning the World War on the Home Front." 'This statement may appropriately be applied to housekeeping.
There is certain work occurring daily in all households which often becomes tiresome to homemakers and yet which must be done regularly and well if the home is to be properly kept.
Among these tasks are laundering clothes, straightening and cleaning the house, preparing and serving the meals, and dishwashing. The experienced homemaker recognizes in dishwashing one of the most important problems of the household.
With her it is not a problem of whether she likes the job or not, but rather how may she perform the task most quickly and efficiently. | The ability to wash dishes quickly and adequately should be taught to every one in the family.
Dishwashing is really a critical process with an important hygienic aspect.
Many colds, septic sore throats, and other diseases can be traced to unclean dishwashing. In a soiled, greasy dishcloth germs have everything favorable for growth?moisture, food, and warm temperature.
When a germinfested dishcloth is put into clean dishwater, the water immediately becomes polluted and unfit for dishes and utensils. The nearest practical approach to surgical cleanliness is the objective to be sought in dishwashing. Is it more efficient to do the dishes after each meal or only once or twice a day?
Here we can run into endless argument because there is no one answer. The writer's answer to this question is?do it now!
There are a number of ways in which dishes may be washed and wiped satisfactorily.
There is no one best way.
There are electric dishwashers now which are used by many hotels and restaurants and which are very satisfactory for washing large numbers of dishes. A few homes also have electric dishwashers, but in the majority of homes dishes are washed by hand. Any good method of washing dishes is based on certain basic principles.
Here are the basic principles: Any dish washes more easily if food has not been allowed to dry on it.
Since hot water cooks starches and the proteins of eggs, dishes containing these should be soaked in cold water. 'The reverse is true of sugary, sirupy, and greasy dishes.