[Vol31 | February 1944 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Theology Practical]
91 As this is the last theology lesson of the three-year course on the Articles of Faith, time might well be allowed either at the beginning or close of the lesson for the class, small groups, or individual members to recite the Articles of Faith. Prior to the presentation of the lesson (Chapter 24), it is suggested that a short period, perhaps fifteen minutes, be devoted to a review of the year's work, conducted in the form of a quiz. In conducting the quiz, the class leader should choose four or five women to participate in answering questions; someone should be appointed to judge answers, and someone else to act as timekeeper. Slips of paper containing questions on the year's work, together with their answers, should be deposited in a box. The four or five women chosen to answer questions should sit in front of the class where they may be seen by class members and easily heard. (Opportunity should be given, well in advance of the quiz, for class members to volunteer to participate in this way.) The class leader should draw from the box, one at a time, the slips of paper containing the questions and answers. As each question is drawn from the box, she should read it clearly and distinctly. Then the four or five women chosen to answer questions should be given opportunity to answer. 112
After the question is read by the class leader, the slip of paper containing the question and answer should be handed to the woman chosen to judge answers, in order that she may determine, from the answer written on the slip, whether or not the question has been correctly and adequately answered. A definite and reasonable length of time should be allowed for answering each question.
When the time allotted for answering has expired, the timekeeper should indicate this in some way, such as by touching a bell. If it is considered that the question has not been correctly nor adequately answered, opportunity should be given the class to answer it. It is recommended that class members be advised of this quiz well in advance of the date it is to be conducted, in order that they may have ample time to review the subject matter upon which the questions are to be based.
Definite study suggestions should be given to the class as a whole, and particularly to the four or five class members chosen to be responsible for answering questions. If no one volunteers to act in this capacity, it is suggested that questions be directed to the class as a whole.
Questions and answers for the quiz may be obtained by any of the following methods: 1. At the close of the previous month's lesson, the class leader might assign each of the eight chapters of the Articles of Faith studied this year, to a group of two or three class members, asking each group to hand to her, several days prior to the date of the quiz, one or two questions on its respective chapter,  together with the answer to each question. 2. For two or three weeks preceding the quiz, a box might be conveniently placed in the classroom.
Class members might be requested to deposit, in the box, slips of paper containing questions and their answers, on the subject matter covered during the past year. 3. The class leader herself might provide questions and answers.
Whichever method is used, it is very necessary that the questions be prepared early enough to insure their careful perusal and checking by the class leader.
Because of the limited time available for the quiz, not more than one or two questions should be used on each chapter.
Persons handing in questions should understand that all questions submitted may not be used; catch questions should be carefully avoided. If the plans for the quiz are well laid and questions and answers carefully chosen and checked, this quiz period will stimulate study and prove helpful and instructive. In order that the class may have opportunity to study and be thoroughly prepared for the quiz, the class leader might even post, one week prior to the date of the quiz, a copy of the questions to be used. Note: This quiz is to be conducted during a part of the time allotted to the class leader for presentation of her lesson, and is in no way to interfere with the regular testimony meeting. Ne the conclusion of Lesson 24 it is suggested that the class leader take time to briefly summarize the threeyear course, concluding her remarks on a note that is conducive to testimony bearing.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 113 SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925. The religion that we have embraced must last a man from Monday morning until Monday morning, and from Saturday night until Saturday night, and from one new year until another; it must be in all our thoughts and words, in all our ways and dealings. We come here to tell the people how to be saved; we know how, consequently we can tell others. Suppose our calling tomorrow is to conduct a railroad, to go into some philosophical business, or no matter what, our minds, our faith or religion, our God and his Spirit are with us; and if we should happen to be found in a room dedicated for purposes of amusement and an accident should occur, and an Elder engaged in the dance is called upon to go and lay hands on the sick, if he is not prepared to exercise his calling and his faith in God as much there as at any other time and in any other place, he never should be found there, for none have a legal right to the amusements which the Lord has ordained for his children except those who acknowledge his hand in all things and keep his commandments.?p. 361
