[Vol31 | February 1944 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: "Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business?" Part III President J. Reuben Clark Jr]
An  Ovation:  On  Monday,  January  21st,  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow  Smith,  President  of 
the  Latter-day  Saint  Women's  Organizations,  received  such  an  ovation  as  is  seldom 
accorded  to  a  woman.  The  party  met  in  the  Social  Hall  at  5  p.  m.  and  the  exercises  began 
about  six  o'clock.  President  John  Taylor  made  some  preliminary  remarks  suitable  to  the 
occasion,  and  congratulated  Sister  Eliza  on  having  arrived  at  the  age  of  four  score  years. 
A  good  spirit  seemed  to  rest  upon  all  assembled  to  pay  this  tribute  of  respect  to  a  veteran 
mother  in  Israel.  .  .  . 
*  *  *  « 
The  Sixteenth  Annual  Washington  Convention  of  the  National  Woman  Suffrage 
Association:  Will  be  held  in  Lincoln  Hall,  Washington,  D.C.,  March  4th,  5th,  and 
6th,  1884.  Pubhc  sessions  will  be  held  at  2  and  7:30  p.  m.  on  each  of  these  days,  and 
Executive  Sessions,  open  only  to  officers  and  members  of  the  Association,  will  be  held 
daily  at  10:30  a.m.  .  .  . 
The  principal  object  of  this  Association  from  its  organization,  has  been  to  secure 
to  the  women  of  the  several  States  and  Territories  national  protection  in  the  Citizens 
Right  to  Vote,  through  a  Sixteenth  Amendment  to  the  National  Constitution. 
Elizabeth  Cady  Stanton,  President. 
*  «  *  * 
Miscellaneous:    The  Woman's  Journal  will  henceforth  number  among  its  occasional 
contributors  Louisa  M.  Alcott,  Mary  F.  Eastman  and  Elizabeth  Stuart  Phelps. 
*  *  «  « 
Will  somebody  tell  us  if  there  is  a  chaos  of  unrocked  cradles,  undarned  socks  and 
buttonless  shirts  in  Washington  Territory — now  that  the  wofnen  vote? 
*  *  #  « 
Editorial  Notes:  The  picture  entitled,  "Representative  Women,"  and  dedicated 
to  Sister  Eliza  R.  S.  Smith  ....  is  now  ready  ....  There  is  a  book  of  pen-sketches  of 
about  140  pages,  which  will  enhance  the  interest  of  the  picture. 
«  *  *  « 
Manti  Items:  At  the  commencement  of  another  cycle  of  time  we  desire  to  inform 
our  favorite  organ  that  we  are  still  living  and  endeavoring  to  live  the  lives  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  that  the  Manti  North  Ward  Relief  Society  is  up  and  doing  deeds  of  kind- 
ness— ^like  He  who  suffered  on  the  cross — ^let  their  good  works  testify  ....  Those  who 
are  in  trouble  find  a  father,  benefactor  and  comforter  in  our  Bishop;  a  mother,  sister  and 
sympathizer  in  our  beloved  president,  Sister  Rebecca  Wareham,  and  the  members  of  the 
Relief  Society. 
*  *  *  * 
Pretty  napkins  for  trays  and  fruit  dishes  are  of  cream  colored  momie  cloth,  with 
designs  of  grapes,  peaches,  plums  and  apples,  mingled  with  their  leaves.  The  work  is 
either  in  Kensington  or  etching  style,  and  the  napkins  are  finished  with  a  border  of 
drawn  work  and  a  knotted  fringe. 
«  «  *  # 
The  Cover:  The  cover  picture,  "Light  of  the  Morning,"  is  from  a  photograph  taken 
in  Blanding,  Utah,  by  Willard  Luce.