[Vol31 | February 1944 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon SELFLESS, unmercenary Nurse Kenny at fourteen was worried about her young brother's lack of muscular development. She read everything available on muscles and set up a dummy with a muscular system of ropes and pulleys for experimentation. She turned Bill into a husky young man who was decorated in the last war. Later, she declined marriage in order to mother humanity. Her treatment of infantile paralysis was diametrically opposed to current medical practice which placed the affected parts in splints or casts for a complete rest. She thought this treatment inconsistent, as the muscle-spasms caused shortening which in turn caused deformity. The technique which Nurse Kenny sponsors today consists in using hot fomentations, and, by skilled handling, she teaches the muscles their former behavior-pattern. She also teaches them their path to the brain, which has usually become lost when the muscles tried to work under acute suffering. Students work with her two years to acquire her method. She is accomplishing miracles. HERE are some books, written for the young, but equally interesting to adults, which will help to widen our horizons: The Welcome, by Babette Deutsch (Harper's), which is a story of an American boy's growth in understanding through his acquaintance with a boy refugee; They Came From France, by Clara I. Judson (Junior Literary Guild, New York, and Houghton Mifflin); Hosh-ki. The Navajo, by Florence Hayes (Random House), a book rich in Indian background; The White Stag, by Kate Seredy (Viking Press), a beautifully written story of Hungary's legendary history. ON October 19, 1943, Fannie C. Harper, wife of the late John C. Harper of Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico, celebrated her eightieth anniversary by giving a recital to an appreciative audience that filled the Ivins Hall to capacity. The recital consisted of the presentation of a choice selection of poems and favorite passages of Scripture that Mrs. Harper had memorized at various times throughout her life. Mrs. Harper has lived in Colonia Juarez for more than fifty years, and for thirty-four years she has been a widow. She has made an independent and comfortable living from keeping an open house both for regular boarders and transient travelers. IN the United States, in 1942, there were 9,200,000 accidents and 93,000 deaths. Of these, 4,600,000 were home accidents with 30,000 deaths. The Parent-Teacher Association has pamphlets which every woman should possess, discussing methods of increasing safety at home and in the streets. Application should be made at the organization centers. Page 95 

No. 2
The Exercise of Religious liberty, Religious liberty, a principle which recognizes the God-given right of each man to his religious views as well as his right to practice the same, has always been cherished by Christian people.
Christianity recognizes the dignity and worth of the individual, and grants to every man his free agency in religious as well as other matters. It teaches that man is a child of the living God, by nature a sp9iritual as well as a physical being, with a high and glorious destiny. Through Christ, the Father gave a plan whereby man might attain that destiny, but within the plan was no element of force. President Brigham Young in a discourse delivered July 5, 1855, in reference to the free agency of man said: ?Man is made in the likeness of his creator, the great archetype of the human species, who bestowed upon him the principles of eternity planting immortality within him, and leaving him at liberty to act in the way that seemeth good unto him-to choose or refuse for himself, to be a Latter-day Saint, or a Wesleyan Methodist, to belong to the Church of England the oldest daughter of the Mother Church, to the old Mother herself, to her sister the Greek church, or to be an infidel and belong to no church.? America, a Christian nation, extends to its people religious liberty-the right to worship God according to the dictates of conscience. Thomas Jefferson expressed the American concept when he said: ?Religion is regarded as a matter which lies solely between man and his God; he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship.? The sacred right of religious liberty was safeguarded the American people by the Constitutional Fathers when, being divinely led, they created a structure of government, with a body of laws controlling it, whereby a maximum of freedom and liberty to the individual might be assured.
Into the Bill of Rights was written the guarantee of freedom of worship. So strong is the belief of Americans in religious liberty that anything which impinges upon it in the slightest degree arouses bitter resentment. The persecutions during the last decade of religionists of all persuasions-Jews, Protestants, and Catholics- in a number of countries outside the United States, have been viewed as unjust, cruel, tyrannical. Indeed, the fact that religious liberty has been suppressed and religious groups persecuted makes war seem entirely justified in the minds of many persons. To Latter-day Saints, who have known religious persecution, the curtailment of religious freedom seems particularly unjust.