Nurse who Attended Eugene Field When a Boy Now Resident of Utah
Extract from the Semi-Weekly Herald-Republican, Salt Lake City, Utah, Tuesday, June 21, 1910, presented to the Relief Society Magazine by Mrs. Moon.
A way beyond Lagoon, on the North Farmington road, lives a sweet-faced, gentle-voiced old lady whose distinction it is to have been the nurse of Eugene Field. Would she leave her garden for a few minutes to talk about her famous charge? Her face lighted up with pleasure at the question, and she accepted the invitation cordially for he was her "boy," she said.
In 1851, when Eugene Field was 9 or 10 months old, Mrs, Temperance Moon, of Farmington, Utah, then a child herself of 11, was for two years employed as a nurse girl in the family of Roswell M. Field, father of the distinguished writer. Little Eugene was her especial charge. In 1853 Mrs. Moon came to Utah with her brother and heard no more from the Field family until she wrote Eugene Field, in 1891, to ask if the writer of the verses, which she had come to love, was by any chance her little charge of earlier years. Field responded with warmth to her letter, said he remembered his old nurse, and cordially inquired about her family and old-time mutual friends. The letters which passed between them are a great source of comfort to Mrs. Moon, and the correspondence only terminated at Field's death. "If the had lived, I believe he would have come to see me," she said sadly. It was the same "if he had lived" that hundreds of warm personal friends repeat with regret as they mourn the early death of the writer.
Sends Her His Picture
Field sent Mrs. Moon a picture with the inscription, "Frances Field and her baby Eugene Field. Copy of a picture made in 1851," and asked her to write him if she remembered it. Mrs. Moon says that she does, and a later one when she herself took the child in his first little suit of clothes to have his picture taken.. This one, she would give many times its value to possess, but there is no means of knowing if a copy is in existence.
The new clothes were of black velvet, with a circular cloak that fell to his heels and a black velvet hat and feather. The child was very large for his age Mrs. Moon says, fair, with dark blue eyes and soft, pliable light hair that was quite long for a baby. This fairness Eugene Field kept up in later life, a newspaper story describing him as "tall, slender, boyish, blonde and aggressive."
Mrs. Moon, whose maiden name was Temperance Westwood,
lost her parents when she was about 11 years old, and it was found necessary for the child to go to work. Her sister, Mercy, was at the time cook in the Field household in St. Louis, Mo. The family was in good circumstances and kept a considerable establishment, living in a three-story house in one of the best residence suburbs of the city. Mrs.: Field came into the kitchen one day when Temperance was there visiting her sister, and it was explained to her that the little girl must secure a situation. "I want you to stay here," she said to Temperance, "and take care of Eugene, who is getting to be a big boy." Later, when another child was born, Temperance had the entire charge of Eugene, sleeping with him in the nursery and looking after him all day long.
Field Loved Stories
Mrs. Moon recalls particularly that in the last months of her care of him, when the child was in his fourth year, how he loved stories. The mother often gave Temperance money to buy fairy tales to read to Eugene., "He seemed in spirit older than his body," said Mrs. Moon, and added that the child clung to her and that she could do anything with him. He was a good baby, large and healthy, according to Mrs. Moon, and of a very inquiring disposition. One of his favorite tales was Puss in Boots.; Mrs. Field was a very particular woman, insisting that the best care must be given her children. She did not like nicknames, so the boys were called by their full names, Eugene and Roswell. The father, a lawyer of considerable local note, was very fond of his children and used to come to the nursery to play with his boys oftener than the nurse quite liked. He was a great smoker, and Mrs. Moon remembers seeing him striding up and down the parlors, declaiming some speech he was about to make.
When Mrs. Moon came to Utah, in 1853, she parted with great regret from the little boy she had come to love. Crossing the plains with an ox team, and the experiences of the strange life in the west, caused her to lose sight of her charge, whose mother soon after died, and the family was broken up. Mrs. Moon married Henry Moon, in 1856. They lived for some time in Salt Lake, but later moved to Farmington, where she now resides.
Field's Mother Dies
While he was yet a little child, Eugene Field's mother died, and he was placed in the care of his aunt, Miss-Mary. French,

of Amherst, Mass. At 17 years of age he entered Williams college. His father, Roswell M. Field, a distinguished lawyer of St. Louis, who is perhaps best known as one of the counsel for Dred Scott in the famous slavery case, was a thorough scholar. He required the young student to carry on all correspondence in Latin. Before the son had been long at Williams college the father died. Professor John W. Burgess, who was appointed the boy's guardian, placed him in Knox college, at Galesburg, Ill. He studied there two years and later at the University of Missouri. In 1871, having attained his majority, Field traveled in Europe. He then became a newspaper reporter on the St. Louis Evening Journal, from which time his career as a writer was assured. His death occurred November 4, 1895, at the age of 45.
It is doubtful if any other writer has woven so many beautiful child fancies into verse. Even if he had never written anything else, these were enough to bring fame to Eugene Field. His prose writings prove him to have been gifted with delicate sentiment and rare humor. His early death, at a time when he was doing his best work, cut off a career that had only just begun to shape itself.
Following is a copy of a letter Mr. Field wrote Mrs. Moon:
Dear Mrs. Moon: Your letter pleased me very much indeed. I send you a copy of a picture of my mother and myself?a copy of one made when I was a little baby. Please tell me whether it looks natural to you. The Pomeroy girls, Mary and Stella, are both married. Mary lives here in Chicago, and has no children. Stella lives in St. Louis and has a large family. My aunt Belle is now a widow, living in Swanzey, N. H. She married a farmer named Angier. I married in 1875, and we have three children living, a girl of 15 and boys aged 12 and 9. We have lost two boys and one girl. My brother is married but has no children. He is one of the editors of the Kansas City Star. I shall try to send you a picture of my father if I can get a copy made of one we have. Do let me hear from you often. Your letter interested me very much. God bless you. Ever sincerely yours, Fullerton Avenue, Chicago. May 13, 1891.
The Prime of Life
Thy youth is still upon thee; use it well: No days so precious as the days of prime! Count every hour a gem; keep sentinel Against each robber of thy priceless time: Count every day misspent a failure and a crime.