GUIDE LESSONS. 57

a century Alexandria became larger than Carthage and acknowledged no superior but Rome. Not only Greeks filled the teeming city, but Jews flocked here by thousands till there were more Jews in the city of Alexandria than in the city of Jerusalem. It became the greatest Jewish city in the world. Here the Septuagint was produced. The Egyptian rulers obtained control finally of the city, and although Alexandria was nominally a free Greek city, the military arm of Egypt retained power over its policies. The city finally passed under the Roman rule in 80 B. C., after Rome had conquered Greece and had risen to be the great world power, which she was at this period. It was in Alexandria that Julius Caesar idled away his great career with Cleopatra in 47 B. C., and was mobbed by the rabble. Here also Mark Antony fell supinely at the feet of the same temptress. Alexandria was an important granary of Rome and after many centuries was one of the world's greatest and most luxurious cities. In the third century after Christ, Christian theology and Church government was centered in Alexandria, yet pagan learning still flourished side by side in this liberal commonwealth. From this period until the fifth century the city declined fast in population and splendor, and in 616 A. D. it came under the rule of Persia. In 640 A. D. the Arabs who were on their conquering way carried a siege of fourteen months to successful conclusion against the city, and even in the decline of its glory, the Arab conqueror Amr reported to the Caliph Omar that he had taken a city "containing 4,000 palaces, 4,000 baths, 12,000 dealers in fresh oil, 12,000 gardeners, 40,000 Jews who paid tribute, and 400 theatres or places of amusement." In the year 389 A. D. the Saracens destroyed the magnificent library collected by the Ptolemies of 700,000 volumes. Alexandria rapidly declined in importance. The building of Cairo in 969 A. D. and above all, the discovery of the route to the East by the Cape of Good Hope in 1498 nearly ruined its commerce. When the cruel Turks seized Egypt in 1517 they assumed control and Alexandria retained until the British, in the last century, established their own consulate power in Egypt. In recent years, under the consulate of Great Britain, Alexandria is a new town of handsome houses, gardens and boulevards, and tourists always crowd the once powerful and ever famous city.

QUESTIONS.

Who was Ham?
What is the difference between profane and secular history?
What is the Dark Continent?
Give a sketch of ancient Egypt.
Where was Chaldea?
What can you tell of Carthage?
Describe the city of Alexandria.


LESSON IV.
Home Economics.
Fourth Week in February.

Before the snow is fully gone the careful housewife will begin to plan the vegetable garden. Perhaps in some sheltered sections fall planting will reward her for her late efforts in gardening and furnish a supply of radishes, spinach, onions, and lettuce. Besides the usual supply of peas, radishes, onions, carrots and beets, it will be well to plant rutabagas, spinach, salsify, and parsley. By intermittent planting, radishes, lettuce and peas can be had the greater part of the summer, while a late supply of young beets and turnips is possible where the ground is kept working all of the season. Having something growing all the time should be the slogan of the administrative head of the kitchen garden, for weeds not only exhaust the soil, but utilize moisture which should be utilized to better advantage in food production. Before passing, let us not forget the asparagus bed. When a bed is properly started a small amount of care will produce an unusual amount of succulent stalks which contain ash constituent of high value. The most valuable of these is phosphorus, which helps to build bones and nerve tissue. In fact, if eaten in generous amounts, the phosphorus in it is almost equal to a nerve tonic.

WHY EAT VEGETABLES?

The use of vegetables in the spring is to be especially commended. Because of the expense of fresh fruits and vegetables many diets contain only a limited supply of those health-giving bulky foods. Except where food value needs to be very carefully considered on a very low income, as much of the food money should be spent for vegetables and fruits as for proteins or staples. Unfortunately many diets in the country are deficient in fresh vegetables. This results from lack of attention to the kitchen garden and poor food habits. Every member of the family over four years of age should eat almost every vegetable the market supplies. In discussing vegetables, attention must be given to vitamines. These are life-giving substances found in fresh foods. When the diet is deficient in these, malnutrition results, and if such a diet is continued, deficiency diseases may result. Scurvy in children is almost always the result of need for vitamines and ash

GUIDE LESSONS. 59

constituents. The ash constituents are used in the body to give rigidity to the framework, to promote contractibility of the muscles, to maintain neutrality between bases and acids, to build protein, to make blood, to aid in digestion. They are valuable for their preventive properties as well as curative. This fact is especially noticeable in diets which prevent the deficiency diseases such as scurvy, rickets, and beriberi. The following are the most important ash constituents in study of the food supply:

Calcium or lime salts are necessary for bones and teeth. Our chief source of it is milk, the whole grains also have some calcium, while the proportion of calcium in vegetables and fruits is very little.

Phosphorus combines with calcium in the bony structure of the body. Milk furnishes a small amount of phosphorus, but it is found in whole grains, eggs, meats, fish, legumes and vegetables.

Iron is essential for growth of both plants and animals. Because there is an excess of iron in the body at birth, the body need of iron is met for the first nine months or year. After that it is essential that sufficient iron be supplied to build healthy blood corpuscles. Spinach, squash, beets, lettuce, prunes, oranges and red currants are especially valuable for their iron content. Women and girls need more iron for body functions than do men and boys, hence the feminine taste for salads seems to be a good one.

Sodium chloride, or common salt, is very necessary. Because of the free use of salt its value to the body is apt to be overlooked. It is valuable in increasing excretion, as the greater the proportion of salt in the food, the greater the amount of water excreted. Salt is more necessary for the enjoyment of a vegetable diet than it is for an animal diet, the reason being that there is a considerable amount of salt in the animal tissues. Flesh-eating animals need less salt than do herbivorous animals. Salt is necessary, however, for protein digestion as it helps to keep the gastric juices acid.

Sulphur is found in the body in combination with protein and other ash constituents. With an average supply of protein the necessary amount of sulphur is met.

In the preparation of spring vegetables, it is also well to remember that they are valuable for their bulk. A generous serving of asparagus, for instance, will not be equal in heat or energy value to the cream, butter or oil which dresses it. Foods somewhat concentrated should help to balance the spring vegetable menu. We like cream and butter on vegetables, and like to eat them with meat, cheese dishes, and a substantial dessert. A study of the illustrations in the previous article will show that it would be rather severe on the individual to supply caloric needs on a strict diet of bulky vegetables. It may also be said that the harp of man's body will not stay attuned if an


excess of concentrated carbohydrates, proteins and fats are used to the exclusion of the valuable bulk and ash constituents which help to regulate the body processes.

In making out the order for vegetable seeds, the housewife is urged to give a small plot of ground to the production of the soy bean. This bean is comparatively little known in the West. The agricultural authorities at Washington are urging its production, as it is a very valuable substitute for both wheat and meat. It also lends itself to very savory dishes and can be used in many ways. Perhaps it will be well to send individually to the Department of Agriculture and get a packet of seeds for the home garden. According to present grave demands upon the farmer and housewife this next war garden must be as far in advance of those of last season as they were ahead of those the year before. Let us be more proud than ever over our kitchen gardens.

QUESTIONS.

Discuss how best to get early vegetables in your section. Get first-hand information from the best gardeners in town.

Do all of the members of your family eat all kinds of vegetables? How can you best create a stronger public opinion for good food habits at your table?

What are some of the (a) temporary results, (b) more permanent results of few vegetables and fruits in the diet?

What is the function of the different ash constituents in the body? Give foods rich in iron, sulphur, potassium, calcium.

Why is it important not to overcook vegetables?

Would it be well to establish garden contests in order to stimulate wiser selections, more careful planting, better use and preservation of the crops? This need not entail any prizes, just to stimulate a contest which will help every Relief Society worker to better organize the labor and the energy of the different members of the family in order that every foot of the vegetable plot may truly furnish some of the world's food supply.

Putting up beans in jars or crocks. Allow a handful of salt to a layer of beans. This is a very successful method of caring for this particular vegetable. The beans must be kept covered with a clean cloth, weighted down with a clean plate or lid, so that the liquid which is made from the juice of the beans and the salt must keep them entirely covered.