MORMONISM WILL LIVE.

	We have often heard it said, the best way to
kill a disagreeable thing is to let it alone, and it
will die a natural death. Evidently this is not
the idea generally entertained in regard to Mor-
monism. It seems to be as much an inexhausti-
ble subject to those who oppose it, as it is to the
Elders who proclaim its principles. Mormonism
is dished up in various forms for Congress and
the Cabinet, and to send about to foreign na-
tions, as well as for Territorial Legislatures and
the daily papers. Presidents and Governors
take a turn at it, and denounce the Mormons in
their speeches to the people. It not only both-
ers political leaders and demagogues, but Chris-
tion ministers, in their great anxiety to suppress
it, are exerting every nerve and bringing their
tremendous influence to bear, to show it up in its
most terrible aspect. And women, too, are tak-
ing extra pains, sparing neither time, money
nor talents to portray its hideousness.
	In the midst of all this controversy on the
Mormon question, the tide of empire still
marches onward, and the Stakes of Zion are
strengthened and her borders lengthened, and
the number of disciples to the "new faith" con-
stantly increases. There is something in Mor-
monism, so called, that is not apparent to the
casual observer; it has seemed an easy matter to
uproot this "obnoxious plant," but many power-
ful efforts have again and again been made, yet
all have signally failed. Men of enterprise, men
of nerve, have undertaken to battle with it, and
men of superior worldly intelligence have sought
to solve the Mormon problem, to read this enig-
matical riddle in vain. The Mormon people,
persecuted, driven and plundered, still have
prospered, made new homes, sent out their mis-
sionaries, built up the waste places and made the
desert blossom as the rose. Full of faith in God
and integrity to the principles He has revealed
in this dispensation, and regardless of the oppro-
brium heaped upon them by their enemies, they
pursue the even tenor of their way, and with
the indomitable perseverance of the Pilgrim Fa-
thers, who ventured all for the sake of worship-
ping God according to the dictates of their own
consciences, they have braved the perils of the
wilderness with wives and children, taking, as
it were, their lives in their hands. But this is
not enough. Their enemies pursue them, they
would despoil them of all the rights of citizen-
ship and place their lives in jeopardy. For
what? For obeying the law of the Lord as re-
vealed through his prophet. Blind as the people
who lived before the flood, they cry delusion,
and will not be warned of danger. They see
not the signs of the times In the calamities that
are following each other in quick succession.
But the Lord is working among the nations, and
in his own way and time bringing to pass his

[Column 2]
purposes. The few who are willing to make a
covenant by sacrifice, are looked upon as the
Saints of God were in former days, outcasts and
deluded; but they have that within which pass-
eth understanding, and though the world revile
and persecute them, still true to the principles
they have espoused and the covenants they have
made, they will unflinchingly maintain their in-
tegrity to the law of the Lord, though "the
heathen rage and the people imagine a vain
thing." Not only is this true of men bearing
the holy priesthood, but of women also, fellow-
helpers, who hold their faith as sacred as the un-
cient women of Scripture, of whom the Chris-
tian world is so justly proud. The world that
condemns Mormon women in the present age
for accepting the conditions of the Abrahamic
covenant, viz., patriarchal marriage, but hold up
to view, as examples worthy of imitation the
women of olden time, and immortalize their
memory in poetry and art. Sara, Ruth, Rebecca
and others, who obeyed the voice of the Lord
and made covenant by sacrifice. The women
of the new dispensation are prepared to make
similar sacrifices; indeed, they have already
broken in pieces their earthly idols and accepted
the new and everlasting covenant. The lives of
many are as grand and as noble as those of the
holy women of old. They have borne the cross,
and who shall say they will not win an immor-
tal crown, the blessing of endless lives. Such
women are earnest and staunch supporters of
the same "faith that was once delivered to the
Saints." There is in the Gospel men term Mor-
monism an ever-enduring germ, that cannot be
uprooted by the blasts of adversity, or destroyed
by the raging fire of persecution. Those who
have not drank at the same living fountain com-
prehend it not.
	Presidents, governors and rulers may make
and enforce stringent laws and measures bear-
ing upon the Mormon question, but they cannot
destroy the immortal germ of truth which gives
assurance to the Latter-day Saint that the Lord
has commenced to establish his kingdom, nor
can they compass the Almighty in his purposes,
and every weapon formed against Zion will fall
powerless to the ground; and while the tide of
humanity rolls on, this work will prosper, until
the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms
of the Lord and his Christ, and He whose right
it is shall reign forevermore.


