SOMETHING TO DO.

	This title is rather suggestive of a lack of
employment and yet the world is full of work
of one sort or another. There is in the heart
of every man, woman or child a natural long-
ing for somthing to do, but the question which
presents itself is generally, what shall it be?
This causes delay and sometimes while deliber-
ating an evil influence is brought to bear and
the opportunity to do something useful is cast
aside. Thinking of employment to fill up the
intervals reminds me of a remark of Pres.
Young, who often said in illnstration of the
necessity of work, if you really have nothing to
do, pick up chips and when the pan is full,
turn them down and pick them up again.
It is true in every nation and among all classes
of people that,

"Satan finds some mischief still
	For idle hands to do."

	This is not only true of children of both sex-
es but alas! of men and women. When one is
constantly employed there is much less danger
of their falling into difficulties of any sort.
Children should have constant occupation
either work or play. They rest when asleep
but as soon as they wake they look about them
for something to give expression to their forces,
their vigor. As children are growing up it is
the custom in our day to keep them in the
schoolroom three fourths of the year, with little
play time morning and night; during these
early and late hours to employ themselves ac-
cording to their condition in life, for instance
the poor boy or girl must labor, the wealthier
does nothing; in nine cases out of ten perhaps,
it happens that the boy or girl who has to work
out of school hours gets on better than the
one who plays. One obvious reason is that the
boy who has no work to do and is always
playing, very often gets into bad company
among a class of children who have never had
any training, whose lives are a burden to their
parents and who have come into the world
unwelcomed;—parents who totally neglect their
imperative duties to train up their children in the
fear of God, neglect their moral even, in fact they
are left to themselves, without any restraint
or safeguard. Such children are a nuisance in
any neighborhood. Once there was no such
thing to be found here, but as the city increases
in population and streets become crowded with
tenement houses, where poor people huddle into
small rooms in back alleys, this state of things
has developed itself, and it leads one to think
upon the subject of occupation. If such par-
ents would see that their childran have some-
thing to do, they would have less inconvenience
themselves; for left as they are to roam about
the streets, to do whatever Satan finds for their
idle hands and busy brain, they often get into
diffi culty which involves the parents, however
unwilling they may be to assume the responsi-
bility of the guardianship and protection of
their offspring. Something to do then is the
antidote for evil. There is an old saying "that
an ounce of prevention is better than a pound
of cure," and it is emphatically true in this case
Give people something to do and it prevents
melancholy and headache and produces cheer-
fulness and contentment ordinarily. Give
children something to do, if you would not have
them grow up idle, dishonest and worthless, a
burden to themselves and a nuisance in so-
ciety.
