SARAH  CARTER.
WHO  WAS  IN  A  TRANCE SEVEN YEARS.
	     BY HANNAH  T. KING
		  CONCLUDED
 Again I  find  I  have  anticipated circum-
tsances, but my time is precious, and I have to
write  hastily, and  my memory, though  almost
perfect, may  err a  little  as  to  dates, when  it
runs back over more  than  thirty  years, and
since  when  I  have  lived a new life in a new
world;  let  this  be  a  standing apology when I
may mix up things a little!
	But now I gather up the dropped threads of
this  really  wonderful  recital, of  which  every
word is truth, but the half is not told.  I must
now introduce  Betsy  Carter  upon  the  tapis;
you  will  remember  she  is the sister of Sarah.
Her  mother had given  her  all  the  education
she  could  afford and that could be procured at
a  village school.  She was the  rustic  belle of
that  village;  her  complexion  was  a  blending
truly of the rose and the  lily;  her  fair  fore-
head and  rich, dark hair, with  eyes matching,
made her a subject for a painter's beauty.  But
her life was to be a prisoner almost in the bed-
room of her sister.  She had become a beauti-
ful needle-woman–embroidery, working  on
nett,  and  fancy  work  of  all  description,  be-
came  her  sole  occupation,  the  county  ladies
finding her full employment;  Lady  Godolphin
being  her  first  patroness  and  devoted  friend.
She also became the watchful attendant of her
sister, who, though  animation  and  recognition
had  returned, was still, as it were, in a state  of
infancy.  In her room was  her work-table and
chair placed  by  the  window,  and  there  for
years might that young fair face be seen, as the
indefatigable work woman and the watchful at-
tendant of her sister, who  still lay listless  and
inert, but taking now a little  sustenance, as an
infant might do, conversing  in  monosyllables
with  her  mother  and  sister  and  her  friend,
Lady G., who was still a constant visitor to the
family.  This  state  of  things  passed  on  for
some years, and there, day by day and year by
year  sat  the  young and beautiful sister, work-
ing and watching in  angel guise  in  that room,
made remarkable by the events that had taken
place  in  it.  At  last it was  said that  Betsy's
health  was  failing, and  well  it  might, for she
had  no  recreation  beyond  a short  walk now
and then, though her window was  always open
when weather permitted, and the prospect from
it was  bright and airy;  but  she  had  been  for
years  literally a prisoner, and  her  appearance
and that brilliant color indicated delicacy.  For
a  long  time  she waived  off all inquiries as to
her health, but  at  last  she had  to give up her
sedentary  employment.  Dr. Ficklin  ordered
her to walk or  ride  out  much in the open air;
friends fondly came to the rescue, but the fiat
had gone forth- that beautiful, devoted, endur-
ing girl was to be transplanted to the Paradise
of her  Father!  Yes,  surely  her  place  would
be within his presence, if  devoted love, endur-
ing  privation from all  that  youth  so  craves,
purity  of thought  and  action,  love  and  obe-
dience to her mother, and a species  of  worship
to  her  sister, and  through  all working to sus-
tain herself- surely, surely, if  we  are  to  be
judged  by  our "works," her place was a bright
and glorious one!  But I aniticipate. She de-
clined  gradually;  work  was  laid  aside.  The
sisters, on on the bed and the other very often
on the sofa close by, still associated together in
their own peculiar calm  and  quiet way- that
way, which  even  on earth had  heaven  in  it.
At last  she  kept  her  own  room;  and  indeed
she was dying.  Sarah  had  to  be  apprized  of
the  dire fact- but how  would  it  affect  her?
Surely it would at  once  kill  her;  so  reasoned
the poor mother.  But at last  she told her, in
her  own  way, in  words  none  ever  knew, for
they were  alone when  the  cruel truth  was told
her-  How long  had  she to live?  Only a few
hours  at  most.  "Mother, I  must  see  her, we
must  meet;  how  can  it  be  arranged?" She
was more fully aroused now than she had ever
been before. It was arranged; the sofa was
drawn close to the bed, and the dying girl car-
ried by many gentle  hands and laid  upon it.
They at  once  clasped  hands, they  looked the


[Column 1]
love they had neither of them power to enun-
ciate; but they needed no language, their eyes
conveyed all that was necessary. Sarah was
aroused, to a pitch that was marvelous to those
who beheld it, and she never again sunk into
the inertia that her trance had heretofore
thrown around her. The sisters remained be-
side each other enjoying their own mute lan-
guage, till Betsy's eyes closed and she sank
to sleep, sweet and gentle as a weary infant.
The distress of Sarah was dreadful, but she 
could not give directions, express her wishes,
and it seemed the two sisters had become amal-
gamated in one.
	And the poor, heart-stricken mother! even
after all these years my tears fall as I think of
what she must have suffered and endured.
Talk of martyrs! there are thousands that are,
not burnt at stakes, but they pass through
fiery ordeals quite as sharp, quite as bitter, but
they seem to be made of such enduring mate-
rial, that there is an immortality in their composi-
tion, even though mixed with the “earth
earthy.” Such was certainly Mrs. Carter in
her loneliness , in her-strong individuality; she
was still a noble “Spartan mother.” She has
received her reward in heaven ere this, and I
know it must be a rich; a noble one.
	But I must return to Sarah. After this
heavy affliction she gradually returned to ra-
tional life; though always reclining in her bed;
she became conversational and communicative,
as I have portrayed her in my last section.
	It was, at this time that I again commenced
to visit her, and she recounted to me much of
what I have now written, and told me that her
long trance seemed to her only like a night’s 
rest; but all about her seemed so superior, so
etherealized aud spiritual, and still so “one of
us,” that what I am going to say may be
thought a fanciful idea. It often passed
through my mind had her spirit associated
with beings of a superior order, who had
watched over her in that long sleep, that had
fed her mind with heavenly knowledge, and
language too, and had given her an under-
standing and an appreciation of God and
heavenly things, and of his dealings with the
human family in general and of herself in
particular? Her perfect idea of that "better
land," and a strong yearning to enter it, yet de-
sirous to wait his appointed time; her calm,
superior, dignified bearing, where had she ac-
quired all this? Where?  Had she been in
school? Who shall say? She was sustained
bodily, why not spiritually? But like when
we dream beautiful dreams and awake from 
them, they pass away with the awaking, yet
they leave their influence upon us, perhaps for
days, perhaps never to be entirely erased. Who
does not know this? Then perhaps my reflec-
tions upon Sarah Carter’s spiritual education
may-not be so fallacious as at first view it may
appear to be; certain it is that she was visited
by the noble and the educated with a delighted
charm.  Dr. Ficklin would say on rising to 
leave her, "Sarah, whenever I visit you I go 
away a better man."  He had been an army
surgeon, had seen much of all sorts of life in 
its varied phases, was a highly educated man,
a polished gentleman, passing in the highest 
society of the county, yet would he often
come, and take that single chair by that hum- 
ble bedside, sit an hour, and rise up declaring
he was a wiser and a better man than when he
came. Who gave her this heavenly magnet-
ism? Who was her tutor? Where did she get 
it? Who shall say? All we know she had it.
	I will give one more example. The eldest
son of Sir Charles and Lady Wale was a fine,
handsome young man, and his person was
merely the index of his character. He was
very high in the University of Cambridge, and
his parents had educated him to enter the
church as that is of course the vehicle of high
honors and promotion to the highest. But as 

[Column 2]
time drew on for him to “take orders,” he
shrank with his whole soul from fulfilling the
desires of his parents. He worshipped God
with the devotion of a warm and ardent soul,
and it was this very worship. that made him,
feel he was unfit for holy orders, and he could
not dissemble before God, and take that upon
himself which he felt was not his vocation.
And then the cruel disappointment he was go-
ing to bring his parents under made him 
wretched. In this state of mind he more fre-
quently visited Sarah. He would open his
whole soul to her; he would weep at the disap-
pointment of his parents, but with all his sor-
row he felt he could not mock his God.
	Here was another seeking to pour out his
soul, and if possible to derive consolation from
an afflicted Saint. He passed through his or-
deals, but he did not enter the church. He
went abroad making his own pathway as he
went, and died in early manhood.
	One day when I visited her she told me she
was rather troubled, because her mother would
not consent to one of her desires; and she then
went on to tell me what it was. She said: "I
have been, as you know, so singularly affected,
that the doctors have not been able to come to
any decision on my case, and I have talked
with Dr. Ficklin about it, and told him posi-
tively that after death I bequeathed my body
into his hands for his special study and obser-
vation; he has so often told me that my brain
is so affected that nothing but my happy state
of mind preserves my sanity; and the heart is
also so affected that were he to talk to some of
his patients as freely as he does to me upon the
subject, they would probably drop dead at his
feet. But I love to hear him talk, which he
does freely, and if the post mortem examina-
tion of my body can benefit any other human
being, it will certainly add to my happiness.
My mother thinks every good of Dr. F., but
she shrinks from giving her consent so far; I
shall try my rhetoric upon her for a time, and
if she remains obstinate, I must give carte
blanche to him to whom I commit the trust.”
	Soon after this I fell into a very debilitated
state of health, and it was thought advisable
that I should discontinue my visits to the dear
invalid. We exchanged letters, and she sent
me a lock of her hair.
	Time passed. Her guardian angel in human
guise, Lady Godolphin, was called, from this
stage of action. Blessed woman! Tears fell
from the eyes of the poor and the afflicted; for
she was ever their ready friend. Though sur-
rounded by the pomp and luxury of a high
station; she was meek and poor in spirit. How
often I think of her and see her beautiful form
in my mind’s eye, her low, soft voice, and her
sweet angelic spirit, for “on earth she was all
but divine!”
	Time passed on, and I left England. Sarah
Carter, dear girl! did new friends supply the
place of old ones? I hope so. She still lived
years after I left; but all now have passed away
to “that bourne from whence no traveler re-
turns.” No tear of sorrow need be shed for
her; at no stage of her life was she an object
of distress, no, but one of wonder, of awe, and
at last of imitation and rich appreciation.

"Bright be the place of thy soul,
	No lovelier spirit than thine
E'er burst from its mortal control,
	In the realms of the blessed to shine."
