OBITUARIES.
DIED:  At St. Johns  Jan.  16th, 1881, of  pleura
pneumonia, Sister  Mary  Ann Kent in the 61st
year of her age. Deceased was born at Grimstead
Wiltshire England in  the  year 1819. She was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day  Saints in  1851. Emigrated to Utah Co.
in 1860.  Settled in  Rockport,  Weber Co. in 1861.
She removed to Bear  Lake valley in the early
settlement of that place, bore all the harships
of frontier life without a  murmer. During the
last ten  years  of  her  life, she  has lived at St.
Johns near Malad City. At the  organization of
the Relief Society she was called to preside fill-
ing that position until her death, winning the love
and confidence of all the  members;  her  life has
been  filled with deeds  of charity and kindness.
ever ready to minister to the poor and needy,
kind to every one,  none knew  her  but to love
and esteem her; death though  very  sudden was
painless, she passed away like one dropping into
a gentle slumber. Her funeral was the large stone
ever seen in St.  John's there were forty sleighs
well filled followed the remains to their last rest-
ing place, there to remain untill the resurrection
of the just. She leaves a husband two sons and
one daughter and a large circle of friends to mourn 
her loss.  
							COM. 

	DIED: in Manti Feb.  14,  of  old  age, Sister
Lucy Atwood. SHe was  borne Oct. 18 1796, in
the State of New Hampsnire,moved to Connecti-
cut  when  18  years of age and  married Reuben
Atwood. Was the  mother  of  five  children, of
whom three sons and one daughter are  still  liv-
ing.  She first heard the gospel preached by Elder
Phineas  Richards  and  embraced  the same
in 1840.  The  year  following  emigrated to
Nauvoo and remained there during  the exodus.
Her eldest sons were engaged in defending the
Saints, their homes, the widows and orphans who
were at last mercilessly  driven  across the  river-
Although over 83  years  of  age  her faculties
were good and she delighted to tell  some of her
experience in Mormonism  which was  quite  in-
teresting. One circumstance I will relate as ac-
curatety as I can remember.
"Previous to embracing the Gospel her  eldest
daughter had been very sick and confined to her
bed for many months, and  the doctors had  pro-
nounced her case as hopeless--when, the  Latter-
day  Saints  were called  upon  to  administer to
her, she  immediately  arose  from  her  bed  and
the next day walked quite a distance to meeting,
to the astonishment of all who  witnessed it. She
realized the promise made to her that she should
gather with the  saints  and  was  buried at Nau-
voo."
Sister Atwood  passed away  peacefully under
the affectionate care of  her  daughter,  Rebecca
wife of Pres. J. Wareham,  at his  residence, and
who assisted in soothing her  in  her  last  days.
She was an  estimable old  lady and  her memory
will be cherished by all who knew her even down
to her  great grand children.
Deseret News Please Copy.
M. A. H.


