TRIP TO KANAB.

	Bishop Johnson, sent a team, with Brother
Herbert Riggs as teamster, and we, Sisters Zina,
Minerva and your correspondent, left St. George
about noon on the 7th of February, and returned
on the 27th, between three and four P. M.
	Going and returning we camped out three
nights. On our outward trip we camped at the
foot of "Hurricane Hill," on our return, on its
summit. To sit around camp fires, to eat our
suppers by their light, and to breakfast in their
warmth, constituted very interesting reminis-
cences of our bygone experience, when, expelled
from our homes and the land of our birth, we
fathomed the deep untrodden wilds of the inte-
rior; going we knew not where, in search of the
religious liberty guaranteed by our sacred Con-
stitution and wrested from us by its Executives!
But what a contrast! Then we were fugitives,
with a desert wilderness before us—now, as
mothers in Israel, on our way to happy homes of
faithful Saints of God, and the congregations of
noble mothers and the pure and lovely daugh-
ters of Zion.
	We arrived at Bishop W.D. Johnson’s, Kanab
on the 10th. The next evening we were in-
vited to attend a "Ward Social," (to which all
the Ward was invited,) where, after the opening
services of singing and prayer, we learned, to
our great surprise, that the party, consisting of
upwards of three hundred, was in honor of our-
selves, and, of course, our speeches were on the
programme.
	Now that you have so recently endured a sur-
prise, you know how to sympathize with us.
However, our great, overwhelming surprise ter-
minated very satisfactorily—the "Social" was a
success, perfect union prevailed, we had a men-
tal, spiritual and temporal feast, and all were
happy.
	The next day we organized a Ward and Stake
Primary Associations. The following day met
with the Relief Society at five P. M., and or-
ganized a Stake Silk Association. On the 15th
went to Long Valley; met with the R. S., also
with the children and organized them. From
there to Orderville, the Bishop of Orderville
having sent a team for us, where we organized
three Primary Associations; also one in Glendale,
and there also met with the Relief Society. We
stayed one night in Glendale, and returned to
Orderville and met with the young gentlemen
and ladies; and in Orderville spent the second
Sunday after leaving St. George.
	There our home was with Coun. Howard
Spencer and family, although we visited several
of our old acquaintances and some new ones in
their places of residence; was everywhere re-
ceived with a hearty welcome, and were treated
with all possible kindness. The longer I stayed
in Orderville the more home feeling I realized.
The people seem united and happy; those that
are able are indomitable workers—the invalids
and aged sharing liberally the fruits of their toil.
As a community they live within their income,
the men raising the supplies for their tables, and,
minus of all machinery, the women manufac-
ture the most of their clothing. All we saw
were dressed plain and well. We shall long re-
member with pleasure and gratitude our visit
with the good people of Orderville.
	From Kanab to Long Valley and its three set-
tlements we had the pleasure of the company of
Bishop Johnson, his wife and uncle, and Sister
Bunting, and should have returned with them,
had not the people of Orderville proposed send-
ing us by team to Kanab, and thence to John-
son, if we would stop with them till Monday—
the Bishop being under the necessity of return-
ing on Friday. Accordingly, on the 21st, Brother
Israel Hoyt took us to Kanab, and next to John-

[Column 2]
son, where we met the Bishop and party. Met
with the Relief Society. Stopped overnight;
morning organized the children and returned to
Kanab, where we were much at home.with the
Bishop and family.
	If any one dare say that women cannot be
happy in plural marriage, let him or her visit
Bishop W. D. Johnson’s family; and as a live
Bishop he cannot be excelled, looking after the
interest of all from the oldest down to the little
ones; he is in their midst, taking the wayward
by the hand and kindly pointing out their reck-
lessness and guiding them to the path of safety
and honor; meeting with and taking part in the
recreations of all ages, from the white-haired
veteran down to the little curly-headed prattler
occbpying the lowest seat in the baby circle;
These little ones all feel that the Bishop is their
friend and none seem afraid to approach him. In
noticing this, I could not help contrasting his
course, and the effect everywhere apparent, with
those Bishops who never have visited the Pri-
mary meetings in their wards.
	In Kanab, the three settlements in Long Val-
ley and in Johnson, we noticed with admiration
that the Word of Wisdom, so far as tea, coffee
and tobacco are concerned, is better observed
than in most places elsewhere that we have vis-
ited. Brothers Charles Oliphant and Heber
Clayton accompanied us from Kanab to this
place.
	I have some work yet to do in the Temple,
and, unless something special shall oocur, shall
remain here until after the St. George Stake
Conference, which commences two weeks from
yesterday. It is expected that four of the Apos-
tles will be present. Soon after that we expect
an opportunity of getting to the R. R. by private
conveyance—much preferable to stage.
								E. R. S. S.
	March 6,1881.


