THE PIONEER MOTHERS.

	Written for the 74th Birthday Anniversary of Sister
Phebe Woodruff, and respectfully inscribed to all the
pioneer mothers and veterans of Zion.

A song for the mothers! the pioneer mothers!
	The veterans of Zion, our boast of to-day;
The world may discard them, but God will reward them,
	He'll crown them as queens in his kingdom for aye.

The staunch Pilgrim Mothers! The brave Mormon
	Mothers!
	Who time and again of their all have been shorn;
The blessing of God o'er their loyalty hovers,
	Who honored the truth 'mid oppression and scorn.

The sonnd of salvation, astonished the nation—
	So used was the world to the darkness of night;
That the silence was broken, Jehovah had spoken,
Was "shameful delusion," 'twas sacrilege quite.

Dupes, fools and deceivers, men called Truth's believers,
	The faithful were hunted and scorned and oppressed;
Nor Justice, nor jury condemned the mob's fury—
	What right had the Mormons to hope for redress?

What a social convulsion! the utter expulsion
	Of the Saints from their loved, from their fated
	Nauvoo;
The martyr's blood even is crying to heaven!
	To the righteous Avenger, "the Holy and True."

We honor the heroes, whose heads are now hoary,
	Who fought in those battles for truth and for right;
They shall live in our hearts, and the mantle of glory
	Shall encircle them still, like a halo of light.

We honor our brethren, so fearless and zealous,
	Who conquered the desert in Liberty's cause;
But the scrolls of the past most assuredly tell us
	That the Mothers of Zion, should share the applause.

May their deeds stir to valor the young generation,
	May they cleave to the faith with their natures en-
	twin'd,
True scions of Freedom, though some may mislead
	them,
They'll yet build the Kingdom Jehovah designed.

Of course they have failings—and none are without
	them—
	Yet the faults of the true are as specks on the wave;
Mortality's weakness must needs be about them,
	But some will do honor to parents so brave.

Then a song for the Mothers, the Pioneer Mothers,
	And the true Mormon Mothers of even to-day;
The world may discard them, but God will reward them,
	He'll crown them as queens in his Kingdom for aye.
	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City, March.


[Column 1]
LIVING LINKS:
OR
