HUMAN MIND.

	The mighty oak, which seems in itself a for-
est, attained this wonderful size by many years
of steady growth. From the tiny acorn,hidden
in the bosom of tne earth, shoots are sent up,
bud after bud, leaf after leaf, are unfolded un-
til wonderful change it has risen from insig-
nificance to be monarch of the forest.
So with the mind of man. The infant's, like
the small seed that is planted in the earth,
seems to be of little consequence in its first
stages: but it gradually expands, develops,
obtains wider view, until, when its possessor
has attained maturer years, it becomes a some-
thing of admiration and reflection.
The Giver of all good has bestowed upon us


abilities, which in our early years, differ but
little from each other. There is a greater sim-
ilarity in the minds of children than in persons
of riper years. This latter difference is not
due so much to the fact that nature has been
partial to some, and favored them with minds
superior to others, as it is the result of careful
training, perseverance, and a determination to
advance.
	The receiver of a gift is expected to apppeci-
ate that gift, according to its value, or in pro-
portion to his estimation of the giver. We are
all the recipients of one of the most precious
gifts that could be bestowed upon human be-
ings; that is the power of acquiring knowledge.
	We are also responsible for this favor granted
us. If we neglect it, and treat it with indiffer-
ence,it is a sufficient proof that we are ungrate-
ful for this kindness; and ingratitude is classed
as one of the greatest sins.
	Besides this it is a well known fact that our
mental faculties, like the muscles of the body,
if left inactive, not strained to exertion, but
lying dormant, will become weak, ineffective,
and diminish in power.
	While, on the other hand, if the mind is ex-
erted in obtaining information from every con-
ceivable source, being continually active, it,
like the arm of the earnest manual laborer,
will become stronger, increase in power in
proportion to its legitimate use.
	We should, then become acquainted with,
and have a general knowledge of every science.
	A knowledge of mineralogy and chemistry
enables us to view even the inanimate objects
of nature with admiration and interest; and
the dull rock which the careless observer would
not deign to notice, has become a fit subject
for thought, and awakens within us a feeling
which creates a desire to penetrate the mysteries
and learn more of the wonders of nature. A
knowledge of plants is elevating and refining,
causing the unattractive thistle to be as much
an object of beauty as the most gorgeous flower
of tropical climes.	*	*	*	*
	We shall thus be able to converse more
agreeably on various subjects.
	And what can be more pleasing than to listen
to a good conversationalist? One who can set
forth his ideas in pleasing terms? I recall to
mind an instance of this kind. An elderly gen-
tleman, while talking on his favorite subject,has
so concentrated my attention that I have been
perfectly oblivious to all else: and so intensely
engrossed in his subject was he that it seemed
to be a part of himself. His face all aglow
with animated thought, caused one to become
enraptured, and partake of the powerful in-
fluence exerted by the speaker.
	If the habit of talking on topics of a lofty
nature, were to become universal, what a
change there would be in our fireside conversa-
tion! Then the tales of scandal would be at a
discount, and the tongue of gossip would be
silent.						CAMEO.


