ENJOYABLE AFFAIR.

	A large number of ladies and gentlemen,
friends and relatives of Mrs. Phebe Woodruff,
met at her residence March 8, at 5 P. M., to do
honor to the veteran lady, and celebrate the an-
niversary of her 74th birthday. The party had
been arranged by her daughters while the
mother was away, through their strategy, at the
Woodruff Farm a short distance from the city.
On her return per programme, she was ushered
into her own parlor, which was filled with her
most intimate friends, when her daughter, Mrs.
Phebe W. Snow came to her relief by making a
very pretty little speech, suitable to the occasion,
expressing the congratulations of her children
and friends. There were present, Pres. John
Taylor, Coun. D. H. Wells, Bishop Edward
Hunter, Bishop L. W. Hardy, Elder George
Goddard, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Elder George
Reynolds, Bishop Thomas Taylor, with their
wives, and many other brethren and sisters,
about seventy in all.
	After all the expected guests had arrived, Sis-
ter Woodruff was presented with the portraits of
three of her daughters, and some other articles
of value, and an elegant easy chair; the presenta
tion was made by her grandson, Leslie Snow,
in a pleasing little address suited to the occasion.


A sumptuous supper followed, the blessing at
the tables beign prounced by the veteran Bishop,
Edward Hunter. After supper speeches were
made and many good wishes and congratulations
tendered Sister Woodruff by those present.
Bishop Hnnter was the first speaker, then fol-
lowed Bishop Hardy, Sister Presendia L. Kim-
ball, Elder George Goddard, Elder George Rey-
nolds and Sister M. I. Horne. Mrs. E. B.
Wells read a poem, "The Pioneer Mothers," in-
scribed to Sister Woodruff, composed by Emily
Hill Woodmansee. Mrs. E. B. Ferguson sang
"Nearer my God to Thee," Brothers Goddard
and Marks joining in the chorus. Coun. D. H.
Wells, Pres. John Taylor, Hon. C. W. Penrose,
Sister S. M. Kimball and Bishop Thomas Tay-
lor all expressed themselves in a few words and
happy congratulations, good wishes, etc. Some
hymns were sung during the evening, and the
hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,"
was joined in by the whole company, and the
party closed with prayer by Brother Edward
Stevenson.
	The affair was really an enjoyable one, the
only drawback being the absence of Bro. Wood-
ruff. We add our cordial congratulations, and
wish Sister Woodruff many years of future use-
fulness and prosperity, and a continual increase
of wisdom and knowledge concerning the prin-
ciples of eternal life.			E. B. W.


