REPORTS.

	The semi-monthly General Retrenchment
Meeting in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Feb. 12, 1881, was a very interest-
ing one, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding, and of
her Counselors there were present Mrs. B. W.


Smith, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball and Mrs. E. Howard. Opened by singing
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Prayer by
Mrs. E. Howard. Singing, "O my Father."
Minutes of former meeting were read and ac-
cepted, also minutes of the Primary Associa-
tions of the 11th, 9th and 3d Wards of this
city. Mrs. Horne made some remarks in re-
gard to the sisters administering to the sick,
and exhorted them to seek wisdom of God and
be cautious in all they did; gave good instruc-
tion, which, if put in practise, would preserve
the sisters from any indiscretion.
	Mrs. E. S. Clawson gave a synopsis of her
visit to the East, and told many interesting in-
cidents connected with her trip: referred to
her visit to her early home, and the recollec-
tions it brought so vividly to mind. Spoke of
her visit to Nauvoo and many other places.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells made a few remarks upon
the condition of the young people, the facili-
ties now enjoyed for mental and spiritual cul-
ture, and the indifference evinced by many to
the manifold blessings in which their lives
were so abundantly rich. Earnestly exhorted
mothers to urge their daughters to seek knowl-
edge and understanding from good books, and
be cautious in regard to their associations; dis-
card frivolity and nonsense, and prepare them-
selves for the mighty work which would be ex-
pected of them as daughters of Zion.
	Mrs. M. A. Wilcox made some excellent re-
marks, in a humble and childlike manner.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor continued the subject of
improvement, and said that decorum was one
of the things in which our young ladies should
be instructed. It seemed that many who came
here for the Gospel's sake lost their interest in
the work for which they had left home and
friends, and were carried away with outside in-
fluence; through this their minds became dark-
ened. If we could influence the young ladies
to attend their meetings, they would be guided
in a proper channel and fed with spiritual food,
and this would give them strength to endure
the trials they would meet from day to day.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon the subject
of equality and the feeling which she believed
should exist towards those who are employed
as help in families; had sometimes felt it would
be a good idea if there were teachers in the
Young. Ladies' Associations, as there was in
the Relief Society.
	Mrs. Horne took up the same subject, ex-
pressing her views in regard to the employer
and the employed.
	Mrs. E. Howard spoke upon faith in the
healing power, and related an incident of the
manifestation of the power of God in a very
simple manner. She continued the subject of
help; said the rich were as much dependent
upon the poor as the poor were upon the rich.
It is our mission to seek to do good to all
people.
	Sung, Doxology. Prayer by Mrs. B. W.
Smith.


