CONTINUED.
	My father begins his own life by saying: "I
was born June 14, 1801, in the town of Shel-
don, Franklin Co., Vermont, about forty miles
from Montreal, ten miles from the shores of
Lake Champlain, and ten miles from St. Al-
bans, the county town, living between the Ma-
sisko and Black rivers.
	"Judge Chase, with whom my father was
brought up, called to see my parents soon after
I was born, and he proposed to name me Heber
Chase, which they did.
	"About the time of the great eclipse in 1806,
I commenced going to school, and continued
most of the time until about the age of four-
teen. I recollect the eclipse well, as my father
was about to start on a journey, but obliged to
wait on account of the darkness.
	"In February, 1811 when my father moved
his family from Sheldon to West Bloomfield, a
distance of about five hundred miles, I remem-
ber when we reached St. Albans my father
bought each of his boys a hat, which was the
first hat I ever had. We traveled on Lake
Champlain on the ice; the wind being very
high, my hat was blown off and lost.
	"When fourteen years of age my father took
me into his shop, and began to teach me the
blacksmith trade. When nineteen, he having
lost his property, and not taking the care for
my welfare which he formerly did, I was left to
seek a place of refuge of my own.
	"At this time I saw some days of sorrow;
my heart was troubled, and I suffered much in
consequence of fear, bashfulness and timidity,
I found myself cast abroad upon the world,
without a friend to console my grief; in those
heart-aching hours I suffered much for the
want of food and the comforts of life, and
many times went two or three days without
food to eat, being bashful and not daring to
ask for it.
	"After I had spent several weeks in the
manner before stated, my oldest brother,
Charles, hearing of my condition, offered to
teach me the potter's trade. I immediately
accepted the offer, and continued with him un-
til I was twenty-one.
	"I was enrolled with my brother Charles in
an independent horse company of the New
York militia, under Captain Sawyer, who lived
in East Bloomfield. With him and his suc-
cessor I trained fourteen years; one year more
would have entitled me to exemption from fur-
ther military duty. I was never brought be-
fore a court martial, or found delinquent in my
duty.
	"While living with my brother he moved into
the town of Mendon, Monroe Co., (six miles
north of Bloomfield, towards the city of
Rochester) where he again established a pot-
tery. After I had finished learning my trade,
I worked for six months with my brother for
wages.
	"Nov. 7, 1822, I married Vilate Murray,
the youngest daughter of Roswell and Susan-
nah Murray, born in Florida, Montgomery Co.,
New York, June 1, 1806. She was their fourth
child, and had lived with her parents in Vic-
tor, Ontario Co."
	I am here reminded of the following inci-
dent, which has in it quite a touch of romance,
and though it is not written in my father's
history, is one that I have heard related in the
family since childhood.
	One warm day in summer, as my father was
riding through the little town of Victor, being
very thirsty, he stopped before a house where a
gentleman was at work in the front yard, and
asked him for a drink of cold water; and as
he went to the well to draw a fresh bucketfull,
he called his daughter Vilate to fetch a glass,

[Column 2]
which he filled and sent by her to the young
stranger, who it seems understood her name to
be Milatie. Not long after this he again had
occasion to go to Victor, and as he came in
sight of this cottage, he suddenly became
thirsty, and seeing the same gentleman, he
rode up to the gate and asked him for a drink
of water. After drawing a fresh bucket he
(my grandfather) was about to hand it himself
when he said: "If you please, I'd rather Mi-
latie would bring it to me;" so he called her
and sent the water by her. She was the
youngest and the pet of the family, who gener-
ally called her Latie; of course this circum-
stance afforded a great deal of fun and amuse-
ment for her sister and brothers.
	Some of our family have been East and vis-
ited the old homesteads in Mendon and Victor,
which still look natural. Of course the scenes
around there had a peculiar charm for them;
they remembered the story of the well, which
they visited, and drank from the "old oaken
bucket, the iron-bound bucket, the moss-covered
bucket that hung in the well."
	My father continues: "Immediately after I
was married I purchased the situation of my
brother Charles, and went into business for
myself at the potter's trade, which I carried
on in the summer season, and worked at black-
smithing in the winter. I also chopped cord
wood and cleared land occasionally. I con-
tinued in the pottery business upwards of ten
years, and in the mean time I made a purchase
of five and a half acres of land, and built a
fine house, woodhouse, barn and other out-
houses, planted fruit trees, and had situated
myself so as to live comfortably."
	"February, 1824, my mother died of con-
sumption in the town of West Bloomfield. In
the spring of 1825 my father came to Mendon
and lived with me; he soon took sick and died
of consumption about a year after my mother's
death. My oldest brother, Charles S., and his
wife, whose maiden name was Judith Marvin,
died in the year 1826 or 7, and were buried in
Mendon by the side of my father. The record
of my father's family fell into the hands of my
sister Eliza, to whom I have written for an ac-
count, but have not yet been able to obtain it.
	"In 1823 I received the three first degrees of
Masonry, namely, entered apprentice, fellow
craft and master mason in the lodge at Victor
Flats, Ontario Co., five miles east of where I
was living, Lote Lawson acting as the Master
of the Lodge, Ezra Wilmoth, Jarvies Gillies,
Enos Gillies, Samuel Gillies and Nathaniel
Campbell (a brother-in-law of mine) were
present at my initiation, with perhaps fifty
others, whom I could mention if necessary.
In 1824 myself and five others sent a petition
to the chapter at Canandaigua, the County
Seat of Ontario County, to receive the degrees
up to the Royal Arch Maso[-], our petition was
accepted, but just previous to the time that we
were to receive those degrees, the Morgan
affair broke out, and the Masonic Hall in
Canandaigua, where the chapter met, was
burned by the Anti-Masons, and all the records
consumed. There are thousands of Masons
that lived in those days who are well aware
of the persecution and unjust proceedings
which were heaped upon them by the Anti-
Masons; not as many as three of us could meet
together, unless in secret, without being
mobbed.
	"I have been driven from my houses and
possessions, with many of my brethren belong-
ing to that fraternity, five times, by mobs led
by some of their leading men. Hyrum Smith
received the three first degrees of Masonry in
Ontario County, New York. Joseph and
Hyrum Smith were Master Masons, yet they
were massacred through the instrumentality of
some of the leading men of that fraternity
through the States, and not one soul of them
has ever stepped forth to administer help to

[Column 3]
me or my brethren belonging to the Masonic
institution, or to render us assistance, although
bound under the strongest obligations to be
true and faithful to each other in every case
and under every circumstance, the commtssion
of crime excepted.
	"I have been as true as an angel from the
heavens to the covenants I made in the Lodge
at Victor. No man was admitted into a Lodge
in those days except he bore a good moral
character and was a man of steady habits; and
a member would be suspended for getting
drunk, or any other immoral conduct. I wish
that all men were Masons and would live up
to their profession; then the world would be
in a much better state than it is now."
	The great blessings now enjoyed by the
Latter-day Saints in these valleys can be better
appreciated when we recall some of the earlier
scenes, when poverty and sufferings were the
common lot of all. The generation of to-day
know little or nothing concerning the history
of those who first stood forth in the defense of
the truths which were taught by Joseph Smith,
the founder of this great and marvelous work
which has caused such a commotion, not only
in America, but throughout every nation; and
this being the fiftieth year, it seems a fitting
time to review their history, and let the world
know that they were Americans, and were
born and reared in the midst of the Green
Mountains, and were true representatives of
the men and women of '76, and that that spirit
of independence has not died out, but is still
burning in the hearts of their children, and
the thousand and one trials which our enemies
have caused us to pass through, have only
fanned the flame. Long and hard have they
fought to hold us under their heel, but all of
their struggles have been in vain. It is true
we have been whipped, but we have never been
conquered; in the midst of what seemed the
most dangerous and critical times, our spirits
were the most buoyant; we were strangers to
fear, and injustice and oppression can never
break nor subdue that spirit. This pure moun-
tain air which we have so long enjoyed has in-
creased that love of freedom, which is our
rightful inheritance, and Americans are paying
themselves rather a poor compliment when tra-
ducing the characters of men and women who
so nearly resemble their own Puritan fathers
and mothers; but in spite of all their efforts
truth will prevail.
	Surely it was the Spirit of the Almighty
that inspired Columbus to seek out the new
world, and filled the hearts of the Pilgrims
with an unquenchable desire for liberty, a boon
that was denied them in their fatherland.
Nothing could daunt their spirits, but placing
their trust in Him, they undertook the perilous
voyage across the great deep, in search of a
home, where they might enjoy freedom and re-
ligious liberty without molestation; and their
children were filled with the same valor and
love for the glorious cause of liberty, which
was their battle cry, and under the sacred ban-
ner of freedom they fought in defense of their
rights, which they have risked so much to gain.
It was the same spirit which animated and in-
spired the hearts of the Latter-day Saints when
they left their homes in the winter to undertake
a journey over the trackless wastes to these
Rocky Mountains, to obtain freedom from tyr-
anny and oppression, where they could enjoy
the rights bequeathed to them by these same
fathers and mothers of our common country,
and added to this is our glorious religion, the
pure Gospel of Christ, revealed through Joseph,
the Prophet of God, by which, instead of bring-
ing us into bondage, every soul is made free.
	To be Continued.


The inauguration of President Garfield was 
the most elaborate of the kind.


