SOCIAL GATHERING.
	On Monday, Feb. 28, a large number of ladies
and gentlemeu, friends of Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells, met at her residence in the 13th Ward, to
celebrate the anniversary of her birthday (al-
though she was born on the 29th). The party,
which was a complete surprise to Sister Wells,
included President John Taylor, Apostle F. D.
Richards, Coun. D. H. Wells, Hon. C. W. Pen-
rose, Hon. Wm. Jennings, Elder George Rey-
nolds, and wives, with from forty to fifty more,
who all united in this expression of their esteem
and respect for her.
	After the company had all assembled, Sister
Wells was the recipient of a series of surprises,
which she endured with considerable fortitude.
In the first place, her daughters presented her
with an elegant gold chain, and this was followed
by the reading of a poem, a birthday greeting
from Mrs. Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson then, in the name of those present,
and others who were unavoidably absent, pre-
sented Sister Wells with a handsome gold watch,
as a token of appreciation of her valuable ser-
vices to the women of Zion in all their organiza-
tions in the Church, as the unflinching advocate
of their social, political and religious freedom,
and a s a testimonial of their personal regard
and esteem. Mrs. Wells was quite overcome by
this unexpected, though not undeserved, honor,
but through the timely assistance and tact of
Mrs. E. Howard, was spared the necessity of a
lengthened reply. An elegant repast was then
served, to which all the guests did justice, and
various toasts were drank to the health and
prosperity of Mrs. Wells and her family.
	After supper a poem, written for Mrs. Wells
and entitled "Appreciation," by Mrs. Emily
Hill Woodmansee, was read. A kind and com-
plimentary speech from Pres. John Taylor,
written address by Dr. R. B. Pratt, and social
conversation occupied the time until a late hour,
when the company dispersed, feeling that they
had enjoyed a delightful season of social and
friendly intercourse, and wishing Sister Wells
many happy returns of the day, with every
spiritual and temporal blessing to crown her fu-
ture years.
