CONTINUED.

	The winter brought few changes; the moun-
tain passes were blocked with snow, and all
communication with the outside world ceased
for many months. The following spring James
Smith started for the gold mines, with a com-
pany that was going through. His wife hav-
ing no children, and being a dear friend of
Mary's, persuaded her to share her home during
his absence. It was pleasanter for both, as 
they were much alone, and  could be more com-
fortable by living together.
	The long, lonely years crept by, with very little
change to break the monotony. Jesse's part-
ner built a comfortable home for Mary, the
first she had lived in since leaving her nice home
in Nauvoo. She had moved about from one
old cabin to another, with smoky chimneys 
and leaky roofs until life seemed a round of weari
ness and discouragements. She said no one
knew how happy she was to have a roof that
kept her dry when it stormed. Minnie grew
so fast that people began to think her a young
lady. She went to school and made the best
of her opportunities for getting an education;
it was not much, for only the commonest
branches were taught, but it proved a blessing
to her in after life. In writing to her relatives
in the East, she often expressed her regrets at
not having better opportunities.
	The tide of humanity still flowed in to the
Pacific coast and emigration continued to
come to the mountains. Other villages were dis-
covered, other settlements made, and prospects
altogether were improving. The Indians
caused the settlers some alarm and a great deal
of trouble and expense by stealing their cattle
and killing some men, but, after spending con-
siderable time and means, peace was finally re-
stored, and treaties were made which proved to 
be satisfactory for awhile. So the time pasaed
until Minnie was nearing her fifteenth birth-

[Column 2]
day, when they were surprised one day by the
arrival of her uncle Howard, Jesse's brother, 
from California. He had come, he said, to
take them to her father. Jesse, thinking he
could do better to have his family with him,
had sent his brother with means for their re-
moval, and full power to settle up his business
in Salt Lake. The partnership was dissolved
by giving the mill and all connected with it
to his partner and calculations made to start as
soon as the spring opened to "the land of gold"
Mary thought of no other course but to go, al-
though it was with some misgivings that she
began to make preparations. California was a 
rough place, filled with all kinds of people
whom gold had attached to its shores. Jesse
was fond of liquor, and before leaving the
states had shown a disposition to let the ap-
petite grow upon him. Many reports had come
during his absence, of his self-indulgence. 
Mary was grieved to hear such things of her
high-minded, intelligent husband, but, knowing
what slaves liquor makes of its votaries, she
feared it was too true. She had hoped that on
his return to the valley where very little could
be obtained, and no temptations were laid to 
ensnare him, he would get weaned from the
fatal indulgence. He did not mean to give
liquor an undue advantage: he thought a strong-
minded man might drink a little if he chose and 
when he chose, so long as he did not become in-
toxicated and it would do him no harm. He
was too proud to allow himself to become a 
drunkard, but, if sick or low-spirited a little
brandy was an excellent tonic, and Mary's kind
admonitions only angered him, that she had so
little confidence in his strength of mind and
self-respect.
	Next came thoughts of where her duty lay.
The Church did not approve of its members 
scattering to the gold fields: no community could
prosper or build up, especially in such a coun-
try as this, without standing firm and holding
a common bond of brotherhood. It was not
gold they wanted, but homes; labor, agriculture,
manufacturies, orchards, vineyards, education 
and refinement. Union was strength, and all 
these possibilities of the future lay within their
reach only through perseverance and united
efforts. Seek first the kingdom of God and
his righteousness and all else shall be added.
How could it be if they returned to Bablyon.
They had gathered out of her borders, poor,
needy, half-famished she had cast them forth
to make homes in the desert, or perish in the
wilderness. Should they after suffering so
many hardships, and enduring so much, give
it all up just as the means of comfort seemed
within their reach?  Their religion taught them 
to gather together and build Temples wherein
to perform the ordinances of baptism and do a 
work for the dead, whereby they might bring
about the redemption of Israel. Through the
ordinances of the Gospel and the teachings of
Christ; to prepare themselves for eternity,
through the Celestial Law as revealed to Jos-
eph Smith the Prophet; whereby they might
inherit thrones, principalities, and powers in the
kingdom of God. All these things with the
redemption of her father's household were be-
fore her. The children she had buried in those
long-past years, and whose dear presence she
had promise of once more beholding to claim
them for her own, in that bright land where
there is no more partings: an exaltation in the
kingdom of God and partake of His glory.
For these she had suffered partings, privations
and sorrow, cold, hunger and fatigue. Should
she turn back when the hardest of the journey
seemed over and the goal almost won? True
Jesse did not wish to give up all these things;
he still clung to his faith and did not intend to 
leave it; only to work for a few years where he
liked the climate and surroundings better.
Where he could make means easier, and keep
	s family more comfortable. He did not re-

[Column 3]
alize that influences were leading him each
year father away from the principles he pro-
fessed, nor taking his family away was the be-
ginning of the course that would take him from
the Church entirely; but others saw it and
warned Mary of the result of going away from
the body of the Church.
			To be continued.


