CONTINUED.

	A few years previous to the preaching of the
Gospel in England by the Latter-day Saints,
there were devout persons amongst almost every
denomination of Christians, as there are now;
but at that time, especially from the year 1830
to 1835, there was a large average of that class
 of worshippers. A movement commenced at
Preston, the very place where the great tem-
perance movement was begun in 1833; some of
the Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints arrived there from Amer-
ica, and they began to preach the doctrines be-
lieved in by the members of that Church.
The history of the doings of our people in

[Column 2]
England is before the world, as written in our
publications, and as placed on record by those
who were opposed to us as a people. With
great rapidity it became known in religious
circles that the new sect founded by Joseph
Smith had been introduced from America, and
that thousands were being proselyted by the
preaching of the "Mormon" missionaries. This
caused considerable alarm, for it was soon dis-
covered that those who received the new doc-
trines were among the very best of the various
churches. But this was not all; it was found
useless to attempt to persuade the new converts
to return back to their former church asso-
ciates. Many were the speculations as to the
cause of this perversity; persons were "labored
with" by zealous members, but in vain. The
conclusion was soon reached that it was "better
to let people alone when they joined the 'Mor-
mons,' for they became crazy with fanaticism."
	With such an extensive organization as the
London City Mission, it was impossible to es-
cape notice that thousands were being "delud-
ed;" every week the missionaries belonging to
that body gave in their reports at a central
office, and however much rejoicing was mani-
fested when an announcement was made of
some case of "conversion," great indignation
was expressed at the reports of people being
"deluded" and led away by the "Mormons."
"Why," said a superintendent of that Mission
to the writer, "I should really not have known
but what this 'Mormon' was a Christian!" The
gentleman had been appointed by the Mission
to visit one of the new converts, to see if he
could reclaim him. He went on: "When I
went into his room he rose from his seat and
shook hands with me heartily. He was of the
poorer class, but surrounded by all that is nec-
essary to make a working man's home com-
fortable. I told him the purport of my visit;
that I was sorry he had turned his back upon
the people of God and gone after the followers
of a false prophet like Joseph Smith. 'How
do you know that Joseph Smith was a false
prophet?' asked the 'Mormon' convert, without
betraying the least acerbity of feeling. I tried
to reason with him, by showing him that proph-
ets are not appointed by the Lord as they were
anciently, but I found I had a biblical Goliath
to do battle with. He took down the Bible
and tried to show me 'there could be no true
church without [--]ophets and Apostles.' He
argued that 'wherever the Church of Christ is
found, there the ordinances of the Gospel are
administered.' That 'faith in God and repent-
ence must go before baptism;' that 'baptism
must be for the remission of sins;' that to be effi-
cacious 'it must be administered by one who
has received authority from God.' It was vain
to try to show him that the command given to
the disciples anciently to go forth and baptize
was a divine command to-day to all who be-
lieved in baptism as 'a sign of spiritual grace,'
or 'to answer a good conscience.' He insisted
that 'those who are baptized should know that
their sins are forgiven, and that 'they should re-
ceive the Holy Ghost as a witness from God that
they have obeyed His commands, and had
been baptized by His authority.' All this and
a great deal more was said with an assurance
that astonished me, and I must also say in a
Christian spirit that I certainly had not ex-
pected." The writer ventured to hint that the
"Mormon" seemed to be as sound in his theolo-
gy as the writers of the New Testament Scrip-
tures. "Self-righteousness, all of it: efficacy

[Column 3]
in the water, in the laying on of hands, and
outward ordinances! There is no efficacy in
anything but the blood of Jesus Christ, and
him crucified," he replied.
	Not only were the churches of England los-
ing some of their most earnest members by
reason of the preaching of the Latter-day El-
ders, large numbers were being drafted into
infidelity. Probably the great rejoicings among
religious bodies at the time the Prophet Joseph
Smith was murdered, had a greater effect in
that direction than the opposition shown to the
doctrines of his followers. Thinking men
could not have a very exalted opinion of those
who indulged in the spirit of murder; and the
sceptical in the churches, who were not a few
among the young, these forsook the association
of religionists and sought for solace in the as-
semblies of infidels of the most extreme class.
The revival spirit gradually died out from the
churches; those who had proclaimed that Jesus
was coming became silent; prophecies about
the Millennium being at hand ceased to be ut-
tered; reverend pamphleteers who had pre-
dicted the day and hour in which Christ should
appear, after once or twice correcting dates,
and still finding their prognostications were-
false, these also ceased to prophesy. The truth
appears to be that the Spirit of the Lord that
had really exerted an influence among men for-
a season, had either been withdrawn in degree,
or had changed its operations in some new di-
rection.
	Now Mr. Unipod, the missionary, had a great
dislike to "Mormonism," and he, in common
with other religious persons, had at length
given up the second advent of our Lord Jesus
Christ. But his eldest son had heard the Gos-
pel at one of the meetings of the Latter-day
Saints; as a consequence of this he had been
baptized and received the Holy Ghost, by
which he was enabled to see in a degree the
true meaning and intent of God towards the
human family. The truth is the mother of
this man had been a woman of faith, and she
had taught her son the value of prayer as a
means to obtain favor with God. She pointed
to the experience of Saints in all ages, as made
known in the history of the patriarchs and
prophets; she explained the meaning of dreams
and visions, and the reality of the visits of an-
gels to men. She taught her child to pray
from his earliest infancy, and the lesson was
never forgotten. However wayward and dis-
posed to wander in by and forbidden paths, the
prayers of the mother were remembered and
false steps were retraced. Oh, did women
know the power they have over their offspring,
there would be more faith in the world than
there is; for little children believe in a mother!
The germ of faith may be planted in the
youngest heart, and, if it is constantly watered
by the dews of heaven drawn down by a moth-
er's prayers, the truth will never die! As in
the natural world the spiritual controls the
temporal, the ethereal and unseen forces bind-
ing them together, so in the world of mind
there are living links connecting families, by
which the spirit of the fathers and the children-
are united by the welding influences of the
spirit of our Heavenly Father.

To be Continued.


The Czar of Russia Alexandea II was brutal-
ly assassinated by the Nihilists, a bombshell
thrown ander his carriage, March 13, 1881.
He died two hours after.


