HOME AFFAIRS.
 MRS. Ellen C. S. Clawson wishes the Secreta-
ries of all the Primary Associations in the county
to send in reports immediately for the coming
Conference.

 THE Rev. Alessandro Gavazzi, the famous
Italian evangelist, and associate of Garibaldi, ar-
rived in this city Sunday just before noon. He
held two meetings to crowded houses. His au-
dience was electrified by his eloquence, though
the Good Father is now seventy-two years of 
age.

 THE Stake Conference of Relief  Societies, Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Co., will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday and Saturday, March 25 and
26. It is earnestly requested by the presiding
sisters of these orgaizations that there be a full
attendance of the officers from each respective
brauch as far as practicable, and of all who are
interested in these association.
	CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.- Dr. Romania B.
Pratt will commence her fourth class in Mid-
wifery April 11, 1881. The increasing demand
that there is from all the settlements in the Ter-
ritory for qualified midwives, should stimulate
the sisters to more earnest efforts in this direc-
tion. The success that has attended Dr. Pratt's
former classes is a sufficient guarantee that no
exertion will be spared on her part to make the
lectures eminently instructive and practical.
We hope many will avail themselves of this op-
portunity.

 AN entertainment was given in the Social Hall
for the benefit of the 18th, Ward Sunday School
Wednes. Eve. It consisted of a laughable farce
entitled "My Wife's Bonnet," by some of the
Home Dramatic Club and the comic operatta
"A Capital Joke," arranged for four voices.
The operatta is something new and original suf-
ficiently interesting to excite the audience a
trifel and sort enough not to be tedious. The
parts were well rendered and both pieces evince,
some ability an the part of the young people.
	The selections were good. We commend
them for not undertaking anything heavier.
	Leaves From My Journal: This is the sugges-
tive title of the third book of the Faith Promot-
ing Series, which are being brought out at the
Juvenile Instructor Office. The work is by Pres.
Wilford Woodruff and is specially adapted to
young Elders, missionaries; and yet calculated
to inspire and strengthen the faith of all. The
Author begins with the "blue laws of Counetti-
cutt," his native state, from that goes on to see
ing Joseph Smith, visiting Kirtland &c., &c. It
s a most interesting book all the way through
and contains many powerful evidnces of the
healing of the sick: savors greatly of the Apostle
himself, rapidly taking you over the ground he
has trod and ever keeping up the same lively in-
terest.
	For Sale at the Juvenile Instructor Office.
Price 25 cts.
	It is earnestly requested that the secretaries
of the Y. L; M. I. A., of Salt Lake Stake, send
in their semiannual reports immediately, that the
Stake Secr'y. may prepare them for the Ladies
Conference to be held March 18th anl 19th. The
following information is required: no. of mem-
bers, no. of meetings held, manner of conducting
meeting. If a paper is issued. If a library is
owned by the association. Amount of home
reading and Financial reports.
				Mary A. Freeze, Pres.
				Augulta J. Crocheron, Sec'y.


