Indestructibility of Matter By Helen Minckley
YOU remember, of course, that a falling apple introduced the theory of gravity, and that a dancing tea-kettle lid was the father of the steam engine. I only mention this to show how very ordinary things bring about the discovery of the greatest scientific truths. Although no text book mentions her name, my Mother was, I am sure, one of the pioneers in the field of the Indestructibility of Matter.
Mother bought that blue serge suit way back in 1912. "It looks durable," she commented as she ran a practiced finger across the twill. "It looks as if it would hold up." For two years she wore the suit with diminishing pride. The box pleated peplum and the elaborately braided coat tail had lost their style after two springs and two falls. I was rather disappointed when she decided to make it over for my older sister. Of course I knew that someday I would have my turn at it, but I had hoped to get it in the first reincarnation.
Mary was in the sixth grade and felt very smart in a real suit with a frilled and tucked voile shirt waist. After two years the suit had not changed at all, but Mary had. Her hands dropped a surprising distance below the coat sleeves, and her legs were out at the bottom almost up to the knees. I began to look through the fashion sheets. Surely my winter wardrobe would be constructed of blue serge—but no! Mary was to go to High School now and she must not go without plenty of "changes". The advisability of a strip of velveteen on the bottom to cover up knobby knees was discussed but mother rejected it as being a too apparent revival. Instead she dropped the skirt to the bottom of the jacket, finished the sleeves with long fitted cuffs salvaged from the superfluous coat tail, and bought a patent leather belt. The belt was, I believe, the most beautiful thing that I have ever seen: It was at least four inches wide, bright green in color, and marvelously shiny. It and the swanky green tie would be salvation for any frock.
TWO years more I waited before I came into my inheritance. I had grown outward, not upward, and the waist of the blue dress would not stretch over my bulgy form. The cloth was still sound as new, and initiative soon found a way. The pleated peplum was taken from a moth proof chest. This was elongated with strips from skirt number one, and a yoke was made from the former waist. Mother called the result a Mary Pickford dress. She could have truthfully called it a Mother Hubbard but I wouldn't have worn it with that name. A shiny belt was denied me because it would make me look "like a pudding bag, tied in the middle," but a beautiful collar of eyelet embroidery satisfied my craving for the artistic.
When I entered High School Mother folded the serge regretfully and put it away. It was rather glistening now, but only the back panel was threadbare. A few weeks went by and I "made" the girl's baseball team. We were far too modest to run around in bloomers or shorts so we decided on blue skirts and white middies. My middy was new—my skirt was constructed from the everlasting serge, neatly washed, pressed, turned and repleated.
The last time I remember seeing the suit in actual use was in combination with some flannel that Mother had bought from a remnant counter and found inadequate to cover my younger sister. The red really looked very smart with its wide bands of good serge. A visit from my grandmother saved the pieces from the ragman, for Grandma was an expert on quilts and rugs. "My dear," she would say as we turned before her for admiration of a new dress, "how very pretty!" We always had the uncomfortable feeling that she did not see us inside the dress at all, but that her busy mind had already placed the material in quilt blocks or colorful patches in a hand made rug.
It fell to the lot of the blue serge to become a rug. Many a time as I rested in bed with a cold or headache I would trace the blue lines around the bedside rug and relive the days of glory when that strip was with me in the flesh. This spring Mother decided to replace the rugs with some of a less ancient vintage. I wondered if that would mean the passing of the blue serge. "We need a new mattress for the porch bed," Mother declared one day. "Daddy, you might as well take some old clothes and these rag rugs up to the mattress factory." Now the eternal life of the serge is assured. When mattresses grow lumpy they can be put through the grinder again, and thus last for ever. Mother was, I am sure, one of the pioneers in the field of the Indestructibility of Matter. She couldn't be bothered with such terms as indestructible. She merely said "durable." And she worked with blue serge instead of with equations.