The Utah Pioneers By Isabelle B. McKenzie
Far from their friends they had wandered, Weary and longing for rest, As they stood in a group on the hillside Their leader gazed to the west,
Where before them stretched a valley,— And a light came o'er his face,— With prophetic gesture pointing He said, "This is the place!
Through this valley now so barren A good sized river flows, We will plough and plant and cultivate 'Til it blossoms like a rose;
We must all be brave and cheerful As we turn the virgin sod,— Encourage arts of every kind, And give all praise to God."
So they came down into the valley, This brave, God-fearing band; Determined here to build their homes And for their rights to stand.
The stars and stripes were soon unfurled Upon a lofty hill, To signify through all their trials They loved their country still.
The leader planned a temple Of beauty, strength and grace, In vision saw its every line, Each stone in proper place;
And though to Heaven he was called E'er the dream was all fulfilled His mission here was finished He had done the work God willed.
Our Utah—the land once so barren A desert of sagebrush and sand, Is now the tourists' Mecca They come from every land;
They marvel at our sunsets Of brilliant pink and gold, While tales of pioneer success Throughout the world are told.
The spirit of those early Saints Lives still in latter days,— In helping sick and needy poor And many other ways;
In music, art and drama Fair Utah has no peer And through the land is tribute paid, To the Mormon pioneer.
Relief Society Exhibit of Handwork By Amy W. Evans
SINCE the days of Nauvoo needle work has had a place in the Relief Society. At first all the sewing done was for the needy. Later in the pioneer days of Utah when the homes and meeting houses depended largely upon the work of the woman for their furnishings much rag carpet was made at the Work Meeting as well as quilts and clothing. As times became more prosperous and the need for sewing to clothe the poor decreased, there developed an avenue for self expression through finer needle work, embroideries and laces. Quilt making reached a high degree of excellence. Then came flower making, painting and decorating of various sorts. Rug making has become a fine art among many of our societies. At the same time the useful arts of home making, such as home nursing, home hygiene, the study of foods and their relationship to health and growth and child studies of various kinds have been introduced on the work day. Our women have become masters at turning odds and ends and cast off clothing into useful and beautiful articles. In these difficult days unique ways of raising funds to help the needy have evolved. The canning and conserving of all kinds of foods has had its place on the work program. Yet during all this the original purpose has not been lost sight of and sewing and remodeling of clothing, the making of quilts for those in need has gone steadily on.
MANY stakes and wards have held bazaars and exhibits of their work which have proved to be very attractive and successful. At the request of the  . These displays have been so thoroughly enjoyed and appreciated by all who attended that finally it was decided to extend an invitation to all the stakes to participate in a great Church wide exhibition of the hand work and other activities accomplished through the Work and Business program. The time set for the opening was April 3, 1933.
ONE member of the committee in charge of the display says, "What could better demonstrate the efficiency of the Relief Society organization and the dependability of Relief Society workers than the following: A brief circular letter sent to 104 stake presidents carried the message that an exhibition of the hand craft and needle work resulting from the Work and Business program would be held and that each stake was invited to send not more than 10 articles to show for the event. The results of this invitation were amazing, practically every stake in the Church responded as well as several missions, and the wholesome attitude of every one concerned in the great endeavor showed high co-operative ability."
The building on Main Street so long occupied by the business firm of W. N. Williams, husband of Clarissa S. Williams, our beloved past president, was secured for the exhibit. The committee were very fearful that it was too large, but before the articles were all unpacked they began to wonder where space could be found to place all that was sent in.
QUILTS covered the entire wall and a double row was hung as compactly as possible for display, down the center of the building. The greatest admiration was expressed by all who saw them for the workmanship, coloring, designs. Many of the designs were original. They were indeed outstanding and deserved all the praise they received.
ANOTHER member of the committee speaks of the rugs as follows: "One of the most interesting sections of the exhibit was the rug department. Day after day as we were drawn back by its beauty and utility, we discovered new devices of thrift and ingenuity. The corner was so homey, so suggestive of comfort and warmth and easy chairs placed so invitingly near by, induced many men and women to enjoy the comfort afforded. There were braided rugs made from old cast off materials that would last almost a life time so skillfully had they been woven together by deft and willing hands. Hooked rugs made from new material, soft of texture and beautiful in design and execution, vied for first place with rugs made from discarded stockings and underwear.
"One rug of special interest had attached to it a history of the events leading up to its creation. The sheep had been raised on a small farm, the wool had been clipped from them by the woman who washed, carded, dyed, spun and finally wove it into a rug of rare beauty. A braided rug in course of construction showing a unique method of binding together with a strong cord as it was braided instead of the former way of sewing, was greatly appreciated by rug enthusiasts.
"Rugs made from the finest texture of wool, some made from silk unexcelled in workmanship and design, deserve a place in palaces of art. Every rug was a credit to the maker, every rug was a thing of beauty.
"If you remember the coziness at the hearth of your pioneer home and long for a touch of its soothing spirit again, adorn your modern home with the touch of comfort and warmth that can be brought only by the beauty of a home made rug."
WARMTH and color was added by the afghans and cushions of which there were a great number. Delicate touches of beauty were the dainty bedspreads and boudoir pillows. Many baskets and vases of flowers so cleverly made that they could all but deceive the bee added to the festive appearance of the scene.
THE table on which the baby clothes were spread was one of the most popular spots. The finest of hand embroidery and hand made lace adorned the dainty articles. The blankets and quilts of pale tints of blue and pink, the vase of apple blossoms for a center, all these accounted for its popularity.
LONG tables around the entire building were covered with fine net work, cut work, crochet and embroideries of all kinds.
USEFUL articles for kitchen, living room and bed room, such as curtains, utility bags, pads and holders, decorated cans and boxes for spices, etc., and aprons gave new ideas to many as to what they themselves might do. Old bricks tastefully decorated and with a band of felt on them made fine book ends, lamps and shades, clocks, candles and holders, decorated china vases, umbrella holders, sewing baskets, door stops, fire screens, foot stools and many other fine articles showed the ingenuity and skill of the makers. There were a few samples of fine modeling, as statuettes, book ends and portrait busts.
THE remodeled clothing was a prominent feature. One saw such things as a finely tailored suit for a young girl which her mother made for her from her father's wedding suit. The workmanship on the made-overs was excellent. Boys' trousers, coats and overcoats looked like new. A dainty party dress was made at the expense of only 10c. Even warm woolen gloves were made from old material. This display was very creditable and showed the resourcefulness of the Relief Society women in making use of clothing which otherwise would have been cast aside.
THE eyes of the children visitors beamed with delight at the sight of dolls, dogs, cats and other toys and the chairs and cradles made from small barrels which were covered with gay cretonne.
A TABLE which attracted a great deal of comment contained cans of fruits, meats and vegetables with a card telling how much this stake had done in food conservation. An enormous amount of this work is done at the work meetings. It contained also a cheese sent from a stake which made cheese making a feature, and a large bottle of noodles and the photograph of the women who had made and sold almost $300.00 worth to raise funds for Relief Society work.
SOAP making has come into vogue again and soaps of all kinds were on display—white scented soap, soap flakes and laundry soap. Recipes for making them were on the table and the demand for them greatly exceeded the supply.
A WORD must be said about the picture gallery. The black silhouettes with the delicate background predominated. There were oil paintings of various subjects all showing artistic ability.
ONE of the front display windows contained the actual foods and amount of water needed for a month's supply for one person, also a week's supply. The costs and relative food values were concretely illustrated. This represented the studies in foods in the Work and Business meetings of two stakes. It proved very educational in this field and many people could be seen taking notes for future reference. These same stakes demonstrated in the exhibit school lunches, milk testing, how to store vegetables and many useful facts about food. One had a balanced ration of toys for children of various ages. Character building clothing for children was displayed by another stake with large posters explaining. This was helpful and educational to mothers of young children.
THE first stake to establish a Relief Society baby clinic had a clever and charming exhibit of layettes and all sorts of baby clothes including shoes, which they had taught the women to make. The attendant in her white nurse's costume was kept busy explaining the work of the clinic and the patterns for the clothing.
THE extent of the Relief Society work was demonstrated by the display from the foreign missions. Articles from many parts of the world made up this part of the exhibit. The European mission was represented by hand woven linens and wool work from Scandinavia, laces and embroidery and needle point from England, France, Germany and the Netherlands, Czecho Slovakia with characteristic embroidery. There was a beautiful rug from Assyria made by the Relief Society women of that land. A large sacrament cloth decorated with drawn work and graceful flowers was made at the Work and Business meeting of the Armenian women. There were also many pieces of exquisite hand work from that country. The South Sea Islands and Hawaiian display with a setting of palms and ferns was realistic. Woven bridal gowns, dancing costumes and mats, with the beautiful quilts of Hawaii made it unusual and attractive. Graceful birds of many colored real feathers made on linen and cards came from Old Mexico. Baskets designed and woven by the Indian Relief Society women of Arizona, with beaded belts, purses and jackets made by the Washakee Indians from southern Idaho represented the Lamanite sisters.
A REGISTER was kept of visitors and at least 20,000 people saw the exhibit. Of these there were people from all the Intermountain and Pacific states. The middle west was well represented. There were visitors from Canada, Portland, Ore., San Francisco, Los Angeles on the west coast, from New York and Boston on the east and New Orleans on the south. One visitor was from London, England, another from the Fiji Islands and another from Oslo, Norway. All were favorably impressed with the work of the Latter-day Saint women. Its beauty, usefulness and educational value was recognized by these people as they expressed themselves. Words of praise came from all sides. Many women, not of our faith dropped in time and again. A prominent woman teacher in one of our colleges said, "A tremendous undertaking wonderfully done. The saving grace in a depression period is industry and achievement." A lady, 91 years of age, after looking about shook her head and said, "No, they are not all playing bridge." Another teacher said "This is the most cheering thing I have seen for sometime." The first presidency and many of the apostles attended. President Grant asked that the doors be kept open on the closing night in order that the men attending the Priesthood meeting might see the display.
He wrote the following letter to the General Board:
"April 10th, 1933.
"Presidents Louise Y. Robison, Amy B. Lyman, and Julia A. Child.
"My dear sisters:
"I was literally dumbfounded with the magnificent exhibit of the Relief Society, and I wish that I had attended it the first day of our conference so that I could have called special attention to it earlier.
"I suppose you occasionally send out circular letters to the different Relief Societies throughout the Church and when you do be sure to express my sincere gratitude for the labors they performed in sending such a splendid display of the handiwork of our good sisters in the Societies.
"Ever praying the Lord to bless you and all those associated with you in your labors, I am, as ever,
"Sincerely your friend and brother,
"HEBER J. GRANT."