Notes from the Field Big Horn Stake.
THE following word comes from Big Horn Stake: "In Big Horn Stake Union Meetings are held the last Sunday in each month, and Stake Board meetings every Thursday, at the home of the various board members. Instructions and suggestions are given by the presidency, visits to wards reported, programs for Union Meeting arranged, department problems discussed, singing practice where memorizing the words is emphasized. The sisters are encouraged to express the message of the song in their own words. Lessons for the following Tuesday Relief Society meeting are presented and leading points brought to mind. Forty-five minutes is then devoted to book reviews, new words defined, scriptural quotations and miscellaneous current events are given.
"We meet in Union Meeting as a group where general instructions and comments are made by our president, Hazel N. Boyack, and a talk 'How to Teach' by supervisor counselor, Annie J. Carlton; singing practice and separation for department work into seven groups. Counselor Ella Neilson has charge of the work and business group. They discuss problems and plans to make these meetings more profitable and interesting than any other. Demonstrations of the tie and dye work have been given in each of the wards, also waste paper baskets, vases and many beautiful and useful presents were made for Christmas; not forgetting dainty cookies and candy. Our project in beautifying home surroundings was planting more roses, shrubs and grasses. During the growing season 1,568 bouquets were carried to public meetings and from there taken to the sick and homebound.
The social service group devote five minutes to the discussion of health. Every Relief Society member in the stake is supplied with a Government pamphlet on prenatal care. Five demonstrations have been given and pre-school clinics held where possible, sponsored by the health supervisor, Zitelle Shumway.
"On March 17, our Annual Day was fittingly observed in each of the wards and branches.
"During the spring months, Relief Society conferences were held in each ward in connection with sacrament meeting. Splendid preparations were made on the part of the sisters, and a fine spirit prevailed.
"In May, conference was held in the Otto ward, where the sisters had planted a lawn in front of their church and 65 trees in the yard. They also sponsored cleaning up the cemetery, and when the task was completed gave the 'men folks' a fine repast.
"Our Annual Conference-Convention was held August 27 and 28. The day previous was Big Horn Stake Achievement Day, where many useful and beautiful articles were displayed. Some of the unusual things were home-made cheese, starch, soap, tiny toys and animals cut out of wood, porch furniture and upholstering. In conjunction with this was a program where most of the wards participated. At the close, members of the stake board gave a banquet in honor of the ward presidents, the General Board member and special guests. Mrs. Amelia Robertson, social service aid, was toast-mistress, and all enjoyed the social hour.
"During September, officers and teachers conventions were held in the various wards. Methods of preparing and presenting lessons were explained and all encouraged to make this a year of better preparation of officers, teachers and members.
"December 1, marked the 60th anniversary of our Stake President, Dr. E. W. Croft. The Relief Society sisters sang 'We Ever Pray for Thee,' after which a biography of the life of President Croft was presented by Joseph S. Fish. Mrs. Helen C. Marchant presented a basket of roses to President Croft in behalf of the auxiliary organizations over which he presides. President Croft responded with a beautiful tribute to his friends and coworkers in the stake."
Panguitch Stake.
"WE have held stake union meeting every month this year, at which Relief Society department work is conducted and supervised by efficient class leaders who are putting the work over in an excellent manner.
"On the 17th of March, the Relief Societies of the Panguitch North and South Wards celebrated conjointly, at 1:30 p. m. A very large crowd assembled at the Social Hall, where a fine program was rendered, after which a banquet was served to the large crowd present. In the evening members from the two wards presented the pageant 'Biblical Mothers,' in the Social Hall as part of the day's program. Relief Society members, all mothers, took part in the pageant, and it was one of the most beautiful sights ever witnessed here. Each mother made her own costume and they were beautiful indeed. Appropriate music was rendered during the entire evening."
"BIBLICAL MOTHERS," PANGUITCH STAKE
DRINK has drained more blood, Hung more crepe, Sold more homes, Plunged more people into bankruptcy, Armed more villains, Slain more children, Snapped more wedding rings, Defiled more innocence, Blinded more eyes, Dethroned more reason, Wrecked more manhood, Dishonored more womanhood, Broken more hearts, Blasted more lives, Driven more to suicide, And dug more graves Than any other poisoned scourge that ever swept its death-dealing waves across the world.