Shall I Send My Daughter to College? By Vesta P. Crawford
WITH the coming of each September, this question returns: "Shall I send my children to college?" Preparation for life involves many problems, and the girl's training is even today somewhat different from the curriculum outlined for her brother. For many years there has rather generally prevailed a vague idea that college education is a good thing. However, even this guide post is falling before the onslaught of much criticism of the results of college education and much complaining on the part of taxpayers. Already it seems to be a well established principle that college training is not for everyone. Because parents must direct their children in this most important decision, they should themselves gather all available information and weigh it carefully. They must measure their sons and daughters to see if they are of college caliber.
DEAN MAX McCONN of Lehigh University has suggested a series of helpful tests. He says that, in the first place, the prospective college entrant should have displayed in high school a decided tendency toward bookish aptitude. The I. Q. (intelligence quotient) should be above 120, which is much more than average, and the student should rank in the top one-third of his high school class. Other authorities maintain that an average grade of at least "B" is necessary for college entrance. Dr. McConn lists as the second requirement a real interest in acquiring knowledge. This interest may be measured by observing the student's attitude toward the world of nature, towards books, libraries, lectures, laboratories, and other facilities for acquiring information. The third stipulation is that the college entrant should have developed a capacity for self-direction in such essentials as getting up in the morning without being called, managing an allowance sensibly, choosing friends wisely, doing home work well, and displaying initiative.
If your daughter can successfully pass muster in these prerequisites, then you may reasonably proceed to further considerations. Can you afford to send the girl to college? It would be well to secure catalogues from several universities and see for yourself what the expenses are. Many girls complete a year of college work on $300.00 or less of actual cash outlay. Many spend twice or three times that much. At present the opportunities for earning part of the expenses are more limited than in times of greater prosperity. However, the expenses are not so high now either. Many parents, thinking of the difficulties which college students now have in securing positions, wonder if the training will be worth while economically.
Certainly we are passing through a crisis at the present time, but it appears that we are now climbing the hill back to better times. Now is the time to prepare for the opportunities of the future. To many high school graduates the doors to employment are temporarily closed and money for early marriages is hard to get. But the college doors are wide open, and there is no depression in materials to train and develop the mind.
Let us remember that college should be regarded as a preparation for the whole span of life. Not long ago I heard a father say that he wished his daughters to pass directly from his control to the control of their husbands without any intermediate period of financial or any other kind of independence. When asked if he did not wish his daughters to learn vocations, he replied that if their husbands couldn't support them and their children he could. That was rather a broad statement since no man nowadays can guarantee the continuance of his financial solvency, and even if that were possible, few parents are wealthy enough to assume the support of even one additional family. It is not wise, either, to overlook the fact that, for various reasons, large numbers of women must be self supporting. Thousands never marry; thousands more are widows; and frequently married women must aid in the support of the family. No father can, by his own will, see that his daughter marries well, nor can he prevent the tragedies of death and disease. However, parents can equip their daughters with tools to meet bravely the problems of life.
Not long ago a writer suggested that in many cases it would be wiser for parents to give their children money for "settling down" instead of sending them to college. Undoubtedly this would be helpful, but money is a temporary gift, quick to disappear and never to be recovered, while education is a tool that even time cannot take away. It is true that some of our colleges offer little work that is practical enough to train young women in the professions. But it is equally true that often students and their parents do not plan to take advantage of the work given in these lines. Fortunately our local institutions do present valuable courses that prepare for many vocations besides teaching.