SPLINTERS.
	Two of the pension agencies of this
country are managed by women...........Iowa
laws now make no distinction between hus-
band and wife in their control over their
own property.......An old man in Caldwell,
who was not strong minded himself, took
with him his better half, when he went to
vote, to see that he was not coaxed into
voting the Democratic ticket.......Milan is
cheered by the singing of Brignoli.......The
“Pall Mall Gazette” is reported to have paid
Hepworth Dixon one farthing on his suit
for libel......The Irish orator, Father Burke,
is sick......A school at Geneva, R. I., was
lately broken up by a lively bull-dog......An
old lady, nearly eighty years of age, recently
hanged herself in Kentucky. It was a pity,
having lived so long to leave such an exam-
ple on record......Lexington, Ky., claims
the largest conservatory in this country......
It is suggested that babies taken to theatres
should be checked at the door and hung up
like umbrellas; would poorly dressed ones
be liable to get exchanged for those of better
appearance, as umbrellas frequently do?......
Stanley has been given a brilliant banquet
at Washington......Senator Sumner is still
feeble, though now able to sit up......Jenny
Lind lately sang in the American chapel at
Florence......Ben Wade’s daughter-- if he
has one—is about to marry a carpenter......
The Kansas Legislature has four women
clerks......Emerson, with his daughter Ellen,
has left Rome for Egypt......A Methodist
minister in Massachusetts being absent on
Sunday, his wife performed the pulpit
services satisfactorily to the people and,
doubtless, to herself......More than 25,000
persons viewed the remains of Napoleon
lying in state, though none, it was stated,
but particular friends of the family and dis-
tinguished representatives......A hurricane
from the north, recently vistied Minnesota,
lasting more than two days, freezing nearly
one hundred persons to death, and block-
ading all the railroads and common roads
with huge banks of snow.......Boston is said
to claim in May or Pierce its first bachelor
chief magistrate.....Lord Edward Lytton
Bulwer, whose death occurred on the 18th
of January, was sixty-seven years old......
Perteet, a colored wife murderer of Chicago,
is sentenced to be hanged.....It was a girl
of the period who said, when going to be
married, she took a “spoony” who had no
mind of his own that she might always have
her own way; and it was the Bible he threw
at and struck her with the other evening,
because his supper wasn’t ready when he
came home.......A lady writer pronounces
fashion at a standstill, and says everything
seems to be a modification of last year’s
style. If fashion has really run the full
length of her chain she can do no better
perhaps, than to retrace her steps back as
she first trod them.......The fact of Mrs. N.
B, Gardiner being recognized as a voter in
the 9th Ward of Detroit, Michigan, is said
to have caused considerable excitement
thereabouts......In some of the Eastern
schools and seminaries, much just indigna-
tion has been aroused by the discovery that
opium venders are in the habit of sending
opium surreptitiously prepared iu candy and
lozenges into the schools.......Mrs. Bloomer,
who has been accused of having pledged
allegiance to the Woodhull, denies the charge
openly.......The first organized county dairy
market in the United States, was commenced
at Little Falls, New York......Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick are to be connected by
a canal....A letter carrier in Cleveland,
Ohio, received, on New Year’s day, $627:75.
......Mrs. Livermore says that five-sixths of
[new column]
the applications for divorce come from
couples who have not been married over
five or six years; if they tide over that
period they generally keep on to the end.
......George Francis Train has been a
prisoner in thirteen jails......A lady at
Council Bluffs who lighted her fire with
kerosene, leaves a husband and one child.
......There are seven woolen mills in Oregon
which used 4,191,000 pounds of wool last
year......Parson Brownlow has written the
inscription for bis tombstone......In 1848,
Rev. Miles Grant, the adventist, gave away
a fine property in Connecticut, thinking the
final day was at hand, and has lately been
preaching in the same place......Ffty years
ago, blue eyes for ladies were the rage in
America; then black and dark brown ones
were considered the most attractive, and
since, gray ones have taken the place for
beauty; but now it matters little what the
color of the eyes are so the hair is flaxen
and the face has its proper amount of paint
......Illinois is nearly free from debt.


