F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

			Harrisville, Weber Co.,
					January 5th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	We forward a brief report of our Society,
which is in a prosperous condition. We
have a good organization, and good attend-
ance at our meetings. On account of our
scattered condition we only meet once
a month during the winter season; but the
sisters of the Society are willing to do all
the good they can. At a meeting in Decem-
ber last, a vote was taken to omit the word
“Female” from the name of the Society,
which was unanimous. With our best
wishes for the success of your interesting
paper which we peruse with pleasure and
from which we gain a great amount of in-
struction, and with much respect, we remain
yours, etc.,
	MRS. E. SHIRTLIFF, President,
MRS. E. TAYLOR, Secretary.

	Wellsville, Cache Co.,
		January.	7th,	1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I forward a brief synopsis to you of the
[new column]
minutes of our last meeting, held on the 2d
inst, at which a vote was taken to omit the
word “Female” from the name of the
Society as suggested, which was unanimous.
Several brethren were present and gave us
good counsel; a good spirit prevailed. We
hold meeting regularly once a month, which
is pretty well attended. Our Society is
prosperous, all being desirous to assist in
doing good. Accept our best wishes for the
success of the “EXPONENT,” which we read
with great pleasure.
		MARIA PARKINSON, Secretary.

			     HYRUM, Cache Co.,
					January, 13, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At a meeting of the Relief Society held
on Thursday November 6th, 1872, a motion
to have the word “Female” dropped from
the name, according to Sister Eliza R.
Snow’s suggestion, was carried by a unani-
mous vote.
	CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President.

	          KAYSVILLE, Jan. 20th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At a meeting of the Female Relief Society,
held in this place on the 9th of December
last, a vote was taken to drop the word
“Female” from the name of our Society,
which was carried unanimously.
	The Society in this place numbers about
150, through whose labors much good has
been accomplished. The poor have been
looked after and their wants in a measure
supplied. Fifty dollars have been given to
the P. E. Fund, and one hundred dollars for
other laudable purposes. We have two
hundred and twenty-five dollars in the Kays-
ville Co-operative store, and at present,
over one hundred dollars in the Treasury.
We are now making an effort to build a
house for the use of the Society. The cellar
and foundation walls are already completed.
Most of the material for the building is on
hand and paid for, and we expect to see
the walls go up early in the spring.
	Your valuable paper is much esteemed by
those who patronize it here.
			MARY A. HYDE, President.
HELLEN E. HYDE, Secretary.

