CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
				—
			Genoa, Italy, Dec. 29, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Dear Lula:
	I attended the London Conference of the
Saints, with much satisfaction. ln company
with Mrs. Thompson, Miss Clara Little and
Elder Junius F. Wells, who kindly proffered
to escort us, I spent one day in making calls
among the Saints. I told brother Wells
that I wished to see the poorest Saints in
London. He said he would take us
to those in lowest circumstances of any
in the city and then to those who possessed
the most of this world’s goods; although, he
said, outside the city are some much more
destitute than those within onr reach.
	All whom we visited seemed cheerful
and happy. We found one family, in particu-
lar, destitute enough, in an upper room,
reached by a dark, narrow, winding stair-
way, who apparently had to “work their
lives out, to keep life in.” In a small room
that I could nearly reach across, the mother
and two daughters were busy at their “an-
nual” employment, with scissors, paste,
guilt trimmings, pastboard, wire, and rib-
bons, making boxes of all fanciful forms and
sizes, for a wealthy merchant who furnished
the materials, and paid them at  very low
figure for their work. We spent the even-
ing at brother Rowe’s where we were
genteelly entertained and had not only the
pleasure of the society of our Palestine
tourists, but of a goodly number of mission-
aries from Utah.
	At Rotterdam we put, up at the “Bath
Hotel,” a commodious building—evey thing
in excellent order, and scrupulously clean.
Cleanliness seems to be a characteristic
with hotels in Holland; and, admitting
industry to be promotive of neatness, it
must also be a national characteristic. No
sensible, candid person can visit this
country without according to the people
the credit of industry, and indomitable per-
severance. Most people think they do "well
to cultivate the ground after it is made, but
the Hollanders make much of the ground
they cultivate, and when made and culti-
vated, it requires constant labor and expense
to protect it from inundation. They must,
as a matter of course, be honest, they have
not time to be otherwise.
	The wise policy of the Dutch, brings
wealth: they import raw material of every
kind—manufacture it, and export it when
manufactured. For instance, they purchase
American lard, and then, after multiplying
its value, in their factories, sell it to Amer-
icans, in the form of candles. I noticed
women wearing ornaments of gold on their
heads which were very conspicuous—some
of the size of a silver dollar and, some much
larger—and was informed that those ladies
were wives of wealthy farmers, and that
they wore those ornaments to represent
their wealth.
	I could not pass over this very interesting,
small portion of the world, in silence; but in
writing to the “Deseret News,” my brother
has said so much about Holland, its inhabit-
ants, shipping, canals, etc, I shall not
attempt description. Suffice it to say, I
enjoyed my visit in that kingdom, immensly
—Rotterdam, the Hague Haarlem and
Amsterdam, from which we returned to
Rotterdam en route to Antwerp in Belgium
—thence to Brussels, celebrated for its
carpets and lace, which we saw and admired,
from which place we visited the battle-field
of Waterloo, and the next day left Belgium
en route for Paris, where, including one day’s
visit to Versailles, we spent five days very
pleasantly.
[new column]
	Rain in unusual quantities has been the
order of the day overhead, and under foot
from the time we landed in Liverpool until
now, with few exceptions. Large tracts of
cultivated land, with fencing nearly covered,
and in many instances, houses entirely sur-
rounded with water, sometimes on one side
of the railroad, at other times on both, have
presented ocean scenes rather than those of
“terra firma.” But with all the rains and
floods, we have experienced but little incon-
venience—the most was in coming from
Nice to this place—overflow of water had
made breaches in the track, and instead of
one day we were two days on the way,
distance one hundred and twenty-six miles.
We have met with no other detention.
Some of our party estimated the length of
all the tunnels in the above distance, to be
at least, twenty miles. Whoever projected
a railroad in this Alpine country is worthy of
a gold statue, for his courage and intrepidity.
It is astonishing to think of the amount of
labor and expense requisite for the accom-
plishment of this Herculean project. Most
of these tunnels are cut through solid rock,
and permanently arched, a protection against
mountain torrents flowing into the Mediter-
ranean, the shores of which, the railroad
follows from Marseilles to Genoa, except
when tunneled, or cut through the many
spurs of the Alps projecting into the sea.
	Compared with those of England, America
may boast the long stretch of her roads, but,
so far as work and means are concerned,
Americans should doff hats in presence of
this Herculean enterprize, of suthern
France and northern Italy.
	To-morrow morning we leave for Turin.
						Eliza R. Snow.


[Written for the Exponent.
			BACHELORS.
				——
	“Gentlemen” (?) say they can’t afford to
marry, for fear the extravagances of women
would work their financial ruin. All bosh!
The meanest kind of humbuggery! Watch
the man that makes this excuse, and you
will find him intensly selfish, wrapped up
in self, lavishing every cent he possesses on
self, hugging himself and caring for no one
in the world but himself. Follow the
history of his career, from youth to middle
age; see if he ever did one noble action.
The record of his life will be self. In youth
he will whine over the extravagance of the
girls, or their follies, or whatever the
fashionable outcry happens to be against
women. In middle age he makes it his
business to sneer at women, but begins to
think he had better marry, that he may
have somebody to nurse him in sickness,
who must bear with his ill humor and in-
consistencies. In old age—pity any one
who has the trouble of him! In his secret
soul he wishes he had married when young,
would give all he is worth if he had a wife
to torment. The envy and bitterness of his
poor old soul finally takes him out of this
state of existence, and eveybody who has
had to put up with his selfish whims is
thankful that he has gone. Such individuals
are looked upon with astonishment, by
happy husbands and fathers, who wonder
why they never marry and think the poor
old bachelor a great fool to live so long with-
out wife and children. Those who have
had anything to do with old bachelors, will
know this is no fanciful sketch.
				A Married Woman.


﻿Missouri has taken a step in advance,
by the introduction of a bill in its legislature
making seduction a crime. 	will the bill
become law? It should.


