THE SEX.
			      —
	MISS Hunt, of Emporia, Kansas, is the
clerk of the lower branch of the Legisla-
ture.
	THERE are six ordained women pastors
in the Universalist Church in the United
States.
	A YOUNG lady of Los Angeles, California,
owns 600 acres of land, and 4,000 head of
cattle, and is still unengaged.
	A NIECE of Daniel Webster is keeping
a Boston lodging house, and her husband
sells fish. She once married for money.
	THE Marchioness of Lorne has been
elected President of the British National
Union for improving the education of
Women.
	THE woman who never watched her
neighbors is said to be a cousin to the
woman who did not know how many dresses
her sister-in-law had.
	MISS Julia Griffin, a young sculptress of
Brooklyn, succeeds Miss Ream at the Indus-
trial Fair. She is at present modeling a
bust of General James Jourdan.
	A WOMAN lately died at Newburyport
who was one of the choir of girls who
greeted General Washington with a song, on
his entrance to Newburyport.
	MRS. Partington says that she did not
marry her second husband because she loved
the male sex, but just because he was the
size of her first husband, and could wear his
old clothes.
	MISS Elizabeth C. Frink, who was teacher
in the Quincy School for about thirty-one
years—from April 30th, 1838, to January
1st, 1869, died very suddenly a few days
ago at her residence, 218 Northampton street.
	IDA Wilson, “nee” Lewis, the GRACE
DARLING of America, still makes Newport
her home, and can often be seen in the
harbor managing her boat. Notwithstand-
ing her marriage she prefers to be callad Ida
Lewis.
	MISS Smiley is converting the Chicagoans
at least to the belief that a woman can
preach, and in such a sweet, womanly way
as to make men ashamed of their sins, and
fill some of the ministers with a pardonable
envy. Even the Presbyterian pulpits are
open to her, and without a ripple of dissent.
	A MONUMENT to the intrepid Hannah
Austin, who killed nine Indians and thus
effected her escape from savage captivity,
is to be erected at the scene of her exploits,
at the juncton of the Contoocook and Pemi-
gewassett rivers, in New Hampshire.
	A YOUNG lady writes to an exchange
giving a receipt for having fun. She says:
Invite half a dozen boys and girls to your
house when pa and ma are away; put a half-
dollar silver piece in a dish with molasses
an inch deep in it, and offer it to the boy
who gets it out with his mouth. The more
the boys try to get it the more fun there will
be.
	ONE day during the hard winter of 1803,
a Miss Arnold applied to General Milroy for
a permit to forage her cow, the milk of which
was the chief support of the family. “Are
you loyal?” asked the General. “Yes,” she
replied. He began to write the permit
—“To the United States or Confederate
States?” “To the Confederacy, of course,”
she replied. “Then I shall give you no
permit,” said the General: “This infamous
rebellion must be crushed.” “Well,” said
she, “if you can crush it by starving John
Arnold’s cow, go it.”


