A LESSON LEARNED IN SLEEP.

Last night when wild winds shook my window pane,
And my sad heart as wildly beat within,
My dear, dead love, whom I had called in vain,
My ’raptured eyes beheld, through tear-mists dim.

He laid my tired head upon his breast
And gazed with far-off eyes beyond my ken;
“And does my darling weep when she should rest,
And long for me,” he said, “to come again?”

He clasped my willing fingers in his own,
And pressed upon my brow a holy kiss;
Then whispered low. with soft, indulgent tone
“Thou know’st not, love, what is real bliss.

"In mercy I am come to thee to-night.
To ope thine eyes, and ease thy breaking heart;
That sorrow nevermore may dim thy sight—
I tell thee why ’twas best that we should part.

“Dids’t never dream that I might turn away,
And from the paths of honor widely roam?
That thou might’st rue our happy bridal day,
And dread the hour that brought thy husband home?

“Temptation’s chains are strong and doubly tried;
The wine-cup was my master from my birth;
The fearful curse was born with me!” he cried,
“Look at that picture of our might-be hearth.”

And far into deep rolling mists and haze
The shadowy fingers pointed as he spoke;
And, as the dim clouds rifted for my gaze,
A sad, sad sc ne upon my vision broke,

A wan-faced woman sat beside a bed
Whereon a wasted infant form was laid;
I heard an eager, feeble cry for bread,
And knew for food that wretched mother prayed.

The scanty fagots which comprized the hoard,
Seemed but to mock her cry for warmth and light;
The meager furniture and empty board,
With fearful meaning dawned upon my sight.

A noble form, revealed by fire-light pale,
Lay prone, in heavy slumber near the hearth;
A crushed decanter told the fearful tale
Of fallen manhood and degraded worth.

“Could that have been thy fate and mine?” I said,
And from the fearful sight turned with a groan—
I started, for my visitant had fled;
I sat beside my window all alone.

The drear winds moaning at my window pane
Had lulled my tired senses into sleep;
I know my woeful vision was a dream
But from that moment I have ceased to weep.
										Emma.


[For the EXPONENT.
				PRAYER.
				    ___
	The person who has never tested the
power and efficacy of prayer is poor, indeed!
Where misfortune and suffering crowd upon
the stricken soul, when no human eye can
see and no human hand assuage its heavy
grief, how great the consolation and the
renewal of courage derived from prayer!
How divine the privilege of kneeling low
in solitude and pouring our griefs into an
ear which is not turned coldly away, and of
asking assistance where we have the blessed
assurance that we shall surely receive!
	The wayward may scoff, the wise and
strong in their own conceit may sneer, those
who cheat themselves into a disbelief in
God’s ability to stretch out His merciful
hand over His children on particular occa-
sions, may smile at the humility and faith
which prompt the act; but let the most
scornful of them be placed in sudden and
deathly peril, where no human power can
aid them, and faith and prayer are immedi-
atly vindicated; for the sufferer almost
unconsciously calls imploringly on the name
of God, and looks to Him for the assistance
which he knows can nowhere else be ob-
tained.
	And many come from such trials with
softened and humbled hearts; but some,
attributing their deliverance to whatever
means was made God’s instrument, still
refuse to believe because the universe was
not shaken to its centre and Nature’s har-
mony broken. But let them know that
God works always “with” and "through”
the laws which Himself has laid down, and
not “against” them.
	If the chief ruler of a nation finds himself
beset with intrigue, danger and difficulty,
the cultivation of a meek and prayerful
spirit is his best safe, gaurd. His bearing
will not be haughty and confident like that
of him who believes his own wisdom suffi-
cient for every emergency; but he will wear
a mild and quiet air as of one who leans upon
a superior strength; his hands will grasp
the difficulty just in the right place, and his
words, though few, will be as golden bands
to bind all sundered parts together.
	And yet, where is the miracle? No man
can acceptably present himself before the
Eternal until his heart is cleansed of all dark
and crooked purposes, his haughty spirit
humbled, his whole desires centered upon
what he deems his purest duty. Thus he
prepares himself to receive the blessings of
keen foresight, sound judgment and the
support and confidence of all pure minded
compeers. That very frame of mind which
is necessary to produce true prayer, is in
many cases the answer to prayer—the start-
ing point from which we may accomplish
the good we desire. In His wisdom God so
ordained it that many prayers should thus
answer themselves.
	And many a time when we lament that
our prayers are not answered, only our
shortsightedness prevents us from knowing
that they are answered even more fully and
completely than we could have imagined,
and much more for our good. Or, if actually
refused, ’tis only as a tender parent refuses
the glittering keen edged-blade for which
an inexperienced child holds up its hand
To cultivate this prayerful resigned state of
mind is the very best preparation agains
adversity, for we can believe our seeming
misfortunes to be blessings in disguise, and
generally prove them such. And prayer is
an armor fitted to all wearers.
	The child which desires the approbation
and confidence of its friends, may, through
this simple means bring itself into a state of
mind and manner which is sure to please.
	The busy mother, whose duties follow
upon each other as unintermittingly as the
changing seasons, may envelop herself in
this garb and surround her dear ones with
this atmosphere, until she will find the
wearing cares of the day reduced to less
than half their former dimensions. The
calm, peaceful, yet ardent spirit flows out
from her soul, as light diverges from the
sun, and permeates every object within the
circle of its benign influence. Not only will
her strength be renewed and her fainting 
heart revived, but her holy guiding influence
will be more widespread and enduring
than it could otherwise be.
	The maiden just planting the first elastic
steps upon the field of life, which, though
wreathed with roses, is also pierced with
thorns, may cling to this friendly hand, and
enveloped with prayer as with shadowing
wings, walk unharmed a midst the num-
berless dangers which enviorn the path of
youth and innocence.
	The youth upon the threshold of life, may
interpose it as a shield between him and all
his foes, and bear it in his breast as a faith-
ful monitor to guide him away from all evil.
	Oh, ye scoffers! try it “with pure mind
and feeling” and find yourselves nearer the
gates of heaven than you ever were before.
BEAVER
								L. L. D.


