CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
			Brussels, Belgium,
				December 9th, 1872.
	Six weeks and two days have elapsed
since I left the “City of the Saints.” In that
time I have journeyed to New York—crossed
the Atlantic—spent two days in Liverpool—
thence to London—stopped nine days in that
mammoth, city of world wide interest, and
withal, so unsystematically planned, that
when asked how I liked London, I invariably
replied that, were I to shape it to my liking,
I should, in the first place take it to pieces
and straighten out its streets. It is impos-
sible to describe them—in curves, semicirles,
diagonals, and a few in straight lines, but
most of these are so abruptly intersected,
that when you turn your eyes to look in the
distance, the focus of sight is brought to a
sudden standstill. But with all these dis-
crepancies--its fogs and darkness, London is a
grand metropolis, where, after you have
seen very much, you realize that, compara-
tively, you have seen but little. So I felt
when leaving on the evening of November
30th, we—President Smith and party—
took cabs at our hotel, “Cook’s Boarding
House,” opposite the British Meseum,—
then the railroad train to Harwich where we
took steamer and crossed the German ocean
—arrived in Rotterdam in the afternoon of
December 1st—after dining on board and
having our effects very politely examined
by the Custom House officer in the service
of King William, while anchored in the
Maes.
	Rotterdam is a beautiful city—one of
many and large industries. It is alive with
business—full of canals, the smaller ones
used for individual purposes, instead of
teams and wagons, the larger ones for ex-
tensive commerce. In every part of the
city, ships are either anchored or afloat giv-
ing the whole town the appearance of a navy
yard. I was very much interested here by
the way of “sight seeing”—was shown the
house once the dwelling of the celebrated
Erasmus, also a bronze statue of him, in
standing position, on an elevated pedestal,
in a much frequented portion of the city.
	On the evening of the 3rd we went to the
Hague—visited the Queen’s palace, entitled
the “House of the Woods,” situated one and
a half miles from the town, in a beautiful
park—the drive to it is through ranges of
stately forest trees. We were shown through
the lovely dwellings, and invited to inscribe
our names in the Queen’s Register. Much
to our regret, her Majesty happened to be in
town at the time. From the Hague we went
to Amsterdam, stopping by the way at Haar-
lem—saw and heard the world renowned
organ in the “Old Church of Bavon,” con-
taining five thousand metal and two thou-
sand wooden pipes. I much admired its
tones, especially when it most magnificently
imitated a thunder-storm. In its tower, I
penciled my name on an elevation of one
hundred and fifty steps; where I obtained a
fine view of the town and its surroundings.
In Amsterdam we quartered at the “Old
Bible Hotel,'‘ where a large Bible is sta-
tioned in an open position directly above the
public entrance. This city, though much
larger, exhibits, in some respects, the same
characteristics as those of Rotterdam and the
Hague, only more so, that is, so far as ship-
ping is concerned. Ships are made here.
In company with President G. A. Smith and
party I went all through a monstrously large
establishment of this kind in the “Dutch
Marine” or Navy Yard of Amsterdam;
where a new iron monitor was just launched,
and where we saw the ponderous machinery
at work with which the muanufacture is
[next column]
accomplished. It was surprising to see
sheets of solid iron, several inches in thick-
ness, cut like cheese. We visited the
King’s Palace which has a ball-room said to
be the best in Europe—it is one hundred
feet high, one hundred and twenty long and
sixty in breadth. The cemetery is very neat
—instead of raised or erect stones, the
graves are covered with beautifully polished
granite slabs laid prostrate—some of them
very expensively and elaborately orna-
mented.
	From Amsterdam we went to Antwerp,
where we submitted our trunks and valises
to the respectful examination of King
Leopold’s officers of customs: Visited the
great Cathedral of Antwerp—examined
some of Rubens’ celebrated paintings—one
in particular which is considered his master-
piece, entitled “The Descent from The
Cross.” We also visited the “Church of
St. Jaques,” which contains the tomb of
Rubens, over which is a painting by himself,
into which he has introduced a representa-
tion of himself, his two wives, his father and
his son. From Antwerp we came to Brus-
sels, where we arrived on the 7th. To-
morrow we anticipate an omnibus ride to
the field of the “battle of Waterloo,” and
the next day we go to Paris.
	With the exception of a little sea sickness
and a cold, taken on emerging from my
steam-boat recess across the ocean, my
health has been excellent, and, thus far, I
have enjoyed the tour much beyond my
expectations. Whatever I enjoy as a tourist,
and whatever good I may accomplish, is
attributable to the financiering and philan-
throphy of my beloved sisters, the noble
ladies of Utah. This, wherever I am, is
present with me. I wish to be remembered
to them all in love, with a double portion to
those dear young ladies who are honoring
that most important position, “Young Ladies’
Retrenchment Organization.” They are
often in my thoughts, with my heart’s earnest
response—God bless them! Clara Little is
a good, companionable girl and I am very
much at home with our party.
						Eliza R. Snow.


