WOMAN'S VOICE. 
			      ——
			OGDEN CITY, Jan. 13, 1873.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—
   I am not accustomed to write to Editors,
but as we now have one of our own sex,
I desire to communicate to her with free-,
dom. It was for the Gospel that I came to
these valleys in 1848. I know it is the work
of the Lord, the plan of salvation unto all
those who will hearken unto and obey its
precepts. I am a firm believer in all its
principles, as revealed to us through Joseph
Smith; and that if any man thinks to put
down “Mormonism" or plural marriage, it is
between him and the Lord; for the Lord has
commanded; we but obey. I am a free
woman in “polygamy;” and never had
more liberty anywhere in the world
than I have now. The Lord has set up His
Kingdom for the last time, and all the
powers of evil cannot put it down. I think
much of the “EXPONENT” and anxiously
await its coming; it is highly prized by the
brethren of this place, as well as the sisters.
Our Society is prospering well under the
care of our beloved President, Sister Jane
Richards, who, I think, is an example among
women and a pattern for us all.
							   M. H. B.
DEAR EXPONENT:
    While reading your columns, I thought I
would add a few words in my own, simple
way, if acceptable. In the first place, I am
glad that we have such a paper, and think
that it, and also the “Juvenile Instructor”
should be taken and read in every family
in the Territory, for the benefit of young
and old.
    I feel in my heart to glorify the name of
God for His goodness in sending His servants
who brought the glad tidings of the Gospel
to the land of my nativity. When I was
young, beside my mother’s knee, she taught
me good things which I did not forget as I
grew to womanhood. She used to tell me
that unless I should be born of water and
of the Spirit I could not enter into the King-
dom of God. And I would ponder in my
mind, and wonder how it could be, and ask
God in my ignorance to enlighten my un-
derstanding that I might know what to do
to be saved in His Kingdom. He heard and
answered my prayers in His own due time
and way, directing my steps to the place
where His servants first brought the Gospel
into our country. The first time I heard
them, Br. Erastus Snow said that all who
believed in Jesus Christ, and repented of
their sins, forsaking the same, and went
down into the waters and were baptized for
the remission of sins, and had hands laid
upon them by those having authority from
God, for the reception of the Holy Spirit,
should be saved. Then the vail which had
clouded my understanding was rent, and
I could clearly comprehend what the teach-
ings of my mother had reference to, and
what was the first step to be taken that I
might obtain salvation in the Kingdom
of God. I soon got permission of my hus-
band, and was baptized two weeks after I
first heard the Gospel.
    Mothers should always teach their children
such principles as will be for their benefit
both here and here-after. And that the
mothers in Zion may have wisdom to do this
is the prayer of yours truly,	
				A. C. HEDVIG HANSEN.
