SUFFRAGE IN THE TERRITORIES.
	By the acts of Congress creating the several
Territorial governments, which are in reality
the Constitutions provided for those Terri-
tories, the several legislatures can exercise
their law-making powers “upon all rightful
subjects of legislation.” This clearly gives
them the authority to regulate the question of
suffrage within their respective limits, and to
prescribe the qualifications of voters. They
have the right to say that it is not necessary
for an American citizen to be a male to possess
the requisite quaifications, and that a woman
has an equal right with a man to cast a ballot
for any elective officer. And it is a question
with the best jurists of the country whether
Congress has the power to take away any of
those Territorial Constitutions, by repealing
the acts, after having once granted them, unless
to admit the Territory as a Sovereign State.
Certainly Congress cannot, by any legitimate,
exercise of its power, prohibit the exercise of
the authority conferred in an Organic act upon,
a Territorial legislature, without repealing that
Organic act.	
	Two Territories have granted the right of
suffrage to women—Wyoming and Utah. The
legislature of the latter Territory at its last
session, passed a bill repealing the woman
suffrage act, but Governor Campbell vetoed it,
and women continue to enjoy the right of suf-
frage there. No proposition has yet been made
in the Utah legislature to repeal the woman
suffrage act of this Territory, but a proposition
has been made several times, by the anti-Mor-
mon press and speakers, to ask Congress to pass
an act prohibiting woman suffrage in Utah;
and this, simply because the “Mormon’ 
women have voted as their intelligence, pro-
clivities, or desires dictated. This is a novel
illustratipn of the “liberalism” so loudly,
vaunted by anti-Mormon speakers; that be-
cause a majority of the ladies of this Territory,
wlio are American citizens, will not vote as
[new column]
they desire, therefore those ladies should be
deprived of the right to vote! On the same
theory, the Republicans in States where they
are in a minority, should call upon Congress to
pass an act disfranchising Democrats and all
others that refused to vote the Republican
ticket; and Democrats in such States as Maine,
Vermont, Massachusetts and Iowa should de-
mand that their more numerous opponents of
the Republican faith should be deprived of the
right of suffrage for refusing to vote for the
Democratic candidates.
	The statement that the women of Utah—and
particularly the "Mormon"—women—are co-
erced, terrorized or in any manner compelled to
vote contrary to their inclination or conviction,
is a gross calumny; and as a woman speaking
for the women of the Territory, we so denounce
it. Possibly there may be here and there a
poor, spiritless creature, like the Michigan hus-
band whose wife said when a candidate came
around to canvas his vote; "No, sir! I wouldn't
let my husband vote for you on any consider-
ation! You clear out of here, and if he votes
for anybody wiihout my permission, let him
look out; that's all!" We say possibly there
may be found in Utah, as in every community,
one or two such creatures; but the ladies of
Utah, as a class, exercise the suffrage on their
own honest convictions, vote for the candidates
whom they favor, and do so intelligently, with
as sound reasons for their action, and with as
high an appreciation of the ballot, as can be
shown by the male voters of any part of this
Republic.


