HOME AFFAIRS.
				     —
   ANOTHER INTERESTING letter from Miss
Eliza R. Snow will be found in this number of
the EXPONENT.
	ATTENTION is directed to the list of club-
rates on the last page of the present number of
the EXPONENT.
	SHOULD SUBSCRIBERS, especially in the
southern portions of the Territory, not receive
the present number by mail in proper time,
they will please remember that the irregularity
of mail service, owing to the horse distemper,
is the reason.


SUNDAY SCHOOL entertainments, of a very
interesting character, have been given in several
of the wards of this city, so far this winter, and
others are in preparation; the proceeds arising
from a small admission fee, being used for the
benefit of the schools. Singing, recitations,
dialogues, music and select reading are the
principal features of these exhibitions; which
seem to be generally agreed upon as being
superior to dancing, even among the littte folks.
	MONDAY, THE 27th ult., in spite of the “epi-
zootic,” being present, disabling many of the
fine horses, when the snowing and blowing of
the morning was over, witnessed for the first
time this winter, a neat little sleigh—perhaps
more than one of them, but one at least—speed-
ing swiftly along the streets of Salt Lake City
with a load of happy, smiling ladies. There has
been little sleighing in this city for sevreal
winters past.
	AN ARTICLE in the present issue of the E	XPO-
NENT, with the title “Exercise for Girls,” is
commended to the careful consideration of all.
Its author has already favored the columns of
the EXPONENT with a number of choice com-
munications, which elucidate principles of
importance and should secure the attention of
women everywhere, for their value becomes
more apparent the more reflection is bestowed
upon them. We are always pleased to receive
a letter in the now well-known handwriting,
satisfied that a perusal of its contents will well
repay the time so occupied.
	THERE ARE all the indications that another
crusade against the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints is about to be commenced,
having its origin in this city. Those who en-
gage in it will fail in accomplishing their
object, as they have done before; but it is none
the less incumbent upon all who desire peace
and the power of truth to be with them, to be
diligent in doing good, and seek earnestly for
that light and intelligence and that strength
which will enable them to overcome evil. In-
deed this is one great means by which those
who desire to bring destruction upon the people
will be frustrated in their purposes..


﻿A GENTLEMAN who had left his wife alone
in the theatre while he went out to get
a whiff of fresh air “apologized” on his re-
turn.   “Dear me” said she “I thought you
went to give me a chance to flirt with that
man with the lovely black mustache.”  She
has had no cause to complain of any want of
attention from her husband since.
	FROM home we are to procure the happi-
ness of a whole life, while from the world
only a few moments of pleasure; it is,
therefore, becoming, and in keeping with
good sense, to be as polite and amiable at
home as in other society.
	SOME one has said that a young mother is
the most beautiful thing in nature. Why
qualify it? Why young? are not all
mothers beautiful? The sentimental outside
beholder may prefer youth in the pretty
picture, but I am inclined to think that sons
and daughters, who are most intimately
concerned in this matter, love and admire
their mothers most when they are old. How
suggestive of something holy and venerable
it is when a person talks of his “dear
mother.” Away with your mincing “ma-
mas,” suggestive only of a fine lady, who
deputes her duty to nurse, a drawing-room
maternal parent, who is afraid to handle
her offspring for fear of spoiling her new
gown. Give me the homely mother, the
arms of whose love all-embracing, who is
always beautiful, whether old or young,
whether arayed in satin, or modestly habited
in bombazine.


