BEGINNINGS.
				—
Dear Exponent:—
	In addressing you to-day, I wish to illus-
trate as clearly as possible, my own position
in connection with the heading I have chosen
for this little article. It is well known that
whatever be the object of our study, the
nature of the mind is such that progress in
the acquisition of knowledge is ever gradual;
and that there must be a beginning. Ele-
mentary subjects and explanations are first
wanted in the pursuit of knowledge of any
kind; for we first take a general view of the
subject to be studied, without entering into
the details and minutiæ of its extent and
formation. We must first comprehend what
a subject is before we can learn to analyze
it; and then in any of the laws and sciences
of human or divine nature, where analysis
is thoroughly understood, a knowledge of
synthesis may be readily attained. It is
but a short time since I first began to
“think.” This may seem a curious state-
ment, but it is true; I have always talked
considerably, but there has been no genuine
“thought” in all I have said. To really
“think,” as I now understand the term, re-
quires exertion, is indeed, a task of which
the young, in many instances, have no realiz-
ing sense. I never read a good article in my
life without feeling at the time, that to have
achieved the author’s success, not thinking
of his or her labor, would be delightful. I
never saw a beautiful picture, or other work


of art, in which the powers of genius and im-
agination were enshrined, without being
inspired with an inclination to imitate the
artist’s skill. And I never listened to the
harmonious sounds of music, either vocal or
instrumental, without being impressed with
a desire to try, and a feeling that I might
myself make like melody. But I have lost
time in that I did not begin at an earlier
ago to improve in these things. As I before
stated, I did not “think” until lately. Now
I know that it is never too late to undertake
the study of any art which one may be in-
clined to learn. What if we have let time
and chances slip by us, does not time still
exist holding out to us brilliant opportunities
for acquiring wisdom? This I know: with
many people much is lost and nothing gained
by brooding in vain regrets over “what
might have been had I known then what I
know now!” If we have learned by experi-
ence that some courses are unwise, we may
begin at once to do better; and if opportuni-
ties for self improvement have fled without 
being employed, we can, if we will, create
others, if not as good, at least the best we
can; and live in the present and for the 
future, never allowing ourselves to become
weary and sorrowful over sad reflections of
the past. It is want of thought that keeps
us from gaining many grand achievements
which might otherwise bring most happy
results. When we begin to “think” there
is little danger of our stopping there. We
may fancy some things which are of little
moment and never amount to anything; but
if we really and rationally begin to “think,”
it will not be long ere we commence to
make some sort of beginnings which will
amount to something more than merely to
have it said, we have lived and died.
	Allow me to say that I think the “Ex-
ponent,” at its beginning made a very fair
“debut,” that it has improved extraordin-
arily since its first appearance, and has 
gained my heartfelt interest, and hopes for 
it a long, bright and useful career.
					Country Woman.


[For the Exponent]
		HOME MISSIONARIES.
				——
	Not long since, being in company with	 
several ladies and gentlemen, where the
subject of home missionaries was introduced,
I was led to admire and rfleect somewhat
upon a remark which was made by an 
elderly lady—“a mother in Israel.” She
said, “I have been a home missionary for
nearly forty years, and I think every mother
in Israel is a home missionary who properly
fills her calling.” I considered the sentence
a just one, and worthy of being recorded;
more especially when we contemplate the
saying of the Lord, Book of Doctrine and
Covenants, page 191, section 43, latter part 
of paragraph 4, and fore part of paragraph
5:	“And if it so be that you labor
all your days in crying repentence unto 
this people, and bring save it be one soul
unto me, how great shall be your joy with
him in the Kingdom of my Father! And
now, if your joy will be great with one soul 
that you have brought unto me, into the
King dom of my Father, how great will be
yourjoy if you shall bring many souls unto
me!” Now, if the joy of an Elder will be so
great over those who have through his in-
fluence been brought into the Kingdom of	
our Father, shall not a mother’s joy far 
exceed, when she enters into the Kingdom
of our Father at the head of her posterity,
whom she has brought forth, and led by
precept and example along with her! More
anon
								E. M.


