FACTS AND FIGURES.
			—
	THE new directory of Des Moines indicates
a population of 15,000.
	THE Omaha, Neb. “Dispatch" is dead. It
run the race with dispatch.
	A SOLDIER'S monument is to be erected at
Dubuque, and the war graves then fenced.
	THE HUDSON river ice crop is estimated at
a million and a half tons, and was all to be
gathered by the 1st of February.
	McPherson, the county seat of McPher-
son, contains six houses and a newspaper—
the “Messenger.”
	A LIVE dog arrived in Lansing in a
United States mail bag on the 24th ult., as a
Christmas present for the postmaster.
	FOR the Centennial of American Indepen-
dence, Philadelphia will erect a building
that will cover fifty acres of ground.
	THE greatest mass of solid iron in the world
is the great Iron Mountain in Missouri. It
is three hundred and fifty feet high, and
two miles in circuit.
	THE statistical tables of England show that
less than one-third of the marriageable
women of that country were living in mar-
riage at the time of the last census.
	THE New York “Herald” says, the crime
of outraging female chastity in the South
appears to be especially the province of the
liberated negro.
	CORNELIUS Miles of Appanoose county,
took up his ashes, set them against the
house, and with his family went a visiting.
When he returned his home was gone.
	SERVANT girls are scarce in Topeka, Kan-
sas, and will continue to be so, says the
“Commonwealth,” as long as wives main-
tain prejudice against good-looking help.
	CEDAR Rapids gets the State Presbyterian
college for $100,000. Two men give be-
sides $25,000 each for endowment. It will
open next September.
	THE greatest cave in the world is the
Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky, where one
can make a voyage on the waters of a
subterrannean river, and catch fish without
eyes.
	THE Rev. John Tecumseh Jones, an in-
dustrious, economical Indian, of the Ottawa
tribe, died lately, and left his whole estate,
$60,000, to the Baptists in the State of Kan-
sas, for the education of ministers.
	AT a Georgia revival meeting, they search
all applicants for admission to the “mour-
ner’s bench,” and the proceeds, in the shape
of bowie knives and revolvers, are raffled off
at the close of the services, for the benefit of
the missionary fund. 
	A WICHITA man was found carrying
concealed about his person two navy revol-
vers, three pocket pistols, two billies, some
brass knuckles, an air gun and a sword cane.
He said he was going on the plains to fight
Indians, but the Cadi sent him to fight the
vivacious flea and enterprising bed bug in
the calaboose.
	Brain work costs more food than hand
work. According to careful estimates and
analyses of excretions, three hours of hard
study wear out the body more than a whole
day of severe physical labor. Another evi-
dence of brain work is obtained from the
fact that though the brain is only one for-
tieth the weight of the body it receives
about one-fifth of all the blood sent by the
heart into the system.


﻿If the whole world should agree to speak
nothing but the truth, what an abridgement
it would make of speech.


