EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	Since my last account of our Society’s
doings, we have passed its third Anniver-
sary; on which occasion the report showed
the amount received since January 1st, 1872,
$636:24, and the amount disbursed,$599:15.
Our Treasurer, Sister R. Canfield, finding
her duties too laborious in the Institution,
desired to be released, and tendered her
resignation; whereupon Sister H. M. Ballan-
tyne was elected to that office. Sister Josie
Richards was also chosen assistant Secretary.
	On the 19th of December the Society held
its first meeting in the New City Hall. It
was a time of unusual interest to all who
were present. Elders Richards, Herrick,
Farr, Penrose and Ballantyne met with us
and each addressed the meeting, giving
much excellent instruction and encourage-
ment, a report of which you have, no doubt,
read in the columns of the “Junction.” On
the evening of the same day the Society had


a party which, as far as I have heard, all
agree was one of the best in Ogden this
winter. Our meetings are held regularly
on each alternate Thursday afternoon, in
the New City Hall. President Richards,
Bishop Herrick and the brethren generally
seem to take pleasure in advising and assist-
ing us to get along so as to make our labors
pleasant to us as well as beneficial to our-
selves and others. We think there is a
gradually increasing interest in the affairs,
of the Society in this place, and we hope to
continue to have that feeling and influence
until all the worthy of our sex are happily
engaged with us.
				Amelia M. Frodsham.

	From a report of a meeting held by the
Society of the 1st Ward of this city, on
November 7th, last, which is now too old to
be published at length, we learn that a vote
was taken by those present to drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Society.
Mrs. M. Chase is president, and Mrs. Eliza-
beth Thayne secretary. The Society is in a
healthy condition.	

	Sister Hannah Carter, Secretary of the
Relief Society of Springville, forwards a
cheering report of that Society, which has
also taken the necessary vote to dispense
with the word “Female” in connection with
the name.


