HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	
	A Poor, patient man, of my personal
acquaintance, is a bachelor, wandering from
place to place, without one gentle, loving
word of sympathy ever being uttered for
him by cherished lips; without a hand to
clasp as dearer than any other in the world
to him, or a trusting heart to beat in unison
with his own. I am also acquainted with a
lady who is moving rapidly on towards
thirty; pale and rather pensive, who stands
behind a counter instead of taking charge of
a household, as she should do at her present
age, leaving the shop for some one younger
or older to mind. And all this because she
did not understand cooking. She would not
learn to cook, and the gentleman, now a
bachelor, would not "pop the question." To
this some of our "strong minded women,"
would say, "Serves him right, silly 'brute'—
let him learn to do his own cooking!" But I
believe in "woman's rights." And did not 
our dear, old great-grandmother, Eve, set
us a worthy example in looking after what
she and Adam were to eat? And did not
Adam partake of what she had prepared for
him, without interfering with her domestic
arrangements? thus proving that a woman
naturally understands better what is good
for herself and her household than a man
does. Gentlemen wish, when they marry,
to get wives who know enough to manage
the affairs of the kitchen without their over-
sight and opinion about everything. Only
intermeddlers think they know enough for
themselves and the rest of the family too,
and so trusting, marry indolent, ignorant
girls, who are only fit for parlor ornaments,
and never know or care to know whether
the food they eat is calculated to promote or
injure health. Now, if you want to marry a
gentleman, young lady, be wise and make
yourself worthy of being a gentleman's wife
—learn to cook.

						Aunt Trudie.
	Making Bread.—Milk is always prefer-
able to water for mixing. Accurately
measure or weigh everything used in mak-
ing bread. Experience has shown that
baking pans should be about seven inches
long, four inches deep, and four inches wide
on the bottom, flaring and fitted with covers.
This fact is worthy of attention. Every
cook should consult the taste in the use of
salt. A quart of sifted flour, loosely put in,
will weigh a pound.
	When Storing away dried fruit, put in
small twigs and leaves of the China tree.
A large quantity is not required, and the
leaves, etc., can easily be taken out when
the fruit is to be used. This is said to be a
certain preventative against worms in all
kinds of dried fruit. 
	A Cement said to stop cracks in glass
vessels to resist moisture and heat:    Disolve
caseine in cold saturated solution of borax
and with this solution paste strips of hog's 
or bullock's bladder (softened in water) on
the glass and dry at a gentle heat; if the 
vessel is to be heated, coat the bladder on
the outside before it has become quite dry, 
with a paste of a rather concentrated solu-
tion of silicate of soda and quick lime or 
plaster of Paris. 
	Plain Apple Pie.- For the crust boil
white, mealy potatoes, mash smooth with
milk as for the table, and let it cool. Knead 
in graham or unbolted flour to mix well, and
roll out.    Put in a good quantity of apples
prepared as for sauce.    Put, in place of an
upper crust, bars of crust across. 
	Cooking Raisins.-It is well to cook
raisins before putting them into pies, cakes
or puddings. Soaking them is not sufficient.
Steaming them, by pouring a small quantity
of boiling water amongst them in a tightly 
closed dish, and allowing them plenty of 
time to cook before opening, is a good plan.
When rasins are rightly cooked before using
they are plumper and more palatable, and
can be eaten without injury by most dyspep-
tics.


﻿[For theExponent.
		EXERCISE FOR GIRLS. 
			     ——
	Since the body is not only the “temple of
the soul,” but also its servant and friend,
the means by which it is able to make im-
pressions on tangible things, it has claims to
care and culture, education and development,
only secondary, to those of the soul itself.
If it be true that a cramped body can only
give imperfect impressions to the desires
and capabilities of the soul, how manifestly
important that no pains should be spared to
unfold every latent power, and train to the
utmost extent of useful action, every bone,
muscle, organ and nerve which the body
contains!
	This article is written especially in the in-
terest of girls, for custom has long demanded
for boys vigorous and healthy exercise,
which is the legitimate means of giving
harmonious vigor to the body. But custom
has also forbidden for girls such exercise,
because forsooth, it is ungenteel to wrestle,
run and row; and scarcely dare the slaves of
sex and fashion indulge in equestrian exer-
cise; certainly not without various trappings
and restrictions which fetter free movement.
It is time that more common-sense views
were entertained on this subject, expecially
by the people of Utah, whose aim is the
renewal of the primeval strength and
longevity of the human race. There can be
no valid reason why we may not break
through the trammels of foolish and ground-
less customs, such, for instance, as the deep
prejudice against whistling. If it is proper
for a boy to whistle, why be shocked so 
deeply when under similar circumstances a
girl indulges in the harmless pastime! Not
that to be debarred from whistling would be
a great privation, but little things exemplify
[new column]
great ones; as the Bostonians argued respect-
ing three cents a pound on tea.
	It is not enough that one sex be trained to
bodily strength and symmetry; that is doing
the work by halves. Let the girls also have
due attention on this point. And do not 
let all their exerciese be drudgery, either.
Washing, sweeping and churning are all
very well in their place; but if "all work and
no play make Jack a dull boy," I contend
that it will also make Jill a dull girl. She
should learn to skate, to swim, to play ball,
and—yes, to shoot! Self protection demands
this last in these wild, western countries,
and to my mind it would be far more pleas-
ing to see our girl going out on shooting ex-
cursions with her brothers and sturdily
bearing home at night the game she has
captured, than laced up in corsets, with 
smelling bottle at nose, giving little plain-
tive screams if she should spy a mouse, or a 
frog, or any of God's harmless creatures
which should awaken admiration for His
boundless wisdom, instead of fear or even
disgust. It is high time that such nervous
timidity, not to say such affectation, should 
pass into disfavor. And the very best way
to accomplish this desirable end, would be 
to give the girl such confidence in her phy-
sical prowess that she would feel herself
equal to any small contingencies.
	It would be a pleasant sight to see com-
modious play-grounds attached to every
schoolroom in the land; where both boys 
and girls should be encouraged tp engage on
active games suitable to their age and 
strength. And more; well ordered and well
conducted calistheniums should be estab-
lished where girls might hoard strength of
nerve and spine, which shall enable them to
defy the ailments which to-day afflict
their mothers and almost make their lives a
burden. Like all good things, exercise
must be used with due moderation; but so
long as it does not pass that boundary, it is 
the great tonic which will give lithe limbs,
bright eyes, and straight spines to the next
generation. No better physicians can be
found than pure air, regular habtis, cheer-
fulness and —judicious exercise. Give these
to the girls as well as the boys, and see how
soon feeble, incapable, wornlooking mothers
will be replaced by rosy, smiling matrons,
whose well-ordered households and beauti-
ful, sweet-tempered children, bear witness 
to their great capabilities.
							L.L.D.


