EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE WOMAN papers are divided in their
allegiance to the dominant party of the
country.
	THE DEATHS of nine eminent editors were
chronicled last year; seven in the United
States and two in France.
	ANOTHER EMINENT man gone! Lord
Bulwer Lytton, poet, novelist and dramatist,
reposes in Westminster Abbey.
	HUNGARY SHOWS its respect to the name
of the Emperor Francis Joseph, by im-
prisoning James L. Watson, an American,
traveler, for speaking derogatory of him.
	AN ALAMEDA California, mother, it is
said, has named her infant Laura D. Fair.
Tastes differ. Would she like the little
one to earn as much unenviable notoriety as
the one it is named after?
	WHAT IS the price of a seat in the United
States Senate? and, do honorable Senators
expect to steal enough during their terms to
repay the outlay and interest upon it? are
questions pertinent to the hour.
	THERE IS one officer in the United States,
who has served in the same calling thirty-
two years, and has not been found guilty of
defalcation or forgery; it is Charles S. Clark,
veteran fireman of Boston, now aged sixty-
three years.
	NAPOLEON IS said to have died of a large
clot of blood in one of the blood vessels near
the heart, and the learned call it "embo-
lism.” It was sufficient to kill him, even if
the heavy word is derived direct from the
Greek “embolus.”
	MILAN IS subscribing money for the erec-
tion of a monument to the memory of the
Emperor Napoleon III. Italy gratefully
remembers the efforts of the late French
Emperor to solidify the country, if not to
secure Italian unity.	
	THE STATE Temperance Convention of
Connecticut adopted a straight temperance
platform, with a full ticket of State officers.
No subject calls more loudly for attention,
or more necessarily demands it at present,
than that of temperance, and its friends have
need to be stirring themselves.
	SEVENTY-FIVE thousand men and many
millions of dollars are said to have been
sacrificed by Spain during the last four
years, to surpress the insurrection in Cuba,
which looks as formidable now as at
almost any other time. So much for forcing
on a people an unpopular government.
	THE VOORHEES anti-Mormon bill, of the
last session of Congress, it is said, has been
resurrected with a slightly changed form,
and presented in the Senate by Senator
Logan. Its object is to vest in the hands of
three persons—a U. S. judge, a district at-
torney and a U. S. Marshal—all power in
Utah; when the game of plunder can begin.
	MRS. GREELEY, whose ambitions are
reported to have been more intense than
those of her husband, is said to have made
the assertion that if she possessed the health,
the youth and the advantages of her
daughters she would shake the world!
With such a mother and the inimitable
Horace for a father, what may not be ex-
pected of the daughters? 
	THE HEADS of the Orleanist and Legiti-
mist aspirants to the French crown are 
reported to have come to an understanding,
and Chambord, chief of the Legitimists, is
quibbling over the question of the royal
standard. This is not waiting for dead
men’s shoes, but quarreling over who shall
wear them, and what kind of a shoe-string
they shall be tied with, before possession of
them is obtained. Napoleon is dead, but
the Bourbons do not yet rule France.
	LOUISIANA HAS two governors, each claim-
ing to be the lawful one; and two legislatures
with similar claims, that have elected two 
men to the United States Senate to fill the
seat of one. A great curse of the world 
is being over much governed, and Louisiana
seems to be in a fair way to have more than
her share of it; for there is danger, that in
addition to her double-headed monster at
home, federal authority may step in and set
both aside, or recognize one to the rejection
of the other, regardless of the will of the
majority of the citizens.
	ANOTHER MONARCH is about setting out
on his travels. The Shah of Persia pro-
poses to leave Teheran, the capital of Persia,
in April, with the intention of visiting
Constantinople, St. Petersburg, Berlin,
Vienna, London and Paris. He might add 
to the interest and attractiveness of his
journey by lecturing on what he knows
about famines, and telling how many of the
two millions of his subjects who died of
starvation might have been saved by the
use of the money which his European tour
will cost.
	IT IS reported that the Pope says the
bodies of the Apostles Philip and James
were discovered on Wednesday, January
5th, last, in the Church of the Apostles at
Rome. Were they embalmed? And if so
how did the poor followers of the despised
Savior secure such expensive treatment for
their bodies eighteen centuries ago? And
if they were not embalmed, how were they
preserved? Miraculously? And how were
they identified when found? It sounds
like a nice little religious romance, or what
in olden times used to be called “a pious
fraud;” which even Popes were supposed to
occasionally participate in.
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE is winning its way,
notwithstanding the ridicule with which it
is met, and which has to do duty for argu-
ment. A few days ago, on a debate in
Congress on the admission of Colorada as a
State, Mr. Sargent, of California, offered an
amendment that in the admission of new
States the right of suffrage should not be
abridged because of sex. Nothing may
come of this during the present Congress,
which expires on the 4th of next March;
but when the Forty-third Congress meets
there is good reason to believe that the
question of woman suffrage will receive
more attention than it has yet done. The
Republican party has given a semi-pledge
in favor of it, and Republicans in the next
Congress will be strong enough to carry any
measure they may choose. It is probable,
therefore, that during the present year this
question will advance so far that its agita-
tion will be not only more popular, but may
reach a successful consumation.
	FOR SOME weeks past the country has
been ringing with what is called the "Credit
Mobilier Scandal." Prominent members 
of Congress have been charged with having
received stock of the Credit Mobilier 
and the Union Pacific railroad to induce
them to vote for certain measures which
were expected to benefit the companies
named. Emphatic denials have been given
in public addresses, and have been sworn to
before the Congressional Committies inves-
tigating the affair; and yet the charges have
been just as emphatically sworn to, with the
details given in a manner that looks very
like convincing truth. But whether the
charges be true or false, one thing is plain;
members of Congress and prominent poli-
titions, on some side, are guilty of the
grossest perjury as they distinctly contradict
each other on oath, and that where there is
scarcely room to doubt that they know
exactly whether they are swearing truly or
falsely. This is a painful showing for the
legislators of a great country like this, and
is a strong argument in favor of the proposi-
tion that a few truthful, honorable women
in Congress wouldn't hurt but would help it.


