HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				——
			HOME DRESS.
				——
	WELL-managing housewives are already
considering their Spring sewing. Among
the first things necessary are the home
dresses. For home wear, calico retains its
supremacy. The most desirable is the Eng-
lish, which is a yard wide and can be bought
for 20 cents. It is firm and close in texture
and of patterns which commend themselves
both in color and beauty. Unlike our
American prints, they do not ape the French,
but have a character quite their own. The
prevailing tint is generally brown or purple,


in slender sprigs or geometrical patterns.
That in black and white is extremely pretty,
and washes admirably. French calico is
always desirable. It comes in beautiful de-
signs—stripes in colors harmoniously min- 
gled or in dark grounds, black, brown or 
wood tints, interspersed with bright bou-
quets and festooned with vines. They are
dressy, and, coquettishly made, make a very
becoming morning toilette. They cost from
25 to 50 cents a yard and are a yard wide.
American calicos we find now at ante-war
prices. They are constantly improving in
designs, but not in texture. They are so
cheap, however, that they can be often
I changed, if one does not take the making
into consideration.
	It is not in good taste to ornament calico
dresses elaborately. The most popular style
is the loose Gabrielle. The sleeves are
made coat—tapering closely to the wrist.
Oxydized buttons are very suitable, or bril-
liant pearl, medium size. We doubt
whether any style of calico dress can ever
rival the blouse, fitting easily and loosely,
and full skirt with gored front. This is
becoming to most figures.—Moore’s “Rural
New Yorker.”

WATERPROOFING.—A writer in the Lon-
don “Illustrated News” says: By the way,
touching waterproofs, I think I can give
travelers a valuable hint or two. For many
years I have worn India-rubber waterproofs;
but I will buy no more, for I have learned
that good Scottish tweed can be made per-
fectly impervious to rain, and, moreover, I
have learned how to make it so; and for the
benefit of my readers, I will here give the
recipe: In a bucket of soft water, put a half
a pound of sugar of lead and half a pound of
powdered alum; stir this at intervals until
it becomes clear; then pour it off into another
bucket, and put the garment therein, and
let it be in for twenty-four hours; then hang
it up to dry, without wringing it. Two of
my party (a lady and gentleman) have worn
garments thus treated in the wildest storm
of wind and rain, without getting wet. The
rain hangs upon the cloth in globules. In
short, they are really waterproof. The
gentleman walked, a fortnight ago, nine
miles in a storm of rain and wind such as
you purely see in the South, and when he
slipped off his overcoat, his underclothes
were as dry as when he put them on. This
is, I think, a secret worth knowing; for
cloth, if it can be made to keep out wet, is
in every way better than what we know as
waterproofs.

	Blanc Mange.—Four tablespoonfulls,
or three ounces, of corn-starch to one quart
of milk. Disolve the corn in some of the
milk. Put into the remainder of the miik,
four ounces of sugar, a little salt, a piece of
lemon rind, or cinnamon stick, and heat to
near boiling. Then add the mixed corn,
and boil (stirring it briskly) four minutes:
take out the rind, and pour into a mould or
cup, and let it stand until cold. When cold
and turned out, pour round it any kind of
stewed or preserved fruit, or a sauce of milk
and sugar.

	Rennet.—A more tender and delicate
curd than is produced by the common rennet
is said to be made with the rough coats
which line the gizzards of turkeys and
fowls. Take a number of them, clean from
them the pebbles they contain, rub well with
salt and hang them to dry. When to be
used, break off some bits of the skin and
pour on it some boiling water; in a few
hours the liquor is ready for use, and is to
be used the same as other rennet.


