A STEP TOWARDS REFORM.

	Men may say that women have less charity 
for the “fallen” of their own sex, than for the
corrupt and licentious among men. Admitting 
this to be too true, as evinced in practice if
not in sentiment, are not men the graver trans-
gressors even here? More than one gentleman
has, in our presence, lately drawn attention to
the shameful fact that the meanest libertines
among men, so they have wealth, have also in-
fluence, and are not only admitted to the best
circles in society, but are looked up to, fawned
upon and their company sought for by ladies,
as well as gentlemen, of the best society.
While a woman who has fled the paths of
virtue, no matter what the fatal cause may
have been or how pure-minded and innocent
she was known to be before she “fell,” has lost
her reputation, is shunned and looked down
upon by ladies in position, in many instances
the very ones who smile upon and flatter and
admire those who compassed her ruin. But
who first bring these popular scoundrels into
the presence of ladies in good society? Is it not
often the husband, father or brother who intro-
duces such a creature of humanity to the family
circle, and as a friend of such, are not the
members of the family bound to receive him
with courtesy? If the father invites him to
dinner should not the daughter accept his in-
vitation to attend the lecture? And if the
brother considers him a worthy companion to
walk and ride with, could the sister, in common
civility refuse to dance with him? Yet men in
good standing in society who have any regard
for their name, would not be seen in company
with a “fallen” woman, or allow their wives or
daughters to associate with her.
	A good story comes to us through private
sources, from one of the Eastern cities, in
reference to the injustice and inconsistency of
men on these points; which we give, as it
reaches us, while with-holding names:	
	A well-to-do gentleman, half merchant and
half farmer, with a family of five, including


himself, his wife, a clever lady of Irish descent,
while he is, himself an American, a son of
fine intellect and good education and two bril-
liant and witty daughters who are all grown to
maturity, gave a ball and supper on Christmas
evening. In the afternoon, before the guets
began to arrive, the younger gentleman of the
house came in with an intimate friend of his
with whom his sisters had met before, and of
whom they had heard “hard” stories. The
brother informed his mother and sisters that
said "friend” would be one of their guests that
evening. Of course they were “pleased”—
etiquette would not admit of their being other-
wise. As soon as the gentlemen left, a private
consultation of a serious nature took place
among the ladies, which ended in the elder Miss
—putting on cloak and hood and taking a walk
down around the corner. When she returned,
after some little delay, she was not alone. She
and a companion were met at the side gate by
her sister—father and brother were in the front
parlor. The two sisters and their guest, for
such was the third person, proceeded through
the back kitchen up stairs. The guests were
beginning to arrive. In half an hour the young
ladies were ready to join their mother in the
reception room. Choosing a moment when her
son was beside her, the two sisters approached
their mother, leading their shrinking yet
beautiful guest. With a kind maternal smile
the matron extended her hand while the young
man turned away with a horrified expression
exclaiming, “Powers of mercy!” As soon as
he could find a chance, he questioned his mother
and sisters as to what in the world had induced
them to have that creature present. They told
him she was there on purpose to meet his
“friend;” whereupon, the young gentleman
declared he should show her not the slightest
respect. To this his sisters affirmed that “that
knavish scamp of a friend” of his should share
the same at their hands. The appearance of
the “lady” guest in the ballroom, created quite
a sensation, but the ladies of the house paid her
such attention that their other guests could
not slight her. And several “respected” gentle-
men who were well known to be dissolute in
their habits, were severely “cut” by the brave
mother and daughters when they observed in
the father or son any signs of insurrection. The
circumstance has been a lesson to the whole
neighborhood, but most and best of all, to the
“fallen” girl who was the guest of the sisters,
and who, our informant states, is entirely re-
claimed.
	The experiment was a serious if not a danger-
ous one and would not do for many people to
repeat, but it illustrates the gross injustice of
society in the treatment of men and women who
may have fallen into evil ways; and shows
clearly the necessity for reform beginning with
the male members of families, who should shun
the male sinners with equal horror to that with
which they expect their wives, sisters and
daughters to shun the female sinners.


