WOMAN'S AGENCY.
				——
	That, to go to God the Father and ask of Him
a testimony of the truth, and for gifts and
blessings contained in the Gospel, is a divine
right belonging to woman as well as to man,
is clearly evinced in many instances related
in the sacred Scriptures.	In the case
of Hannah, the mother of the prophet
Samuel, when she prayed to the Lord to
give her a son, Eli, the priest, seeing that
her lips moved and that her voice was not
heard, said to her, “Woman how long wilt
thou be drunken with wine?” And Hannah
replied that she was not drunken, but that
she was a woman of a sorrowful heart. And
he said, “The Lord grant thee thy petition.”
And the Lord did hear and answer her
prayer.
	There are many other instances which
might be mentioned. The Shunaemite
woman who sent for the Prophet Elisha to
restore her son to life; and it was done
according to her faith. Also the mother of
Samson of whom it is said, an angel of the
Lord appeared to her and told her she should
have a son that should deliver Israel out of
the hands of the Philistines; telling her
what to do to obtain this great blessing.
She must drink no wine nor strong drink,
neither eat any unclean thing. Men in
our day would think it rather strange for an
angel to appear to their wives without first
appearing to them, but nevertheless, it is
written that women in ancient days received
their dead to life through faith, and enjoyed
the visitation of angels. I would be willing
to be classed with the superstitious and
ignorant to obtain like blessings.
								W. E.


A person’s pride should only dwell in
the principles and not in the manner,
placing nature above everything unworthy,
or that shall lessen dignity or impair honor.
	When St. Paul tells women they must be
obedient to their husbands, he does not re-
lieve husbands of the obligation to make
wives sensible why it is they ought to obey.
There is a corelative duty; and obedience,
when the one part is duly performed, is en-
tire devotion to the instructor, guardian,
and guide.	
	A Brave Wife.—One of the severest
and saddest personal misfortunes created by
our late direful calamity that we have had
to record is the following: On one of the
streets at the south end of our city there
resides a middle-aged man with a wife and
children, who, previous to the fire, were
living happily and faring sumptuously evey
day upon an income arising mainly from
some $300,000 invested in good paying in-
surance stocks. With the calamity all of
this property and source of income were
swept away, leaving him a poor man. It
was a terrible blow. But his loving wife,
though reared in the lap of luxury and un-
used to the perplexities of life, quietly rose
above the wreck and ruin of their worldly
store, disposed of her jewels, and, with such
means as she was able to command, makes
her “debut” as a landlady of a south end
boarding house. The pluck of such a wife
is credit enough for any man to build upon,
and capital enough to float him over the
very tidal wave of misfortune.—“Boston
Herald.”


