EXCITEMENT CONCERNING UTAH.
			  —
	﻿The periodical excitement in regard to Utah
is being worked up in the East. Scarcely a lead-
ing journal is now received from that part of the
United States that does not contain something
sensational from Washington, relative to what
is going to be done with Utah. At one time
ten thousand troops are to be sent here imme-
diatly; another time, petitions are stated to
have been received from the “Gentiles” of this
Territory, asking assistance; next, it is averred
Congress will pass some sweeping measure to
solve the “Mormon problem;” and then it is
announced that President Grant has deter-
mined to have the law enforced in Utah if it
requires the entire force of troops in the United
States to do it.
	While reading all this we involuntary ask
what place is the subject of so much comment?
And can scarcely realize that our moderately
quiet home, where, there seems nothing to
attract such attention, can be the object of all
the excitement we read of. But the fact forces
itself upon us, that there are a few men—bad
men, we may say; unscrupulous men, who aim
at carrying out the destructive policy of “rule
or ruin” who are the authors or circulators of
nearly all the falsehoods published concerning
Utah. They assert that the “Gentiles” are re-
stricted in their constitutional rights in this
Territory, but they fail to point to a single illus-
tration; they allege that all elective offices in
the Territory are tilled by candidates of the
“Mormons,” conveying the impression that
the elections are not fairly conducted, but sup-
pressing the fact that the Mormons, being in
the majority of eight to one, will naturally do
as people do elsewhere, elect their candidates
peacefully and lawfully; they demand that the
elective franchise be taken from the women of
Utah, because those women, understanding
them and their purposes, refuse to be led by
them or be their dupes; and they publicly
charge immorality upon the people of Utah,
while privately acknowledging that the Mor-
[new column]
mons are the most moral people they have
ever lived among.
	The astonishing part of the matter is, that
the people of the Eastern States, having had
such calumnies refuted so often, can be
deceived by them again. Why, it is only a
couple of days since we read a telegram from
Washington, in the “Ogden Junction,” which
reminded us of the sensational stories which
used to be sent broadcast over the world, of
President Young opening all the letters sent
from Utah, to see that no person told the truth
concerning it; and of the hairbreadth escapes
which some people had in fleeing from “the
horrors of Mormondom.” Few could be found
now to believe such trash, but a leading paper
published in Washington, largely owned by
Senator Harlan—who is a special favorite of
Dr. Newman—actually says that the “Mor-
mons” have “sought to exclude from their midst
all who fail to conform to the Mormon faith,
and practice; a system of persecution that
ought to have been rebuked long since!” It is
not supposed that this friend of Dr. Newman,
who personally had the privilege of denouncing
"Mormonism” in the large Tabernacle in this
city, did not know any better than this, for
such ignorance would be inexcusable; but he
does not hesitate to violate truth and trample
honesty in the mire, that he may deceive those
who are no better informed than to believe
him, that bitter feelings may be excited against
a community whose industry, temperance,
probity, sincerity and virtue are a standing
reproach against the hypocrisy and prominent
vices of the age. But while the old adage may
be correct, that a falsehood will travel twice
round the earth while truth is putting on its
boots, this should also be remembered, that
“Truth crushed to earth will rise again,”
for it is sustained by an inherent power which
cannot alway be overcome.


