FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	DISTURBANCES are threatened in Wales
by the striking miners.
	FIFTY-nine fishermen were drowned at
Yarmouth, England, in the recent gales.
	AUSTIN, Texas, talks of bridging the Col-
orado at a cost of $500,000.
	A COLORED sportsman in Florida bagged
nine full grown alligators in one day.
	IT is estimated that the annual production
of gold throughout the world is now about
$200,000,000. 
	THE largest deposits of anthracite coal in
the world are in Pennsylvania, the mines of
which supply the market with millions of
tons annually.
	THE annual cost of maintenance of the gal-
vanic batteries used by the Western Union
Telegraph Company is over $125,000.
	BRIGHTON, England, has just opened to
visitors with appropriate ceremony, a mag-
nificent aquarium, probably the largest in
the world.
	FOR the first time in the court annals of
Maryland a man has sued a woman for
refusing to marry him. He lays his damages
at $3,000.
	THE poor Indian is represented in Oregon
by Howlish Wampoo, who has 600 head of
cattle, 2,000 horses and a bank account of
$5,000.	
	EZRA Cornell has lately invested $1,000
in a bust of President Lincoln, copied from
Vinnie Ream’s statue of him, and he will
give it to Cornell University.
	A RUSSIAN lady, who desires to be anony-
mous, but is rumored to be “still very young
and a native of Siberia,” has offered 50,000
roubles for a medical course for ladies, to be
given at the Imperial College of Physicians 
	UPON the sudden death of Mr. George P.
Putnam, three eminent publishers gener-
ously assumed the charge of his business
during the holiday season, for the benefit of
his family, until the surviving members of
the firm can return from abroad and assume
control.
	MADAME Ocker-Boulacre, who died re-
cently at Geneva, and who was famed for 
her beneficence, has left bequests to the
amount of 155,000 francs. Among others,
one of 40,000 to the bureau des Families,
one of 10,000 francs to the National Hospital,
and one of 25,000 francs to the Cantonal
Hospital.
	IT is estimated that in England, more
than 3,000 infants are every year suffocated
by their mothers, who have them with them
in bed. In Bavaria there is a law which
prohibits parents having children under two
years in bed with them, the result being
that instances of suffocation of infants are
very rare there.
	THE Charleston “Republican” has the fol-
lowing:	An exchange paper says that
“Leland Stanford came to California twenty
years ago with only one shirt to his back:
since then, by close attention to business,
he has accumulated 10,000,000.” The “Re-
publican” wants to know what a man wants
of 10,000,000 shirts.


BENEVOLENCE is literally well-willing.
Beneficence is literally well doing. The
former consists of intention the latter of
action. The former is the cause, the latter
the result. Benevolence may exist without
beneficence, but beneficence always supposes
benevolence; a man is not said to be benefi-
cent who does good from sinister views.
The benevolent man enjoys but half his
happiness if he cannot be beneficent.


