A CHAPTER IN THE LIFE OF NAOMA.

	Naoma was the daughter of———of Ro-
chester, New York, where some of her
family still reside. She married. Her
husband was a moral man, a skillful me-
chanic, and a good financier; she an indus-
trious, frugal, and loving wife. A few short
years of labor and love, crowned with the
blessing of home, with all its endearing sur-
roundings and appertunances, caused her
heart to swell with uncontrollable joy as she
contemplated the haven of domestic bliss
in which she might now repose.
	But a missionary came. He said, “My
friends, I come to you in the name of my
Master, to offer you a commission to labor in
a the vineyard of the Lord. But know that
the Alter of sacrifice accompanies it—that
you will be required to sacrifice all that you
now hold dear. The conditions imply that
you, of your own free will, give yourselves,
your affections, your time, your all to Him
to whom all persons and all things rightfully
belong."
	They accepted the commision with its
conditions, laid their friends and their pos-
sessions on the alter, and journeyed to Kirt-
land, Ohio, where a few who had accepted
the same commission, had preceded them.
Freely they had received, freely they must
give. God was no respecter of persons; this
commission must be offered to all people,
The harvest was great and the laborers few.
Naoma’s husband must take a mission to
Europe. She must do the best she could in
a little rented house, with three little
mouths to fill, six little feet to shoe, and all
the etceteras thereunto belonging. No
matter. She had a light heart and a ready
hand; her husband was on duty, he would
honor his commission, and God would bless
his labors. Her duties would be made light;
they would be happy. And they were
happy, as their letters filled with affection,
confidence, and good cheer constantly testi-
tied.
	Years sped swiftly by, and sacrifice was
almost forgotten in the joys of the return.
But once enlisted, the armor must not be
laid off; sin must be combatted at home and
abroad. A mission to the New England
States came. Their neighbors did not like
their commission.
	Missouri would not be told that, if she
sinned, the hand of an avenging God would
be stretched out over her. These commis-
sioners were driven into Illinois.
	With an increased family, increased
poverty, and decreased bodily health, our
heroine was here. Her wifely confidence,
motherly devotion, and Christian resignation,
were subjects of remark and admiration for
her acquaintances. The light which they
had received, must not be hid. The com-
mission must be held up here. The world
must be reproved for sin, and warned of a
judgment to come.
	Naoma’s husband must fill another mission
among the European nations. The peaceful
trust that pervaded her bosom, made the
little log-cabin with its shake floor, in
which she and her sick children were left,
a kind of paradise to her; she could make the
rough places smooth for his sake, and the
cause they had espoused.
	Again the husband returned. He erected
a commodious dwelling, which they soon
filled with home comforts. The blessed
reunion had almost removed the traces of
anxious care that were becoming visible on
Naoma’s countenance. She thanked God
that he had enabled her, if not joyfully,
uncomplainingly, to take the spoiling of her 
goods, to endure the scoffs of friends, and
breast the storms of adversity.
	She felt that she had passed through the
furnace of affliction, and no more could be
required of woman.
	Poor Naoma, she knew not all. The
dregs of her cup were not yet drained. Her
husband—he to whom she could ever trust-
ingly confide any thoughts, and who had
ever thus trustingly confided in her, became
suddenly silent and thoughtful. His steps
became heavier and his head more bowed. If
she surprised a look of tender compassion
bent upon her, it was instantly averted. Her
heart was pained with the weight that she
could see and feel, resting upon her hus-
band’s mind; but she could not discern its
nature. She sought his confidence, he
evaded her inquiries. She sought again, he
said, “I cannot reveal to you the burden of
my thoughts to make you unhappy!”
Months rolled by. She sought his confi-
dence the third time. He repulsed her.
She tried to reason; her husband was a good
man, and therewith she ought to be content.
She would not be an exacting wife; she
would try to discipline her mind to rest
satisfied. Such a victory was easier sought
than achieved. Her unconquerable heart
would rebel; it would yearn for that recip-
rocal trust, which she felt was essential
to preserve the oneness that constituted
connubial bliss.
	Was the equilibrium of her mind, which
had been so long disturbed, never to be
restored?
	One morning in early spring, her hus-
band went to a Southern settlement to
preach. Susan Dean called; Naoma received
her kindly, even cordially, but the sadness
that pervaded the atmosphere of her person,
was sensibly felt by Susan. She said, “my
dear friend, you are not well to-day, let me
do something for you.” Naoma tried to
smile, said her ailment was only a fearful
foreboding of an undefinable something that
made her “so miserable” that she sometimes
feared the Evil One had put his finger in
her pie. But she could not eat in the
morning; they would have a cup of tea, and
then she would feel better. The water in
the polished tea kettle was soon boiled, and a
snow white napkin spread on the teaboard,
on which was placed some temptingly nice
bread, butter and plum preserves. Susan
pronounced the tea just the right flavor,
but Naoma could not eat. Susan marveled,
and bade her friend good bye. 
	Naoma opened a book, it seemed mockery;
no writer had ever felt as she felt—she
hoped not—and if not, they could have no
sympathy with her. What could she do?
she folded her arms and gave her mind a
few moments to a new train of thought.
Why had she not brought the burden of her
soul to the feet of Jesus? There she could
be understood; there she had ever found
succor, comfort, strength, as her circum-
stances had required. There she would
bring this, her great sorrow.
	She retired to a silent recess. Tears of
contrition filled her eyes, while with low
and tremulous voice, she pleaded with the
Father in the name of the Son to show her
wherein she was unworthy, that she might
repent, make a just restitution, and be
enabled to discharge the duties she owed to
herself, to her husband, family and to the
world, in a manner acceptable to God.
	A sweet voice from the Celestial Court
notified her that her petition was heard,
that the offering of her contrite heart was
accepted, and that the channel of communi-
cation was now open. On the holy commu-
nion I draw the curtain for half an hour.
	Naoma appeared in the midst of her
household with a new peace in her soul,
which spoke its own language through her
countenance. Her husband returned from
the neighboring settlement where he had
been to preach, and she met him with
smiles and tears. He took her hand carefully
in his, and asked, “what has happened to
you during my absence.” And she an-
swered, “Only that the Lord has deigned to
reveal to me the secret you sought to keep.”
They both wept. At length he said, “Naoma,
could you bear it?” she replied, “The
subject is so sacred, so solemn, that I cannot
converse upon it now!” he said, “I will
leave you for an hour, during which time
we will pray for ourselves and each other,
then peradventure, we may talk together.”
	There came an end to even “that” hour.
Her husband entered her apartment and
said, “How do you feel by this time,
Naoma?” She replied, “I cannot define my
feelings, farther than this; I know you to
be a servant of the Most High; I know that
the God of Abraham is your God; I know
He is a wise dictator; and wherein His ways
are not as my ways, I wish you to heed His
dictations, regardless of me. In spite of
all my good resolutions I formed before the
Lord, I find myself weak before you. Bear
with me, dear husband, a few months, and
I trust you will find me stronger.”
	Three months later, Naoma caressed her
fifth child. And her husband said, “can
you now kneel with me at the sacred Alter
and there, in the presence of God, Angels,
and witnesses, of your own free will and
choice give to me wives?” Naoma breathed
a little shorter, but answered unhesitatingly,
“yes, sir, and bless you, and bless them, and
thank God that I have the privilege.”
	Did Naoma still love her husband? Her
own words were that she “reverenced" him
now. 
									B.


﻿THE THREE last elected United States
Senators are accused of having bought their
seats: Bogg, of Missouri; Ingalls, of Kansas;
and Jones, of Nevada.
	“NO CAKE—no cards—no divorce,” was
appended to a Vermont marriage notice
lately. It is to be hoped the last condition
will be valid during life.
	LOCKMAN, the philosopher, was once
asked who had given him his first lesson in
wisdom. “The blind,” he replied, “who
do not move a step in advance until they
make sure of the ground with their stick.’
	CHARACTER is higher than intellect.
Thinking is the functionary. The stream
retreats to its source. A great soul will be
strong to live as well as strong to think.
Living is a total act. Thinking is a partial
act. Let the grandeur of justice shine in
his affairs. Let the beauty of affection
cheer his lowly roof. The scholar loses no
hour that the man lives.
	EYES.—The eyes of men converse as
much as their tongues, with the advantage
that the ocular dialect needs no dictionary,
but is understood the world over. When
the eyes say one thing and the tongue an-
other, a practised man relies on the language
of the first. If a man be off his centre, his
eyes show it. You can read in the eyes of
your companion whether your argument
hits him, though his tongue will not confess
it. There is a look by which a man shows
he is going to say a good thing, and a look
when he has said it. Vain and forgotten
are all the fine offers and offices of hospitality
if there be no holiday in the eye. How
many furtive inclinations are avowed by the
eye though dissembled by the lips!
