WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
					LONDON.	
					     ——
	Written while President G. A. Smith and party, consisting 
of L. Snow his sister E.R. Snow, F. Little, his daughter Clara, 
P. A. Sc ettler, G Dunford and T. Jennings were in London
“en route” for Palestine, 
			BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
				 —
	Far. far away from our dear native land,
	In England’s great Metropolis we stand;
	Where art a' d skill—labor and wealth combine
	With time’s co-operation in design
	Of superstructure’s bold and beauteous form,
	With all varieties of strength and charm.

	Here massive columns—stately towers, arise.
	And lift their spires in greetings to the skies; 
	Fine parks and gardens, palaces and halls.
	With scu ptured [niches,—frescue-painted walls; 
	Where no expense is spared to beautify,
	Nor time, nor toil, to captivate the eye,
	We saw, and viewing, continuously admired 
	The master strokes by Genius’ hand inspired.

	To “New Westminster Palace” we resort,
	Where the Chief Justice holds his august court;
	Twas then in session, and the Exchequer too—
	In wig and gown—a grand, imposing view!
	The House of Lords and Commons, too we saw,
	But not those grave expounders of the law.

	With deferential thought we fixed our gaze,
	There, in “The Prince’s Hall.” where face to face,
	On either side, on caved projections stood,
	With features varied as in life’s warm blood,
	White marble statues, from the sculptor’s hand,
	Of British Statesmen, men who could command
	The power of eloquence—the force of mind,
	A mighty nation’s destinies to bind—
	Chatham, Pitt, Granville. Walpole, Fox, beside
	Others who’re justly England's boast and pride.

	We visited the "Abbey" where repose in state,
	The effigies of many good and great,
	With some whose d eds are well deserving hate.
	Group’d in “ The Poet’s Corner,” here, we found,
	With rich, artistic sculpture trophies crown’d,
	The mem’ries of the muse’s world renown’d.

	In some compartments where old, massive stones
	Comprize the flooring, lie their mouldering bones,
	And we with reverential footsteps tread
	Above the ashes of the illustrious dead.

	  Great London City, mart of wealth and power,
	home for the wealthy—charnel for the poor!
	And here amid its boasted pomp and pride,
	Some faithful Soldiers of the Cross reside—
	A few choice spirits whom the watchman’s care,
	By humble search, found scatter’d here and there,
	“Like angels visit, few and far between,”
	As patient gardeners sep’rate clusters glean,
	  They barter earth’s allurements and device
	To gain the Pearl  of great and matchless price,
	And what to them the honors, pride and show
	That perish with their using, here below?
 	Their hopes are high—their noble aims extend
	Where life and peace and progress never end; 
	Where God’s own Kingdom, Time’s last-knell
		survives,
	Crowned with the gifts and powers of endless lives


