EDITORIAL NOTES. 

    BRIBERY INVESTIGATING committees are
the prevailing fashion in political circles.
    THE NEW YORK “Herald” writes it “Dis-
creditable Mobilier” instead of Credit Mo-
bilier, and the “Herald” is correct.
    BOSTON REJOICED in thirty days of un-
interrupted sleigh-riding lately as an evi-
dence of the equability and severity of its
winter climate.
    FORTY-ONE newspapers had their birth
in one week, in the United States, this
present year; and thirteen journalistic ven-
tures came to an untimely end in the same
space of time.
    ONE OF the most horrible things lately
related, in an age of horrors, is that on a
trial for murder in St. Louis, the heart of
the woman murdered was taken to the
jury room and shown to the jury.
    JULIAN HAWTHORNE, son of Nathaniel
Hawthorne, the American novelist, shows
hereditary talent, and is the author of a
novel for which, it is said, the Appletons
have paid him $3,000 in manuscript.
    THE DECADING delegates from Montana
and Idaho, Clagett and Merritt, who failed
to be re-elected to Congress, signalized their
last hours in Congress by emulating each
other in the bitterness of their attacks on
Utah.	
    THE MOST severe weather ever experi-
enced in the United States occurred in
Minnesota on the 13th, 14th and 15th of
January last. Dr. Kane on his Polar expe-
dition, it is said, only once met with such
an awful storm.
    NEW YORK continues agitated over the
question of hanging some of. its murderers.
There are over twenty of them in the
Tombs prison, but “a life for a life” appears
to be a law which New York sentimentality
cannot well stomach.
    IT IS now proposed in Boston to have
young women instructed in washing, iron-
ing, cooking, and other practical parts of
housekeeping; but there is a possibility
that so sensible an idea will be strangled
by some strong-minded attempt to change
its character into something of a political
nature.
    SOUTH CAROLINA, by law, allows a hus-
band to strike his wife “three licks with a
switch,” as a Judge of that State styles it,
without being liable to punishment. If Utah
had a law so barbarous on its statute book,
what a howl would be raised concerning it,
and rightly too; but why so silent concerning
South Carolina?
    MR. JACOB BRIGHT has introduced into
the British House of Commons “a bill to
remove the electoral disabilities of women.”
Progressive as the American people are,
there is every prospect that woman suffrage
will be reached in England before it becomes
general in the United States. Even now
women, who are property owners, can vote
at vestry meetings, and in some of the lead-
ing towns in municipal elections.
    THE SOLEMNITY of ancient Palestine is to
be awakened by the shrill scream of railroad
whistles; and “two hours and a half from
Jaffa to Jerusalem” will take the place of
the slow-moving quadrupeds of earlier
[new column]
times. Thus changes come, and the vision
of the prophet who saw the rushing of
“swift beasts of burden” will be verified.
    THE FRANKING privilege has been
abolished, to take effect on July 1st, 1873;
and the post office estimates have been
reduced a million and a half of dollars
already. This is all very well, as far as it
goes, but in view of some other existing
facts, it is like stopping the waste at the
spigot, while the bung-hole is open.
    MR. CLAGETT, the Montana candidate in
Congress, said a short time ago that the
Mormons paraded the Nauvoo Legion in the
streets of Salt Lake City, last general election
in this Territory, and prevented people
voting. Mr. Hooper, delegate from Utah,
very properly denounced the statement as
false, and every resident of Salt Lake City
will sustain the Utah delegate. This is the
sort of “information concerning Utah” which
men like Mr. Clagett furnish to Congress.
    WHILE THE case of the United States
Senator Caldwell, of Kansas, was under in-
vestigation, he being charged with buying
his way to the Senate by bribing the mem-
bers of the Kansas legislature; United States
Senator Pomeroy, of the same State, sought
to secure his re-election by similar corrupt
means, was exposed, arrested, and placed
under heavy bonds to stand his trial for the
crime. And these men fill the place
of mighty patriots of the past!
    WHAT WITH Credit Mobilier investiga-
tions, probing other charges of bribery,
inquiring into the purchase of seats in the
United States Senate, and similar proceed-
ings in Washington, Congress, for some
weeks past, has had to air considerable
political soiled linen, the stench from which
is very offensive to the public nostril at
home, and its appearance is not calculated
to increase respect for our moral purity
abroad.
    ONE OF the most terrible aspects of the
Credit Mobilier bribery investigation, prose-
cuted by two Congressional committees, is
the amount of willful perjury which must have
been already committed. Prominent men
and prominent members of Congress, give
each other the lie, under oath, with a
degree of recklesssness that should  shock
the moral sense of the country. One painful
fact is clear, not only does the Congress of
the United States contain men susceptible
of bribery, but it also contains members who
must have knowingly committed the crime
of perjury, for which, could it be brought
home to the guilty parties, they should not
only be expelled front Congress and from
respectable society, but their term of service
should be transferred from the halls of legis-
lation to the cells of the penitentiary.
    HARVARD HAS taken another step for-
ward. It is proposed to establish, under
the supervision of the college, a series of
examinations for ladies, in which success
will entitle the competitors to certificates
equal to university degrees. Those who
succeed will not be able to write A. B. or A.
M. after their names, but they will be able
to say they have won as high collegiate dis-
tinction. Very good, so far; but if ladies
cannot secure the degree of Bachelor of
Arts, or Master of Arts, why can they not
be dubbed Spinster of Arts and Mistress of
[new column]
Arts? We have no desire to perpetrate a
pun over the latter, although numbers of 
them are mistresses of quite a number of
arts; but it does seem small business for
learned and ponderous bodies, like Harvard,
to concede the plain and simple rights of all
God’s creatures—to cultivate the intellect
and equally to share honors justly won—
in such piece-meal fashion.
    ONE THE 14th and 15th of the present
month the advocates of woman suffrage, in
Oregon and Washington Territory, are to
meet in convention, for the purpose of effect-
ing a permanent organization, encouraging
the formation of auxiliary couuty organiza-
tions, and generally adopting such measures
as may be deemed best for the purpose of
aiding the agitation looking to securing the
suffrage for women. The movement has
made much progress in Oregon, through the
efforts of Mrs. Duniway, editor of the “New
North West,” published at Portland. In-
deed, in this matter, the West is far in
advance of the East, and of New England 
supposed to be the cradle of reforms. 
Wyoming, a western Territory, was the
first place where woman-suffrage was au-
thorized by law; Utah, another western
Territory, came next; and they are yet the
only portions of the Republic where women
enjoy the right of the ballot. Then, too, the
West has three women’s papers, the “New
North West,” of Portland, Oregon; the
“Pioneer,” of San Francisco, California; and
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, of Salt Lake City,
Utah, all flourishing; which is more than
the East can boast of. New England is
evidently falling in the rear, and should
look to it.
    LEGISLATIVE JOKING sometimes becomes 
important. The Nevada legislature, it is 
said, just now, has under consideration a bill 
prohibiting what are called “Peter Funk
lectures,” or lectures by “dead beats,” as
the western phrase expressively has it, and 
proposing to punish newspaper reporters for
“puffing” them. This is a legislative joke;
and it reminds us of another legislative
joke, as we have heard it from a very reliable
source. When the proposition to extend the
elective franchise to women was broached
first in Wyoming legislature, it was consid-
ered a rich joke, and as such passed through 
both branches of the legislature, each con- 
cluding to let the joke pass them, and both
believing the governor of the Territory
would veto it, being satisfied that so huge a
joke would never do to become a law. But the
governor did not veto it, and the women of
that Territory first enjoyed the elective
franchise by statute law. The last Wyom-
ing legislature concluded it would try and .
nullify that joke, and so passed a bill
repealing the act which granted the suffrage 
to women, but governor Campbell interposed
the veto there, and for the good of the
Territory women can still control its elections
when they choose. The legislature of Utah
did not confer the suffrage upon women as a
joke; in fact it was discussed with much
seriousness, several leading ladies of this
city being present as attentive and inter-
ested spectators; but the bill passed, and was
approved by acting governor Mann; and we
enjoy the ballot just as much as if the
measure had passed in the midst of the most
hilarious bursts of laughter.


