SPLINTERS.

    Laura D. Fair is reported to be before the
San Francisco court again, bringing suit this
time......English papers congratulate New
York on the final condemnation of Stokes......
King Victor Emanual has had a severe
attack of rheumatic fever......Nilsson will
return to America this year......The Grand
Duke Alexis will take a turn in Siberia........
New York has one hundred lady physicians.
......Lafayette, Indiana, has the spotted
fever and eighty-two licensed saloons......
Foreign Ministers at Hong Kong, report
says, are no longer required to kneel and
bow their heads to the floor on entering the
presence of his “Celestial” Highness......Con-
cord, New Hampshire, and Springfield, Illi-
nois, had destructive fires at the same time,
recently......Kentucky has filled two asy-
lums and wants another......Western people
have had but little sleighing, though there
has been considerable slaying carried on
so far this season......A new system of send-
ing telegrams in opposite directions on the
same wire simultaneously, is in use on the
Western Union lines......Vallejo, California,
claims possession of the embalmed body of
an emperor who ruled China three thousand
years ago......A lady’s hat with all its trim-
mings and a band box was lately sent from
California to Maine, for eleven cents postage.
......Turin, Italy, has produced a thirty-three
ton cannon......Yale college students have
spent over $10,000 within the last two
months for pictures of themselves......A
hymenial paper, called the “Matrimonial
News” was started in Chicago on the first of
January......The “Bethel Fair,” lately held
in Cincinnati, for charitable purposes, realized
$21,405:99......There is likely to be an enor-
mous emigration to this country early in
the spring......Ex-Senator Ross has com-
menced the publication of a small evening
paper in Lawrence, Kansas......Iowa sold
226,680 acres of swamp land last year.......
Prince Charles of Prussia, has been ap-
pointed to the honorary command of a
brigade of Russian artillery, by the Czar.......
Street railways are under way in Calcutta
......Ic-icles, forty feet long, indicate the
weather in Hartford, Connecticut.......Two
lashes a pound is the rate paid by dusky
Georgians for stolen turkeys......Sixty-three
Georgia gin-houses have been burned up
within the last four months......During a
recent hurricane, waves forty feet high
dashed over the quays at Naples......The
number of Italians rendered homeless by
the late floods will exceed 80,000......The
gold mines of Peru are more comepletely
exhausted than those of California......The
chances are that 1816, the coldest year ever
known in the Eastern States, will yet find
its match in 1873......According to accounts,
New York had, on an average last year, two
fatal accidents a day and three suicides and
one murder weekly......A man accused of
bigamy declared he could see no fault in
having an appetite for spare ribs......A dissi-
pated youth in Virginia was shot by Mrs.
Price while in the act of eloping with her
daughter......Two old misers in Jacksonville,
Illinois, froze to death, lately, with an
abundance of fuel in the house......Failures
of large houses tn London are rappidly suc-
ceeding each other; that of Anselmo,
Vivante & Co., merchants, failed lately,
liabilities $3,500,000......Newburyport has a
school-house which is said to be haunted by
the ghost of a beautiful little boy, with pale
face, mild blue eyes and flaxen hair......The
Empress Eugenie will issue a proclamation
to the people of France, that she assumes
the regency during the minority of her son
......During the year of 1871, New York had
26,976 deaths and in 1872, 32,647 deaths......
It is urged that the present prices paid for
telegraphing are too high, and that if the
lines were under control of the Govern-
ment the rates would be lowered......Mark
Twain’s “New Cock Robin,” published in
the Hartford “Evening Post,” furnishes
five editors for the New York “Tribune”
—himself included—and all these failing,
offers George Francis Train as a positive
success......The oldest governor in the
United States is General Dix......The Patri-
arch of Jerusalem, recently died in that
city......Miss Susan M. Johnson lectures in
St. Louis on the Gospel of Spiritualism......
White furs are used in Paris for trimming
evening dresses......Spurgeon, whose life
was lately despaired of, has entirely re-
gained his health......Fred Douglas is going
to Europe......A gentleman remarks that the
richest thing he has seen during the season
of mud, was a purple silk velvet morn ing
dress which swept the streets, worn by the
wife of a man who works for his daily wages.


