LEGAL INCONSISTENCY. 
	
	Some of the lawyers of this city—twenty-six,
indeed—have signed a document, published last
week in the “Salt Lake Herald,” which is at
once an accusation against the Territory and a
memorial to Congress, setting forth some of the
usual charges against the people of Utah which
ought to be too stale now to be rewarmed and
served up again for the thousandth time, by
these gentlemen. The “Herald” has been
handling the document without gloves, and
showing in plain terms its unfairness, weak- 
ness, unjust statements and bitter partisanship;
but one portion of it demands notice by the
EXPONENT. It covertly attacks the right of the
women of Utah to the elective franchise, by
attacking the law conferring the franchise upon
them:  We say covertly, and might add that
the entire document is gotten up in such style,
is not straightforward, nor honorable, but reads
more like the plea of a pettifogger in one of the
lower courts than a composition such as would
be expected from twenty-six individuals who
are entitled by law and usage to be styled
“learned gentlemen.” The document submits
“that the act of February 12th, 1870, prostitutes
the right of suffrage by conferring it upon an
alien woman without even qualification of time
of residence.” The simplest and most complete
way of refuting this is by quoting the act itself,
which being short, we here append in full:
				AN ACT.
Conferring upon women the elective franchise.
	(Approved February 12, 1870.)
	Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah:
That every woman of the age of twenty-one
years who has resided in this Territory six
months next preceding any general election,


born; or naturalized in the United States, or
who is the wife, widow, or daughter of a native-
born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this
Territory.
	Sec. 2. All laws or parts of laws conflicting
with this Act are hereby repealed.
	The act is so plain that it seems impos-
sible any one would attempt to dispute the fact
that it convicts these gentlemen of willful and
deliberate misstatements, with intent to de-
ceive.
	In looking over the names we note some who
were at one time very anxious that the women
of Utah should possess the elective franchise.
They were then, as they are now, aspirants for
notoriety and power; and they imagined that
women were weak, pliable beings, who could
not withstand their wonderfully eloquent
sophistries, but would rush to the polls enthusi-
astically determined to give these wordy
champions the desired elevation to office and
emoluments. But when the women of Utah
received the elective franchise, it was speedily
apparent that they could think and act for
themselves, and that they would vote for the
candidates whom they believed most suitable;
and they actually did vote for the men who had
conferred upon them the legal right to vote.
Then came a change with these before-time
self-proclaimed champion of the  "down-trod-
den women of Utah.” They found they had
made a mistake, and reckoned without suffi-
cient acquaintance with independent woman-
nature; and they have since been more loudly
urgent that Congress should step forward and
annul the Territorial statute than they ever
were that the women of Utah should receive
the elective franchise.
	As it is always well to know our friends, and
as some of our readers or their husbands, fathers,
or sons, may, unfortunately, have occasion to
require the services of a lawyer, we append the
names of the twenty-six who urge upon Con-
gress legislation inimical, to Utah, and the
taking from the women of Utah the right of
suffrage.
	J. B. Bosborough,		R. H. Robertson
	D. Cooper,			C. W. Bennett,
	Wm. Haydon,		C. K.Gilchrist,
	Frank Tilford,			C. H. Morgan
	D. J. Toohy,			Sol. P. McCurdy,
	E. P. Johnson,		J. N. H. Patcick,
	Wm. Hyndman,		Wm. P. Appleby,
	James M. Carter,		M. Kirkpatrick,
	Thomas Marshall,		Jno. R. McBride,
	Jonathan C. Royle,	Warren Earll,
	Wm. C. Hall,			George E. Whitney,
	Jas. G. Spratt,			Wells Spicer,
	W.W. Gee,			R. N. Baskin.


