THE SEX.
					-
	ONE hundred women are said, to be study- 
in law in American colleges.
	AGNES Ethel is to marry a wealthy New 
Yorker.
	THE Principal of Vassar College is Miss 
Perry; and Maria Mitchel is Professor of 
Astronomy in the same institution.
	THE piano sent to the future Empress of 
China is of gold and laquer, keys of mother- 
of-pearl, and plays itself like a music-box.
	TWO daughters of the Earl of Portsmouth 
have taken certificates at the London uni- 
versity, in connection with the Cambridge
local examinations.
	MISS Mary Nolan, of the St. Louis “Cen-
tral Magazine,” has applied for a patent for
a portable reservoir, of her invention, which
is to be used in preventing large fires.
	Marie Antoinette’s work-table has been
placed in the Louvre. The Empress Eugenie
bought it at a sale some years ago for $8,600,
and it was fortunately saved from the Tuil-
Ieries before the fire.
	MISS Eliza Lyman has Contracted to fur-
nish the lumber for all the water-tanks and
depot buildings of a new railroad to be built
in Vermont, and is going to superintend the
work herself.
	THE little coquettish curls or frizzes, now	
so commonly employed to adorn the brows 
of ladies were much worn by the belles of
the last century, and were called heart-	
breakers.
	IT is a singular fact that many ladies who
know how to preserve everything else, can’t 
preserve their tempers. Yet it may easily 
be done on the self-sealing principle. It is 
only to “keep the mouth of the vessel tightly	
closed.”
	MISS Ransom of Cleveland, Ohio, an artist 
of merit, who painted the first picture over 
bought by the government of a woman, has
fiuished a full-length portrait of General	
Thomas, which is spoken of as a work of 
great merit.
	EMILY Faithfull’s face, as described by a 
friend; “A pair of dark and very piercing
eyes over hung by a massive forehead and
brow, nose somewhat masculine, and mouth
large, firm, and backed by a set of good
teeth, make a face in which manly intellect
is intimately blended with manly firmness.”
	IN Strasburg, wearing the French tri- 
color having been forbidden by the Germans, 
the French ladies walk the streets by threes,
one dressed in red, the next in white, and
a third in blue. Engravings of these groups 
of fair promenaders, passing puzzled and
angry Prussians, are conspicuous in the
windows of the French print shops.	
	MRS. Virginia T. Minor has brought suit
in St. Louis, against the registration officer,
for refusing to place her name on the voting
lists. Mrs. Minor is the wife of Francis
Minor, Clerk of the supreme Court of
Missouri, who is determined to carry the
case to the United States Supreme Court,
claiming that women are entitled to the right
of suffrage under the Fourteenth Amend-
ment.
	It is related that in Gaylordsville, in Fair-
field county, Connecticut, there resides an
old lady who is so deaf that a large bell
rung immediately by her ear, cannot be
heard by her. Despite this absolute deaf-
ness, she will go to church, listen to a
lengthy sermon and then return home and
be able to repeat the discourse word for
word. Her entire knowledge of the sermon
being gained from the motion of the speaker’s	
lips.


