F.R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
					——
			4th Ward Assembly Rooms,
					Salt Lake City, Feb. 1st, 1873.
	Faith being the subject to be considered
at the General Retrenchment meeting, after
the usual exercises of singing and prayer,
the reading and acceptance of the minutes
of the last meeting, and also the reading of
the minutes of meetings held in the 11
and 8th Wards, by the “Young Ladies’
Co-operative Retrenchment Associations,”
sister Emeline B. Wells read from the Book
of Doctrine and Covenants, the first lecture
on faith.
	Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball then
said if she did not understand something
about the subject of the chapter which had
just been read, she had been a very dull
student. Faith was an attribute of the Deity.
It was also an attribute of man, the highest
attribute, by which, earthly things were
linked with those above; it was indeed, the
most elevated attribute mortals could
possess. It should be cultivated; and the
way to cultivate it, was to think, to read, to
reason and to pray. It was possible to abuse
any attribute and to cause it to become
diseased by too constant and fervent use
being made of it. To be strong in body and
strong in mind it was requisite to keep all
the faculties correctly exercised. The dif-
ference between faith and excitement was
manifested by the workings of the true
spirit of the Lord and that of magnetism,
as shown by the power a strong Methodist
revivalist, could have over a congregation.
[new column]
Counselor Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith said
that in a prayer meeting in  Nauvoo, Presi-
dent Joseph Smith once told the people,
they did not yet know how to pray. She
wanted much to have him instruct them,
that she might learn the proper way. It
was not long until he did teach them to
pray in prayer circles, uniting their faith,
and thus increasing the strength and efficacy
of prayer.
	Counselor Mrs. Phebe Woodruff said it
was needful for us to seek knowledge out
of the best books and by talking to each
other. It had been read that by faith the
world was framed. She understood from
that that the Lord and His co-laborers had
gone to work, believing that if such and
such quantities of the different substances
were systematically arranged together,
the world and its inhabitants would be
—and exist; just as an adobie maker has
faith that by putting such and such materials
together and properly working the same, he
can make an adobie.
	Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young said that
they were all in school. When associated thus
together the best thoughts were brought
forth. As sister Kimball had said, it was
true that the mind might become diseased
by being too much exercised, even by pray-
ing too much and too anxiously. A bow if
always strung would soon lose its elasticity;
so also the mind would become weakened
by being too continually employed.
	Sister Rachel R. Grant said faith was a
gift of God, but that “Faith without works
was dead,” and should be carefully coupled
with good works at all times. It was a
matter of great importance that the young
be taught the principle of faith in its correct
form.
	Mrs. Mary E. Whitt said that it was often
seen that little children would have more
faith than those of more mature years. She
related an incident in which she was healed
by the administration of her little son,
whose perfect and pure faith in the power
and mercies of God had claimed for her the
blessings which he asked in childish sim-
plicity and trust.
	Remarks were made by other sisters,
and meeting adjourned for two weeks; the
subject of  "Faith” to be continued.
			        ——
			HEBRON, Jan. 22nd, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Society was reorganized the 19th of
October, 1872, with Mrs. Esther Pulsipher,
President; and Mrs. Sarah H. Crosby and
Mrs. Salinda Huntsman, Counselors. Our
Society is small, consisting of nineteen
members, and we live somewhat isolated,
being the most south-western settlement in
Utah. Notwithstanding, we desire to be
one with our sisters in our labors of love,
that thereby we may lighten the burdens of
our brethren in helping to roll forth the Lat-
ter-day work. Our means are limited as
yet, but with the blessing of our Heavenly
Father, we intend to increase them by ad-
ding our mites together, to assist the poor
and aid in gathering those who are in
bondage in distant lands, that they with us
may be made free; or to help in any other
wise purpose. At a meeting held last
October, a vote was taken to drop the word
“Female” from the name of our Society,
which was unanimously sustained. Your
very valuable paper is highly esteemed by
us, and is read with interest. We feel that
it will do much good in vindicating the
cause of the so-styled “Down-trodden wo-
men of Utah.” May Heaven bless the
Editor and all others who help to promote
the cause of truth,
		MRS. ANN PULSIPHER, Secretary.
[new column]
				LEHI, Utah County,
				  January 25th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONANT:—
	The Lehi Relief Society was organized
in October of 1868, with Mrs. Sarah C.
Evans, President; Martha P. Thomas and
Barbary A. Evans, Counselors; Rebecca
Standring, Secretary; and Mary Ann Davis,
Treasurer.
	During the four years, from October, 1868,
to October 1872, we received in donations
six hundred and twenty dollarsand seventy-
five cents; and disbursed to the poor four
hundred and thirty dollars. We own one
share—one hundred dollars—in the Provo
woolen factory; two shares—fifty dollars—
in the Co-operative store; have donated to
the P. E. Fund twenty-five dollars; to mis-
sionaries seventy-five dollars, and have a
balance on hand, in stock and other property,
of one hundred and twenty-three dollars.
We are still prospering, and still feel to
thank God that we are enabled to assist
somewhat in blessing His poor, and causing
them to rejoice.
	At a meeting held December 12th, 1872,
a unanimous vote was taken to drop the
word “Female” from the name of the
Society.		
	Wishing you much success in your noble
efforts to sustain the truth and increase
intelligence,
	  	   I am respectfully yours, 
		     REBECCA STANDRING Sec’y.
				—
	Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs Elizabeth How-
ard and Miss Louise L. Greene by special
invitation, were present at the monthly
meeting of the Relief Society of sugar House
Ward, held Wednesday, the 5th inst., at
the residence of President Mrs. Sarah Gibson.
The liberal donations brought in, the excel-
lent reports given by the Teachers, and the
devout sentiments expressed at that meet-
ing, as well as in the minutes of a former
one, forcibly evinced the satisfactory truth,
that the spirit of oneness and integrity
prevail to a very great extent among the
sisters of that Ward.	
				  —
	The Relief Society of Ogden held a
meeting and sewing circle, Jan. 30th, 1873.
A large number of the sisters met, and a
good spirit was manifested by all present;
with a great desire to do all they can to
alleviate the sufferings of those that are
needy. We have been making exertions to
provide those that came in last fall with
bedding suitable to the inclemency of the
season, so that none need suffer  I feel that
as sisters and helpers in the Kingdom of
God we have a great duty to perform, and if
we fail in that duty, we shall fail to receive
that great reward which awaits the dutiful
in the future. The sisters all seem anxious
to assist our President, J. S. Richards, who
sets an example worthy for all to follow, by
her words of kindness and deeds of charity.
