the beautiful Magazine, which is the strength of Relief Society. When I read the

October 1968 Magazine, I found the message of Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council

of the Twelve. It made me feel very grateful and proud to belong to a Church which

speaks of the gospel in its fulness. I know that you concern yourselves with the problems

of the young women of the Church. In my ward I have read Elder Lee's article

as many times as I have had the opportunity, and each time I read it I feel more joy

for this message has helped me to bring into activity serveral women who were not

attending Relief Society. Me\^ Zapata de Mejia, Mexico City, Mexico

In reading the fine issue— the February Magazine— this morning, I am moved by the

fine writing in the article "Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is," by Margery S. Cannon.

I also think the poem "Silence," by Christie Lund Coles is a fine one.

Bernice Ames, Los Angeles, California

I wish to express my appreciation of The Relief Society Magazine. I have been Magazine

representative for two and a half years. The sisters in the ward are happy to receive

their copies and read the serials and the lessons. There are five subscribers

making things from time to time. To me the Magazine is a book that is a help at all

times, and especially when I feel lonely or depressed, I pick up the Magazine and it

certainly gives me a lift. Edith Irene Houghton, Geelong, North Victoria, Australia

I loved the beautiful February frontispiece poem "Silence" by Christie Lund Coles, also

Pearle Olsen's "I Think of Beaches," so attractively set up.

Beulah H. Sadleir, Salt Lake City, Utah

I think I have read the Magazine since it was first published and I have always been

anxious for each copy to come. I enjoy the comments and letters in the From Near

and Far department. I noticed one letter from a woman in Indiana whom I knew

when she was not a member of the Church, and who is now a member, and a dear

former neighbor with the birthdays— Bertha A. Kleinman, ninety-one. Many readers

of the Magazine will recall her poetry and writings for many years back.

Emeline L. Lynds, Fontana, Caliiornia

I especially enjoy the pictures in the Magazine and the Notes From the Field. In the

February issue when I saw the Note from Juab Stake, there was a picture that seemed

to jump right off the page to greet me. At the time when I was growing up in Nephi,

Utah, Sister Cazier was president of the stake Relief Society, and we were her neighbors.

The first thing I read in the Magazine was the story "A Day for Diddle-Daddling,"

by Alice Morrey Bailey. It seemed just like a visit with my dear departed mother.

Callie's mother sounded just like my own. Florence S. Anderson, Kearns, Utah

It is a blessing for me to have the Magazine, for usually I am a long way from our

home ward as we move so often. I especially enjoy the Magazine and all the Relief

Society organizations I visit, for I never feel alone or as a stranger.

Leah Hancock Standiford, Taylor, Arizona

I was so interested in the article "Who Will Show Her How?" (about handicrafts) by

Dorothy F. Condry in the January Magazine. I feel that I am a kindred spirit. I like

the poetry of Gladys Hesser Burnham very much. She was a schoolmate of mine.

Mrs. Myron Hansen, Collinston, Utah

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111: Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 323