[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 347 | General Feature | Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out | ]
[Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out]

91 90 -Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Isabel Maude Tanner Somsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann May Arbon Snowville, Utah Mrs. Lyle Young Gates Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louise Kreutzer Guerich San Diego, California Mrs. Mary Andrus Hoagland Nampa, Idaho Mrs. Ella Georgiana Francisco Keele Provo, Utah Mrs. Marie Christiansen Murray Hot Springs, Arkansas Mrs. Ellen Dorthia Thunnison Norris — Loomis, California Mrs. Beatrice Maude Gaside Sellers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Belle Watson Anderson Kamas, Utah Mrs. Clara A. Argyle Woods Cross, Utah Mrs. Jane Pixton Bowers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ella Botts Brooks - Ottumwa, lowa Mrs. Anna Augusta Victoria Nielson Edwards Provo, Utah Mrs. Emma Flake Freeman Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Josephine Dorcas Meservy McKinlay Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. LaVina Robison Wadsworth Redden Morgan, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Jones Simpson Sait Lake City, Utah by John J Stewart The 'Iron Trail'? — now merely physical evidence of a monumental effort — but the pages of history reveal a drama of iron willed men who fought for and against it. This is the story of human misery worse than slave traffic, of financial corruption against the U. S. Government as well as the Mormons, of courage and men of foresight. ''No state nor people figure more prominantly in the story of the Pacific Railroad than do Utah and Utahns, particularly the Mormons." The Mormon Trail, the road to the Rockies, became the general route of the railroad. As early as 1849, Utah's delegate to Congress introduced a bill ''for construction of a railroad from the Atlantic to the Pacific."' This is the story of the continental link that was built, almost in spite of men and raging animosities. Once started, you'll want to finish this amazing story in one sitting. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me copies of THE IRON TRAIL TO THE GOLDEN SPIKE Meme Cost$ I enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account (1) Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. May R. S. Mag. 69 Put Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah the magic of Sugarplum Land Suggests this simply delicious dessert for family raves FLUFFY COCOA CAKE 1 cup U and I Y2 cup hot water dry ingredients to creamed mixture. SUGAR 1% cup shortening 1 teaspoon soda 1 egg 2 cup cocoa 1% cups flour Stir in buttermilk. Add another % dry 4 teaspoon salt ingredients, then water-cocoa mixture, 3% cup buttermilk ending with remainder of dry ingredients. Avoid overbeating. Bake in greased and Cream sugar with shortening and floured 9-inch-square pan at 350° F for egg; dissolve cocoa in hot water; set 40 minutes. Serve with whipped cream aside to cool; sift flour, soda and flavored with a dash of cinnamon and salt together. Combine 4 of sifted sweetened with U and I powdered sugar. UL Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and I SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. 5