[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 363 | General Feature | Tree of Magic | Betty Mazzacano]
[Tree of Magic Betty Mazzacano]

—Grace Diane Jessen 363 \ ll > telah ( Mer, \ Emily T. Wilkerson rf f J é, ™ _ ~ Pat oe Pa —™ a. ' f. A - a* Mothers are many things: They are the sweethearts of fathers. They are comforting arms for tiny babies. They are nurses for all the family. They are counselors for growing children. They are words of encouragement when there is an obstacle to overcome. They are aids to all the teachers that children have. Mothers are people who never need anything for themselves if their children are in need. A mother is a person who knows the ache in her heart but sends her children into the world with a smile on her face and words of confidence from her heart. A mother knows the great good that is deep in the hearts of her children. A mother prays for her loved ones. A mother's joy is in the righteousness of her children. A mother's courage is in her faith in God. A mother feels the responsibility of her children, for she realizes they are the children of God, and she is aware of the need for their good training. A mother is grateful for the planned lessons given in the different auxiliaries of the Church, for she knows they are inspired helps for her in training the precious spirits entrusted to her by the Lord. A mother is that person who becomes that wonderful grandmother. We are truly grateful to the Lord for his great generosity when he gave us mothers. Dtograph by Dorothy J. Roberts els: Sharon Morgan Berrett, Mother, and Melissa Morgan, child. 365 UWI Uraperies Edythe K. Watson, Member General Board of Relief Society Photography by Dorothy J. Roberts These beautiful curtains displayed by Mary Frances Watson, were purchased in Dusseldorf, Germany, and are typical of the many lovely varieties seen throughout that country. They give the windows a warm yet luxurious effect. M@ It all started with fourteen and a half yards of pretty pink and white chintz drapery fabric purchased from a sale table for only fifty cents a yard. The material was an excellent quality and was reduced to one-fourth its original cost. Happily it provided the basis for a family project which put excitement in the air for days and gave lasting satisfaction and enjoyment to every family member for a job well done. The results were a lovely and attractive bedroom for our five-year-old granddaughter Jill. The drapery fabric inspired my daughter and me to make our first pleated draperies. I had made many sets of curtains and draperies for my kitchen, bathrooms, and bedrooms over the years, but they had always been either the shirred ruffly kind or simple tailored ones with a conventional heading. To 366 make pleated drapes was something quite different. Their making proved to be fun and quite easy to do. Since then I have made draw draperies for my kitchen windows and curtained and draped my bedroom windows. My curtains were especially interesting to work with since I had purchased them in Germany and German decorating methods are quite different from the American ways. It is a beautiful and interesting sight to ride through the towns and cities of Europe and observe the varieties of window treatment. Every country has its own distinctive and charming style which seems to identify with the personalities and the people of that country. I was intrigued with the beautiful curtained windows of the German homes. They always seemed to look fresh and inviting.