[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 378 | General Feature | Recipe for Pavlova Patricia | R. Watkins]
appearance of the ballet skirts Pavlova wore during her career as a famous dancer. 376 PAVLOVA 4 egg whites I a pinch of salt 1 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Cornstarch V, tsp. Vinegar or lemon juice Suggested fillings: Strawberries and whipped cream; fruit salad; lemon filling. Add salt to the egg white. Beat until a knife cut through the mixture comes out clean. Gradually add sugar, beating continually until mixture is very stiff and the sugar is well beaten in. Fold in cornstarch and vinegar. Pour into an 8-inch round cake pan which has been greased lightly and sprinkled with a little cornstarch. Make a slight depression in the center bringing the mixture a little higher at the sides. Bake for 1% hours at a temperature of 250° F. Cover with a piece of grease-proof paper if the meringue shell shows sings of browning on the top. Turn onto a wire rack and then immediately onto a serving plate. When meringue shell is cool, fill with choice of fillings suggested above. LEMON FILLING 3/7 c. Sugar ¥, tbsp. Grated lemon rind 1¥/, tsp. Cornstarch 3 tbsp. Lemon juice pinch of salt ¥/, tbsp. Butter ¥, c. Water Mix together sugar, cornstarch, salt, water, and: lemon juice. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until boiling. Add grated lemon rind, cook 1 minute, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and add butter. Serve Pavlova as a special dessert for buffet luncheons, bridal and baby showers, or as a treat for the family. Jessian Rhoton: SUMMER SALAD tI 1 medium-sized head lettuce, finely cut or shredded 13 oz. Crushed pineapple (undrained) I 1 c. Grated cheese (cheddar or long horn or your favorite variety) Y2 c. Shredded coconut nuts (optional) Combine all ingredients and serve without dressing. Any of the ingredients may be increased or decreased in amount to suit individual preferences. Serves eight. 377 Barbara G. Toomer @ What better way to start a friendship than to send a loaf of freshly baked bread to a new neighbor? A hot loaf of bread placed near the casserole destined for the house where the mother is ill would surely cheer the family. What husband wouldn't be thrilled to come home to the tantalizing odor of baking bread? In Minneapolis, there is a real estate broker who has bread baked in the oven of his homes the mornings of his "Open House" days. For all occasions, bread, hot, fresh, homemade bread is the answer. 378 "I'm too busy to bake bread," you say, "I have six children, two dogs, three cats, and a canary to separate. I can't afford the time to bake bread." Lady, you are the very one to whom baking bread should be more important than cleaning the living room. You see, baking bread is good for the baker as well as the eater. Do you have one half hour in the morning hours? Come, let us bake bread in this time.

[Recipe for Pavlova Patricia R. Watkins]

Get out your big fat cookbook and find a basic white bread recipe. Soak the yeast in water as directed (use either dry or moist yeast, both work beautifully). Remember that too hot water kills the little yeast people and you want them to grow, so give them baby-bottle temperature water. Collect the rest of the ingredients and place all except the flour in a big bowl. Easy, so far, isn't it? Make sure this mixture is warm, not hot, and feel free to use powdered milk in place of whole milk. Add your bubbly yeast mixture. Now put in about two to three cups of the flour and stir well. It looks like library paste, doesn't it? Never fear, just keep adding the flour until you can't stir in any more, then dump the whole conglomeration onto a clean breadboard or kitchen counter. Sprinkle about one-half cup flour over the dough and start pushing with the heel of your hand, then pull back the dough towards you with your fingertips. The dough is sticky, but keep adding flour and kneading it in, and the dough will smooth out. Do this for ten minutes. This push-pull motion is rhythmical and_ soothing. Think pleasant thoughts, and at the end of your ten minutes, you will feel relaxed and ready to face the world again. After the dough has_ been kneaded ten minutes, it will be Staff of Life smooth and have a satiny sheen. It also will be elastic and tend to return to its shape if you push it away. Place it in a large bowl or pan, cover it with a damp cloth, set it aside in a warm place (try a tray table set next to a wall heater) and let it alone. It will rise until "double in bulk." Usually, this takes about two hours. Plunge your fist into the dough and watch it deflate! Sort of mound up the dough, turn it over, and let it rise again. This time it will take a shorter amount of time, around one to one and one-half hours. If the recipe makes three loaves, cut the dough into three parts and roll each with your hands to fit into a greased bread pan. If you don't have bread bans, use small hunks of dough about the size of a plum, and place them side by side in a 9x15 greased pan. You could make hamburger buns by rolling out tangerine size balls to a flat pancake. Place these discs on a baking sheet and let them rise. Bake any of the above according to the recipe you are using. You can also save some of the dough, let it rise again, then tear of plum-size pieces and deep fat fry them. When light brown, remove, drain, and dip in sugar. My family calls them "spindles" and can eat a whole recipe at one sitting. This is a good Family Home Evening treat. Bread baking is fun, homey, simple, therapeutic, and you can do it yourself easily. SF 378 Chapter 7 Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, a young girl of twenty-four, has taken over the management of her family home following the death of her mother. She has three young brothers, and she finds it a great challenge to be responsible for them. Steve Rey, a long-time friend of the family, and Jim Long, whom she met on a trip to Houston, Texas, now a student in Utah, are competing for her attentions. M It was February, and winter seemed to have settled in the valley permanently. It had been dark and cold for more weeks than Jennifer cared to count. For her it was a time of unexplainable depression. She could not put her finger on any one thing being wrong, but for the first time in the entire six months that she had been responsible for the family, life seemed to be at a standstill. She had resumed her studies, and had been awarded a student teaching position in Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Springville. If she could attend the summer session, she would be graduated in August. The boys were behaving well and seemed well adjusted. There had been minor skirmishes and disagreements over trivial matters, but no serious disciplinary matters had arisen. Charles Miles seemed much more settled, and although his job required him to travel a great deal, he had taken an active part in home activities since the incident with Dave. Jennifer was saddened to note the lost, lonely look in his eyes, and his smile came not as readily as it once had, but he was making adjustments. Twice monthly he took a trip to Manti to do temple work, and seemed in much better spirits when he returned from such trips, yet nothing could ease his terrible