[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 376 | General Feature | Lost Forever— One Expression of Love E. | Grace Stanford]
Rothe 38 LOST Forever— One Expression of Love E. Grace Stanford High Level, Alberta, Canada m My nine-year-old son was all big-eyed and enthusiastic! With the importance reserved by nine-year-olds, I was being informed of the forthcoming school track meet and his schedule for Little League ball. My mind, for a few fleeting seconds, withdrew from his sports résumé, and spanned a great desire to open my arms and say, "Come here, son, and give me a big hug!" I resisted for a fleeting second and this great surge of love subsided to normalcy. Now I have a small tugging void where happiness should be. Now I know that I let slip by, forever, one opportunity for my son and me to strengthen and declare our love in an impromptu happy embrace. Children need this affirmation of love from parents. Then will they know for a surety that their parents do love them! This knowledge would be their anchor and buoy during youth's turbulent storms—their comfort and strength when young heartbreaks bring fear and anguish into their lives. This knowledge would enlarge a child's own capacity for love. How often, in times of trouble and sorrow, parents long to reach out and closely commune with their older or even married children! How often the children will not let the parents draw near! Could it not be that in the early years these parents failed to fulfill an impulse visibly to express their love? That these children who are, in reality, cherished, do not realize how deep is the concern of their father and mother? Parents and friends also need this spontaneous declaration of our affection. These spiritual promptings to display our love toward parents, children, and our fellow men are of a Godlike quality and may take many forms. There are many urges to run over to a new neighbor with a batch of cookies fresh out of the oven, the nudging desire to tell a friend how lovely she looks today, the feeling that you want to go and help Jim put a few boards on that garage he is trying to build alone, the moment when you want to say to a teacher, "I enjoyed and was impressed by your lesson today," the word of congratulation you meant to send to an acquaintance—the impulse to tell your husband how proud you are of his achievements, whether great or small. 374 Lost Forever—One Expression of Love If we suppress these divine emotions too often they cease to come to us. Our lives become drab and days go by without meaning. Suddenly, one day, we wonder what we have accomplished that was worthwhile in our lives. On our last picnic, the little children came running to me with their hands clutched full of wilting crocuses, and their faces beaming. Their token of love deposited, they rushed off to climb hills again. These wonderful experiences need last only moments. I have a dear friend who, occasionally, hands me a brown paper bag. Inside I have found everything from a loaf of home-baked bread to a pair of exquisite meticulously hand crocheted doilies. Today in the mail, I received a small parcel from one of my sisters, sent first class mail. Inside was a pair of dainty, cool summer slippers covered with enchanting beaded flowers. There was no special occasion, no special reason. It was one of those glorious extempore expressions of love, and, because it was not suppressed, her life and mine have been enriched!