[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 373 | Poem | When Mothers Sing | Olga Milius]
WHEN MOTHERS SING When mothers sing the home is sweet, And peace and joy abound; Troubles seem to fade away Before this happy sound. Children smile, and baby coos, And Dad forgets his care; Faith and hope and harmony Dwell securely there. Singing Mothers everywhere, Patient, tender, strong, Send to heaven this daily prayer— Lord, make my life a song. —Olga Milius Sea, - ° eS = MY TAPESTRY The tapestry of life I stitch Is never quite as perfect as it might be; I plan it carefully, Choosing the theme and materials, And yet, when the time of working And blending has arrived, I sometimes find myself inadequate. The task which once seemed easy May on occasions of sorrow or stress Be almost too difficult to finish; And yet, when I view it at its completion, I hope that the over-all picture Is a pleasing blend, With the mistakes of the first stitches, Corrected and almost unnoticeable In the perfection of the others. —Ruth G. Rothe 38 LOST Forever— One Expression of Love E. Grace Stanford High Level, Alberta, Canada m My nine-year-old son was all big-eyed and enthusiastic! With the importance reserved by nine-year-olds, I was being informed of the forthcoming school track meet and his schedule for Little League ball. My mind, for a few fleeting seconds, withdrew from his sports résumé, and spanned a great desire to open my arms and say, "Come here, son, and give me a big hug!" I resisted for a fleeting second and this great surge of love subsided to normalcy. Now I have a small tugging void where happiness should be. Now I know that I let slip by, forever, one opportunity for my son and me to strengthen and declare our love in an impromptu happy embrace. Children need this affirmation of love from parents. Then will they know for a surety that their parents do love them! This knowledge would be their anchor and buoy during youth's turbulent storms—their comfort and strength when young heartbreaks bring fear and anguish into their lives. This knowledge would enlarge a child