[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 344 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
addy's vocabulary was "exaggerated imagination,' and he always used it when he talked about us. Usually he would end up saying, "Someday, something will happen that will bring them down to earth hard, and it's going to hurt." Grandma's answer was always the same, "Pity the day." So we were expecting that piteous day, although we had no idea what was supposed to happen. The next day was Saturday, and Daddy and Grandma were in the garden tying up rose runners. Susan and I hurried through our work, for usually on Saturdays we could go upon the hill to play. We had built a fairyland there. With old spoons we had dug out a king's castle and a witches' den in the bank of a dry gully. We had a sardine can for a chariot and white bones for horses. We had gathered hollyhocks and were sticking black currant heads on them and piling them into a shoe box. "Why didn't you leave stems on your flowers? How can you arrange them this way?" Daddy asked. Susan spoke up. "They aren't flowers." The muscles in Daddy's jaw worked. "They are hollyhocks, and hollyhocks are flowers." I could feel a lecture coming on so I hurried to explain. "We know they are hollyhocks, Daddy, but when you put heads on them, they become people, like this ruffy pink one. She is a fairy princess, don't you see?" "No, I don't see." "Now may we go to fairyland?" I asked. Daddy's eyes shot "Where?" he demanded. Ducking my head, I mumbled, "We want to go upon the hill." "Well, why didn't you say so? A hill is a hill, understand?" "Yes, Daddy. May we go now?" "All right. But don't stay too long." With our digging spoons and shoe box, we scurried out the gate. On the way up the hill we gathered sego lilies and Indian paintbrush for the fairy garden sparks. A Piteous Day which had to be planted fresh each time we came to play. Clearing away the old dried flowers, we poked the fresh stems down to where the sand was damp. Just then a_ lizzard streaked past. "A fire-eating dragon!" Susan shrieked and shot after him. Tripping, she sprawled to her hands and knees, then froze to the spot. Her eyes and mouth open wide, and she stared as if in a trance. "Look!" she whispered, pointing her finger. I squatted beside her and looked. "All I can see is an old chicken egg." She came unfrozen. "It isn't a chicken egg. What chicken would come up here to lay?" "Then, what is it?" I asked. "It is the dragon. He turned himself into an egg just as I fell. I saw him." I crawled over to examine the egg. It was innocent looking enough, lying there on the bare earth. I poked around the bush with a stick. "See, here's a hole. Susan, a snake could have laid the egg." "But a snake didn't. This is a bewitched egg. Inside is a dragon which is really under a witch's spell. When we break the egg, the spell will be broken and the prince will be set free." "When we break the egg, little snakes might run up our arms and legs." I shuddered. She gave me a look of contempt. Dumping the hollyhocks, she stuffed the shoe box with chaparral and cradled the egg inside. "Come on, let's go." "But we came to play," I protested. "Our people will be ruined." 

389 May 1969

 "So what! There are plenty more hollyhocks. Don't you see? This is an important happening." Then she chanted, "We'll set the prince free, under the mulberry tree!" She clutched the box to her and we began our descent. Suddenly she stopped. "Listen," she whispered. "I hear something inside."' She held the box for me to listen. There was the scratching sound of chaparral twigs against the lid. "Something is running around inside," I said. Scornfully she said, "No prince would run around in a shoe box." "All right then, what do you think you can hear?" She put her ear to the box. "It is the prince, sending us a message in code.... He is promising us a reward for setting him free!" y NT the way home we speculated on what the reward would be. The possibilities grew more exciting with each step of the way. We ran the last stretch, and were out of breath when we reached our yard. "Land sakes!" Grandma exclaimed. "Back already?" Then scrutinizing us she asked, "What happened? You look as if you'd seen an apparition." We could not speak for our throats were dry. Susan thrust the box at Grandma, who lifted the lid. Daddy put down his shovel and looked. "Well, what do you know! Old Speckle is laying again." "Oh, no!" Susan __panted, "Speck didn't lay this egg. This isn't a laid egg." 340 "Of course it is. You can see it for yourself." "No, Daddy. I saw a dragon change himself into this egg." Daddy looked sternly at us. "Young ladies! Bring that box here and sit down. We're going to have a talk. You come along, too, Grandma." He and Grandma took the lawn chairs and Susan and I sprawled on the grass. "Now," he said with the formality of a judge, "will you repeat that last remark, Susan?" "I saw a dragon change himself into this egg," she repeated solemnly. "Kathy, did you see _ the dragon?" he inquired of me. I nodded. "What did he look like?" "Something like a lizzard," I stammered. "Umm humm If we put this unlaid egg under Old Speckle, then we can hatch us a dragon." "Oh, no, Daddy, we mustn't do that!" Susan protested. "If we hatch it, then the prince would have to be a dragon forever. We have to break the spell!" Sternly Daddy said, "Very well! We will break the spell now! In the first place you saw a lizzard—not a dragon, mind you—upon the hill—and not in fairyland. Get that straight?" The very air felt as brittle as shattering glass. Surely this was a piteous day! Then to our astonished ears came Grandma's laugh. "Tch, tch, tch," she chuckled. "The hill it is nowadays and not fairyland, when such a few short years ago it was the prairie where a small boy galloped on his stick horses chasing Injuns." Annoyed, Daddy said, "All right, all right.... Now where were we? Oh, yes, the egg. Where did you get it?" As Susan told her story, Daddy's brows were drawn with perplexity. "Now what do we do?" he inquired. "It is simple. I will need a silver knife. Kathy and I will sit under the mulberry tree and you and Grandma can watch. We'll all say 'abbracadabra,' then I'll whack the egg. The shell will crack and the prince will step out. He'll be big instantly and stand and bow before us and kiss our hands and ask us which we'd rather have, a golden carriage or a helicopter and we'll take the helicopter." "T see,' Daddy said. "Go fetch the silver knife at once." As Susan flew to the house, Daddy turned to Grandma and said, "Mark my word, those two are due for a fall. This fabricated, (_S A Piteous Day imaginary, ridiculous world of theirs is about to tumble before our eyes. They are going to be hurt. Now you will understand the harm an exaggerated imagination can do." This was going to be more than a piteous day. This was doomsday! Hopefully I scanned Grandma's face, searching for a grain of comfort. Sadly she shook her head. "It is a pity children are forced to grow up so soon." How baffling! Were we going suddenly to become big like the bewitched prince was supposed to do? Susan returned with the knife and everyone did as she said. We had to say "abbracadabra" three times before it suited her. Then she whacked the egg. The world stopped turning and the sun stood still. My spine tingled and goose pimples popped out all over me. If a volcano should have erupted behind me, I uld not have taken my eyes off he egg. Susan held it away from ber and a firm yellow yolk, surounded by clear white, plopped /-onto the grass. No one spoke. She raised up on her hands and knees, leaning over the magical thing. "Wow!" she exclaimed. "Wow! ' Take a look! A blob of gold in a puddle of crystal!" Then she sat back on her heels and laughed. Relieved, I rolled with laughter on the grass. Drooping like yesterday's sego lily, Daddy slumped down on a stump. With elbows on knees and chin in hands he studied us. Grandma pulled her low weeding stool next to him and sat down. With ill-concealed merriment, 

341 May 1969

 she said, "Well, son, they took quite a tumble, didn't they! They sure act hurt." Daddy was the one who seemed to be hurt, but he recovered. Clapping his hands with a loud pop, he demanded, "You little vixens, come here!" Laughing we scrambled to his side. "What are you laughing for? Where is your prince?" he scowled. "He left his gift and scrammed," Susan said. "Some gift! A raw egg. Where's the helicopter? Why aren't you crying miserably with disappointment?" "Daddy, you're so funny," I giggled. '""We were only pretending, don't you see?" "It was mighty real pretending," he insisted. "Good pretending always is," I explained. He spread his hands in a wide, helpless gesture, and we flung ourselves into his arms. "Tell me, kittens," he said tenderly, "how can you conjure up something so real and then let it vanish without being sad? Don't you feel like crying?" Susan snuggled her cheek against his. "No, Daddy. You see, grownups. Pretend, _ too. When Grandma calls us 'punkin' she doesn't cry because she can't make pie out of us. Just now you called us 'kittens.' Do you want to cry because we aren't covered with fur and have whiskers? Pretending is fun. Your pretending makes us feel soft and cuddly and loved." Daddy burst into a_ hearty laugh. Grandma laughed, too. "T love piteous days," I exclaimed. "They are fun." Jovially Daddy said, "This is a happening, little kitten."

—Joyce Trimmer Glennoy, Australia ages 342 i, Ae » Woman's f. Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was honored February 26, 1969, by the Women's Council of the Latter-day Saints Student Association (LDSSA) of the University of Utah. The program was held in the Tabernacle, and women of college age were invited to attend. One of President McKay's poems, set to music, was sung by the choir and President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency, Bishop Robert L. Simpson of the Presiding Bishopric, and Elder Marion D. Hanks, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, gave inspiring addresses regarding the glorious role of women in the Church and in the world. A tribute to Sister McKay was given by her daughter, Emma Rae McKay Ashton. Chairman for the occasion was Joan Carlston, President, LDSSA. Louise Bogan, eminent American poet, has been elected to membership in the American Academy of Arts and Letters to fill the chair left vacant by the death of Carl Sandburg. Her induction will take place in May 1969. Princess Irene of Greece, sister of King Constantine, is a renowned concert pianist. A student of Gina Bachauer, distinguished Greek pianist, her Royal Highness Princess Irene has been declared ''a dedicated, serious musician, who plays in a fully professional manner.'' She has made several tours of the United States, and in February 1969, she and Madame Bachauer performed with the Utah Symphony Orchestra under the baton of Maurice Abravanel. Sewing as a hobby and as a household art is increasing in importance, several recent surveys among high school girls have revealed. Sewing, it was found, helps the girls to have more variety in their clothing, helps them to stretch their clothing budgets, and gives them a rewarding creative outlet. Golda Meir has been appointed Prime Minister of Israel, the fourth Prime Minister to serve since Israel became a nation in May 1948, and the first woman to serve her country in this capacity. Only three other women have received this honor: Mrs. Solomon Bandaranaike, Prime Minister of Ceylon (1960-65), Indira Gandhi, who became Prime Minister of India in 1966 and is still serving; and Ana Pauker of Romania. Ann Woodbury Hafen, Latter-day Saint poet, literary critic, and distinguished historian, is author of Campfire Frontier (Old West Publishing Company, Denver, Colorado), historical poems and stories of the Old West. Recognized for many years as co-historian and able helpmate of her well-known husband, Dr. LeRoy R. Hafen, she has achieved many honors for her own writing of notable poetry and biographies. She is a former president of the Utah State Poetry Society and is greatly appreciated for her encouragement of poets and poetry. Campfire Frontier contains seventeen biographical sketches, vividly narrated, and the second section offers a selection of outstanding poems.

343 EDITORIAL/A Blessing For The Hemispheres w In a time of the changing of seasons, when the hours of sunlight are altered, when the northern hemisphere receives increasing length of days, and the southern hermisphere turns to a longer night, the women of Relief Society look forward to a new program for the coming months and summarize and review the developments of the time which has passed. Then again, time changes and summer is long and beautiful in the southern lands and winter comes to the north. Also, in those regions of lasting summer, where less evidence of varying weather is apparent, the work of Relief Society continues in its learning, serving, sharing. Its companionship and compassion continue. It is a significant thought for all of us to realize the many and farreaching homelands of the sisters—the towns and the cities and the rural areas where the sisters live and care for their homes and their families and devote themselves to the equally far-reaching program of Relief Society. The sisters do not regard the wide oceans, the skyward mountain ranges, and the great deserts as dividing the womanhood of the world. They think of the green valleys, the long rivers, the uplands and the lowlands of the many nations as the native lands, the homes of the world-wide sisterhood. There is no ocean, no mountain range, no expanse of desert or prairie—no barrier of land or sea that can divide the sisters of Relief Society, for they are the same in ideals and aspirations—the same in faith and devotion, the same in their desires to follow the teachings of the gospel, and to be a pattern and example of womanhood to the world. It was for all of us in every land that the Prophet Joseph Smith, in 1842, revealed the pattern and declared in long treasured words the purpose of an organization for the sisters—the first auxiliary in the Church. He addressed the women assembled before him and said that their desire for organization was ''accepted of the Lord I will organize the sisters under the priesthood,'' he said, ''after a pattern of the priesthood."" And later the Prophet declared that the Church was never perfectly organized ''until the women were thus organized."' In our time and in our place, we rejoice in the continued purpose Volume 57 May 1969° Number 5 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Evon W. Peterson, SecretaryTreasurer 344 and pattern. Inthenorthern hemisphere and inthe southern hemisphere, upon the continents and the islands of the sea, in unity, and in the beauty of companionship and service, the sisters are organized in prophetic design. That design is basically the same after many years—after more than 127 years—the glorious pattern and purpose remain the same. There is the same remembrance of duty, the same sincerity, the same deep compassion. The Society remembers its origin and destiny—still the same as at that time when Emma Smith, the first president, arose ''to make appropriate remarks on the subject of the Society—its duties to others also its relative duties to each other... That each member should be ambitious to do good."' It is the same as on that day when Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, illustrated the desires of the sisters: '' we must cherish one another, watch over one another, comfort one another."' So it is in all the lands and in all the nations where the sisterhood has been organized. The gospel light is a great radiance for spiritual living. The visiting teachers go forth, as in times past, with their enduring messages of faith and consolation. The sisters in their handicrafts and in their homemaking observe a heritage of usefulness and beauty in lasting color and design. In Relief Society they find the ways and the means of achieving cultural refinement in literature and art and music. They learn the ways of uplifting and helpful social relationships. The program and the spirit of Relief Society open the door to a full measure of the attributes of noble womanhood. The voices lifted in praise of the gospel are as beautiful in a village on the slopes of the Andes as they are in a far northern land where the icefields rise above the meeting place. The far-reaching echoes of rejoicing in song reach to all the sisterhood and join them in spiritual communion. In a saying of olden time it has been written: ''Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad... The multitude of isles be glad.'' (Psalms 96:11; 97:1.) The world-wide sisterhood continues its loving service and still is greatly blessed in time and place. _VPC GENERAL BOARD: Elna P. Haymond Celestia J. Taylor. Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Anne R. Gledhill Myrtle R. Olson Anna B. Hart Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Edith S. Effiott Elsa T. Peterson Zola J. McGhie Lucille P. Peterson Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Blanche B. Stoddard Jennie R. Scott Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aleine M. Young Alice L. Wilkinson Marjorie C. Pingree Reba C. Aldous Alberta H. Christensen Irene W. Buehner Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Mildred B. Eyring Irene C. Lloyd Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Edith P. Backman Hazel S. Love Ellen N. Barnes Mayola R. Miltenberger Winniefred S. Manwaring Fawn H. Sharp Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock 345 MAYTIME WORDS FOR MOTHERS A MOTHER'S PRAYER Blessed child, With hands in mine, Hands I must guide Throughout all time. Blessed child, On bended knee, My guidance must reach Through eternity. Blessed child, Each word I say, Shall be uttered again By your lips today. Blessed Father, Wilt thou hear me? That my words, my hands, My bended knee, Might guide this child Back to thee? —Oneita B. Sumsion TO A GRANDSON You are the son I never had, Blue-eyed and blonde of hair; You are the substance of a dream, So fair, so fair. You are the impertinent smile, The mischievous, child act; The love of outstretched arms, You are the living fact Of what we hoped, so long, could be; You are so gentle, wise. Small boy, you are my heart Stretched twice its size.