[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 352 | Fiction | The Hardest Work Sally | Ann Roehl]
[The Hardest Work Sally Ann Roehl]

orkings of that particular marvel of man's invention. A few seconds later and the door of her flat was before her. It was clean and bright with pale distempered walls, tiled floors, and large picture windows, not quite so bad as Emily May had imagined, but she felt out of place within the walls of this building. For awhile she stood contemplating the bareness of it all, her feelings surging inside of her, feelings of despondency and loneliness, then, holding on to the wooden surround of the fireplace, she eased herself to the floor and poured out her heart to the only one who could possibly understand. "Dear God, why couldn't things 'And When Ye Shall Receive These Things' have been left as they were, just for a little while longer. I would so much have liked to spend my last days in the home that John and I made together. We had so many happy times there, a sad time, too, when the news came that our two sons had been killed in the war. All my life has been wrapped up in that cottage, and now it is to be pulled down. Why? Oh, why?" Emily May knelt silently with her head bowed, the sun shining on her diminutive body. The time slipped by, and she still knelt there. Somehow she was at peace and felt near to her Heavenly Father. Her thoughts sped back over the years, and she could hear the words that her father had spoken so long ago, when she failed to win a ribbon for pony events in the local contest. "Now, Emily May, don't get so upset. Things don't always go the way you expect or want them. Sometimes we fail in things when we have tried our best, and sometimes it seems that we have troubles heaped upon us, but the Lord works in a strange way, and most of these things turn out for the best." Yes, thought Emily May, who am I to expect the world to revolve around me, and anyway, as Father used to say, the Lord sometimes works in a strange way, and I may yet see the reason for things happening as they have. With these thoughts, she began to rise from her knees. It was a very painful process after kneeling in one position for so long, but she was compensated by the peace that now filled her mind. 

363 May 1969

 It was one week later that Emily May moved her belongings to her new home, and it was while she was standing in the corridor, near the lift, supervising the men unloading the furniture, that she first saw the two young men. They had come from one of the flats further along the passageway, and a young lady, who must have been the occupant, was seeing them to the lift. It was she who spoke. "Oh, are you just moving in? I expect you could do with some help." "Well, yes," said Emily May, dubiously. "Perhaps we could help you get your furniture in place." It was the taller of the two young men who spoke, and Emily noticed that he had an American accent. "Well, I was worrying about how to get everything straight, and my arthritis does make things difficult. Yes, I would be very pleased with your help." She was quite surprised at herself, inviting complete strangers into her home, but they had such open faces, and she really did need the help. In no time at all things were beginning to look tidier, although still rather bare. The helpers were wonderful company and kept her laughing the whole time. As she was putting out the photographs of her late husband and sons, she went to call one of the young men from the other room and realized that she didn't know his name. "Do you realize, I don't know your names?" At this invitation they began telling her about themselves. 354 First, the taller of the two men spoke, and it seemed that his name was Elder Jameson and he came from Salt Lake City to England on a two-year mission for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The second man's name was Elder Thomas from California. His parents had gone there from Wales when he was a baby, and he was also a missionary. The lady from along the corridor was Sister Jean Tanner, and she was also a member of the same Church. The elders had just been visiting her when they all met. Emily May was a little stunned for awhile, when she realized that they were "Mormons." All those stories that she had heard about them came pouring into her mind, but somehow she couldn't feel any fear in the company of these young people, but she didn't particularly want to get involved with such a strange set of people, either. Elder Thomas spoke, "Would you like to know more about the Church, Mrs. Cross?" "Oh, no, no. I'm too old to change my ways now, but thank you for all your help, it really has been appreciated." They didn't press her any further, but just continued to clean and tidy up as if nothing had happened, and when finished they left with a cheerful goodbye. It wasn't until about an hour later that Emily May found the book with the pamphlets inside. She was about to take them down to Jean Turner, when she noticed the words written inside the cover. Dear Sister Cross: If you take time to read these things I'm sure you will find them interesting and if you pray about them, you will know of their truth. Elders Thomas & Jameson She banged the books down onto the sideboard as if they were red hot and refused to take any further notice of them. Sometimes, though, when dusting the pictures of her family, she would become tempted to take just a little look, but not anything more than that. Somehow they bothered her, so she decided to tuck them away in a cupboard, however, they still preyed on her mind. Sometimes, at night, before going to sleep she would think about the young men who had helped her and the books that they left that were hidden away in the linen cupboard, but she would declare to herself that they probably knew no more "'And When Ye Shall Receive These Things"' than any other religion and had no more to offer. Emily May had always been a devout church goer in her youth, and it was at church that she had met her husband. They had been married in the little village church not far from her old home, and it was in the same building that their two sons had been christened, John first, named after his father, of course, and David next, named after his grandfather. They were beautiful babies and grew into fine young men. At the outbreak of war, when both of them had volunteered, she often thought of what life would be if one of them was lost, but little envisaged losing both. Those were sad days for Emily May and John. They naturally turned to God and their church for comfort. In their prayers together they found peace in God, but there were many questions that needed answers, so it was to their local vicar that they went. He was a good man and did his best in giving them the little information he _ possessed about life after death, but he knew this was inadequate. His parting words had been, "I'm so sorry I can't be of more comfort to you. Sometimes I feel it would be wonderful to have someone on the earth who really knew all the answers, a prophet or something." After this Emily May and John went to church less frequently, until they stopped altogether, but they always kept up their prayers. Emily May awoke to a beautiful bright morning. Her first thoughts were happy and at 

355 May 1969

 peace, for she had been dreaming about John. He had been sitting at a large desk, bent over his work, and she had crept up behind him and kissed the back of his neck. He had turned, smiling, and she noticed what he was doing— reading a book, the same book that was tucked away in her cupboard. Just coincidence, she said to herself. It must have been a culmination of thoughts. Jean Turner had continued to call on Emily May to make sure that she was all right and to see if she needed anything, and today was one of her usual days for calling. "Hello, Mrs. Cross, is there anything I can help you with this morning?" "Thank you, my dear, for calling. There are one or two things that I need from the shop, come in a minute." As Emily May sorted out her money and wrote down the things that were needed, she took note of Jean's face. Somehow it seemed even more happy and radiant than usual. "You're looking very happy today, Jean my dar, something special happened? "Oh, I should say so," her voice bubbled with excitement. "My husband and I were married for time and all eternity yesterday and I'm still walking on air." Emily May stopped what she was doing and turned a puzzled face towards Jean, and she, realizing that what she was talking about was all new to Emily May, began to explain. It was much later that Jean eventually left for the shops. Emily May was sitting in her favorite chair, looking fondly on the faces of her husband and sons, and in her mind, going over the events of the last few weeks. Could it be that she now had the reason why, the answer to her prayers? Were Jean and those two young elders the reason she had come to this new home? A few minutes later, when Jean came back from the shops, she found Emily May with her gray head bent intently over a book, a book that began: "I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents." aa A TRIBUTE I'm just a visiting teacher, I heard a sister say, But, oh, how golden was the key that she had used today. It had opened doors of comfort and doors of hopefulness For lonely hearts and troubled minds and brought them happiness. A sweetly-worded message she had humbly left inside, And every home she visited seemed sweetly purified. No idle words of gossip, no ugly thought was left to scar— No wonder God was pleased as he watched her from afar. So she is ''just a visiting teacher,'' how little does she know How valuable, how welcome her monthly visits grow! As she turns the key of service that fits in every lock Of every precious sister whom she visits on her block.