Retirements from the General Board Iv is with a sense of loss that the General Board announces the retirement from the General Board oi Charlotte A. Larsen, Pearle M. Olsen, LaPriel S. Bunker, and Hazel S. Cannon. Charlotte A. Larsen has served on the Board since March 25, 1953. Throughout her eleven years of service she has performed her every assignment faithfully and with a high degree of excellence. Her appointments have been extensive and varied. She has served on all but one of the major educational committees, and freely given of her artistic talents for socials and conference presentations. She has given outstanding service in community assignments, as well as writing a series of Relief Society lessons on "Safety in the Home" as the result of her association with the Salt Lake Safety Council. For the last four years she has represented Relief Society on the Heart Association. Every request that has been made of Sister Larsen has been carried out well through her artistic endowments and capable leadership abilities. She has honored her calling in every way. Pearle M. Olsen was appointed to the General Board on February 19, 1958. She has assumed the responsibilities that have been given her wholeheartedly and with a meticulous care for detail. Her attention has especially been directed to the visiting teacher work and literature. Her love of the beautiful aided her in the service she gave to the work meeting program. For the past six years she has represented Relief Society on the Safety Council. She has manifested a deep love for Relief Society and has carried out every assignment with a sweet spirit and with great devotion to the work. Every talent with which the Lord has blessed her has been placed by Sister Olsen at the service of Relief Society. LaPriel S. Bunker was appointed to the General Board on June 1, 1960, and given a leave of absence when, soon after her appointment, her husband was called as mission president of the California Mission. On his release Sister Bunker again devoted herself to her calling on the General Board, until the present time when she is released to join her husband in his call as a counselor in the Salt Lake Temple Presidency. Sister Bunker had had a rich experience in Rehef Society work prior to her call to the General Board as both stake and mission Relief Society president. Her service on the Board includes a chairmanship of the work meeting committee, service on the literature committee, and as a member of the quarterly conference committee. Her love for Relief Society has been clearly manifest over the years. Hazel S. Cannon was called to the General Board on February 1, 1962. She came filled with enthusiasm and a desire to do her best. She has entered zealously into every call which has been made upon her and devoted her outstanding capabilities to a successful completion of them. She is a school teacher by profession and her teaching ability has been at the disposal of the General Board in its teaching program. She has been given special work in the secretarial field and has valued her calling at all times. The General Board and the sisters throughout the Church whom these four sisters have served extend to them their love and appreciation with the prayer that their future callings may be joyous to them.