The Centsless Ghost Has Gone Genevieve Van Wagenen gether, a gaudy, ill-fitting ''something-or-other" that will be worn once or twice, then discarded. It is not only a big expense but a real extravagance, if you have several children to outfit. There is one way to beat this extravagance — to cut expenses, yet let your child be the ''Grandest Goblin" in the Halloween parade, and, at the same time, add glamor to your child's life and wardrobe. One clever mother has been doing it for years. Her children love it — they wouldn't have it any other way. With a little ingenuity and thoughtful planning she has heaped compliments upon her children, Teachers and classmates alike have appreciated her unique and beautiful costumes. Costumes, did I say? Yes, but costumes just for today — tomorrow they are practical items of clothing. Some are glamor articles to spice up the wardrobe, to add comfort, enjoyment, and cultural development. Expensive? Not at all. According to this mother's own words, "I just can't throw money away on costumes. I came of pioneer stock, my money must work for me. Thrift is my middle name." For seventy-five cents she bought a remnant of heavy royal blue satin. There was sufficient yardage to make a pair of exotic, well-fitting pajama bottoms for nine-year-old Marilyn. Another remnant, a soft yellow satin with tiny rose and royal blue forgetme-nots scattered here and there, was just perfect for a "coolie coat" to go with the pajama bottoms. From the royal blue satin scraps, she made bias cording from which she fashioned "frogs" to fasten to the front of the "coolie coat'? And give a Chinese effect. Two full-bloom carnations made of paper were fastened over the ears. This completed the costume and transformed Marilyn into a beautiful little Chinese coolie maiden, and all for the humble price of $1.50. And the best part about it, Marilyn is still wearing the beautiful yellow and blue pajama outfit as a luxurious lounging ensemble. Christy, the little first grader, joined the Halloween parade in a darling Bo-Peep costume. Mother selected a gay flowered cotton print. She fashioned a tight fitting bodice, square neck, full gathered skirt, and perky ruffled sleeves. Bits of organdy and lace from the sewing box became an adorable little apron. Next, from some scraps, Mother made a wide black belt that graduated to points in front. This was laced together with a long black shoelace that tied in a bow at the waist. The children fashioned a staff for Bo-Peep, tied it with a large bow, and Christy went to school the happiest BoPeep you ever saw. When the parade was over, Christy had a lovely little dress for church and school. Sandy was a sprightly Jack Frost. She appeared in a jaunty, peaked cap of bright green corduroy and a matching one-piece play dress with zippered front, to which mother had sewed handfuls of gaily colored artificial autumn leaves. Bright red stockings and fancy pointed elf shoes made of black oilcloth, which were run up in. Five minutes on the machine, completed her costume. Sandy's costume cost less than two dollars, and when the fun was over and the leaves removed, Sandy had a warm and comfortable play dress to wear through the winter. This play dress was such a boon to the wardrobe, it cut down on the ironing, and was always ready to wear. Sandy and Mother enjoyed it so much, Mother used the same pattern the following year. Only this time she purchased a bright yellow-orange corduroy, for the play outfit. Sandy went dressed as Prince Pumpkin. A large cardboard pumpkin was fashioned into a crown. Small colorful paper pumpkins with bright green leaves were arranged in an attractive design and sewed on the play suit. You, too, can have this pleasure. So, mothers, put on your thinking caps and join the thrift parade. Thrill your youngsters with pretty costumes and lovely practical clothes.