COMPARATIVE BRITISH AND AMERICAN MEASURES FLOUR Where American cake recipes ask for a special cake flour, use the best quality white flour available—314 ozs. For every 4 oz. Specified. Graham flour: 100% wholewheat flour. LEAVENING AGENTS When following an American recipe: Either use 14% times the amount of baking powder specified in the recipe Or sprinkle the specified amount over the mixture before the last few strokes of mixing, then bake immediately. SUGARS In British recipes use castor (granulated) sugar except when another type is specified. The coarse-grained sugar used in most British recipes weighs more by volume than the finer sugar which is common in America. BRITISH AM TDmimAA! Icing sugar confectioner's sugar use black treacle molasses can be bought in this country or maple syrup "golden syrup' can be used. Soft moist brown sugar brown sugar Golden syrup can usually be substituted for corn syrup, sorghum, etc. Yeast one cake of compressed yeast=% oz. Of fresh yeast, or the equivalent of this in dried yeast. Gelatine: 1 envelope =% oz. Ordinary gelatine. MISCELLANEOUS MIXING A recipe calling for "two minutes beating" means by electrical mixer. By hand, 150 strokes are the equivalent of one minute in a mixer. SIZE OF TINS OR "PANS" These are standardized in America. Those in common use have the following measurements: Bread tin:—9 in. By 5 in. By 3 in. Deep square pan:—9 in. By 9 in. By 2 in. Deep oblong pan:—12 in. By 9 in. By 2 in. Deep round layer pan:—8 in. By 1% in. Deep or 9 in. By 2 in. Deep 8 oz. 1 cup sie No. 1 2 cups or 16 oz. CAN SIZE No. 2 2% cups or 20 oz. AMERICAN COOKERY TERMS AND THEIR BRITISH EQUIVALENTS BRITISH AMERICAN served with ice cream a la mode cheddar American cheese a scone biscuit roquefort blue cheese grill broil a soup, usually of fish, but may chowder be sweetcorn, mushroom, etc. Cornflour cornstarch a water biscuit cracker BRITISH meited butter semolina fine semolina there is no exact equivalent, but AMERICAN drawn butter farina farola graham crackers they are rather like crispbread or unsweetened digestive biscuits mince hulled and coarsely ground corn or other meal okra, which is used to thicken soup small meringues salty biscuit, covered with icing and nuts to grill or roast and serve all on a plank of wood an open tart fillet steak large loin chop rusk crumbs grind grits gumbo kisses marguerite plank pie tenderloin tenderloin of lamb zwieback crumbs