Recipes From Scotland Submitted by Kathleen S. Farnsworth Former President, Scottish Mission Relief Society CLOOTIE DUMPLING Phillippa Denard, President Dumfries Branch (Similar to Christmas Pudding, but is eaten the year round in Scotland.) 1 Ib. Self-rising flour (add 1 teaspoon baking powder per cup of plain flour) 4 oz. Shredded suet 1 Ib. Mixed fruit (dried) 2 oz. Mixed peel (sugared) 1 teaspoon mixed spices 1 teaspoon ginger 1 teaspoon cinnamon 766 Aa nm 2 naciiramante fannrnvir 4 cups self-rising flour % cup shredded suet 2 cups mixed fruit (dried) Ye cup mixed peel (sugared) RECIPES FROM SCOTLAND 1 Ib. Treacle (molasses) 1 cup treacle (molasses) 1 cup sugar (8 02.) 1 cup sugar about 1 cup milk (10 oz.) 1 cup milk, plus 2 oz. Mix all dry ingredients. Then mix in treacle. Mix in enough milk to make a soft dough (about like biscuits). Have a large, clean, white cloth about 30" square. Flour the cloth well. Turn the dough onto the well-floured cloth. Pick up the four corners and tie the cloth with a piece of string. Leave enough slack in the cloth to allow the pudding to swell and expand, Place the cloth in a kettle of boiling water (have about 2" or 3" of water in kettle and be sure it is boiling). Boil 11%4 to 2 hours. Remove from kettle; place on a plate and fry it in the oven. Serve hot with custard sauce. Custard sauce is made like thin cream pie filling. This dumpling may also be sliced and served cold like fruit bread. SCOTCH BROTH Sheila Morgan Loch Lomondside Branch 1% Ibs. Leg-end mutton 1 turnip 2 quarts cold water 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley 1 onion 1 tablespoon Scotch barley 1 leek salt and pepper 1 carrot Cut meat in small pieces. Add water, salt, and pepper and simmer gently. Remove scum from soup. Add vegetables and cook 1 hour. Strain, bring to boil, add parsley. Eat broth with oatcakes and butter. The meat and vegetables could be eaten separately, or all may be left together and eaten as good, thick soup or stew. LENTIL SOUP Sheila Morgan Soak a large ham bone in water for 24 hours. Simmer gently for 1 hour. Discard bone. Add grated carrots, thinly sliced leek and onion, lentils that have been soaked in cold water for several hours, salt, and pepper. Cook until thick and well done. Split peas may be substituted for lentils or lentils and peas used. SCOTCH SHORTBREAD Sheila Morgan British Measurements American Measurements (approximate) Cream together: % ib. Fresh butter 5 oz. Icing sugar % c. Confectioners sugar Knead in the following: 5 oz. Cornflour 1 cup cornstarch 5 oz. Plain flour 1 cup plain flour Knead into Swiss roll tin. (Flatten to about 4%" thickness in a large cookie or roll pan.) Bake at 300° until golden brown, about 114 hours or less, cut in bars 11" x 4". FRUIT BRAN LOAF Sheila Morgan British Measurements American Measurements (approximate) 3 oz. All-bran 1 cup, plus 2 tablespoons All-bran 8 oz. Soft brown sugar 1% cup soft brown sugar 10 fluid oz. Milk 1% cup milk 6 oz. Sultanas 1 cup raisins Soak above ingredients overnight 5 oz. Self-rising flour 5 heaping tbsp. Self-rising flour Next morning add flour. Put in greased floured loaf tin. Bake at 350° for 114 hours. Serve cold, buttered generously. This keeps well, improves after standing one day. CANADIAN TART Sheila Morgan British Measurements American Measurements (approximate) Line a 7" pie tin with pastry made as follows: 8 oz. Plain flour 2 cups plain flour 4 oz. Lard Y% cup lard 8 teaspoons cold water pinch salt 1 tablespoon sugar Work flour, lard, sugar, salt together until it resembles coarse crumbs. Add water and mix gently to stiff dough. Roll and line pan. Filling: beat 1 egg and add 1 cup sugar (8 oz.) 1 cup sugar butter the size of an egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 generous cup raisins and currants Mix well and put into the uncooked pastry. Bake at 350° for 1 hour, or until filling is firm to touch. To serve: cut in wedges. This tart is delicious served with vanilla ice cream. TRIFLE (Delicious Scottish Dessert) Irene Little, Secretary, Annan Branch Relief Society Use stale sponge cake or plain yellow or white. Split a layer of cake. Spread bottom half with raspberry or other jam. Replace top half of cake. Cut in slices and arrange in the bottom of a large bowl or deep dish. Pour a little fruit juice over cake. Dissolve 1 packet red or orange jelly (Jello), cool, pour on cake, set. Add a layer of fruit (mixed, mandarin oranges, etc.). Cover with the same kind of jelly (Jello) or a different variety. Continue until bowl is filled. Allow to set several hours. Cover top with whipped cream. Cover generously with coconut. To serve: spoon out into fruit dishes. Add more fruit, such as sliced peaches, pear halves, or sliced bananas. A layer of vanilla blancmange pudding added in the center of the trifle is delicious. Use your imagination. Add what you have and what you like, a "trifle" of this and a "trifle" of that. Kearerom FRO THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker Relief Society Activities Butte Stake (Montana), Dillon Ward Anniversary Program March 17, 1964 Children, seated in front: Christy Wright, Robin Wright, and Deanne Wright. Front row, seated, left to right: Peggy S. Oliphant; Verla R. Boetticher; Martha Childs; Isabella M. Hartwig; June W. Jones; Lucille B. Swartz; Glenna May G. Morrison. Standing, left to right: Elder Walter Swartz; Bishop Raymond Curtis; Elder Kenneth Morrison; Elder Larry Chaffin; Greta Chaffin; Sylvia Ricks; Jerene Curtis; Emma Nygren; Margaret G. Park; Fay B. Nelson; Lavina Smith; Bea Stokes; Lola Farnsworth; Verla Lovell. Harriet S. Palmer, President, Butte Stake Relief Society, reports: "On March 17th we had our annual Relief Society anniversary party, which was a huge success. 'Pattern for Living Toward Ideal Womanhood' was the theme for the occasion. The dinner tables, which marked places for nearly one hundred, were resplendent in spring and Easter motifs. A large three-tiered birthday cake, baked and decorated by Delma Ruegseggar, was displayed on a large mirrored tray. Reminiscent of many springs past, the Singing Mothers chorus captivated the audience, wearing originally designed bonnets in styles of the past, present, and future. An original tribute honoring the visiting teachers was written and read by Ruth Graves. A skit 'History in the Making' was directed by Fay Nelson as the concluding number. It depicted the first organization of the Society. Lavina Smith provided background music." 770 through Stake and Mission Relief Society Presidents. See regulations governing cond Counselor Eunice J. Om the left aa the first row jis Lettice O. Rich who "The Singing Mothers sang 'Peace J Leave With You,' 'Calvary,' 'Let Not Your Song End,' 'Prairie Lullaby,' and 'Eternal Life.' They were joined by Our guests, the Southern Pacific Male Chorus, under the direction of Owen Rouse, for 'This Is My Country,' and the €tand finale 'Battle Hymn of the Allegro' from the Second Concerto by Handel, 4 special Singing Mothers double trio, and an outstanding brass ensemble from Weber High School. The evening was truly a memorable one for the Ben Lomond Stake." Winter Quarters Stake (Nebraska) Relief Society Achievement Day May 2, 1964 Second row, seated (back of the children), left to right: Beverly Nye, Magazine representative; Afton Hardy, Education Counselor; Evelyn Doty, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Wakefield, social science class leader; Blanche Rawlings, President; Delores Allred, Work Director Counselor. Sister Rawlings reports: "The Winter Quarters Stake Relief Society sponsored an 'Achievement Day.' A program and the film 'The Awakening' were enjoyed in the morning, and a luncheon was served at noon. In the afternoon a fashion show was presented by the ward and branch Relief Societies. The sisters and their children modeled the clothing they had made during the winter. A fine display of bazaar items was shown. Approximately one hundred attended, and the success was most gratifying. Winter Quarters Stake is three years old, and there are six wards and six branches." Berlin Stake (Western Germany) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference March 22, 1964 Seated, fourth from the right in the front row: Mary R. Young, member of the General Board of Relief Society; second from Sister Young, on the left: Elsa Durr, President, Berlin Stake Relief Society. Ilse Thiede, organist, stands in the second row at the right; Jean A. Jensen, chorister, stands in the front row, fifth from the right; Sarah L. Johnson of the General Board of the Primary Association, front row, third from the right; Counselor Elise Buchereite, stands in the last row, second from the right; Frieda Pflugradt, SecretaryTreasurer, stands in the back row, first on the left. Sister Durr reports that this conference was a joyful and spiritually uplifting occasion. The German Relief Society sisters were delighted to meet Sister Young and to associate with her during the conference sessions. "The numbers presented by the Singing Mothers were beautifully renderd and well received. This was an outstanding accomplishment, considering the difficulties of distance and transportation." University West Stake (Utah) Honors Officers, Visiting Teachers, and Class Leaders at Luncheon, May 2, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Carrie M. Linford; Lila D. Harrison; Isabel D. McGregor; Camilla E. Kimball. Back row, standing, left to right: Evoline M. Riding; Agnes R. Frazer; Esther M. Tidwell; Edyth J. Romney, Secretary-Treasurer, University West Stake Relief Society; Annie M. Ballantyne, President; Sara M. Creer, First Counselor; Gyneth E. Hunter, Second Counselor. Sister Ballantyne reports: "The University West Stake Relief Society Board honored with a luncheon and program all the ward officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers of the stake on May 2, 1964. There were 240 in attendance, including special guests Camilla Eyring Kimball; Stake President Lamont Peterson and his Counselors Milton G. Thackeray and Merrill G. Wood; and Stake High Council Advisor to Relief Society Thomas B. Montgomery. At a meeting following the luncheon, Sister Kimball related some of her experiences visiting Relief Society organizations in different parts of the world and displayed some articles produced by them. "Of the visiting teachers present, six had served for fifty years or more: Carrie Merrill Linford, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Lila Dansie Harrison, North Thirteenth Ward, fifty-two years; Isabel Durham McGregor, West Twelfth Ward, sixty years; Evoline Mann Riding, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Agnes Rufi Frazer, West Eleventh Ward, fifty years; Esther Milner Tidwell, East Twelfth Ward, fifty-one years." Reno Stake (Nevada), Fallon Ward Visiting Teachers Achieve One Hundred Per Cent Visiting for Five Years February 7, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Jan Larsen, former president; stake officers: Alta Darney, Secretary-Treasurer; Blanche Richards, First Counselor; Louise L. Bell, President; Dorothea Folsom, Second Counselor; Golden Hyde, Bishop of Fallon Ward; ward officers: June Miller, First Counselor; Flora Miller, President; Jane Joedeman, Second Counselor; Thora Hendrix, Secretary-Treasurer; Wilmuth Crook, former president. Sister Bell reports: "The Reno Stake is proud of the Fallon Ward for achieving one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the last five years. The ward officers held a party honoring the visiting teachers. A luncheon was served, and the program 'A Light Shining' was presented. This one hundred per cent record was attained under three presidents." Utah Stake Honors Relief Society Secretary-Treasurers April 23, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: LaRee Adamson; Louise Cardall, Secretary-Treasurer, Utah Stake Relief Society; Ethel Bills. Back row, standing, left to right: Nadine Tuft; Norma Snow; Phyllis Jacobson; Geraldine Bastian; Afton Halverson. Nellie R. Mecham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: "We had a lovely social honoring our secretary-treasurers. All of the sisters in the stake were invited and encouraged to bring a friend, including 1 "n-Latter-day Saint sisters. Effie Pinegar of the stake board wrote and read a. Uvely tribute to our secretary-treasurers, after which each one was presented with a beautiful hand-crocheted handkerchief. The Singing Mothers of the University Ward, under the direction of Ethelyn Mangum and Louise Wakefield, furnished music for the occasion. Two film strips: 'A Record Shall Be Kept' and 'The Awakening' were enjoyed. Between the film strips, Clair Johnson favored us with a lovely vocal solo. After the closing prayery, light refreshments were served." West Mexican Mission,