RICHFIELD.

	Minutes of the R. S. Quarterly Confer-
ence of Sevier Stake of Zion, held in Rich-
field, Jan. 23 and 24, 1880, Pres. Elizabeth
Bean presiding. Singing. Prayer by Elder
W. H. Segmiller.
	After a few appropriate opening remarks
by Pres. Elizabeth Bean, the Secretary read
the reports from the different wards. The
officers of the stake and wards were then
presented and sustained. The presidents
of the wards gave verbal reports of their re-
spective wards. They reported the aims,
desires, and feelings of the sisters to be
good and in accordance with the direction
and counsel of the Priesthood. Pres. Eliza-
beth Bean expressed her pleasure in listen-
ing to the reports, and felt that we had
great cause for rejoicing and thankfulness.
Exhorted the sisters to press forward in the
cause of right, and to use every effort to do
good and promote the interest of the work
of our Heavenly Father. Bro. W. H. Seg-
miller, of the Presidency of the Stake,
spoke to the sisters; said the influence of
wives and mothers was great, and it should
be used in preparing their families for use-
fulness in society and in the kingdom of
God. Advised mothers to teach their
daughters to choose good company, and to
not associate with rough, profane, intem-
perate  men; and if they would be deter-
mined to have good company, they could
soon command and enjoy it.
	Conference adjourned until two o'clock.
Singing. Benediction.
	2 P. M. Meeting called to order by Pres.
Elizabeth Bean. Singing. Prayer. Sing-
ing. Sisters Washburn, Spencer, Thurber,
Kepler and others of the sisters instructed
and encouraged the congregation. They
spoke of our duties and obligations to our-
selves, each other and God. Referred to
the responsibilities of the mothers of Israel,
and how careful each one should be to teach
her little ones to pray and have faith in
God. Encouraged the presidents of the
Young Ladies' and Primary Associations to
be persevering and diligent, and not let the
interest taken in the meetings slacken, or
die out. Hoped we might all live so that
we could claim the love and protection of
our Heavenly Father.
	Bishops Poulsen and Sellers gave some
excellent advice and instruction, and com-
mended the sisters for their perseverance
and many good works, and prayed God's
blessings to rest on the labors of the Relief
Societies. Meeting adjourned until ten A.
M. Singing. Benediction.
	Saturday, 10 A. M. After the usual open
ing exercises, Pres. Elizabeth Bean made
some excellent remarks on the subject of
home industry, and encouraged the socie-
ties to take hold of this important matte


[Column 1]
and carry it into effect to as great an extent
as was possible. Gave some valuable sug-
gestions in regard to carrying on the differ-
ent branches of industry which were within
reach. Sister Eliza Ogilvie, Pres. of the
Silk Association, spoke in the interest of
silk raising and asked the cooperation of
the sisters to aid her in this matter. Bish-
op Geo. W. Bean spoke for a short time, on
the increase of the evils of intoxication,
profanity and using tobaco. Exhorted the
mothers to bring to bear all the influence
they possibly could, to correct those evils,
and thought by using wisdom, and speaking
a kind word in the right time much good
might be accomplished. A number of the
sisters bore their testimony to the truth of
this work, and felt certain if we would live
up to our duties and privileges we should
be blessed.
	Bro. Lofgreen made a few good remarks
and bore his testimony that the Spirit of
God was in our midst.
	Pres. Bean announced that the Primary
Association would meet in the after-
noon.
	Singing. Benediction.
	2 P. M. After singing and prayer, the
Primary Association was given an hour's
time. The Secretaries called the roll, the
ten commandments were recited by four
little girls, and a recitation given by one
little girl. Instructions were given them
which occupied the rest of the time, and
the meeting was turned over to the Pres.
of the R. S.
	Pres. Elizabeth Bean thanked the con-
gregation for their kind attention. Bore
her testimony to the divinity of plural mar-
riage, and said by depending on the Lord
and relying on him for aid and comfort
she could truly say that this principle was
now no trial to her. Asked God to bless us
all, and help us to live near to Him.
	Coun. W. H. Segmiller arose and said he
had remarked that day at the dinner-table
he believed Sister Bean was a heroine, and
now he knew it, and would prophesy she
should go down to her grave in peace, and
God would bless her declining years with
comfort and plenty. He then spoke briefly
of the terrible inflnence of liquor, tobacco
and profanity, and called a vote asking the
mothers if they would aid him, by every
effort in their power in abolishing the use
of intoxicating drinks and other evils to
which they unanimously responded, yes.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing. Bensdiction.
