HOME AND REFORM.

	Many are the subjects which have been
discussed, to bring about a general reform
or to improve the moral status of the civil-
ized world, especially among the American
people of whose soaring ambition,the Eagle
is the emblem.
	Lean back in your chair, dear reader and
with your mind's eye, take a glance at the
political world of to day. What is It? It
looks like a huge body of waters foaming,
frothing and boiling over; embodying the
wildest passions with the noblest impulses;
the basest corruption calling forth the ut-
most efforts of the few honest gallant
patriots, who like Washington have it at
heart, to steer the nation to safety.
Freedom! Independence! Equality! are
divers cries, uttered with divers motives;
some individuals trying to establish fair
play and peace, others concealing under the
mantle of patriotism and religion their self-
ishness and greed. Clamoring for office
and high positions,not because of any desire
to do good to their fellow beings, but to fat-
ten themselves on the nation's life blood.
Will ever this strife be abated and sub-
dued? Not until the social structure is re-
modelled and built upon true and sound
principles. Home, or the family circle, is
the foundation of Society, of Kingdoms and
Republics.
	Build the family relationship upon truth,
honesty and thorough confidence, arm it
with prudence and industry, and its mem-
bers will set forth, prepared to withstand
the temptations and allurements to be met
with in political life.
	A century ago,when the fear of God fru-
gality and industry were the rule; and
levity, indolence and extravagance the ex-
ception, confidence prevailed in social and
political circles. Now prudence and frugal-
ity are derided by the majority, and ex-
travagance and pride are the order of the
day. Home the social demoralization.
	Young men and maidens whose hearts
are filled with love for your country, and
whose noble desire is to see our glorious flag
untarnished: this much wished for reform
may begin with you! Leaving the follies
and giddy pastimes that are now fashionable
for the young; choose your partners in life,
among the God fearing, active, and indus-
trious of your acquaintance, lay a firm and
sure foundation for your future career while
you are full of hope and vigor. Shun ease
and extravagance as unholesome to moral
health, the result will be self respect and
consciousness of having put one sound
spoke in the social and political wheel.
