	BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Nature and art are twins, born of beauty
and brought from heaven! All the grand
sculptors have taken their models from Na-
ture—beautiful, glorious Nature, the child
of God! Art has watched and closely stud-
ied her sister, Nature; and if the artist,
painter or sculptor, has had a sublime,
poetical, Heaven inducted soul, so far has he,
or she, excelled their contemporaries. To
visit those Galleries, Mausoleums, or Halls
of Statuary is a feast none but those who
witness such can understand or appreciate;
language cannot demonstrate it. In the
figures, the attitudes, the expression, there
is a spirit in each that is felt, but not told
by articulate sounds. The allegory of Pyg-
malion falling so deeply in love with a beau-
tiful statue, and throwing the inspiration of
his love into the embraces he lavished upon
it, and thereby warmed it into life, contains
a beautiful truth, and has a reality in it that
those will at once comprehend on beholding
the wonderful works of art by the hands
of the immortal artists!
	"The Dying Gladiator," the world re-
nowned marble figure that generations have
rushed to behold, in which lives all the ago-
nizing sufferings of that awful moment,
when the all-accomplished athlete sinks,
dying under the wounds he has received in
the unholy strife, which "crowned heads"
and all the "elite" of Rome had assembled
to witness—half being ladies of the first
nobility. In parenthesis let me say, that

[Column 2]
age is called barbarous, and perhaps in some
things that term may have truth in it; but
what grand, stupendous, almighty works
were accomplished in that age! We seem
to be pigmies compared with that day and
age. But to return. In the writhing of that
suffering being, in the expression of face and
form, is read, as in an open book, the warfare
he has died to portray. Accomplished he was
in the superhuman art to which he had been
educated, and in which he has hitherto
borne the palm. Surely the artist must
have taken these expressions from the liv-
ing exhibition, for no imagination, however
vivid, could so truthfully have depicted
them, or so graphically developed them up-
on the cold, insensate marble, which, by
the hand of the artist, has been made to
live again, "not for an age, but for all
time."
	The "Venus di Medici," another model--
I had almost said living, for the beholder
almost asks, Does she breathe? Another
model that millions of eyes have beheld
with rapture, never to forget! A model of
a perfect woman! Study it, ye ladies who
cripple the glorious form of nature by tight
lacing and tight dresses. No wasp-like
waist is there, it is grand, glorious nature,
in all her heaven-born, heaven-endowed
freedom! Now we will come home. Watch
the movements of a little child when free
from the trammels of dress, especially some
children; see how artistically graceful they
are in their gambols, in their movements,
when they forgot that any eye is upon
them! How I have loved to watch them
in all the artistical beauty of nature, and I
have yearned to be a mechanical artist, that
I might catch some of those attitudes and
immortalize them on the canvas or the
stone! But oh! all this has been done over
and over again, and the world teems with
the glorious beauty of past and present
times; and it is a living feast to those who
are privileged to behold it. Byron, in his
own strong, peculiar language, describes his
feelings, on returning (I think) from the
Vatican; he says: "I returned dazzled, and
drunk with beauty." This language will
be fully understood by one who is imbued
with the sublime, the heavenly and the 
beautiful; to others there will be no glory
in the words.
	In the Histrionic art, it is the personifi-
cation of nature, cultivated, refined, glori-
ous nature, that gives the inspiration to the
audience. Macready, Charlotte Cushman
and others of the present day, made the
stage glorious by the entire naturalness of
their [-]mpersonations.  It was truth they
portrayed, and that made them great, grand
and absolute.
	In common, every day life, how delight-
ful it is to meet one who is perfectly natural;
affectation is never attractive. Let a person
be always their own original self, and they
will always be respectable, even if they
have not come in contact with beautiful art.
I would of course exalt art! Have I not been
doing so? but she must ever educate her-
self in the school of her sister, Nature, or,
believe me, she can never attract, never
charm, never rivet! This is one of the
problems of every day life, which many
fail to study. "Art must ever sit at the feet

[Column 3]
of Nature, and learn how to cultivate, re-
fine and embellish her.
	Salt Lake City, March 21.


[Column 1]

