			IN AMERICA.

	The advocates of female suffrage have
reason to be gratified at the progress of
their cause. In Boston women are now
allowed to vote for School Directors, and at
the last school election nearly 1000 of them
actually voted for a ticket which was beaten
—showing what perhaps the women had
not appreciated before, that voting does not
always involve electing the ticket voted for.
The New York Legislature has followed
the Boston example and passed a bill not
only allowing women to vote for school Dir-
ectors but to be School Directors themselves,
providing they can persuade a sufficient
number of persons to vote for them to elect
them. In Kentucky widows having child-
ren of school age have the right to vote for
School Directors. This is evidently the
beginning. School Directors are made a
sort of apprenticeship or training school in
which the new suffragans are to be instruct-
ed in the new right before being permitted
that general exercise of it which they hope
will ultimately be accorded them. And
voting is not the only privilege that females
have recently conquered. It seems that
they can be enumerators under the new
Census bill. At all events, the Superinten-
dent "is aware of no reason existing in the
law for regarding women as ineligible for
appointment as enumerators." Each Super-
visor, he says, must judge for himself
whether such appointments would be prac-
tically advantageous in his district. In
some regions they would be highly objec-
tionable; but in others, where women can
do the work as efficiently as men, there is
no reason why they should not be appointed.
In point of fact,several have been appointed
in Kentucky; and it is probable that among
the several thousand enumerators who
will do the subsantial work of the census of
the present year a considerable proportion
will be women:—St. Louis Republican.


WHEN a true genius appears in the world,
you may know him by this sign; all the
dunces are in confederancy against him.
	HOUSEKEEPING.—Let no one call house-
keeping a menial occupation, neither sup-
pose that no ability is needed to carry it on.


When it comes to be considered how much
is to be embraced under the general term
"housekeeping," used in its best and full
sense, it is plain to be seen that there is an
ample field for the exercise of the most ex-
tended and enlightened education. Book-
learning is not wasted; there is every day
occasion for its use, and the more readily
and intelligently artistic and scientific
knowledge is applied in domestic affairs,
the more easily the work is accomplished,
and the more pleasure is given in its results
to all who are participants therein.
	HARSH EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM.—What
Anselm of Conterbury, at the end of the
eleventh century, said against the rigid
monastic discipline is admirable. An abbot
complained, in conversation with him, of
the incorrigible youths who would not be
amended by all the correction he adminis-
tered. Anselm replied,—
	"You never cease beating the boys, and
what sort of men will they be when they
grow up?"
	"Stupid and brutish," answered the
abbot.
	"A good sign for your method of educa-
tion," said Anselm, "when you educate
men into brutes."
	The abbot answered,—
	"Is it our fault? We try to compel them
in all manner of ways to be better, and yet
we effect nothing."
	"You compel them!" said Anselm. "Tell
me, then, I pray you, if you planted a tree
in your garden and enclosed it on all sides,
so that it could not spread its branches in
any direction, and after some years trans-
plant it in an open space, what kind of a
tree would it have become? Certainly a use-
less one' with crooked, tangled branches.
And whose fault would it be but your fault,
who trained the tree in this over-compul-
sory manner?"


THE "Indianapolis Journal" says "The
admission of women to politics has become
a necessity."
	Dr. Mary J Safford of Boston, a lady of
fine education and brilliant attainments
lectured recently in that city on the subject
of "Elements of Success in Life." "That
life is successful," she said, "in which a
true a noble character is built up." She
urged the importance of special work, of
order, health, cleanliness, promptness, suit-
able dress and other elements as valuable
requisites to success.
	THE first ingredient in conversation, is
truth; the next, good sense; the third,
good humor; the fourth, wit.—Sir W.
Temple.


