ON	THE WING.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: You will doubtles
wonder why I have remained quiet so long.
The multiplicity of labor is my excuse,since
I have  been  here  in Philadelphia  I have
been engaged  early  and  late attending,
lectures at  the Woman’s Medical  College
and studies connected  therewith  have en-
grossed my every thought.  I have listened
with labored attention and took notes during
the entire Lectures  of the  eight  different
Professors during the Fall and Winter Ses-
sion which  has  just  closed.  To  write
rapidly seven hours a day after a lecture is
a labor  both body and mind.  Now  as
each student anxiously  waits the  greeting
of home friends  they  part  with  many  of
their  class  mates  forever.  I like  others
look forward to  the  time  of  meeting  my
boy and sister in Illinois  and  still  more
remote my home and friends in Utah where
the most of the labors of my life have been
and among the people  with  whom  my
future hopes and prospects are blended.
	I am proud that I have an interest  with
as noble  men  and  women  as  history  can
boast;  that have and are valiantly lighting
for the truth.  When I read the address of
C. W. Penrose  before the House of Repres-
entatives I felt to say as other Ladies here
did "that they could vote  for such a man,”
indeed I felt that such a man, deserves from
each  woman an hundred  votes.  I have
come for a purpose and I intend  to accom-
plish it when, where and how, the best way
I can, which the future  will  decide  by the
aid of that divine influence which all saints
should by guided by in every pursuit of life.
The Latter-day Saints  sometimes  express
themselves that they wanted weeks to ac-
complish the labor of a  day.  It seems  as
though my experience here has  been  the
same.  The labor of months is rushed upon
us in the Lecture of one hour.  My attention
is now directed to Ann Arbor  which I shall
visit enroute to Illinois and shall mail this
letter there, to you.  While I pen this I am
now by steam power  rushing over the road
that a few years ago  took hours  to travel a
distance that  now  requires just  so many
minutes.
	There my pencil  has been stopped while
we were driven with all speed  in dense
darkness through a tunnel  which I should
judge a  mile or so in length.  The guide
post says we are 105, miles east of Pitts-
burg.  What does all this haste  portray to
a reflecting mind,if the reader would know,
read Joel and the ninth  Chapter  of Micah
and be convinced.
	When I went to Philldelphia I  traveled
by the way of the Great Lakes.  I visited
the Exposition at Chicago  which  was a
magnificent  affair. Water falls and  all
kinds of machinery  of  modern  invention,
from the reaper and threshing  machines to
the manufacturing  of  childrens toys, the
baking of pies and cakes  all this  was being
conducted by steam.
	I must not stop here but ask  you  to  fol-
low me on to the greatest  natural  curiosity
of North America  the Niagara  Falls which
has been so many times  described that my
description would not give you an addi-
tional idea of its  grandeur.  I paid twenty-
five cents  for  entering  the  enclosure  and
another twenty-five to view the Grand Art
Gallery, before I had time to get half  way
round I was told it was time to close—of
course they were  not  interested  in  how
much I saw, but in how much  they could
get.—Such is life, pay your money and  get
its worth if you can.  Now I will give you a
glimpse of my childhood’s home as I arrive
	the town of Gerry  Chatauqua  Co. N. Y.
my uncle B. F. Field,mother’s only brother
takes me in his carriage to the  two  farms
which looked small and diminutive  of 150,
acres compared to the open broad prairies of
the west.—The barn was the  only  remains
of the buildings—In the grave yard  not a
stone to show the resting place of my kind-
dred of 35 years ago.  I saw  two  or  three
disinterested persons that I once saw in my
childhood;  the school  house was gone.  I
must hurry past  this scene.  The place
seemed deserted, not the thrift and improve-
ments  of other places.  Even  the old pine
stumps that would not  decay  were  pulled
up by machinery and were used to fence
some of the farms with their wide spread-
ing roots extending 20 or 30, feet  into the
air, rather rural looking to be sure.  The
homes many of  them have  the  same  old
style  of 30 years  ago  one  and half  story
framed clapboarded and painted white with
out a porch.  But the Cemetery  which  my
uncle superintends, where lie the remains
of my aunt and cousins, is beautiful beyond
description,  decorated  with  evergreens
trained and trimmed in every  conceivable
manner.  Now we will pass on to Philadel-
phia, in  1877 the population  of  this  city
was over, 624022, as one  passes  through
the city in  the  street  cars  you got an  im-
pression that the houses are mostly made of
brick and all of one pattern,  from three  to
four stories high and white  window  blinds
and 4 or 5, white marble steps.  The  front
of each house being  wide enough to admit
of one narrow front room and hall the rest
of the room is found back  and  up two and
three flights of stairs which  must be more
or less ascended and decended any time the
front door  bell  rings  which  requires  an
extra pair  of shoes, and  double  supply of
muscle. Every morning you will see the
ladies out  washing the white marble  steps
and the brick walk the width of their own
house.  These white steps and white blinds
give  the  city  such  a  clean  appearance.
You only know one street  from  another by
its number.
	A rich man builds,not one, home  but one
side of the block  to rent  after  one pattren
hence the sameness.  Coal is furnished the
poorer class by the basket full every morning.
Trade is conducted in many of the out shops
on a small scale.  I saw one woman  purch-
ase one egg at the rate of 20 cents per doz-
en another a fourth of a pound  of butter  at
30 cents per pound.  I must tell you I have
not eaten a good potatoe since I left Utah,
the country does not produce them and the
poor variety it does produce is sold by the
half peck 13 cents.  Here now  we arrive
at Pittsburg,what a contrast from the above.
The houses are smoky, dirty, black, gloomy
and it seems as though a good  many  more
adjectives would not half  express the dirty
faces  of  the  workmen  and  appearance of
the city.  Now we are abreast of the Ohio
River 25 years  ago  I sailed  down  it with
my father’s family of which only three of the
seven are now living.  We ascend  to  the
north of the state  and  along  Lake Erie the
country is  not  so  broken  as  through  the
state of Pennsylvania and the farms and res-
idences  appear pleasant and very inviting.
	There I could only get my trunk checked
for Detroit  and  in the  hurry  of changing
cars in the night have left it, and so I must
see the conductor  and  have  it  forwarded.
As I go northward in Michigan the homes
are more scattered and places less improved.
I have  not  seen a horse, or  a  cow,  the
whole distance only as attached to a team.
	Ann Arbor, Michigan, Saturday  morning
March 7th. Now here the  two  friends are
lost in the arms  of  each  other.  My dear
friends if you have ever experienced a de-
privation of all  association  for  the  same
length of time you can well  appreciate the
feelings of each.
	Miss Mattie  Paul  seems  happy.  Not
quite so rosy as when she left home but her
untiring  energy  and  perseverance  speak
well for her future  prospects.  I thought I
was self sacrificing  but when  one  of  her
years and experience has endured so bravely
the absence of a mother and home ties, I
can only say she  has  my  approval and I
trust the approbation of  her many  friends.
I will visit the College here to-morrow  and
write more as I have more to say and more
time  to  say  it.  With  compliments and
respects to yourself and friends.
				E. S. BARNEY.
	March 7th, 1880.


