HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE will publish in our next issue fuller par-
ticulars of the Sisters' Conferences in Salt Lake
and Ogden.
	IT seems strange that after so much has been
published in regard to correspondents giving
their real name, that we should be under the
necessity of repeating again that we cannot
publish articles, or poems, unless they will fur-
nish the editor their full name. Initials are
no better than a nom de plume.
	THE Sisters' Quarterly Conference of Weber
Stake was held in the Tabernacle in Ogden
City, Thursday and Friday, March 18 and 19,
Mrs. Jane S.&nbsp;Richards presiding. Pres. John
Taylor and Sisters E. R. Snow and Zina D.
Young, of Salt Lake City, attended and took
part in the Conference, which was an exceed-
ingly important and interesting one. Pres.
Taylor was specially invited by the children of
the Primary Association. Apostle F. D. Rich-
ards, Pres. Peery and Counselors, and many
Bishops and other brethren of the county
attended the meetings.
	THE Sisters'  Quarterly Conference of Salt
Lake Stake was held in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms Friday and Saturday, March 19 and
20, commencing at 10 A. M. and 2 P. M. each
day. The first day was especially devoted to
the representation of the various branches of
the Relief Society in this county, Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne presiding. The morning was oc-
cupied in reading written reports; in the after-
noon verbal reports were given by the respect-
ive presidents, and interesting addresses were
made by Pres. Horne and her Counselors, El-
mina S. Taylor and Sarepta M. Heywood.
	Saturday morning was the Y. L. M. I. A
Conference, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding.
Written and verbal reports occupied the early
part of the morning, after which the meeting


was ably addressed by Pres. Freeze and her
Counselors Louie Felt and Clara Young Con-
rad. Pres. Joseph Young then spoke to the
sisters in a most fatherly and comforting way,
and concluded by singing "There is a land of 
pure delight," in his most happy manner.
	Saturday afternoon the various Primary As-
sociations were represented by both written
and verbal reports. Sisters Eliza R. Snow and
Zina D. Young and Pres. A. M. Cannon each
addressed the meeting for a short time upon
subjects appropriate to the occasion. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months.


