HALF A CENTURY.
	Fifty years have now elapsed since the
Church of  Jesus  Christ  in  this dispensation
was organized.  Six members only were present
on  that  momentous  occasion.  Their  names
will be  memorable  during  the  annals  of  all
time, as the original  founders  of a kingdom
which will continue  to  grow and thrive and
increase, until  a people  are  prepared  for  the
second advent of Christ upon the earth.  These
six men who composed the organization were
Joseph Smith the Prophet, Hyrum and Samuel
H. Smith, his brothers, David and Peter Whit-
mer and Oliver Cowdery.  The meeting was a
very quiet and unpretentious one in itself, al-
though  ushering  in the most glorious  of all
dispensations, and “a marvellous  work  and a
wonder."  It was  held in a private  dwelling-
house, the residence of Mr.  Peter Whitmer,
Sen., Fayette, Seneca Co., New York, on Tues-
day  the  6th  day  of  April, 1830  Singularly
strange  the  Annual Conference  of  the  half
century will commence on the same day of the
week.
	To be sure, much very important preliminary
work had been done in diflerent places previous
to the regular organization of the Church, and
considerable persecution  had  already  been
waged against the prophet and those who be-
lieved upon his word and aided  him in his la-
bors.  There were quite a number of persons
already baptized, besides those who formed the
first Conference;  but they were scattered, and
there had not as yet been any commandment
given them to gather together.
	In Kirtlaad, the first gathering place of the
Saints, in 1835, the first Twelve  Apostles were
called and ordained; though the revelation to
call and ordain Twelve Apostles was given in
Fayette, N. Y., in 1829.  Of the original quo-
rum of Apostles only one is now living, Elder
Orson Pratt.
	In the course of the fifty years which have
rolled their seasons round, since the rise of this
Church, from so small a beginning, many won-
derful  events  have  transpired which  fill  the
mind with awe  in  contemplation.  It would
be impossible to enumerate  here even a small
portion of them, and it would  take volumes to
record them all in the most concise and simple
form;  and though much  has  been  said and
published, yet  the  half  has  not  been  told.
Much of the history  of  the Church is still un-
written  which will  yet appear  in drama, in
poesy and in song.  And here is a wide field
for the literary talent of the young people who
are desirous of being  useful and promoting the
cause of Zion.  Facts  which,  if  elaborately
woven into plays, into poetry and into songs
set to music, would give an  original  tone and
style to these classical pursuits and professions,
that would  be  particularly  inspirational  in
bearing  and effect. It would be  educational,
too, in the best aud highest sense  of the term,
as pertaining to literary work.
	The steady  advance and onward march of 
this Latter-day work, notwithstanding the op-
position  brought to  bear  against it from all
quarters is one of the best evidences that it is
founded upon the “Rock of Ages," and though
storms assail and heavy billows  angrily beat
upon it, still remains firm and unshaken.  This
peculiar  people, though  mobbed, pillaged,
driven and persecuted, have kept on steadily
increasing in numbers.  Some have been slain
for  the truth’s sake, and many have died by
the wayside in their  weary travels and pil-
grimages, martyrs to the cruelty of their perse-
cutors; and yet the Saints to-day, many thou-
sands in number, occupy quite a large portion
of territory, and the Gospel is  still being pro-
mulgated in other lands.  Every year the new
converts gather to these “happy valleys" from
their  respective countries and homes, to learn
of the ways of the Lord, aid in  establishing
Zion and in lifting up the ensign to all nations.
	What great light has come into  the world
through the revelations given by the prophets
during these fifty years.  The fulness  of the
Gospel has been preached to the living and the
dead, and Temples have been erected in which
holy ordinances have been received, and cove-
nants made, and keys given that reach into the
eternities How many thousands who sat in
darkness have been enlightened by the  torch
of divine  truth, and how much more might
have bean accomplished but for the prejudice
which blinds the world, and the superstition
that covers the earth like a mantle of darkness.
	In this year there is every reason  to  believe
great events will transpire. We are most cer-
tain'y on the eve of  great changes, and no one
can tell what a day will bring forth
The coming Conference will no doubt be one
of prophetic significance, as it will mark a par-
ticular period of time, which fact will be recog-
nized  by  all  who  regard  special  times  and
events as turning  points in  the  history  of  the
Church  Everywhere, where Latter-day Saints
a e,among all nations,the 6th of April now near
will be remembered as the  anniversary of one
of the most auspicious days  that ever dawned
upon the sons and daughters  of  God.  Songs,
and  Hosannas,  and  prayers  of  thanksgiving
and praise will ascend on high, and the multi-
tudes of Saints in  all lands will rejoice together
for  the  blessings  vouchsafed  to the  people of
God.
	May the blessings  of  our  Father  in  heaven
rest  upon  the  people  in  great  abundance,
through his Holy  Spirit,  on  that  important
anniversary wherever the Saints may be gath-
thered together to worship.  And here  in this
centre Stake  of Zion may the glad hallelujahs
ascend in joyful  and  swelling  choruses  to
heaven for  the  manifold  blessings  bestowed,
for the peace, plenty and  prosperity that have
crowned the efforts made by this people during
the  fifty  years  of  the Gospel  dispensation.
Small in the beginning as this Church was, ob-
scure and unknown to the world as were its
founders, it stands  to-day a living  monument
of power, and  the  memory  of  those  remarka-
ble men who met together in that solemn Coun-
cil half a century ago to obey the voice of the
Lord, will on that day be fresh in the heart of
every Latter-day Saint.
						E. B. Wells


SEVERAL obituaries are laid by for lack of
space. We would also say again that we do
not publish obituary poems, except in rare in-
stances.


