RIGHTS BELONG

	A very few women of the land have expressed
their opinion with regard to their rights as citi-
zens. I wish to express mine, and be num-
bered with the few.
	First I would ask, Can there be an organized
kingdom without male and female? No. In
the beginning God gave the law to Adam and
Eve. Eve suffered the penalty, and gained
the knowledge of good and evil. She became
the mother of all living, to act a conspicuous
part in the drama of human existence. "Male
and female created He them." And God
blessed them and said unto them: "Be fruitful
and multiply and replenish the earth, and sub-
due it: and have dominion over the fish of the
sea, and over the fowls of the air, and every
living thing that moveth upon the earth."
(Gen. 1, xxviii.)
	Without the woman chaos would now reign
triumphant on the earth. Man become de-
penedent upon the creation of woman, and she
was  fitted and constituted for the companion
of man, to be one with him in all things, and
what concerns one concerns the other. And it
is my opinion that why the world at large is in
such a plight and state of things is because
woman's voice has not beeu heard in the Coun-
cil; it has been set at naught as a vain thing.
Yes, woman, you must be in silent submission
stay at home and be as Martha, troubled about,
many things. But be careful, and not learn
the better part like Mary, lest you get too wise,
and your aspirations lead you to have a voice
in public affairs.
	I say to all women, make yourselves ac-
quainted with the technicalities of law made by
man, to govern you and your sons and daugh-
ters. Raise your voices on high to abolish law
that sustains grog-shops and billiard saloons to
make drunkards of your husbands, sons and
brothers. That make possible, yes lawful,
houses of ill-fame, that lead women onward to
shame and destruction, and screen men from
it while women are branded with infamy and
total ruin, body and soul. Wo! to men who let
your brothers go free in guilt, but punish what
you call the weaker veseel with exile from re-
spectable society, through the inconsistency of 
man made laws.
	I would again say to the women of the land,
get in your possession "Mother Eve's" knowl-
edge to know good and evil, to ward off the 
curse that leads to misery and death. Let wo-
men represent themselves, and plead for a sys-
tem of things that will punish the offender.
It is said, "Thou shalt not commit adultery."
There was a city spoken of, its builder's name
was Enoch, and he called its name after him-
self, and he walked with God three hundred
years. He and the city were taken up to
heaven. Think you that those citizens did not 
understand  the  law and order by which they
were governed and perfected? Reason would
answer they had knowledge of all things, and 
this gave them salvation and happiness. We

[Column 2]

will portray the folly of making intelligent be-
ings succumb to ignorance and vanity. We
are determined to advance in literature and
the arts. * * * It is not to say, because we
make ourselves acquainted with things that
are going on around us, that we want to fill
positions not befitting our sex, or seek for of-
fice; we will leave the men a clear field. But
ouly those are fit for office who will act for the
publig good. And I do hope that women will
not fall into those errors that men have com
mitted, viz., to make laws to corrupt, degrade,
persecute, and to take away the liberty of
speech and conscience. * * Let the weaker
be the stronger in virtue, temperance, honesty
and the rights of the people.
