EDITOR "WOMAN'S  EXPONENT."  We left
Salt Lake City on our return trip the after-
noon of August 1st., and reached Sunset
Aug. 25th. We were greatly blessed and
prospered on our journey, laid over one day
and half. Feed and water were scarce, but
by driving rapidly we reached each water-
ing place without suffering to either man
or beast, and kept our teams in good con-
dition.
	I am glad to be at home again, although
my relatives are all in the vales of Utah
(that are in the Church). We were called by
the servants of God to come and help
redeem this desert land, and I for one am
contented, and feel willing to live anywhere
or do anything to help build up the king-
dom of God, and establish peace in the
earth. There is a great and glorious work
to be done in this land, we have settled in
the midst of the Lamanites and our actions
are closely watched by them, who, when
they are touched with the Holy Spirit will
become mighty aud valiant men in the
cause of truth and righteousness. The
Elders who are among them are laboring
diligently,and have a great deal of influence
with them.
	I learn by letter from Utah, that there is
considerable sickness among the Saints,and
many are called from this sphere of action
in their youth or the prime of life. It
seems hard to see our friends depart, and
be laid in the silent grave at a time when,
to all appearance they are just entering upon
a long, and useful life. Surely there is a
cause for this. The Lord has said that His
judgments should commence at his house.
If we as Latter-day Saints, would keep the
Commandents He has given us, and live
our most holy religion, there would be no


need for us to be chastened. We are very
much like little children, we have to be
coaxed and plead with day after day, and
when we become too rebellious and stiff-
necked must be chastised. We have be-
fore us the "Word of Wisdom," given to
the Saints and adapted to the capacity of
the weak, and the weakest of all Saints,
who are or can be called Saints. In this
we are promised that if we keep it that we
shall find wisdom and great treasures of
knowledge, that we shall have health and
strength, and the destroying angel shall
pass by us as he did the children of Israel
and not destroy us. Now I would ask, Are
not these promises worth more to us than all
the treasures of this world? And yet we,
poor erring humanity,will not live to obtain
these blessings but to satisfy the cravings of
a depraved appetite, will disregard the laws
of health that are laid down in plainness
and simplcity by the Great Physician, and
adapted to the capacity of the weak and
and the weakest of all Saints, and so we
must abide the penalty of our disobedience,
for we have our own agency,
	We have had quite a cold winter for this
country. The health of the people is gen-
erally good. As ever your Sister in the
Gospel.
				PHEBE A. McNeil.


