FAITH.

	Faith is one of the vital elements essen-
tial to the character of a saint of God. The
cultivation of faith is a duty of our daily
lives, which should not be neglected. It
underlies all the great truths which the
Gospel teaches. Without this principle we
are blind, and callous to all, that will en-
noble, exalt and purify our hearts, our
lives and our aspirations. Especially is it
necessary that the mother be endowed with
the precious gifts and quality of faith; that
she should pessess the pure spring of living
faith in her soul, that she may impart the
germ to her offspring, and seek to promote
its culture and growth in all her teachings
to the infant mind.
	Many are the simple lessons of faith in
God, and his dealings with mankind,
learned at the mother's knee, that have
gone with the man out into the great, busy,
active world and given him a deep and
lasting conviction of the evidences of div-
inity. In the most trying hour, when all
seemed uncertain and unreliable, the
mother's careful teachings of the Savior
and his blessed promises, have come with
refreshing light as from heaven, and im-
parted courage that could penetrate beyond
the dark clouds and reveal a ray, at least,
of glowing light beyond.
	There can scarcely be too much said upon
this important subject. It is a topic for
conversation of which we never need tire,
there is so much to be learned of its appli-
cation to our lives and conditions here upon
the earth. The instructions given upon
Faith in the "Book of Doctrines and Coven-
ants" should be carefully studied by our
young people; and the exercise of faith
should be a part of their spiritual educa-
tion; and mothers who may feel they are
well acquainted with this subject,would be
amply repaid by re-perusing those interest-
ing chapters upon Faith alluded to above.
It is true that our sisters have had many
and great, practical illiustrations of the
principles of faith in their past experiences
in this Church; and it is very edifying to

[Column 2]

hear rehearsed some of these striking inst-
ances of the sublimity of faith, given to the
Saints when passing through deep trials
and serious afflictions. How much darker
and drearier and more desolate still, would
the wearisome days of travel and pilgrim-
age have been, through which our people
have passed, if they had not been rich in
that holy faith which lifts the human soul
above the clouds into the clearer atmosphere
of a higher altitude.
	Strength, courage and heroism are some
of the excellent fruits of this beautiful plant
of spiritual origin. It is sometimes urged
that "faith is not tangible," and those de-
void of this quality often remark "we want
something more tangible than faith!" Some
of the most powerful elements operating in
nature are not tangible,expect as applied to
tangible substances,and yet how wonderful
are their forces when thus brought to bear
upon other objects. Just so with faith; in
itself intangible, yet most potent when ap-
plied to truths, to circumstances and to the
lives of individuals. Faith cannot be meas-
ured. The great manifestations of the power
of faith in healing the sick are marvels and
wonders to the unbelieving, whose minds
lacking this attribute, cannot comprehend
mysteries of the unseen which can only be
understood by the spiritual sense."
	I am sure there are many instances of
the power of faith in the healing of the sick,
that have never been told to our children,
that would promote the growth of faith were
they known. I will relate a very remark-
able one to which I was an eye witness
many years ago. A young lady about eigh-
teen years of age was thrown from a carriage
and her knee badly injured: her parents
being in good circumstances took her to
several of the best physicians in that part of
the State where it occurred; it was in Mass,
near the Conn. river These Doctors tried
their skill, but all failed to cure her and
they decided she must be a cripple for life
and compelled to walk with crutches. The
Mormon Elders came to that vicinity, the
parents of the young lady recieved and
obeyed the Gospel. They were anxious
their daughter should be healed by faith.
They brought her to be baptized believing
firmly she would be healed. After some
time, for she was a very aristocratic girl
and did not like to give up her position in
the world, she gave her consent to be bap-
tized. It was a very cold day, the brook
was frozen solid, a hole was cut in the ice,
and one after another went into the water,
and by and by, the lame girl with her
crutches come down to the water's edge.
The Elders baptized her, she walked out of
the water, whole, and never had occasion
to use her crutches after. The fact of her
being healed created quite a sensation, es-
pecially among the Doctors who came from
far and near to inquire by what means it
had been done. But none could gainsay it.
	This is only one of thousands of manifes-
tations of the power of healing.
	The children in Zion should seek after
mighty faith, for there are great works to
be accomplished by them. They have
been born in the holy priesthood and are
heirs to all the promises of the new and
everlasting covenant, and God is ready and
willing to pour out rich blessings upon
them if they will seek unto Him and keep
his holy commandments; and let us all
remember, without faith it is impossible to
please God.
