ROCHESTER (N. Y.) OBSERVATORY.
"The  Rochester  Democrat  and Chronicle,"
	Rochester, N. Y., has the following of the 
new institution soon  to  be  erected in  that
city and to be  devoted  solely to  astronom-
ical  observations.  Professor  Lewis  Swift,
who is to have charge of this, and for whose
use it is especially built, takes rank  among
the ablest astronomers  of our country—and
for that matter of that of any other country
—and is one who is the recipient of a val-
uable  gold  medal,  presented  him  by  the
Imperial Academy of Sciences at Berlin, for
being the one first to discover the comet of
1878:
	“That we will soon  have  in our city  an
observatory that will be a credit not only to
Rochester,  but  the state and  nation,  is
now an assured fact.  Its estimated cost ex-
clusive of instruments, is $25, 000, the quad-
rants,  sextants and octants;  transit,  equa-
torial, parallactic  and circular instruments,
achromatic and  reflecting telescopes,  night
and  day  telescopes, chronometers, &c., will
be an additional  expense,  and  will  cost
somewhere near $13,000.  This entire sum
$38,000. as well as other expenses necessary
to make the building  and  apparatus  com-
plete, will be generously  donated by H. H.
Warner, of the firm of H. H. Warner & Co.,
proprietors of the deservedly popular  War-
ner's safe kidney and liver  cure and other
remedies.
	As this is peculiarly a Rochester  institu-
tion, the money to build and equip  it being
furnished  by  one  of  our  most  respected
citizens, and as  our  own  Professor  Lewis
Swift is to have control of it,  we mention it
with pardonable pride.
	In compliment to the liberal donor it will
be  called  "Warner's  Observatory."  The
building is to combine the observatory pro-
per and the observer's dwelling,  and  will
be a fine architectural  structure, and  rank
as one of the most  complete private obser-
vatories  in  the  world.  The dome and
tower will be ample in dimension for  man-
ipulating the great telescope.  This will be
some  twenty-two feet  in  length, and  will
weigh  about  two  tons.  The  telescope (a
refractor) will  have a clear aperture  of six-
teen inches, and is to be provided  with  all
the  appliances  which  the  refinement of
modern astronomy demands.  But  two tel-
escopes in the United States will surpass it
in size, viz.: those at Washington  and  Chi-
cago."


