ST CHARLES.

	Minutes of the third Quarterly Conference
of the Ladies Relief Societies of the Bear
Lake Stake of Zion held in St. Charles
Meeting House the 28, and 29, of Feb. 1880.
28: 10 A.M. present on the stand Pres.
Julia P. Lindsay with her counselors Bish-
ops J. A. Hunt and Pugmire. Patriarch
James Works, Elders A. Galloway and
Andrew Jensen. After the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, minutes of the previ-
ous Conference were read and accepted. Sta-
tistical and Financial reports of the Relief
Societies and Primary Associations were
also read and accepted. President Lindsay
expressed the pleasure she felt in seeing so
many assembled in conference,was gratified
to have the brethren meet with us, said it
encouraged the sisters very much to see the
brethren take an interest in our affairs.
Herself and Counselors had visited( during
the past winter) almost all the Relief Socie-
ties and Primary Associations of this Stake.
Knew there was a growing interest
amongst the sisters, to attend their meet-
ings &c. Gave general instructions to the
Secretaries in regard to making out their
reports. Would be pleased to see the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT taken by the sisters and
circulated in all the families of the Saints.
Spoke of home industries &c. &.
	Sister E. Collings in her remarks said
our thoughts and actions are all known to 
our Father in heaven. We have to work
out our own salvation and not depend alto-
gether upon our husbands. Instructed the
sisters to guard carefully the children God
had commited to their care. Spoke of the
Associations now organized as all being
helps to qualify the young for the responsi-
ble places they will have to occupy in the
building up of God's kingdom; also of the
work we have to do for ourselves, and our
dead, when these Temples are finished;
hoped to live to see that day.
	Singing. Benediction, by A. Galloway.
	Feb. 28, 2 P. M. Meeting opened with
singing and prayer. Roll called of Presi-
dents and Counselors of Relief Societies and
Primary Associations, 19 present. The
president of the Relief Societies were called
upon to represent their respective organiza-
tions,which were very satisfactory, showing
that the sisters are doing a good work in
assisting the needy and trying to elevate
the state of society in our moral and every
day life. Sister Maria Rich desired an
interest in the faith and prayers of the
Saints, that she might be dictated by the
Spirit of God while addressing those pres-

[Column 2]

ent. Said the brethren may think this a
small affair, a sister's Conference; it was
not of our seeking. The presidency of this
Stake appointed it and placed it upon us to
travel through the Stake, visit the socie-
ties and instruct the sisters in their duties.
By the help of God herself and colaborers
would try and do their duty. Exhorted
the sisters to do all they could to build each
other up and not be watching for evil; avoid
fault finding and every thing that was cal-
culated to cause discord. Bishop J. Pug-
mire spoke of the way our young should be
trained, we want to train them to a better
and more elevated state than they are now
in. Thought the different associations
were very zealous and energetic in the good
work they are engaged in, also dwelt upon
the necessity of mothers teaching their
children correct principles. Bishop John
A. Hunt said he experienced great pleasure
while listening to the reports. It was
something new for the sisters to hold con-
ference; transact business, speak in meet-
ing. &c. &c., said there was great pleasure
in teaching and training the young, was
pleased to hear sisters speak who had many
years experience in this Church. Patriarch
James Works followed in a few words of
encouragement to the sisters regarding stor-
ing Grain. &c.
	Feb 28: 2 P. M. Pres. Lindsay in a few
words expressed her thanks to the brethren
for their encouraging words and the good
principles they advanced. It helped to
strengthen her in the discharge of her
duties. Asked the sisters to be united in
their faith and prayers that the Almighty
would turn away the sickness that is now
in our settlements hoped the sisters and
brethren would be punctual in attending
meeting to morrow.
	Singing. Benediction. Meeting was ad-
journed until 10 A. M. Feb. 29.
	Feb. 29:10 A. M. Young Ladies M. I. A.
occupied the forenoon.
	Feb, 29: 2 P. M. In addition to those
psesent on the stand the first day were Ap-
ostle C. C. Rich Pres. James H Hart and
George Osmond. Pres. Hart presented
the Stake and local officers of the Relief
Societies and Primary Associations to the
Conference. They were unanimously sus-
tained. Pres. Hart spoke of the advant-
ages to be gained from these organizations.
We are all organized and classified some
have capacity and ability for certain duties,
and others for other duties. It takes all of
us to make a perfect organization. Consid-
ered the storing of grain of great import-
ance alluded to the practice of gleaning as
being very ancient, brought up Ruth as an
example, also spoke of her illustrious de-
sendents, was pleased to see that the sisters
have succeeded so well in this direction said
the reports that had been read from the
different settlements were a guarantee of the 
energy and good faith of the sisters engaged
in this noble work; commended the Pres. of
the Stake and her counselors for their un-
ceasing effarts to do good.
	Feb. 29: 5 P. M. Pres. George Osmond
regretted not being present yesterday
showed the necessity of having the spirit of
God to assist us in all our labors. If an
evil existed in our midst it was our duty
to put that evil down; spoke of the influence
mothers have over the minds of thier
children, and how careful they should be in
educating and training their minds in all
th at was good and noble. Apostle C. C.
Rich addressed a few words of encourage-
ment to the Congregation said he believed
in practising his religion, encouraged all to
try and live the lives of Sains. Pres.
Lindsay spoke for a short time on the sub-

[Column 3]

ject of raising means in the Relief Societies
to help emigrate poor Saints from Europe
and gave other good instructions. Confer-
ence adjourned for six months
	Singing. Benediction, by Apostle C. C.
Rich.
	Report of the Primary Association of the
Bear Lake State of Zion from May 31, 1879
to Feb. 28,1880. No. of members 479,officers
48, Total officers and members 527; Meet-
ings held 149; Average attendacc 314.
Amount of means recieved. $30, 82.
Amount expended 2, 60 on hand $28, 22.
	JULIA P. LINDSAY, Pres. R. S. Stake.
	ELIZABETH COLLINGS.
	MARIE RICH.			Committee.
	ALICE M. RICH, Secretary,
	EMELINE RICH, Treasurer.

