OBITUARIES.

DIED, at Lewiston, Cache Co., Dec. 27, 1879,
Sister  Rhoda A. Allred,  alter  an  illness  of
nearly  two  years.  She was  born  March  15,
1834, in Upper Canada.  Has been a teacher in
the  Relief Society, which  position  she  filled
with honor to herself and interest to the So-
ciety.  She was well respected as a member of
this ward; and looked to the Lord in her afflic-
tions.							S. T.
At Alpine City, Utah Co., Feb. 29, 1880, at
the residence  of her  son-in-law, W. J. Strong,
of old age, Eliza Dyer Houston, wife of the late
Bishop Houtston, first Bishop of this place, aged
70 years, 1 month and 19 days.
Deceased  was  born  at  Stratford on-Avon,
England.  She emigrated with her only daugh-
ter in 1851, to St. Louis, and in 1852 came on to
Utah.  She was a member of the Birmingham
choir,and always delighted in singing the praises
of God. She was a member of the Birmingham
choir, and always delighted in singing the praises
of God. She was one of the Presidents of the 
Primary  Association  of  this  place, and  was
highly respected by  all who  knew  her.  She
lived  and died firm to the truth --Com.
DIED in Fairview, Sept. 11, 1879, Mary Pow-
ell Briggs, daughter of John and Mary Powell,
and wife of Robert Briggs.  Born in Mulmer-
shire, Lima, South Wales, on  the 5th  of Octo-
ber,  1822.  She emigrated  to  Utah  in  1866;
moved with her husband to  Fairview in  1867,
where she resided until her death.  She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint, taking an active part
with the Relief Society, being one of the grain
committee; and during her last illness she posi-
tively refused the assistance of learned physi-
cians,  relying  entirely  upon  the  administra-
tions of the Elders.  She died in full faith of
the Gospel  of Christ and in the hope of a glo-
rious resurrection.
LOIS A. WILSON, Cor. Sec't.

 DIED, at Marriot's Ward, Weber Co., Utah,
Feb. 28, 1880, from old  age, Sister  Sally  Had-
lock.  Deceased was born in the  State  of con-
necticut, Nov. 23, 1796,  making her age 83
years, 3 months and 5 days.  She moved from
her native State to  the  Town  of Jay, Orleans
Co., State  of Vermont,  where she  embraced
the Gospel in the year 1833.  She observed the
"Word of Wisdom"  from [--at] hearing  it
preached to her last; gathered to Kirtland, O.-
and went up to Missouri with what was called
the "Big  Camp;" shared with the Saints in
their drivings  from Missouri  to  Nauvoo, Ill;
was with them  in  their Exodus from  Nauvoo
to Pottawattamie, Iowa, where her companion
died.  She was then left with a large family to
care for, with  which  she crossed the plains in
1850, and settled in the fall of said year in Og-
den City, Weber Co.
 She was the mother of ten children, had
seventy-eight  grandchildren and twentry four
great-grand children.  She was a kind and af-
fectionate mother, full of integrity and firm in
the Gospel of  Jesus  Christ, and  fell  quietly
asleep with the bright assurance of a glorious
resurrection.		ANNE BICKINGTON.
We, the members of the Y. L. M. I. A. of 
Monroe, Sevier Co., subscribe this memorial of
respect to our departed sister, Olena Andersen,
daughter  of Oley Christian  and Anna Ander-
sen, of this place, who died Feb. 7, 1880, of ty-
phoid fever, after an illness of three weeks.
Olena  was  born  in Aalborge, Denmark, Feb.
18, 1864; her parents emigrated  to Utah while
she was only a babe.  She died aged 15 years,
11 months and 21 days.
 In memory of our much esteemed, respected
and beloved sister, who has been removed from
our midst by the hand of our Heavenly Fa-
ther, who giveth and taketh away at His own
will and  pleasure, she being a faithful member
of the Y. L. M. I. A., and  also a Counselor to
the President  of the  Primary  Association of
Monroe.
 Be it resolved, that the members of the As-
sociation  deeply mourn  her  loss, and  sympa-
thize with the bereaved parents, relatives and
friends in  the  loss  of so good and esteemed
friend, whose only regret on her dying bed was
that she had not had the privilege  of going to
the House of the Lord and  receiving her  en-
dowments.
Resolved, that we tender our  heartfelt sym-
pathy for the loss of so kind a companion and 
affectionate daughter.
Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
given  to  the  parents  of  the  deceased, and be
recorded in our general record book; and also 
furnished for publication  in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.
		LORENA E. WASHBURN, Pres't.
		JULIA LARSEN, Counselors.
