	THE NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE AS-
SOCIATION will hold its twelfth Annual
Convention in Masonic Hall, corner of
Washington and Tennessee Sts., Indiana-
polis, Ind., Tuesday and Wednesday, May
25th and 26th, 1880. * * *
	The National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion was founded upon the basis of individ-
ual rights in self-government, and of Na-
tional protection of national citizens in the
exercise of these rights. * * *
	What is a vote but an authoritative ex-
pression of opinion, and yet for the hundred
years and more of our country's life, in
every State and Territory woman has been
counted in the basis of representation, to
swell the power of one or the other of the
parties in Congress and the country, while
her rights of self-government have been
"trampled out and ignored." * * *
	From this Convention must go out  our
demand for the insertion of the following
plank in the platform of each party.
	Resolved. That the right to the use of
the ballot inheres in the citizen of the
United States, and we pledge ourselves to
secure protection in the exercise of this
right to all citizens irrespective of sex.
Friends of Woman Suffrage from over
the country are earnestly pressed to come to
this Convention. Let no matter of mere
personal convenience or inconvenience, pre-
vent your presence. It is a duty you owe
yourself, your sex, your country and the
world.
	Every effort for the comfort of delegates
will be made by the Indianapolis Equal
Suffrage Society, which will consider the
National Association as its guest during the
Convention. The hall selected is large and
abundantly provided with committee
rooms; and every preparation will be made
for the quick dispatch of business. Dele-
gates and speakers will be entertained, and
the address of the lady entertainer with a
note of introduction will be sent to every
delegate who makes known her design to
attend the Convention, so that at any hour
of arrival the guest will be expected, and
go directly to the address furnished.
Delegates fram all States and local socie-
ties, or other suffragists who expect to at-
tend the Convention, are requested to at
once communicate their intention to Mrs
May Wright Thompson,Sec'y. E. S. Society,
651 N.Alabama street, Indianapolis,Ind., in
whose charge these arrangements are placed
This Society will bend all its energies to
giving the National Association the best
possible opportunities for a successful Con-
vention.
	All letters and contributions for the Con-
vention should be addressed to Mrs. Thomp-
son, as above. Notice of preliminary meet-
ings will be given hereafter.
	On behalf of the National Woman Suffrage
Association.
	MATILDA JOSLYN, GAGE, Ch'm'n. Ex.
Com. SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice Pres't at
large. SARA ANDREWS SPENCER, Cor. Sec-
retary.


