

Birthday Congratulations President David O. McKay September 8, 1969 The women of the Church throughout the world, in all dominions where the stakes and missions have been organized, remember with love and gratitude the ninety-sixth birthday of President David - O. McKay—prophet, seer, and revelator. Over the years the example of his life and his teachings has been a beacon and an inspiration to the saints in every land. His steadfast devotion to the gospel as a way of life has illuminated the pathway for individuals, for the families, and for the Church. In a time of world-wide questioning, in an age of multiple directions, in an era of divided allegiance, President McKay has demonstrated spiritual strength, wise counsel, discerning judgment, an uplifted, though humble spirit, and a living faith that transcends life upon the earth, reaches back into the plans and purposes of pre-existence, and looks forward to the glorious eternal life. President McKay has said: "Faith is the eternal light that will dispel threatening clouds. Faith in man is the power that leads to brotherhood; faith in God, the ladder which men climb toward perfection." In his teachings President McKay has emphasized that reverence for God and sacred observances is characteristic of a great soul. Truly, our Prophet, in himself, is a testimony of the gospel as a way of eternal life. "My faith gives me the assurance that God is indeed my father and therefore I must have inherited his immortality." Spirituality, he has said, is the highest acquisition of the soul. As Relief Society women—homemakers, wives, and mothers—at this time of special remembrance—this day of heartfelt gratitude —we recall the inspired counsel that President McKay has given for us in our time and place. In his home and with his family he has exemplified sincerity and devotion. "The dearest possession a man has is his family. In the divine assurance that family ties may transcend the boundaries of death, and may continue through endless ages of eternity, I find supreme consolation and inspiration. When the union of loved ones bears the seal of the Holy Priesthood, it is as eternal as love, as everlasting as spirit." As Relief Society women, we express thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for giving us a Prophet in these latter days—who speaks and lives as directed and inspired by the Spirit of God. 641 

The: Relic SOCIChY Magazine Volume 56 September 1969 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 641 Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 644 Indians of Guatemala Milton R. Hunter 670 Rome Jean A. Jensen Fiction 654 Gramps' Best Behavior Helen H. Trutton 665 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 4 Alice Morrey Bailey 694 The Universal Language Ardean T. Loertscher General Features 642 From Near and Far 661 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 662 Editorial—Turn to the Fathers Vesta P. Crawford 664 In Memoriam—Mildred Bennion Eyring 696 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 720 Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 676 Artin the Home Grayce E. Cutler 680 Handicrafts For the Home Annetta S. Mower 682 A Bazaar Designed Especially For Children 684 "Springtime in the Park''—Unique Bazaar in Indianapolis Stake 685 British Women Make a Union Jack Design in Knitting 686 Nut Cups for the Party Alice Elizabeth Oertle 693 Hobby Features—Emily Olsen and Nellie Green Howard Lesson Department 704 Spiritual Living—Government and Laws Roy W. Doxey 710 Visiting Teacher Message—The Compassion of Jesus Alice Colton Smith 711 Homemaking—''The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her'' Celestia J. Taylor 713 Social Relations—The Upward Reach Alberta H. Christensen 717 Cultural Refinement—No Lesson Planned for December 689 'The Blind Girl' by John Everett Millais—for Lesson 5 Floyd E. Breinholt 690 'Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte'' by Georges Seurat—for Lesson 6 Floyd E. Breinholt Poetry Return to September, Pansye H. Powell 653; Late September, Gladys Hesser Burnham 660; Farewell to Summer, Linda Houston 664; Leaves, Beulah Huish Sadleir 691; First Day of School, Christie Lund Coles 695; Courage, Hazel E. Shaw 719. Shaw 719. The Cover: High Plateaus Above Sanpete Valley, Utah; Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press. Art Layout: Dick Scopes. Lustrations: Mary Scopes. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

643 Indians of GDACEMALA Elder Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of Seventy Photographs by the Author w Of the hundreds of different Indian tribes and groups in South America, Central America, Mexico, and North America, none is more colorful than the Indians in Guatemala. There are three and one-half million people in that country. More than fifty per cent of them are full blood Indians. Practically all of these Indians are Mayas, although of different tribes. The Quiché Mayas are the most numerous of the Indians of Guatemala. The Spaniards conquered Guatemala in 1524. As soon as possible after the conquest, the Catholic padres directed the erecting of cathedrals for the Indians. Also, they did all they could to convert the natives to Christianity. A concentrated effort was made to teach the Indians the Spanish language and to replace their religion with the Catholic brand of Christianity. Four hundred years' time have passed since the Spanish conquest and the Indians of Guatemala still hold to many of their ancient religious beliefs and customs. They have even retained their ancient Indian dialects in spite of all the efforts put forth by the Spaniards to change them. The Indian men usually learn 644 1 a Ome s Elder Milton R. Hunter to speak Spanish in addition to their Indian language. This they do as a matter of necessity in making a livelihood. The Indian women, however, usually know only the Indian dialect such as Quiché or Cakchiquel. The Indians feel that their race and culture are superior to that of the white men whom they consider to be the invaders and trespassers in the land; and so they tenaciously hang on to their ancient language and tradi- Quiché Maya women at Chichicastenango market tions. The Quiché Mayas have an admirable system of family life following about the same pattern as the ancient Hebrews with the father as head of the family. They, as a rule, are a good people. As we travel northward from Guatemala City, we enter the highland regions. Surrounding Lake Atitl4n are a number of colorful highland Indian villages. We observe that in these villages and in the other Indian communities in the highlands farther north all the men in each village are dressed exactly alike and all the women are also dressed exactly alike as to color, fabric, and all details of their costumes, even to the beads the women wear. We note also that the clothing of the Indians of each community is distinctly different from that of any other village. If one stays in Guatemala long enough, whenever or wherever he meets an Indian he can tell what town the native is from by his clothing. The Indians do their own weaving on hand looms. They use many bright colors in their Cakchiquel Indian woman weaving at Santiago September 1969 clothing. They wear the same type of clothing that their ancestors have worn for generations back. I have wondered as I have observed them if their type of weaving went back to Book of Mormon days and if the designs in their clothing had been handed down from that period The Book of Mormon claims that the Nephites were expert weavers. A few hours' drive from Guatemala City in the highland region lies the spectacular Lake Atitlan. As we come around the bend in the road we see nestled in a valley one of the most beautiful mountain lakes in the world. For sheer magnificence and beauty, Lake Atitlan is surpassed by no other mountain body of water. A feature which makes it so spectacular is the fact that it is surrounded by four or five majestic, inactive volcanoes, each cone-shaped and extending to a peak up into the blue heavens. The reflection extends the peaks into the clear water of the lake. Of course, we must stay in the hotel on the shores of the lake Quiché Maya woman weaving that night and arrange for a boat to take us across Lake Atitlan to Santiago the following morning, to visit the Cakchiquel Indians and their famous market. It takes a full hour to cross the lake of blue, placid water. The boat ride is an enjoyable experience. Fight o'clock any day of the week is an excellent time to arrive at Santiago, because the Cakchiquels hold their market during the morning hours daily. A few hundred Indians meet on the public plaza in front of the cathedral, to sel] their wares or trade their goods with each other. Regular market-day attire. To us they appear most colorfully dressed in their brilliant native costumes. To observe them trading their §00ds and to Photograph them is a thrilling experience. Most of the women like to be photographed: In fact, the young- €r women follow us to the boat when we are leaving, to get us to take more Pictures of them. Many of the men, however, turn Typical Indian market scene se $ wag'? 4; oY ae? A iz Cakchiquels at Santiago Market carry on their back all] the goods that they are 80ing to trade or Sell at the market. One Quiché September 1969 Indians begin arriving shortly before daybreak. They set up their booths and display their merchandise often on the ground. They spend the day until midafternoon in trading, as well as in worshiping in the Catholic cathedral, in the Indian cathedral, and at a pagan idol on the top of a nearby hill. The Quiché men burn incense and kneel on the cathedral steps in prayer, believing that the smoke from the incense will take their prayers to heaven. In worshiping inside of either cathedral, the Indians place their seed corn on the floor. Then they place candles by it and also petals of various colors of roses. Each color represents a different request to God in their prayers. The family kneels around the objects they have spread on the floor. Then one of the older men of the family, or some other man whose prayers the family feels will be answered, offers long supplications for the family in which all blessings are numerated to the Lord. Seven of the Twelve Quiché High Priests Santo Tomas Cathedral and Quiché worshipers The first time I went to Chichicastenango, I was puzzled when the guide told us that each large group kneeling together— Quiché Indian Cathedral sometimes thirty-five or more people—constituted only a single family. Then he explained that a Quiché Maya family was patterned after the patriarchal order with the grandfather and grandmother and all of their posterity constituting a family. It seemed to me that this was very significant. The family was also organized under the patriarchal order in ancient. Biblical and Book of Mormon times. This would indicate another tie between the Quiché-Lamanites and the people of the Book of Mormon. Market day at Chichicastenango ry There are twelve high priests who preside over the religion of the Quichés and direct their religious worship, with headquarters at Chichicastenango. I was informed that the system of having twelve high priests is very, very old, dating back generations, long before the coming of the Spaniards. Definitely it is not Catholic September 1969 in origin. There is only one logical place to look for its origin—the Book of Mormon period. The Nephites had twelve apostles in the Church of Jesus Christ in ancient America. The Indians of Guatemala retained many teachings and practices which were handed down from Book of Mormon days. Of course by now they are much altered and adulterated, but they have a resemblance to the truth. For example, they claim to have priesthood. They practice baptism, but in many places they baptize by taking the devotees under waterfalls. The priest performs marriage ceremonies for the righteous Quiché Mayas in which they believe he marries them for life and eternity. Those Indians who are not righteous the priest refuses to marry. They are obliged to have a civil ceremony performed which is only for this life. An elderly lady who was a tradition-bearer of the Quiché Mayas told me about fifteen years ago about all of these Indian religious beliefs and practices. She said they all predated the Spanish conquest; in fact, they were inherited from their ancestors. Personally, I agree with her explanation and believe that their origin was the true gospel during the Book of Mormon period. Changes came as the Nephites and Lamanites lost much truth through apostasy, especially after the close of the Book of Mormon period. On a certain occasion I was on a train going from Guatemala City to Quirigua, an ancient archaeological ruin. A good-looking, intelligent, middle-aged Indian woman came over and 650 sat by me. She could speak English. She introduced herself. She said she was a Quiché Maya woman from Totonicapan. She then gave me an account of her conversion to the Church. She said: "When I was a girl about twelve years of age many years before Mormon missionaries first came to Guatemala, two strange men came to Totonicapan. They were dressed differently from our people. They were much larger in stature than our people and in skin color much whiter. They called the people of 'Totonicapan together in the street and talked to them. I remembered distinctly that their principle message was that the Lord had restored his true church to earth again. It would soon be sent to our people. We would be able to recognize the true Church by the messengers who brought it to us. They would be young men traveling by twos. When the Mormon elders came I was a grown woman. I immediately recalled the experience I had had when I was a child. I knew for sure that the elders were the messengers with the true religion, and so I joined the Church." In January 1959, I toured the Central American Mission with President and Sister Wagner. We held a meeting at Patzicia, not far from Lake Atitlan. We called on Brother Daniel Mich, a Cakchiquel Maya Indian and a recent convert to the Church, to bear his testimony and to tell of his conversion to the Church. He had had a remarkable experience. This is the essence of his story: A few years ago some of the Indians rebelled against the government officials, who were primarily of Spanish blood. The government officials decided to put to death all of the people who had participated in the rebellion at Patzicia, especially those who had instigated it. Daniel Mich had taken no part in the rebellion; however, the government officials thought that he was guilty and had him on the list to be killed. The Spinit of God whispered to him and told him and his brother to flee to the mountains and hide in a certain place. If they did not they would be killed. They followed the instructions of the Holy Spirit. As they arrived in the hiding place suggested by the Spirit they lay on a ledge and looked over the precipice. Below them they could see the government officials searching for them along the mountainside. Many Indians were captured and put to death. Daniel Mich and his brother stayed in their mountain hide-out for two full years. Food was brought to them by friends. Finally they were captured. Conditions had changed during the two years to the extent that the Mich brothers were not killed but were thrown into prison. They lived under the most terrible conditions in prison for four long years. Their clothing wore out. It was cold, and the jail was unheated. They were given very little food; in fact, they nearly starved to death. And to make matters worse, Daniel Mich received word from his wife that she and the children were also starving. During the two years of his hiding and the four years of his imprisonment, Indians of Guatemala they had not been able to make a livelihood. In desperation and in deep grief, Daniel Mich kneeled down and prayed to God, pleading that the Eternal Father would be merciful to him and let him die. He also prayed that the Lord would extend his mercies to his wife and children, that they also might soon die. He pleaded with God to release him and his family members from the misery and suffering that they were having to endure. But the Lord did not answer Daniel Mich's prayer as he had asked it. He did not let him die. Instead, Daniel Mich had a vision, or a dream. In his vision he was climbing the side of a steep mountain on a well-defined trail. He came to a place where a side trail forked off the main one. A man stood on the side trail and said, "Follow me." Daniel Mich replied, "No, I cannot follow you. I must follow this trail straight ahead." He went some distance farther and another man stood on another side trail, and said, "Follow me." Once again Daniel Mich replied, "No, I cannot follow you. I must go straight ahead." This experience repeated itself three or four times. Daniel Mich explained: "Finally Icame to the summit and there standing in front of me was a tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair. He had a kindly and beautiful smile. This man said to me, 'Daniel, follow me.' I replied, 'I will follow you,' because as I made that remark, the Spirit of God whispered to me and said, 'That man has the truth.' " 651 September 1969 comets ' heheneal 7 Y aan. AIT T TIONG 5 " He re <. THY es "< om, ~ Cloth displayed at market Daniel Mich and his brother were released from jail shortly after Daniel had had this dream or vision. The Mich brothers returned to their homes in Patzicia. Soon thereafter and perhaps about a year before my visit to Guatemala, missionaries came to Patzicia. A few days after their arrival, the mayor sent for them to come to his office. When the missionaries arrived, they saw two hundred or more angry Indians crowded in front of the mayor's office. As the missionaries approached, the crowd of Indians opened a pathway and the missionaries walked on into the mayor's office. The elders asked the mayor what he wanted of them. He replied that he had a petition signed by two hundred citizens of the community demanding A? That the missionaries leave town immediately and cease teaching their religion in Patzicia. The elders replied that they would not leave Patzicia until their mission president transferred them to some other place. One of the missionaries suggested that the mayor telephone the governor and perhaps the governor would instruct him regarding the missionaries. The mayor immediately telephoned the governor and explained the situation. The governor emphatically instructed the mayor to let the Mormon missionaries alone, that they had a right to preach in Guatemala. He explained that they had religious freedom in Guatemala. Daniel Mich was with the people in front of the mayor's office waiting to see what happened to the missionaries. The mayor released the two elders. As they left his: office, Brother Mich invited the missionaries to come to his home and teach him the gospel. They had taught him only three or four lessons when an important event occurred. One day in the midst of one of the lessons, one of the missionaries opened his book and Daniel Mich saw a photograph of a tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair. Brother Mich immediately and excitedly exclaimed. "This is the man! It is he whom I saw!" Of course the missionaries wondered what he was talking about and he told them the story that I have accounted herein. Then Brother Mich asked, "Who is the man whose photograph you have in your book?" "His nameis David O. McKay," the missionaries replied, "God's prophet, seer, and revelator and the President of The Church of Jesus Christ. He holds the keys of the kingdom of God on earth at the present time." Brother Mich iold us that he replied to the missionaries: "IT know that all the things you have told me are true. I know that you are missionaries of the true Church of Jesus Christ. At the time that the tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair— who you told me was President David O. McKay—said to me, 'Daniel, follow me,' the Spirit of the Lord whispered to me and said, "'wo young men will bring you the truth.' Since you came into our town I have continued to watch you. Now all things I believe have been proven to be true. David O. McKay is a prophet of God and you have the true religion of Jesus Christ, and so," he continued, "I asked the elders to baptize me. This is how I was brought into the Church." Brother Daniel Mich had related the story of his life, his dream, and its fulfillment in joining the Church. While he was telling his wonderful experiences, tears rolled down his cheeks. As he completed his _ testimony, there was not a dry eye in the house. The Spirit of God was there in great abundance. Neary two years ago Dr. Robert Blair, Chairman of the Department of Linguistics, and seventeen BYU students had been down in Guatemala to study the Cakchiquel language and to transcribe it phonetically, ToIndians of Guatemala ward fall they returned to the BYU and brought with them Daniel Mich and Manuel Ismuel Tay from Solola, a town near Lake Atitlan. These faithful men stayed at BYU for a year. The Cakchiquel is a language in which books are practically unavailable. The purpose Dr. Blair and his students had in going to Guatemala was to study Cakchiquel and get The Book of Mormon trarislated into that language. The Cakchiquel Indians do not know how to read nor write. Under the direction of Dr. Blair at the BYU, Daniel Mich and Manuel Tay translated The Book of Mormon into Cakchiquel and put it on tape. Also, Brother Mich and Brother Tay translated The Joseph Smith Story and parts of the New Testament and put them on tape. They also recorded stories of their lives. This was a great contribution that these good Cakchiquel men have madein making possiblethe teaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ to approximately 50,000 Cakchiquels in Guatemala. The Indians of that land who speak Cakchiquel can listen to the recordings and learn the Book of Mormon and New Testament stories. These translations of Cakchiquel should provide a great missionary tool. The Indians of Guatemala have been throughout the past as colorful as any Indians in the Americas. The Spirit of the Lord is working upon them. Hundreds of them are receiving the gospel. They are a humble, a spiritual people, and a_ joyful group to be with. 653 Gramps' Best Behavior m There were a dozen things she should be doing, Naomi thought—icing the cake she had baked earlier in the day and left to cool, the kitchen floor to be waxed, and the porch swept, probably scrubbed. She could go on and on, but she sat with Myra's note spread out in front of her. Myra had always been such a loyal one—it wasn't like her to make such a request. She gathered up the letter and read again slowly. Dear Mom, I'm bringing David and his grandfather home with me to meet the family. Oh, Mom, he's so wonderful, it's important that everything goes well. David means a great deal to me. I want you all to like him, and I want him to like everyone. Mom, would you think I was terribly unkind if I suggested that Gramps visit Uncle Bill over the week end? I'm just 654 Helen H. Trutton not sure if the present is the right time for David to meet him. Don't misunderstand me, you know how I love Gramps. Love, Myra P. S. We should be home late Friday afternoon. Naomi scooped up the letter and tucked it in her apron pocket before strolling to the large French doors that opened upon the backyard. Wonderful Gramps, she thought, he's been a tower of strength to us all. How could she ever have managed without him when Walter died? What was it Walter used to say about his father? "Pa's a discerning one— only the genuine survive him." Naomi thought, Myra's afraid Gramps and David won't hit it off. She hasn't forgotten the Darrel Murch incident. Darrel was her first beau in high school. He had dared to ridicule Gramps and his pioneer tales Gramps loved to tell. Myra had never gone with Darrel again. She drew upon the paneled glass doors to let in soft spring breezes scented with lilacs and roses. I'm not going to hurt Gramps—I just can't. If things are serious between David and Myra, he may as well meet all the family at one time. A bushy shock of gray hair appeared suddenly around the rose bush catching her gaze. She smiled—that was really the most distinguishable feature about Gramps, his hair, and next you noticed that his kindly gray eyes were almost the same color. When he edged a little nearer the patio, she called to him. "Gramps, you've worked long enough. Ill get you a glass of cool lemonade." "Wow, thanks, Mom," Mike stuck his head around the other side of the bush. "Gramps sure works a guy—spring vacation, ha!" "It's good for you, boy. Most folks nowadays are too puny. Why, back in my day and when your Pa was young, this was play." Mike grunted. That lemonade?" "I have some fresh made in the refrigerator. I'll get it." "Let me," Mike said, and he disappeared around the corner of the house. Gramps stood up. He was tall, his years had not bent him in the least. "Thought I saw the mailman coming down the street. Did you hear from Myra?" "Yes, a short note." His eyes brightened. "Is pie "Mom, about Gramps' Best Behavior coming home this week end?" "Yes, and bringing two guests." "Two, eh?" Naomi walked out onto the patio and sat down in a chair, motioning him to sit opposite her. "She's bringing a young man she met at college and his grandfather, David Stewart, she's mentioned him frequently." "IT know. The grandpa's a professor, isn't he?" "Yes, I think he teaches history at the university. David has lived with him since his parents' death several years ago." "History's my speciality." "What about history?" Mike asked as he returned with a pitcher and three glasses. "Myra is inviting her friend and his grandpa here," Gramps answered. "We should have an interesting time." "'m glad Ill be away at camp. Girls act so—so silly." "That's no way to talk about your sister," the old man said. "From what I hear, Myra likes him a heap." "Yes, she does,' Naomi answered. Looking directly at Gramps. "We've all got to be on our best behavior." Mike slipped into a _ chair, sipping his lemonade. "Wow, remember when Darrel Murch came to see Myra, Gramps? You scared him clear off the place." "Mike!" Naomi said sharply. "You're exaggerating." "Maybe he didn't exactly scare him, but he sure never came back." "It was just as well,' Gramps said. "Yeah, he was a snob. Imagine laughing at Gramps' stories, and 655 September 1969 saying he just made them up." Naomi put her glass down. "Mike, let's change the subject. I'm quite sure David won't be anything like the Murch boy." "Well, I should hope not," Gramps said firmly. "He wasn't right for our Myra." "That was four years ago," Naomi said. "Myra's a grown young lady now." "Not to me she's still a little girl, but I reckon if she's gone and found the one she wants, I'll do my best to like him," Gramps said as he got to his feet and handed her his empty glass. "I'd better get back to my job so I'll be finished when they get here." "Say, Gramps, you could go camping with me if you want to," Mike said, joining him back at the rosebush. "Then if you don't like him." "No, Siree,"' Gramps stated emphatically. "I wouldn't miss meeting the two for anything. Not 'all the king's horses' could drag me away today." "Just thought I'd ask,' Mike said, "sorry I have to leave you Gramps, and gather up my camping stuff right away." "And I must get busy," Naomi said, arising from her chair. "Mike, try to get home early enough tomorrow to spend some time with your sister and meet her friends." "All right, Mom." WA, I have my answer from Gramps, Naomi thought as she returned to the kitchen. He's spending the week end right here, and that was that. She took a dish from the cupboard. Naturally he wants to meet David. She 656 didn't blame him, but Myra had a point, too. For a moment she lowered her head. "Dear Father in heaven, help us to work things out without hurting anyone." She felt better immediately. I've been being too melodramatic she told herself while she beat the cake icing. What could possibly happen? Myra was worrying about something that happened years ago when the Murch boy was going through a smarty stage. But supposing Gramps didn't like David? He wasn't exactly the silent type about his dislikes—but Walter was right about his father, "Only the genuine survive him'—and if the young man wasn't fine. Since Myra had been attending the university, David was the first young man she had invited home. Myra must be fond of him; he must be someone extra special, Naomi reflected. She poured a large portion of the creamy white frosting on the cake and dabbed the sides. If he isn't genuine, Gramps, with his keen insight of human nature, would—why was she crossing bridges she might never come to? She had faith in her daughter's judgment—David would be all Myra had said he was and more. "Can I help?" Gramps poked his head around the kitchen door just as she finished decorating the cake. "I'm through in the yard." "Thank you, manage very well." "Then reckon Ill clean up a bit. I don't want the tyke to be ashamed of her old grampa." "As if she could be," Naomi laughed. Gramps. [ll The afternoon simply flew; she was glad of that. And surely I haven't even had time to think about David's grandfather, Naomi thought as she sat down on the davenport to relax and await her guests. I just hope Gramps and he will like each other. She didn't have long to wonder. At a quarter to five she saw them turn in at the driveway and stop. She hurried out the door to find Gramps already waiting for them. "Hello," Myra called happily. "How are you?" Gramps opened the car door. "Fit as a fiddle. This must be...." "This is David Stewart, and - his* grandfather—and this is Gramps and my mother," she said. "Well, now it's mighty nice meeting you both," Gramps said, extending his hand. "We're delighted to meet you. Please come in,' Naomi said cordially. "I hope you don't mind my tagging along with David and Myra," Mr. Stewart~ remarked as he crawled from the car. -~"T should say not,' Gramps cut in before she had a chance to answer. "Understand you're a history teacher?" "Ves." "History's my favorite subject." He chuckled. "I've lived through quite a speck of it." "You and Grandfather will hit it off famously," David said. "If it's history, Grandfather is interested." Just for an instant, Naomi saw a frightened look in Myra's eyes, but she quickly recovered and smiled at David. Gramps' Best Behavior "Shall we go in?" "It seems like yesterday Myra was a little tyke, and I carried her around piggy-back. Now here she is a young lady,' Gramps volunteered on the way to the house. "Oh, Gramps," Myra said, her face coloring slightly. "It's really been quite awhile." "T guess it just seems that way to an old man," he said sadly. Si. Slipped her arms around his waist. "It's nice to remember, Gramps. And it was fun," she whispered. Naomismiled. How quickly she responds when she thinks she has hurt him! "My father-in-law will show you two to your room," Naomi said, "and Myra can share my room. [ll help you with your load, dear." "Might as well put your bags in your room now," Gramps said, leading the way to the stairs. "Right this way." 'Naomi turned to her daughter when they were alone in their room. "I hope you understand. Gramps wouldn't miss seeing you, and he wanted so much to meet David—I couldn't break his heart." _Myra sat down. "I know, Mom. I felt like a traitor asking such a thing. I just don't want anything to go wrong." "Nothing will. You are the last person in the world Gramps would want to hurt." "I know that, Mother. He wouldn't mean to, but I keep remembering—Darrel Murch." "That was several years ago. You didn't really care for him, did you?" 657 September 1969 "No, of course not, but David's different." "Does he mean so much to you?" "T'm—I'm hoping—dreaming he will propose—maybe here." Naomi took her daughter's hand in hers. "Are you sure he's the right one?" "I'm very sure, Mother." She kissed her daughter. "Then I hope he loves you, too. Now we'd better go downstairs and finish dinner." "What's the menu?" Naomi smiled. "Things I thought your guests would like— fried chicken, mashed potatoes, hot bisquits, cake, and all the rest." "Sounds great. Good food, plus pleasant conversation, I trust,' Myra said hopefully. "The evening will go well." She was right, too. Myra and David kept a steady conversation going about school, mutual friends and Church activities. Gramps sat straight in his chair listening to every comment made by David, ready to pounce on any provocative statement, while Brother Stewart, a little more subtle, was just as concerned about the welfare of his only grandson. How she wished she could read their minds, or did she? The two young people didn't seem the least concerned. A was after dinner when they were in the living room that Gramps ran his fingers through his hair, as he often did when he had a point to make, and looked directly at David. "This modern generation, I don't think they have much purpose in life. Why, when I was a boy, we knew." 658 "Well, Sir, I guess each generation thinks it's the best. I don't agree with you that your generation had more purpose. I think the young people of today probably both right; each generation has its problems, and its aspirations, too." "Folks are soft today. Believe me in my day you didn't live if.". "We try to meet the challenge of our day, Sir. True, we aren't called to walk across the plains like many of our ancestors, but I'll wager if we were called upon to do that today, we'd manage." Gramps raised his eyebrows. "You don't agree with me on much of anything, do you, Son?" "If you mean about our generation, I'm afraid I don't. Oh, I know there are slackers today, but there were in your time, too." "Let's change the subject," Naomi said. Myra looked worried. "Yes, let's do," she said. "T find the subject stimulating," Brother Stewart remarked. "You know, Brother Lawes, I have some interesting memories of our day, too." "IT remember when I was a boy,' Gramps began, and the conversation continued until bedtime—probably way beyond. Naomi and Myra could hear them talking long after they had retired. "Oh, Mom," Myra buried her head in the pillow. "David will never, never, accept another invitation. He must be terribly bored." "If he loves you, I doubt if a little boring discussion will exactly frighten him away. Besides, I thought he rather enjoyed it." "Gramps doesn't like him.' "Don't be so sure." Myra turned over in_ bed. "Gramps seems so deliberate...." "He's concerned and I think he feels needed in protecting his granddaughter's interest. Be tolerant, darling. David will understand. Remember, he has a grandfather, too." Early the next morning Naomi heard the three of them tiptoe past the door and go quietly downstairs. She nudged Myra. "We'd better get up, too." "Isn't it terribly early?" asked sleepily. "Gramps never sleeps late." When they went downstairs a few minutes later, they were surprised to see Brother Stewart and David out on the patio alone. Brother Stewart was bent over laughing and David was writing. "They certainly seem cheerful," Naomi commented. "At least Brother Stewart." Myra looked puzzled. "He is always serious at school." "Something has struck him funny." Myra watched them for several more minutes, then she turned to her. 'Maybe they're laughing at Gramps." "Of course they're not." "Then why isn't Gramps with them? If I thought they were ridiculing his stories—like Darrel Murch did—I'd—I'd—" "I'm sure they aren't." "Poor Gramps." She flung the apron she had just started to put on across the room and banged TX "I know, Mom. Goodnight." @ yi, L&E, Gramps' Best Behavior out the door. "Where's Gramps?" she asked coldly as she swung past the two startled men. Brother Stewart had stopped laughing as he pointed to the backyard. "Out there," he said. David stared after her. IDA Sy SEG os. / bp \\\ BN | Naomi followed, then stopped abruptly when she saw Gramps sitting forlornly in an old chair at the edge of the yard whittling on a piece of wood. "Oh, no," she cried. Myra was _ night; g 'Gramps had been hurt again— and it was her fault; she should have insisted.... She watched, unable to move, as Myra ran to his side and knelt beside him, resting her head on his knees. "Gramps," she whispered. "Dear Gramps, I'm sorry." 659 September 1969 Absent-mindedly he _ ruffled her hair. "Don't bother me, tyke," he said. "What's wrong?" Naomi managed to ask. After a long wait, he looked at her through his kindly gray eyes. "That young man _ has asked for my granddaughter's hand I'm deciding." Then he turned toward the patio. "Come on out here, David," he called. Myra appeared stunned as she stood up, looking from Gramps to David. Brother Stewart joined them, holding up a piece of paper. "Your Grandfather and I have been collaborating a big share of the night on a book on pioneer life. He told me some humorous accounts that should make our book invaluable. I've never laughed so much." Naomi saw the color come back into her daughter's face. She swallowed several times, then bent down and asked in a low voice. "What are you deciding, Gramps?" "Well sir," he grinned up at her. "I reckon if I'd personally looked the whole university over, I wouldn't have come up with a better grandson." "Thank you, Sir," David said. "Could—could I talk to you,. Myra?"' Brother Stewart smiled happily at the two as he returned to the patio with his notes, and Naomi was alone with Gramps. He glanced up at her with an impish grin, his bright eyes shining. "By the way, Naomi," he asked, "how's my behavior? Personally, I don't think it's so bad." She laughed. "Not bad, but I'll admit I was rather worried last night. You gave that young man a rough time." He slipped his whittling knife back in his pocket. "Well, now," he drawled, "how you going to know what a fellow is really like —if you don't have a little friendly discussion? You can't get anywhere with just plain parlor talk. Leastways, I never could." She gave him a big hug as Walter's words flowed back into her mind. "Pa's a_ discerning one—only the genuine survive him." Well, David Stewart had survived him, and she was glad. So LATE SEPTEMBER This day is tangy sweet with ripening fruit, Shade-cool, but blazing hot in open sun. Such tawny autumn colors, glowing warm, Hold all of summer's loveliness, as one Arrayed in beauty flings her charms about Or scents the ditchbank, field, and streams. Late roses vie with apples, red and gold, To rouse nostalgic thoughts. It often seems Through winter cold and snow, let us remember, This time of dreams and warmth in late September. 660 —Gladys Hesser Burnham a Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, in June was given special honor and a gold pendant in recognition of her leadership in supporting the March of Dimes program of the National Foundation, which sponsors clinical research, a nationwide network of Birth Defects Centers, professional and public education, and other well organized and important activities. In presenting the pendant to President Spafford, Mrs. Elaine Whitelaw, National Director of Volunteer Service, emphasized the influence and leadership of President Spafford in writing letters, promoting programs, and supporting a wide publicity for the Foundation. Mrs. Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, and State Director of Volunteer Services, sponsored the special honor for President Spafford. Mrs. LaVern W. Parmley, President of the Primary Association of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who, last year was named a member of the National Scouting Committee, has been named a member at large of the National Council of Boy Scouts. She is the first woman appointed to a National Scouting Committee. She was also invited to serve on the Cub Scout Committee and the Relationships Committee of the Boy Scouts. Mrs. LeGrand B. Pratt (Kathryn Kay), Claire W. Noall, Lael W. Hill, Alice Morrey Bailey, Christie Lund Coles, Olive W. Burt, Dora D. Flack, Marilyn McMeen Miller, Ruth G. Rothe, and Hazel Loomis, all contributors to The Relief Society Magazine, won awards in June in the annual Utah State Institute of Fine Arts Original Writing Contest. Mrs. Ann W. Hafen, Latter-day Saint historian, author, and critic, delivered an address ''Poetry for Pleasure' at the annual convention of the National Federation of State Poetry Societies, in Boise, Idaho, in June. Other Latter-day Saint women participating in the convention were Mrs. Chrissie Tullis, President of the Gem State Writers Guild, and her daughterin-law Katie Tullis who played two of her own piano compositions at the banquet. Vesta P. Crawford, President of the Utah State Poetry Society, and Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine; Alice Morrey Bailey, Vice-President of the Utah State Poetry Society and Kathryn Kay, Director of Publications and Public Relations, represented Utah as delegates. Mrs. Jean Jenkins, Provo, Utah, was the dramatic reader for the meetings and the awards banquet. Much appreciation was expressed by visiting delegates from other States for the leadership displayed by Latter-day Saint women in the creative arts. Senator Margaret Chase Smith, ranking Republican on the powerful Armed Services and Aeronautical and Space Science Committees; Virginia Mae Brown, of Washington, D. C., chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission; and Mrs. Bruce Benson of Amherst, Massachusetts, President of the League of Women Voters, all feel that the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment tothe Constitution of the United States fifty years ago, on June 4, 1919, giving women the right to vote, has had a great effect for good in the United States. Anne Pellowski, Director, Center of Information on Children's Cultures for UNICEF, feels that children today ''have become prone to television sickness. It is difficult for them to sit and listen." Children seldom get stories told or read to them. She feels there is a great need for children's literature, which must be of equal literary excellence to the best of adult literature. 661 EDITORIAL / TURN TO THE FATHERS '"'And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers.'' (D&C 2:2.) @ A well-loved poem speaks of the enduring influence and the continuing blessings that illuminate the world from the deeds and the words and the faithfulness of the fathers—''... For there was grandeur where the fathers stood."' When the hearts of the children turn to the fathers—whether or not the ''children'' are far beyond childhood—and whether or not the fathers still live upon the earth—there are memories and impressions and abiding direction which the fathers have given. Their strength, their leadership, their unselfish efforts, the blessings of their priesthood, are often vividly recalled. And superimposed upon the children forever from the past are those deep and subtle influences which, over the years, still protect and bless them. One woman still remembers and feels the sunlight and warmth of a summer day when she stood with her father in the doorway of an adobe ranch house, looking northward to a far expanse of wheatfields in a time of harvest. The father said, ''There is your college education.' The father then remarked that he knew little about the courses of studies offered in the universities, but he had heard that the learning and the development were good, and therefore necessary for his children. They would be sent to a university where spiritual enlightment would be a lamp for the years to come. His words were expressed in a moment of time, but the moment became forever in the memory of the daughter—love and sacrifice and strength and a plan for the future all joined together and made into a lasting commitment. Another woman who was devoted to genealogical research and who found great joy in the patterns of the generations, wrote for her family and for the future families of her children the record of Volume 56 September 1969 Number 9° Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Acting SecretaryTreasurer the fathers back along the years—the decisive events in their lives and the teachings that guided them ''in every wilderness.'' The grandfather, who had lived as a boy in the river city of Nauvoo, had seen almost daily the Prophet Joseph Smith and had heard inspired doctrine and direction ''in the grove.'' The father of this grandfather, in the green hills of Vermont, had seen an early copy of The Book of Mormon, and had read it over and over by candlelight—the history of the long-ago fathers in the Western Hemisphere. From the book he learned much wisdom and instructed his family in the eternal verities of faith and righteousness. Then he told them of his own ancestors in Plymouth, England, and how one of them was captain on ''the ship of destiny'' as he called the Mayflower, the ship that helped to part the waters for a journey to the promised land where the gospel would be restored. The families of the fathers, reaching back into the early centuries, have become known to the families of the people who dwell in the 'fulness of times'' and who look forward to a reunion of those related by the flesh and sealed together by the Spirit. It has been said in olden time and continues to this day ''... They judge not the fatherless'' (Isaiah 1:23), expressing the deprivation and limitations which those bereft in early years of an earthly father encounter. It is then that the written record of the father in his time gives comfort, and all the forebears stand as a legion for the years that one must walk with no visible father to smooth the way and offer protection. The arm of faith, also, is extended to the fatherless upon the earth, and the Father in heaven ''keepeth well'' the loved ones, for ''Have we not all one Father? Hath not one God created us?" As women of the Church, blessed with the heritage of our fathers, considering their counsel and the line of their authority, it is now a time for us to rejoice in the ''ordinances of heaven." —V. P. C. THE GENERAL BOARD Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp; Verda F. Burton Amy Y. Valentine Aleine M. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Marian R. Boyer Alberta H. Christensen Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Orlene J. Poulsen Winniefred S. Manwaring Oa J. Cannon Lucile P. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve Mary R. Young Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Fanny S. Kienitz; Lenore C. Gundersen Zelma R. West Helen E. Lach Elizabeth B. Winters Marjorie C. Pingree Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore 663 IN MEMORIAM Mildred Bennion Eyring May 23, 1896—June 25, 1969 Mildred Bennion Eyring, member of the General Board of Relief Society, passed away June 25, 1969 in Salt Lake City, Utah. Sister Eyring had served on the General Board for nineteen years, being appointed in 1950. While serving on the General Board Sister Eyring endeared herself to thousands of Relief Society sisters throughout the world. She was an excellent speaker, and devoted her talents to the needs of the General Board, giving service to education and other committees _as well as to the work of conferences in the stakes. Sister Eyring was born in Granger, Utah. She was the daughter of Marcus and Lucy Smith Bennion. She married Dr. Henry Eyring; noted educator and physicist, August 25, 1928. They are the parents of three sons. There are six grandchildren. Sister Eyring was educated in the Granite School District in Salt Lake City. She was graduated from the University of Utah, where she headed the physical education department for women. She also did graduate work at the University of Wisconsin where she met her husband. She has been a member of the Sunday School General Board and has served loyally in ward organizations and sung in the choirs. She and her husband taught a Sunday School class which was especially appreciated and had a large attendance. At the time of her call to the General Board of Relief Society she was a counselor in the Monument Park Ward Relief Society. She was always devoted to Relief Society and has attended the meetings regularly, giving spiritual encouragement and the blessings of her inspirational companionship to all the women in the ward. The General Board of Relief Society and members throughout the Church who knew and admired Sister Eyring extend heartfelt sympathy to her loved ones at her passing. FAREWELL How precious these last few Days of hummingbirds and fields TO SUMMER Of tall corn; Large cottonwood trees laden with Leaves; sunflowers by the side of The road. All too soon the frogs and crickets Are silent, and mothers are alone When the first school bell rings. —Linda Houston 664 Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 4 SYNOPSIS: Mary Ann and Kim Freeman have taken Kim's aged Father from his home in Mayville, Utah, to their home in Los Angeles to care for him after an accident. Mary Ann has submitted her resignation as a teacher in the grade school. This will cut their income in half at the time of their children Rosemary's wedding, and Tommy's graduation. @ Rosemary was ecstatic when she opened her letter from the board of education. "TI got it! I got the class!" she said, racing to kiss her mother, hug her father, and lay her cheek against that of her grandfather, who responded with a squeeze of her other cheek. "I draw the line at you, Tommy," she said, stopping in front of her brother in mock rejection. "This can't be the family clinging vine who only last week still insisted she didn't want to work," jeered Tommy. "Clinging vine! Look who's talking!" accused Rosemary. "I was just waiting for all the chatter to calm down before I told my big news. I accepted the scholarship my dean has been trying to thrust upon me for the last two quarters, on the basis of need." "Ha!" said Rosemary. "What if you hadn't had that to fall back on when Mother withdrew her support? What then?" "I'd have gone out and borrowed the money," replied Tommy calmly. "I didn't know you had a scholarship in the offing," said Kim in surprise. Tommy turned his beautiful, blonde giant look on his father. "T turned: it down so some 665 September 1969 less fortunate fellow could use it, but there were no takers." Mary Ann smothered an ejaculation. It was obvious' she had spoiled her children by rushing to their aid whenever they needed money—Tommy for books and _ tuition, and Rosemary for the lavish wedding she had planned. And Tommy could have had a scholarship all along!. "What will it pay?" she asked. "Books and tuition and a small stipend, which will pay my gas and date bills," said Tommy. "I could have taken a part-time job, but it would cut me out of my study time, just like too many dates would, so I'm cutting out dating for the duration. Period. It's the nose to the grindstone—not that it hasn't been there. Of course, I could have borrowed against my degree and paid it back later with no sweat. There is a student loan fund—forgivable loans, at that." Kim looked at Mary Ann and she read his mind. It was simply too easy for young folks! High time they were thrust onto their own resources! "Congratulations on your new positions," Grandfather Freeman offered in his courtly way. "She would have liked to hear that news." He was referring to his departed wife, of course. "Rosemary can thank you for that new job of hers, Grandpa, and I can thank you for my scholarship." "Oh, no! Not me," replied his grandfather. "You are a very fine scholar to merit a scholarship, and Rosemary earned her position with her own initiative. 666 Helping out that little boy with his glasses—I had nothing to do with it." "Didn't you? Now look, Grandfather. Would either one of them have happened if you hadn't come to live with us? Already three sweeping changes have been made. Mother has quit her job, Rosemary has a position to teach, and I have taken myself off the welfare state— family speaking, that is. To say nothing of my resolve not to fall in love with some girl and get married." "IT can hardly wait, Tommy Freeman, for you to begin eating your own words." Tommy ignored Rosemary. "See what an impact you have had already on this family, Grandfather?" "IT didn't want—I _ didn't mean " his grandfather began in great agitation. "Grandpa! This is good. Can't you see how important this is —sociologically speaking—how we all needed you?" "If you say so," his grandfather said uncertainly. "We all say so, Dad," said Kim. "Why, you should have heard the men at the shop today, when I told them I had brought you home to _ stay awhile with us. One of the men said that is exactly what he would like to do _ with his father, but his wife wouldn't hear of it." "Did you tell him it is only till spring?" asked his father. "T told him you expected to go home in the spring," said Kim evasively. "Spring?" said Rosemary, suddenly interested. "What time in the spring? Not before we have our honeymoon in your sweet house? Cary and I. We really do mean it, Grandfather." "Summer," amended her grandfather. "Not until you are through with the place, of course."' Neither Rosemary nor Tommy seemed to notice the little slump of despair in their grandfather's shoulders, but their parents did. Mary Ann wished the conversation had _ never taken place. "IT must exercise more," was all Kim's father said. Tommy was right. His grandfather's coming had made an impact on their family. Repercussions were felt almost immediately in the budget department. Kim's check exactly covered the house payment, the _ utilities, and the food, just as it always had, with a little left over for the upkeep of the car and his Church obligations. There was nothing for the one-hundredand-one items never counted in any budget, and Mary Ann was left immediately without a car—Rosemary drove the little car to work, Tommy dropped his father off in the station wagon, and drove on to school. Not that Mary Ann needed a car during the day, as she was tied close with Kim's father. It was the little things —a new pair of stockings, cosmetics, reading matter, medicines, and drugs. Mary Ann _ began planning ways to save in her cooking and sewing. "This is something!" Tommy said appreciatively the first time he came home to find her pulling new-baked bread from the Heart Room For Home oven, and forthwith demolished the better part of a loaf with melted butter, milk, and jam. "When I marry—if I marry— I will pick a wife with all the homey virtues." "I can just see it," chided Rosemary, "healthy and docile, like the women the _ earlier settlers sent for—home-raised girls." "She was the most beautiful one of them all," remembered Father Freeman. "But she was the best cook, the best seamstress, and she used the best grammar." Mary Ann found time now to do many things at homemaking she had been unable to do as a working woman, to sew some of the material she had been tempted into buying in her more lucrative days. "Mother, I didn't know you were such a wonderful seamstress," Rosemary exclaimed when she modeled her first dress. "How about making some of my trousseau?" Mary Ann was thrilled at this invitation, and they huddled over patterns and materials, while Kim and his father worked at genealogy, a project Kim had long wanted to do. With his father's wonderful memory and tendency to reminisce, he was able to fill in many details hitherto missing, and it was a joy to them both. "You'll have to rest during the day, Dad, and we'll take in some evening sessions at the temple, get some of these names taken care of." "Yd like that," said Kim's father, and redoubled his exercise time in the walker. He refused all help at getting about 667 September 1969 and did his own small errands about the house. By Thanksgiving he was spending much of his time on his feet. Thanksgiving was another "Gathering of the Clan," this time with the boys, Robert and Heidi and their three, James and Carol and their four, present, making a total of twenty-four at the long dining table, which had been augmented by folding sections. The weather was so lovely it was possible to eat on the patio, a novelty to Grandfather Freeman. "That's nothing," assured Kim. "We quite often eat Christmas dinner out here, too, with the poinsettias and the calla lihes bordering the path, all in bloom." His father, later, painstakingly wrote the details of this wonderful dinner to Francine and Emily, and received a contrite note from Francine in return: Dad, I am so ashamed to have wanted you to sell your house and put you in a rest home. [ can tell it is wonderful for you there, but we could have managed if you had stayed here. Melanie had her baby the next week after you left, a little girl, and if we had only thought of it, she and her husband could have kept our house and Jack and I could have moved in with you until you were better. Emily was so sure it was right to sell the place, that it seemed right to me at the time. We're taking good care of everything. Absent from her letter was any offer to makesuch an arrangement now, but Mary Ann and Kim were content. It was "working out" as Kim had prophesied, not without adjustment pains. Their course was plainly to make life so pleasant for Kim's father that he would relinquish his 668 desire to return to his home and resign himself to a new way of living. They took him driving and showed him the ocean, seeing it again through his eyes, because he was profoundly moved by the sight of so much water when he had fought to keep the water on his land among the mountains. They took him to Palomar to see the Bethlehem Star show as a prelude to Christmas, and he was excited as a child at the wondrous knowledge and ability of men to reproduce such a point in history. They took him to Marineland, and he was reminded of the beasts at home by the animals of the water. "That whale was as proud of her performance as our race mare, Star. Remember how she arched her neck and _ pranced when she won the race at the county fair?" Kim and Tommy took him to priesthood meeting on Sunday mornings, and he came home appreciative of the gospel and their efforts to get him there. Kim and Mary Ann managed a weekly session at the temple, wheeling him through in his chair and he was nearly overcome with pleasure. It was working out, they told each other, and Kim was appreciative of all Mary Ann's efforts to make it so. As for himself, Kim took on a new air of confidence and authority Mary Ann had missed before. As a man who was filling his obligation to his father, Kim felt a glow of happiness, and as the total wage earner he felt new strength as the head of the house. When Mary Ann tried to put it into words in the pnvacy of their room, he said, "I feel different, somehow. I always felt a little ashamed before, as if I was not filling my complete place. It is a man's work to furnish the money, to be the provider. You don't know what it did for me when you said you would be glad to quit work, that you didn't really like your job. It was something I felt all along." This was a wrong premise. Mary Ann had liked her job, and the freedom of her own lincome, but she kept this reservation to herself in order to preserve this new feeling in Kim. She had to admit it was unpleasant to contemplate consulting Kim on every small purchase, after, of course, taking a close look at the budget. Under the joint pressure of her diminished reserve and the coming of Christmas, wasn't it possible, even inevitable that she should develop self-pity, come to consider herself the family martyr, the unpaid family servant? It was all right for Kim and the children to feel the new power of their independence and to be in the ascendency, but what about her, now in the descendency of importance? To carry this further was CORRECTION ON PAINTING TUB (August Relief Society Magazine, p. 599) In painting the tub it is better to complete the painting and apply the decals, etc. Before applying the varnish. Heart Room For Home painful, but Mary Ann had to be fair—and thorough. Had she not, in times past, herself held her family in similar subjugation? Had she not been the shortest route to supply for the demands of her two youngest children, thereby smothering their initiative to fill these demands by their own efforts? The more she thought of it, the more certain she was that this was true. The latter analogy was the best deterrent to the self-pity and martyrdom she feared, but it did not solve the problem of Christmas, fast approaching now. Previous Christmases had run into the hundreds of dollars, with twenty-five of the immediate family to be thought of, to say nothing of other relatives and friends. "Kim, there is a sale on applesauce, and there has been quite a drain on our year's supply. Do you think we could—? Could you spare a little to." she asked hesitantly. At first she thought Kim was asleep, there was such a long silence. "You have asked me _ for money, Mary Ann," said Kim with a= little choking sound. "T never want that to happen? Again! (To be continued) 669 ee | a teen Jean A. Jensen @ "All roads lead to Rome!" Rome—the Eternal City, Rome —built on seven hills. Rome— the ancient city — the ultramodern city. Rome — the pagan city, the Christian city! Rome —the sculpture center of the world, the adopted city of Michelangelo. We visited Venice, the fabulous city of the merchants which is slowly sinking into the sea, and bustling Naples, before Rome. We were stranded in Naples because of a general railroad strike. An unforgettable memory is the pandemonium of the bus station with peoples of many countries worrying, gesticulating and shouting. We were finally put aboard a chartered bus full of girl students late at night. We all slept fitfully after our strenuous day and, as a street clock struck midnight, we gratefully arrived in Rome and registered to take four comprehensive tours of the city in the next two days. We surely fell into the category of the typical Americans who 670 race through Europe spending only a few days when they should be spending at least a week in each place, or better still, a month. The first thing we recognized was the oldest thing in Rome, there long before Rome was built—the "golden" Tiber River, still serenely winding its way through the city as it has done for centuries. The legendladen Tiber flows like molten gold toward the setting sun. We knew if it could speak it would tell us the history of. Rome. The French once offered to divert its channel so that its depths could be explored for treasures but the authorities of Rome, fearing an increase of malaria from such a_ procedure, would not give their consent. The Aqua Marcia built in 140 B. C. And restored in 1869, brings water from the Sabine Mountains, a distance of about fifty-six miles. Although the water is strongly impregnated with lime, it is pure and excellent. Ta") | rh ny | a: The panoramic view of Rome from Pincian Hill helped to orient us, and the Borghese Gardens which are now turned over to the city for a_ public promenade, fascinated us as we saw avenues of white marble busts of the great men of Rome as they stood out against a background of dark pines and cypresses. The Vatican Palace, with over a thousand rooms, was of great interest as we toured its museums, the apartment of Pope Julius the Second, which was designed by Raphael, and a few main galleries filled with art treasures. The Vatican Library, with its 350,000 volumes and 50,000 manuscripts, was impressive. The highlight of the tour was the visit to the Sistine Chapel. I will never forget what they said was Michelangelo's self-portrait as a grotesque bag hanging in the fresco of "The Last Judgment." It depicted his feeling at having to lhe on his back on high scaffolds with paint dripping into his eyes for four years in the cold dampness of this chapel, as he painted this masterpiece of a ceiling depicting God, the Twelve Apostles, and other Biblical characters, while he longed to be working as a sculptor with his beloved marble. We learned that the Vatican City has its own separate government and its coins and stamps, so we purchased stamps for cards. The second tour of the day included the summer residence of Cardinal Borghese which is now a museum featuring masterpieces by Bernini. Then we Rome went to Janiculum Hill, the highest of the seven hills of Rome, and saw the great monument, one section of which shows Romulus and Remus being suckled by a she-wolf and we recalled the legend of the origin of Rome, founded 750 years before the birth of Christ. We wandered around in the ruins of the Roman Forum and the old Roman senate building and remembered that here was the cradle of government and that many laws we have today had their origin amid this group of ancient ruins. It is like a sunken square—holding columns, arches, pedestals, and crumbling walls. We stood in awe as memories of the past swept over us and we realized that we were seeing the spot which for centuries had been the heart of the Roman Empire, the stage on which the great dramas of Roman history were performed—the stabbing to the death of Julius Caesar and the resulting speech by Mark Antony being to us the best known. The great white marble monument to Victor Emmanuel, the Bismarck of Italy, is two hundred feet high. The columns, raised figures, and Victor Emmanuel, unifier of Italy in the center sitting astride a_ horse, fascinated us as did the Venetian Palace which had served as headquarters for Mussolini. We had glimpses of the palaces of Rome or "palazzos" and saw galleries and gardens which have been decorated with the most precious works of antiquity. In spite of great sheets of rain we got out of the bus to see the gorgeous fountain of Trevi 671 September 1969 (of "Three Coins in a Fountain" fame) and threw our pennies into the water and made our wishes. Then, while the rain beat down, we entered the Church of St. Peter in Chains where we saw Michelangelo's great statue of "Moses" and marveled again at the wonder of the figures which Michelangelo could see in a block of marble and release with his skill. The next day we saw the Piazza Navona (Navona Square), an ancient square with an ornate fountain and an obelisk, one of a group brought from Egypt. Then we went into the Pantheon whose porch was built in 27 B. C. The Pantheon, with a dome in the center which lets the rain and sunlight in, dates back to the time of Hadrian in 125 A. D. It contains the first unsupported dome ever built and the model for all domes that have capped public building ever since. One of the most beautiful sights was the Marble Stadium, a stadium surrounded by white marble figures depicting some thirty sports. In the period 'of Rome's glory it was said that the number of Rome's statues equalled that of her inhabitants. We learned about the ancient wellbuilt sewer system which is still used and the Golden Milestone erected by Augustus, from which distances were reckoned to every province of the Roman Empire, and roads were built which joined them in _ swift, sure communication. We saw the Arch of Titus, erected to commemorate the conquest of Jerusalem and saw, in imagina- 672 tion, long triumphal processions as they passed under this arch. Now the moment had come when we were to visit St. Peter's basilica, the crowning work of Michelangelo, Antonio Sangallo the younger, Peruzzi Bramante, Raphael, Guido Reni, Domenichino, and many other geniuses. We were instructed not to stray or lose our guide or we could easily become lost in this huge structure. We: kept together as we walked toward the reputed tomb of St. Peter which is directly under the great dome which Michelangelo planned. We were told three ordinary churches, spires and all, could be placed side by side beneath the dome alone, with two hundred feet to spare between the tops of the spires and the keystone of the arch. We drove along the Appian Way and saw many ruined sepulchres. It was the fashionable burial place of ancient Rome and the statues and other treasures have long. Since been stolen. We recalled reading "Quo Vadis" and the visits of Peter and Paul to Rome. It is said that from the Appian Way Paul first gained a view of Rome. We visited one of the fortyfive groups of catacombs along the Appian Way. As we entered into their eerie darkness, there was a priest to light the way with a lamp into some of the maze of labyrinths in which the early Christians had found refuge from their persecutions and had also used as their burial grounds. I was impressed as he pointed out to us the Christian sign of a "fish" carved upon a wall. (Continued on page 691) The Golden Tiber River of Rome Panorama View of Rome Roman Forum Statue of Jesus and Pilate by the Holy Stairway © JEEREE Stadium with Statues St. Peter's—View From the Tiber River Art in the Home Grayce E. Cutler Transparencies by the author > Liberty Park, Salt Lake City, Utah, from a painting by John Hafen Swiftly the changing lights reached the level of our top window, where the cutglass prisms were. A cheerful grate fire crackled in the open fireplace and music from our old phonograph played a soft accompaniment. This was the moment I waited for: the hour of sunset when our living rooms glowed and the original oil paintings on the walls were pools of light. Red, blue, and gold shafts of sunlight filtered through the diamond panes. Urgently, I cried, "Mother, come quickly or you will miss it." A voice came from the kitchen, "Just a minute, dear, the pies have to be taken out of the oven first." I ran over to the corner of the room, to change the record on the phonograph, - hurrying back to the settee. "Hurry, hurry, now, Mother, the lights are on the rocks now." This was the crucial moment because to wait much longer, one would miss the whole show. Soon Mother came running in, apron flying, trailing spicy odors of black-currant pies fresh from the oven. She sat by me, wiping her hands on the towel in her lap, and, together, we watched a miracle of light play on the many original paintings, following one after another with liquid sunshine.. From the red rocks on down with the setting sun, blue and gold lights sparkled into the open sea, making it truly a sea of gold. This was my favorite painting, the one of Gunnison Island, Great Salt Lake, in a storm, by Alfred Lambourne, Utah artist and writer, who lived in a little house on this lonely island in certain seasons of the year and painted its many moods. Uncle Fred was mother's brother. She was the heroine '"'Plet" in his epic tale of the Wasatch Mountains, the year of the big avalanche. 676 Gunnison Island, Great Salt Lake, from a painting by Alfred Lambourne The shadows grew longer now and the colors deepened, "Mother, just look at that gold-dust on the desert!" A large desert oil by John Hafen filled one end of the living room, an authentic scene of covered wagons trailing gold dust at the end of day. The setting sun shone blood-red on the strange sculpture of Monument Valley. We looked with anticipation around the room, as every evening was a different experience, changing with the seasons and weather. In the corner, a small landscape by George Ottinger, a pastel of Liberty Park by Hafen, and on the opposite wall, an oil of my grandfather, John C. Cutler when he was Governor of the State of Utah. As the sunrays reached his eyes, we exclaimed "Doesn't he look as if he could speak to us?" We watched with awe as his blue eyes sparkled and smiled a little. Imagination can run riot at such times, later to become inspiration for expression or just priceless memories. A A few moments now and it would be all over; the red sun dropped quickly behind the dark filigree of trees in front of our home. The soft wind blowing the lace curtains seemed like a whispered goodnight. Little did I realize the same principle would apply in later years to my own paintings in my little home. Vivid memories return as I frequently walk through the modern galleries and museums of San Francisco and experience the avant-garde art of psychedelic light. It seems as if a stage had been set for the art of tomorrow. Through centuries of painting, true artists worked endlessly, seeking the mystical quality of light. One of the great masters, William Turner (1775-1851) became fa- 677 mous for his insight and genius in depicting pure light. As one views his retrospective exhibition in the Tate Gallery, London, the impact of an inner light on one after another of his great works (filling three galleries) was like an unknown spiritual source. The French Impressionists later attained light more than any other school and will live forever. The early Utah painter, Lee Greene Richards studied this school of painting in Europe and was greatly influenced by it. One day Mother took me to his studio to show him my first little watercolors. It was a beautiful studio with windows facing South Temple and a real skylight. He showed me his fine paintings. (Continued on page 692) 678 Look to November from a painting by Grayce E. Cutler Asters In the Autumn Garden Transparency by Luoma Studios 679 Handicrafts for the Home Annetta S. Mower @ Perhaps' there is } nothing quite as enjoyable for a woman as | decorating her own home, and even more j enjoyable if she. Can | use a little of her own ingenuity and _ talent. Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts A BENCH FOR THE HALL Recently, my husband built a dining-library room on our house leaving our hall, which had previously been filled with books, looking empty and colorless. As our hall is small we decided on the amount of space we could devote to a bench without interfering with the passageway. We then cut a pine board that size and stained it walnut. We stapled on a piece of foam in the middle of the board, being sure to tuck the top edge of the foam underneath to give it a tufted look. Then it was covered with upholstery material and tacked down with brass upholstery tacks. Painting chains black to match our black wrought iron rails on our stairs, we fastened them to the stubs in the wall and to the front of the board. Underneath the board small braces were attached so that the bench was serviceable as well as attractive. This stayed within our budget, costing $6. THE ANIMALS ENTER THE ARK Model, Marguerite Mower Covering another piece of masonite with burlap, we made a background with a felt ark for Noah, his wife, and stuffed animals that were sold at a Relief Society bazaar. The animals were so attractive, I wanted to show them off, yet at the same time allow the children to play with them. I sewed a large snap on each animal and small holes were drilled through the masonite for wiring on the counterpart of the snap, allowing for the animals to be played with and then snapped back on the picture. The white dove is beautiful on blue burlap sky, and the orange and yellow ark seems ready for its long voyage upon the waters; the striped zebra, the bearded lion, the pink pig, the mottled snakes, in curves of grandeur, a blue elephant and a pink elephant, and the wooly sheep, with the flapping ears, seem real enough to enter into the ark and make a safe return trip without being lost. Our own handicraft has given us pleasure in the planning and the doing and now offers continued enjoyment for the whole family. 680 Models, Megan and Michael Mower RHYMES AND STORIES AND CASTLES My mother read to my sisters and me from a lovely old nursery rhyme book. When I began reading to my children from this same book the pages were worn and beginning to tear. Loving the characters from the book and wanting my children to enjoy them as I had, I made a picture of these characters drawing them on paper and then cutting them out of felt. My husband covered a masonite board with burlap on which the felt pictures had been sewed. Among the colorful characters which now appear in the picture, which occupies a place of interest on the nursery wall, are Simple Simon, the Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe, Mistress Mary, Wee Willie Winkle, and others of the cherished people loved by generations of children. They are now giving continued pleasure to Megan, Michael, and Marguerite who greet their storybook friends each day, and sometimes tell them goodnight. p malipe B — e The Hawaiian booth was a delight—colorful and inviting. A Bazaar Designed Especially for Children Helen M. Dall, President, Kearns North Stake Relief Society Karen Sorensen, President, Seventeenth Ward Relief Society @ Our whole Bazaar was especially focused on items of interest for children and this plan turned out to be a great success. A special booth was prepared to illustrate helps for Family Home Evening. Assignment charts, flannel boards, plaques, lap boards, and activity sheets were prepared. Items for children were attractively displayed. The items for sale in the varous displays were all donated. Sister Sharon Seamons was chairman. She had made up a sample item and then assigned several sisters to make the desired number of each item. Over thirty sisters were involved in one single booth, and all seemed willing to help. Several sisters who do not sew or do handwork were especially willing to help with decorating the booths and ar- 682 ranging the displays. Many sisters who are a little timid seemed glad when they were shown what to do. The items were unusually attractive and included: 4 turtles (made out of round rocks and glued together and painted); 10 handkerchief dolls (top half made and decorated from felt, the bottom half was a handkerchief); 20 dress-up formals (these were sold quickly, materials were scraps of silks and satins and discarded curtains); 3 cow-girl outfits; 8 soldier banks (made from detergent bottles); 20 wall pictures; 6 large bulletin boards (shaped like animals); 4 large playhouses (big enough for little girls to play in, made from cardboard boxes, painted and with curtains added); 10 dress-up hats (made from clorox bottles and net); 12 wigs (made from yarn); 20 toy guns (cut from wood and painted brown); 6 doll houses (made from garment boxes and decorated); 20 sets of doll furniture; 15 paper dolls and clothes; 20 purses, and many other attractive articles. As a theme on Hawaii, the girls were invited inside a thatched hut (an old pasteboard box covered with strips of cut paper and painted). Each girl received a skirt, lei, and flowers for her hair. Variety of smiles and costumes in the dress-up booth. British Women Make A Union Jack Design In Knitting Submitted by Norinne R. Callister, Former Supervisor, British Mission Relief Society This unique "Union Jack" blanket was knitted by Sister Louisa Ridley (in the picture) and Sister Eda V. Longbone for Elder Dean Orton who took it home to his mother. It took the two women three weeks to make the blanket, working three to four hours a day, and lining the blanket took six hours. Sister Ridley and Sister Longbone belong to the Eastbourne Branch, Sussex, England. Joyce H. Walker is president of the branch Relief Society. 685 Dorothy J. Roberts MATERIALS NEEDED Scraps of cotton material Nut Cups for the Party (printed, plaid, or plain) Nylon or wool yarn Alice Elizabeth Oertle Large darning needle Melted canning wax Ice tongs TO MAKE A pattern may be made by marking a circle with a saucer (about six inches in diameter). A bowl or drinking glass (about 3 inches in diameter) can be used for the smaller inner circle. Cut the material from the larger circle and mark the smaller circle. With adhesive tape, glue, or a stapler, attach a double strand of yarn across the middle from edge to edge of the smaller circle, leaving about an inch excess for attaching the handle. Stitch around the inner circle two rows about an inch apart, drawing the circle up to resemble a cup. The stitching may be on the inside or the (Continued on page 692) 686 "SUNDAY AFTERNOON ON THE ISLAND OF LA GRANDE JATTE" by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French Courtesy of the Art Institute of Chicago Commentary on page 690 For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Power of Work Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 THE BLIND GIRL" by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English a Transparency by Three Lions Commentary on page 689 For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 688 "THE BLIND GIRL" by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English Transparency by Three Lions Painting on opposite page Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 John Everett Millais was a precocious child. He was recognized as having great talent at age four. At seven he was drawing amazing likenesses of family and friends. At eleven he was accepted into the Royal Academy as its youngest student and was later elected to membership. Early in his career as an artist he and several friends formed a group known as Pre-Raphaelites, who set principles of painting somewhat contrary to the accepted manner of painting of the time. They believed art should be based upon and be true to nature and represent sincere expression of sincere beliefs and adhere to the gospel of thoroughness. As a result, Millais' work was full of detail, yet there was nothing harsh. The details were absorbed in the whole truth without detracting from the complete, satisfying beauty of the canvas. As is so often the case, he was severely criticized by the critics of his time. His most enduring work, "The Blind Girl," has proved to be one for which he was most condemned. One said, "We must protest against sweet, lollipop colours, raw green fields, and lace-up boots ostentatiously large." In Miullais' time, he was a revolutionist and it is chiefly because of his revolutionary works that he lives today. Most creative people seem to have a certain driving force which might be termed a "feeling of destiny'—a conviction that what they are seeking is of worth and importance and they must "get on" with it, which in itself is a service to those who follow. They seem converted to the "rightness" of what they are doing. Perhaps this is what gives the artist direction and a tenacity in spite of obstacles and criticism from others. Anyone out in the forefront runs the risk of being misunderstood. This was true of Millais. If we were to judge his works by present trends in art, he might be considered very conservative, yet during his day he was a revolutionary. "The Blind Girl" is not difficult to understand. It could be said to be true to nature with an obvious message. Try asking a group of people of any age to look at the painting and tell the story. Abstract the story into one word and see how often it will be "service." 689 'SUNDAY AFTERNOON ON THE ISLAND OF LA GRANDE JATTE" by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French - Courtesy of the Art Institute of Chicago Painting on page 687 Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Power of Work Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 When families are united in their work and play, work becomes more meaningful and leisure more enjoyable. A casual observer might say that this painting "La Grande Jatte" by Georges Seurat illustrates. A popular leisure-time activity—strolling in the park. However, as one looks and reflects, he may find that there is much more to it than that. The reality of the subject has been subjected to stringent refining—not necessarily to improve it—but in order to yield its essence. The unessentials have been dropped away leaving only images of incisive clarity. A heat haze blurs the detail and gives a static quality. One feels as if he had captured a moment suspended in time, in which order reigns. Georges Seurat lived at the time Impressionism was at its height. However, he believed that this system of painting was too haphazard, so he developed a systematic method of painting, which was highly intellectual, methodical, and almost scientific in approach. He carefully organized the space on his canvas by using horizontal, vertical, and diagonal lines in perfect balance. Then with careful, almost artificial, precision, he placed the confetti-like, round spots of color next to each other, until his canvas was covered in such a way that the colors, being mixed in the eye of the observer, give a sensation of shimmering vibrancy. He called this method Divisionism. Others have called it Pointillism. This painting was first shown in 1886, and it marked the painter's arrival at a maturity in the use of the method he invented. His departure from the established way of painting, and from the Impressionism of his time, opened the way for later, so-called "Modern" art. Seurat must have worked hard to accomplish what he did at such an early age. (He died at the age of 32.) And, as is the case with many highly creative people, he found his recreation in his work. He said, "Art is harmony—harmony comes from placing, side-by-side, contrasting elements and similar elements in tone, in color, and in line." 690 ROME (Continued from page 672) The last thing on our tours was the ruin of the Colosseum which held 50,000 people. Near the arena there used to be a marble platform with marble thrones for the vestals, senators, and other dignitaries. Above this platform was the emperor's throne under a canopy. The ancient heated baths were the social centers of Rome and there were shops surrounding them for every purpose to please men and women. The Baths were the meeting places of literary men, where lectures were delivered, poems read, and Philosophical themes debated. Athletes gave exhibitions there of their skill and strength, musiclans showed their talents, and every form of physical improvement was taught. It was cal.. Culated that 62,000 people could have bathed at any hour in the public baths in Rome. Many noted works of art were in these areas. Modern Rome has a population of over 2,000,000 and is LEAVES Wind-loosed they fell upon a waiting earth retaining veins of summer's green: they lay as other years of leaves have lain released from Parent stem, they knew the early light of Spring, the summer Strengthening, emblazoned color, and the fall. As leaves do, children will outlive the parent tree many seasons after: Rome Spread over 62,000 acres. It has about 2,000 restaurants. The delicious over-size pears, apples, peaches, and &rapes served to us with our meals for dessert were a delight to see and eat. We saw the famous "Spanish Steps" before we left and a street with magnolia trees on either side just about to bloom. We learned that Rome is a little farther north than the city of New York, and we reluctantly left the magnificence of this amazing city and hoped that some day our road would lead us back to Rome. In 1850 the Italian Mission of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was opened and in 1854 it was combined with the Swiss Mission. The SwissItalian Mission was divided in 1966 with the Italian Mission headquarters in Florence and is progressing among thosé wonderfully gifted, warm, and friendly people. A new era is Opening for those who will] listen to the gospel to show them the way to peace and salvation. Parent-taught, they have learned to lean against the winds nor fear the wrath of storms, aware of radiance wro ught by morning's sun and the regenerative power in the cycled harmony of birth. —Beulah Huish Sadleir 691 September 1969 ART IN THE HOME (Continued from page 678) As we were leaving, he said, "Graycie, keep painting all your life for your own enjoyment, as I have advised my own children; but never take up painting seriously as a vocation; it is too heartbreaking."' He hesitated and, even at that early age, I caught the struggle of an artist's life especially in an isolated community. I did not heed his advice, as the urge to express in paint, plus early exposure to good art, held me forever. My most precious recollections were in Alfred Lambourne's modest studio on North Main Street, where I sat in the bay window on some rainy days and listened breathlessly to his true tales of pioneer days and the lonely beauty of the plains as the pioneers made their tortuous trail to this unknown land. He was a mystic and poet, as was his pioneer father, John Lambourne, and his descriptions of his research into space, the stars and the "music of the spheres" he had actually heard, held me spellbound. He instinctively knew about matters not of this earth, and was host to celebrities and Eastern men of thought in his modest studio—all seeking, as man will seek forever, his own destiny; as Paul Gauguin asked in one of his famous last paintings, "Where do we come from? What are we? Where are we going?" I am grateful indeed to my parents and the circumstances surrounding the unique cultural life of this then-isolated community in the mountains, on the edge of the desert and the inland sea. If one does not have the advantages of being surrounded with artists in his own family, there is a renaissance of art the world over and good art is available in city galleries and even in small communities. Traveling exhibits, art schools, and art books are plentiful where one can learn and discern a good work of art and truly determine what he likes when the time comes to add a painting or a piece of sculpture to his valued possessions. If I could be given a wish for beauty and contentment, I would choose a good work of art to live by. NUT CUPS FOR THE PARTY (Continued from page 686) outside of the basket; the handle should be on the inside. When you have the cup roughly shaped, dip it into the melted wax using the tongs. When the cup is cool, push it into the desired shape. To add variety, staple small rosebuds or other plastic flowers at the places where the handle is attached. The cup is now ready to fill with candy and nuts for a party. Other patterns may be used and dipped in wax for other parties or for showers or socials. Double yarn Outside or inside of basket Pattern for nut cups made from scraps 3" circle 6" circle 692 SE ——E—<«= * < a',. ™" - a ae \ IN has used her <e ee bs. South Blackfoot St lace, an is an expert auty within create be reads, broidered bedsp ake, \daho, at making rugs, quilts, talents to dem Emily Olsen, ets and other re given to the viol e doilies, and other decorative items. Her yard |S also very lovely because of the tender ca varieties of flowers. Her vegetable gardens are rarely surpassed. She has been active In all of the auxiliaries of the Church, having served for nine ears as a Relief Society counselor, and more than fifty years as a visiting teacher. She has also rendered faithful service as a teacher and executive In the other organizations. Her of three children and grandmother to three. At eighty-five. She Sister Olson \ still seldom misses 2 Relief Society meeting. Made many \ ce tablecloths, ovely articles doilies, Nellie Green Howard, Portneuf Stake, McCammon, of handwork. Her specialty is quilts, DU her crocheted afghans, a and bedspreads are very lovely. She started counting the quilts she had made In 1955. Since that time she has quilted 130 full-sized quilts and twenty-one baby quilts. She has given quilts along with a pair of embroidered pillow cases to each of her five children, twenty-one grandchildren fifteen step-grandchildren thirty-five great-grandchildren, \ and to countless friends and neighbors. I das a teacher and execu d still and four step-greatin the other organiza i and makes quilts. a) 4 @ The hot Japanese sun smiled down on Angie's short blonde hair, making it shine. But the shine was soon gone when a handful of sand lit on her head and sifted through the golden curls. Angie looked around to find who had thrown the sand. Standing behind her were three Japanese children about her own age. Their dark slanted eyes looked strange to her. Angie hadn't seen anyone with eyes like theirs back in Salt Lake City where she used to live. The children's ebony hair hung straight down and was chopped off right below their ears. "Hi! What's your name?" chirped five-year-old Angie, who was happy to see someone to play with. The Japanese children didn't answer but stepped into Angie's sandbox and began sifting the sand through their fingers. The three started talking to one another with sounds that Angie couldn't understand. 694 THE UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE Ardean T. W/m & ~ Loertscher rar "T'1] get you some buckets," declared Angie, as she jumped up and ran into the garage. In a few seconds she reappeared with an armful of brightly colored tin buckets and shovels, and some tablespoons she had _ borrowed from the kitchen. The Japanese children grinned and giggled as they each received their allotted playthings from Angie. One little girl, whom the others called Keiko, tenderly caressed Angie's bare white legs which emerged from the ruffled bottom of her pink sunsuit. The girl seemed to marvel at the skin that was at least two shades lighter than her own. Large mountains and valleys began to take form in the sand pile as the foursome repeatedly filled and emptied their buckets. A miniature car was buried and uncovered. Ribbons of roads, made by tractors, steam shovels, and trucks, wound around the mountains and through the valleys. "Let's make a farm," cried Angie. "My uncle has a farm. I'll go get some cows." The screen door banged behind her as she skipped into the house. She was greeted with "ohs" and "ahs" when she returned with a plastic bag full of horses, cows, chickens, ducks, pigs, sheep, dogs, and cats. The girl named Keiko fingered a cow and repeated a strange word Angie couldn't understand. "No, it's a cow," Angie corrected. But Keiko continued to say the strange word. Not being able to quite understand what this meant, Angie decided to build a field for the cows. She ran to the tall maple tree which stood at the end of the long back yard. There she picked up dry twigs and sticks. When she had all her chubby hands could carry, she returned to the sand pile. One by one, she pushed the ends of the sticks into the sand next to each other. Her' three playmates joined her in the task, and soon an area about a foot in diameter was encircled by the fence. "The ducks need a pond to swim in," declared Angie as she ran for the sprinkler hose. She tugged the hose to the sand pile and carefully placed it in a ravine. Back she ran to the water tap on the side of the house. FIRST DAY OF The Universal Language As the water came on full force, the end of the hose flipped up, drenching the make-believe land in an unexpected shower. The three Japanese friends were also caught in the sudden sprinkle, but screams of delight and laughter escaped their mouths as the water cooled their skin. Just then the sound of a car in the driveway drew their attention. "That's my Daddy," revealed Angie. "He's a mission president." Angie ran to greet the tall man 'who stepped out of the car. "Daddy, comelook at my farm," she coaxed. "My! You're a dirty, wet girl! You better come in the house and get cleaned up for dinner," replied her father. "Who were your friends in the sand pile?" her father asked when they reached the bathroom. "IT don't know their names," Angie replied. "Can you understand them?" he asked. "No, they talk funny," she declared rather puzzled. "Isn't it hard to play if you can't understand them?" he continued. Angie's face darkened for an instant, but ht right back up again as she replied: "But Daddy, we all laugh the same." The leaves are scurrying across the street, SCHOOL and little children run on new-clad feet. Swiftly the years are hurrying colorful, wind-spun. Soon, the brittle leaves are gone, and school-days done. —Christie Lund Coles 695 feaqenn "0" THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding. Pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50.. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Tongan Mission, Suva Branch, (Fiji Islands) Sisters of Many Rz: zcs Work Together in Sisterhood of Relief Society Jean S. Groberg, former Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief Society, reports: 'One would have to be a linguist to understand the conversations which take place during a homemaking meeting in the Fiji District of our mission. As the sisters are busy working with their hands, they may be discussing the thoughts presented in the lesson in Hindi, Fijian, Tongan, Samoan, Rotuman, or Maori. "Meetings are conducted in English, but the language common to all is the language of the soul—a testimony of the restored truth, a common desire to be better wives and mothers, to be led by the priesthood of God. "These sisters in the Suva Branch conduct a full program of Relief Society, even conducting double meetings so that sisters who must work may still attend Relief Society. They are strengthening their visiting teaching program, conducting bazaars, and constantly inspiring those of us at mission headquarters to better works. We are very proud of these dear sisters, and appreciate their good works."' The new Supervisor of the Tongan Mission Relief Society is Metta H. Christensen. SO ——— OS ——E——— SS a South Blackfoot Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present ''My World," April 11, 1969 In front, left to right: Cherril E. Dygert, accompanist; President C. Dean Packer, soloist; Irene H. Kelly, director; Inez S. Pendlebury, Elizabeth K. Clark, Homer R. Evans, narrators. Edna C. Felt, President, reports: ''Our concert, 'My World,' was both delightful and inspirational to the large and appreciative audience. In addition to the choral numbers, the program included solos, duets, trios, and a narration written by Della T. Stander. A beautiful three violin obligato added a special touch." 696 Ja. 4." Fo SS a a a a a ae September 1969 Andes South Mission, La Paz (Bolivia) District Holds | Relief Society Convention February 15, 1969 Singing Mothers from La Paz Branches | and I! Who performed at Relief Society convention. Myrna T. Gibson, former Supervisor, Andes South Mission Relief Society reports: "The first annual convention for Relief Society sisters was held recently in the La Paz District. Lt was a very spiritual meeting and built much enthusiasm among the sisters of the ten branches in the district. "The theme, 'Charity Never Faileth' was chosen for the convention, and the colors of blue and gold were used throughout the hall. The 127th anniversary of Relief Society was commemorated with a program and birthday cake decorated by Sarah S. Daines. 'Beautiful music was presented by the Singing Mothers and several inspirational talks were given. The skit 'Thou Art in the Service of the Lord,' by Luacine Clark Fox was presented and enjoyed by all. 'We felt that the spirit of sisterhood was enhanced so much by this convention, in spite of rains reaching flood proportions causing difficult passage. There were eightyfive in attendance."' Zella O'Neta Roberts is the new supervisor of the Andes South Mission. Palmyra Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers in Program, ''To Serve With Love,"' February 27, 1969 Seated in the front row at right, left to right: Bernice S. Swenson, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society; Donna Anderson and Florence Cope, Counselors. Back row, left to right: Eleanor Olsen, Leona Sorensen, and Janet Hales, who directed the tableaux. Sister Swenson reports: ''We honored our visiting teachers with a program themed, 'To Serve With Love.' Tableaux representing various nations of the world with visiting teachers in native costumes represented the scripture 'Go ye therefore and teach all nations.' (Matt. 28:19), from which our theme was taken. "An inspiring narrative was written by Ruth Pinegar, stake social relations class leader. The tableaux were under the direction of Eleanor Olsen, Leona Sorensen, and Janet Hales. "Over 200 Singing Mothers from the ten wards in the stake performed to a record audience of 500 Relief Society sisters, their husbands and friends." ° Salem Stake (Oregon) Relief Society Presents Homemaker's Day, April 12, 1969 Members of the Salem Stake Relief Society board, left to right: Margaret G. Lee, spiritual living class leader; Aileen Brown, visiting teacher message leader; Helen Wells, social relations class leader; Jean W. Garrett, secretary-treasurer; Carol Jarvis, organist; Karol Brown, homemaking counselor; Ruth Greaves, cultural refinement class leader; Julia Nelson, homemaking leader; Lorraine Nichols, president. Sister Nichols reports: ''The theme for our very successful homemaker's day was 'Mardi Gras.' This was the eighth annual homemaker's day we have held, and although each has been very successful, this has been described by many as our most successful. A fashion show highlighted the afternoon. 'From the newspapers we received some very excellent coverage, which aided us in having a large turnout. A luncheon was served."' 698 wpe ce September 1969 -. Sevier Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents Spring Festival and Fashion Show, March 29, 1969 Madge Parks, former president, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our spring festival and fashion show was the highlight of the year's activities. Each of the ten wards and the Lamanite Branch participated. There were 112 models ranging from grandmothers to small children. "The variety of clothing was amazing, and all was well styled and made by the Relief Society sisters. Each ward had chosen a theme and prepared its own script, all of which were well presented and cleverly written. Appropriate music was played throughout the program by Louise Miller, stake organist. 'Each of the wards had prepared a display table under the direction of Marguerite Hatch, homemaking leader. These displays were attractively arranged for viewing after the show. "Light refreshments were served by the stake board. All in all, it was a delightful afternoon for the nearly 500 people who attended." The new president of Sevier Stake Relief Society is Edna J. Haynie. Summit Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''Let Music Fill the Earth,'' May 1, 1969 Seated in front, left to right: Alice J. Wilde, President, Summit Stake Relief Society; Thelma Brown, First Counselor; Elda F. Pace, chorister. Directly behind Counselor Brown: Esther R. Brown, organist. Sister Wilde reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented a very lovely program with the theme. 'Let Music Fill the Earth.' Approximately seventy-five Singing Mothers participated along with three brethren and a group of Primary children. The script was written by Lucelle R. Taylor. "The purpose of the program was to illustrate how music represents every phase of life—motherhood, nature, happiness, courage, valor, and brotherhood. 'Each ward was given an assignment of special songs to prepare. Much effort was put into learning these songs, and the final performance was outstanding." East Los Angeles Stake (California), Ditman Branch Holds Bazaar and Observes Birthday of Relief Society March 19, 1969 Iram Olivas at one of handicraft displays of the Ditman Branch bazaar. Margaret W. Clark, President, East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Ditman Branch of our ward is made up of Spanish-speaking families. Their Relief Society activities have been well-planned and an inspiration to all of us. 'In December a lovely bazaar was held, with an abundance of lovely handicraft articles, much of it reminiscent of their Mexican heritage. Sister Aleine Young and Sister Reba Aldous of the General Board of Relief Society attended the bazaar. 'In honor of the birthday of Relief Society, the visiting teachers of the ward encouraged the members to attend a gala celebration. As a result, refreshments were served to 130 people, all of whom had enjoyed a well-planned and executed program." 700 GT Si REE sh PR a Gene EA BRaP age a a a Te September 1969 Glendale Stake (California) Presents ''Carousel of Creativity,'' March 14, 1969 Winners of Glendale Stake creative writing and music composition contest, seated, left to right: Barbara B. Moffat; Grace B. Brown; Jane S. Jamison; Lola M. Sandbloom; Mardy M. Starman. Standing, left to right: Marcia Bridge; Mariel T. Anaya; Floy Daun Mackay; Sandra S. Fraser; Ruth B. Powell. Unita W. Welch, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society reports: ''The thirteen wards in our stake combined to present a 'Carousel of Creativity,' in honor of the 127th birthday of Relief Society. This was an all-day event, with an arts and crafts display arranged in an attractive carousel setting. There were demonstrations of hand loom weaving and soap making. "The Singing Mothers performed the winning entries in our year-long music composition contest, and the writing compositions were presented by the authors. 'Each sister in the stake received a printed invitation and guests were encouraged. The programs were presented twice, and an estimated 1200 people were in attendance." (TO Eee EES Fresno Stake (California) Relief Society Sponsors ''Happy Homemaker's Seminar-Workshop" March 15, 1969 Norma G. Boswell, President, Fresno Stake Relief Society, reports: ''One of the most successful programs ever carried forth by our Relief Society was our 'Happy Homemaker Seminar-Workshop.' We were fortunate that advance ticket sales and reservations indicated that our expectations would be doubled, and we were able to accommodate the more than 600 who attended. Good weather enabled us to serve the luncheon out of doors. 'Each ward in the stake was responsible for one demonstration, and each presented a very lovely and informative display. Also participating were several arts and crafts distributors from our area, and several individuals presented their talents in display and seminar. "Among the many helpful demonstrations were gold leafing, ceramic making, cake decorating, food storage, table settings, and many other crafts. This was indeed a helpful day for the sisters in our stake and for the many nonmembers who attended. We hope this will prove to be a missionary endeavor. We were fortunate to have good publicity coverage, which added greatly to the success of the event."' OO ER A a a a Mill Creek Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present '"'The Lord Has Given Me a Song,"' April 25, 1969 Directly behind pulpit, left to right: Bernice Hamilton, President, Mill Creek Stake Relief Society; Olive Partridge, chorister. Sister in the dark dress by the piano to the left: Lillis Spencer, organist. Sister Hamilton reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented an outstanding program portraying the songs that have inspired us in life. This was done through song, narration, and tableau. The narration was written by Jennie Bauman, First Counselor, and read by Florine Simmons, cultural refinement class leader. | 'Each ward presented a special number together with three numbers with the combined stake chorus. Approximately 150 participated including twenty Primary children. "After the concert refreshments were served and a bazaar based on the same theme was held. Each ward decorated around a song title. This was under the direction of Inez Nash, Second Counselor and Ella Nielsen, homemaking leader. More than 500 were in attendance, making this a very special event." 702 a ie) a9 9 0 —_ 1 es Meet | rT Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Sa Government and Laws (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 134) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks to uphold the law and work within the law in seeking any desired change. INTRODUCTION PROPHECY FULFILLED Latter-day Saints are known An incident in American politias loyal citizens of the countries cal history involving the Prophet in which they live. About eightJoseph Smith and Stephen A. Een months after The Church of Douglas, a political figure, emJesus Christ of Latter-day Saints _phasized the point that the Lord was organized, the Lord com-_ respects his people when they manded his people not to break conform to his laws and to the law of the land, for if they laws of the land. The prophecy kept the laws of God there would also affirms the truth that Joseph be no reason for breaking thelaws Smith enjoyed the _ prophetic of the land. (D&C 58:21-22.) gift. (B. H. Roberts, New WitBefore this time, instructions nesses for God, Vol. 1, pp. 304- were given to the authorities of 13.) On May 18, 1843, the Prophet the Church that in cases of ingave the following prophecy to fractions of the moral law, the and about Stephen A. Douglas, guilty should be delivered up to a little known judge in Illinois the law of the land. (D&C 42: at that time: 84-87.) Later, in two revelations, Judge, you willl aspines tole cama the saints came to know that dency of the United States; and if you the Constitution of the United — ever turn your hand against me or the States was an inspired document Latter-day Saints, you will feel the and that they should uphold it. Oa hen: a, Nene a (D&C 98:4-7; 101: 76-80.) know that I have testified the truth to 704 you; for the conversation of this day will stick to you through hfe. (/bid., p. 305.) By 1857 Judge Douglas, United States Senator from the State of Illinois and then aspirant to the presidency of the United States, delivered a speech in which he alleged that the Mormons in Utah Territory were disloyal to the federal government and that they incited Indian tribes against that government. He then referred to the saints as a "pestiferous, disgusting cancer which is gnawing into the very vitals of the body politic. It must be cut out by the roots, and seared over by' the red hot iron of stern and unflinching law." ([bid., p. 308.) Although Senator Douglas knew the Latter-day Saint people as a law-abiding people and knew about their persecutions in Missouri, he disregarded the voice of prophecy and, in the presidential election of 1860, was defeated by the Republican candidate,. Abraham Lincoln. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS—1835 When the Church sought to print a compilation of the revelations received by Joseph Smith by 1833, a mob destroyed the ' printing press and_ practically all of the printed material. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, Vol. 1, p. 390 [called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as. DHC].) Consequently, the Book of Commandments was never available to the members of the Church, mere for a very few copies. Lesson Department On August 17, 1835, a general assembly of the Church met to agree on publishing a _ second compilation to be known as the Doctrine and Covenants. The priesthood members _present testified to the truth of the revelations. Oliver Cowdery read an article entitled "Governments and. Laws in General." The article was. Approved and ordered printed in the volume. (DHC, Vol. 2, pp. 243-47.) In order to present the truth concerning the Church's belief about law, because of accusations that it did not uphold the law, it was felt necessary to prepare this article. "OUR OPINION" It was printed in the 1835 edition of the Doctrine and Covenants and appears' as Section 134 in the current edition. The following preamble to the article is not a part of Section 134: That our belief with regard to earthly governments and laws in general may not be misinterpreted nor misunderstood, we have thought proper to present at the close of this volume our. Opinion concerning the same. (D&C 134 introduction.) This article is an "opinion" and not a revelation, and therefore "does not hold the same place in the doctrines of the Church as do the revelations." (Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, 1965, p. 852.) On the other hand, Section 134 was presented to the Church assembled in 1835 and several times since that year as binding upon the members of the Church. 705 September 1969 The laws that now govern the nations of the earth will be supplanted by laws instituted by the Savior when he takes his place to reign as King of kings. (Ibid., pp. 204-05; D&C 38:21-22.) GOD-ORDAINED GOVERNMENTS The Lord raised up men to formulate the Constitution of the United States that principles of freedom might be exercised in this promised land. Only in this kind of political climate could The Church of Jesus Christ be established in the last days. The land of America was kept hid from the nations that this land might indeed be a place where divine prophecies might be fulfilled. (Ezra Taft Benson, Conference Report, October 1961, p. 69.) The perfect form of government was instituted in the days of Adam, but later the sons of men rebelled against these principles of righteousness. (Moses 5:12-13.) Although Section 134 suggests that governments were instituted for the benefit of men, it is evident that all governments are not in this category. (D&C 134:1.) The Lord does not originate laws contrary to eternal principles such as free agency. As Elder Erastus Snow said, all forms of government are bettern than none at all in that order is maintained by governments though some of them may not be the best forms. (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 22, p. 151.) Nonetheless, God controls the nations though he is not the originator of those governments. (Brigham Young, 706 Journal Vol. 6, p. 342.) of Discourses, STANDARD OF JUDGMENT The governments set up by men serve a purpose in the eternal plan by requiring men to govern their lives according to law. (D&C 76:111; 134:1.) The Prophet Joseph Smith said: He [God] will award judgment or mercy to all nations according to their several deserts, their means of obtaining intelligence, the laws by which they are governed, the facilities afforded them of obtaining correct information, and His inscrutable designs in relation to the human family.... (DHC, Vol. 4, p. 596.) This statement is recognized to be true when one realizes that God is the author of righteousness and that, woven in the various laws of the _ nations, there are laws which are also found in the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Stephen L Richards, Conference Report, October 1923, p. 47.) Also, there are many laws which are contrary to righteous principles. The framers of laws and governments are held accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making and in administering them. (Smith and Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, 1965, pp. 852-53; D&C 134:1, 6.) SECTION 134 By 1835, when Section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants was prepared, the saints had suffered persecution, loss of property and lives, and their freedom of religious belief had been challenged. It is understandable why they would want their own beliefs concerning law and governments made known. This section might be divided into the following parts: (1) basic rights, (2) governments and officials, (3) religious societies and beliefs, and (4) noninterference in the rights of others. BASIC RIGHTS After the statement that men are accountable to the governments under which they live, man's fundamental rights are stated in these words: We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property and the protection of life. (D&C 134:2.) President David O. McKay has called attention to the fact that "there is innate in man a feeling that will rebel against tyranny." (Deseret News, Church Section, January 2, 1952, p. 3.) Men have come up from oppression to overthrow coercive governments. The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States are examples of the declared rights of men and the protection afforded. Where there is an infringement of these basic rights, the following belief is expressed: We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the right of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same; but we believe that all men are justified in defending themselves, their friends, and Lesson Department property, and the government, from the unlawful assaults and encroachments of all persons in times of exigency, where immediate appeal cannot be made to the laws, and relief afforded. (D&C 134: li) Class Discussion Under today's conditions, what can we do to help preserve the three basic nghts mentioned in D&C 134:2? GOVERNMENTS AND OFFICIALS Latter-day Saints during this dispensation, and especially during the time of Joseph Smith, have had many unfortunate experiences with government officials who had not upheld the constitutional rights of the saints. The following verse points out the obligation of civil magistrates upholding the law of the land in their decisions: We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign. We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the _ respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience. (D&C 134:3, 5.) In an earlier revelation the saints were counseled to uphold wise and honest men in public office; otherwise, evil would result. (D&C 928:8-10.) It may not 707 September 1969 always be possible to determine between the wise and the unwise, but the Lord has given some standards by which to make decisions about principles or political issues. Laws which deny men their agency (D&C 98:4-8) and those which permit them to do evil should be changed. (Moro. 7:14-19.) Class Discussion What measures should a people take to insure that their liberties are held inviolate? The history of the Church provides the answer. Despite the plunderings, mobbings, acts of rapine, and loss of property and lives, the saints followed the counsel expressed in D&C 134:11. By divine commandment the Prophet Joseph Smith appealed to the President of the United States and the Congress for redress of crimes committed against them in Missouri. (D&C 101: 81-95; Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 287-94.) One is reminded that the Lord counseled his saints who had been driven from Jackson County, Missouri, in 1833 and 1834 that they were not to fight for the redemption of Zion, but that he would, in his time, fight their battles. (D&C 105:14-15.) BREAKERS OF THE LAW Those who break the law should be punished according to the seriousness of the offense. Governments have the right to regulate their societies for the preservation of peace and order. Latter-day Saints are enjoined to bring offenders against the law to justice. (D&C 134:8.) They should also sustain the 708 law enforcement arms of government that all might have justice. Class Discussion Do we as Latter-day Saint women by example encourage our children to uphold the duly appointed officers of the law? RELIGIOUS SOCIETIES AND BELIEFS Eleven years after Section 134 was written, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote the Articles of Faith. The eleventh article is as follows: "We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may." This same statement of belief lies at the basis of what is contained in verse 4 of Section 134. The privilege of religious worship is the right of every man, provided it does not infringe upon the rights and liberties of others. Equally so, Latter-day Saints believe that government does not have the right to prescribe rules of worship, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion. (D&C 134:4, 7.) There should not be favoritism shown for one religion over another. (D&C 134:9.) The following principles were given by the First Presidency of the Church: We declare that from principle and policy, we favor: The absolute separation of church and state; No domination of the state by the church; No church interference with the functions of the state; No state interference with the functions of the church, or with the free exercise of religion; The absolute freedom of the individual from the domination of ecclesiastical authority in political affairs; The equality of all churches before the law. ("An address, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the World," Conference Report, April 1907, p. 14.) EXCOMMUNICATION AND DISFELLOWSHIP The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints maintains that religious societies have the right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, but the punishment should not extend to taking their property or jeopardizing their lives. The penalties for misconduct in the Church are excommunication and disfellowship. (D&C 134:10.) To be disfellowshiped means that the person remains a member of the Church, but he is limited in what he may do. He may attend meetings, but he may not participate in the activities of the Church. Excommunication removes one from the records of the Church and thus he loses all of the privileges of Church membership. There are three offenses for which one may be punished: (1) the breaking of the moral law, (2) deliberate disobedience to the regulations of the Church, and (3) incorrect interpretation of doctrine when the correct teachings have been explained and the person is unwilling to accept them. (John A. Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, 1954, p. 209.) | IMPLEMENTATION Not long after The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Lesson Department was organized, a conference of the Church adopted a set of principles regarding governments and Laws in general. (D&C 134.) Since then the members of the Church have accepted these beliefs as binding upon themselves. To indicate the consistency and application of that early document to the present, the following statement from President David O. McKay is given:. I repeat that no greater immediate responsibility rests upon members of the Church, upon all citizens of the Republic and of neighboring Republics than to protect the freedom vouchsafed by the Constitution of the United States. Let us, by exercising our privileges under the Constitution— (1) Preserve our right to worship God according to the dictates of our conscience, (2) Preserve the right to work when and where we choose. No free man should be compelled to pay tribute in order to realize this God-given privilege. Read in the Doctrine and Covenants this statement: "... It is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another."' (D&C 101:79.) (3) Feel free to plan and to reap without the handicap of bureaucratic interference. (4) Devote our time, means, and life if necessary, to hold inviolate those laws which will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. To sum up this whole question: In these days of uncertainty and unrest, liberty-loving people's greatest responsibility and paramount duty is to preserve and proclaim the freedom of the individual, his relationship to Deity, and... The necessity of obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ—only thus will mankind find peace and happiness. (Conference Report, April 1950, p. 37.) 709 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 3—The Compassion of Jesus Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that Jesus' compassionate acts are a standard for us all. Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not....(Mark 10:14.)... O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour. (Matt. 15:28.) Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn thou not away. (3 Ne. 12:42.). Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them who despitefully use you and persecute you. (3 Ne. 12:44.) do alms unto the poor. (3 Ne. 13:1.)... [Jesus] healed all their sick, and their lame, and opened the eyes of their blind and unstopped the ears of the deaf, and even had done all manner of cures among them, and raised a man from the dead....(8 Ne. 26:15.) We are deeply moved by Jesus' compassion shown to all those in need. The joy of the parents of the healed child vibrates in every heart. We marvel at the healing and ministering to those in need when Christ visited the Nephites after his resurrection. We sense their spiritual awakening and commitment as he taught them. Compassion, love, mercy, forgiveness—the scriptures bloom 710 with the flowers of Christ's teachings and love. As he looked upon the multitudes he had compassion on them for they had no shepherd. He healed the sick and raised the dead and dying but, perhaps more important than this, he fed the soul in need. To the sinner who would drink he gave the healing waters of the Spirit. The poor, the persecuted, the injured, the sinner, the prisoner, the despised, and outcast—all victims of evil felt his lasting concern. Compassion with Jesus was not a sometime thing but a way of life, a constant, instant response to need. His parables glow with his sensitivity, his empathy, his discernment, and with action to relieve. Even in the agony of death his inner light did not fail. His thoughts were of the welfare of others, "... Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." (Luke 23:34.) What greater expression of compassion exists? The teaching "... Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit...." (John 3:5), speaks to us of the necessity for fundamental change. One's inner life Lesson Department will be different when this rebe no hungry of body or spirit, birth takes place. One will befor we, knowing their need, will come a_ loving, Compassionate search them out and feed them. Individual, one with Jesus. This There will be no naked, for we, rebirth of the spirit is not a having known deprivation and Single instant act of regeneracold, will clothe them. No adolestion but a lifelong, often slow cent will fight and scream in proand painful, process during which test because we wil] love and our attitudes, values, underhelp him. No orphan, widow, or standing, and behavior arechangchild will cry without relief ed. Only then will this oneness because we will dry their tears. With Jesus be so encompassing No prisoner will gO untended that all contrary impulses wil] because we will minister to his be overcome. Needs. No neighbor will grow In the meantime we must bitter because we will find the view with continuing Sympathy time to care. Utopia? Some will and compassion our efforts and Say so. Yet, Jesus set the standthose of others to change and ard. He makes the impossible grow. There will be much back- _ possible. He calls us to be one sliding, even failure, until] we with him and the Father in love, have learned to respond with in mercy, forgiveness, and comlove, compassion, and understandPassion. Ing to all men. Then there will] ee Se Es HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness ete ee | Discussion 3—"'The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her, So That He Shall Have No Need of Spoil." (Prov. 31:11.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To recognize that debt must be controlled to insure family happiness and financial security. INTRODUCTION _ 9 his taskmaster. This is a truth He who spends what he does that some of us fail 'to realize not have purchases only chains as we allow our wants and dethat bind him. He becomes a_ sires for goods and services to Slave to the future. The freedom exceed our ability to pay for which he professes to cherish is them. Relinquished and debt becomes Wise men of every age bear 711 September 1969 record of the folly of overspending—whether it be of our time, our energy, or our money. Benjamin Franklin, the well-known exponent of common sense in all practical affairs, made the following comment: "Think what you do when you run into debt; you give to another power over your liberty." Our Church leaders have had no hesitancy in admonishing us to keep out of debt. Following are some of their instructions: The Prophet Joseph Smith: Let thy hand never fail to hand out that thou owest while it is yet within thy grasp to do so. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 317.) President Brigham Young:.. Be prompt in everything, and especially to pay your debts. (Bngham Young, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 14, p. 279 [hereafter referred to as JD].) Also: It is an old saying that a woman can throw out of the window with a spoon as fast as a man can throw into the door with a shovel; but a good housekeeper will be saving and economical, and teach her children to be good housekeepers, and how to take care of everything that is put in their charge... (JD, Vol. 12, p. 195.) President John Taylor: We are told to pay our debts... To keep out of debt and meet our obligations day by day. (JD, Vol. 20, p. 103.) President Joseph F. Smith: "Get out of debt now... And let your income hereafter always be greater than your expenses." That is the only safe way to be independent... The advice of Benjamin Franklin should ever stand clearly before you: "Pay as you go." (The Improvement Era, Nov. 1938, pp. 668, 673.) President George Albert Smith: We have been taught by those whom the Lord has raised up to instruct us 712 that we should live within our income, that we should not spend as rapidly, and certainly not more rapidly, than we can earn the money that comes into our hands, to take care of ourselves and our families. (Church News, August 8, 1959, p. 2.) A THREAT TO FAMILY HAPPINESS AND SOLIDARITY It is common knowledge that more family problems and difficulties stem from the mismanagement of financial affairs than from any other source. In an address given during the 136th Semi-Annual General Conference, John H. Vandenberg, the Presiding Bishop of the Church, said: Unwarrantable indebtedness is one of the curses of this day and age. It causes many people to live their lives in bondage. The lure of buying on time under the 'easy payment plan" too often puts the millstone around the neck of the purchaser; and when once in the credit rut, it is very hard to get out When a family finds itself too far in debt, the atmosphere of discouragement enters the home, relationships become tense, tempers become short, and marital trouble begins to erupt. To meet the indebtedness, the mother may frequently leave her children to themselves while she finds employment out of the home. Irregularities in the home follow: service to God is disregarded, tithing is neglected, prayers become less frequent, persons begin to feel separated and apart from God and church. (Conference Report, Oct. 1966, p. 66.) WHY DO WE GO IN DEBT? The most common reasons for serious financial problems which result in family indebtedness are: 1. Lack of careful and adequate planning. A. Careless, unplanned day-to-day spending. 2. Spending in excess of the income. 3. Failure to establish future, long-range goals. A. No reserves for future expenditures. B. Lack of incentive as a curb to spending. 4. Emotional immaturity—lack of selfdiscipline. A. Allowing wants to take precedence over needs. B. Buying impulsively and heedlessly. C. Demanding unwarranted luxuries. 5. Too much installment buying. 6. Overuse of credit cards. 7. Unexpected illness requiring hospital and doctor care. 8. Loss of employment. HOW CAN WE AVOID DEBT? 1. We can avoid going into debt by first eliminating whenever possible the foregoing reasons for it. 2. We should become informed in regard to wise buying and spending. (Consult previous "Homemaking" discussion.) 3. We should avoid so-called easy credit plans. Lesson Department 4. We should make sure that credit cards are used only when they fit into our planned spending. CONCLUSION We, the homemakers, are responsible to a large degree for the expenditure of the family funds. When we mismanage our financial affairs and allow ourselves to go into debt, we place upon the balance wheel on one side the unjustified fulfillment of immediate wants and _ desires and on the other side the peace of mind of our husbands and the happiness of the entire family. By following the advice of our leaders and by planning with our family members a wise program of spending and saving, we can avoid financial problems that could end in debt and disaster. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 3—The Upward Reach Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 20 and 22.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1969 Southern: Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To illustrate that all may enjoy man's material progress but our spiritual achievements must be individually attained. INTRODUCTION 6c a man's reach should exceed his grasp, Or what's a heaven for?" wrote Robert Browning in "Andrea del Sarto." This idea—the reach of man for that which is beyond his present grasp, the goal yet to be obtained—is central to this lesson. Nothing identifies with the 713 September 1969 Inherent Upward reach of Man higher than your Present 5 ate, then as does the 80Spel of Jesus Christ. © important thing is that he moyIt is the Cause of hig being €arthane be upward ward that Boal Orn, it is the Toad by w Ich he 4 es Laer es oa em 'yo May ascen higher and higher not, ho should affect you, through end] time hether attitude toward € accepts al] of its dj € princia yourself Ples or not, he jg th recipient " Your children of the €ssential bless & of im. Q YOU neighbor F.; * Your clagg leader Mor tality th B1ves him Op- °. The writer of the lesson? Portunity for his endless UPWard 5. Do you thin mothers often ma reach. Discoura children Xpectin his lesson, Which ll be used Inished-pr uct Perfectio 00 soon? In December IN the orthern P nl Clark ais -;.. € days 9 Cur infane an Hemisp here, ul discuss ) a ur early childhood are filled ah a ellorts to tr; ph Over the Imitaowing Wareness of, Space, 10ns of th hysica] laws that gravity, the elements, and bodily we encoy In everyda livin Well being: 4 d thence ¢ the grave and (2) our inheren} d sire to IS a Constant Struggle Overcome Zo beyo do Yr prese t toward a a handicaps, the j; bitions and nitations, impo Y these Si hig er SPpiritua self. [ will Speak ca incidents Our bein To the rlefly of ristmas an oc- &alning o the ©Xperiences of MasterCasion for Otivating love, coming them must be added the €xPeriences Passion, and charity for Others. Having to do ith maki g he biologica} It will use a g excerpt from Part of Man articulate and the cul an im ressive Writin Presj. Tivation Interchang of thought t Dp en Clay a a cs dE ernal Lj Vol en, 7 » lesson titled « Upward Reach" nd 7 Read ll tatement — ea e 7 Owing sta ement by "SSOns, as indicated, resident Cla k. Discy it efly, keepin mM mind 9 r present orts to under. THE UPWARD REACH Stand the Peoples of the w Id... The nearer comes the Conquest of This lesson Pp marily is One these [the ¢ Itivation and interchange OF relation hips— lationships of thought] € nearer come men One to 4nother nd o Our inOgether, and the ne rer men approach IVidua relationship to our Heay One another, the nearer Comes the enly Fa er, for man does not UNiversa] brotherhood Of men and Walk alone' S he reaches out "r ultimate p erfection ) (bid. From himself and upward through life experienc Question Class Partic; 'ON— Questions and = How j Portant is man's Struggle to iScussion Stat ent triumph Over such Obstac] as time Space, disease, and the elements to his 1. What does the Phrase "upward reach Benera] "PWard reach? Discuss, of man" SUgest to you? 2 OW does this aff ' WITNESS THE CONQUEST you individually r In the following quoted ex. 714 cerpt we trace through vivid description the efforts of man to conquer and to utilize the forces that would restrict him, as President Clark takes us_ swiftly through the ages: Of House From the shelter of a tree or cave, through the lean-to, the log hut, the adobe house, to the giant structure of steel, concrete, and glass, housing a city within its four walls; Of Road from the lone foot path in the forest, through the dirt road, the dust and mud of the city street, the paved sidewalk, the paved thoroughfare, to the great concrete ribbon spanning a continent; Of Transportation and Communication from the pack of a few pounds on a man's back, through the oxcart, the horse and buggy, to the railroad with its thousands of tons, the autotruck; from the fleetest runner through the pony express, the fast mail train, to the airplane traveling half as fast as the earth revolves on its axis [1940]; Of Voice from the shout that, with fair air, carried a few hundred feet, through the telephone linking cities, to the radio carrying the voice round the globe with the speed of light (we have yet to reach the speed of thought); And— Word of Man from the passing down of story and song by word of mouth, through the invention of written characters, the writing by hand on bulky scrolls of parchment, on rushes, on paper, then to the printing press with its plain black letters, Of Art through woodcuts, steel engravings, lithographs, photogravures, and gorgeous pages in natural colors; Of Medical Skill... From the mangled, gangrenous broken leg demanding a life, through amputation with hideous pain without anesthetic, to the most refined and delicate painless operation upon the very seat of the mind itself—all these but indicate man's Lesson Department conquest of his inhibitions and limitations.... However stable or unstable, however complete or incomplete these conquests may be, they mark human progress—how great relatively we may not measure for we do not know the ultimate. But man seems to have come great distances. But these conquests of energy and force, which make human progress, add to human comfort and well being, increase knowledge and quicken intelligence, and, above all (and this the end of it all), promote human happiness, for the ancient prophet declared, "... Men are that they might have joy." (Ibid.) Class Discussion In the light of the foregoing description of human conquest discuss the following statements: Happiness comes in proportion as we lift ourselves beyond the reach of the penalty of earth law; and _ perfection comes nearer with happiness. (Ibid.) An ancient psalmist sang, "The law is the truth." Equate this statement with the performing of a miracle. As we make these truths our own, so perfection approaches. It was by his perfect knowledge of truth... That Jesus turned water into wine, multiplied the loaves and fishes, escaped from the threatening mob on the edge of the cliff at Nazareth and again within the temple walls at Jerusalem, that took him into the room with closed windows and doors to visit the fearsome, questioning, doubting apostles, indeed that brought him forth from the tomb the first fruits of the resurrection. (Ibid.) NOT BY THE MATERIAL ALONE For Class Discussion 1. Why are many individuals not content with conquest over the material things only? 2. In your opinion, what is one major difference between the conquest over material things and conquest over the intellectual and spiritual hmitations? 715 September 1969 President Clark points out a very important difference. He states: But the things already spoken of [mastery over the physical limitations] only lead out toward perfection but not to it, for perfection may not be reached by mastery over the material things alone. Perfection means also the _ subjugation of the intellectual and spiritual limitations and inhibitions which are incident to the flesh. But there is an essential and fundamental difference between conquest and achievement in the physical and in the spiritual world. One need not do the works of Morse or Edison or Marconi in order fully to enjoy and use the telegraph, the telephone, the gramophone, or the radio; nor need one do the works of the Wrights in order to enjoy and use the airplane. The most ignorant and depraved of men may use all these things for his own purposes, to serve his own ends, good or bad, for the benefit or injury of others, as fully as they who made them. So likewise it is with the works of the great artists, sculptors, musicians, dramatists, and men of letters. Save only the creative joy which those alone who make may know, these masterpieces may be fully understood, appreciated, and enjoyed by any one without doing the works of the creator. But it is not so with the things of the spirit. (Ibid.) THINGS OF THE SPIRIT Class Discussion 1. What do "things of the spirit" mean to you? 2. Enumerate several specific things. President Clark makes this clarification, referring to things of the spirit: One must do the works of Elijah if one would know his joy, have part in his blessings, share his glory, exercise his power and authority, and do the things he did. And surely the power to bring rain to a famine stricken land, to call down fire from heaven, 716 to cause the starving widow's barrel of meal not to waste, her cruse of oil not to fail, to restore to life her dead son, to declare the past and foretell the future—surely these things are beyond compare; they may not be valued, nor purchased, nor hired; they are beyond price. Here the works and the use are companions that never part. ([bid.) Save for the atoning sacrifice of the Son and the doing of certain initiatory rites for the dead, (and even these must be accepted and adopted by the dead) nothing can be vicariously done, in matters of the spirit, by one for another. ([bid.) The truths stated and illustrated by President Clark are important to this lesson and of vital importance to our individual lives, even to the relationships in the home, in the neighborhood, wherever individuals live together. | Numerous situations illustrate the fact that for full development of that which we consider spiritual, a _ relationship with others is essential. Let us name a few of the qualities that we must develop within ourselves if we are to grow spiritually. Our spiritual guidance comes from the Father and his Son, whose life exemplified that perfection for which we strive. Class Questions 1. What are some of the spiritual attributes which Jesus possessed that we are striving to develop? 2. Do the qualities you have suggested involve human relationships? Discuss. 3. Do not love, compassion, unselfishness, service, forgiveness apply to human relationships in every woman's life? If they do, then surely we need one another in order to grow spiritually. Discuss briefly. FUNDAMENTAL TO CHRISTIANITY Although we may thus assist one another to grow in spirituality, it is fundamental to Christianity that each individual is responsible for his own life, his own upward reach, his own soul. A mother's faith and unwavering testimony belong to her, my neighbor's readiness to forgive does not make of me a forgiving person. Each must earn these blessings for herself. President Clark states: Thus every person shall make his own mind [as to] what his life shall be. None shall make it for him. Whether he will be satisfied with that part of salvation which pertains to the physical world, or whether he shall go on and add to this the salvation and exaltation of the spiritual universe, is for his own choice. For him indeed who would conquer the flesh for the blessings of the spirit, there is a joy awaiting which exceeds all power of description.. (lbid.) OF OUR BETTER SELVES As we travel the upward road toward those higher goals for which we reach there may. Be periods of accelerated growth. Certain individuals, special situations, and occasions may motivate us to a better performance than usual, to wider horizons of thought, where we may understand what we have never known before. These we should not forget. These we should cherish always. Christmas can be one of these occasions. During the kindly yuleLesson Department tide, we reach out beyond ourselves with compassion for others, motivated to a _ generosity of thought and deed. In this season of good will the lonely, the poor, the forgotten become our individual concern. If we will close our ears to the sounding brass and the tinkling cymbal of material things we may hear wise voices reminding us not to seek for the riches of earth. Voices saying such as this: After all, this existence of ours here is temporary. It is smaller than a drop in the ocean, as compared with eternity. We were before we came here; we are here; and we shall be after we go hence. This life is but one tiny line in this vast extension of existence. Do not forget,... The goodness and the mercy and the kindness of the Savior. Do not forget the blessings which the Gospel has for you. Do not overlook the joy of the spirit, the joy which comes from living as the Savior has taught us to live.. Seek after the treasures of the spirit, seek after the riches of goodness and mercy and righteous living. Go always after those things which are good.... Discard the dross, cast it aside, trample it underfoot; cherish always and guard that which is beautiful in your lives. (Jbid., lesson 20.) Such counsel is for the upward reach of man. Listen to it through this season of remembering the birthday of our Lord. For Home Doing Bring as much spirituality into your home this Christmas time as possible. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 717 September 1969 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 -~.__..75 (Lo\(\:) <n60 Zone6 ____.-85 Zone4 ___ -_.65 Zone7 _~__--95 Zone8__-_-.1.05 —_— % PESERET PREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Learn a Career with a future Ada Mortensen Rose Elder We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved Send now for eS our brochure 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 Ole WO70US t Beesley MUSIC COMPANY ''Singing Mothers"' 'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Come in and acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours o> HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK October 12th-26th ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26th-January 2nd via San Francisco or via San Diego Cm™ Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 718 Lesson Department COURAGE nD: 9 Have you shed some love Upon your faith today? Have you spoken kindly To the one who went astray? Has your faith grown stronger e Through the trials you've had to bear, pl THI To purify as gold.: [ That we may enter The glories still untold 2 _2 —Hazel E. Shaw Subiaco, Western Australia Or have you bowed down UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. In deep despair? Burdens are sent to try us, Travel Agency 1970 Tours MEXICO Only $359 from Provo, Utah Includes' entertainment, sightseeing, and ocean cruise | Early June 1969—February 1970 January 16 — 24 days — Yucatan, Oaxaca, Veracruz, Mexico City, Mazatlan, Guadalajara, Acapulco, Taxco — $499 January 22—12 days February 20—17 days,$359 February 22—10 days. HAWAII CANADIAN TOKYO WORLD'S our islands NORTH-WEST FAIR AND ORIENT only $389 Special rates for groups ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 719 99 97 96 94 93 92 Diithday Congratulations Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. Mrs. Matilda Sandburg Andrus Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Emily Chadwick Zaugg West Point, Utah Minna Mandelkow Kirchoff Salt Lake City, Utah 'Mrs. Clara Munk Anderson Manti, Utah 91 _ Mrs. Ellen Brown Barrett North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Rosa Bell Warner Lawson Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Euphemia. McKenzie McGregor Morgan Sandy, Utah. —_— 90 Mrs. Elizabeth Thompson Raee Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Bertha Reidel Wagner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida Clark Dowdel Woolsey ' Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida Taylor Flinders Ogden, Utah 'Mrs. Ellen Kap Hansen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Adelaide Snow Killpack Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Whitehead Oliverson Lava Hot Springs, Idaho Mrs. Margaret Field Baird Ogden, Utah Mrs. Alice Ann Broadhead Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Roberta Flake Clayton Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Lyle Young Gates Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Ann Henline Glasscock Azusa, California Mrs. Georgiana Cropper Johnson Aurora, Utah Mrs. Adelaide Prestwick Shaw Orem, Utah Mrs. Lettie A. Stephenson Stevens Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen (Nellie) Thomas Wanlass Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown Centerville, Utah Mrs. Olene Hansen Carson Manti, Utah Mrs. Ellen Lundberg Chiverall Midvale, Utah Mrs: Sarah Groves Crosby Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Hattie Burgess Spanjersberg Emmett, Idaho Mrs. Emma Janet Anthon Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Effie Lulu Roberts Emery Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Cordelia Andelin Farnsworth Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Butehorn Hahl Edison, New Jersey Mrs. Hattie Elizabeth Walton Heningen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Peary Jacobsen Provo, Utah Mrs. Ada Frances Bryson. Jardine Bountiful, Utah Mrs.- Effie Busenbark Johnson Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Olga F. L. Peterson Larsen Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Viola Smith Petker Arroyo Grande, California Mrs: Mary (Molly) Toponce Story Ogden, Utah Mrs. Olive Vilate Campbell Wilson Ogden, Utah Available in Mid-September Order Now For Delivery When Ready OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS = Volume 5 $3.25 il by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Od =,. The Role of Education The Power of Work The Place of Entertainment i The Meaning of Freedom The Problem of Communications These are but a few of the topics covered in the latest edition (Volume 5) of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS. This is the text for the 1969- 70 Relief Society Cultural Refinement course. All topics follow the theme "Community Responsibility." In a day of so much dissension in so many communities, this book presents valuable information on the problems which can lead to such dissension. You may Volume 5will NOT be available until mid-September, learn more about your part put ORDERS PLACED NOW will be filled in the in community responsibility \equence received. SEND ORDERS NOW! Here in these selections from | Postage will be paid for SURFACE MAIL ANYthe world's greatest literaVHERE IN THE WORLD. Customer must pay for Air _ ture. Fail requests. DESERET BOOK COMPANY | "Book 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 me copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Vol. 5 Mmeeroost$ a.| enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account [] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. \ ' N \, N \ ' \; \ Please send me L} Sept. R. S. Mag, 69 Dazzling EVV, Dackaq = Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Besides a new face' on each package, full-color food illustrations lead right around to a brand new selection of Cynthia Scott Family Tested" recipes on the back of each of our new powdered, brown, fine granulated and superfine cartons It's U and tf grown nearby! The Relicf Society Magazine

