
OCTOBER 1969 AUTUMN SEASON The aspen leaves fall to the fallow ground, | Rustling on the air, soft as a sigh; The red of maples form a contrast, bright As some flamenco dancer's eager cry. The hills in petit-point of varied hues, From mauve to umber, to a lavish grape, Make backdrop for an earth richly endowed With new-found shades and sounds, a richer shape. This is a scene for briefer, cooler days, - For scents of harvest... Apples, pungent, sweet; For pumpkins ready for the harvesting, And for the song of summer birds' retreat.: This is as beautiful a time, and season As ever comes, although it breathes of sorrow. Its bounty is enough. Enjoy it now. Skies brood; leaves fall, snow comes tomorrow. - Christie Lund Coles The Cover: § Gold Poplars and Blue Mountains, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: | Meadow in the Mountains, Near Steamboat Springs, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: § Dick Scopes lustrations: J} Mary Scopes 

What a thrill it was to see my story "Missionaries to Dinner," in the July Magazine,
and special thanks to Mary Scopes for her appropriate illustrations. I have read and
enjoyed the Magazine for nearly seventeen years and am truly grateful for the literary
contests that give the sisters an opportunity to develop their writing ability.
Joan N, M\\rmn, Huntington Beach, California
I wish to express my appreciation for such a fine Magazine. All of us sisters in the
Servicemen's Branch in Giessen find the messages enjoyable to read. The Magazine
helps to keep us from getting lonely and depressed.
Virlee Baker, Butzbacli, West Germany
The article "Keys to Child Guidance" in the July Magazine seems so helpful to wives
and mothers and I would like to see other similar articles.
Beverly Robinson, Soda Springs, Idaho
I thank you very much for the Magazines. There are many good things to learn from
them. They are a part of our living. Harriet Fish, Portland, Oregon
Hare in Scotland we enjoy the Magazine— all the lovely stories, poems, pictures, lessons,
and particularly the editorials. Many times I find that the editorials seem to be written
especially for me. I have had the privilege of going to the temple and being sealed
to my husband, having also done some work for my kindred dead. Now it is up to
me to build for a better and sweeter life. I enjoy my work as Relief Society secretarytreasurer
and am also working in Primary.
Mary Graham, Overton Mains, Kirkcaldy, Fife, Scotland
I take this opportunity to express my enjoyment of The Relief Society Magazine.
The subscription was a gift from my mother and I really needed the uplifting stories
and spiritual lessons. It is a perfect gift. JoAnn Meadows, San Antonio, Puerto Rico
What a wonderful Magazine! When it arrives my wife gets nothing done until she
has gone through it. Also, I enjoy the Magazine very much. I have other reading
material but would rather read the Magazine. Paul L. Hardy, Provo, Utah
I would like to thank you for publishing such a wonderful Magazine, but more especially
wI ant to thank the Logan Square Relief Society in Chicago for sending me this
great Magazine. I am a missionary in the extreme northern outpost of the Western
Canadian Mission. Every time I receive a new issue I read it from cover to cover before
I lend it to our investigators. I am thrilled with the wonderful stories in the Magazine,
and our investigators enjoy them also. Elder Bob Miller, High Level, Alberta, Canada
Only those who live so far away from the center of the Church can know the great
hunger and thirst for the spiritual food that comes to us each month in the Magazine.
It is truly a feast for us, and we thank you from the bottom of our hearts for the care
and the love that you put into this beautiful Magazine. Though English is our mother
tongue, we teach the lessons in Spanish and appreciate both issues so much. It
would be almost impossible to have our Relief Society functioning here without both
copies. Helen Q. Milligan, President of Relief Society
Colomho-Venezolana Mission, Merida, Venezuela
It is a blessing for me to have the Magazine, for usually I am a long way from our
home ward. We move so often— so I especially enjoy the Magazine and all the Relief
Society organizations I visit, for I never feel alone or as a stranger.
Leah Hancock Standiford, Taylor, Arizona

The Relief SOCICkLY Magazine volume 56 October 1969 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 724 732 733 739 748 Testimony Hugh B. Brown Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed General SecretaryTreasurer New Members Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Song Contest Announcement 1969 General Board Members Released Fiction 741 763 The Princess Part Lael J. Littke Heart Room for Home—Chapter 5 Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 722 745 746 769 800 From Near and Far Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Editorial—What Shall the Harvest Be? Louise W. Madsen Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 751 752 756 758 760 762 Thoughts on College Beginnings Marcella H. Morley Casserole Cookery Edythe K. Watson Black Walnut Gathering Pauline J. Jensen Make Your Own Baby's Book Grace Diane Jessen Granny Nancy D. F. Tuddenham Hobby Feature—Mary R. F. Burnett and Eva E. H. Gledhill Lesson Department 777 = Spiritual Living—Joseph Smith Evaluated Roy W. Doxey 783 Visiting Teacher Message—Labor for That Which Perisheth Not Alice Colton Smith 784 Homemaking—''She Considereth a Field and Buyeth it: With the Fruit of Her Hands She Planteth a Vineyard.'' Celestia J. Taylor 786 Social Relations—Work—a Road to Personal Fulfillment Alberta H. Christensen 792 Cultural Refinement—The Problem of Communication Robert K. Thomas Poetry Autumn Season, Christie Lund Coles 721; With These Hands, Mary Jo McEwan 731; Autumn Reminds Me..., Nola Marilyn Hansen 738; Patterns, Vesta N. Fairbairn 744; Nauvoo, Sadie O. Clark 749; Home Again, Alta L. Turner 750; Seedtime and Harvest, Zara Sabin 755, Autumn, Ruth G. Rothe 757; Tapestry of Deeds, Margaret B. Shomaker 768; Ingeniously Adept, Remelda Gibson 791, Bristlecone Pine, Joanna Brown 797. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only, The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

728 G President Hugh B. Brown Of the First Presidency | ~~ Bye Ry = ie" a a @ When one gives evidence as a witness in court, he may either make a solemn declaration or affirmation, or give evidence under oath. In the latter case, if he does not tell the truth he may be charged with perjury. When one bears testimony to the truth of the gospel he also makes a solemn declaration or affirmation, but the source of his knowledge is not the same as that upon which he depends as a witness in court. It may have little or nothing to do with the five senses. In fact, a real testimony of the gospel, a testimony that God is real and personal and that Jesus of Nazareth is his Son, results from revelation and is a serious and sacred matter. In a court of law, hearsay, or secondhand evidence is not admissable regardless of the integrity of the witness submitting it. He must confine his evidence to what he personally knows to be true. While all members of the Church should respect, support, and heed the teachings of the Authorities of the Church, no one should accept a statement and base his testimony upon it, no matter who makes it, until he _ has, under mature examination, found it to be true and worth- 724 ee a " w > Cor 3e wy 7) © gy ns ae er [6 ae ee ee ee eee ( (2 ( (é w while; then his logical deductions may be confirmed by the spirit of revelation to his spirit because real conversion must come from within. By the same token, members of the Church should not become disillusioned and throw the Church overboard because they have not satisfied themselves concerning' every principle of the gospel. All blessings from God come as a result of obedience to the laws upon which they are predicated. This rule, or law, applies to the acquisition of a testimony of the gospel or any related subject. Any accountable person can gain a testimony if he will obey the laws upon which the receipt of such knowledge is predicated. But here, as elsewhere, there are certain prerequisites, which may be listed roughly as follows: 1. The seeker must desire to know the truth of the gospel or whatever is involved in his quest. 2. He must study and learn everything possible with relation to the matter involved. In John 5:39 we read: "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life." And we are directed in the Doctrine and Covenants 1:37 to "Search these commandments." 3. The applicant must practice the principles and truths which he learns and bring his life into harmony with them. The Savior said: '""My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." (John 7:16, 17.) 4. He must constantly pray to the Father and exercise faith that the truth will be manifested by revelation through the Holy Ghost. Moroni tells us that by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. (Moroni 10:3-5.) When the Apostle Paul answered Christ's question as to who he, the Savior, was, he had the spirit of revelation, and Jesus said to him: "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 16:17.) This bears out the claim that direct and personal revelation is available to men if they will learn the necessary prerequisites and conform their lives thereto. In speaking or writing to memTestimony bers of the Relief Society one is addressing. The builders of the homes of our communities and of the Church. Every home has a spirit and that spirit will depend in large measure upon the testimony which the mother has of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. This emphasizes the importance of her gaining a testimony and under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit guide and direct the affairs of the home and the lives of her children, having in mind always the relationship which exists between the Lord and his children. In other words, the mother must have great faith—faith in God, faith in herself and in her companion, and faith in the ultimate triumph of righteousness —a faith which ventures beyond knowledge and by which she may be able to meet the tests of practical life and_ religious experience. She will be guided by intellectual as well as moral imperatives. A mother who has a testimony will, therefore, live a righteous life—one which the children can emulate with safety; the kind of life which is inspired and directed by the Holy Ghost, whose companionship she will constantly seek. Of course the knowledge which the mother gains in her search for a testimony will be most helpful in her presiding over her home. But that knowledge must be observed and _ incorporated into the daily life of those concerned. He who knows the precepts and neglects to obey them is like one who lights a candle in the darkness and then closes his eyes. 75 October 1969 A house is not a home unless it contains food and fire for the mind and spirit as well as for the body. In order to supply that food and fire the maker of the home must have the ingredients which include and depend upon the strength of the testimony of both father and mother. The Apostle Peter gave us a list of virtues in II Peter 1: 5-7: And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; And to virtue knowledge; and to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; and to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. Alma _ bears follows: testimony as And this is not all. Do ye not suppose that I know of these things myself? Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that these things whereof I have spoken are true. And how do ye suppose that I know of their surety? Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God. Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days that I might know these things of myself. And now I do know of myself that they are true; for the Lord God hath made them manifest unto me by his Holy Spirit; and this is the spirit of revelation which is in me. (Alma 5:45-46.) In this age when there are so many broken homes, it is about time to stop building mere houses and begin rebuilding broken homes, and laying foundations upon which future enduring homes may be established. When grandfather and grandmother took each other for better or for worse, when things got worse, as they usually did, the two of them worked it out for the better. Their marriage lasted sixty years or longer be- 726 cause they knew the darkest hour would be only sixty minutes long. Too many today enter marriage with the door of escape wide open and that door leads to the divorce court. The extended freedom which is enjoyed today requires a stabilizing self-control and _ constancy just as branches demand roots. In this complicated age of restlessness and speed we are all oppressed at times with tension and strain. Tension needs tenacity, and _ strain requires steadfastness. A testimony of the gospel supplies _ spiritual underpinning without which human life leads but to shipwreck. The most effective and lasting impressions of life are made in the home where it is presided over by parents who know and bear testimony that God is real and personal, that Jesus is the Christ and that the gospel has been restored. Testimony is like an arrow shot from a long bow. The force of it depends upon the strength of the hand that draws it. (Bacon.) The Apostle Paul, writing to the Hebrew saints, said: For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. (Hebrews 4:2.) It was said of the Master, when he returned from Nazareth, that he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief. All the hopes, the horizons, the motives that have been given to men depend upon faith in God.: Our convictions are more important than our lives, if those convictions result from revealed testimonies. We need the type of courage, a product of faith, which will enable us to turn triumphantly toward the east at nightfall, with the calm assurance that dawn will surely follow dusk. We must regain and retain that rugged self-confident faith of our pioneer fathers. A torch is given to each of us as we seek to see the road ahead that we might light the lamps of others. This excerpt from the pen of one whose name I do not know is an appeal to all to keep the light of their faith still shining. THE LIGHT OF FAITH When the dark days come and the clouds grow gray All men must brave them as best they may: With never too much repining; And bravest is he, when the shadows fall, Who sees in the gloom of his darkened hall The light of his faith still shining. All great enterprise begins with and takes its first forward step in faith. Our job must be done with faith in the future, because very little of the fruit of one's work shows above the ground during a lifetime. We constantly need the warmth and glow and power of faith which will support and be supported by our testimonies of the gospel. Tennyson said: Faith sees the best that glimmers through the worst; she feels the sun is hid but for a night; she spies the summer through the winter bud; she tastes the fruit before the blossoms fall; she hears the lark within the songless egg; she finds the fountain where they wail "mirage!"' Testimony And again: Think not the faith by which the just shall live is a dead creed, a map correct of heaven. Far less a feeling fond and fugitive, a thoughtless gift withdrawn as soon as given. It is an affirmation and an act that bids eternal truth to present fact. Faith is holding reasonable convictions in realms beyond the reach of final demonstration and thrusting out one's life upon those convictions as though they were really true. A testimony of the gospel develops and sustains such faith. Robert Louis Stevenson said: "T believe in the ultimate decency of things and if I woke in hell I should still believe in it." There are plenty of people to do the possible. You can _ hire them at one hundred dollars a month. The prizes are for those who perform the impossible. If the thing can be done, experience and skill can do it—if it cannot be done, only faith can do it. Both science and religion rely on faith to inspire each forward step. All divine help depends on the presence of man's faith. Words like these were continually on the lips of the Savior: Be of good comfort, thy faith hath made thee whole. According to your faith be done unto thee as thou wilt. Thy faith hath saved thee. Man's life interpreted and motivated by religious faith is glorious, but shorn of faith's interpretation, life loses its highest meaning and its noblest hopes. Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith let us to the end dare to do our duty. (Abraham Lincoln) 727 October 1969 Whether on the first of January or on the thirty-first of December, faith is a good word to end on. (Robert Louis Stevenson) Poetry is faith, faith that the converging sides of the pyramid slope to a summit whether we can see it or not. (Ralph Waldo Emerson) With all our science we must face each day as Paul faced his journey to Rome, "not knowing the things that shall befall me there." Paul's continuing and sustaining faith was supported and buttressed by his inspiring testimony. Every member of the Relief Society, every mother in Israel, needs and may obtain a testimony that God lives and that she is a member of a _ living Church, a_ growing, forwardlooking Church, where new ideas and new ways of doing things predominate their lives and leave no room for littleness of living nor for the paralysis of skeptical doubts in thinking. The testimony of Peter is inspiring as he responds to Christ's question "... Whom say ye that I am?" He said, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." This testimony welled up from an overflowing heart, made humble by his recent denial and made more glorious by his own indomitable spirit. It is this stirring desire to do the will of our Father which caused the pioneers to endure the contumely and reproach of their fellow men and associate themselves voluntarily with the people denominated Latter-day Saints" or Mormons. The Savior was pleased with Peter's testimony which was revealed to him, not by flesh and blood, but by our Heavenly 728 Father and was evidence of his love and of his unfolding mind as he comprehended the gospel plan. We also pass -through valleys of weakness and _ hills of doubt as we attempt to climb the mountains of faith and get a testimony of truth. An abiding and oft repeated testimony of the truth of the gospel, borne by the mothers in the home, is a bulwark not alone to them personally but to their families and to all whose lives they touch. Because of the testimonies of the officers and members of the _ Relief Society that God is real and personal and their understanding of the relationship of God and man, this world-wide women's organization adopted charity (love) as a slogan. (See 1 Cor. 13.) Said Frank Crane: Conventional charity drops pennies in the beggar's cup, carries bread to the starving, distributes clothing to the naked; real charity, which is another name for love, sets about removing the conditions that make beggary, starvation, and nakedness. Conventional charity plays ''Lady Bountiful;" love tries to establish such laws as shall give employment to all so that they need no bounty. Conventional charity piously accepts things as they are, and helps the unfortunate; active love goes to the legislature and changes things. Charity may swat the fly; love impels us to remove the dung-heaps that breed flies. Charity gives quinine in the malarial tropics; love drains the swamps. Charity sendssurgeons and ambulances and trained nurses to the war; brotherly love struggles to secure that internationalism that will prevent war. Charity assumes evil institutions and customs to be a part of Divine Providence, and tearfully works away at taking care of the wreckage; love regards injustice everywhere, custom-buttressed and re- spectable or not, as the work of the devil, and vigorously attacks it. The best part of the human race does not want help, nor favor, nor charity; it wants a fair chance and a square deal. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow said: The little I have seen of the world teaches me to look upon the errors of others in sorrow, not in anger. When I take the history of one poor heart that has sinned and suffered, and think of the struggles and temptations it has passed through, the brief pulsations of joy, the feverish inquietude of hope and _ fear, the pressure of want, the desertion of friends, I would fain leave the erring soul of my fellow man with him from whose hands it came. Some of us have sometimes, when in presiding positions in the Church, executive positions in business, while practicing law, or commanding men in the army, found it necessary to hold trials, make investigations, and pass judgments on our fellow men. Often in such cases when associates or counselors have insisted on microscopic examination of the lives and faults of the accused, I, myself, have been deterred from hasty judgment by imagining a slide film of my own life had been slipped beneath the glass. How often at such times has the "beam" eclipsed the "mote" and the "first stone" been withheld because I could not qualify to cast it. S. E. Kiser imagined that one day in paradise two angels, beaming, strolled along the amber walk that hes beside the streets of gold. They met and gazed into each other's eyes, then dropped their harps, amazed, and stood in mute surprise. Testimony And other angels came, and as they lingered near, heard both exclaim at once, "Say, how did you get here?" Dr. Benjamin Johnson adds, "God, himself, sir, does not propose to judge man until the end of his days, why should we?" And Dante queries, "Oh, mortal men, be wary how you judge." WATCH YOURSELF GO BY Just stand aside and watch yourself go by; Think of yourself as 'he' instead of "T". Note closely, as inother men you note, The bag-kneed trousers and the seedy coat. Pick flaws; find fault; forget the man is you, And strive to make your estimate ring true. Confront yourself and look you in the eye, Just stand aside and watch yourself go by. And then, with eyes unveiled to what you loath— To. Sins that with sweet charity you clothe— Back to your self-walled tenement you'll go With tolerance for all who dwell below. The faults of others then will dwarf and shrink. Love's chain grows stronger by one mighty hnk— When you with "he" as substitute for "y" Have stood aside and watched yourself go by. Relief Society workers should be unwilling to choose between flaming fanaticism and_ sentimental surrender. Let personal conviction and generous tolerance meet and merge. The spirit of testimony makes one tolerant of the weaknesses and mistakes 729 October 1969 of others as it emphasizes the brotherhood of man. A book on tolerance by Phillips Brooks, mentions six brands of tolerance: First, the tolerance of pure indifference. We may be tolerant because we do not care, because the issue at stake does not concern us. Second, the tolerance of policy. We may be tolerant because we think we would lose more than we gain by fighting the man or the measure. Third, the tolerance of helplessness. We may be tolerant because we realize that the enemy holds the field and that resistance will be futile. Fourth, the tolerance of pure respect for man. We may be tolerant because we respect even a man's right to think wrong, because we agree with Voltaire when he wrote to Helvétius, "I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say 1 Fifth, the tolerance of spiritual sympathy. We may be tolerant because we feel a spiritual comradeship with the man whose purpose is fine even if his proposition is false. Sixth, the tolerance of an enlarged view of truth. We may be tolerant because we have come to realize that truth is larger than any one man's concept of it, even if we are the one man in question. The first three kinds of tolerance are mean; the last three are magnificent. "True tolerance," says Brooks, "consists in the love of truth and the love of man, each brought to its perfection and living in perfect harmony with one another." But this is no easy achievement. In this age of selfishness and greed, of birth control and barrenness, of easy divorce and broken homes and juvenile delinquency, in this age of cheap amusements, idleness and lack of discipline, it is well to search for basic values, to call attention to the fact that the home is 730 the nation's most fundamental institution and that mothers are the first professors in that character building school. Let us teach the young women of the land that womanhood is glorified by motherhood. A woman who has a testimony of the gospel will meet the demands of home building with poise and dignity. Motherhood is the _inscription on the gate through which the spirits pass to enter the realm of mortal men, and it will be woman's password for admittance into the highest realms of glory. The Son of God hallowed and glorified that inscription when he bowed through that gate and called a mortal woman, "Mother." How important it is that every mother have a testimony of him and cooperate with him in the continuing work of redemption. President McKay said: Motherhood is the one thing in all the world which most truly exemplifies the God-given virtues of creating and sacrificing. Though it carries the woman close to the brink of death, motherhood also leads her into the very realm of the fountains of life and makes her co-partner with the Creator in bestowing upon eternal spirits mortal life. Artists may make new visions real; poets express thoughts never known before or dress old ones in a more becoming garb; engineers may transform deserts into bounteous fields and fill them with prosperous towns and thriving villages; scientists may discover new elements, and by various combinations thereof create means contributive either to progress or destruction—all these are in a measure revealers of unknown things: but the mother who, in compliance with eternal law, brings into the world an immortal spirit occupies first rank in the realm of creation. (Gospel Ideals, page 656.) All who have received a testimony of the gospel through revelation are authorized, commissioned—required—to teach the gospel under the inspiration of that spirit through which it came. I quote and commend the appeal made by Sister Zina Y. C. Brown in her prose poem, "Woman Exalted:" Daughters of Zion, ye mothers of men, hold fast these gifts of thy calling great, Yesterday is gone, WITH THESE HANDS The canvas of my day is yet empty. And the pallet is clean. My beloveds still slumber— And God awaits my prayer. | offer my hands this day unto their Creator, To fashion a thing of beauty From these virgin hours awaiting color and form. Strike away the temptation to blotch and blurr, Testimony Lest they be lost—these priceless pearls of purity and purpose holy. Know ye not that thy place is at the side, and not below, This companion to whom thou art given of the Lord? Thou woman exalted, thou first to forgive and last to forsake, Thou pniestess, queen, Thank thy God who made thee thus, That thou was born A woman. That the canvas may be vibrant and clean With the work of loving hands. Hands that will comfort, protect and perpetuate. Hands that will discipline and adhere, That the work may form in order and beauty. Hands that will build, give, and guide, Strengthening each fiber of importance, And shunning the rest. When the canvas is completed In detail and deed, May | hopefully seek my Lord again. Then, in humility and with thankfulness, May | ask for his refreshment And begin anew with these hands he has given me. —Mary Jo McEwan 731 fiayoila R. Miltenberger Appointed General reasurer The General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announce the appointment of Mayola Rogers Miltenberger as General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society. Sister Miltenberger has been serving as acting SecretaryTreasurer since June of 1969. Sister Miltenberger brings to this office devotion to the gospel and Relief Society in addition to her fine training and experience. She possesses grace and dignity and endears herself to those with whom she works. She is capable in meeting the requirements of any assignment given her, and finds joy in her work. Sister Miltenberger was named to the General Board in October of 1968. Prior to her appointment as acting Secretary-Treasurer she had rendered valuable service in the field of social service. She was no stranger to Relief Society at the time of her appointment to the Board, for she had served as director of the Relief Society Social Service Program for Arizona. Sister Miltenberger is the daughter of Marion and Leanora Smith Rogers. She was married in 1937 to the late Edwin John Miltenberger. Sister Miltenberger attended Brigham Young University and was graduated from the University of Arizona. She obtained her Master's degree in social work from Tulane University, where she also served as a field instructor. She is a member of the Academy of Social Workers, and a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers. Sister Miltenberger has served as a ward and branch Relief Society president, as MIA president, and as a Sunday School teacher. She is always willing to bear testimony as to the truthfulness of the gospel, and is unselfish in her devotion of time and energy to the work of our Heavenly Father. In her new appointment, she has the love and confidence of the General Presidency and her associates on the General Board. Her service will be a blessing to the sisters and to Relief Society organizations throughout the world. 732 New Members Appointed to The General Board of Relief Society Amy Young Valentine, Provo Thirteenth Ward, East Provo Stake, Utah, is a daughter of Cecile Virginia Skousen and W. Ernest Young. She was with her parents in Argentina for three years while her father was president of the mission. In 1952 her husband Lee B. Valentine was called to Argentina to be mission president. Sister Valentine served as the Relief Society supervisor. A graduate of Brigham Young University, Sister Valentine has been active in education and community affairs and has been a teacher er of music and languages. She now teaches Spanish at Brigham Young University and served as president of BYU 7th Stake Relief Society at the time of her call. Sister Valentine, now a widow, has four children: Mrs. Colin L. Corbin (Amy Lee); Robert Y. (married to Shauna Burgon); Christina Ruth, working on a Master's Degree at BYU, and Angela, a high school student. There are two grandchildren. Marian Louise Richards Boyer, Monument Park Ward, Monument Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Ina Ashton and Elder LeGrand Richards. She is the wife of Harold R. Boyer and mother of five children: three married daughters, Mrs. O. Don Ostler (Barbara), Mrs. J. Field- _ Ing Nelson (Carolyn), Mrs. John S. McMaster (Janet); one married son, Roger (married to Sara Stohl), and Richard, who is a student at the University of Utah. There are seventeen grandchildren. She has served in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church and was Relief Society stake aa of ican Park at the time of her call to the General Board. She is skilled in homemaking arts and many crafts—knitting, sewing, candle making, home decorating, and many types of needlecraft. Sister Boyer is a hard worker and inspirational leader, well qualified for her new responsibilities. 733 October 1969 Marjorie Merrill Reeve, Kansas City First Ward, Kansas City Stake, Missouri, is a daughter of Idetta Ellsworth and Nathan D. Merrill. Her husband is Wayne L. Reeve. Sister Reeve is a graduate of Brigham Young University and has served in several positions of leadership in Seminary, and in the auxiliaries. Her devotion to Relief Society has made her an outstanding leader as teacher and ward president. For the last eight | years she has served as Relief Society stake president of Kan- } sasCity Stake. Shehasendeavored ™™™: —_ to teach her children the basic pribiaiplis of Latter-day Saint family living. She has encouraged her sons in their scholastic and athletic interests and her daughters in music. The Reeves have two married daughters, Mrs. David Wade (Kathryn), Mrs. Lynn Southam (Lee Ann); a son Dan on a mission in Japan; two sons, Gerry and Craig and a daughter Merrilee at home. Ada Jones Jones, ChandlerSecond 7 Ward, Mesa Stake, Arizona, is ™ a daughter of Sarah Jane Hurst = Jones and John Barker Jones. Her parents were colonizers in 9) Mexico and Virden, New Mexico. § Her husband is Archie Lavar Jones. They have six children— | two married daughters, Mrs. Norman H. Jackson (Ada Ruth) and Mrs. Charles Carpenter (Sherilyn); three sons: Keith L., D. Lynn, and Gordon W.; and a daughter Kathleen who is a student at BYU. There are four grandchildren. Sister Jones is a graduate of Gila Junior College and attended New Mexico State Teachers College. She has held teaching and executive positions in the auxiliaries. She has been a ward Relief Society president and was president of Mesa Stake Relief Society at the time of her appointment to the General Board. Devoted to her home and family, Sister Jones has encouraged her children in Church activities and educational pursuits. 734 Helen Gygi Lach, Monument Park Eleventh Ward, Monument Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Liesetta Reidelbauch and Rudolph Gygi. Her husband is John Edward Lach. They have a son, David L. (married to Kathryn Lloyd), and two daughters, Mrs. Stephen C. Oswald (Bonnie) and Kathleen. Sister Lach has served in several capacities in the Church auxiliary organizations. She served in the ward Relief Society presidency in two different wards and has been an outstanding sewing instructor, quilting chairman, and homemaking leader. She is especially skillful in all the homemaking arts and crafts, including interior design and decorating. She has imparted her gifts and talents in sewing, needlecraft, doll making, designing gifts and articles for bazaars to many Relief Society women, who, in turn, have beautified their homes and served Relief Society. Sister Lach was a member of the Tabernacle Choir for eleven years. Orlene Jones Poulsen, Monument Park Third Ward, Monument Park West Stake, is a daughter of Louie Orlene Thomas and V. Ashton Jones, and was born in Cedar City, Utah. Her husband is George Poulsen Jr. They have four daughters, Lou Ellen and Lana Rae attending © the University of Utah, Rosalie ~ and Sharon. Sister Poulsen is a © graduate of the University of 7 Utah and has been a school- © teacher. Her Church work has © included teaching in the auxihiaries. She has been a class === leader in spiritual living, cultural refinement, and social relations, as well as serving in Relief Society while her husband was Hawaiian Mission president. She was serving as Relief Society president of Monument Park West Stake at the time of her call to the General Board. She is international president of Lamba Delta Sigma (the Church organization for women missionaries). Her special interests are her home and family, and she enjoys homemaking, sewing, reading, and music. 735 October 1969 Aline Rawson Pettit, Monument Park Seventh Ward, Monument Park West Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, was born in Provo, Utah, a daughter of Lydia Knudsen and William K. Rawson. Her husband is Lynn A. Pettit, and they have four children, Mrs. Ole Dunn (Kathleen), Mrs. Robert Bohn (Peggyanne), Lynn A., recently returned from the Southwest Indian Mission, and Marilyn. Sister Pettit is a graduate of the University of California, and has studied three years at the University of Utah as a graduate student. She is a professional librarian and has worked in several libraries. She is a former member of the General Board of the Primary Association, and has served as a cultural refinement class leader in two stakes and also in Libya, North Africa, for the wives of Air Force personnel at Wheelrus. Sister Pettit has been active in the field of literature, teaching adult education classes. Johna Mary de St. Jeor, Holladay Eighth Ward, Holladay Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Melva Adamson and Wallace Bramwell de St. Jeor. She is a graduate of Brigham Young University and_ has studied in the graduate schools at the University of Mexico and the University of Utah. She has been stake speech director in San Bernardino Stake, attendance secretary in Mexico City Stake, and mission MIA board member in Montevideo, Uruguay. She served as Relief Society coordinator and _ interpreter in Uruguay. She has been employed as an airlines reservations agent and as a social worker. Her special interests are sewing and many different homemaking and decorating crafts. She is widely traveled and speaks and reads several languages and is interested in music and art. She has enjoyed working with the Indian people and other peoples of Mexico and South America. She is a teacher of history at the present time. 736 Beverly Jensen Pond, Monument Park Thirteenth Ward, Monument Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Edith A. Hoagland and David Jensen. Her husband is Farrel Smith Pond, and they have five children: one married daughter, Mrs. Samuel E. Burggraaf (Farelyn), and returned missionary son Nicholas, and three other sons, Marden, Kevin, and Talmage. There are two grandchildren. Sister Pond attended the University of Utah © and graduated from the McCune ©' aa School of Music. She has ened as organist and chorister in all the ward auxiliary organizations, and has been a stake Relief Society chorister and ward president. She is a professional piano teacher and a charter member of the Utah Teachers National Association, accredited with the Music Teachers National Association. She is a devoted homemaker and extends her many gifts and talents to her family, her Church, and the community. Inez Tolman Waldron, North Logan Second Ward, East Cache Stake, Utah, was born in Murtaugh, Idaho, a daughter of Emerett Bates Tolman and J. I. Tolman. She has a teaching certificate from Utah State University. Her husband is Eldred Logan Waldron, and they have six children: John, who is completing the requirements for his Master's Degree at Utah State University; Marcia, Anita, Eileen, Charles, and Barbara. In addition to teaching and being a chorister and music director in the auxiliaries, Sister Waldron has served as Relief Society supervisor in the Hawaiian Mission and as president of Waikiki Ward Relief Society. She has been Singing Mothers director in Mount Logan Stake and director of a ward choir. Sister Waldron's special interests are her family, homemaking, music, and promoting an interest in and appreciation for the fine arts in her community and at the Utah State University. 737 October 1969 Anna Jean Bullock Skidmore, of the Twentieth Ward, East Cache Stake, Logan, Utah, is a daughter of Nora Poulton and James A. Bullock. She is the wife of Dr. Charles J. Skidmore. There are five children, three girls, Norma Jean, Sally, and Jill, and two boys, Chad and Jon. Sister Skidmore is a graduate of Brigham Young University and has her MFA degree in choral music from Utah State, where she is a vocal instructor part time. She also teaches private students in vocal and piano music and has presented musical Boca de Re reviews. She is a member of the Utah State University Chorale. She has been a Singing Mothers director, a ward chorister, and has served as a teacher and director of music in the auxiliaries. She finds enjoyment in cooking, sewing, and crafts and is interested, also, in community service. AUTUMN REMINDS ME. Of rains washing the earth of dust to make ready her winter sleep. And mothers washing the summer's play from the necks of squirming children. Of lasting autumn flowers bursting with the giving of themselves Into full blooms of perfection, bronzed copper and scented gold. Of cold cement sidewalks F warmed by bright falling leaves, Capped with a cloudless violet sky too deep for summer's frivolity. Of the fresh crispness of young love innocent of the hardships ahead, / But filled with the courage of youth and trust in the love of God. —Nola Marilyn Hansen Relief Society ({ ) VY ) CO NCEeSCT / —— — e = a a oo General Announcement The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the second contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music) to be conducted annually. The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church. The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest (see below). Name of Contest This contest is to be known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST. Dates This year's contest (1969-70) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1970. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1970. Prizes Prizes will be awarded as follows: First Prize $100 Second Prize $ 75 If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty per cent to the composer and forty per cent to the author. Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board and public announcement of the awards will be made in the June 1970, issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted. Rules 1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. Duplicate copies of all submissions should be retained by the contestants to insure against loss. 3. The composition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks or signature upon it (them). Address to: SONG CONTEST Relief Society. Building 76 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 739 October 1969 4. It will not be possible for the General Board to correspond with the contestants regarding individual works. 5. No nom de plumes are to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the "work"' certifying: a. The composer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The composition is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or another person with view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 7. Contestants should submit a biography of 150 words, or less, giving essential data regarding themselves and citizenship (for copyright purposes). 8. The music should be unpublished. The Relief Society reserves the right to publish the same and assign the copyright to a publisher on a royalty basis. The royalty will be divided on a fifty-fifty basis between the composer and the Relief Society for two years after publication. Thereafter, the Relief Society will waive its royalty and the fifty per cent royalty shall accrue to the composer. Such royalty shall be ten per cent of the marked selling price. If an author collaborates with a composer a division of the royalties will be made agreeable to both of them. 9. The songs most preferred will express spiritual values. The texts need not be original but must not be subject to copyright. Texts most preferred will sing with natural flow—with a happy placement of vowels for ease of delivery. Tricky effects should be avoided. 10. Manuscripts should be written in ink. Manuscript paper may vary to suit the composer. Generally the size to be preferred is octavo or 9" by 12". 11. Music is to be submitted in clearly written manuscript, in SSA (first soprano, second soprano, and alto) setting. Occasional two or four parts may be used for special effects, as may unison. The accompaniment should be suitable for piano or organ. Each of three parts should be written on separate staves as is generally the case in octavo publication. The writing style and complexity should approximate the type of selections that have been sung by the Singing Mothers at Relief Society General Conferences. Highly contrapuntal and dissonant musical settings are generally too difficult and, except for special effects and contrast, should be avoided. Eloquent phrasing will be considered highly desirable. 12. The recommended performance length is approximately three to five minutes. 13. The winning works will be published and programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses. 14. The winning of one Relief Society Song Contest in no way prohibits the contestant from entering and winning another contest in another year, but a contestant who received first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Ao F Judges All manuscripts will be reviewed by a competant team of judges composed as follows: A representative of the publishing business, a member of the Relief Society General Board Music Committee, two competent directors of choruses, and a recognized composer. 740 Lael J. Littke @ Mama said I shouldn't really count too strongly on being the fairy princess in our fourth grade spring operetta, but I knew I would get the part. After all, hadn't I prayed for it with all the faith in my nine-year-old heart? Just because I had straight brown hair and freckles wasn't any reason why I couldn't be the princess, was it? Mama didn't say anything about the Straight hair and freckles, of course, but she did remind me gently that there were eleven other girls in my class who would like to be the princess, but I knew they all expected Lauramae Van Skiver to get the part. Ever since we had all been in the first grade, she had always been the princess. Lauramae didn't know how to spell Mississippi, but no one cared, least of all ye J 4 <4 '» A * i y. ESi ( | Lauramae. She had fat blond Sausage curls and blue eyes shaded by long, curly black | lashes. She giggled a lot, but she took dancing lessons and could sing like an angel. It would take practically a miracle for me to get the part when Lauramae was around, but miracles had happened before, hadn't they? My Sunday School teacher said they had when a person's faith was strong enough. The fairy princess got to wear a crown anda white costume with a fluffy skirt all spangled with sequins. She was to carry a glittering wand which, when she waved it, would bring all the flowers to life. Playing that part seemed to me to be the most beautiful thing that could happen in a young girl's life, especially one who had read every book of 741 October 1969 fairy tales in the school library. For months I had worked to get the best grades in our class hoping that Miss Ellerbee would take that into consideration when she assigned the parts. And then, of course, there was the praying. Heavenly Father couldn't possibly ignore a small person who had such a big want that for weeks she had washed dishes and done her piano practicing without being prompted, and who didn't hit her brother even when he took her doll buggy and used it to mix mud in for a fort he was building. _ On the day Miss Ellerbee assigned the parts I sat with my eyes closed and my _ hands clasped, knowing she would say, "Jenny Bennett will be our princess," and then I would give the little squeal of surprise I had been practicing. But what Miss Ellerbee said was "The part of the fairy princess will be played by Lauramae Van Skiver." Lauramae didn't even scream with pleasure as any other girl in the class would have done. She had known all along she would be the fairy princess. The squeal I had prepared died in my throat and almost choked me. I wished that it had. What good was it living in a world where people who didn't even care got the best things and where your most fervent prayers went unanswered? I felt betrayed. Next time I went to Sunday School, I thought, I would tell my teacher a thing or two. No, on second thought I wouldn't, because I wasn't going to go any more. Feeling dismally wicked, I half listened as Miss Ellerbee 742 went on to read the rest of the parts. "Daffodil will be played by Ruby Raymond." I waited, not eagerly any more but still with a little curiosity for my name to be called. After all, the flowers had pretty costumes, too, although not as_ beautiful as the fairy princess. It would be nice to be the rose. "Rose," said Miss Ellerbee, "will be played by Merna Bell. Freddy Hopkins will play the part of Spider." She went on down through the list of flowers, bugs, and birds until she came to the last part. "The part of Toad will be played by Jenny Bennett." I hadn't even thought about being the toad. It was beyond consideration. I hardly heard what else Miss Ellerbee said—something about the toad being just about the most important part in the play since it was the toad who hopped around protecting the lovely flowers from the bugs and birds, and it was the toad to whom the fairy princess said at the end, "Despite your homely appearance, oh, Toad, you have a truly beautiful spirit." I didn't care what Miss Ellerbee said. If you were a toad, who would notice how beautiful your spirit was? On the school bus going home Lauramae Van Skiver sat. By me. "I wish I could be a toad sometime," she said. I knew she was just being nice. Lauramae was always nice. That's why everyone liked her. I didn't like her. I didn't like her at all, with her fat curls and long lashes and nice ways. "You'd make a terrible toad," I said. "Maybe I would," she said, "but it would be fun to try. I always have to be the princess." It just wasn't fair. I wanted to cry right there on the bus, but I managed to wait until it stopped to let my two brothers and me off. Instead of going into the house, I crawled into a clump of lilac bushes and wept. I wished that a bolt of lightning would hit me, and then when I was all fixed up in a white dress in my coffin people would say, "Poor little thing. See how pretty she looks—not like a toad ° at all." I was so involved with my fantasy, which made me. Weep even harder, that I scarcely noticed Mama crawling under the lilacs beside me. "Tom told me you went in here," she said. "I thought maybe something was wrong." "Il have to be the toad," I blurted, fresh tears flooding my face. Mama patted my back and rubbed my head until I stopped bawling. "I wanted so much to be the princess," I sobbed. "And Lauramae would rather be the toad. She really would, Mama." Mama thought about it. "Maybe I could speak to Miss Ellerbee," she said. "Oh, Mama," I cried hopefully, "would you? Please would you?" "Let's think about it," Mama said. "What does the princess do?" "Well, I said, rubbing my nose with my forearm, "she sings five songs all by herself." The Princess Part "You could do that," Mama said. "T really can't sing very well," I said. "I don't know whether I'd dare even if I could." "We could take care of that," Mama said. "Maybe Lauramae could sing backstage and you could just move your mouth." "That would work fine," I agreed. "But what about the dancing? I can't dance." "You could learn some steps." "Or maybe Lauramae could be a dancing toad," I suggested. Mama nodded. "I don't see why not." "Oh, Mama," I said, "the princess gets to wear the prettiest costume you ever saw. It's all spangled and it's got a little short fluffy skirt like a ballet dancer wears." I looked down at my long thin legs with the knobby knees. Mama looked, too. "We could make the _ skirt clear to the floor," she said gently. October 1969 I had never pictured the fairy princess in a full-length dress. "That wouldn't be quite as pretty, but we could put lots of spangles on it," I said. There was. Still wrong. "Mama," I said, "what about my hair? A princess should have curls." Mama laughed. "That's no problem. We'll get you a permanent." I remembered the last time I had a permanent. My hair had stuck straight out in eight inches of frizz. I couldn't imagine a fairy princess with a head of frizz. I looked down again at my knobby knees. "Mama," I said. I cleared my throat so I wouldn't start crying again. "Mama, I wouldn't make a good fairy princess at all. I'd be a mess." Mama was loyal. "You'd be sweet," she said. I shook my head. "I'd just look silly. P11 make a better toad." Mama smiled at me. "If someone has curls and can sing, it's easy to make the audience believe you're a fairy princess," she said, "but it takes much more real effort to be a_ believable toad." I thought about that. Sudsomething denly I didn't want to cry any more. "Maybe Lauramae really meant it when she said she'd like to be the toad," I mused. Mama nodded. "Maybe," she said, "but Miss Ellerbee thought you could do it better. You know, if you learn your part well and work very hard, you can make the toad the most interesting character in the whole show." "Will you help me?" I asked, and Mama _ nodded again. I crawled out of the lilacs and stood up, raising my face to the bright afternoon sunlight. "Tl be the best toad Miss Ellerbee ever saw," I said. "She'll be glad she gave me such a good part." Mama crawled out, too, and stood beside me, smiling down at me. "I just know she will," she said. "Let's go in now and plan your costume." "Let's make it orange with green and purple spots," I said. Oh, there was so much to do. And I would have to remember when I went to Sunday School on Sunday to tell my teacher that sometimes prayers were answered in a much different way than you expected them to be. In the meantime I must practice hopping and speaking in a croaking voice. Poor Lauramae, I thought. She never gets the fun parts. PATTERNS Windy Headland grasses— Sun-silvered blades and grains— Blow against an endless backdrop Of sky. 744 —Vesta N. Fairbairn Mrs. Mara K. Culp, twenty-seven, of Newport Beach, California, ja small blond native of Riga, Latvia, who has lived in America the last twelve years, won the twenty-third annual Powder Puff Derby, women's cross-country - air race, last July. She has two thousand flying hours to her credit and flew from San Diego to Washington in eleven hours and fiftyseven minutes. Mrs. Sharon Sites Adams, whose husband is a sailing instructor, has become the first woman to sail alone the six thousand miles across the Pacific Ocean (from Yokohama, Japan, to San Diego, California). During the 75-day crossing in a 3lfoot ketch, the 37-year-old housewife weathered severe gales, lost her rotator (which drags in the water and measures distance), to a shark and was becalmed for one week. Her radio transmitter became inoperative. Letitia Baldridge has been social secretary to Ambassador and Mrs. David Bruce in Paris, to Ambassador Clare Boothe Luce, and to President and Mrs. John F. Kennedy. She became the first woman executive in Tiffany's history, and is currently public relations consultant for Chicago's Merchandise Mart, and for Sears, Roebuck. She is married and is a mother. Mrs. Elaine Whitelaw, director of volunteer services for the National Foundation, said the Rubella vaccine to prevent German Measles, which was licensed in midJune, will soon be administered in the United States to children below ten years of age. Pregnant mothers with rubella have given birth to thousands of deformed children. Mothers will be protected if epidemics are not started by children, so the young will receive the first shots available. Ramona W. Cannon Jan Armstrong, Joan Aldrin, and Pat Collins, wives of the three astronauts of the Apollo XI Mission, and the spacemen's mothers: Mrs. Stephen Armstrong, Mrs. Edwin Eugene Aldrin, Senior, and Mrs. James Collins, were the focus of interest, sympathy, and prayers of women of the world last July as their husbands and sons flew through boundless space. Humanity waited with almost unbearable suspense until Neil Armstrong planted the first human footprint on the moon, remarking, ''One small step for a man, a giant leap for mankind.''We salute these women whose lives and examples have influenced their famous sons and husbands. The women displayed great courage and patience while waiting. Princess Sophie of Greece, wife of Prince Juan Carlos de Bourbon y Bourbon, grandson of the last King of Spain, will presumably become Queen of Spain upon the death or incapacitation of Generalissimo Francisco Franco, dictator of Spain. Franco and the parliament have agreed that Prince Juan shall become King of Spain as a_ constitutional monarchy, greatly modified in power and plan from the former Spanish monarchy. Sophie's son, one and one-half years old, will become next heir to the throne. Nea Norin, an Englishwoman who has climbed mountains in all parts of the world, eloquently narrates her extraordinary adventures in 'A Woman's Reach,"' a delight to read. Mrs. May Case of Clovis, California, ninety-one, still writes a weekly column for the Clovis Independent. She has been a newspaper reporter for seventy-six years, longer than any other woman in the United States. 745 EDITORIAL / What Shall the Harvest Be? A '' He [Jesus] went throughout every city and village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him, And certain women... Which ministered unto him of their substance. ''And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable: '"'A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls-of the air devoured it. '"'And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture. 'And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. "And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold....'' (Luke 8:1, 3-8.) This, the first, and adjudged by many most perfect of the parables, was interpreted by its divine Author: Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience. (Luke 8:11-15.) In this day when evil is rampant, the parable of the sower has particular significance. The ''riches and pleasures of life'' are the temptations the devil uses to draw men's hearts from following after the Volume 56 October 1969 Number 10 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 746 commandments of God. Jesus urges his followers to guard against the suggestions of the devil. Not only do these suggestions withhold men from good deeds, but they inspire evil thoughts and draw men to sin. The devil attacks at every point where weakness may lie, and never stops in performing his mission of evil with one kind of temptation alone. We are told to observe the condition of the soil in the story. The seed was the same, whether it fell on good ground or poor. The gospel is the same. It is the extent to which it is received which makes the difference. Some hear the word and embrace it for a brief period. As soon as obstacles appear, their enthusiasm dies as the roots from the seed sown in shallow soil shrivel from lack of nourishment. Some hear the word, but the pursuit of the world's pleasures soon smothers its voice, as the thorns and weeds choke out the burgeoning seed. Some hear the word not at all, it does not penetrate their consciousness, as the seed which falls on ground too hard for it to take root. Some hear the word and it thrives and grows within their souls. They tenderly nurture it, cultivate it, keep it free from weeds and thorns and reap harvests of blessings. Their eternal lives are abundantly good and yield an hundredfold to the harvester. What shall the harvest be? Each individual assures his own harvest. He reaps the consequences of his acts and deeds as time goes by. At the end of his mortal life, the sum of all of his productive years is the great harvest when the good is separated from the bad, as the wheat is separated from the weeds and carefully stored in a granary, and the weeds destroyed. It is from the harvest, from our receptiveness of the seed, the word of God, we will be judged. What shall the harvest be? Blessings or condemnation according to our works. —L. W. M. Ah. —E 7 ee eee. * >: —_ > eee ———————. ' = a v Ls 7 at a Seer t v ~, — 7 * se a ~~. Vom no: - } a, = P ror '. Sot Se ban A ements, wt. Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Manwaring Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love a Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Belva B. Ashton Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Orlene J. Poulsen Marjorie M. Reeve Ada J. Jones Helen G. Lach Aline R. Pettit Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore (= a ee! See eae owe © oes ae See ss Se Oot Cee eae wd vot relays "ee SELLE ESTES Do a a eee *. I ae ee | $96 OLN Oa eee General Board Members Released ie prs SS Pecriitiietiiicerrr2 icy The General Board of Relief Society announces as of July 18, 1969, the release of ten General Board members who have given valued service to the organization from twenty-nine to five years. Anna B. Hart was called to the General Board in 1940. In her twenty-nine years of service she has endeared herself to sisters throughout the world. Her extensive educational training has resulted in great benefits to Relief Society. Edith S. Elliot has served on the General Board since 1940, during which time she has rendered untiring service for the well-being of Relief Society members. Her sunny disposition and happy approach to her tasks influenced those with whom she has come in contact. Florence J. Madsen came to the General Board in 1941. During her long years of service to Relief Society she has aided the music program in taking giant steps toward becoming the meaningful program it is today. Sister Madsen's musical compositions and her skill in working toward the development of the Singing Mothers program will live forever. | Blanche B. Stoddard was appointed to the General Board in 1945, and has rendered outstanding service in aiding Relief Societies throughout the world in following the prescribed policies and practices of Relief Society. Her charming sense of humor has enabled her to achieve a rare rapport with those whom she has served in her twenty-four years of service. Edith P. Backman became a member of the General Board in 1953. Throughout her sixteen years of service she has given unselfish and valuable service in the field of educational programs. Her work in regional conferences has brought many commendations to the General Board. Elna P. Haymond was called to the General Board in 1953. Her service has been characterized by excellent preparation for the many tasks she was called upon to perform. Her dependability has caused her to be called upon for many services. Afton W. Hunt has endeared herself to sisters throughout the world since her appointment to the General Board in 1957. In her twelve years of service on the board she has traveled extensively, and has always been equipped to meet the responsibilities of conference assignments with intelligence and dignity. Eisa T. Peterson as served on the General Board since 1958. In her eleven years as a board member she has demonstrated countless qualities of leadership at regional conferences. Her social experiences and good taste have been invaluable in helping with conference receptions and other social activities. | 748 General Board Members Released Zola J. McGhie became a member of the General Board in 1962. Her service in the homemaking area of Relief Society and her contributions to the social activities of the Board have made her a valuable asset during her seven years of service. She has willingly fulfilled every assignment that has been given to her. Anne R. Gledhill received her appointment to the General Board in 1964. As a board member she has rendered outstanding service in regional conferences, and has achieved a valuable rapport with those whom she has served. The united love of the Board goes with these sisters for their loyal support of the organization. May the service they have rendered continue to inspire and elevate others to loftier goals, and may Relief Society always be a joy and blessing to them. NAUVOO -Nauvoo was a young man's town, When they braced the fearful fury of the foe. You can feel it. But those young men, facing west, Built for shelter—not for yearning, Did they feel themselves oppressed Planned for worship and for learning. When the band played, and they danced If these ancient walls could whisper In the snow? They would reveal it. Nauvoo is an old, old town. Nauvoo was a city they could leave— Time is slow Tears on cheek—mouth a-quiver, Since the frightened children stumbled As they walked that final track, While the Carthage cannons rumbled, Eyes ahead, no looking back, _ And the Temple spire crumbled, There would be no mound of salt on that cold, Long ago. Icy river. Surely old men would have wept, Full of woe, —Sadie O. Clark 749 Thoughts on College Beginnings / Marcella H. Morley ® College days have arrived for you, my son. Amid all of the hurried preparations prior to your leaving—all of the arrangements, the new clothes bought, and everything packed, there wasn't much time to think of how this new phase of life will affect the family. But now, as we travel homeward driving farther and farther away from where you are, and being very definitely aware of the probability of your never really living at home any more, my thoughts are turned toward many things, especially of how proud we are to have a son like you. You have been gaining so much understanding and wisdom in the way you have learned to accept disappointments, to admit mistakes, and also to accept the responsibility for the consequences. This is the beginning of maturity. I am thinking of a recent incident in which you had the necessity to make a split-second decision. You made the choice—which, as things worked out, was the wrong one. [ recall you said, "It was a wrong decision, but I did my best." You were not discouraged, because you had done your best, and you will go on from there to do better, using this experience as a guide. I am also remembering the events of today: leaving home before dawn, and the long drive in the rain. Then, when we had reached our destination, driving around the beautiful campus, with its broad stretches of lawn, and the stately old buildings harmonizing beautifully with the lovely new ones. Then, after we had delivered all of your belongings at the dormitory, which would be your new home for the coming year, we drove you back to the Administration Building—where we would part. I feel that I can now understand to a small degree the feelings of our Father in heaven as he sends each of his children to earth. He dearly loves them and would like them to remain with him always, but for their development and progress, they must be parted for awhile. And so each one, as the time is right, is sent to earth to gain experiences here. Perhaps you were feeling and know to some degree, how very difficult it was for us to leave you walking alone up that beautiful tree-lined path toward the door of your future. As you turned to wave goodbye, you suddenly seemed so very young. This in direct contrast to the thoughts I had been thinking for many months—that you had grown tall and were becoming an adult. And now you seemed almost too young to leave on your own. The years have slipped by rapidly—so very rapidly! As you turned and walked up the pathway, I felt an assurance that many doors would open for you following this day, because of the choice you made when you chose to open the door of education for your future. 7 <=> —_— >=. A Edythe K. Watson —— Member, General Board of Relief Society D2 S. Sce ae / What is more appealing to the appetite than the tantalizing aroma of a casserole brimful of flavor? Simple foods, such as stews and leftovers, take on a new elegance and importance when served as casseroles. One-dish meals require little watching, and with a side serving of salad, bread, and milk, little else is needed for a hearty meal. Fortunately, casserole recipes are usually quite flexible. Proportions and main ingredients can be varied without diminishing the flavor or quality of the dishes. Happily, in these days of high food prices, less meat may be used, more potatoes, rice, spaghetti, and vegetables may be added for bulk. Either fresh, frozen, or canned foods, depending on their availability or price, may be used. Casseroles are well known as time savers. Provident homemakers find it a good practice to prepare two or more casseroles at one time from like ingredients, one to be cooked for tonight's dinner, the other to be popped into the freezer to be brought out for unexpected company, for dinner on Relief Society day, or to be taken to a sick friend. Preparation for the Sabbath day may be minimized by frequent use of casseroles prepared in advance. Casserole recipes cover a wide range of foods. They may be served in a simple or an elegant manner, as the occasion demands. Why not try some of the following delicious recipes? Or you may wish to concoct some of your own. Put a casserole in the oven and relax. @ HOLSTROM HASH 1 Ib. Ground chuck V4 tsp. Minced garlic 1 tbsp. Butter or margarine 3% c. Or 1 12 oz. Can tomatoes 1% c. Diced green pepper 1 c. Uncooked elbo macaroni Yc. Instant minced onion V2 tsp. Basil 22 tsp. Salt 1 can tomato paste Y tsp. Ground black pepper VY, c. Diced cheddar cheese 1 tsp. Sugar Brown meat in butter or margarine in a 2% quart saucepan. Add next 10 ingredients. Mix well. Bring to boil. Pour into greased casserole. Cook covered for 30 minutes at 350°. Fold in cheese and serve. Serves 6-8. 752 Casserole Cookery FAMILY FA VORITE Ca SSEROLE 2 C. Cooked rice Ya Square butter or Margarine 1 Ib. Ground beef 3 ¢. Medium white sauce Ye medium Onion, chopped 1 can tomato soup SAUSAGE AND CORN CASSEROLE (Our special favorite) 4 medium-sized potatoes peeled lc. Milk and sliced thin 1 Ib. Link Sausage 1 can cream style corn Salt and Pepper to taste 1 medium Onion In lightly greased Casserole arrange potatoes, grated onion, cream Style corn. Cover with milk. Place Sausage links on top. Cook in 350° for j hour. Serves 6. HAMBURGER PIE 1 medium Onion (grated) 1 11 oz. Can condensed tomato soup 1 Ib. Ground beef 5 medium potatoes, cooked Salt and Pepper "2 Cc. Warm milk 2 Cc. Green beans, Canned, 1 beaten egg Cooked fresh, or frozen Salt and Pepper 1 ¢. Cooked Carrots 1 c. Whole kernel corn MAGNIFICENT CASSEROLE 8 oz. Package noodles—Cook noodles in boiling salted water until tender. Drain. Beat together— 8 oz. Pkg. Cream cheese 1 Ib. Carton cottage cheese Ya C. Sour cream Fold in— % C. Green Onion, chopped 1 tbsp. Green pepper Brown 2 Ibs. Round beef. Drain fat, and add 2 cans tomato Sauce. |n Slightly greased Casserole arrange in layers, layer of noodles, layer of cheese mixture, layer Of meat. Cover with 1% c. Of 8rated Swiss cheese. Bake 375° for 30 minutes. Serves 8. % ¢. Butter % tsp. Onion Salt Yc. Flour Pepper to taste 2c. Milk % tsp. Worcestershire Sauce % tsp. Salt 753 In buttereq Casserole Place layer of White Sauce, layer Of fish, ] tsp. Chopped Pimento 4 C. Nippy Cheddar. Repeat, ending with layer of hite say OP with buttereg bread crumbs and bake 325¢ for about 30 Minutes, or UNtil slight; Owned on ¢ P. Serves 4 to 6. CHICKEN RICE CASSEROLE lc. UNCOOked rice Salt and Pepper, use very SParingly Can Chicken sou Cut up fryer (Chicken beasts Package dry Onion Soup are specially delicious) Cc. Milk Place rice in bottom of Sreased Casserole ay Chicken Pieces on rice. Prinkle With Onion mix Combine Chicken SOUD an Ik ang Pour over OP. Bake at 300° for 2Y% Ours. Cover With foil for Part of baking time. Erves 6 MEAT PIE Yc Nion, Chopped le. Leftover Carrot Yo celery, Cubed C. Pea C. Cubed leftover beef lec leftover Srav C. Cubed |ef Over Potatoes rich biscuit dough Brown celery aNd onion 'N hot fat Add » POtatoe ' Carrots, and pea Add 8ravy, S€ason to taste. P into Casserole, top with ba Powd biscuit Bake jn MOderate Oven. 375 for 15 ¢ Minutes or UNti! Bisc ts are 80lden brown Serves 6 CORNED BEEF CASSEROLE 46. Broken NOodles lc. 8rated American Cheese 1 can (10% 02.) Cream of Mushroom Soup 1] ¢ Sp. Dehydrat d onion '% oc. €Vaporateg Milk Or 2 tbs Chopped Onion 1 can (10 z.) Corned beef 2 C. Potato Chips, Crushed Cook NOOdles in 7 quart UNSalted boiling water unti tender (about 10 to] nutes) drain. Mix ained Noodles, Cream of USNroom Soup, Oke Pieces (bite SIZe) of Corned bee dehydrate Onion, ang Mlk, Poy into Ereased jl, quart cas Over with Stated ¢ €ese: OP with broken Potato 015 Minutes, Or unti| bubbly hot. Variag; Serves 6. Serole dish Chips Bake IN 4250 ariation: Use ] c Oven for 19 an (7 0Z.) tuna fish (Well drained), Salt to taste (if bouillon Cube js used, 9 not adg Salt) Heat rice in butter Pour hot Chicken stock Over heated rice and butter. Let Come to 4 boil Remo € from he t and lace in Casserole Cook for 30 Minutes jn 350° Oven, Sweet and Sour Chicken 1 large Chi ken, Cooked aNd boneg 2c. Pineapple jUice 4 tbsp Cornstarch 2 tbsp. SOY Sauce 1 tsp. Salt l4Z¢ green p PPer strips Yc. Brown Sugar 2 cans #2 Pineapple Chunks Ye vinegar 1 tsp. Minced dr €d onion Combine corn tarch, Salt, brown Sar, vinegar, and Pineapple Juice. Cook until thickeneg Add ¢ ICken, gree Pepper, and Pineapple Chunk leld: 10 Serving 754 €rve hot Over rice. Casserole Cookery HAM AND EGG CASSEROLE 2c. Ground ham Y% medium onion, finely chopped VY large green pepper, finely chopped Sauté together in small amount of butter Hard-cook 1 dozen eggs, slice. Mix 1 can of mushroom soup with 2 can milk In buttered casserole, alternate layers of soup mixture, ham mixture, eggs, ending with soup mixture. Top with buttered bread crumbs to which about 1 c. Grated medium cheddar cheese has been added. Place in 300° oven for about 20 minutes or until mixture starts to bubble and is nicely browned on top. Serves 8. This is particularly appropriate for a brunch. CHICKEN CASSEROLE Cook until tender a large fat stewing hen (4% to 5 Ibs). Cool in broth and remove meat from bones Dressing 6 c. Soft bread crumbs 6 tsp. Broth Y2 c. Butter 1 c. Celery diced fine 1 tsp. Salt 1 medium onion, chopped dash pepper 1 tsp. Sage Sauté onion in butter until slightly brown. Combine with rest of the ingredients. Place in bottom of baking dish. Lay slices of chicken on top. Pour sauce over top. Cook at 300° for 1, hour. (Cover with foil for part of cooking time.) Sauce Y2 c. Chicken fat 4c. Broth 1 square butter (12 c.) - 2 tsp. Salt lc. Flour 4 eggs lc. Milk Cook all together, except eggs, until thick, stirring constantly. Beat eggs. Pour thickened mixture over eggs, stirring constantly. Return to pan and heat through but do not boil. Serves 12 to 15. SEEDTIME AND HARVEST Today as | look from my window at half-bare trees, At crimson and gold, gay-dotting the landscape over, | give grateful thanks to God on bended knees For flowers and fruits, for sun and succulent clover; That ''While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, And cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day And night shall not cease.'' The owl and the bluebird shall nest. We shall be gladdened alike by the sun's golden ray And storms, be they gentle or wild; that age follows youth, f\'\ \\S35me:- That earth is our home and around it the waters are curled, \\="t== And we who are a part of it all, treasure each truth As seasons come and go and light illumines the world. —Zara Sabin 755 Black | Walnut "=o Gathering, Pauline L. Jensen @ In my childhood, October meant more than blue skies, glorious sunsets and crisp nights when we pulled the wool comforters to our chins and snuggled in dreamy content beneath them. It meant more than the red of sumac and maple leaves; more than the final fling of beauty from the chrysanthemum bushes before winter descended and gently cradled them in sleep. October, in Nebraska, was black walnut gathering time. There, in my early years, black walnuts grew in abundance in the woods of every farm. Tall and straight, the trees stretched along the banks of the turbulent Missouri River. In rows, they formed a windbreak on the side-roads, having been planted, in many instances, by the first settlers of the region. An abundance of trees did not always insure us of an ample supply of the delicious nuts that added a touch of luxury to our simple fare. After the first frost, people came in droves to retrieve each nut that fell along the highways or on the river banks. In the farm woodlands, the squirrels hoarded great stores of them against the long winter months ahead. But farmers were kind, generous people, willing to share their bounty with neighbors and friends, or even strangers. We were fortunate, in that we had relatives living in the country. Invariably, in early October after the first frost, we set aside a day as "Black Walnut Day." The entire clan then gathered at the home of one of the farming members of the group. I remember with what joyous anticipation we looked forward to these affairs. The winey odor of fallen apples met us as we stepped from the car. Chickens preened their feathers in sheltered spots beside the house, and cats squatted in the sun, their eyes glinting in their solemn faces. In the fields, corn shocks stood in wigwam fashion, reminding us that in the not too distant past, true wigwams had stood upon that very soil. The feel and scent that belongs only to October filled the air. This was the typical "Black Walnut" day of my younger ~ years. I recall with nostalgic longing the appetizing fragrance of roasting pork, baking chickens, spicy pies, and hot rolls that we encountered as we opened the door. Because most of my ancestors were of Pennsylvania Dutch extraction, the food conformed to that mode of cooking. And where could one find better? More than the traditional "seven sweets" and "seven sours" graced the enlarged tables. Wee 756 Black Walnut Gathering Black walnuts had been used in every possible way: in the apple salad with its homemade sweet dressing; in the plain and chocolate cakes and cookies. Broken nutmeats spilled from the white and dark icings and topped the pumpkin pies. After all were satiated with rich food, the men assembled walnut harvesting gear—pails and gunny sacks. The older women stayed behind to do the dishes and straighten up the kitchen and dining room, and get caught up on news and recipes. The children dashed ahead, dogs barking and darting between them. When they reached the grove, they vied with each other in finding the biggest nuts, and filling pails. In no time, it seemed, sacks were full and stood in neat rows, waiting to be tied and loaded into the waiting wagon. This done, the children clambered aboard, and with much shouting, urged the horses homeward. The older members of the party walked slowly toward the house savoring the beauty of the day, the fresh air and exercise. Back in the farmyard, the children drank long draughts of cold well water, and washed the grime, but not the stain, from their hands. This would remain for weeks. It would be the identifying mark that led one schoolmate to extend his hands to another, and say, "You've been walnut hunting, too." While the men reloaded the pungent nuts in the various cars, the women scurried about, putting the leftovers from dinner on the table, where each could help himself. As the signs of evening approached, everyone made ready to leave in order to get home by dark. In the corral, cows lowed, horses neighed, and calves bawled for food. Although the red sunset of the "sailor's delight" emblazoned the sky, one could faintly see the outline of the moon. The scarlet leaf of a maple drifted by. Goodbyes were called, the cars started, and people settled back against the hard cushions. Truly, this black walnut gathering had been one to remember! AUTUMN Autumn has not come for me, Until | see a chestnut tree In all its golden majesty, On some October day. As sunshine's penetrating beams Reach into branches, nature seems Triumphant in the color schemes That glitter, dance, and play. Brilliant hues of gold are fired, -8=% And tones of bronze and brown acquired, As amber, saffron, leaves are pyred In breathtaking array. Of all the season's rare delights, This scene most pleases and excites, te WA o' And lifts my soul to unknown heights,. He On some October day. —Ruth G. Rothe 757 Make Your Own Ba ( y Look Grace Diane Jessen Every child treasures the stories, the pictures and mementos that tell of him alone. When these bits are bound together under one cover that can expand with the years as he grows and learns, they become doubly precious. You can make a book for your baby (or a grandchild or a friend) that will be more cherished than any book purchased in a store, because a bit of your love, your personality and creativity will remain stamped onto the pages forever. This book will be less expensive in terms of dollars and cents, but more precious to the one who receives it because you make it just for him. The following directions tell how you can make a basic baby book. You may wish to make many changes or additions to fit your own ideas, and, of course, many pages can be added as the child grows. MATERIALS NEEDED First, purchase these materials from genealogical supplies: One inexpensive ''Book of Remembrance'"' cover. (These cost about 50¢ and are available in different colors and designs.) One personal record page One personal health record page One pedigree chart One portrait pedigree chart One dozen sheets of plain heavy bond paper. (This has prepunched holes as do the other genealogy pages.) Assemble your old greeting cards, appropriate pictures from magazines, a few packages of baby and flower seals, or'a package of baby gift-wrapping paper. These items can be used as you desire to add decorative touches to the pages or you may prefer to draw your own if you have artistic talent. You will need a fine felt-tip pen in a bright color for writing page-headings and also a bottle of glue or rubber cement. PROCEDURE Begin by using one of the heavy plain sheets for the inside cover page. Use a stencil or write as neatly as possible "This is the story of" followed by a blank line if the book is for an unnamed baby. Write in the name in large, attractive letters if you know it. Trim the page with flowers, birds, pictures, or whatever appeals to you, but make the name the focal point of the page. Page two is the personal record sheet, trimmed, if desired, with tiny flowers in the upper margin. Under the heading "Important Events," mother may wish to write such details of baby's birth as his measurements, attending physician, and time of arrival. Page three is the personal health record which may be decorated similar to page two. 758 Make Your Own Baby's Book Page four is the pedigree chart with the title "My Family Tree" added at the top of the page. Using colored pencils, sketch in the outline of a large tree which nearly fills the page from top to bottom. Very lightly fill in the coloring with pencil where desired. This will add background to the page. But will not obscure the names and dates when they are added later. Page five is made from the plain heavy bond paper and is divided down the middle by a wavy line, a short straight line or other design. It need not extend from the top to the bottom of the page, but only four five or six inches in the center. Choose one type of dividing mark and use it on all the divided pages throughout the book. Entitle one section "Visitors" and the other "Gifts." Add any pictures or trim that you consider appropriate. Page six is also divided into two sections. These are entitled 'First Foods" and "Favorites." Page seven is for "My Development" and may contain subheadings such as "First Smile," "Sat Up Alone," "First Word," "First Steps," and others. Page eight can be divided three ways and labeled '""My Birthdays" with subheadings for "First," "Second," and "Third." Page nine is for "My First Christmas" and "Second" and "Third." Additional pages may be added later for other birthdays and Christmases. You may choose to devote a whole page to just one birthday and include snapshots of it. Page ten is divided into two sections which are labeled "Travels" and "Teachers." Page eleven is for '""Mother's Notes" with one corner set aside for information on "My First Haircut." A small envelope can be glued here to hold a lock of baby's hair. Page twelve contains a space for "My Birth Announcement" and "My Footprints." Page thirteen is entitled "Birth and Blessing Certificates." Page fourteen is for "Cards and Clippings." The heavy bond paper is sturdy enough to glue these items on satisfactorily, but, if you prefer, you may purchase sheets of plastic film which fit over these pages. Then the certificates will stay in place without being glued and will be protected from dust and fingerprints as well. Page fifteen is for the portrait pedigree, and is followed by a blank page entitled "Snapshots." These pages are sufficient for a basic book for baby. If you are making one for your own baby, you can assemble the materials and take them along when you go to the hospital. Then you can spend those lonely leisure hours after baby arrives in finishing his book just the way you want it.. As your child starts to school, you may wish to add a page for each year including a picture of him. On his twelfth birthday, you can present this record to him and let him have the opportunity of keeping it up to date. He may wish to copy some of your genealogical pages of his ancestry to include in his book. If your child shows a desire to expand and continue the book, you could give him a more durable and permanent cover for it for another birthday. In this way, his "baby book" can grow with him and provide a cherished record of all his life. 759 on | ' sook Bh Bae =) & ag He ay Nancy D. F. Tuddenham Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia Wi lways Granny, never ny Sister, just Granny. A She was Granny to all of us, bless her. An Islander from the Torres Straits, brown of skin and great of heart. Loving her large family, all relatives included, and loved and respected by them. As her name implies, she was not young in years, but was young in spirit. Once we wanted something different for entertainment for a conference. What? Then came the answer — Granny knew Island dances, she could teach us how to do them. So, Granny did, much to our enjoyment and her own. We would sit on the floor, four or five white sisters, three or four native sisters, with Granny in front of us. 760 She would sing the song, and we would try and write down the words phonetically, then we would try to sing them. Why ree roh, ah why ree ree roh, Cor mah tee, cor mah tee, Why ree roh, ah why ree ree roh, Cor mah tee, cor mah tee, Ah kiapee kiapee kiapee Eoh ra coh roh kiapee oh Gh Gh Gh Coh roh, Ah kiapee kiapee kiapee Coh ra coh roh oh oh Gh oh oh coh roh. Then she would show us the movements. As we tried, we must have looked very funny. Granny's ample form would shake with laughter. "No! T'is way, watch me!" Aggie, her daughter-in-law, would start the beat again, using a couple of knives on a chopping board. "One two tree go!" And we would try again, very often ending up helpless with laughter ourselves, as we strove to attain the grace and rhythm of the dance. Eventually we could manage. Porma was best at learning the movements; Dot, best at learning the words; the rest of us got through somehow. If we couldn't master the words, we sang the tune, if neither—we made believe. Granny would always tell us "Don't watch me—look at peoples out t'ere." But try as we would, we had to watch her, or get lost. Her great patience won _ through, though. Then with our coconut leaf skirts, paper leis around our necks, floral dresses, colored rags at our ankles, and pretty scarves tied to our wrists, we were on. Granny stole the show—as she should. The energy she put into each dance, sitting down, or standing up, singing with all her might, was something to be seen. With the last breathless "Herp!" she would bring us to a stop. Granny would be laughing with, it seemed to be, the sheer joy of living. Incidentally, we were asked to do these dances quite a few times. Granny—with her wonderful testimony of the gospel, and her great faith in and love for her Heavenly Father. Many a testimony meeting Granny there has not been a dry eye in the chapel, as she has given her testimony in her English, which made it all the more poignant, because she would not get the words she wanted to use. Her greatest joy was her son and his family steadily growing in strength in the gospel, and her most ardent prayers were for the one who had left the fold, and the ones who would not enter. Granny—who poured out her love on all and sundry, a kiss and a hug for everyone. Her crinkly gray hair pulled back to a bunch at the back, very often with an hibiscus flower stuck into it. Her wide—I must admit—toothless grin that was wonderful. She was proud—as any Islander. Proud that two of her grandsons were on a_ building mission. Proud of the priesthood they and her son held, the positions her daughter-in-law and granddaughter held—the unity there was in the family. Still trying to "larn 'im English more better," so she could "understan' more better t' gospel." An enigma in the branch, and a well-loved one. Whose nimble fingers could do the loveliest embroidery, make the prettiest leis? Who always had a smile and a cheery word, even when her heart or her body was aching? Who loved everyone, and whom everyone loved. Who? Our Granny. ES 761 October 1969 Mary Roseltha Fuller Burnett, Ben Lomond South Stake, Ogden, Utah, seldom experiences an idle moment. If she is not cooking or baking, she is sewing or quilting, all of which she does very well. Her rolls melt in your mouth, and she designs her own quilts, having completed more than 150, along with 100 pair of embroidered pillowcases. Everyone in her ward looks forward to receiving a telephone call from Sister Burnett on her birthday, an assignment she faithfully and happily fulfills for the bishop. She has served in the presidency of Relief Society and in the other auxiliaries, and has been beloved as a teacher in all of the Church organizations. Sister Burnett has a large family tree, consisting of thirteen children, forty-one grandchildren, ninety great-grandchildren, and six great-great-grandchildren. Eva Elizabeth Harmon Gledhill, Riverside Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, has made more quilts than she has time to count. In one year, at the age of seventy-six, she completed thirty large quilts alone, and had pieced the tops for five more. She intends that each of her forty-five grandchildren and twenty-six great-grandchildren will have one of her quilts. She has nine children. Sister Gledhill has been a faithful Relief Society visiting teacher for sixty years and is still teaching. She has also served as Relief Society secretary, and, when as Magazine representative for seven years, her ward was on the Honor Roll. She has served in the presidencies and has taught many years in the other auxiliaries. 762 HEAR'T ROOM FOR HOME | Alice Morrey Bailey 5 Chapter 5 SYNOPSIS: Several major changes have taken place in the Freeman family as a direct result of Kim, the father, and Mary Ann, the mother, bringing Kim's father from his lovely little home in Mayville, Utah, to Los Angeles to care for him after hospitalization for a fractured hip. Mary Ann has had to resign her teaching position to care for him, even though she has been supporting their son, Tommy, in his last year of college, and their daughter, Rosemary, has expected her to stand the expense of her coming wedding to Cary Marks. Rosemary, who has previously said she had no intention of working, applies for Mary Ann's teaching position, where she has been substituting, and gets it. Tommy blandly accepts a scholarship which has been available to him for the last two quarters. Nevertheless, the family budget is still strained, with Mary Ann feeling the brunt of it. ® For a moment Mary Ann was shocked, even frightened, at the command in Kim's voice. "What's mine is yours, don't you know that, honey?" he went on. "You know what there is to spend. Go ahead and spend it." That was right. She did know how much there was to spend, but it was practically all spent by the time Kim got it. If only they had stayed in their smaller home, which was paid for! But it had seemed the only thing to do, to turn it in on a bigger place as the family grew. Four bedrooms had not been too much, with the children coming often, sometimes for overnight visits. A swimming pool and a double 763 October 1969 garage had seemed necessities at the time, and they were still in use, but the payments were high and seemed endless, with ten more years to go on their mortgage. Taxes were as high as modest rent by themselves. And there was still Christmas coming. "Mother, I had no idea how easy it is for money to slip through your fingers," said Rosemary. "I thought I was wealthy when I got my pay check, but it is nearly gone and nothing saved for my wedding." This was a good lesson for Rosemary to learn before her marriage, thought Mary Ann, but she said nothing. Let Rosemary do her own thinking. And Rosemary did. The next afternoon she called Tommy to help her unload a piece of furniture from the trunk of the car. "Where in the world did you get that antique?" he asked. "It is antique, isn't it?" said Rosemary, her eyes shining. "A solid walnut night stand, and I got it for six dollars at an auction. ['m going to strip and refinish it. One of the other teachers told me how, and Cary is going to help me." 1. Grandfather wheeled his walker near and looked at it. "T declare!" he said. "I have its exact mate at home. She bought it when we were first married." "Grandfather! Do you really?" "I have, really, and if you like it you may have it." Rosemary threw her arms ecstatically around her grandfather and kissed him. When Kim got home an hour 764 later he brought a checkbook for Mary Ann. "Joint account," he said. "And, Mary Ann, I hit the boss up for some overtime I heard him talking about and he says fine. Time and a half until Christmas. It will help us over the hump." "Are you sure, Kim? Can you - stand it? You come home dead tired every night, and it will be like having two jobs." "Why not?" Kim said. "Look how long you ran this house and taught school to boot. Any woman who works outside her home has two jobs, really. Don't think I didn't notice the strain of it on you. A man should be stronger than a woman, more able to work long hours." "Kim, you're the most wonderful man in the world,' Mary Ann said, and meant it. That was all right for a temporary measure, but not for always, and it wasn't the final answer. Maybe, after the children were gone, things would even out or they would find some other answer, but this would do for now. Christmas was' wonderful, with all the children home for Christmas Eve, the little ones performing in turn, singing the carols, playing their amateur, and not so amateur pieces on the piano and other instruments. Grandfather Freeman sat and listened, unashamedly wiping his eyes from the steady outpouring of happy tears to see his grandchildren and_ greatgrandchildren all under one joyous roof, the progeny of his only son, Kim. "T don't know as you need snow for Christmas," he said. "T guess they did without it in Bethlehem when Christ was born." Grandfather Freeman was not the only one to feel sentimental at this time of celebration. It was a last Christmas in some other ways, the last time they would be together for the occasion before Rosemary and Cary would be married. Goodness knows where Tommy would be by another Christmas. He was already getting tentative offers, so many that it was a matter of choice for him. Kim and Mary Ann had reason to be proud of their whole family. James was a pilot and had been flying for some time, the Hawaii-San Francisco flight. "We've about decided to move to Hawaii," he said. "It is so lovely there, and if Jennifer and Dick go there we'tl be near them." "Oh," wailed Mary Ann. "Don't talk about such things. Why do children have to go so far from their parents?" "We'll be here," comforted Barbara."'And Robert and Heidi." "Not us," said Robert. "My company has offered me too good a job in New York. I can't pass it up." Robert was in the management of Interspace Research, with a Ph. D. In physics. It seemed to Mary Ann her family was flying apart with the speed of light. She deliberately changed the subject. "Did you see Rosemary's solid walnut night stand?" she asked, and it worked. Rosemary and Cary were the recipients of much advice as to how to finish her heirloom piece, that and the one her grandfather had promised her. Heart Room for Home "I'm not even going to start on it until I get the one Grandfather is giving me. I want them to be alike, but I have my eye on a wonderful walnut bed in an old junky shop on Broadway. I don't dare show too much interest in it, for fear the dealer will learn its worth. One of those high-backed jobs, _ exquisitely carved." Honestly?" said Heidi. "I'd paint it white and antique it." "Antique solid walnut?" said Rosemary incredulously. "Not on your life. This one will be stripped to the wood and refinished in oil, rubbed to a sheen. I have to have that bed!"' Kim looked at Mary Ann and she looked guiltily back. Such a bed as Rosemary described had been ludicrously old fashioned in their early marriage. "What I like about it is the length," said Cary. "Where else could you buy a seven-foot bed unless you made it? It's a real handicap sometimes being six foot-four." "What silver pattern are you getting?" said Carol. "I don't know!" wailed Rosemary. "The one I want costs sixty-five for a six-piece place setting, besides all the _ big pieces. It could run into a thousand dollars and I simply couldn't afford it." That was no doubt the pattern she had expected her mother to buy before she went to work. "Don't look at me," said Cary. "All I expect to buy is the place to put it. It is an ancient custom for the _ bride to bring the bridegroom a handsome dowry." 765 October 1969 "Register for it," said the practical Barbara. "And see what comes in as gifts." "T don't want my wedding to be commercial," said Rosemary, to. Her mother's amazement. Her early demands had seemed very commercial to Mary Ann. Was Rosemary changing, or had her mother never understood her youngest daughter? "IT would love to be married in a dress made by my own mother," said Rosemary. "You're a wonderful seamstress." "Darling, you shall be!" said Mary Ann, almost overcome. Oh, this girl was revealing herself to be really something! How could her parents ever have thought of her as selfish and demanding? Tommy was very attentive to the little scene, and Cary's arm tightened about Rosemary. It was plain to see he had never misjudged his sweetheart and Mary Ann was glad. They would be taking into their marriage the same understanding as she and Kim shared. She looked at Kim. He had taken out his handkerchief to sop his eyes. "Kim, I don't want to go on pretending something which is not true," she told him later. "T did like my job. I loved having my own money." "Did you, dear? Oh, I'm sorry to have made you give all that up." "Don't be. Look what I would have missed—seeing Rosemary develop, understanding her at last. It would have been disaster for her to take those resentments into her marriage, and I would have never known how it was with her or been able to set her 766 on the right course." "And Dad! I think it is really working out with him. Did you ever see a happier old man than he is? I believe we have it made—that his involvement with going home in the spring is moving farther and farther from his mind. Oh, I'l] keep my promise to him; that place will never be sold in his lifetime or in mine—not by me." The holidays were past and Tommy had registered for winter quarter. "I have my thesis title," he said. "You have? What is it?" Mary Ann. Asked. "Very mundane. 'The' Place of the Aged in Our Society.' " "T think that is a wonderful subject, Tommy. What made you choose that?" "It's a natural, with a case history right in my own home. Oh, Ill have the statistics and the whole picture. My dean is quite enthused about it. He wants me to write a preliminary paper for a symposium to be held in Washington in April. If it turns out well I get to go there and present it." "Why, Tommy! I sound like a parrot saying everything is wonderful, but it is wonderful!" "T think it is, too, Mother. It is a wonderful feeling to know where youre going, at last. I've been on the edge of decision so long I feel split down the middle." "You undecided, Tommy? It is hard for me to believe that?" "You'd better believe it, Mother. I was on the verge of tackling a psychiatrist, but this last Christmas, with its range of age—Jennifer's Becky to Grandfather, and all the ages in between spread out a picture to me and everything seemed to fall into place—the whole scheme of life. Best of all, my place in i" Proof of Tommy's assertion came close on its heels. He burst in excitedly from his first day of classwork in the new quarter. "T've found her!" he said. "I've met my girl!" "What's her name? Who is she?" demanded Rosemary, too stunned as were Mary Ann and Kim, to be facetious. "T don't know," said Tommy without shame. "I just know she is the one!" "T told you it would be like atomic fission," said Rosemary. "But I thought you would at least know her name. Where's all that caution now, that handpicked, home-raised girl?" Heart Room for Home "You saw her last Sunday. That new girl in Church. She was In my class today." Mary Ann breathed a sigh of relief. All their children to date had married well and had been married in the temple. They were all following a pattern of Church activity and their parents very often reminded themselves of this great blessing. "Aren't we crossing bridges?" asked Kim when they were alone. "If Tommy knows nothing about her except that she was in Church, isn't that taking a good deal for granted? It still doesn't insure that she is good wife material for a boy like Tommy, or in fact that she will be that easy for him to marry." "You said you knew me the minute you saw me, and you didn't know my name either." "That was different." "Was it? How?" "T didn't notice any new girl in Church last Sunday," said Kim evasively. "She couldn't have been so outstanding." "We'll just have to trust Tommy's _ instincts," decided Mary Ann. "Right," Kim agreed. "We can't live our children's lives." "Now don't worry about Tommy during the day," said Mary Ann when she kissed Kim goodbye next morning. "Just remember how well your father is, how happy he is here." But the mail brought a forthright letter from Kim's sister Emily Dodd. ".. You'll have to do something positive about that place. Last night some boys pried off the boards of one of the windows and got in. They didn't 767 October 1969 do much damage, just built a fire in the fireplace and toasted marshmallows. That is how we found out. Victor saw the smoke coming out of the chimney and went right over, but an empty house is a temptation for vandals. I still think you ought to sell it. I've thought so all along." Father Freeman didn't say anything, just handed the letter 768 TAPESTRY OF DEEDS Between the warp and woof Of night and day We spin our fabric of life Upon earth's loom. We watch the design of others Then, with heddles and batten We beat and weave. A pattern forms, We struggle with the thread Of self-recognition, Principle and ambition. Its fragile appearance denies The strength of habit And becomes a tapestry of deeds Ranging from dark sorrow To a sunburst of happiness, Now a fabric bejeweled With strength, quality and beauty. The pattern is our own— For we card, pull, spin, Twist and weave The silken silver threads Into our destiny. —Margaret B. Shomaker to Mary -Ann to read. "Don't worry, Dad," she consoled. "This only proves Victor and Emily are on the job. They'll watch it doubly close now that this has happened." "I'm sure' youre _ right," said her father-in-law, but that night he wasn't hungry'and he went to bed without dinner. (To be continued) All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities EAST MILL CREEK STAKE (UTAH) HOLDS VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, May 2, 1969 Left to right: East Mill Creek stake and ward visiting teacher message leaders: Bea Savage, stake; Gayle Jorgensen, Third Ward; Alta Dean, Eleventh Ward; Jean Bruderer, Sixth Ward; Darlene Parkin, Fourth Ward; Elva Williams, Twelfth Ward; Tanetta Sorensen, Seventh Ward; Eileen Dunyon, East Mill Creek Ward; Carmen Thompson, Ninth Ward; Ada Whiteley, Second Ward. Bodell Balli, President, East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The members of the stake board were in charge of planning our first visiting teacher convention held in our stake in nearly a decade. The theme for the convention was 'Trees of Life,' and an original skit was presented which enumerated the commendable qualities of various forest trees and related these qualities to the work of a visiting teacher. "Music for the convention was rendered by a string ensemble and a chorus of Singing Mothers under the direction of Karen Smith, chorister, and Genevieve Callister, organist. Elna P. Haymond of the General Board spoke on 'The Purpose and Importance of Visiting Teaching.' "The convention proved to be inspirational and a fitting climax to a year of devoted service by our visiting teachers."' 769 a TTT October 1969 DENVER SOUTH STAKE (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS INTERNATIONAL SMORGASBORG DINNER, April 13, 1969 Members of the Littleton Ward who sponsored the English Foods section, left to right: Dona Stone; Jean Cauble; Helen Lowe, President; Jean Bush; Penny Milne. Helen B. Thornton, President, Denver South Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Over 600 members of our stake and their guests enjoyed our international smorgasborg dinner. Upon entering the gaily decorated cultural hall, one caught the spirit of a fun-filled evening. Delicious food from seven different countries was served from cleverly decorated booths, by sisters in native costumes. "During the evening, entertainment closely associated with the countries represented was presented. It was an outstanding event, and greatly aided the fund-raising drive for the ward Relief Societies."' B OREM STAKE (UTAH) SPONSORS A CREATIVE WRITING CONTEST March 15, 1969 Winners in the creative writing contest and stake literature class leader, left to right: Jeralyn Moncur; Beth Taylor, stake cultural refinement class leader; Connie Eitner; Shirley Jo Freese; Cecilia Harris; Deborah Summers; Gloria Chapman; Roger Chapman; James Jeppson. Bertha T. Kirk, President, Orem Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We feel that we have had a very successful year, climaxing with a creative writing contest. Plans are for making this an annual event. It was for poetry and short story, and open to both men and women from the age of twelve on up. The divisions were separated at nineteen years of age. "The contest opened in November 1968 and closed in March of 1969. We had four categories for judging in the poetry: humorous, sacred, secular, and overall, with both junior and senior divisions in each category. ''We are very happy about the results of this contest and feel that it has enriched the lives of all who participated." CALIFORNIA NORTH MISSION, TEMPLE INDIAN BRANCH HAS ACTIVE RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, left to right: Alice M. Funk, Secretary-Treasurer Temple Indian Branch Relief Society; Violet Alexander, President; Irene Ashenfelter, First Counselor. Standing, left to right: Rena Louverin; Margaret Lewis; Mary Yazzie; Priscilla Chiago; Katherine Cleveland; Elsie Brown. Leonora B. Cox, former supervisor, California North Mission Relief Society, reports: 'We are pleased with the progress of this new Relief Society, organized one year ago. The officers are Indians from tribes throughout the country. These sisters meet in love and sisterhood. They carry forth a full program of lessons. Throughout the winter months, and in the summer they have met each week to work on handicraft items. All of the officers and teachers are at least part Indian."' Edna. C. Terry is the new supervisor of the California North Mission. LR TE ~~ LL Suton sh Aatatsr Sesksec eae aeeree? rr ne ee October 1969 WILFORD STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "ONE WORLD," May 1, 1969 Left to right: Kathy Moyes; Phyllis McKee; Elsie Fudge; Jerry Catmull; Janet Baer. Elna Hart Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We all felt that our 'May Day' program was a tremendous success. Our overall theme was 'One World,' _ and we had each ward sponsor a booth representing a different country. "Our program consisted of special musical numbers from Germany, Norwary, and Tonga, and our Singing Mothers performed 'One World,' and 'When God Sees Your Garden.' A musical skit entitled 'It's Time for Terry' depicted a mother of six chil: dren shopping in a time store. Her money was twenty-four hours with which she had to decide what was of value and should be purchased with that exchange. "A recipe booklet featuring recipes from the officers and teachers of Relief Society from each of the wards was given to the sisters. Luncheon was served to 620 guests and evening refreshments were served to over 350 working mothers, husbands, and young people. '"'We were privileged to have Sisters Hazel Love, Lenore Gundersen, Fawn Sharp, and Luella Finlinson of the General Board of Relief Society present."' a SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS "TO HEARKEN AND TO OBEY," April 28, 1969 Front row, left to right: Mary Mather; Claudia Christensen; Bessie Allsop; Ellen Johnson; Ellen Geary; Debra Parkinson. Second row, left to right: Myrna Low; Betty Phillips; LuJean Nilson; Wanda Shuldberg; Terry Johnson, Randy Funk; Marian Bischoff; Rula Farrell; Nancy Straatman; Diane Gleed. Selena G. Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The dramatization 'To Hearken and to Obey,' by Luacine C. Fox was presented at our stake leadership meeting. A select group of Singing Mothers presented a lovely song, 'The Virtuous Woman.' 'Stake board members arranged a lovely display table depicting all the phases of the Relief Society program, including a diffusion of instructions coming from the General Authorities, through the General Board of Relief Society to the local officers and to each member.'' NORTHERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, June 13-15, 1969 Left to right: Irma Mortensen, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Rosanna Snyder, First Counselor; Minetta Christensen, Secretary-Treasurer; Mildred Walk, Second Counselor. Sister Mortensen reports: ''We held a three-day Relief Society conference with the theme, 'Treasures of heaven and Earth.' The sisters from the four districts and thirtytwo branches traveled from twenty to 450 miles one way to participate. 'There was an evening of talent display, a morning of bazaars, bake sales, luncheons, lesson reviews, and homemaking demonstrations, and a banquet and program. "Highlighting and culminating the convention was a Sunday morning fast and testimony meeting, with music from the Singing Mothers. Ruth Barton Kimball is the new supervisor of the Northern States Mission Relief Society. 772 ine i ee October 1969 BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT "LET MUSIC FILL THE-EARTH," April 26, 1969 Front row, left to right: Audrey Patterson, chorister, Bannock Stake Relief Society; Florence Panter, pianist; Edsel Prescott, organist. Ann P. Lloyd, President, Bannock Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented the lovely musicale 'Let Music Fill the Earth,' by Lucelle R. Taylor. Narrating was Vivian Simmons, and the Statue of Liberty was portrayed by Donna Harris. "The Singing Mother selections were highlighted by flute accompaniment, piano and vocal solos, violin and vocal duets, girls, children, and male choruses, a Cub Scout chorus, and a male quartet. "'We had much support in this production from the stake and ward officers, and this will be long remembered as an outstanding cultural event in our stake." LIBERTY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HAS GOOD HOME STORAGE PROGRAM Presidents of the wards and branches of Liberty Stake Relief Society, seated, left to right: Cleora Smith, South Harvard Ward; Ruth VanDerMayden, Ninth Ward; Edith Crosley, Harvard Ward; Thelma Olsen, Liberty Ward; Mary Bendsten, Danish Branch; Maalfred Gran, Norwegian Branch; Michi Mano, Dai-Ichi Branch; Catherine Romyn, Eighth Ward. Back row, left to right: Marjorie Shepherd, Liberty Park Ward; Gwynne Smith, Second Ward; Nellie Hansen, stake Homemaking Counselor; Sarah McKee, Education Counselor; Deniece Starich, President. Sister Starich reports: ''We have been carrying forth a home storage program in our stake for several years. We encourage our sisters when shopping to 'buy a bag for themselves and a bag for the shelves.' 'We use the theme 'Plan to Can' regarding that which is in season. The Church cannery may be rented by any group, and they will order the produce or the group may bring its own. This group canned fresh pineapple from Mexico, and we have found that working together unites us in love and sisterhood and greatly aids the program." OLYMPUS STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PERFORM AT CONFERENCE, May 11, 1969 Front row, third and fourth from left: Lucile M. Salisbury, organist, Olympus Stake Relief Society; Carroll B. Smith, chorister. Lola J. Peterson, President, Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers were delighted to have the opportunity of singing at our stake quarterly conference. We deemed it especially appropriate since it was Mother's Day. Eightytwo sisters performed, singing 'The Lord Is My Light,' and 'Prayerful Hour.' " 774 October 1969 SAN DIEGO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY SPONSORS A CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL, April 25, 1969 Presidents of San Diego Stake Relief Society who were honored, left to right: Carolyn Westover, Counselor to the first stake Relief Society President, Mary Christensen who is deceased, Rasmina Price, Counselor to Josie Bay, former member of the General Board; Thora Halgren; Enid Miller, |\da Andersen; Thair Milne, current President. Sister Milne reports: ''We held a cultural arts festival featuring music, art, literature, and drama, to honor our city as it celebrated its 200th anniversary, and to edify and enrich the lives of our sisters. An original pageant was presented which portrayed the part Latter-day Saint women have played in the development of San Diego, ending with a scene honoring each of our past and present Relief Society presidents. 'Music added its grace to the evening in the form of a women's string quartet. There were two original musical scores in the pageant. Over 100 pieces of art work were on display, including many lovely creations of needlework. The creative writing talents of our sisters were displayed through a printed booklet. "Over 350 sisters participated in the festival and more than 700 attended. We feel it was a very edifying event." 776 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 100— Joseph Smith Evaluated Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman strives to strengthen her testimony that Joseph Smith is a Prophet and that The Church of Jesus Christ was restored through him. INTRODUCTION One of the inspired documents of the latter days was written by President John Taylor at the time he was a member of the Council of the Twelve. (D&C 1844 ed.; Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Rev. Ed., p. 855.) During the remainder of this year, we shall have an opportunity to consider' the great truths found in that scripture, Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135. When a man speaks or writes by the Holy Ghost, it becomes scripture—the will, mind, word, and voice of the Lord, "and the power of God unto salvation." (D&C 68:4-5.) When imbued with the Spirit of the Lord a person can know the _ truth uttered by that Spirit. In this manner the truth is revealed and known by the honest in heart. Ultimately, this is the final test of religious truth. (D&C 50:19- 22.) Measured by this standard, the member of the Church may know that Elder Taylor was under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost when he _ penned the document about the martyrdom of Joseph and his brother Hyrum Smith. (D&C, Section eso. ) By his' apostolic calling Elder Taylor was qualified for this work and, also, because he and Elder Willard Richards, later to be a Counselor to President Brigham Young, were with the martyred brothers on June 27, 1844, at Carthage Jail, Illinois. 777 October 1969 JOSEPH SMITH EVALUATED President John Taylor as guided by the Spirit wrote the following about Joseph Smith: Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. (D&C 135:3.) Centuries before Joseph Smith ° was born, Joseph, who was sold into captivity by his brothers, foresaw that the seer of the latter days should be named after him and that his father's name would be Joseph. (2 Ne. 3:15.) Of significance in this prophecy is the Lord's statement about Joseph Smith's work and his appraisal of his faithfulness: And I will give unto him a commandment that he shall do none other work, save the work which I shall command him. And I will make him great in mine eyes; for he shall do my work. (2 Ne. 3:8.) It was the testimony of Joseph of Egypt that his descendant of the latter days would attain an esteemed position in mortal life, for:... A seer shall the Lord my God raise up, who shall be a choice seer unto the fruit of my loins. Yea, Joseph truly said: Thus saith the Lord unto me: A choice seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and he shall be esteemed highly among the fruit of thy loins. And unto him will I give commandment that he shall do a work for the fruit of thy loins, his brethren, which shall be of great worth unto them, even to the bringing of them to the knowledge of the covenants which I have made with thy fathers. (2 Ne. 3:6-7.) (Italics added.) The Prophet Joseph Smith knew that as other prophets were foreordained to their callings, so also he received a divine 778 calling before he was born. On one occasion he said: I suppose that I was ordained to 'this very office in that Grand Council. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 6, p. 364 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) Class Discussion Support your belief in the doctrine of foreordination to callings in this life. GREATNESS AMONG THE PROPHETS The inspired evaluation of Joseph Smith that he has done more, except Jesus, for the salvation of men in this world raises a question as to the position of other prophets of God. Each prophet has attained greatness as he has fulfilled his calling. Special recognition, for example, has been given to the prophet Isaiah about whom Nephi said his soul delighted in his words. (2 Ne. 25:5.) The resurrected Savior told the Nephites on this continent that " great are the words of Isaiah." (3 Ne. 23:1.) Why were Isaiah's words great? Primarily, because he foresaw events of the dispensation of the fulness of times. (Isa. 2: 1-4; 29.) His greatness as a prophet is also evident because he served faithfully the people of his own generation. Another Old Testament prophet Ezekiel was great because he also fulfilled his calling in his day, as well as to foretell events of the future concerning the last days. (Ezek. 37:15-28.) NEW TESTAMENT PROPHETS Peter, John, and Paul ful- filled their missions in honor to the people of the meridian dispensation. Also, each one of them was permitted to see the greatest dispensation, that of the last days. (Acts 3:19-21; Rev. 14:6-7; Eph. 1:9-10.) Although all of the works of the former-day prophets are not known to us, we can see wherein they were great. Their personal ministry was confined, as in the case of Joseph Smith, to a relatively few people, but their influence has been felt through their writings and the significance of their acts in this mortal state. Admittedly, it is difficult to place one prophet above another, for each performs his work in a particular situation. Therefore, one might say that the "greatest" prophet to a people is the living prophet. The principal reason for this belief is due to the opportunity for the living prophet to present solutions to the problems of his day through divine guidance. The prophets who have succeeded Joseph Smith have each met the particular need of his day; so it was with the ancient prophets. JOSEPH SMITH'S GREATNESS Obviously, a prophet must be judged in relation to the time in which he lives. If we believe that Joseph Smith has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, upon what basis may we say it? Bear in mind that it is said that Joseph Smith did a greater work for the salvation of men in this world. This statement rules out consideration § of Adam, certainly one of the Lesson Department greatest of prophets, for his work involved the premortal state, and will involve the future. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 157; D&C 88: 110-15.) President John Taylor apparently had in mind Joseph Smith's accomplishments during mortal hfe. It was not that he was greater than any other person in the plan of salvation, but only that his greatness was reflected in his mortal ministry. What then of Joseph Smith? By virtue of his relationship with other dispensations, and _ the place of the dispensation ushered in by the Prophet Joseph, we shall discover the reasons for his greatness. Our dispensation is the final period in which God will conclude his work for the salvation of men. In addition, it is to contain the truths revealed In past dispensations. This fact was spoken of by both Peter and Paul as the restoration of all things, spoken of by the prophets since the world began. (Acts 3:19-21.) Paul said this period of time would bring together all things God had revealed, consequently, it would be known as the "fulness of times." (Eph. 1:9-10.) Questions for Discussion Because we have the privilege of coming to earth during this final period for the salvation of men, what special responsibilities are ours? What would characterize this dispensation? Not only would this work involve the salvation of the living but also the dead. It was necessary that the Savior offer his atonement for man and_ go 779 October 1969 into the spirit world to initiate the preaching of the gospel to those who died without a knowledge of it. (1 Peter 3:18-20; D&C 128:5.) As far as is known, little work was performed for the dead during the time of the apostles. Few references appear in the New Testament regarding it. (1 Cor. 15:29; Heb. 11:39-40.) As far as the salvation of man is concerned, Joseph Smith's period was to include on a large scale benefits for the dead as well as the living. Class Discussion Why would a Latter-day Saint believe that Joseph Smith has done more for the salvation of men in this world, save Jesus only, than any other man that has ever lived in it? (D&C 135:3.) A REMARKABLE PREDICTION In Joseph Smith's own account of a visit to him by the Angel Moroni, at the age of seventeen, Joseph Smith said that Moroni said:... God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:33.) The fulfillment of this divine prediction was realized in Joseph Smith's life and continues to be fulfilled. Great men have been lauded and condemned by their contemporaries. Abraham Lincoln was denounced by many who thought he was unjust and illiterate, while others considered him a great man of destiny. The same may be said of Joseph Smith. To the unrighteous and prejudiced, he was a 780 subject for persecution. But to his faithful followers he was God's anointed seer. Many, not of his own Church, however, also saw his greatness. One of these wrote for the New York Herald from Nauvoo, Illinois, the home of the saints, this personal description of the Prophet: Joseph Smith, the President of the Church, Prophet, Seer and Revelator, is thirty-six years of age, six feet high in pumps, weighing two hundred and twelve pounds. He is a man of the highest order of talents, and great independence of character, firm in his integrity, and devoted to his religion; in one word he is a man per se as President Tyler would say. As a public speaker, he is bold, powerful, and convincing— possessing both the suaviter in modo and the fortiter in re; as a leader, wise and prudent, yet fearless; as a military commander, brave and determined; and, as a citizen, worthy, affable, and kind— bland in his manners, and noble of bearing. (March 19, 1842.) Concerning the work being donein Nauvoo by the Latter-day Saints, a correspondent of this Same newspaper wrote that the priests and philosophers of the day could well take a lesson from Joseph Smith. Of the Prophet it was said he seemed to have hit the nail exactly on the head, by uniting faith and _ practice—fancy and fact—religion and_ philosophy— heaven and earth, so as to form the term of a new religious civilization, bound together in love and tolerance—in industry and energy—that may _ revolutionize the whole earth one of these days. (January 19, 1842.) FURTHER EVALUATION In support of the evaluation of Joseph Smith as discussed in this lesson, President Taylor gave the following: To seal the testimony of this book and the Book of Mormon, we announce the martyrdom of Joseph Smith the Prophet, and Hyrum Smith the Patriarch. (D&C 135:1.) He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and _ his works with his own blood; and so has his brother Hyrum. In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated! (D&C 135:3.) Does the death and testimony of these two prophets affect the salvation of men in this world? An answer to this question involves an understanding of what President Joseph Fielding Smith, of the First Presidency and President of the Council of the Twelve, has termed the divine law of witnesses. (Doctrine of Salvation Vol. 1, pp. 203-28.) This law was stated by Paul as: In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established. (2 Cor. 13:1.) If we had a perfect record of each dispensation, we would know that there has been more than one witness to testify for the Lord. Methuselah, grandfather of Noah, and Lamech, father of Noah, were righteous men who witnessed with Noah in _ his dispensation. In the Mosaic dispensation, Moses and his brother Aaron served in a similar capacity. We have a much more complete account of the divine law of witnesses in the meridian dispensation. In addition to Jesus, his Father testified of the divine Sonship of the Savior upon several occasions. (John 5:30-33; 8:14-19; 12:26-30; Matt. 3: 15-17.) The twelve apostles were also witnesses, and of these Peter, Lesson Department James, and John received a special witness when they heard the Father's voice and_ conversed with Moses and Elijah. (Matt. 17:1-8.) In our own dispensation there were many witnesses to testify of the Lord. Among these testators was Oliver Cowdery, who served with Joseph Smith as a witness of the restoration of the keys of the priesthood. (D&C 13; 27:12-13; 110.) The Three Special Witnesses to The Book of Mormon and also the Eight Witnesses may also be mentioned as God's witnesses to his truth in the last days. A TESTIMONY SEALED In a special way, however, the principle of witnesses was applied in the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. Hyrum was not only the Patriarch to the Church but also Assistant President of the Church, having taken the place of Oliver Cowdery. The divine law of witnesses is expressed in the New Testament as: For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator. For a testament is of force after men are dead: otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator liveth. (Heb. 9:16-17.) After the martyrdom of these prophets, the Lord revealed to Brigham Young that Joseph Smith had sealed his testimony with his blood " that he might be honored and the wicked might be condemned." (D&C 136:39.) Class Discussion How has the sealing of the martyrs' 781 October 1969 testimony affected the salvation of men in this world?, NON-LDS EVALUATION In the spring of 1844, Josiah Quincy, mayor of Boston and a non-Latter-day Saint, visited the Prophet in the city of Nauvoo. He later published his observations as follows: It is by no means improbable that some future textbook for the use of generations yet unborn will contain a question something like this: What historical American of the nineteenth century has exerted the most powerful influence upon the destinies of his countrymen? And it is by no means impossible that the answer to the interrogatory may be thus written: 'Joseph Smith, the Mormon Prophet.'... The wonderful influence which this founder of a religion exerted and still exerts, throws him into relief before us, not as a rogue to be criminated but as a phenomenon to be explained.... Joseph Smith, claiming to be an inspired teacher, faced adversity such as few men have ever attained, and, finally, forty-three days after I saw him, went cheerfully to a martyr's death. Josiah Quincy concluded his observations by saying: Born in the lowest ranks of poverty, without book-learning and with the homeliest of all human names, he had made himself at the age of thirty-nine a power upon the earth. Of the multitudinous family of Smith, none had so won human hearts and shaped human lives as this Joseph. His_ influence, whether for good or for evil, is potent today, and the end is not yet. I have endeavored to give the details of my visit to the Mormon prophet with absolute accuracy. If the reader does not know just what to make of Joseph Smith, I cannot help him out of the difficulty. I myself stand helpless before the puzzle. (Conference Report, April 1930, pp. 190-92; Figures of the Past by Josiah Quincy, University Press, John Wilson And Sons, Cambridge, Copyrighted 1883.) IMPLEMENTATION Biblical prophets foretold the restoration of the gospel and The Church of Jesus Christ with its priesthood powers. To initiate this work, the Lord raised up Joseph Smith, Jr., foretold by the Old Testament prophet, Joseph of Egypt, as recorded in The Book of Mormon. It was said he would perform the work of salvation appointed him as a choice seer in the Lord's eyes. This modern Prophet was destined to lead the greatest dispensation of the gospel, for he would perform a work for the salvation of the dead as well as the living. His period of time would see the culmination of all of God's work on this earth for the salvation of men. Mighty in its scope and marvelous in its impact upon the souls of men, the work of the dispensation of the fulness of times would eclipse all other gospel periods. Latter-day Saints believe that "Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it." TH29 782 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 4—Labor for That Which Perisheth Not Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE: To remember that throughout one's life one makes eternal choices. When you were little did you read the fairy tales, the legends, and the myths that told of kings and queens, of castles, palaces, and feasts? Did you then dress up in your mother's old dress, make a crown of paper or flowers, and play that you were a queen? Didn't that seem the epitome of all that you could ever want? Was some of that make-believe stardust still clinging to you when you read Mosiah 28:10 and discovered that "... King Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon, for there was not any of his sons who would accept of the kingdom."? Then as you read further, didn't the castles and palaces fade as you saw the king's sons, mighty in faith, humble in spirit, perSuasive in teaching the gospel, bring many souls into the kingdom of God? You remembered, "And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" (D&C 18:16.) Have you ever secretly sympathized with the very rich ruler who having kept the commandments of Moses came to Jesus and asked, "... Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" (Luke 18:18.) Jesus answered him, "... Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me." (Luke 18:22.) And when Jesus saw that he could not, he said, "... How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!" (Luke 18:24.) Have you thought how difficult it would be to sell all you have and give to the poor? The great prophet-leader Nephi had a devoted, faithful brother Jacob who, while on earth, lived worthy to see his Redeemer. This younger prophet taught, "Wherefore, do not spend money for that which is of no worth, nor your labor for that which cannot satisfy... Feast upon that which perisheth not, neither can be corrupted." (2 Nephi 9:51.) 783 October 1969 By. Joining the Church we have made the first great choice in this life of "that which perisheth not.' Each day, each week we make new choices that will determine our future joy or sorrow. Let us consider some of these important decisions: 1. Do we expand our capacity for love and compassion by continually searching to find new ways to help others? 2. Do we follow Jacob's teaching and spend our money for that which perisheth not? HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 4— 3. Do we labor to increase our knowledge, our faith, and our understanding of others? 4. Do we grow in self-discipline so that our anger is schooled, our charity increased, our. Peaceful efforts extended, our enemies forgiven and loved? 5. Do we "... Visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and... Keep... [ourselves] unspotted from the world."? (James 1:27.) 6. Do we plan and live our lives so that we will endure to the end? The good we choose perisheth not. /: / | } '"'"She Considereth a Field and Buyeth It: With the Fruit of Her Hands She Planteth a Vineyard." (Prov. 31:16) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out the woman's a in planning and managing a successful family budget. INTRODUCTION A woman's role as a successful homemaker means more than being a loving companion to her husband and a devoted mother to their children; it also means working with her husband in the management of a well-ordered home. It means helping to establish a pattern of living conducive to the best interests of the family members who dwell in 784 that home. This pattern of living recognizes the goals and objectives that are vital to its well-being. A wise homemaker knows that these goals involve careful planning and management of the family resources. She also knows that this can be best accomplished through the use of a family budget worked out to fit their own special needs, interests, and _ desires. Unless we who are the homemakers are aware of our responsibility in the planning and managing of a_ successful family budget, we will not be able to solve the financial problems which inevitably arise in every household. We need to develop in our family members an understanding of their individual responsibilities by letting them share in the planning and formulating of the budget. We need to show them what it costs the family to live and why it is necessary to set up a plan of procedure whereby we can reach our goals and objectives. OUR PLAN OF PROCEDURE In the homemaking discussion printed in The Relief Society Magazine, October 1966, we learned that in planning any budget, certain procedures usually apply to most families. 1. Estimating family income. With our husbands we should make an appraisal of the family income, which will include take-home pay from wages, regular salary, commissions, and parttime earnings, as well as any revenue from pensions, rental income, dividends, interest, or any additional income which might be forthcoming. 2. Calculating fixed expenditures. We should make our family members aware that there are certain expenditures which must be paid regularly— monthly, quarterly, semiannually, or annually—and that these are fixed or obligatory expenses which take precedence over others. The list of fixed expenditures should include tithing and other Church contnbutions, taxes, housing payments, insurance, and debt. 3. Planning daily expenditures, including incidentals. As housewives we should know that day-to-day Lesson Department living costs offer many opportunities to practice wise spending. Such expenditures include those made fo! Food, household services, clothing. Automobile and other transportation, medical care, personal allowances, family recreation and cultural development, and such variables as differing localities, climates, and nationalities might add to or take from the list 4. Planning savings and emergency funds. We must be aware that every family should make some provision for saving in their financial plan if they are to achieve a sense of security When possible, it should be large enough to cover both emergency funds and long-term goals such as education, missions, vacations, retirement, and other desired attainments. We can help our families to see the wisdom of establishing a regular savings plan, even though it means the renouncing of some immediate desires. Many budget experts warn against trying to be too detailed and penny-counting, a practice which tends to discourage longterm persistence. A too-complicated budget is quickly abandoned. CONCLUSION Wise planning and conscientious effort on the part of all members of the family are required to formulate and carry out a successful family budget plan, but it is the homemakers—the mothers and wives—who really put the plan into action. We can be sure that our husbands will be enthusiastic in their approval and that the other family members will be willing to cooperate. Once it is accomplished, it will bring the income, expenditures, and savings of the family into balance and will result in blessings of lasting benefit and fulfillment to all its members. 785 October 1969 APPLICATION The "Simple Monthly Budget Plan" below might be a helpful teaching aid for each sister to fill out for her own confidential use with her family. (This is a reprint from The Relief Society Magazine, October 1966, pp. 788-89.) Lesson Department March through December are recorded the same as January and February. In the beginning a daily record should be kept and the totals recorded in the form. (A loose. Leaf notebook will serve the purpose.) Most banks and insurance companies provide free budget forms for the asking. A SIMPLE MONTHLY FAMILY BUDGET PLAN DAILY EXPENDITURES 'FOOD HOUSE- |CLOTHING]; CAR |MEDICAL HOLD AND CARE SERVICES TRANSPORTATION EMERSAVINGS | cencies PERSONAL] VARIALLOW- | ABLES ANCES; RECREATION AND OTHER ESTIMATED MONTH INCOME FIXED EXPENDITURES BEFORE | TAKE | TITHING | TAXES| RENT |DEBTS|INSURANCE DEDUC- | HOME AND TIONS PAY FIXED EXPENSES JANUARY FEBRUARY SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 4—Work—a Road to Personal Fulfillment Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lesson 23.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the value of work in meeting the requirements of happiness and of divine admonition. INTRODUCTION Having been introduced to President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. (lesson 1, The Relief Society 786 Magazine, July 1967), we know of his general attitude toward work. We know that he believed in the value of work, that he was introduced to responsibility at an early age and that he liked to work. This lesson develops the idea that to work is following divine admonition, that it is a practical necessity, a privilege, and that it may become an_ enjoyable activity. The general theme applies to all—man, woman, and child. Discussion in this lesson, however, will generally be focused toward work within the home and will focus upon the mother's specific position in introducing the children to one of the great challenges of life. REMEMBER THE STORY Do you remember the story of "The Little Ren Hen'? One version narrates that: One day the Little Red Hen was scratching in the farmyard when she found a grain of wheat. She asked, "Who will help me plant this wheat?" "Not I," said the duck. "Not I," said the cat. "Not I," said the dog. "All right, I will do it myself," said the Little Red Hen. Then she asked successively: "Who will help me cut the wheat?" "Who will help me knead and bake the bread?" To each of these questions she received the same negative reply. When the loaf was baked, savory, and brown, she then asked, "Who will help me eat the bread?" "T will, " said the duck. "T will," said the cat. "TI will," said the dog. The story concludes with this rhyme: Lazy folks must hungry go For they would not help me sow, Neither would they help me reap They had rather rest and sleep. All alone I baked the bread, Lazy folks should not be fed. 787 October 1969 Question for Brief Discussion How would you define work? An international dictionary defines work as "exertion or effort directed to produce or accomplish something." With this definition in mind, the duck, the cat, and the dog, were justified in considering the _ tasks required to produce the loaf of bread as work. And in the story they did not want to work. This story implies that eating the loaf was less effort or, at least, a more desirable activity. This nursery story obviously tries to teach children the idea that work is important and that each one should assume some responsibility in producing the good things of life. What mother has not observed, with amazement, the amount of exuberant energy expended by her children playing jump-therope or the various running and hiding games, who, only a few moments earlier, said they were too tired to sweep out the garage or to wash the dishes? Questions 1. What makes the difference? 2. How important is the mother's attitude in forming the children's reaction to "work" activities? 3. How will knowing that willingness to work and liking to work are characteristics of maturity help a mother teach her children to work? 4. How will this influence her own attitude toward what might otherwise be considered irksome, monotonous housework? How may a mother teach children to see that opportunities for service to others and for personal satisfactions are endless for those who are willing to work? On 788 OLD AS TIME Eden's gate was no sooner closed than man's earthly work began, for Adam was now introduced to the idea that he must work all the days of his earthly life. Among other things spoken by the Lord to Adam are these words: By the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, until thou shalt return unto the ground....(Moses 4:25.) Since thorns and thistles were to be natural obstacles, the implication is that providing the necessities of life from the earth would not be an easy task. Nor has it been throughout the centuries. In calling our attention to this statement of the Lord, President Clark states, "I believe that we are here to work, and I believe there is no escape from it." (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 23.) Being able to direct personal effort toward the achievement of definite goals other than to obtain food and shelter is a characteristic distinguishing the life of man from that of the lower animals. The English poet Milton pays tribute to man and to work in the following poem from "Paradise Lost": When Adam thus to Eve: "Fair consort, the hour Of night, and all things now retire to rest, Mind us of like repose; since God hath set Labour and rest, as day and night, to men Successive; and the timely dew of sleep, Now falling with soft slumbrous weight, inclines Our eyelids: long other creatures all day Rove idle unemployed, and less need rest; Man hath his daily work of body or of mind Appointed, which declares his dignity, And the regard of Heaven on all his ways; While other animals inactive range, And of their doings God takes no account. Of the ways of men the Lord does take account and he has counseled us as to the spending of our precious days and years. A person who will not work, providing he is physically and mentally able to work, may rightly be termed an idler and the Lord has given, in our day, a direct commandment regarding idleness. In the Doctrine and Covenants we read: Now, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them (D&C 68:31-32.) INDISPENSABLE IN COLONIZATION How important is work to the world in which we live? How rewarding can it be to individuals and to groups? President Clark speaks of work as indispensable to pioneer life and cites the struggles of the early members of the Church. From lesson 23 of the 1969-70 Melchizedeck Priesthood course of study we quote from an address given in 1960: A hundred years ago armed mobs plundered, burned, and murdered us. I speak without heartburning or malice and with full charity. Three times we were driven by force Lesson Department of arms from our homes, and all our property that we could not carry on our backs or in our wagons was taken from us. When ninety-five years ago our Prophet-leader was slain by an_ unrestrained local mob and we _ began our westward march over plain and mountain under that genius in leadership, Brigham Young, we moved under our own power, without subsidy, without loan, wished on our way only by the maledictions of those who drove us out from our homes and then appropriated, without payment for it, the property they forced us to leave behind. Arriving in the valleys of the mountains, we planted all our wheat, with enough flour to last only to harvest; our nearest food supply was one thousand miles away, reached only by ox teams; thousands of others were on the way to join us. A pest of locusts came, devouring everything on their way. Famine raised its gaunt frame. Then came the miracle of the gulls, the crops were saved, starvation was beaten back—a miracle as real as any that aided the ancient Israel in her escape from the bondage of Egypt. But even then we lived on short rations of the simplest foods, eked out by wild roots dug from the hillsides. So we struggled on against want and misery; toil and _ hardship were with us daily. But the Church survived; the people prospered. Character endured intact. We took care of our own poor. In times of scarcity neighbors helped one another. Time and time again, we _ passed through the fiery furnace; we came out of it each time, refined, with the dross burned away, re-inspirited, sanctified. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 23.) Experiences, in many ways similar, were encountered by other groups colonizing western America. In fact, pioneering life at all times has taxed the resourcefulness of the people and has required all individuals to work individually and cooperatively in order to survive. Out of their combined efforts, com- 789 October 1969 munities have been built, states and nations have evolved. Class Participation Consider pioneer conditions, briefly. Discuss the need and the willingness to work in order to survive in contrast to the trend toward idleness in times of plenty. WORLD OF DISCOVERY For the individual, work may be a door opening into fields more vast than the mind of man has yet envisioned. Though faith may be the great motivator, work is the spade of discovery, for it is work that makes the dream materialize. An _ intelligent person cannot work in any capacity without learning. To work is to discover. It is through individual effort and application that new vistas are glimpsed, horizons widened, and the ability to accomplish enlarged. Examples of what work has produced and the possibilities of future accomplishment are breathtaking. Class Participation Discuss the following personal statements: 1. I stand in awe when I consider how much intelligent effort goes into producing even one of the innumerable commodities we use in the home, the school, and the shop, from simple electrical and manual appliances to such complex mechanism as is found in the computer or the satellites that man has made to orbit into space. 2. The libraries of the world, taken collectively, house billions of books. They did not create themselves. They are the product of intellectual effort and of manual skill. I am grateful to all the individuals who have been involved in their production. I am a student, and, as I view the 790 stacks of books before me, I realize that books contain much of the best that man has thought and said. I know that ideas and facts contained in them can be mine only if I put forth personal effort to make them mine. At best, only a fraction of the knowledge contained will be transferred to me, a thought which spurs me to better use of my time. 3. The innumerable yards of fabric which one sees in a fabric store are evidence of work already accomplished. Without further labor they constitute mere yardage. With additional work of merchant, designer, and seamstress, the world may be clothed. (Other examples may be suggested.) WORK, AN AID TO EMOTIONAL HEALTH Glen C. Beeley, director of a well-recognized arts and craft institution, has some important things to say about work and a woman's emotional world. She believes that work, especially creative work, can and does perform miracles in the lives of unhappy, frustrated, and even, physically handicapped women. She states: I wish you could see the transformations I see in people. I believe that individuals cannot be truly happy unless they are constructively busy. Although some individuals are more inherently creative, everyone can be creative who is willing to work. Many people naturally find creative ways of expressing themselves and of usefully using their available time. Others, less naturally creative, need to be led to creativity, and, thus, to happiness. They need to feel that they can do things with their hands. This assurance and this accomplishment lead to a degree of creative experimentation and of mental exploration. They think of new or different ways of making the same article. But [concludes the director] it is not the articles of art or of usefulness that are really important, it is what creative work does for the individual. This is most rewarding. Individuals (including older people) should and do sense a personal growth from giving of themselves to others and to objectives. Thus they develop a fineness within themselves and a sensibility to the fineness in others. They learn to appreciate what others also are doing and can do. They need to feel, and they do, that they can, figuratively, "Sail their own ships." The foregoing comments regarding arts and crafts, generally, refer to leisure time activity, although professional status and specific occupations may and sometimes are the result. Many women make special effort to enroll in such classes. They find personal satisfaction in creativity as do women who engage in the homemaking activities of Relief Society. What may we say of the necessary, daily tasks of the homemaker? How useful is this work? How important is the attitude of the wife or mother in relation to this part of the world's work? RELEVANT TO WORK Many thought-evoking statements have been made regarding the need for and the important results of work. From the following statements, select for discussion as you desire and as time may permit: Lesson Department When I go into my garden with a spade, and dig a bed, I feel such an exhilaration and health that I discover that I have been defrauding myself all this time in letting others do for me what I should have done with my own hands. —Ralph Waldo Emerson Idleness and pride tax with a heavier hand than kings and parliaments. —Benjamin Franklin Sucess is better when it's harder to achieve. —Aristotle Things may come to those who wait, but only the things left by those who hustle. —Abraham Lincoln I have no secret of success but hard work. —Edward Turner As an author, people often say to me, "So you write books!" I reply, 'No, I rewrite books." Little can they know how much rewriting an author must do. —Anon Work is next to genius. —J. Reuben Clark, Jr. You cannot be successful at anything and waste your time. —dJ. Reuben Clark, Jr. For Home Doing Implement this lesson by appraising your own attitude toward work. Ask yourself, "Am I depriving myself of specific satisfactions and blessings because I am unwilling to work sufficiently hard to obtain them?' If so, select one needed task, and work! INGENIOUSLY ADEPT Red-plumed cardinals Rapidly trace Symbols in the air, With crimson quills, While quaking aspen interpret Their meaningful messages. —Remelda Gibson 791 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family = _- ——~ $$ a we ee Lesson 3—The Problem of Communication Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Three By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas There is no more sure tie between friends than when they are united in their objects and wishes. —Cicero Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that those who can communicate can work together, and those who can work together make civilization possible. ART "Advice to a Young Artist'? By Honoré Daumier (1808-1879) French, National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., Gift of Duncan Phillips. Painting reproduced in the June 1969 Relief Society Magazine, page 447. Commentary on art selection by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University. Honore Daumier at the age of seven decided to be an artist. To gain background for his chosen field, he frequented the poorer quarters of Paris and haunted the corridors of the Louvre. He studied Rembrandt and Michelangelo, nature, and the manners and customs of his period. Although he is better known as a lithographer and political cartoonist, it has been said that he was one of the greatest painters of the 19th century. Daumier expressed very deep feelings in a spirit of satire and ridicule. His caricatures are without hatred or spite, although they are biting. There is a direct simplicity in the expressions of what he saw and felt. All of his work has social significance. His art was and still is a very direct means of communication of ideas, a universal language. Artists today use art for propaganda purposes just as Daumier did in his time. The painting, ''Advice to a Young Artist,'' is perhaps more mild than many of his works. This is not a portrait of any two particular people but more a generalization of a typical situation in the world of work. We can ail learn from others who go before us, especially if they are willing to share their knowledge with us. In this very commonplace idea, expressed in a simple, earthy manner, one senses a certain kinship between the artist and the common working man, a certain reality that makes the commonplace beautiful when stripped to the bare essentials. None of his works is pretty. All tinsel and glitter have been left out and only simple truth remains. Perhaps this is why many have placed Daumier in the school of realism. All of his works, full of compassion for the downtrodden, are attempts at communicating the unvarnished truth as he saw it. As in all great art, Daumier in his work gives us not merely a photographic likeness of his subject but an interpretation of it in which he communicates what he knows, thinks, and feels. 792 INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS From childhood, many of us have heard that "sticks and stones may break my bones but names can never hurt me." A far more accurate assessment of reality is given in the Apocrypha when we are reminded _ that "the stroke of the whip maketh marks in the flesh, but the stroke of the tongue breaketh the bones." Most physical pain is less excruciating than having someone we love and _ respect speak harshly to us. To feel unloved or unwanted is often more crippling than physical impairment. Perhaps modern _ research rightly emphasizes the role of communication in establishing positive human relationships. Such communication need not be in words—how rarely are our deepest feelings easily translated in speech—but we must use words to discuss non-verbal communication, so the importance of language in communication cannot be minimized. To concede this, however, is not to admit that the _ basic problem in poor communication is failure to convey information clearly. If this is assumed, we focus our attention so totally on methods of communication that we risk losing ends in means. Although it has been popular to assert recently that the medium we use is an integral part of the message we are trying to convey, it probably needs to be said also that an insignificant message belittles any medium that carries it. The word communication originally suggested sharing Lesson Department or making common an idea or an experience. If the idea we want to share can touch a positive chord in another's' background, the chances for successful communication are immeasurably increased. It is when we try to get through to those who do not share our ideals and values that we have extreme difficulty. It is probably not very accurate to speak of a "communication problem" under such circumstances, lest we assume that we need to refine our method rather than examine our beliefs. The selections we have chosen for this lesson make less effort to examine procedures than to assess results. "THE SECRET HEART" In the beginning poem "The Secret Heart" by Robert P. Tristram Coffin the father is hardly conscious of how deeply he is revealing his: love to a half-awake child. But the youngster's identification with his father is so total that he has no difficulty in interpreting the look on his parent's face. As the next to the last couplet suggests, the moment of illumination was not long, but it was enough to light "all about." The result of such a reassuring insight has been a lifetime of happy memories which are symbolized by a brief vision of his father's "secret heart." The tone of this tender poem helps us understand how prepared the boy was for his revelation. The real impact of this moment depends very little on the situation, even though it yields a symbol that is a memora- 793 October 1969 ble one. The kind of fatherson devotion that is evident here inevitably finds its expression. Question for Discussion Why is unqualified devotion difficult to hide? Comment on some of the less obvious ways in which we communicate our identification with that which we love. "ANOTHER APRIL" In "Another April" by Jesse Stuart we touch briefly on a number of communicative levels. The boy understands his childlike grandfather as only a child could. If his youthful candor is disconcerting, he sees without the restraints which experience imposes, and _ he reacts freely and openly, if also superficially. In the relationships of mother and child there are hints that the young boy understands far more than his simple conversation would suggest and that the mother senses this. Her relationship to her father is now a mildly ambiguous one: she must be both mother and daughter. She doesn't let her practical need to care for him destroy her sensitivity to what he has been to her and still is. The grandfather's relationship with the natural world he had seemed to control totally as a young man has become more passive, but possibly more discriminating. In the terrapin, the old man has a natural counterpart, a checkpoint in his renewed intercourse with the world which is the more preclous because it can no longer be taken for granted. 794 Question for Discussion The grandfather seems to have established meaningful relationships with everyone and everything in this story. Why has he been so successful? FROM 'THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST TABLE"' In this short essay Oliver Wendell Holmes helps us see that "full" communication may not be "good" communication. If we try to share sacred feelings with those who are not prepared to respect them, we may lend ourselves to grievous exploitation. A man or a woman is often as vulnerable as an open wound to a marriage partner. In our awareness of the totality of relationship that a good marriage demands, we must also be aware that there is no other human relationship that should ask so much. Letting down restraints in an attempt to understand associates is neither an automatic route to self-enlightenment or a guarantee of better inter-personal relationships. Limits of taste and self-respect should inhibit the intimacies we share. Confession is not a shortcut to that communication which is earned by trust, rooted in similar commitment, and justified by joint responsibility. Question for Discussion Why are we tempted to give keys to our "side-doors'" to those who might not use them appropriately? "CAN YOU GET ALONG WITH YOUR IN-LAWS?" In his popular version of a careful research study, "Can You Get Along With Your In-Laws?" Edward Fales provides persuasive evidence that all communication problems with inlaws appear to yield to loving acceptance by all concerned. The lists of "do's" and "don'ts" he provides are obviously the result of much experience, but, as he himself suggests, the "one greatest lesson" in the Cornell survey he is reporting on is that people who refused to think of their relatives as "in-laws" but only as "members of our family" were able to establish warm, happy relationships with them. Question for Discussion How can we prepare our own sons and daughters to realize that, in marrying, they marry a family as well as a person? "MARK TWAIN'S FAMILY LETTERS" The letters exchanged by Mark Twain and his wife, Livy, are difficult to match in all literature for tender concern and sensitivity to one another. Each almost aches with the desire to understand and help. Mark found it difficult to believe, and Livy was often embarrassed by his lack of taste. She helped him on both counts, some modern critics notwithstanding. Mark aided a gently spoiled child, who took herself very seriously, turn into a resourceful, stimulating woman. In these remarkable letters there is not only growth but a truly notable desire on the part of both to match that ideal that each has of the other. It Lesson Department is comforting to see how effective words, lovingly chosen, can be in encouraging personal development and fostering marital harmony. Excerpts from two letters follow: My dear, dear Livy: November 28, 1868 I do love, love, love you, Livy! My whole being is permeated, is renewed, is leavened with this love, and with every breath I draw its noble influence makes of me a better man. And I shall yet be worthy of your priceless love, Livy. It is the glad task of my life—it is the purest ambition and the most exalted that ever I have known, and [I shall never, never swerve from the path it has marked out for me Mark had early found that Livy was careless in her spelling. Up to this point he hadn't teased her about it, but he can't resist in talking to her about his sister: My sister is a good woman, familiar with grief, though bearing it bravely & giving no sign upon the surface; & she is kind-hearted, void of folly or vanity, perfectly unacquainted with deceit or dissimulation, diffident about her own faults, & slow to discover those of others. She isn't such a gem as you; (by a long shot) & neither is any other woman, but then she is a very, very excellent woman anyway. You'll like her, Livy— she don't seem to spell worth a cent. You see she spells cow with a K. And she has spelled "tripped" with only one p, & she puts only one t in "delighted," & only two s's in "expression," I can stand those little blunders well enough, but I do hate to see anybody spell John with a G. I look upon that as perfectly awful. I notice that you always spell John with a G.—Now forgive me, Livy, darling—you know I wouldn't poke fun at you to save a man's life if I thought it would wound you. I don't care a straw how you spell, Livy dear—I hardly ever notice when you make a mistake—& bless you I am just as proud of you as if you could 795 October 1969 beat the Unabridged dictionary spelling. It would be a pity indeed if I presumed to criticize your spelling—I who am sown as thick with faults as you are with merits, & shining virtues, & beautiful traits of character; & yet you have found it in your heart to take me just as I am & lift me up & bless me with your priceless love—I never can be your critic, my loved and honored Livy. Question for Discussion How much do you think the repeated assertions of love by Mark Twain and his wife actually contributed to that love? With "Neighbor Rosicky" we conclude our discussion of communication on a highly encouraging note. As the ideals and values of the characters in this fine story come together, effective communication flourishes. Although, Anton Rosicky and his wife, Mary, have worked out most of their adjustments before this account begins, the series of flashbacks, by which part of this story is told, lets us see some of the circumstances that aided their developing unity. It is important to note that years of marriage have not blunted the Rosickys' sensitivity to each other's whims: Anton caters to his wife's sweet tooth, and she has something hot ready for him when he returns from town. Real marital harmony, however, is not built on indulgence. Shared principle is at the base of the Rosickys' strength. Perhaps this is best exemplified in the scene near the end of section two. As the creamery agent tries to persuade them to sell him their cream, Mrs. Rosicky declares emphatically that 796 she would rather "put some color into my children's faces than put money into the bank." The agent merely turns to Mr. Rosicky to get the real decision, knowing that it is usually the husband's_ word that really counts among the newly emigrated families with whom he does business. "I guess we'll do like she says," said Rosicky. The developing relationship of Polly to her father-in-law is possibly the key to this story. Here we have concentrated many of the forces that are supposed to block real communication: Polly is not a recent immigrant; Rosicky is. Rosicky is old; Polly is young. Polly is gregarious, Rosicky is not. Polly is a daughter-in-law. It takes a rather dramatic crisis to reveal the depth of Rosicky's understanding of and love for Polly and her own "tender heart." In the few minutes that Rosicky and his daughter-in-law share during his heart attack, all barriers that had seemed to inhibit communication between them are swept away. In realizing how much her father-inlaw loves her, Polly tells him of her expected, child before letting anyone else know. In finding out how tender and capable Polly is, Rosicky sees through the facade of sophistication she had erected between them and knows that she will be the kind of wife Rudolph needs. Question for Discussion Why is Rosicky so effective in bringing out the best in everyone he meets? Like to do grape juice — but hate the mess? BRISTLECONE PINE You, Bristlecone! You made it! Alone on the rim of sky You defy danger. Bent under lightning lash Nothing can break you. | know your kin: People grizzled and old, Glorious and tough, Their rough growth, not beautiful, TUTTI-FRUTTI But treasured, Measured against disaster And not found wanting. Now you can have beautiful, clear, concentrated juice with a minimum of effort and absolutely no mess. The no-work juicer — is the answer for you. —Joanna Brown For more information contact: Greta Ashdown 612 East Pheasant Way Bountiful, Utah 84010 Phone 295-1005 Nottingham ace Cablecloths Introducing a wonderful, unique lace cloth, in the finest lace available, this is the ARUNDEL CASTLE lace tablecloth obtainable as a cloth or bedcover in white or ecru. 50" x = 75" $12.00 72" x 90" $18.00 72" x 100" $20.00 108" x 100" $23.00 Napkins to match $ 7.00 per half 16W" x 16¥2"' dozen In the Arundel Castle cloth there are 46 miles of cotton and it required six months work to design and draft this masterpiece. ALSO introducing the Kenilworth Castle lace tablecloth 58" x 78" $6.50 | ec, fone Leach and Tooley 70" Round $7.50 65 Mill Road Newthorpe Our cloths and bedcovers will be Nottingham, England found gracing the homes of the discriminating homemakers everywhere. 797 October 1969 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours CD HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK October 12th-26th ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26th-January 2nd via San Francisco or via San Diego cm Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Learn a Career with a future Rose Elder. Ada Mortensen We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved Send now for P our brochure 2 ry » ® 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-_.55 Zone5 ___-..75 Zone3 ____..60 Zone6 _-_. - 85 Zone4 __._ _.65 Zone7 ___-_-95 Zone8_._- -1.05 DESERET. Pp PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892, t presley MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers"' ''Choir Directors'' \ Cleneper SX We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos Instruments And Supplies Come in and acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 798 A special offer to Relief Society members — Lowest price ever! We had to order a tremendous quantity from Vanguard records to make this choralsymphonic masterpiece available to members of the Church at this low price. We want every family to thrill to this inspiring work about the Book of Mormon. A"\ ts VANGEARD ol Li dle us LEROY J ROBERTSON Oratorio UTAH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA hy hen my el LEROY J. ROBERTSON'S Oratorio from the BOOK OF MORMON MAURICE ABRAVANEL, CONDUCTING THE UTAH SYMPHONY AND CHOIR "The most significant liturgical work of this generation." New York Herald Tribune "One of the more inspired compositions, it's top drawer l e Billboard "A great musical composition, and Vanguard, producers of the / f the most exacting recordings released today, do their enviable y as reputation proud." Harold Lundstrom, Deseret News "The only significant commercially recorded work in the his- (WE CAN'T REORDER tory of the Church." Dr. Lowell Durham AT THIS LOW PRICE) 98 including postage and mailing in the USA Order several for Christmas gifts, weddings, anniversaries and birthdays.: Utah Symphony Orchestra $ 55 West First South Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Please send. Recordings of "Oratorio from. The Book of Mormon at $2.98 each. $ is ¢ enclosed. [] Monaural [] Stereo ° Name. Ee. Address. City State Zip. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Sharing the Good Things of Life... Family happiness is sharing things together... Secure in the knowledge that all members of the family are adequately protected against life's uncertainties. Your Beneficial Life Consultant takes pride in serving your life insurance needs... Including your annual "life insurance checkup" to meet your growing and changing needs. There are new growth opportunities for you... With Beneficial Life Insurance. BENEFICIAL LIFE sane Company Salt Lake City, Utah M Lz (@) < mM Es w mM A - W fe)) WO 
