
The Relief Society Magazine AUGUST 1969 uh wre —— \ od 7 in ri A ge tt MUP eS aii The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: CLIMATE FOR LILIES There is a climate for lilies—in the tomorrows, In a plain, in the fertile loams of the future, In the gray bestowal of rain and intermittent sun, Lavish on the plain. There will be the pale burgundy of buds, The bloom with its trilogy of petals, Its triumvirate of gold. There is that next of summers, With trine of dreams and gold of hopes, And pale, pure satin Spilling gold from heart of gold. Though wind is a wall between, listen... A plea on the prairie strives Over wood fences weathered to pewter, Along the sea with its green, curling leaf of wave: After the winter of want There is a climate for lilies In tomorrow with its tool in hand And a long road leading there. —Dorothy J. Roberts Bernkastelkues on the Mosel River, Germany Transparency by Three Lions Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Sego Lily in the Desert Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 | have read the serial ''Welcome the Task'' by Michele Bartmess (concluded in the June Magazine) and enjoyed it very much. | have also enjoyed seeing the lovely poems by Pearle M. Olsen (see the Magazine for April and June 1969, and other issues). Sister Olsen's poetry gives me inspiration to keep writing myself. Wilma Morley Despain, Centerfield, Utah | would like to tell you how much | have enjoyed my year's subscription to the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. | have been a member of the Church abouf two years. | am happy that my husband has renewed my subscription to the Magazine, and | hope | don't miss any of the wonderful stories and articles in the future. | first became acquainted with the Magazine by receiving a copy from a Latter-day Saint woman, and now | am always waiting for the next issue to come. | have never enjoyed any Magazine as much as | have this one. Jean Smith, Le Roy, Illinois Welcome Relief Society Magazine! How | have missed you the past three months. Not your fault, | know, but what a joy it was to see you back in my mail box again and to know that once more my friend had arrived—this time three together. How wonderful our membership in Relief Society is. How blessed we are as wives and mothers to have the privilege of walking beside the priesthood of God. How good it is to be guided by the Magazine. | enjoyed the article on the new Giant System in genealogical research. Too often this work is left to a later date. To bring it to life out of the Magazine can help us to be mindful of our callings as missionaries for our dead. | find great joy in doing this work (see the Magazine for March 1969). Alvina Shore, Solihull, Warwickshire, England Thanks so much for The Relief Society Magazine. -I always enjoy it and the lessons it gives to us. | want to thank you especially for the story ''Mama and the Teddy Bear'' by Lael J. Littke, in the April issue. | am also very hard-headed about accepting help from others, and since reading this story | have been striving to overcome this fault. With the inspiration received from this story, and much help from my Heavenly Father, | feel that | am making progress. It has been a wonderful experience learning to receive, and | thank the Magazine and Sister Littke for helping me to develop this quality. Janie Cooks, Kansas City, Missouri The Relief Society Magazine has been a source of inspiration and aid to many of our young members. Many are attending Relief Society for the first time. We feel the greatest gift one could give a loved one away from home is a subscription to this gem of a Magazine. The articles are adaptable to all situations and needs. Margaret Perry, President, Junction City Branch Relief Society, Junction City, Kansas The reason | am writing is because | have in my hands a copy of The Relief Society Magazine for January 1968 which was given me by Elder Winston Palmer. As | thumbed through the Magazine | marveled at the rich reading material, the recipes for the kitchen, the stories and reports of activities provided for the sisters of Relief Society. Elder Arturo Arroyo, Los Ralos, Provincia de Tucuman, Argentina 562 

The Relief Society Magazine 
volume 56 August 1969 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 

Contents
Special Features 564 The Law of Tithing LeGrand Richards 570 Literary Contest Announcements 1969 573 |-dentity—Who You Are Lillian Y. Bradshaw 582 Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed Acting Secretary-Treasurer Fiction 584 The Weather Report A. Dee Applegate 590 In the Way They Should Go Marilyn McMeen Miller 603 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 3 Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 562 From Near and Far 579 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 580 Editorial—Leisure for Oneself Marianne C. Sharp 582 Irene Cannon Lloyd Resigns From the General Board 583 Notes to the Field—The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet 609 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 578 Can We Afford Not to be Happy? Celestia J. Taylor 596 Hobby Feature—Siddye B. Smith and Mary Louise Asay 598 A Pretty and Practical Use for the Lowly Washtub Edythe K. Watson 600 Recipes From the Past—a Box Full of Memories Betty Mazzacano Lesson Department 617 Spiritual Living—Events Associated With the Second Coming of Christ Roy W. Pees, 623 Visiting Teacher Message—The Power of Example Alice Colton Smith 624 Homemaking—''She Perceiveth That Her Merchandise is Good: Her Candle Goeth Not Out by Night.'' Celestia J. Taylor 626 Social Relations—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 2 Alberta H. Christensen 631 Cultural Refinement—The Role of Education Bruce B. Clark Poetry Climate for Lilies, Dorothy J. Roberts 561; Mountain Names, Vesta N. Fairbairn 568; To Beauty, Margaret B. Jorgensen 569; Roadside Moment, Summer, Katherine F. Larsen 572; Sarah, Rosemond Purviance 577; Service, Bessie Decker 578; Six of Us, Maxine Jennings 583; Patch Quilt, Hazel Loomis 589; Building a Home, Mary C. Clough 597; Night Fall, Margaret Read 599; Dandelion Alchemy, Norma A. Wrathall 602; Stay, Leora Larsen 608; At the Piano, Bette Saxton 638; Bright Prelude, Margaret B. Shomaker 639. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

563 Tithing Elder LeGrand Richards Of the Council of The Twelve Apostles:. Ss. 4 Dear Relief Society Sisters: I have been asked to discuss with you the Lord's law of tithing and in doing so, I want to bear my testimony to the truth of this principle. Having served as a branch president, three times as a ward bishop, once as a stake president, twice as a mission president, and fourteen years as the Presiding Bishop of the Church, I have had much to do with tithing records, and I am. Convinced that the Lord has not forgotten his promise that if his people would return unto him, he would return unto them. THE LORD'S LAW OF FINANCE It seems that the Lord had two major objectives in mind in giving to his Church the law of tithing in these Latter-days: First: The most equitable manner of financing his Church, for the burden is distributed according to one's ability to pay, the penny of the widow being equal to the gold piece of the rich man. Second: To test the faith of his people, obedience to the law of tithing being accompanied by a promised blessing. Hence, it is the Lord's law of blessing his people. The Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith this revelation at Far West, Missouri, July 8, 1838, in answer to his supplication: 564 O Lord, show unto thy servants how much thou requirest of the properties of thy people for a tithing: Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require all their surplus property to be put into the hands of the bishop of my Church in Zion, For the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church. And this shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people. And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord. Verily I say unto you, it shall come to pass that all those who gather unto the land of Zion shall be tithed of their surplus properties, and shall observe this law, or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you. And I say unto you, if my people observe not this law, to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of Zion unto you. And this shall be an ensample unto all the stakes of Zion. Even so. Amen. (D&C Section 119.) THE PURPOSE AND USE OF TITHING While the Saints were attempting to establish Zion in the land of Missouri, they followed this requirement as given by the Lord and placed all their surplus property in the hands of the bishop of his Church in Zion. Since that time they have endeavored to comply with the "standing law" given "unto them forever." And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord. (D&C 119:4.) In this revelation, the Lord indicated the purpose for which the tithing shall be used: For the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church. (D&C 119:2.) The Lord further directed who _ Shall be responsible to dispose of the tithing: it [tithing] shall be disposed of by a council, composed of the First Presidency of my Church, and of the bishop and his council, and by my high council; and by mine own voice unto them, saith the Lord.... (D&C Section 120.) The Law of Tithing In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland Ohio, September 11, 1831, the Lord made very plain the importance of observing the law of tithing: Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming. (D&C 64:23.) How could one's conscience help but burn within him upon the "coming of the Son of Man," if he realized that he had made no contribution to the expense of establishing God's kingdom in the earth, especially when he came to a realization that all he has he obtained from the Lord, for he created the earth and the fulness thereof, and gave us our lives and our being upon this earth, with a promise that we might "inherit the earth" eternally, if we are faithful. Should we, then, not be willing to pay something for such an inheritance? It is not uncommon for a man in this life to pay money for ten to twenty-five years to purchase a small plot of ground for his use while he lives upon the earth. Should he be less interested in acquiring an eternal inheritance? PAYMENT OF TITHING DEVELOPS FAITH The Lord has always understood that to ask one to surrender, as evidence of religious faith, part of what he has acquired of this world's goods, requires a great measure of faith in obedience. Therefore, in order to develop and test the faith of his 565 August 1969 children, the law of sacrifice has been given unto them even when the Lord did not require their gift for the financing of his Church. Take, for example, Cain and Abel—to them was given the law of sacrifice:... Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering: But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? And why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? And if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door.... (Gen. 4:3-7.) The Lord did not need the fruit of Cain's land or the firstlings of Abel's flock, for they were burned as an offering unto the Lord, but Cain and Abel needed to make this sacrifice to prove their love of God and their faith in him. A careful reading of this text will indicate that Abel's heart was right so he brought "the firstlings of his flock, and the fat thereof," while Cain's offering was made as Satan commanded. (See P. Of G. P., Moses 5:18.) Hence, "the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering: But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell," and darkness entered his heart, and he slew his brother, Abel. Let us now consider Jesus' experience with the rich. Young man: 566 And behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life. And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, that is, God: but if thou wilt enter into life keep the commandments. He saith unto him, Which?... (Matt. 19:16-18.) Then Jesus enumerated most of the Ten Commandments, to which the young man replied:... All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet? Jesus said unto him, /f thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions. (Matt. 19: 20-22.) It should be noted that the rich young man asked: "What good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?" Then it was that Jesus told him to keep the commandments. When the young man informed him that he had done this from his youth, Mark tells us that "Jesus beholding him loved him." (Mark 10:21.) How wonderful! Jesus loves every man who keeps the commandments, but Jesus tried to teach him the law of perfection, so in answer to the young man's further question: "What lack I yet?" Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions. (Matt. 19:22.) In this experience, the Savior taught the rich young man that he should be ready to sacrifice all he had, including his time, and follow Jesus in order to obtain perfection. The gospel of Jesus Christ, as restored to the earth in these latter-days, would not be perfect did it not provide all the requirements for our Father's children to reach perfection, for this is what Jesus taught: Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. (Matt. 5:48.) Our consideration of the experience of the rich young man will better enable us to understand this teaching of the Master: No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. (Matt. 6:24.) Abel chose to serve the Lord, "and the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering." Cain apparently, in his heart, had greater feeling for Mammon, and his offering was not accepted. The rich young man could not part with his earthly possessions, thus exercising his right of choice, and "he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions," thus evidencing the fact that he chose to serve Mammon rather than God, thereby proving that he could not live the law of perfection which Jesus attempted to teach him. The Church of Jesus Christ provides an opportunity for all men to express their choice. Jesus made this plain: The Law of Tithing Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? Or, What shall we drink? Or, Wherewith shall we be clothed? (For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. (Matt. 6:31-33.) THE LAW OF TITHING IN ANCIENT ISRAEL The law of tithing was observed by the prophets of Israel. Abraham paid tithing to Melchizedek: For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him; To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem, which is, King of peace; Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils. (Heb. 7:1-2, 4.) The Lord gave this commandment to the children of Israel on Mount Sinai: And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is the Lord's: it is holy unto the Lord. (Lev. 27:30.) Thou shalt truly tithe all the increase of thy seed, that the field bringeth forth year by year. And thou shalt eat before the Lord thy God, in the place which he shall choose to place his name there, the tithe of thy corn, of thy wine, and of thine oil, and the firstlings of thy herds and of thy flocks; that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always. (Deut. 14:22-23.) 567 August 1969 Thus the purpose was then as it is now: "that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always." And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of Israel brought in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine, and oil, and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of all things brought they in abundantly. (II Chron. 31:5.) Honour the Lord with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase. (Prov. 3:9.) Jacob promised a tenth of all the Lord gave him: And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee. (Gen. 28:22.) The sons of Levi were appointed to receive the tithes: And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham. (Heb. 7:5.) OPPOSITION TO THE LAW OF TITHING IN MODERN TIMES When the Latter-day Saints first taught the law of tithing as a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ, they were opposed by clergy and laity alike, on the grounds 'that tithing belonged to the law of Moses, which was fulfilled in Christ, but that it was not a part of the teachings of the New Testament. It is clear, however, that Jesus taught that they should not neglect the payment of their tithes: Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. (Matt. 23:23; see also Luke 11:42.) Opposition, however, has now ceased and many of the churches have attempted to adopt the law of tithing with questionable results. We know that tithing belongs to the gospel of Jesus Christ, for, as we have already indicated, the Lord gave this principle unto his Church by revelation to his prophet of this dispensation, to "be a standing law unto them forever." oS) MOUNTAIN NAMES For mountain flowers, trees, and birds We need the world's most lovely words. Brodiaea, lilies, gentians, clover Are like a song to linger over. Tamarack, fir, and cedar... These Are sounds that label snow-line trees. Flickers, warblers, chickadees, And jays have winged names that please. For mountain flowers, trees, and birds We need the world's most lovely words. 568 —Vesta N. Fairbairn Evening Near Meeker, photo by Will = _—o— * ' 6 BEAL In the eye of the beholder, Beauty is; And truth—her twin— Returns the gaze. Then love, in growing bolder, Mirrors joy— And fulfillment sanctifies Her days. What, then, a poet's fate? Respond, interpret—and create —Margaret B. Jorge oe, sae Tee S: - ee acne re ~~ ce Literary Contest Announcements 1969 The Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board will be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. The Relief Society Poem Contest The Relief Society Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1969. Prizes will be awarded as follows: ist prize. ----------_=— $40 Second prize ------------ $30 Third prize -------------- $20 Prize poems will be published in the April 1970 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 570 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement ts to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. That it has'never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. S. £9 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, _ all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. Literary Contest Announcements 1969 In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax ao of 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1969. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. BS The Relief Society Short Story Contest The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1969 opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1969. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize-..----------- $75 Second prize ------------ $60 Third prize - ------------ $50 The three prize-winning stories will be published in the April 1970 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. Also, the General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board— who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement ts to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) 571 August 1969 c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1969. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest. 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. FZ ROADSIDE MOMENT, SUMMER Direr the artist etched the growing world As few have paused to see it... Once, Halted by a roadside, | looked out level and deep into his summer world—at blade, stem, blossom, pod, leaf, Whorled and curved, planed and shaped, Divided, yet intricately twined and curled, (Each one an entity individually rising) Diversity in a random plat So myriad, the eye seeking thought by thought For reason, was dazzled by the shades Of light given back from so subtle a variance Of delicate greens. —And these were weeds! Never, no never before had | seen Such wonders springing in so small a space... Great Moses once, in a burning bush, Saw God... | too have looked, and marveled In my small way, at his gifts of grace! 572 —Katherine F. Larsen Who You Are Lillian Y. Bradshaw w At the circus, the lithe tightrope walker gracefully climbed | the pole. With breathless excitement we watched him test the wire. A hush fell upon every lip as with slippered feet he glided along the wire—one cautious step after another—his balance measured by every thought and movement of his body. A slip here, a slip there, a quick bend of the body far to the left and then quickly to the right—we gasped with relief as he regained his balance once again to move | swiftly forward. And though we sat taut on the bench below, inside we were keenly aware we were taking every step with him. Now the goal but a few steps more—joyfully and with obvious relief we all exclaimed "Hurrah!" as the platform on the other side was reached in safety. And so it is with children. Some seem to be thus blessed as they enter in on this tightrope life—well slippered, testing each step, seemingly gifted with a balance all their own. And though they slip to one side or the other and we hold our breath, they always seem to know how to right themselves. It is with excited joy and anticipation we see them perform. And many are the hurrahs. | And then there are_ those children who enter as though wearing hiking boots, and act as the clown who performs clumsily—slipping, sliding, arms and * & y eS. Er. Ye legs askew. We are at times caused to laugh, yet when we see this young one lose his balance our hearts reach out and achingly we ask ourselves "Oh, what can I do?" "What can I say?" "How can I help, don't you know how important you are?" And then he falls into the net of life and walks about with each step sinking in that net to 573 Be Re PRY A Se. August 1969 the height it was before the step was taken—not knowing quite how to get out. And few are the hurrahs. Again, we are caused to ask searchingly of ourselves "What could I have done to prevent the fall?" And then I imagine myself having a rod to hold out for him and others to take hold of until they find firm ground again., While my older children were yet quite young, I taught many Mutual Improvement Association classes and became aware of the fact that those young people whose step seemed so sure seemed always to carry the balance rod with the words emblazoned on it: I know where I came from! I know who I am! I know where I'm going! And I marveled. Often these young people were either converts or children of recent converts to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day -Saints. And it often puzzled me and caused me to ponder "How, when my children are born under the covenant—how can [I instill in them this same strength?" And a prayer would be uttered in my heart. "Oh, Father in heaven, what can I say now while my children are yet pliable and young that will emblazon on their rods who they are and how important they are to themselves and that what they do really counts." They must learn from mistakes, I know, but what can I do now that will give them that innate sense of balance that will help them right themselves as 574 they slip and slide along the tightrope of life? | Many years have passed since that prayer was answered. Enough years that in looking back I can now see how it was answered—so subtly and _ yet with such wisdom that I am caused to marvel at the simplicity. It all began in sacrament meeting as the speaker—a young woman—told of her conversion to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and of the great joy she felt, while relating the loss of family, friends, and home—all that had been dear to her before. We felt tears sting our eyes and wondered if we really appreciated being born into the Church. How could we be so lucky? Lucky? Was it luck or had someone paid such a price for us once? We determined as a family to trace back all our genealogical lines and find the one in each line to whom the gospel had been preached first. What had it cost each one to accept the truth? Was it difficult? What an adventure! We divided into four teams—each team determined to trace one of their grandparent's lines. I had most of the histories put away—somewhere. Others we found through grandparents and relatives. I purchased a large Miultigeneration Pedigree Chart, and we began writing in all the progenitor names and the dates we could find. The sheet was large enough (25 x 20 inches) so that all names could be seen at once. Here we did something quite by chance but which made all the difference to the entire evening. We left the first line unnamed —Blair's name was on line 2 and mine on line 3. The evening of July 24th, the anniversary of our pioneers coming into the Valley was the date 'we set aside as a family to disclose what we had found. The interest was as high as if we had been working on a_ Sherlock Holmes mystery. I can remember the evening we gathered to disclose all we had found. We placed the pedigree chart in the middle of the floor and then as story after story was told a hush descended upon the room. With interest each watched the red check placed by that particular person's name on the chart. We found that most of the red checks appeared under the heading "second greatgrandparents" some four lines away from that first unnamed line. But whose name would be put on that first line they kept wondering? ' Many were the stories told of bravery before mobs, trials of faith of families who had had to part because of lack of money so some could travel to Zion and then had worked hard so those left behind could follow and all be together again. Stories of the youngster left alone when his parents died crossing the plains, stories of the mother keeping a family together as the husband went on his mission. And then it all became very real as they heard the story of Sarah Jane Richards—a young girl just about their age. The story told how she and her girl friend went to a Latter-day Saint Identity—Who You Are meeting in Carmarthen, South Wales, about 1848 with the intent of making fun. As _ they listened to the two missionaries, Sarah Jane believed what was said. After a few more meetings, she told her father she wanted to be baptized. He became very angry and tried many ways to get her to give up the new religion. But she could not—she knew it was true. Her friends threw rocks at her. With tears and heartbreak she was finally forced to leave home without money, clothes, or any other belongings except what she was wearing. She walked eighty miles to a coal mining town where two married sisters lived. When she got there her shoes were worn off of her feet and her feet were bleeding. One of the sisters took her in and she started to work in the coal mines, where girls were employed to shovel the coal. While working there, her hand was crushed in an accident. It was so seriously injured that the local doctor advised amputating it. She begged him to delay the operation and he granted one day. She had complete faith she could be healed if the elders could be found, and so prayed constantly for them to come. That night they came, telling her she literally prayed them there. They administered to her and their combined faith was so efficacious that when the doctor arrived expecting to operate, he marveled at the change and decided the operation was unnecessary. After working hard and saving every possible penny, she sailed alone for America. This was only the 575 August 1969 beginning. With joy she gave her testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel as she had been led to it. Now there came a feeling over the whole room. A soft, warm, penetrating feeling. Our belonging to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints one of luck? No! It had been hard earned by someone who was willing to be lonely, by many who had sacrificed all they had for the precious gift of the gospel. This then led to many more storles of great-grandparents, and grandparents, and their struggles to remain faithful—enduring heartache and disappointments. And then we as parents bore testimony of times of spirit when we had had to decide which path to take. Ever the stories brought the lifeline closer to that first empty line. 576 And now they knew that each one of them would place his own name at the head of the entire sheet. Each generation had remained faithful and now they were the link to keep it unbroken. "Now," we said, as we took our youngest daughter by the hand, "Sue, as you look at this sheet pretend that another sheet just like it is extending into the future on the other side to the left. Here you are as the one with lines spreading from you not only from the past but also to the future—you alone hold both lines. Someday you will be the mother with children and then the grandma. Will your children look back on just such a sheet and have pride and gratitude in their hearts as you have right now for them, because you made the right decisions? They, too, will bless you because you chose to marry in the temple so they could be born under the covenant. Now you know who you are. You know how important you are. You know that what you do now is important." One by one, we took each child through the same route, mentioning perhaps different areas in which they might have to make a major decision—always repeating at the end the same, "Now you know who you are." They stood alone and they felt responsibility weigh importantly heavy upon their own actions. No longer were they to go off and claim it didn't matter what they did. They held hands with the eternities—past and _ future—and became the link between where they had come from and where they were going. Now they knew, and we knew they knew who they are, and it gave purpose to them to seek out why they are here. Looking only to the past to the deeds accomplished by ancestors can bring a shallow, dangerous false pride. But when they see themselves as a definite part of the future, it brings to immediate focus their own responsibility now. Major decisions—such as the use of drugs or whether going on a mission is important, or what to do with free time in the service of our country, or whom to marry—do not come in one great decision. Such decisions are festered or cured with that cautious tested step forward one at at a time. It is the small slips to the right or the quick one to the Identity—Who You Are left—the decisions which would unbalance my tightrope walker— that I want to reinforce and reinforce again so as to keep that line taut as he carries his own balance rod. With a slack line there can be no sure footing. It has been only within recent years I have been made aware how that prayer was answered. For now my children are old enough that by its fruits it has been tested. Time and time again I have used it and have seen it work on young and old. A subtle way to help them strengthen their own decisions when temptation would seem so_ powerful as to make them sway. When, with small voice or crying out inside, they ask _ themselves, What does it matter? Who cares? It's my life! SS SARAH | had not much to give to her | loved Save love itself, And that was borne in trailing clouds of sand And dust that followed in our stormy way Behind the ceaseless, toiling caravan Wherein she bore her son in winter's years. Her face so fair that ever as we went Did stir the winds of envy, But she clung to me As vines enforce the walls they hold. When she left, the tears | could not bear To see her shed, Washed down the river Of an old man's heart. My Sarah, | shall hold your hand again And walk to music of the camel bells Along another road that goes between The constant fountains Of eternal wells. —Rosemond Purviance 577 Can We Alford; Celestia J. Taylor Not to He | vem: s General Board of Relief Society Happy? M Happiness is an abstract quality difficult to define because it has sO many meanings; paradoxical in nature because it is present in the least expected places and absent where it appears most likely to be found; elusivé because, like the butterfly, it alights wherever it so inclines, but escapes the grasp of those who seek to capture it. It is 4 quality much to be desired, the easiest, yet the most difficult to attain. One of the expressions familiar to us and, therefore, often quoted: "Men are that they might have joy," contains both the secret and the key to the attainment of this most precious commodity. Just being here on this earth does not guarantee us happiness, but it offers us the possibility of attaining it. Its possession, as that of any other worthwhile goal, is dependent upon the laws which govern it, and wherever there is a law there is a responsibility. This is the secret. The key hes in the fulfillment of whatever that responsibility may be. How shall we define this responsibility? Certainly not by listing set rules and forms or by quoting high-sounding platitudes, which, though well-meaning, bear little or no relation to reality. Responsibility can only be defined in terms of the individual, for no one person's situation is the same as that of any other. There are certain positive things, however, that we can know or learn which are applicable under any and all conditions. We should know that forgetfulness of self in the service of others is conducive to serenity of spirit, to peace of mind, and to other qualities which are vital prerequisites to happiness. Finally, we should know that the pattern of life set by our Savior leads to happiness and that our acceptance of and adherence to that way of life is our only hope of attaining it. Ea) SERVICE When the cares of life Seem too hard for you to bear, Lend a helping hand. Your own load will become light As you stoop to help others. —Bessie Decker 578 Ramona W. Cannon Lilly Peter, a past-seventy poet, photographer, and fulltime farmer, recently mortgaged 4,000 acres of her Arkansas plantation to bring the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra, with Eugene Ormandy, to play for Little Rock's one hundred and fiftieth celebration of Arkansas' territorial status. She wanted her fellow citizens to hear the best in music, paying $60,000 for this privilege, ''Miss Lilly'' commissioned, for $8,000, the Pulitzer-prize-winning ''Homage to Haydn"' which the orchestra premiered. - It also played selections from Wagner, Debussy, and Brahms. Rose Mary Woods has been President Nixon's intelligent and efficient secretary for seventeen years. Mary Wells, wife of the head of Braniff Airlines, is the head of a large New York advertising agency. Renata Adler, twenty-nine years of age, has become the highly regarded film critic of the New York Times. Mrs. May West, of Pleasant Grove, Utah, in the Memorial Day Regatta on Utah Lake, piloted her own boat, purchased and tuned to perfection by herself. She was the only competitor in the exciting races to win two events, thus winning the regatta. Her husband, Don, holds some world's records, but a mischance disqualified him from the regatta. Mrs. Virginia H. Knauer of Philadelphia, a fifty-four-year-old grandmother, has been appointed by President Nixon as the President's Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs. Former director of the Pennsylvania State Bureau of Consumer Protection, she will suggest ways of making existing programs more effective and will struggle to protect consumers' rights and to keep the public informed. She may even suggest new protective laws. Catherine C. Redadow and Marian Bass of the Buffalo, New York, police department, last April became the first women in the department's 103-year-old history to be appointed to the rank of desk lieutenants. Mrs. Rachel L. Bishop of Los Angeles, California, is the corporate president of Executive Secretaries, Incorporated. She advises business college graduates to get positions with large firms which have good supervisors to train inexperienced employees in up-to-the-minute, practical details of business offices. Sue Ann Davis, a Cree Indian home economics instructor at Intermountain School for Indian Students in Brigham City, Utah, was honored at the April annual meeting of the Utah Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters. She received a Meritorious High School Teaching Award for her excellent teaching, her assistance in student extracurricular affairs, and her own continuing educational achievements. Danish Princess Benedikte, who married German Prince Richard zu Sayn-Wittgenstein, became the mother of a son in April 1969. Gisella Belgeri, a brilliant Italian pianist, is a member of the internationally touring Orchestra Michelangelo de Firenze. When Baroque concertos for harpsichord are included, Miss Belgeri serves as soloist. 579 EDITORIAL / Leisure for Oneself w To some the words ''relaxation'"' and ''leisure'' may contain derogatory undertones, but the meanings in the dictionary give one pause for thought. ''Relaxation'' is stated as ''relief of bodily or mental _ effort.'' Leisure time is ''the condition of having one's time free from the demands of work or duty.'' What a precious commodity these are for a mother with many young children, or a woman burdened with exacting household duties, including that of constant nursing. One woman confided, ''l have been pressuring myself too much. | am beginning to realize that some of my waking moments need to be spent in doing something | want to do. | need to let down and take or make the time to do something to relax myself."' Advertisements of modern appliances sometimes tell of the additional time released to a busy homemaker. Too often the claim reminds the homemaker of the holes she used to make as a child at the seashore which instantly filled up with water and the holes disappeared. Two women were speaking of joys experienced in earlier days of going visiting. One explained, ''Where could you ever find the time today to go visiting, and if you did, what kind of a welcome would you have in the home where every minute seems to be scheduled fully? I'd feel guilty expecting a friend to sit down and take up her time." Yet Samuel Johnson said, ''All intellectual improvement arises from leisure.'' If this is true, or even partly true, depending on one's interpretation of what he meant, should not every woman seek to capture some leisure when she may pursue her own desires? And how Volume 56 August 1969 Number 8 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Acting SecretaryTreasurer —— 580 should it be spent? In doing something which will bring her a release from tension, a feeling of fulfillment, the building of her own entity. She may wish to take a walk, to garden, do genealogical research, play or listen to music, study and admire reproductions of paintings, sculptures, study a foreign language, read for pleasure, do crewel work, knit, visit a sick friend, telephone a friend, bake a cake for a neighbor, or just sit still and dream. Others find release and rejuvenation in physical exercise, in tennis, golf, bowling, swimming, or hiking. Sometimes a trip to a lovely store is very satisfying. If one is not too weary, the time before one goes to sleep may be used for relaxing. Perhaps time can be found for reading the scriptures, and even with one's eyes shut, a happy or fond experience can be relived in memory. If no one else is disturbed it is pleasing to sing some songs or recite poetry or scriptures. It is a time to evaluate one's progress and review pleasant events so it will be a time of leisure and relaxation. It is not a proper time to lament one's shortcomings of the day, but rather do that when one is actively pursuing one's work. Sometimes a movie on television will be a source of relaxation. There is no rule that says what one should do with leisure time. It will vary with the individual's need, but every woman needs to enjoy some leisure time, and everyone will do well to rearrange her daily activities, if necessary, so that early or late she can devote some time to herself alone and to view her life as an individual for which life she is accountable. —M. C. S. Anne R. Gledhill GENERAL BOARD: Mary R. Young Verda F. Burton Anna B. Hart Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Myrtle R. Olson Edith S. Elliott Elsa T. Peterson Zola J. McGhie Alice C. Smith Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Oa J. Cannon Lucille P. Peterson Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock 581 Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed Acting SecretaryTreasurer The General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announc the appointment of Mayola Rogers Miltenberger, member of the General Board, as acting Secretary-Treasurer, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of former Secretary-Treasurer Evon W. Peterson. Sister Miltenberger was appointed to the General Board in October 1968. (See The Relief Society Magazine, January 1969, p. 16.) She will continue as the administrative supervisor of the Relief Society Social Service programs in Salt Lake City, Arizona, Nevada, and Idaho, while devoting a major part of her time as SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Miltenberger has great executive abilities and an abiding love for Relief Society. She desires to serve in any capacity to which she is called and will render valuable service for Relief Society at this time in her new assignment. She has a deep interest in the work of the sisterhood throughout the Church. They will enjoy their association with her. Frene Cannon Lloyd Resigns From the General Board General Board members and sisters throughout the Church will regret the resignation of Irene Cannon Lloyd from the General Board, as of June 4, 1969. She has served on the board since November 1, 1961 during which time she has rendered devoted and important service to Relief Society. While serving on the General Board, Sister Lloyd has rendered capable service on various committees including the Spiritual Living, General Conference, Homemaking, and Music Committees, along with many others. She has also fulfilled conference-speaking assignments both at home and abroad, and her sincere spirituality has enriched the lives of many sisters. Sister Lloyd came to the General Board after serving Relief Society in various executive positions, including that of a stake Relief Society president. In her home she has carried forth a heritage of deep devotion to the gospel, and her family carry this heritage proudly. The united love of the board goes with Sister Lloyd. Her devotion to Relief Society and her faithful service will remain as a tribute to her in all she does. On behalf of Relief Society sisters throughout the world, love and appreciation are extended to Sister Lloyd. May her health improve and may she find much happiness in her future endeavors. Relief Society will continue to be an enjoyment and a fulfilling part of her life. 582 'Notes to the Field The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 1 and 2, 1969. The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 1, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 1, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, October 2, is limited to stake board members and mission district officers. A reception to which the four stake board executive officers and mission executive officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 1, from 7 to 10 p. M. In the Relief Society Building. Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet Out of the Best Books, Volume 5: Community Responsibility, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, for use with cultural refinement lessons for 1969-70, is available from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and at all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $3.25, postpaid regular mail. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges where air mail service is desired. (See Deseret Book Company advertisement.) A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces (printed in the June and September 1969 color sections of the Magazines) to be used with cultural refinement lessons 2, 3, 5, and 6, as designated. It will also contain a 12'' 33% rpm record of the musical selections to be used with cultural refinement lessons, 1, 4, and 7. The kit is available from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or at the Deseret Book Company branches in Ogden, Utah the Cottonwood Mall in Salt Lake City, Utah, or Orange California, at a cost of $3.50 plus 30 cents postage for third class mailing. Overseas should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges, approximate weight 1 Ib. (See advertisement page 637.) RO SIX OF US These treasures, gifts the heart can't jettison, (The six of us being six, yet seeming one, Working together, having time to play Where orchard grass and wild sunflowers sway). Comprise a wealth that years cannot consume. (Our garden has geraniums in bloom, And fruitful trees we planted long ago— They shade us now and sing when soft winds blow.) For time rusts neither joy nor love's largess: (Good friends, good books, a challenge, some success, The chance to be together, sun to sun, The six of us being six, yet being one.) —Maxine Jennings 583 a w The sounds of the radio banged into Cally's ears as she tried to remember what came next in her pancake recipe. The baby was crying to be picked up, and her husband was calling for a clean towel. The rain beat a heavy tempo against the window; gray clouds pressed a damper on any cheerful thoughts that might have entered her mind. Over the din she heard the radio announcer presenting the local weatherman for his report and forecast. "Tt's a beautiful day in Fremont County!" he began. "At 7:00 this morning, 45 hundredths of an inch of precipitation...." Click! Cally couldn't bear hearing anyone being cheerful about this muggy weather. "He must be some kind of nut," she muttered. At least now with the radio off there was less competition for her attention. She finally got her husband out the door, the 584 baby fed, the dishes done, and the bed made. She had an awful temptation to climb back into bed, but wisdom and good sense beat back her heavy eyelids, and she smoothed the bedspread over the pillows. "A beautiful day indeed!" she muttered as she settled into her daily routine. The phone rang. "Is this the Glen MacMillan residence?" a man's voice asked. "Yes — this is Cally MacMillan." "Mrs. MacMillan, your husband has been in an automobile accident and has been injured. The ambulance is taking him to City Memorial Hospital now. Can you meet us there?" Cally's heart fell to her feet and she frozein shock. "Mrs. MacMillan?" The man's voice seemed twenty miles away. Cally had visions of her husband strapped on a stretcher in a whining ambulance. The man's voice reached her again: "If you have no transportation, a squad car can pick you up." Reality flooded over Cally in a wave of nausea. "Oh — yes — please — Glen was driving our car — is he seriously injured? Is he all right? Please tell me!" Cally's panic spread to her voice. The man sounded more quiet and understanding than before. "I'm sorry, I don't know. The driver of the other car has only some cuts and bruises. A child ran in front of the other man, he swerved and struck the driver's door of your car. Your husband had immediate medical attention, so he's in good hands. We'll pick you up in about ten minutes." Click. Cally fell back against the wall.. She felt like crying but the tears wouldn't come. Her mouth was dry and her feet felt like lead. Her jumbled thoughts even included regrets of ever having married—it would have _prevented so much pain, sorrow, and difficulty. The baby's wail penetrated the shocked trance and brought her back to the cold truth of reality. Cally lifted the receiver again and shakily dialed the number of her neighbor. "Hello, Miriam? This is Cally. Listen, Miriam, I need help. Could you take the baby for awhile? Glen's been in an accident and I've got to go. Oh, thanks—she's in bed and should sleep soon. No, they're coming to get me, but thanks. See you in a minute. Bye." Cally was surprised at her calm as she assembled baby food and dishes so Miriam would have no difficulty finding something The Weather Report for the baby's meals. Miriam and the police car arrived simultaneously, so Cally grabbed her raincoat, gave a brave smile to her friend's encouraging embrace, and stumbled into the rain. The typical hospital odor brought back to Cally's mind that her husband was _ lying somewhere within, unconscious, maybe dying. Panic once again overwhelmed her. She had hoped to be allowed to be with him, but he was in the emergency room. She was shown to what would be his room. The second hand on the clock seemed to take at least five minutes to complete each cycle around the clock. A doctor leaned into the room and glanced around. "Are you Mrs. MacMillan?" "Yes." "Please come with me." Cally followed him to a small office. "Mrs. MacMillan, your husband has been seriously injured. It is imperative that he undergo immediate surgery in order to save his life. We need your permission to perform this surgery." He took a form from a drawer and pushed it toward her. "If you'll sign this standard form, we'll proceed immediately. This explains that we have your permission to do what we feel is necessary even though this action might result in the death of your husband." "Death?" Cally didn't want her husband to die—and Cally's dulled reasoning abilities heard this man asking her permission to do something to Glen which might result in his death. "Mrs. MacMillan your husband has very little chance of living if we do not operate. This is just a legal precaution to pro- 585 August 1969 tect the hospital and doctors. Please sign it." She took the pen and signed her name. The printing was hazy through her tears as her emotions finally found vent. There were no violent sobs or cries—only one or two tears sliding down her cheeks. The doctor was gentle as he touched her shoulder, signaling that they must hurry. He escorted her back to Glen's empty room, then hurried away. Cc ally stood at the window and watched the rain continue to pelt the earth. It was the kind of drizzle that could—and probably would—go on all day. The gray ceiling of clouds seemed oppressively low. The doctor had told her that it would be at least an hour and a half before she could have any word. She walked over and closed the door. She didn't like the sounds of people walking and talking as if nothing was wrong. The helplessness of her situation weighed heavily upon her. Cally could only sit and stare at the rain. When the door opened again, Cally didn't hear it, because she was asleep. Glen's bed was rolled in, accompanied by nurses and aides who also wheeled in the standard, bearing life-sustaining blood, liquids, and nourishment. Glen's eyes were closed, too. His head and one hand were bandaged. You couldn't see his chest where broken ribs were held in place with adhesive bandages. There were no other visible cuts or bruises—one wouldn't have thought this man had been near death. Finally, the room was left quiet with only three occupants: one stood and watched; 586 one slept in exhaustive fear, the other in drugged and mercifully painless sleep. Cally, in her subconscious, sensed someone in the room. Her eyes opened, though she couldn't quite place where she was or why. 'She saw the clock—then remembered. And it had been nearly three hours since Glen had been taken to surgery. She panicked, then saw the nurse standing near the bed. "Oh! How is he?" Cally hurried to the bed and felt relief to see that Glen looked all right. "We don't know yet, Mrs. MacMillan. We won't really know for twelve to eighteen hours or more. Everything indicates that the surgery was successful, but we'll have to wait and see." "But what's wrong—where and how badly was he hurt?" "He was apparently hit almost directly. His ribs have been set and will be fine. Our worry is that brain damage might have resulted from the pressure of the blows on the top and side of his head. There may be some paralysis and speech impairment. But he is out of danger, though his condition is listed as_ serious. The doctor said that he should sleep for another four or five hours. So you may go home if you wish and return around seven this evening. You may see him then, though other visitors should be discouraged." The cold efficiency of the nurse's recitation helped Cally to keep the tears under control. She put on her coat and left the room, feeling a little dazed at what she had just been told. When she reached the exit, she realized she had no transportation. She went to the desk and waited for the receptionist to notice her. As she waited, Bishop Dale came down the corridor. "Well, hello Cally. Baby sick?" Apparently he didn't know about Glen. "Oh, bishop, Glen's hurt. The baby's home with Miriam. 1 I." and Cally fell into his arms and sobbed. He led her to a chair and helped her down. She finally controlled her sobs and tried to wipe her nose with her sleeve. Bishop Dale handed her a handkerchief and sat on the chair next to hers. "Can I help, Cally? Do you need a ride?" "Please—yes. And." Cally began to have some thoughts she realized she should have had hours earlier. "... Could you— would you administer to Glen?" she almost whispered her request. "Of course, Cally, I'll get another of the brethren and we'll come right up. Come on. I'll take you home." "T can't come back until seven. Could you come then?" Bishop Dale said he could. Cally spent the next long hours at home, waiting. Miriam had taken the baby out, so the house was empty. Too empty. Too quiet. She turned on the radio. The 5:00 news was just finishing, and the weather report was beginning. "It's a beautiful day in Fremont County!" Then click! Cally couldn't stand it. Anyone could see it was raining. The man must not have looked outside. It was a terribly miserable day. At ten minutes before seven, Cally, Bishop Dale, and Brother The Weather Report Arlin met at the hospital.. A call to the hospital that afternoon had cleared the bishop and his companion for a_ short visit. Glen was awake but still under too much sedation to respond to his visitors. The brethren administered to Glen. Cally could feel the Spirit of the Lord present and felt strangely at ease. After they left, she knelt by Glen's bed and offered a tearful prayer of her own.: DO ear Father in heaven, please help Glen to recover. Please don't let him be crippled or unable to think. Please restore his health. Thou knowest the love we share—of our efforts to live in accordance with thy will. Please, please remember his faithfulness and bless him with complete recovery. If they be thy will, I pray for these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen." Cally continued to kneel and watch Glen, her face close to his. She took his uninjured hand in both of hers. She felt her heart tug as she realized how much she loved him. A nurse opened the door and asked Cally to step outside to see the doctor. Once again she sat in the cramped little office. Afraid of hearing the worst, Cally asked no questions. She waited for the doctor to turn to her. "Mrs. MacMillan," he shuffled some folders on his desk to find the right one, "your husband shows good signs of complete recovery. He's been too heavily sedated to make accurate tests, so we won't really know for awhile. He has about a seventy per cent chance of complete recovery." 587 August 1969 "Doctor," Cally interrupted him before he could go on, "if Glen doesn't recover, will he — uh — well, what will be wrong with him?" Cally's fear was obvious in her voice and face. She twisted the handkerchief in her hands. "Possible brain damage which could impair sight, speech, hearing and, to a limited degree, intelligence. More complete tests can be made after we see how he has responded to surgery. I don't want to raise any false hopes, so [ll just tell you that if he recognizes people and asks or answers questions coherently, then that's a good sign. You may visit him again around ten tomorrow morning. We_ should know by then. Cally waited for further information but apparently the doctor had terminated the interview. The bishop, having remembered that Cally had no transportation, was waiting for her in the lobby. She gratefully accepted a ride. Ten o'clock tomorrow morning and she would know. How does one go about reorganizing one's life overnight? Cally slept fitfully, grateful at least that the baby was still at Miriam's. Bless her, Miriam had offered her car for tomorrow. Friends were surely wonderful. In fear and anxiety, Cally cried herself to sleep. She arrived at the hospital before ten—the morning had gone far too slowly. It was gray and raining again. The radio had been no help either: there was news of wars and rumors of wars and tornados and earthquakes in diverse places. The 588 weatherman was there with his usual "It's a beautiful day in Fremont County!" Cally failed to see the beauty of it. Glen's door was closed, but the nurse told Cally she could go in. The curtains were open, but it was dark in the room, reflecting the weather outside. Cally closed the door behind her; she feared the moments to come, and she wanted to be alone with her husband. How would he be? Glen was asleep, so Cally brought her chair close to the bed and watched him. His breathing was regular and his color good. The sound of the steady drizzle outside made Cally oblivious of passing time as she waited the verdict on the life of her husband. Though not verbalized, a prayer hung in her heart, and she waited. Glen stirred and his eyelids fluttered. His glance darted around the unfamiliar surroundings. Bewilderment showed on his face, and fear gripped at Cally's throat. "Oh, please, God!" she gasped. The sound from Cally drew his attention toward her, and his eyes focused slowly on her face. The world seemed to stand still as Cally waited and hoped that he would recognize her. His eyes closed for a moment, and with some effort he cleared his throat. He was obviously very weak and groggy. Then as he looked at her again, a shadow of a smile crept over his usually jovial face. Cally clutched his hand and tears flooded her eyes. Glen returned the pressure on her hand and tried to speak. "What " he tried again to clear his throat, hoarse from disuse, and rested a moment with his eyes closed. Cally —_— =| ¢ 4 Ld? " i) i \ R § e pf couldn't breathe in fear and anticipation. His voice finally came to her in a coarse whisper. "What—kind of day is it?" The gloom of the rainy day, the sound of the dismal drizzle, and the rumble of distant thunder penetrated the small hospital room as understanding flooded Cally's mind. She knelt beside his bed in prayerful thanksgiving. "Tt's a beautiful day, Glen," she cried in a choked whisper. "Just beautiful!" PATCH QUILT Time, brought back, Cut up in pieces And then sewed down In tiny stitches To warmly cover Snow-white batting. Scraps of cloth? No, Dancing daughters, Rowdy sons in sturdy breeches. The wool once worn at skating parties And cotton shirts one festive autumn, The cashmere dress you wore one Christmas, The satin when you sang that Easter, And denim when you dug at ditches. Scraps of cloth? No, Friends returning, Thimbles clicking—smiling—telling. Children underneath the frame Appetite for play and pudding. Scraps of cloth? No— Memories brought forth To bless the home For a time like this. —Hazel Loomis 589 @ The breeze skimming the wisteria below my window brought the sound of laughter into my room. When I turned to snap out my lamp, the magazine I had been reading slipped from my bed to the floor. I could hear her voice above all the others: "You don't know my mom." "Cool it." "Give her the plan." "Bye, kid." "T'll meet you at lunch by the east door." In a moment I could hear the door click and the familiar scuff of her shoes in the tile foyer. Then I waited to recognize the comfortable sounds of her midnight snack: the clap of the refrigerator door, the clatter of dishes. But she did not go into the kitchen. The soft steady beat of her shoes against the carpet continued into the stairwell, up the stairway. 590 Marilyn McMeen Miller When my door cracked I started forward in the darkness. The moonlight scoured the rug with a hazy pattern of shadows. As the door opened, the light revealed the toes of her leather shoes, the slender white curve of her calf, her knees and the heavy tweed of her wool coat. Her white blouse offset her pale face. "Mama. "T'm not asleep," I said. "Come 99 99 in. The colors of the dark room made her cheeks look velvet. The light played in the smooth curve of her straight long hair. She was as beautiful as Paul had been good-looking. The oval face, the high cheek bones and almondshaped eyes. I looked at her and remembered him; sometimes I fought memories I could only see with bitterness: the pale skin against the white satin in the black coffin. "Mama." "What is it, Kimberly? Did you have a good time?" She fingered her purse and the ragged game roster in her hands. "Yes, I had a good time." She lowered her eyes. "Shall I turn on the light?" "No," she said quickly. I waited for a moment. My heart seemed to beat faster. I wanted to quiet it. I thought I sensed what she might ask. And I did not know how I was going to continue to give the same answer without breaking. "Valerie's folks are going to let her go to Rick Johnson's lodge party." I knew it. For a moment I let my eyes focus on the room's hazy light. "Mama." Her voice grew desperate. "Mama, you just can't even know what this means to me." Then there were tears in her throat. "Mama, I've tried to tell you over and over again, there is nothing wrong. Nothing will happen. We are seniors in high school. We know what life is all about. You don't understand. John is frantic that I can't have permission. Do you think I want him to ask another girl? Mama, why? Why, why are you doing this to me? Why?" For a moment her hands trembled, as though she wanted to lower her face and weep into them. But she controlled herself, and knotted a piece of tissue in her fingers. She had told me they would laugh at her. It was the biggest event of the year: an all-night party in the canyon on Memorial Day holiday, after the parade and the game and the dance— In the Way They Should Go an important affair, the last big party of the season. Only the very elite of the school were invited. She was the cheerleader. She couldn't miss it—not without looking like a nincompoop. John was going and he wanted her to go. The evening would be chaperoned by Rick Johnson's college brother and his gang of alumni friends in town from State for the summer. My voice was somewhere so far back in my throat that I could not seem to make it audible. "im " She guessed my next words. "Just because Valerie Martin's mother will let her go is no reason that I should go. Is that what you're going to say, Mother?" She looked up toward me. The soft light in the room was strong enough to reveal the shimmering streak of tears across her cheek. "Well, I'm not asking that you let me go because Valerie Martin's mother will let her go. I'm asking that you trust me. I'm asking that you will have faith in me." She leaned close to me. "I'm asking you to respect me as your daughter." There was a brief silent moment that did not seem silent at all, but noisy with the furor of my blood rushing against my brain. "Mother... Can't you trust me? Can't you respect and trust me? Can't you?" I could not speak. "Well, can't you?" I had answered all these questions a hundred times. Now there was a flood of tears. ""Mama, I don't think you know what you're doing to me. I'll have to go to that party, Mama. Do you want me to go without your permis- 591 August 1969 sion?" She stood now, her hands wringing. "Kimberly, you wouldn't...." Suddenly I sat up and leaned forward. "Kim, please, I know I know how important this is to you. I've told you a hundred times. I do trust you. I do trust the young people. It's not them I mistrust, but the situation. We just don't do that kind of thing. It's not." But my words were a volley of meaningless jargon that grew dim to her ears as she turned and streaked out of the door into the hall, and then into her room. I threw my legs over the side of the bed and sat for a moment staring at the shadows of leaves on the carpet. I could hear the mute, muffled sobbing from her pillows, and my heart leaped inside my ribs. Could I have been wrong? The indecision of that moment tore my soul into frazzled shreds. What was I doing to her and to myself — if she should decide to go against my decision — my better judgment? What would that mean? For her, for me? In that moment I might have gone to Kimberly, put my arms around her shoulders and told her I was sorry; I was wrong, and she should go to this all-night canyon party. But I could not do it. My close friend Olga picked me up at ten. Together we watched the colorful parade and met Kimberly briefly before she went with her friends to a pot luck. She was flushed from marching; her shining straight hair streamed like a wide ribbon away from her smooth forehead. "She's beautiful, popular, in- 592 telligent. What more could a mother want for her child to be?" Olga whispered to me later as the two of us slid under a table at a hotel. "I guess if a mother's going to have to rear a daughter without the father, she had better have a daughter like Kimberly. - You've done so well, Margaret. How did you do it?" Olga had reared three, but all before her husband had died. A | ad I done so well in rearing Kimberly? How did I do it? I knew I hadn't done it yet. I remembered in a flash what was to happen tonight. My eyes met Olga's. Her smile was questioning me. What had Olga told her daughters when they had wanted to go to an all-night canyon party? Did she let them go? "Maggie, you've been awfully quiet. Is something wrong? Is there something I can do?" Olga's eyes brightened with concern. I met her gaze with a brave look. "I I appreciate your compliments about Kimberly, but I. Everything isn't as fine as it looks, Olga." I swallowed hard. "Frankly, [''m so worried about her that I haven't been able to sleep." I got the words out in a stuttering heap. "What is it, Maggie? Tell me. Maybe I can help." I told her everything: my disapproval of the all-night canyon party, the many scenes of disagreement between Kim and myself over it, the scene in my bedroom after the game in which she had threatened to go to the party without my permission. "Maggie, it doesn't even sound like Kimberly." By this time my eyes were glazed with tears and I was staring at my plate and nearly choking on a piece of roll. | "You know, Maggie, you sound almost as though you are afraid of Kimberly. I mean you seem afraid really afraid of." Olga stopped and I watched her eyes narrow a bit as she surveyed me analytically. Afraid. I had never thought of it in quite that way. But yes, I was afraid. My heart stuck in my throat. Kimberly was the one in all the world who had the power to hurt me the most. And I was afraid. I was afraid of being hurt. "Kimberly has to try her wings to grow up." I looked at Olga. Was Olga going to tell me I was wrong. That I should let Kimberly go to the canyon party? "You're not suggesting you don't think " I wavered. "You don't think I should let her go to such a party, Olga. Do you?" I interrupted Olga's train of thought. "What. What? The party? Oh No, the party!" Then she laughed a quick laugh. "No... The party. Margaret, you are absolutely right about the party." I watched Olga's gray curls bounce at the shake of her head. I was suddenly relieved. "Oh, no, you are absolutely right about the party. My Dick would pounce harder on those girls than a cat on a rat if they ever came home with such an idea. No, you've got a conscience and you couldn't live with yourself if you gave your daughter permission to go to such a party." I rested my gaze in Olga's In the Way They Should Go soft brown eyes. The tears started again. Somebody understood me. "You've got to live with yourself first," Olga smiled and leaned forward across her salad plate. "The one to fear, Margaret, is not Kimberly, but God. You have your own salvation to worry about even before you have Kimberly's. You would feel guilty had you not already spent every effort you could have spent to train her up in the way she should go. You have trained her in that way and now you would feel guilty if you were to condone something that was against your better judgment." How right Olga was. She had my answers I had prayed for. "You must hope that you've given her enough background that she'll stop herself from disobedience," Olga continued. Then she smiled warmly and reached for my hand. "She loves you. She _ loves you, Maggie. You're all she's ever had and she loves you." I hoped that was true. How I hoped that was true. "That evening Kimberly came home late after the game. When she dashed upstairs to change her clothes for the dance she did not say a word about the all-night canyon party. The moments passed slowly and awkwardly until John's knock finally shook the door, alternating with a few fisticuffs on the doorbell. "Hello, Mrs. Grayson," he smiled, his white teeth striding his face like a picket fence. "Hello, John..." For a moment I had a wild thought that there might be an opportunity to talk to John—to tell him how 593 August 1969 I felt—to insist that he bring Kimberly in by midnight. But there was only a split second of hello before Kim flashed down the stairs looking like a princess. Her hair was heaped in a shining crown set off by small curls around her face. Her eyes were sparkling. Her chiffon dress flew in a rhythmic cloud behind her. "Wow!" John grinned. She really was devastating. "We have to hurry, Mama. John is in charge of getting the band set up. Bye." I had time only to smile and say goodbye. But I stopped them at the door. "Tl be waiting up for you, Kim... Midnight?" I smiled, trying to hide my pounding heart, my own fears. She looked at John briefly; her eyes narrowed and dimmed. It was a cold moment. John didn't say a word. She gave me only one last look. I stood at the door while they moved out quiet- 594 ly, quickly. "Bye," was all she managed. "Bye, Mrs. Grayson," John finally said in a thin voice. "Have a good time," I called after them as they swept down the walk and into the waiting chariot drawn by six cylinders and an infinitely noisy horsepower. The house was quiet and empty when I turned into it. Behind the dining room one of the French screens was caught by a slight breeze and clapped the lawn chair out on the patio. I walked to the tall windows and shut them tightly. The clock chimed anoisy 8:30. I looked out onto. The dimly lit lawn and felt a crushing feeling of loneliness and defeat. Olga's words alone seemed to buoy me up. "The one to fear is not Kimberly, but God. You have your own salvation to worry about even before you have Kimberly's." | Twenty minutes before midnight I closed the covers of the novel in my lap and grew suddenly conscious of the loud clatter of the living room clock above the fireplace. Its usually quiet tick seemed deafening to me. I switched on the television set to fill up the emptiness. But I could not focus on the blur of black and white figures cavorting on the screen before me. I could think only of Kimberly. I remembered how she cried when we could not bring home one of the little beagle pups at the fair eight summers ago. I saw her turn into a flurry of arms and legs when she lost her four-year-old temper at bedtime. I saw her shaking with sobs when [ left her with the baby sitter one important evening. There were many times we had come to grips with one another. And each time we had lost a little, yet gained so much more. We had learned that there were some things we must do, or must not do or have, no matter how much our wants or needs were in opposition. And we had learned that each crisis passes. The music from the television roared blatantly into the empty house. But would this crisis pass? How? What punishment would I mete for disobedience? The usual loss of privileges: no guests in the home, no use of the car? My nerves tingled when I. Tried to relax against the arms of my chair as the clock struck midnight. I strained to hear some commotion in the street, and my throat tightened when I suddenly sensed the crash of a car door shaking the silence. I started. Could it be...? But I stayed fastened to my chair, breathing hard. When the front door opened swiftly and noisily and I heard the brush of Kimberly's soft shoes against the tile in the foyer, I thought my whole head was going to burst with a sense of relief. But I stayed rooted numbly to my chair pretending to be engrossed in the midnight movie. There was not a word of greeting. I heard the shoes scrape across the hall into the kitchen. The refrigerator door opened; the cake pan clattered; a stream of milk gurgled from the pitcher into a plastic tumbler. I waited almost breathlessly while the In the Way They Should Go opening scenes of the old cinema quietly flickered. But deep in my heart I was smiling. I finally heard the faucet rattle and screech, and I knew the dishes had been rinsed. So I turned off the light from the television and rose from my chair, straightening out my wrinkled housedress. I met Kimberly as she sauntered into the hallway. She stopped when she saw me. The chiffon hung limply from her shoulders. Her hair streaked in loose shreds from her forehead. I hesitated when I looked into her eyes. They were narrowed and stern. I could not utter a word. My throat seemed so stopped up. "Well, I got home," she said coolly. "I'm in by midnight." She was tired. I could tell by the shadow of darkness beneath her eyes. "I hope you're satisfied." My heart pounded. "Did you have a good time?" I asked cautiously. "Yes," she turned toward the stairway. "But I'm really tired." At the stairs she stopped and looked back at me as I stood half disheveled in the hallway. We made a grand pair, I with my housedress and she with her streaking makeup and flattened ringlets. I was surprised to hear her voice soften. "Mom, I'm almost glad you didn't let me go to the party." Her limp arm reached for the banister. "I guess I'm _ really too tired to go. It's been a big day.". "Yes it has," I said softly. "Yes, it's been a big day for both of us." I was smiling. 595 BUILDING A HOME A house is made of wood or brick With shingles on the roof; The windows all are made of glass, The doors are weather-proof. A home is different from a house, Although it looks the same; A family can build it With the things we all can name. There's helpfulness, obedience, Cheerfulness, and love; Cleanliness and sharing And a prayer to God above. —Mary C. Clough A Pretty and Practical Use for the Lowly Washtuh Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society @ Summer picnics can be great fun, whether you and your family take to the canyon, the woods, or the beach, or whether you prefer just to relax and enjoy a cookout in your own back yard. What could be more satisfying on a warm summer day than a delicious thirst-quenching cold drink or a slice of cooled melon? But how to keep the melons and the drinks cold is the question. For this practical purpose, and for aesthetic appeal, as well, the washtub in the picture was painted and decorated. Such colorful tubs, when not in use for keeping foods cold, can serve, also, as containers for special arrangements of flowers and greenery for enhancing the attractiveness of the outdoor rest and recreation area. The project of decorating washtubs proved to be one of the most exciting and rewarding homemaking projects sponsored by the Relief Society sisters of the Parley's Sixth Ward, Salt Lake City, Utah. Even those with no acknowledged creativity found real satisfaction in wielding a paint brush with such delightful results. Originality was the key word. White, black or red paint was used to cover the tubs, with a variety of colors and designs used for trim. Sisters with some artistic talent painted original, free-hand designs, such as the one shown in the picture. The more timid ones used decals, stencils, or tracings. Some sisters even discovered artistic talents they were not aware they possessed. All who participated were amazed with the beauty and utility they had brought to the 598 lowly washtub. Some coal buckets were also painted in a like manner for those who wanted something a little smaller. These were later used at their bazaar as containers for popcorn balls, apples, and the like. EQUIPMENT NEEDED Tub—these can usually be found in hardware stores. Round bottom tubs are easier to handle. Rust inhibiting paint Enamel paint in the color of your choice Additional enamel paints for trimming— small cans of enamel are available in many colors Clear varnish—exterior, interior, or marine 1 or 1%-inch bristle brush Decals or stencils—available variety stores Small artist paint brushes for trimming and designs in most PAINTING THE TUB Clean the tub thoroughly. Apply an undercoat of rust inhibiting paint on the outside and down about six inches (to the estimated water line of the tub when in use). When dry, apply a good quality enamel paint. White was used on the tub in the accompanying picture, but almost any color would be attractive. Use one coat of enamel, or more, for adequate coverage. Allow to dry thoroughly, then cover the entire exterior of the tub with clear varnish for protection and durability. APPLYING DECORATIVE DESIGNS When the varnish on the outside is thoroughly dry, apply decals, stencils, or free-hand painting. Interesting designs can be found in children's picture books, magazines, or in wallpaper prints. These can be traced and Photo by Dorothy J. Roberts a ——— then filled in with paint, or they can be glued to the tub and covered with one or two coats of clear varnish. Fill the decorated tub with favorite drinks, fruit juice, milk, homemade rootbeer, lemonade, or melons. Pack with ice, and a large part of the picnic preparations have been completed. SS NIGHT FALL So quietly creeps the evening gray, As the birds' last song floats gently Through the brown beach, copper red by day From the sun's kindly gleam. Softly blend these darkened shadows Rocked in the bosom of the wind, As night falls their brightness fades Into the sleeping dusk. —Margaret Read Norwich, Norfolk, England. Sp a cues From the Past —A Box Full of Memories — Mazzacano asadena, California box full of them. Ories? 1 do. J own 2 whole worn little blue tin box, measuring about 4 x 5 5 Prim's Recipe Cabinet," and all I have to do to visit with my dear memories is to open the lid, take out a yellowed and smudged card, and they begin to talk to me. | Here comes me first, Jabeled Mrs. Walsh's Date Pudding. As 1 mull over the ingredients, rs. Walsh herself, dressed in a dark print, with a neat apron tied over lt, her hair in an unsty lish chignon and wearing her rimless pifocals, materializes. She reminds me of m many visits to her neat little cottage, usually for dinner, perhaps topped off by this very dessert. MRS. WALSH'S DATE PUDDING 1 c. Brown sugar lc. Milk 12 c. Warm water Le all-purpose flour lc. White sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder Yo c. Nut meats, broken V2 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla. Over \ow heat until yy c. Dates, cut up - tablespoo Do not stir. Pour oven about 1 hour. Se welve servings: Now I com Memories of my mother are, for it was she who gave it to me, along W} first married. These piscuits I me out as light, as high, 2 ectable, aS hers always did. BISCUITS SUPREME Vp tsp. Cream of tartar 2c. Flour Yo tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Sugar 4 tsp. Baking powder Ye C. Shortening 2, c. Milk sift together flour, salt, baking powder, cream of tartar, and sugar. Cut in shortil mi is like coarse crumbs. D k all at once, and stir just enough, until doug around bowl. Pat or roll ick on lightly floured sur tter. Sed baking sheet | face, and for 10 to 12 minutes. 600 August 1969 DORA'S LEMON SOUFFLE a Fo 4 egg a beaten lightly 4c. Flour c. Mi ¥ tsp. Salt 12 tsp. Lemon rind, minced lg tsp. Baking powder 3 tbsp. Lemon juice 3 tbsp. Butter 3 egg whites, beaten stiff Sift dry ingredients together and mix with the butter. Add egg yolks, milk, lemon rind and lemon juice. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and pour into lightly buttered baking dish. Bake in pan of water 350° for 40 minutes, or until lightly browned. Cake will rise to top, leaving custard on bottom of dish. Cool. Serve with whipped cream. The memory I call Aunt Alice comes out, smiling her gentle smile. She knows she is my favorite of them all. Our families were the closest of friends, and we were often guests at their big holiday dinners. Uncle Jim was a gentleman of the deep South, and the family lived in the old plantation manner. All meals were served on elegant china with heirloom silver, and usually by candlelight. Her Maple Pecan Creams, her fudge, her divinity, tasted like no other, and could have made her a fortune in the business world. Now, just as the memory disappears, I remember that her secret was that she always kneaded the candy on a marble table top. AUNT ALICE'S MAPLE PECAN CREAMS 2 c. Sugar ec. Cream Yc. Real maple syrup Yo ¢. Pecans, chopped Combine all ingredients, except nuts, and stir constantly over low flame until mixture begins to boil. Continue to cook slowly until candy reaches soft ball stage. Cool. Beat until candy begins to thicken, then add pecans. Drop with teaspoon onto waxed paper. Thin with a little more cream if necessary. DANDELION ALCHEMY From melting snow and first bird song Till summer is long past, You only smile at scorching sun, And scorn the icy blast. Men curse you on their broad terrain, While women sigh and yawn, To see your merry face a-glow— Triumphant—on the lawn. Gay dandelion, flaunt your curls! ' Pursued—decried—who knows What inner magic stirs your heart To wink at all your foes? For in warm hands held up to me With words of love, untold, Small field-grown flower, glorified, Your petals turned to gold. —Norma A. Wrathall Chapter 3 HEART ROOM FOR HOME Alice Morrey Bailey SYNOPSIS: Rosemary Freenian has stormed out of the living room of their Los Angeles home after a scene about her wedding, planned for the coming June, which she had expected her mother to finance. Her parents, Kim and Mary Ann Freeman, have brought her aged grandfather, convalescing from a broken hip, home to care for him, rather than sell his home in Mayville, Utah, and put him in a nursing home. His home is beloved by all the family. Rosemary's mother must give up her job of teaching in order to take on this new responsibility, and it will cut the family income in two. @ There was nothing for Mary Ann to do but leave, but she was near tears when she came out of Rosemary's room, not only at the rebuff, but at her inability to reach Rosemary and at her own question. Kim came to meet her, to put his arm around her. She avoided him, because it did not seem fair to accept comfort for herself when Rosemary had none. "IT told you not to go in," reminded Tommy. "But she's right. Rosemary's right. What are we going to do for her wedding? Isn't a parent's first duty to the children?" Kim was silent under Mary Ann's rebuff, taking it, she knew, as a criticism of him. "It wasn't that,' she said later, and explained to him. "Kim, I'm sorry. I love you very much." "Do you, dear? And I love you. Now don't worry about Rosemary. She has a good mind. Give her Sunday to mull it over." There were responsibilities on Sunday—Rosemary' with her Sunday Schoo) class, Tommy with his priesthood class, he and his father off early to priesthood meeting, and Mary Ann playing righthand man to everybody's needs. Neither Tommy nor Rosemary opened the subject, busy 603 August 1969 © as they were with their teaching assignments, but reverted to their usual Sunday morning activities. Of course, Mary Ann could not go. "Please make my apologies to the class leader," she said. She was president of the gospel doctrine class. "TI wonder how soon I'll be able to go?" asked Father Freeman, looking after the men with longing. "Next Sunday, Dad," assured Mary Ann. "We'll be more organized by then. There's no reason you can't go everywhere with two strong men to lift you and a wheelchair to ride in." "That's good," he said. "Beginning tomorrow I am going to start a definite program of exer-_ cises. Pretty soon Ill be able to walk, and then I won't be such a burden on you." It was useless to assure him he was no burden; he could see otherwise. "Kim will help you with your bath when he comes home," she told him, "while I get dinner on the table. And, Dad, we are very glad to have you with us. The children will all be here for dinner. I hope it will not be too much for you." "Just like it was at home when she was alive," Father Freeman said with satisfaction, "the gathering of the clan." He was immaculate, his snowy hair sparkling, when the first contingent arrived—Jennifer and Dick and their pretty little family, three girls and two scrubbed, freckle-faced little boys. Oo ight on their heels came Cary, demanding to know if they | had any tall, skinny red-heads 604 around, kissing Rosemary unabashedly before them all. "Tiss me, too, Tary," said Jennifer's youngest, Becky, pursing her little red lips. Cary complied, lifting her high. He was courtly, meeting Rosemary's grandfather. "How do you do, sir? I want to hear about that fabulous home Rosemary has been telling me about. How was your trip?" "Here comes Aunt Barbara and Uncle Hank," piped Dennis. "Now we can eat." Barbara's five children were dark-eyed and _ serious, wellmannered and quiet, in contrast to Jennifer's sandy-red and vociferous brood. It was the usual, happy babble at the elongated table, with a dozen conversations going on, interspersed with requests _ for food and the admonishings of. Parents as to manners and spilling. "Grandpa, is my little castle still there?" asked Barbara. "T think," said her grandfather, "that a couple of mountain squirrels have taken up housekeeping, but the walls are unhurt." "Your castle?" echoed Tommy. "T'll have you know I[ fought the battle of Hastings from that castle, and dubbed every knight of King Arthur's Round Table. The moat was real and the drawbridge actually came down, chiseled out of sheer rock, the whole thing!" "Now, Mr. Freeman," put in Cary. "Everybody knows at last why I'm marrying Rosemary —so I can get to your place and revert to my boyhood for all the things I missed." "Tt'sa trap," said Hank. "That's why I married Barbara, and it didn't work. I never get there." "He's right!" abetted Dick. "It was part of the deal that I get to fish in Jennifer's grandfather's pond, but it never came through. She keeps my nose to the grindstone just like Rosemary will yours." "T'}] tell you what!" said Rosemary, suddenly excited. "Let's go there for our honeymoon—instead of Hawaii. Would it be all right, Grandfather? Oh, please say yes!" "Certainly," said her grandfather, flushing with pleasure. "Of course you may go there for your honeymoon. [ll ask Victor and Emma to make it ready for bP you. MI ary Ann caught her breath and looked at Kim. He was remembering, too. It was to that house Kim had brought Mary Ann proudly to meet his parents in their courting days, the pretty new teacher from the Heber Valley, come to Mayville to teach. "The Marriage Bureau," Kim had laughed. "Never a schoolteacher escapes this town. That's why we have such a high rate of culture here. The mothers are all school marms." It was there he had brought her temporarily as a bride and they had been given the whole upstairs in which to set up their new little housekeeping, Rachel generously contributing everything from bedding to bottled fruit, but never intruding on their privacy. That sweet privacy among the treetops, where they could look from their bedroom window into the nests of birds, Heart Room For Home into the petaled hearts of apple blossoms. The beginning cycles of nature had seemed symbols of their own beginnings, and to this day the songs of early robins reminded her of Kim when he was a slim young man, earnest and blonde, when they were newly in love. That house held the Eden days of their early marriage, and it was a fitting honeymoon house for any young couple, secluded as it was between towns, in the mouth of a canyon, its own little entity, and Rosemary's first suggestion brought cries of appreciation from Barbara and Tommy. "T'd like that," said Cary simply, his eyes shining. "Now you're talking sense, sis,' Tommy congratulated. "Be a lot easier on the budget, too, than Hawaii." "When are you planning to be married, Rosemary?" Kim's father asked when the excitement died down. "June the third," said Rosemary. Mary Ann sensed Father Free- | man's unease and could see him mulling the date in his mind. By his calculations he would be home long since by the first of June. Spring started for him in April or in May, but he said nothing. Any honeymoon should not include an aged grandfather. "They set it for then, Grandfather, so they wouldn't break into my studies, and I could still make it to the wedding. I should be all through with my requirements by then, to graduate a week later." "Oh! Tommy, that's not true!" protested Rosemary. "We _ set it for ourselves, didn't we, Cary? 605 August 1969 I always wanted a June wedding." "T don't," said Cary, with proper gallantry. "I wanted it the day I asked Rosemary, or the next day—no later." "Cary!" said Rosemary. "You know we can't be ready until June—all the things I want for my wedding. I have it on a timetable, month by month, day by day. It can't be before June." Wasn't Rosemary going to scale down her wedding, in view of their conversation last night? Mary Ann's eyes sought Kim's. "You will be here for it, won't you, Grandfather? And _ well enough to go with us to the Los Angeles Temple?" "You bet I will, darling," her grandfather assured her, but Mary Ann noticed a false heartiness in his voice, and her heart ached. Kim, always sensitive to her thoughts, noticed it, too. Later that night with the day behind them and the children all dispersed to go to their respective wards when Kim's father was resting, Kim brought it up. "It doesn't seem quite honest of us to not tell Dad he can't possibly get back home by spring, no matter what his condition of recovery. We can't let him go back alone, and we ought not to hold out hope." "J think he's coming to the realization by degrees," said Mary Ann, "and it's better that way. Maybe we can wean him gradually to California living." "T hope so," said Kim without conviction. "I wonder what Rosemary meant, the things she wants for her wedding. Can't she see that now she will have to plan for less?"' "Spring is a long way off," 606 said Mary Ann. "As you say, Kim, we'll just have to play it by ear." | "What about tomorrow?" "Barbara will come while I get over to school and talk to the principal." Kim fell asleep easily, but Mary Ann was afraid to sleep too soundly, for fear his father might need something during the night. She awakened feeling tired and apprehensive about breaking her contract. "How does it feel to be leaving for work the last time?" asked Barbara when she came. "T'll tell you later," said Mary Ann as she joined Rosemary in the waiting car, because, of course, Rosemary would have to go on substituting until she was replaced. Just now she felt the loss of her job was cataclysmic. How were they going to go on without her salary? It was Rosemary who opened the tender subject as she drove along the boulevard toward San Gabriel School. "You know, Mother, they paid us Friday. The first real pay check I ever had! It's rather a good feeling." "Rosemary, dear, I'm so sorry about your having to scale down your wedding." "Don't be," said Rosemary serenely. "I don't intend to scale it down. I've been thinking. There's no reason why I can't get a job and earn the things I want myself. Do you think they will let me have your class? Or do they have a backlog of teachers just aching to take over?" "If they had they would certainly not have let you substitute for me in the first place, but we can ask," replied Mary Ann, her spirits rising. "T think part of my reluctance to work was fear that I couldn't do it, but this little interval has given me confidence." This was a new facet of Rosemary, who had always seemed so self-sufficient, if not self-satisfied and somewhat supercilious, even critical of the methods of her mother. "T had no idea!" Mary Ann said now, looking at her daughter with new fondness. "It always seemed you were born knowing how to do everything." "Mother! Is that how I really seem to you? That's how you always appeared to me—capable of anything. I've been thinking it over, since I have this experience— oh, student teaching is SO supervised—and I have come to the conclusion I was chipping away at you to bring you down to my level." "Could that be true?" Mary Ann asked. "How honest of you to say so!" Rosemary was noted in the family for her analytical mind. When the car pulled into the parking lot of the school the children of the fourth grade swarmed about it. "Hello, Mrs Freeman," they said respectfully to her, but she was astonished to see the little girls vying for the privilege of Heart Room For Home holding Rosemary's hand as they walked to the building, their adoring eyes taking in every detail of Rosemary's pretty, flowered dress and accessories. Rosemary dressed immaculately and daintily, with an eye to color combinations. "You held her hand yesterday. It's my turn today," said one. We weren't here "Yo ho! Yesterday." The little boys turned handsprings, their eyes seeking Rosemary's approval. 607 August 1969 "Freddie, how nice you look with your glasses!" Mary Ann complimented. "She got them for me, and now I can see everything on the board," said Freddie, but his shy smile was all for Rosemary. Although this was somewhat of a blow to Mary Ann's ego, it gave her courage to face her principal, something she had dreaded, she found now. A contract was a contract; her rating as a teacher was high, and the school board might rightfully hold her to it. "Well, Mrs. Freeman. This is unusual, but I can see your problem. Needless to say, we will not want to lose you. Breaking your contract is not a matter for me to decide, however, as you probably know, and we will need time for the proper replacement." "My daughter, Rosemary, who is substituting for me, would like to continue in my place," Mary Ann replied diffidently. "Really? Her attitude so far has been that she did not want to teach school. I have watched her with interest, and like her work, but she has let it be known she is not interested in a contract. Unless." "Why don't you talk to her?" "T'll do that. In the meantime you may fill out these forms for resignation. Perhaps we can send her application in with it, along with my recommendation to the school board. It was astute of her to discover little Freddie Williams' eye trouble and initiate his getting glasses. It is this kind of personal involvement we like in our teachers. I see no reason why she can't continue substituting for you until we hear from the school board on your release at any rate." "T don't know whether to feel relieved or deflated," she told the family at dinner that night. "I think they should have put up a token fight at least to spare my ego. And Rosemary! What did you do to get them eating out of your hand like they do—the children, I mean?" "Nothing, Mother. Maybe it is my pretty clothes, or my red hair. I certainly am strict with them, but I try to be just, and I certainly do love them, every one. Do you think I'll get that class? I really do want it." "T hope so, dear,' Mary Ann replied. "Mr. Waverly was most impressed and that's half the battle." A few days later twin letters came from the board of education, one addressed to Mary Ann, a gracious release from her contract "in view of the circumstances," and thanking her for her past high-ranking performance, the other to Rosemary. It was all Mary Ann could do to refrain from opening Rosemary's letter. (To be continued) STAY Sister, little sister, In the reaches of my heart Is a wide world set apart That is empty when you're gone. 608 —Leora Larsen All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities mY TP | HW Idaho Stake, Soda Springs Second Ward Honors Visiting Teachers, March 12, 1969 Front row, left to right: Janice Clark, Secretary-Treasurer, Soda Springs Second Ward Relief Society; Darlene Clegg, Homemaking Counselor; Iris Lott, Education Counselor; Norma Jo Vance, President; Lue! La W. Finlinson, member, General Board of Relief Society; Gale Sanders, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society; Ordis Williams, Education Counselor; Beverly Michaelson, Homemaking Counselor; Asa Hatch, High Council Priesthood Representative. Remaining sisters are officers and honored visiting teachers of the Soda Springs Second Ward Relief Society. Sister Sanders reports: ''The theme for the visiting teacher convention in the Soda Springs Second Ward was 'It's a feather in Your Hat to Be a Visiting Teacher.' This theme was carried out in the clever invitations delivered to each sister by the visiting teachers, and in the table decorations. This function was held in celebration of the birthday of Relief Society. 'Luncheon was served to eighty-five visitors and guests. Sister Zina Balls was honored for having served forty years as a visiting teacher. Sister Luella Finlinson of the General Board addressed the sisters and praised and encouraged respect for the calling of visiting teacher. "This was a lovely occasion and was enjoyed by al! Who were in attendance."' 609 August 1969 Mt. Logan Stake (Utah), River Heights Ward Relief Society Honors Bishop at Birthday Celebration March 1969 Front row, left to right: Darlene W. Smart; Bishop Ross A. Smart, River Heights Ward. Back row, left to right: Orma Jean A. Johnson, Secretary-Treasurer; Evelyn H. Ellis, First Counselor; Maurine N. Miller, Second Counselor; Anna L. Merrill, President. Relda F. Jorgensen, President, Mt. Logan Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The River Heights Ward of our stake honored their bishop and his wife at the Relief Society - Birthday Celebration. A counselor in the bishopric and a counselor in the Relief Society presidency paid tribute to the couple. A lovely quilt made by the Relief Society sisters was presented."' California Mission, Bishop Branch Holds 127th Anniversary of Relief Society Program March 17, 1969 First row, left to right: Viola Dearborn; Ruby Rose; Naomi Burnand;. Vera Critchfield; Ruth Mays. Back row, left to right: Shauna Richards, Homemaking Counselor, Bishop Branch Relief Society; Grace Mayhew, Secretary-Treasurer; Emily Heslington, Education Counselor; Mable E. Bruce, President; past president: Albertha Kollicker, Shirley Allred, Nelva Edell.. Marie B. Rasmussen, Supervisor, California Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Bishop Branch in our mission honored two past Relief Society presidents and five other faithful sisters in a program commemorating the 127th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. "A skit portraying the purpose of Relief Society was enjoyed by fifty-two sisters. Twenty-two of them were nonmembers. The spirit of fellowship was manifest. There were displays representing the various aspects of Relief Society. Lovely entertainment and refreshments added to the success of the program." Sunset Stake (Utah), Sunset First Ward Observes Birthday of Relief Society, March 27, 1969 Ronald Krogh sings ''Thank Heaven for Little Girls,'' to his three daughters Shelly, Shonna, and Stacy, in 'Portrait of Women." Nora B. Stephens, President, Sunset Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The First Ward of our stake presented a lovely program in honor of the birthday of Relief Society. Entitled 'Portrait of Women' it depicted in narration, music, tableau, and pictures the growth of a woman from a child to a grandmother, showing the role of the priesthood and the Church in her development. "Seventy people took part in this inspiring performance. Delicious refreshments were served to 120 sisters and their husbands who attended. "Each of the six wards in our stake presented outstanding birthday programs this year, and we are very pleased with all of them." 610 ne a a ea st August 1969 Yuma Stake, Brawley Ward (California) Presents "The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way,'' March 21, 1969 Left to right, Brawley Ward Relief Society officers and teachers: Lela Lunceford; Evelyn Mann, President; Alice Mikesell, Secretary-Treasurer; Vivian Willardson, First Counselor; Pauline Lunceford, Second Counselor. Louise S. Westover, President, Yuma Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The birthday of Relief Society was celebrated in the Brawley Ward in a most pleasant way. A lovely dinner of Chinese food was served under the direction of Lela Lunceford with suitable decorations by artist Mary Daker. Following the dinner, 'The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way' was presented under direction of Afton Ellis with singing directed by Verma Schoenfeld. The sisters and their husbands were most appreciative of this lovely evening. A collection of cookie recipes, tied with blue and gold ribbons, was presented to each sister."' Concord Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert, ''The Things We Love,'' March 1, 1969 Front row, sixth and seventh from left: Laura Muceus, organist for Concord Stake Singing Mothers; Lenore Wittwer, conductor. Third row, at left: Fern Pike, President, Concord Stake Relief Society. Sister Pike reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented a lovely concert with the theme ''The Things We Love."' Seventy-five Singing Mothers from ten wards participated. The program was narrated by Gloria Magleby and consisted of eight choral numbers, and vocal and instrumental solos and ensembles from each ward. "It was an inspiration for the ward groups to participate and many of them participated in sacrament meetings and fashion shows. The Singing Mothers also sang for stake quarterly conference." Minnesota Stake Relief Society Presents Fashion Show, "Springtime Internationale,"' March 29, 1969 Fay Dearden, Homemaking Counselor, Minnesota Stake Relief Society models gown in fashion show. Artbella M. Basinger, President, Minnesota Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our fashion show was one of the most successful events our stake has presented. The presence of Sister Joan Fisher, the reigning Mrs. America, added much to the program. She and her seven-year-old daughter took part in the program. "The program, through song and dance and decorations took the spectators to Hawaii, Paris, Vienna, Holland, Ireland, Mexico, and many other countries, with clothes being modeled at each stop. Fifty women and children modeled in the show. "Springtime festivals throughout the world were represented in display rooms opened before and after the show. Each ward had a room, and these were truly delightful with demonstrations of home skills, free food samples, and handicraft items and food for sale. The decorations were elaborate représentations of the various countries. "A large room of the building was set apart for missionary work, and more than 100 visitors made contact with the missionaries there. "This program received much publicity in the Twin Cities area, both on radio and in the newspapers. We were thrilled with the results." 612 ET August 1969 Blackfoot Stake (Idaho), Blackfoot First Ward Pays Tribute to Older Sisters at 127th Birthday of Relief Society Party March 1969 Left to right: Jane P. Miles; Abby K. Gooch; Josephine DeWitt; Pearl B. Wooten. La Rue F. Cox, President, Blackfoot Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Relief Society sisters of the Blackfoot First Ward paid tribute to the sisters in the ward over eighty years of age, at the celebration of the birthday of Relief Society. 'Tribute was paid to each sister by one of her daughters who told of their family life, and about their mother's talents, experiences, life history, and other interesting points. Several of the daughters had to travel some distance in order to be present. This was indeed a lovely program." | Raa Gy MLR ANS OSTA TS EP SIERO Pn oe Las Vegas East Stake (Nevada) Las Vegas Fifth Ward Presents ''Profiles of Pioneer Women" March 1969 Seated in front, left to right: Luana Marshall as Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our prophet, and link between the old and new, having been born two months before the death of Brigham Young; Pauline Jolley as Ellis Shipp, pioneer doctor; Melba Hoffer as Ann Clark Martin, schoolteacher; Racheal Cutler, program narrator; Rosemary Hansen as Emma Hale Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Back row, left ta right: Lydia Victor as Maude Adams, leading actress, Olive Isom as Emma Lucy Gates, opera and concert artist; Le Ann Virchow as Eliza R. Snow, authoress; Ines Larkin as Susanna Goudin Cardon, pioneer of Utah's silkworm industry; Janice Zobrist as Emmeline B. Wells, suffragette and Relief Society leader. Loreta N. Gubler, President, Las Vegas East Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Fifth Ward of our stake presented a lovely and well done presentation entitled 'Profiles of Pioneer Women,' in honor of the birthday of Relief Society. The program was written by Mabel Hansen, and was highly praised by the overflow audience from all wards in the Las Vegas area."' Box Elder Stake (Utah) Relief Society Celebrates Anniversary of the Organization of Relief Society March 27, 1969 Stake board members, front row, left to right: Velda Palmer, spiritual living class leader; Renie Littlewood, cultural refinement class leader; Chloe Sheffield, homemaking leader; Lola Anderson, Secretary-Treasurer; Eva Jeppsen, Education Counselor; Bernice Rasmussen, President; Faye Hansen, Homemaking Counselor; Ethel Poulter, chorister; Thelma Monson, visiting teacher message leader; Jennie Reeves, social relations class leader; Cleo Dixon, Magazine representative. Second row, left to right, beginning directly behind president: Pat Davies, organist; and Afton Rees, chorister for Brigham First Ward Singing Mothers who are pictured. Sister Rasmussen reports: ''At our stake leadership meeting in March we celebrated the birthday of Relief Society. The program consisted of a brief history of the organization; an original skit by Phyllis Warnick entitled 'The Tribute,' presented by the board members; lovely organ music; and three numbers by the Singing Mothers of the Brigham First Ward." al STEELS ~ aS GR LTP TRS NaN Sha EI PLE LIM RES OV DL A A Andes Mission Holds Annual Relief Society Conference March 1969 Pictured at left: Elder David Lefevre, a Lima (Peru) Zone Leader, serves sisters from Chimbote. Pictured at right: left to right: Andes Mission Relief Society officers: Esperanza Schwarz, President; Janice Litster, Supervisor; Shirley Ford, Secretary-Treasurer; Clara Vasquez, First Counselor. Sister Litster reports: ''A very lovely and successful conference was held for Relief Society sisters in our mission. Much useful information was given, however in order to insure continued success and follow-up of the material presented, a series of film strips accompanied by tape recording was prepared for distribution by the mission Relief Society presidency. Much work and time went into this project, as the pictures and tapes had to meet exacting specifications. 'A lovely display of handwork from various areas of the mission was enjoyed by all. Perhaps one of the nicest times of the conference was the delicious chicken dinner cooked by the sisters and served by the priesthood, including the missionaries.'' 616 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 98—Events Associated With the Second Coming of Christ Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 133.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman will resolve to prepare herself for the second coming of the Savior. INTRODUCTION The Church has come into existence to prepare a people for the second coming of Christ. The elect. Are gathered out of the world into the kingdom of | God to prepare themselves for that coming. (D&C 1:8-23; 45: 9; 133:1-10; 10:65; 29:1-8.) These facts were revealed to the Church early in its history. The first compilation of revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith was approved for printing at the conference held on November 1, 1831, over eighteen months after The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized. When it was decided by the conference that the revelations should be published under the title a Book of Commandments, the Lord gave his Preface to that book. This revelation (D&C, Section 1) contains the Lord's reasons for giving revelations to the Prophet. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 1, pp. 222, 226, 234-36 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) The Lord closes the revelation with these verses concerning the last days: And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth: I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion: And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. (D&C 1: 34-36.) Finally, the Lord said that the prophecies in these revelations will all be fulfilled, and that the Spirit bears record that the 617 August 1969 revelations are true. (D&C 1: 37-39.) Section 133, the Appendix to the Doctrine and Covenants, gives additional information concerning the last days and the second coming of Christ. The following subjects in the Appendix indicate the importance of this revelation: (1) the principle of gathering; (2) preparation to meet the Bridegroom when he comes; (3) the return of the lost tribes; (4) a description of the second coming of Christ; (5) reasons for the commandments being given in the dispensation of the fulness of times. THE GATHERING Two aspects of the gathering have operated in this dispensation: (1) to be gathered out of the world into the Church (D&C 29:4; 33:5; 38:42); and (2) to assemble to designated areas. (D&C 31:7-8.) By baptism one is gathered out of the world into the Church and forsakes the things of this world and cleaves to the principles of righteousness. (D&C 25:10; 133:14.) The first call to gather in a designated area was to gather in Ohio where the Church had grown rapidly. (D&C 39:15.) At the same time that Kirtland, Ohio, and its environs was a gathering place, the call went out for the saints to gather in western Missouri. (D&C 45:64-65; 57:1.) With the expulsion of the saints from Jackson County, and later from the State of Missouri, refuge was found in Illinois, where the city of Nauvoo became the central gathering place. In 1846, the 618 members of the Church were expelled from Illinois and the trek across the plains to the Rocky Mountains resulted in a new gathering place. The expansion of missionary work, despite persecution and the many difficulties confronting the saints in building a commonwealth in the West, brought many stakes into existence in fulfillment of — prophecy. (D&C 101:20-21.) PREPARATORY EVENTS There are several events which were prophesied and which have already occurred that indicate the nearness of the Lord's second coming. First, the restoration of The Church of Jesus Christ and the gospel that it might be preached to all the world. (Rev. 14:6-7; D&C 133:36-40.) Second, the publishing of additional books of scripture. (Isa. 29; 1 Ne. 13:39; 2 Ne. 29:11.) Third, a messenger to prepare the way before the Lord—John the Baptist. (Mal. 3:1-4.) Fourth, the coming of Elijah to restore the sealing powers of the priesthood. (Mal. 4:5-6.) Fifth, the gathering of the remnants of Israel, the Latter-day Saints, and the return of the Jews to the Holy Land. (Isa. 2:1-4; 11: 11-12; D&C 133:13; 45:25.) Event number five will continue until the second coming of Christ takes place. Other preparatory events which are prophesied are: (1) wars and rumors of wars (D&C 87), (2) natural calamities such as earthquakes, tidal waves, fires, diseases, and plagues (D&C 29: 14-20; 45:31-35), (3) increased wickedness (D&C 29:17; 63: 32-33; Morm. 8:26-41), and (4) the appearance of the sign of the Son of Man. Concerning the sign of the Son of Man, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: There will be wars and rumors of wars, signs in the heavens above and on the earth beneath, the sun turned into darkness and the moon to blood, earthquakes in divers places, the seas heaving beyond their bounds; then will appear one grand sign of the Son of Man in heaven. But what will the world do? They will say it is a planet, a comet, etc. But the Son of Man will come as the sign of the coming of the Son of Man, which will be as the light of the morning cometh out of the east. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 286-87; Matt. 24:30; Luke 21:25-27; D&C 88:93.) The Prophet said concerning one Hyrum Redding that he had not seen the sign, for the Lord would make it known to his prophet:... He has not seen the sign of the Son of Man, as foretold by Jesus; neither has any man, nor will any man, until after the sun shall have been darkened and the moon bathed in blood; for the Lord hath not shown me any such sign; and as the prophet saith, so it must be—"Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but He revealeth His secret unto His servants the prophets." (See Amos 3:7); Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 280.) Class Discussion In view of the predicted signs preceding the second coming of Christ, why would you consider that we are living in the last days? THE LOST TRIBES Preparatory to the coming of the Lord-in power and glory is the return of the ten lost tribes. After the death of King Solomon the ten tribes became a kingdom Lesson Department known as Israel. (James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith, p. 325.) The Assyrians took them captive in 721 B. C., and they were led northward and were lost to the world. (Jer. 3:12.) The resurrected Lord told the Nephites that the ten tribes had been led out of the land by the Father and that they were neither in the land of Jerusalem nor in any part of the land where he had ministered. (3 Ne. 15:15; 16:1.) These tribes are lost to us but not to the Lord. He told the Nephites that the lost tribes have their own scriptures. (2 Ne. 29: 11-14.) In modern revelation it is said that they will bring their rich treasures with them from the land of the north. (D&C 133:30.) It is further given that a highway will be cast up from the deep, and their enemies will be unable to stop their journey. (D&C 133:26-34.) THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST The coming of the Lord to which reference is usually made in the scriptures is his coming in great power and glory when the wicked will be destroyed. There is more than one appearance of the Savior, however, as a part of his second coming. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that in the last days the inhabitants of the world would be divided into the following three categories: (1) the saints, (2) the Jews, and (3) the wicked world. (DHC, Vol. 4, p. 610.) The second coming of Christ will consist of appearances to these three groups. The scriptures indicate that the Lord will suddenly come 619 August 1969 to his temple. (Mal. 3:1.) The Savior came to the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836, as a partial fulfillment of this prophecy. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. 3, pp. 12-13.) The complete fulfillment of this prophecy will come with the appearance of the Lord in the Jackson County, Missouri, temple, yet to be built. (D&C 84:1-5; 97:15-16; Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 7, p. 142 [hereafter referred to as JD.) Another visit of the Lord with the saints will be held at Adamondi-Ahman, located in Daviess County, Missouri. (D&C 116; Teachings of The Prophet Joseph Smith, page 157.) This conference will be attended by those who have held the keys of the priesthood during the dispensations of the gospel and others invited to the assemblage. It will apparently be unknown to the world and also to the saints not in attendance. (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection, pp. 287-91.) APPEARANCE TO THE JEWS AND TO THE WORLD The Savior will appear to the Jewish people when they are sorely beset by the armies of the earth. Almost overcome militarily (Zech. 14:1-2; Rev. 11:1-13; D&C 77:15), the people will have sought refuge in the Mount of Olives, which will have separated, and then the Lord will appear to them as their Messiah whom their fathers crucified. (D&C 45:51-53; Zech. 13:6; 12:8-14; 13:1.) Judah will be redeemed through acceptance of the ful- 620 ness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to dwell in the Lord's presence. (D&C 133:35.) The second coming of Christ in power to destroy the morally wicked will usher in his millennial reign. (D&C 63:54; 101: 23-24; 133:63-64; 45:74-75.) The wickedness of men will prevent them from abiding the presence of the Lord. (D&C 133:41-51.) President Charles W. Penrose describes this coming of the Lord in this manner: He comes! The earth shakes, and the tall mountains tremble; the mighty deep rolls back to the north as in fear, and the rent skies glow like molten brass. He comes! The dead saints burst forth from their tombs, and "those who are alive and remain" are "caught up" with them to meet him. [I Thess. 4:17.] The ungodly rush to hide themselves from his presence, and call upon the quivering rocks to cover them. He comes! With all the hosts of the righteous glorified. The breath of his lips strikes death to the wicked. His glory is a consuming fire. The proud and rebellious are as stubble; they are burned and "left neither root nor branch." He sweeps the earth "as with the besom of destruction." [Isa. 14:23.] He deluges the earth with the fiery floods of his wrath, and the filthinéss and abominations of the world are consumed. Satan and his dark hosts are taken and bound—the prince of the power of the air has lost his dominion, for he whose right it is to reign has come, and "the kingdoms of this world have become the Kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ." [Rev. 11:15.] (Roy W. Doxey, The Latter Day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, Vol. 4, p. 476.) KEYS TO PREPAREDNESS Wherefore, prepare ye for the coming of the Bridegroom; go ye, go ye out to meet him. (D&C 133:19.) Only through The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints may one be fully prepared to meet the Lord. (Wilford Woodruff, Young Woman's Journal, Vol. 5, pp. 512-13.) There shall be those among the members of the Church who will not be prepared, some being foolish while the prepared will be wise. (D&C 63:54; Wilford Woodruff, JD Vol. 18, p. 110.) What is there in the gospel that will aid the member of the Church to be among the wise? No other people on the earth _ have the knowledge successfully to be in this class. Some of the important teachings which prepare one for this blessing are: (1) the knowledge that the gospel with the priesthood have been restored, (2) Joseph Smith is a prophet and his successors have held the same high calling, (3) modern books of scriptures, (4) continuous revelation, (5) relationship of man to God, (6) the doctrine of premortality, (7) the purpose of life, and (8) the knowledge of and reality of the future life. Class Discussion Why do you think that knowledge of the foregoing facts helps a person to be prepared for the second coming of Christ? WHAT MUST BE DONE With so much evidence to support the truth as it has been restored, the Latter-day Saint is well fortified to follow the Lord's instructions as they have come from his servants. What specific things should one do to be considered wise? The following are suggestions: (1) remain out of the world, (2) accept priestLesson Department hood programs, and (3) secure one's family. NOT OF THE WORLD Go ye out from among the nations, even from Babylon, from the midst of wickedness, which is spiritual Babylon. (D&C 133:14.) The call has gone forth that Israel is to gather into the fold of Christ in preparation for the Lord's coming. Members of the kingdom have made covenants that they will not partake of worldly influences or practices. (D&C 20:37, 77, 79.) How may one prepare oneself so that he will not be deceived by the blandishments of the world? Be close to the Church; find strength by Church attendance; study and live the revealed word of the Lord so that it will be easier to know the genuine from the spurious; seek the Spirit; and acquire the virtue of humility. Class Discussion What does it mean to live in the world and yet not be of it? PRIESTHOOD ACCEPTANCE Priesthood programs of the Church are: genealogical, home teaching, missionary, and welfare. These programs are as much for the women as for the men. Upon each member of the Church devolves the responsibility to participate in all of them. As an example, although a woman does not do home teaching, she can promote the spirit of this important activity in her home by encouraging the priesthood members to do their 621 August 1969 duty and also to provide the atmosphere for good home teaching in her own home. Class Discussion How does activity in the priesthood programs of the Church help a woman to prepare herself for the second coming of Christ? SECURE ONE'S FAMILY Marriage in the temple provides a stability to a marriage union which the Lord intended. Since the family is designed to be eternal, every step necessary to preserve the marriage bond should be undertaken. Without the sealing ordinance by the priesthood in the temple there is no possibility of exaltation in the celestial kingdom. (D&C 131: 1-4: 132:16-17.) The Lord has said that people are to be saved as families; consequently, he commanded that parents should teach their children true principles that they might be saved with them. (D&C 68:25-31; 93: 47-49.) Two practices stand out prominently as necessary to preserve parents and children in righteousness. Family prayer binds families together, provides spiritual strength for the tasks of the day, and fulfills individual opportunities to acknowledge the Lord's hand in all things. (D&C 59:21.) The second important practice is the Family Home Evening Program. Probably no_ better opportunity is afforded both parents and children to learn together. The outlined course of instruction provided by the Church, if followed, will bring 622 family unity and improved individual character into the lives of all participants. CONCLUSION Latter-day Saints know that Christ will come to rule and reign on the earth in a period when there is great unrest and tribulation in the world. Many signs indicate that his coming is imminent. He will come in power to destroy the wicked. (D&C 101: 23-24.) Before this appearance he will come to the saints and also to the Jews who will have gathered to the Holy Land. The time interval between' these three appearances is not indicated in the scriptures. It is probable that the period between the coming of the Lord to the Jewish people and to the world will be short. IMPLEMENTATION The wise Latter-day Saint seeks to learn gospel principles that he may not be deceived by the many ideas which are contrary to the truth. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1: 37.) By this knowledge about his relationship to God and his fellow man, he receives the incentive and strength to prepare himself to avoid the temptations of the world. By the power of the Holy Ghost further strength and knowledge are received for this purpose. Specifically, the member of the Church is then qualified to remain out of the world though he lives in the world. His witness of the truth is such that he accepts his covenant responsibilities by being an active member. He makes every effort to receive the Lord's marriage ceremony and to rear his children in light and truth. (D&C 93:36-40.) The 'Latter-day Saints remember that they are representatives of the ten virgins mentioned in the Lord's parable, who may be either wise or foolish; consequently, they seek to be numbered among the wise. They Lesson Department will not be cast into the fire, for they look to the day when this promise is fulfilled: And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and _ they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation. For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their lawgiver. (D&C 45:58-59.) VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) a. Ee ere — Message 2—The Power of Example Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: To understand that one's example can impede or help others. "Children have more need of models than of critics." There is a family of several boys and girls. The father is a leader in the Church in his area. The mother, sometimes active, finds more and more excuses for not attending Church. She is critical of her bishop and other ward leaders. She 'finds fault with her stake president and many of the General Authorities. She is jealous and envious, belittling others in order to try to enhance her own position. Now the children are grown. The boys, some of whom have gone on missions, follow the good example of their devoted, faithful father. The girls without exception have married outside (Joseph Joubert in Pensées.) the Church, moved to large cities where they are inactive, two of them refusing to let their children be baptized. Such problem people are not new. Alma recognized in: his day that:. The wickedness of the church was a great stumbling block to those who did not belong to the church; and thus the church began to fail in its progress.... And he saw also that the example of the church began to lead those who were unbelievers on from one piece of iniquity to another. (Al. 4:10-11.): Once a great sinner himself, Alma perceived that in the Church there was inequality, proud people considering them- 623 August 1969 selves better than others and thus despising them, turning their backs on the needy, the naked, the hungry, the thirsty, the sick and_ afflicted, wearing costly apparel, envying, persecuting others, being full of malice and in conflict, and Alma said, "Now this was a great cause for lamentations among the people e (AL. 4:13.) There were others who were humble, succored the needy, fed the hungry, and suffered afflictions for Christ's sake. The general condition, however, was so bad that Alma gave up the judgment seat to work solely with the Church. Are there any of these problems among us? If so, what should we do? Jacob, speaking to the Nephites, said: Wherefore, ye shall remember your children, how that ye have grieved their hearts because of the example that ye have set before them; and also, remember HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness that ye may, because of your filthiness, bring your children unto destruction, and their sins be heaped upon your heads at the last day. (Jac. 3:10.) In later years when the dedicated sons of Mosiah were traveling to preach to the Lamanites, the Lord said to them, "Go forth among the Lamanites, thy brethren, and establish my word; yet ye shall be patient in _ longsuffering and afflictions, that ye may show forth good examples unto them in me, and I will make - an instrument of thee in my hands unto the salvation of many souls." (Al. 17:11.) The Apostle Paul advised, "... Be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity." (1 Tim. 4:12.) Modern and ancient lives teach us that our example can help others lead faithful, charitable lives or can lead them to forsake the counsels of God. ~ ay ————————. — Discussion 2—''She Perceiveth That Her Merchandise Is Good: Her Candle Goeth Not Out by Night." (Proverbs 31:18) Celestia J. Taylor. Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that buying wisely and saving regularly are basic to good money management. 624 INTRODUCTION In the complicated rhythm of today's world, it becomes increasingly evident that these vital, basic values lhe in the home and its management: the patterns which establish our way of hfe and standard of living, the goals which determine the use of our energies and resources, the choices which govern our spending and saving—all originate in the home. Only to the degree that we develop our ability to meet these challenges efficiently and wisely, will we be successful home managers. Since our primary concern this year is a program of family preparedness, we need to know how to utilize our resources to the best advantage by wise buying and regular saving. Not many people are in a position to buy a full supply of food, clothing, and other necessities at once, but by working out a regular program of buying a little at a time, it is surprising how the stockpile will grow. The sense of satisfaction that we feel in seeing food and other needed supplies on our shelves is much the same as that which we feel at having money in the bank. DEVELOPING OUR SHOPPING SKILLS Buying wisely is an art which must be learned and practiced if we are to make the best use of our resources. We need to consider the amount of time, energy, and money we have and decide how best to use them in supplying our needs and achieving our goals. The following Lesson Department suggestions may be used as guidelines: 1. We should anticipate our needs. If we plan ahead of time, we can shop at our convenience, we can take time to find what we want, and we can avoid impulse buying which can upset our budget. 2. We need to know how much we can afford to spend. This will help us to control our spending and limit it to those things which best serve our purpose. It will also prevent indiscriminate spending. 3. We need to make a practical shopping list. This will help us to select the items which we want and need. We should let the list govern what we buy. A. When shopping for food we should consider the likes and dislikes of our family members. Even food which is to be stored should appeal to the appetites of the family. B. When shopping for basic supplies we should buy in quantity and quality suitable to our purpose. 4. We should compare prices and values in different stores. Merchandise, prices, and values vary. 5. We should take advantage of sales. Sales offer us an opportunity to purchase provisions at reduced prices and get good values for our money. A. We should know what we want and need. Aimless shopping often results in waste. B. We should know the original price of sale items to be sure of getting real value. C. We should be sure of the quality of sales goods. Some stores stock merchandise for sales which is not of the same quality as their general run of merchandise. D. We should know when to shop the sales. Watch advertisements for the most advantageous time to buy needed items. End-of-month and end-of-season sales generally offer the best values. Keep in mind that nothing is a bargain unless needed. 625 August 1969 6. We should take advantage of cash buying. A. Buying only what we have money to pay for is a safety control on spending. B. Paying as we go eliminates additional carrying costs. 7. Weshould buy in quantity when possible and advantageous. 8. We should know how and take time to read labels, seals, contracts, warranties, guarantees, and certifications. 9. We should make intelligent use of reliable consumer buying information. 10. We should establish agreeable business relationships. It helps to become acquainted with the business firms where we shop regularly and to deal fairly and honestly with all who serve us. CONCLUSION Learning to shop wisely not only helps us to add to our. Store of provisions, but it also represents a definite saving of our resources of time, energy, and money. It is our responsibility as well as our opportunity to be - efficient managers of our financial spending and saving. SS SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 2—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 2 Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 6 and.7.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out that understanding the difference between immutable, spiritual and physical laws and the regulations which apply to them, may influence one's attitude toward the regulations. INTRODUCTION Our Heavenly Father, with infinite wisdom and understanding, seemingly reveals admonition and warning to his earth children when that counsel and commandment may be most 626 needed and rewarding. How beneficial the divine counsel may be depends upon our willingness to accept and follow the revealed commandment. In lessons 6 and 7 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President Clark points out several occasions when this divine counsel and warning have been given to us. (Other examples might be cited.) This correlating lesson considers these occasions and also distinguishes between the principle involved in the law and the rules and regulations which make possible the enforcement of the law. Again, much will be quoted directly from the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study since President Clark's clarification of the subject is both logically and interestingly expressed. RESTRAINT—WHEN? Consider the example of ancient Israel to whom the law of the Lord was given, by way of restraint, in the affirmative commandment of the Decalogue, "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." (Exod. 20:3.) How needed this commandment was at that particular time is evident when we recall that Israel, newly emancipated from Egyptian bondage, was spiritually weak as a result of having lived for generations in an idolatrous land. The liberated people were now moving into a land (Canaan) inhabited by a people who likewise were idolators, worshipping many gods, and practicing human sacrifice. These environments were not compatible with the life the chosen people were to live if they were to carry out the work which God had planned for them. The idolatrous practices were not consistent with the building of a personal moral life nor with the building of stable homes upon which a Lesson Department righteous and sound society is dependent. President Clark states: God's work could not then, and cannot now, be maintained in partnership with a worship which calls for the heathenish practices of human sacrifice and grossly immoral rites. Our own civilization cannot be preserved in the presence of such heathenish practices, for a moment's reflection will show how human sacrifice would outrage every feeling of humanity that generations have fostered.... In our time when the Western world has come to a worship of one God only, the need for such a commandment, as among ourselves, is no longer necessary, unless it is to be applied figuratively. (It may be parenthetically observed that such an application might not be a strained one, for modern man-chas, in a too large extent, made materialism his god.) (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 6.) Thus we see how important it was for this restraining commandment to be given at that particular time. OTHER EXAMPLES Another example of restraining counsel given in a time of special need, is the law of health known to us of today as the Word of Wisdom. We discuss it here: 1. Asa restraint or forewarning given at a time of special need. 2. As an example that truth, although relating to the physical body, is as unchanging—unless some other law intervenes—as the immutable laws governing other areas of the physical universe. Although the Word of Wisdom was revealed to us before scientific research had given us the confirming facts of which we now are aware, modern — science 627 August 1969 supports the claims of this law of health. An interesting point of view is clarified by President Clark: It is demonstrated that nicotine, alcohol, tannin, and caffein exert their effects upon the body, and the Lord and modern science say these effects are harmful. These effects are visited upon us whether we wish the effects or not; whether we consent to them or disprove them. These noxious things enforce their own mandates against the body, no other agency is necessary or used. This is the law. Some complain about the Word of Wisdom as if it were a rule of conduct imposed upon them by the Church authorities, and so a rule that could be changed by the Church authorities. In accordance with this idea certain persons have suggested changes or modifications of the Word of Wisdom. But the Word of Wisdom is not a rule of conduct; it is a law — the Lord's law — of health. It was promulgated by him. The law existed before he told it to us; it would exist if the revelation were blotted out from the book. The Church authorities have nothing to do with the law. God, speaking through the forces of the physical world, has prescribed it, and so long as those forces exist, the law will remain. It is therefore the foolish ignorance of a child to assume that the First Presidency can issue a rule that will permit the use of any of these injurious things without their harmful effects. It would be an easy and, in one sense, a pleasing gesture, as satisfying Church members who wish to use these harmful substances to declare the Word of Wisdom no longer existent. But such a declaration would be no more efficacious than a declaration that the law of gravitation no longer operates. (Ibid., lesson 7.) For Discussion 1. Perhaps you are one who has wished that. The Word of Wisdom might be modified or withdrawn. If so, does the foregoing approach to this law of health add a new dimension to your thinking? 628 2. How may the attitude toward the Word of Wisdom presented by President Clark improve one's thinking relationship to the Church authorities? 3. Would young people be influenced more favorably toward acceptance of this divine admonition if they were taught, from the beginning, that it is not merely a restraint imposed upon them by the Church but an unchanging law of health? ACCORDING TO KNOWLEDGE AND SURROUNDINGS It is relevant to recall that the Lord also gave a law of health to ancient Israel during the days of wandering in the wilderness. It was a dietary and sanitary code, given through Moses, and was founded on scientific principles. One of the prohibitions of that code was that the Israelites should not eat sea foods unless they had fins and scales. President Clark states: Today we eat many wholesome seafoods that do not meet this ancient requirement. Again it must be said that it is not for me to attempt to suggest the reasons why the Lord gave this great law, nor the reasons why he made this and other dietary distinctions. But looking at the matter from the point of view of human knowledge, one reason why the Lord forbade such things to ancient Israel might have been the extreme perishability of certain sea foods which would not be found either in the wilderness or in Palestine, seafoods which rapidly decay, and which, in decaying, generate poisons destructive of health and, indeed, of life itself. Ancient Israel had no such rapid transportation as would enable the delivery of such food materials while they were still fresh, and no refrigerating processes by which they might preserve such sea food materials pending the time they were to be eaten. Under such conditions, even a wise human lawgiver would today enact such a law as was given to ancient Israel, and for the reasons I have suggested. But in our time, with our rapid transportation, our efficient refrigeration, such seafoods may be _ properly preserved and, so preserved, seem as wholesome as other sea foods that have fins and scales; the Lord has not forbidden these foods to us and we eat them. (Ibid.) Question Does this discussion by President Clark give you a different point of view as to this ancient dietary code? Discuss briefly. BY WAY OF COMPARISON It may be observed in passing that the difference in the character of the two codes of laws given and of the things proscribed in each is an important illustration and example of how God speaks to a people in accordance with their stage of knowledge, their culture, and their surroundings. I do not pretend to say why the Lord gave to Israel some commands and withheld others. But this much may be said. It was seemingly unnecessary to forbid the use of tobacco, tea, and coffee to ancient Israel, for apparently they knew nothing of these things; and alcoholism though forbidden to the priests under certain conditions and discountenanced to the people, had not taken hold of them. It was unnecessary in our day to give the intimate instructions of the Mosaic code concerning sanitation and diet because science was revealing to us the laws relating to such things and we were generaily obeying them. But our science had not yet reached, when the Word of Wisdom was given, accepted conclusions upon drugs and narcotics, nor upon the effects of alcoholism which had become almost a besetting sin. In this situation the Lord revealed his modern law of health. So God spoke to each people in the language and terms they understood and in accordance with their needs. (Ibid.) Application Applying this same reasoning to teaching within the home, discuss the following questions: Lesson Department 1. What are some of the important restraints suitable for children under twelve years of age? 2. What are the restraints most needed by teenagers, generally, but not needed by older children in the home? 3. Do mothers frequently wait to give admonition—restraining requests— until it is too late for the child to receive the blessing that obedience would have brought? Discuss. AS A LAMP We frequently fail to distinguish between the principle of the law and the regulations established to help us live the law. If we do not consider the basic purpose and principle of the law we may develop unwarranted, prejudiced attitudes. We may resent the regulations, failing to see that they are as a lamp guiding us to the blessings which obedience would inevitably bring. We also forget that the basic truth of the law, being immutable, does not change although the rules and regulations may change from time to time according to our conditions and needs. ILLUSTRATIONS FROM SITUATIONS IN THIS LESSON Example 1: a. The basic law is "... Evidently the Lord's... People must be healthy and clean." (Ibid.) b. The code of dietary restraints was regulations intended to help ancient Israel remain healthy. Example 2: a. The basic law of health would apply to the Lord's people today as anciently. B. The Word of Wisdom, which implements the Lord's law gf health, is intended to help us today remain a healthy and intelligent people. The law of health and cleanliness has not changed but the 629 August 1969 regulation to secure obedience to the law has changed with the change in the manner of our living. - Implementation 1. Name some restraining laws which are useful and important to you, where the regulations are not now needed because of your increased knowledge. 2. When we were children we were forbidden to eat excessively of certain foods. This was the regulation of our household. The law of moderation is still important to me but, knowing the undesirable effects of excessive eating, I no longer need this household regulation. 3. Other examples of regulations follow: a. When a man in a crowded bus, subway, or other similar situation gives up his seat to a mother carrying an infant, he is carrying out a socially enforced regulation in support of the law of consideration for womankind. B. The code of desirable behavior taught to the Boy Scouts also illustrates the difference between regulations, and such _ specific laws as: honesty, patriotism, kindness, health, first aid, survival. AN IMPORTANT FACTOR There is a difference between the operation of unchanging physical laws of the universe, and the operation of intellectual and spiritual laws. In the latter, the human will is an important factor. The personal will of an individual may modify the exercise or penalty of the law. For example, let us say that the penalties for breaking the law of honesty are: 1. Loss of personal friends. 2. A guilty conscience. 3. Forfeiting the confidence of others. 630 4. The tangible effect of one's dishonesty upon those who suffer loss because of the dishonest action. If, however, this person through personal will power repents and puts himself in a position to be forgiven, the penalty is modified much as the asbestos gloves may modify the burning effects of heat. Other examples may be suggested and discussed. CONCLUSION The concluding remarks of President Clark in lesson 7 of the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study are a fitting conclusion for this lesson: It is the first duty of... Latterday Saints prayerfully to seek to know the law that they may render obedience to it, and next to learn the rule and regulation that they may diligently and reverently study them, that they may understand, know the reasons for, and live them. Many will be surprised to learn how understanding wipes out prejudice, resentment, and _ rebellion against those rules of life which make for righteousness. A This much may be said with certainty and with no possible successful challenge: The.... People of the Church will search in vain for any law or rule or regulation of the Church, obedience to which will not make them better citizens, give them a richer cultural life, and bring to them a greater joy and peace: than they have ever before known; they will search in vain for law, rule, or regulation, obedience to which will bring any lasting shade of sorrow or tinge of regret. This cannot be said for much of the new "freedom" which too many unthinking have taken into their lives. For Home Doing Help yourself to freedom by trying to live in harmony with the laws of life, both spiritually and physically. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 2—The Role of Education Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Two By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas ''The object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things but enjoy them.'' —John Ruskin Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that the development of individual capacity is a primary source of social or community strength. ART "The Girl in White'' by Julien Alden Weir (1832-1919) American, Harris Fine Arts Center, Brigham Young University Collection, Provo, Utah. (June 1969 Relief Society Magazine, page 448.) Commentary on art selection by Floyd E. Brienholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University. (June 1969 Relief Society Magazine, page 449.) INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS A close study of "The Girl in White," provides a rewarding educational experience in that one learns about the personality and tastes of the artist. To the more casual observer, however, the picture represents an educational experience on another level—the experience of a lovely child involved in the beauty and wonders of nature. "J. Alden Weir enjoyed the beautiful in life. It became an integral part of him. He also found a technique peculiar to him by which he could pass this on to us in the form of his paintings; a technique which harmonized with his _personality and his special way of seeing. Such men of integrity and character play an important role in our education. As John Ruskin says, "The object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things but enjoy them.'"' Throughout the entire history of the Church there has been an emphasis upon education. From the very beginning schools were established at all levels and Church members were encouraged to cultivate not only gospel knowledge and the skills of 631 August 1969 learning but also the cultural arts. The goal has always been to build in the hearts of Latterday Saints an informed faith, an enlightened testimony. Rather than being hostile to knowledge and the arts, the Church has encouraged and sponsored them —hence the rich program of cultural activities emphasizing drama, dance, music, literature, public speaking, etc., in the auxihlary organizations as well as the vast network of schools, seminaries, institutes, and colleges provided by the Church. Nor are these just modern developments. A study of the pioneer days of the Church will reveal that in spite of the struggle for food, clothing, and homes, priority was given to schools, theaters, and music halls, along with chapels and temples, for the pioneers understood that the mind and the spirit need food for growth just as vitally as does the physical body. Their westward-bound wagons were loaded with books and musical instruments as well as spinning wheels and blacksmith forges. Many of the pioneers were self-educated, but most of them were nevertheless educated, even to the point of consciously cultivating skill in elocution, rhetoric, and penmanship. This is our pioneer heritage! No wonder we look back with admiration and a glow of pride, not only for the pioneers' great spiritual and physical courage as they triumphed over human persecution and the hostile, barren desert lands, but also for their love of the beautiful and the intellectually uplifting. "... Seek ye diligently and teach 632 one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith." (D&C 88:118.) Thus the Lord gave counsel through the Prophet Joseph Smith as the gospel was being restored, urging us above all else to study the scriptures but also to study other things. What other things? In Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord instructed us that we are to "... Teach one another... In all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God...." including, in_ his words, "... Things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms." (D&C 88:77-79.) In Section 90 he advised us to "... Become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people." (D&C 90: 15.) In Section 93, we are counseled to "... Obtain a knowledge of history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man, and all this for the salvation of Zion." (D&C 93:53.) We are even promised that "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection," for "... If a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (D&C 130: 18-19.) Not only Joseph Smith as he was inspired of the Lord but also Brigham Young stressed the need for learning. Listen to the words of President Young: All the knowledge, wisdom, power, and glory that have been bestowed upon the nations of the earth, from the days of Adam till now, must be gathered home to Zion. Every art and science known and studied by the children of men is comprised within the Gospel. See that your children are properly educated in the rudiments of their mother tongue, and then let them proceed to higher branches of learning; let them become more informed in every department of true and useful learning than their fathers are. When they have become well acquainted with their language, let them study other languages, and make themselves fully acquainted with the manners, customs, laws, governments and literature of other nations, peoples and tongues. Let them also learn all the truth pertaining to the arts and sciences, and how to apply the same to their temporal wants. Let them study things that are upon the earth, that are in the earth, and that are in the heavens. (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 245-46, and 252.) Now, as in the past, those we sustain as our living prophets encourage us to develop our talents and widen our intellectual and cultural horizons as evidenced not only by their encouragement of education but also by the breadth of their own reading. All of us know how abundantly President McKay and the other General Authorities enrich their talks and writings with passages drawn from the great literature of the world. Listen also as President McKay counsels us to harmonize learning with character: Lesson Department Wisdom is the right application of knowledge; and true education—the education for which the Church stands— is the application of knowledge to the development of a noble and a Godlike character.... True education seeks to make men and women not only good mathematicians, proficient linguists, profound scientists, or brilliant literary lights, but also honest men combined with virtue, temperance, and brotherly love—men and women who prize truth, justice, wisdom, benevolence, and selfcontrol as the choicest acquisitions of a successful life. (From Preface to booklet on L. D. S. Church Schools, 1968.) Our first responsibility as members of the Church is to study the scriptures and the words of the modern prophets for the fullness of the gospel that they contain. But beyond these we are invited to explore the best writings of the world for the supplemental knowledge and insight that these can give. At their best both religion and literature are concerned with building faith and affirming spiritual values and with opposing and exposing evil, worldliness, superficiality, and all things base and. False. Space for this lesson allows us to print only three brief selections on education: Excerpts from "What Makes a Great Book?" by Mortimer Adler, "Cipher in the Snow" by Jean Mizer, and "He Ate and Drank the Precious Words" by Emily Dickinson. In the textbook five other selections are printed with questions and comments intended to stimulate thought and discussion about the proper goals of education and about techniques teachers can use to achieve those goals: (1) an essay by Samuel Scudder describing how famous 633 August 1969 Professor Louis Agassiz taught a great lesson about learning through observation, (2) some excerpts from the dialogues of Plato showing how the great Socrates provoked his students into thought by asking provocative questions, (3) a short story by Irwin Edman showing a modern Socrates in action, (4) some excerpts from the writings of the author identifying some of the goals and techniques of good teaching, especially for Latter-day Saint teachers, and (5) ahumorous poem with a point by Leigh Hunt. "WHAT MAKES A GREAT BOOK?" BY MORTIMER J. ADLER In Volume 1, p. 19 of Out of the Best Books, we printed an essay by Mortimer Adler, a distinguished American educator. Because it is such an excellent statement on the power of great books to enlarge and elevate the mind we have decided to reprint it in Volume 5. The following are excerpts from this essay: Great books are those that contain the best materials on which the human mind can work in order to gain insight, understanding, and wisdom. Carl Van Doren once referred to great books as "the books that never have to be written again." They are the rare, perfect achievements of sustained excellence. The richness of great books shows itself in the many levels of meaning they contain. They lend themselves to a variety of interpretations. We need not read other books more than once to get all that they have to say. But we can always go deeper into great books. As sources of enlightenment, they are inexhaustible. 634. Great books transcend the provincial limits of their origin. They remain as world literature, the ones men everywhere turn to again and again through the centuries. Mark Twain once remarked that "The great books are the books that everyone wishes he had read, but no one wants to read." Great books are not easy to read. No one should expect to understand them very well on a first reading, nor even to master them fully after many readings. I have often said that they are the books which are over everyone's head all of the time. That is why they must be read and reread. That is also why they are good for us. Only the things which are over our head can lift us up. "CIPHER IN THE SNOW" This dramatic real-life story was written by Jean E. Mizer, a teacher and counselor in Wood River High School, Hailey, Idaho. The story received the first-place award of $1000 in the National Education Association's 1964 Teachers' Writing Contest and was published in the NEA Journal for November 1964. According to the author the story is true but the names and location have been changed. Cipher in the Snow It started with tragedy on a biting cold February "morning. I was driving behind the Milford Corners bus as I did most snowy mornings on my way to school. It veered and stopped short at the hotel, which: it had no business doing, and I was annoyed as I had to come to an unexpected stop. A boy lurched out of the bus, reeled,. Stumbled, and collapsed on the snowbank at the curb. The bus driver and I reached him at. The same mo- ment. His thin, hollow face was white even against the snow. "He's dead," the driver whispered. It didn't register for a minute. I glanced quickly at the scared young faces staring down at us from the school bus. "A doctor! Quick! ['ll phone from the howel." "No use. I tell you he's dead." The driver looked down at the boy's still form. "He never even said he felt bad," he muttered, "just tapped me on the shoulder and said, real quiet, 'I'm sorry. I have to get off at the hotel.' That's all. Polite and apologizing like." At school, the giggling, shuffling morning noise quieted as the news went down the halls. I passed a huddle of girls. "Who was it? Who dropped dead on the way to school?" I heard one of them half-whisper. _ "Don't know his name; some kid from Milford Corners," was the reply. It was like that in the faculty room and the principal's office. "I'd appreciate your going out to tell the parents," the principal told me. "They haven't a phone and, anyway, somebody from school should go there in person. I'll cover your classes." "Why me?" I asked. "Wouldn't it be better if you did it?" "I didn't know the boy," the principal admitted levelly. "And in last year's sophomore personalities column I note that you were listed as his favorite teacher." I drove through the snow and cold down the bad canyon road to the Evans place and Lesson Department thought about the boy, Cliff Evans. His favorite' teacher! I thought. He hasn't spoken two words to me in two years! I could see him in my mind's eye all right, sitting back there in the last seat in my afternoon literature class. He came in the room by himself and left by himself. "Cliff Evans," I muttered to myself, "a boy who never talked." I thought a minute. "A boy who never smiled. I never saw him smile once." The big ranch kitchen was clean and warm. I blurted out my news somehow. Mrs. Evans reached blindly toward a chair. "He never said anything about bein' ailing." His stepfather snorted. "He ain't said nothin' about anything since I moved in here." Mrs. Evans pushed a pan to the back of the stove and began to untie her apron. "Now hold on,' her husband snapped. "I got to have breakfast before I go to town. Nothin' we can do now anyway. If Cliff hadn't been so dumb, he'd have told us he didn't feel good." After school I sat in the office and stared bleakly at the records spread out before me. I was to close the file and write the obituary for the school paper. The almost bare sheets mocked the effort. Cliff Evans, white, never legally adopted by stepfather, five young half-brothers and sisters. These meager strands of information and the lst of D grades were all the records had to offer. Cliff Evans had silently come in the school door in the mornings and gone out the school 635 August 1969 door in the evenings, and that was all. He had never belonged to a club. He had never played on a team. He had never held an office. As far as I could tell, he had never done one happy, noisy kid thing. He had never been anybody at all. How do you go about making a boy into a zero? The gradeschool records showed me. The first and second grade teachers' annotations read "sweet, shy child": "timid but eager." Then the third grade note had opened the attack. Some teacher had written in a good, firm hand, "Cliff won't talk. Uncooperative. Slow learner." The other academic sheep had followed with "dull"; "slow-witted"; "low Il. Q." They became correct. The boy's I. Q. Score in the ninth grade was listed at 83. But his I. Q. In the third grade had been 106. The score didn't go under 100 until the seventh grade. Even shy, timid, sweet children have resilence. It takes time to break them. I stomped to the typewriter and wrote a savage report pointing out what education had done to Chiff Evans. I slapped a copy on the principal's desk and another in the sad, dog-eared file. I banged the typewriter and slammed the file and crashed the door shut, but I didn't feel much better. A little boy kept walking after me, a little boy with a peaked, pale face; a skinny body in faded jeans; and big eyes that had looked and searched for a long time and then had become veiled. I could guess how many times he'd been chosen last to play 636 sides in a game, how many whispered child conversations had excluded him, how many times he hadn't been asked. I could see and hear the faces and voices that said over and over, "You're dumb. You're dumb. You're a nothing, Cliff Evans." A child is a believing creature. Cliff undoubtedly believed them. Suddenly it seemed clear to me: When finally there was nothing left at all for Cliff Evans, he collapsed on a snowbank and went away. The doctor might list 'heart failure" as the cause of death, but that wouldn't change my mind. We couldn't find ten students in the school who had known Cliff well enough to attend the funeral as his friends. So the student body officers and a committee from the junior class went as a group to the church, being politely sad. I attended the services with them, and sat through it with a lump of cold lead in my chest and a big resolve growing through me. I've never forgotten Cliff Evans nor that resolve. He has been my challenge year after year, class after class. I look up and down the rows carefully each September at the unfamiliar faces. I look for veiled eyes or bodies scrouged into a seat in an alien world. "Look, kids," I say silently, "I may not do anything else for you this year, but not one of you is going to come out of here a nobody. Ill work or fight to the bitter end doing battle with society and the school board, but I won't have one of you coming out of here thinking himself a zero." Most of the time—not always, but most of the time—I've succeeded. For Discussion 1. What is the meaning of the title "Cipher in the Snow''? 2. If the need to reach the lonely, insecure child is urgent in public school teaching, why is it equally urgent: (a) in our teaching within the Church? (b) to the woman in Relief Society? And (c) for the mother to reach the child in the home? "HE ATE AND DRANK THE PRECIOUS WORDS" We will give Emily Dickinson the final word in. This lesson on education as she talks about the power of books to liberate and give wings to the human spirit. After all that other people can say in essay and in speech, the poet—the great poet—can often say it better and in fewer words as Emily Dickinson does here: He ate and drank the precious words, His spirit grew robust; He knew no more that he was poor, Nor that his frame was dust. He danced along the dingy days, And this bequest of wings Was but a book. What liberty A loosened spirit brings! These selections should aid us all in taking advantage of our opportunities for education. And always we have before us the example of the world's greatest teacher, Christ himself, who exemplified in both his life and his words the statement by Thomas Henry Huxley that the ultimate goal of education is "to learn what is true in order to do what is right." Lesson Department Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS. Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces with commentaries... Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12'', 331 rpm record) with commentaries Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Produced by Educational Media Service of Brigham Young University May be ordered or picked up from Deseret Book Company outlets in Orange, California; Ogden, Cottonwood Mall and Salt Lake City, Utah PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * Hill Cumorah Pageant 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th * Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 18th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 12th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 637 August 1969 AT THE PIANO My little girl is practicing At the piano, can you hear? Her tiny fingers falter, The notes are not quite clear. Her head is tipped so earnestly As key is matched with note; She doesn't play the melody That the composer wrote. She'll be no concert artist, There's not talent or the time. If she can play the Hymn Book We'll both be suited fine. —Bette Saxton Learn a Career with a future Rose Elder Ada Mortensen We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student approved 08 8 @, Send now for te "6, our brochure 4 % 22 N. Country Club Drive; o>, Mesa, Arizona 85201 ARE YOU STORING WHEAT? Don't let it spoil! Keep it on a regular turnover basis. We suggest an ELECTRIC ALL-GRAIN Available in two sizes Easy terms - Write for information Headquarters for breadmixers and Corona Wheat Mills SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 North Main, Smithfield, Utah 84335 \ — Clenezet. / Beesley MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers'' 'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos _ Instruments And Supplies Come in and acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 BRIGHT PRELUDE Through memories' corridor You come A whisper Light as thistledown, To rouse a fond Reflection. Beauty beyond thought Bright prelude Lesson Department New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Of reality, — "a: Zone land2 _._.5 one5 -~___. F Linger, Zone3.__.---.60 Zone6 - _ 85 Breathe aes Zonya. _ 95 And blossom. Zone8._.--1.05 —Margaret B. Shomaker a —_— 7 PESERET F—RPEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Travel Agency 1970 Tours MEXICO Only $359 from Provo, Utah Includes entertainment, sightseeing, and ocean cruise Early June 1969—February 1970 January 16 — 24 days — Yucatan, Oaxaca, Veracruz, Mexico City, Mazatlan, Guadalajara, Acapulco, Taxco — $499 January 22—12 days February 20—17 days,$359 February 22—10 days HAWAII CANADIAN TOKYO WORLD'S four islands NORTH-WEST FAIR AND ORIENT only $389 Special rates for groups ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS'' Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 = Pg 639 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and. Zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 103 102 99 98 97 96 95 Mrs. Annie Catherine Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah Mrs. Sarah Luella Scovil Hendricksen Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Jemima Chelnecha Damron Barron Inkom, Idaho Mrs. Josephine P. Workman Fawcett St. George, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Cluff McDonald Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emma Wickham Dunkley 'Preston, Idaho Mrs. Gustella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Montebello, Catifornia 93 Mrs. 'Nettie Allred Asay Boyce Powell, Wyoming Mrs. Ida May Briles Heryford Red Bluff, California Mrs. Mary Foster Jarrell Lapoint, Utah Mrs. Jane Agar Lawton Brainerd, Minnesota Mrs. Millesant Wheelock Wilson Gillette, Wyoming 92 91 90 Mrs. Louise Neilsen Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret McKinley Jensen Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Charlotte Norris Wonnacott Long Beach, California 'Mrs. Elizabeth Ajax Tooele, Utah Mrs. Minerva Olive Allen Biggs Draper, Utah Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown Centerville, Utah Mrs. Rosa Dale Ashcraft Hudson Filer, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth N. Latham Scottsdale, Arizona Mrs. Marion Nettie Bows Montgomery Twin Falls, idaho Mrs. Margaret Ann Turner Worley Wellington, Utah Mrs. Josephine Larson Hunter American Fork, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Vogel Adams Martin Sandy, Utah Mrs. Lavina Arsula Spencer Olsen Jerome, Idaho Mrs. Rachel King Stutzneggar Manti, Utah Mrs. Carrie Marie Nielsen Larsen _ Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. June Veach Burt Salt Lake City, Utah Mirs. Agnes Ellen Ambler Young Coalville, Utah Order Now For Delivery When Ready OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Volume 5 $3.25 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas The Relief Society's Cultural Refinement course for 1969-70 will be taken from Out of the Best Books, Volume 5. The theme for this volume is "Community Responsibility.' Selected from the world's greatest literature, you may learn more about The Role of Education The Meaning of Freedom The Power of Work and The Use of Leisure and many other subjects. Volume 5 will NOT be available until mid-September, but ORDERS PLACED NOW will be filled in the sequence received. SEND ORDERS NOW! Postage will be paid for SURFACE MAIL anywhere in the world. Customer must pay for AIRMAIL requests. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Vol. 5 MerelCost$ i.| enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account [] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Aug. R. S. Mag. 69 \ Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 
