The -Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: NO WORDS LEARNED The world was exceedingly small that day From cabin to river and orchard-wide And only as tall as the tallest tree, But filtered with light through the petals of May, An arm of fence and a well beside, And empty of all but a girl of three With no past history remembered long And few words learned for her baby song. Oh, there was a little girl And she had flowers in her hair And on her dress And in her shoes. The world has grown great-grandmother old And as tall as an answered prayer. (The river still runs, but is no longer young And the withered old orchard has long been sold.) Horizons have widened from joy to despair And words have been learned for a voluble tongue Since that memoried day many Mays ago But none yet for blossoms repeated in snow. —Alice Morrey Bailey Trees That Lean Over Water, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Springtime Flowers Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Model Wendy Anderson Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 

From Near and Far I am writing this letter for the sole purpose of congratulating and thanking you for
the beautiful Magazine, which is the strength of Relief Society. When I read the
October 1968 Magazine, I found the message of Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council
of the Twelve. It made me feel very grateful and proud to belong to a Church which
speaks of the gospel in its fulness. I know that you concern yourselves with the problems
of the young women of the Church. In my ward I have read Elder Lee's article
as many times as I have had the opportunity, and each time I read it I feel more joy
for this message has helped me to bring into activity serveral women who were not
attending Relief Society. Me\^ Zapata de Mejia, Mexico City, Mexico
In reading the fine issue— the February Magazine— this morning, I am moved by the
fine writing in the article "Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is," by Margery S. Cannon.
I also think the poem "Silence," by Christie Lund Coles is a fine one.
Bernice Ames, Los Angeles, California
I wish to express my appreciation of The Relief Society Magazine. I have been Magazine
representative for two and a half years. The sisters in the ward are happy to receive
their copies and read the serials and the lessons. There are five subscribers
not of our faith, and they all tell me how much they enjoy trying out the recipes and
making things from time to time. To me the Magazine is a book that is a help at all
times, and especially when I feel lonely or depressed, I pick up the Magazine and it
certainly gives me a lift. Edith Irene Houghton, Geelong, North Victoria, Australia
I loved the beautiful February frontispiece poem "Silence" by Christie Lund Coles, also
Pearle Olsen's "I Think of Beaches," so attractively set up.
Beulah H. Sadleir, Salt Lake City, Utah
I think I have read the Magazine since it was first published and I have always been
anxious for each copy to come. I enjoy the comments and letters in the From Near
and Far department. I noticed one letter from a woman in Indiana whom I knew
when she was not a member of the Church, and who is now a member, and a dear
former neighbor with the birthdays— Bertha A. Kleinman, ninety-one. Many readers
of the Magazine will recall her poetry and writings for many years back.
Emeline L. Lynds, Fontana, Caliiornia
I especially enjoy the pictures in the Magazine and the Notes From the Field. In the
February issue when I saw the Note from Juab Stake, there was a picture that seemed
to jump right off the page to greet me. At the time when I was growing up in Nephi,
Utah, Sister Cazier was president of the stake Relief Society, and we were her neighbors.
The first thing I read in the Magazine was the story "A Day for Diddle-Daddling,"
by Alice Morrey Bailey. It seemed just like a visit with my dear departed mother.
Callie's mother sounded just like my own. Florence S. Anderson, Kearns, Utah
It is a blessing for me to have the Magazine, for usually I am a long way from our
home ward as we move so often. I especially enjoy the Magazine and all the Relief
Society organizations I visit, for I never feel alone or as a stranger.
Leah Hancock Standiford, Taylor, Arizona
I was so interested in the article "Who Will Show Her How?" (about handicrafts) by
Dorothy F. Condry in the January Magazine. I feel that I am a kindred spirit. I like
the poetry of Gladys Hesser Burnham very much. She was a schoolmate of mine.
Mrs. Myron Hansen, Collinston, Utah

The Relief SOCICTY Magazine volume 56 May 1969 Number 5 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 324 'With Singleness of Heart'' Mayola R. Miltenberger 330 = Is Discipline a Problem? Frances B. Barlow 334 The Carlyies: Thomas and Jane and Their Philosophy About Work Mabel Jones Gabbott Fiction 338 A Piteous Day Alice Stratton 348 The Hardest Work Sally Ann Roehl 352 'And When Ye Shall Receive These Things'' Margaret L. Phelps 358 The Rebirth Nancy Tuddenham 381 Welcome the Task—Chapter 7 Michele Bartmess General Features 322 From Near and Far 343. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 344 Editorial—A Blessing for the Hemispheres Vesta P. Crawford 400 __— Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 347 =' The Everlasting Hills Joyce B. Maughan 357 Tree of Magic Betty Mazzacano 363 Harvest of Fulfillment Betty G. Spencer 365 Mothers Emily T. Wilkerson 366 Make Your Own Draperies Edythe K. Watson 374 Lost Forever—One Expression of Love E. Grace Stanford 376 Recipe for Pavlova Patricia R. Watkins 378 Staff of Life Barbara G. Toomer Lesson Department 395 Homemaking—House Plants Celestia J. Taylor Poetry 321 No Words Learned Alice Morrey Bailey May Dividends, Beulah Huish Sadleir 329; Impressionist Painting, Linda Lorraine Olson 333; The Lowly Places, Bertha A. Kleinman 336; Wish for Fair Weather, Maxine R. Jennings 337; This Land of Mine, Joyce Trimmer 342; A Mothers Prayer, Oneita B. Sumsion, 346; To a Grandson, Christie Lund Coles, 346; Little Mother, Evelyn Fjeldsted, 346; A Tribute, Bernice Cheshire Harding 356; Hameland, Jean Paul Clark 362; Perception, Grace Diane Jessen 363; When Mothers Sing, Olga Milius 373; My Tapestry, Ruth G. Rothe 373; ''Eternal Kingdom,"' Lorna Nelson 375; Mount Rainier, Dorothy J. Roberts 386. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111: Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 323 

 of Relief Society ay AT Marion Rogers and Leonora Smith Rogers @ Mother's rendition of "Catch the Sunshine" was a vigorous accompaniment to the staccato of her heels as they traversed the kitchen floor—back and forth—back and forth. These sounds, together with the rattle of pots and pans, announced that the Saturday routine had begun. My mother was and is a great believer in keeping the Sabbath Day holy and has always been an exemplar of how advance preparation and planning can assure proper observance of the day and, at the same time, provide the family restful comfort and a good midday dinner served with "singleness of heart" Sunday noon. We children were allowed 324 ReCe IIS \ a to stay in bed slightly longer on Saturday mornings; yet our share of the work awaited us. As each of us girls became old enough, she was given responsibility for placing clean _ bed linens on our beds, sweeping and dusting our rooms, folding hair ribbons, and otherwise bringing order and cleanliness to our bedrooms. We also had some duties of a less personal nature. My sisters and I must sweep the porches and walks which extended halfway around the house, dust the furniture, and sometimes "run through the house with the mop," Mother's descriptive term for a dry mop dusting of the hardwood floors. My _ brother: must keep the woodbox filled with chopped wood and cedar chips for mother's big black Monarch stove. Most of the time, we children worked at snail's pace interspersed with a little "horseplay," unless motivated by a desire to finish so that we might join a playmate or unless urged to finish by a "certain tone" in mother's voice. One Saturday job, rotated among the four of us, was that tedious task of churning our butter. The wooden barrel-like churn, with its tall dasher, was rolled into the center of the kitchen floor, and the child assigned was shrouded in a big bib apron. 'With Singleness of Heart"' Pound, pound, splash! Pound, pound, splash! On and on she toiled until, at long last, tiny curds of butter appeared on the lid and mother took over, gathering, lifting the yellow ball of butter from its milk, washing, salting, and molding the finished product. Ten loaves of bread lay rising in the big black pans and a pot of beans for Saturday night supper simmered on the stove by midmorning. Certain parts of Saturday seemed endless—hair was shampooed with "caught" rain water and homemade soap, shoes were shined, Sunday dresses pressed, and Dad's Sunday suit and white shirt were scrutinized. What a busy day! But on Sunday morning, a quiet calm reigned throughout the clean house as the family prepared to attend Sabbath meetings. Mother's first activity on Sunday morning centered on assisting my father in any way needed to get ready to attend priesthood meeting, then she had a few restful moments to herself, after which she assisted in the tying of hair ribbons, buttoning of dresses and shoes for the children, so that all would be on time for Sunday School. As very young children, we did not fully comprehend nor appreciate the value of this lesson being taught us, but all of us have greatly benefited The Missionary Family—Standing in_ front, left to right: Mayola Rogers Miltenberger, Louise Rogers Preston, Bess Rogers Ericksen. Seated in rear: Leonora Smith Rogers (mother) holding baby Marion Roscoe Rogers, born after Father's departure for a foreign mission. 3 May 1969 by it, as we have the home training we received in other aspects. For example, Church service was always a part of life at home no matter what was asked. Devoted response to requests of the leaders of the Church was a tradition on both sides of the family. My grandparents went to Arizona to help colonize at the call of Brigham Young, which they did at great sacrifice inasmuch as it involved leaving comfortable homes and _ dear ones and coming to a remote, difficult area. My father's and mother's willing and obedient service to the Church was an example to us in many ways and at many times throughout our lives, but it was no more clearly demonstrated than when I was about nine or ten years old. We were then a family of three children (and another one on the way), when my father was asked to fill a mission in England. It was not unusual for men with families, as well as single men, to be asked to go. I cannot remember the details of the family deliberations, but my father's departure is still vivid in my memory. I recently read an excerpt from Mother's Journal which illustrates: The bishop spoke to Marion [my father] about a mission and after he explained our "condition" and talked it over with me [my mother], decided to accept the call. I was five months along in a pregnancy, but felt quite willing to make the sacrifice and trust to a Higher Power to watch over us so he could go. Dad had sufficient funds from a successful road contract to see him through the mission, but 326 Mother had to provide for herself and us children. She did this, after my brother's birth, two months after my father left, by taking schoolteachers and student boarders from our local high school. The Lord greatly blessed our family and my father during this time and provided another tremendous lesson to the children. For as far back as I can remember, the women in Mother's family have been active Relief Society workers. Therefore, the term "Relief Society" conjured up many mental images and responses in us children. When one of my sisters was a little girl of about four or five years of age, she wandered next door to observe a_ non-Latter-day Saint man at work in his carpenter shop. He was smoking. Said Louise, "They don't like you to smoke, Mr. Chafee." "Who doesn't like me to smoke, Louise?" he inquired. "Oh, the 'Lief Society!" replied Louise. My mother, my grandmother, and great-grandmother were all Relief Society stake presidents who served diligently for many years. My mother's own tenure was_ seventeen years, during which time the family not only shared mother, but our resources, and, in final analysis, were actually involved in a variety of projects. There were quilt and blanket projects in which needy families were helped to acquire necessary bedding during the depression; an immunization project to protect children and adults against diptheria and smallpox; a dental project, the building of a Relief Society The Rogers' home in Snowflake, Arizona, completed in 1918. Sponsored maternity hospital, and many more. Not only was Mother a diligent Church worker, but she took part in community affairs as well. Her good home management, her own humanitarian inclinations, and my father's generosity and encouragement permitted her to serve several terms, first as a member and then as chairman of the County Child Welfare Board, a forerunner to the County Welfare System. Along with the more mundane affairs of our family life, my memories of our home are interlaced with pleasant images of family occasions, family fun, and even adventures into the arts, if that is what one could call the sounds which came forth from beginners on the violin, horn, clarinet, and piano. Mother had in mind there would someday be a family orchestra; therefore, considerable time, money, and effort were expended on music lessons given by our town music. Teacher, Brother Rufus Crandell. In this, Mother was considerably more strongly motived than were her somewhat reluctant "artists," and in order for all of us to get through a rendition simultaneously and harmoniously, Mother labored long hours pointing to notes with a ruler, which she _ occasionally used to tap a balky finger. In spite of the fact that our repertoire never expanded much beyond "The Shepherd's Dream," this introduction to music was important to us and, in time, we found joy in listening to and savoring good music. Our home, thanks to Mother's management, had many excellent books which we enjoyed greatly. The storybooks were threadbare by the time we were grown for, in spite of her busy, active 327 May 1969 life, Mother found time for the bedtime story. One of my fondest memories was Mother's expressive reading of one of the fairy tales which transported us into imaginary kingdoms as vividly as_ those seen on television today. Thursdays were looked forward to when we were young, for that was the evening when the family gathered for "Home Night," as it was called then. For those events, Mother was the moving force even though she worked more or less in the background. She always made the children feel important as she designated one each week to be in charge. This meant we could assist in planning the program. This nearly always consisted of stories or discussions regarding certain religious or moral doctrines, with poems and songs interspersed. But the part we children looked forward to with greatest anticipation was the "party"—the games and refreshments which followed the "program." "Pretty bird, my cup, what color is yours?" Round and round the child or parent went with fingers poised in a small cup of water waiting for the moment when one of us guessed the color "it" had in mind. A correct guess signaled squeals of surprise as a drop of water was flicked into the face of the lucky one who then became the possessor of the "cup," and the game progressed. After a few rounds of "Pretty Bird," the dining-room chairs and table were pushed back for a rousing, scuffing game of "Pussy Wants a Corner." This usually 328 came at the end of the evening, for it left all of us laughing and breathlessly ready for the "pass around" and bed. As a young girl, I can remember periods when my parents passed through financial struggles as they worked together to acquire the necessities of life and money for the extras, such as college to come later for the children. There was just no money at one time—no road jobs were available for bidding. Horses and road building equipment stood idle. Creditors, too, were hungry, therefore they eyed any asset of value—cows, calves, horses, land. A national depression plagued the land! Mother, frugal and resourceful as she was, really was no match for these problems, but it was beyond her thinking to seek employment outside the home, prepared as she was to teach. After all, wasn't she a wife and mother? Didn't she have a husband and four children to care for? Someone had to attend to home and family, while Dad matched his wits and brawn against the crisis! Mother did have certain resources she was quite willing to use, however, and did so frequently—faith, and prayer, and works! Both parents bent to the challenge, each assuming appropriate roles, but cooperating and laboring together to free themselves of debt. Mother cut corners everywhere possible. We never knew hunger, but our usual ample larder was considerably reduced. Mother skimped on clothing as_ she patched, darned, remodeled, and made-do. I can remember yet, wearing underclothing which despite bleaching still bore the imprint of Silver Creek Flour Mills—Love Me brand. Probably at no time in our lives were we ever so short of necessities, but out of this trying experience came a great opportunity to observe firsthand the operation of another great principle of the gospel—tithing. Mother's faith in the Lord has always been absolute; therefore, she talked with him frequently. It almost seemed impractical at a time when our financial needs were so great to pay tithing, but Mother had confidence that the "windows of heaven" would be opened if we were faithful to this commandment. At one time she promised the Lord that if he would give our family imspiration and opportunity for earning, she would exercise her influence in the family so that a full and honest tithe would always be paid. '"'With Singleness of Heart" Things did improve for us, and for as long as I can remember, Mother's commitment has been kept. Hers and my father's obligation to the Lord has been taken care of monthly before income has been counted as their own. Of course, after things eased a bit, it was great to be able to have a few new things after doing without. My Grandmother Smith once remarked to Mother, upon admiring some new gingham dresses Mother made for us, "Leonora, it is so good to see your girls in a new piece of goods." Mother and Dad came from pioneer backgrounds. We children grew up in a simple country atmosphere, and yet ours was a rich, loving experience with our parents until my father's passing and a continuing one now with the head of our family, our spry, busy, affectionate, eighty-threeyear-old mother, Leonora 5S. Rogers. E Speak my name in whispers As new May appears: She has no lusty voice, Breathing her way Through shiny foliage And soft-fallen tears. Speak my name in whispers, Reliving pleasures In a tiny town, Child queen in fairy Dress, with lilac crown. MAY DIVIDENDS & Whisper on, as | Recall those faces Of my childhood friends; Faces young and joyful, Sighting not the promise Life extends: And | shall whisper back To you—in time, Of love-filled years, Of all May's dividends. —Beulah Huish Sadleir 329 ~~ Trt TL et w "How can I get my child to do what I say?" Parents have asked this question for many years, and probably will continue to do so throughout many generations to come. To some parents this question means, "How can I discipline (or punish) Jimmie if he doesn't do what I think he should, when I think he should?" Such parents are so concerned with finding a device or trick to bring about the response they want that they lose sight of the end they are really trying to attain. Discipline, for them, becomes largely a matter of punishment, rather than an essential step in the slow building up of a child's learning of what is right or wrong, acceptable or not. Many parents unfortunately believe that children learn faster when they are punished. This is not so. Children learn the best and the most important things without being taught, from those who love and care for them. The infant, lying in his crib or on his mother's lap, knows instinctively when she is pleased with him and when she is not. If she smiles and holds him securely with gentle affection, he feels comfortable and warm. If her face holds a frown, her 330 we WU WU < ts Discipline a Problem? Frances B. Barlow Associate Professor, Child Development Brigham Young University CVI body is tense, and she dresses or feeds him impatiently or with angry jerks, he senses that something is wrong. Today, more than ever, parents are confused and groping for a clear understanding of how to deal with the question of discipline. It is not strange that parents are confused. The discipline pendulum has swung between extremes. In the nineteen twenties there was a strong reaction against the repressive "Children should be seen and not heard" and the stern, sometimes harsh, "Spare the rod and spoil the child" dictates and practices of former days. It was soon recognized that such a completely authoritarian viewpoint failed to recognize the nature and needs of a growing child, and also that it was poor training for a democratic way of life. Some parents and teachers abandoned all authoritative control, permitting children to do almost anything and everything the child wanted to do. An attitude of complete permissiveness—letting a child behave in any way short of actual bodily injury to himself and others—was sometimes advocated. Children from such homes became insecure. They were forced to make decisions they were incapable of making. It seems obvious that neither an extreme authoritarianism nor an extreme permissiveness can be a sound method of bringing up a child—either for his own healthy personality development or for preparing him to be a mature, responsible citizen of a democratic, free society. The problem of gaining an intelligent, and middle-of-the-road viewpoint, based on the nature and needs of both child and a free society, has become a crucial one today. Parents need not be discouraged by these changes in viewpoints of child rearing if they understand what causes them. They reflect social changes which affect values and goals regarding the kind of behavior considered desirable. All children misbehave. Mother's reaction to the child when he is misbehaving determines, in a large measure, if he will continue such behavior or discard it in favor of more positive constructive behavior. Children have to make mistakes to learn. Praise them for what they do right. Generally speaking, most children know when they have done wrong, so don't rub it in. Changing an attitude can change behavior. Minimize the mistakes of your child. Emphasizing mistakes and bad habits communicates to the child distrust and little faith which stimulate feelings of worthlessness and "what's the use?" Self-esteem is so vital to everyone, especially children. It has been found that parents have it within their power to give a child high self-esteem. Is Discipline a Problem? Parents cannot turn to specialists for easy and complete answers to their problems of child rearing. Common sense -cannot be discarded to be replaced by specific techniques. Fads and styles exist in child rearing as in other kinds of practices, and should be recognized for what they are. Most specialists agree that the methods of child rearing they advise parents to use must be both intellectually and emotionally acceptable to the fathers and mothers who carry them out. Otherwise parents cannot follow them successfully and are likely to develop unjustifiable feelings of inadequacy and guilt. "Today we recognize the importance of accepting the child for what he is and that each child is different and his needs are to be met. He needs to feel that he himself is accepted under any and all circumstances. But this does not mean that any and all kinds of behavior on his part are to be accepted. In fact, we have recognized that the actual "setting of limits,' making clear what he is not permitted to do, helps the child feel secure. Many questions concerning discipline and freedom are controversial. Let us clarify our thinking by defining just what we mean by discipline. Discipline was originally a term for training, learning, and order. The word implied the art of making disciples; that is, an individual who was disciplined became a disciple or follower of one's teacher or of a particular way of thinking or living. Nowhere in Latin usage did it have the unpleasant implication of punishment which is 3a4 May 1969 associated with it people's minds today. Discipline in its true meaning implies a voluntary following of rules or principles. All good discipline eventually becomes selfdiscipline. Our purpose in disciplining a child is to train him so that he learns to choose for himself constructive behavior patterns and desirable goals. We discipline a child in order that he may eventually be qualified for freedom. Through discipline he develops the self-control, the self-discipline he needs in order to become able to obey his selfformulated will and the laws which he helps to establish. Freedom can be achieved only through discipline because only a self-disciplined person can be truly free. Children should experience both freedom and control at all stages of their development. They need to experience four types of behavior through which they mature in self-discipline, responsibility, and freedom: in many 1. Behavior which is insisted upon by adults. No parent would allow a two or three-year-old to play in the street or decide when he or she should go to bed. This type of behavior is limited, for the most part, to danger situations, health, and the rights of others. 2. Behavior in which the child has a limited choice within a controlled situation. In this type of behavior he may choose between two vegetables at mealtime, a choice out of two dresses to wear, or what toys to play with. 3. Behavior in which the child has complete freedom of choice (within his ability to accept consequences). In this type of behavior, the child gradually learns to accept complete responsibility for his behavior, a responsibility he must eventually accept as an adult. He should be encouraged to make decisions. Thus Mary may choose the books to be bor- 332 rowed from the library, or what to do after her school work is done. A great deal is at stake in these simple decisions. If she is not allowed to make them as a child, she will not have the courage to persevere in later years when the problems are tougher. 4. Behavior in which group control is established. In this type of situation, responsibility for their behavior is assumed by the children themselves. The group must work out methods of cooperation and ways to secure durable behavior from its individual members. Group control cannot be expected until children are seven or eight years old, but training can begin earlier. Experiments in group control provide fundamental training in a democratic way of life. Examples of these four types of behavior would, of course, differ with the ages of children. As children become older there would be less of the first type and more of the other three types. Adults need to safeguard children from doing things that may bring consequences with which they cannot cope. In situations of physical danger and health, in social situations which arouse childish aggressive feelings, they need to know that their parents understand and can help them control their behavior. The child looks for love and security and order within the home. Once a child knows that he is respected and counts for something within his home, he will be eager and able to meet the outside world. The child who feels alone, struggling against criticism and hostile feelings, has little chance. The child who knows that there are adults who will help and guide him when he needs it, and who will, at the same time, allow him to go ahead because they have confidence in him, for this child the doors of life are open wide. Encouragement is most important. Those who need encouragement and respect may get it the least. It is hard to praise the difficult child and easy to praise the agreeable one. An honest way must be found to give praise to every child. No book, agency, or pediatrician can tell you exactly how to bring your child up, because you and your child are different from anybody else and anybody else's child. No mother or father will be able always to respond to children in an ideal way, nor should they hold up that kind of expectations for themselves. Occasional bursts of irritability are only natural, after all. Children will accept them as such if they know that they can count on their parents' basic love and understanding. Is Discipline a Problem? Whatever devices you use to get obedience and to uphold authority are relatively unimportant compared to the attitude you bring to bear on the situation. Such attitudes are developed: If you can stop thinking of your child as "good" or as "bad," but as learning. If you can think of discipline as training rather than punishment. If you can look far enough ahead for him and teach him so that someday he will not need you. If you can give him self-esteem so that he feels like a worthwhile person. If you can give through your love and example values that he can understand. If you can accept him for what he is and not force him to be someone else. If you can do these things, and at the same time enjoy your child in each swiftly passing phase, then truly the old bugbear "the discipline problem" will dissolve into the splendid process of learning how to live. SS IMPRESSIONIST PAINTING Standing here—a bit too close— | wondered if that daub of red Meant anything beside the bit of blue. It's such a tiny fleck of color in the whole. But once away—back to the vantage That the artist had in mind— | saw those two become the purple of a setting sun While greens and brown That had been but disjointed dabs of paint At once dissolved into the majesty of trees. Each speck, brushed deftly into place, Each doing its small part, Was vital to the work when seen complete. Then why should | not look to him who placed me here If my work seems, as yet, unclear to me? Am | the red of sunset or the green of tree? He knows and waits but for my heart to ask To show me where to stand that | may see. —Linda Lorraine Olson 333 Carlyles: Thomas and Jane and Their Philosophy About Work Mabel Jones Gabbott mw Thomas Carlyle, born in 1795 in Ecclefechan, Dumfriesshire, Scotland, the oldest of nine children, was taught the value of work in his childhood. With his father, a frugal stonemason, he could say, "Blessed is he who has found his work," and "there ls a perennial nobleness in work." James Carlyle realized that his son had unusual abilities and sacrificed to provide a good education for him. When Thomas Carlyle was fourteen years old, he walked ninety miles to enter the University of Edinburgh. He had planned to study for the ministry, but instead became a teacher. He was too independent to enjoy teaching on a regular basis, but tolerated private tutoring. Meanwhile, he continued his studies in German and began to write for magazines in Edin- 334 burgh. His first important work was the Life of Schiller, the German poet. Other works included Sartor Resartus, Burns, Past and Present, and Frederick the Great. Carlyle knew intimately the meaning of work. After he had completed the first volume of The French Revolution, in 1837, he gave it to his friend, John Stuart Mill, to read. One of Mill's servants used the manuscript to start a fire. All of Carlyle's notes had been destroyed and he struggled to reproduce his masterpiece. The rewritten book was a success and established Carlyle's genius in the literary world of his times. Well could he say, "The wages of every noble work do yet lie in heaven." In the writings of Thomas Carlyle, we find over and over this philosophy regarding work: "Do the duty that lies nearest at hand." With regard to women's work, his wife Jane Welsh Carlyle at one time explained that "It is not the greatness or the littleness of the 'duty nearest at hand' but the spirit in which one does it that makes one's doing noble or mean." Jane Welsh and Thomas Carlyle had been married in October 1826. She loved him with a rare devotion and determined that he should never write for money, but only when he had something to say. Since his writing was their source of income, she had to manage carefully and well whatever money came to them. After eighteen months of happiness, new friends, and some successes in his writing in Edinburgh, Carlyle decided to save expenses by moving to Craigenputtock. Craigenputtock, Scotland, has been described as "the dreariest spot in all the British dominions." Craigenputtock was Jane Welsh's own ancestral property; her father had been borry there. The tenants were in arrears, and Mrs. Welsh, who lived nearby at Templand, was glad to have her daughter move to Craigenputtock. In 1828, when Thomas and Jane Carlyle made it their home, the old house stood gaunt and stern, quite alone on the sparse moors. The nearest cottage was a mile away. Jane Welsh had been an only child, born to wealth and servants and a life of art and culture. She describes herself as being "sublimely ignorant of every branch of useful knowledge, though a capital Latin scholar The Carlyles: Thomas and Jane and a very fair mathematician." In this out-of-the-way place, Mrs. Carlyle found she had to learn to sew. "Husbands," she says, "I was shocked to find, wear their stockings into holes, and were always losing buttons, and I was expected to 'look to all that.'" At this time also she found she had to learn to cook. Carlyle had expected the quietness and simplicity of the life at Craigenputtock to cure all his ailments. But his ills went with him, which Mrs. Carlyle described as "bad digestion." At first the Carlyles bought their bread from the baker at Dumfries, about sixteen miles away. But Carlyle soon found this "soured on his stomach." So Jane Carlyle decided to bake at home. She sent for Cobbett's Cottage Economy, and studied the recipe for a loaf of bread. (We are told that when Jane made her first pudding for Carlyle she locked herself alone in the kitchen so no one would disturb her accurate measuring of ingredients. ) Knowing little about the processes of yeast and their slowrising powers; Mrs. Carlyle was not ready to bake the bread until long past everyone's bedtime hour. "One o'clock struck," she says, "then two, and then three; and still I was sitting there in an immense solitude, my whole body aching with weariness, my heart aching with a sense of forlornness and degradation. That I, who had been so petted at home, whose comfort had been studied by everybody in the house, who had never been required to do anything but cul- 335 . May 1969 tivate my mind, should have to pass all those hours of the night in watching a loaf of bread— which might not turn out bread after all!" Alone in that -ancient kitchen Jane began to feel sorry for herself. Then, somehow, she remembered the story of Benvenuto Cellini who sat up all night watching his famed = statue, "Perseus," being baked in the furnace. She began to think what was the difference, after all, between her and Cellini, between his statue and her loaf of bread. Each was a noble work; each was the thing one's hand had found to do. All his will, energy, patience, and resources had gone into the molding of his statue. But had Cellini been a woman living in Craigenputtock, with a dyspeptic husband,'sixteen miles from abaker, perhaps all his artistic qualities could have done no better than a loaf-of bread. As this idea filled her mind, her watching became a joy, and the loaf of bread, golden and light when it came from the oven, was more precious than a work of art. During the years Jane lived at Craigenputtock this night's thinking often sustained her. Her patience, understanding, and endurance, and the spirit in which she did "the duty nearest at hand" contributed greatly to the noble work her famous husband accomplished. Reference: Life of Thomas Carlyle, Volume II, pp. 24-25, by J. A. Froude = — =. <> <> + -~ _ See e = aw — -— THE LOWLY PLACES The distant peaks with glinting spires and steeples, Are not for me—my place is far below, Where valleys teem and hurried toiling peoples Must face the everydays that come and go. The battlefield with all its urge and glory, "Is not for me—my home is far away, Where hero-lust and lore are only story, And petty cares must fill my every day. The walks of fame—the high and lofty places, Are not for me—the hero ranks are few, And | must tread the lowly rutted spaces And there perfect the humble things | do. The day so big must teem with deeds so little, His imaged race must toil at tasks so small, That somewhere when he weighs each jot and tittle, His love—I know—will justify them all. 336 —Bertha A. Kleinman Pool in Springtime ) ay: Dorothy J. Roberts WISH FOR FAIR WEATHER Wind, Needle the patchwork hill, If you will, And scissor the willow to a winter fringe, But, oh, wind, fold the lake gently; pleat the water— Gather it in wide white ruffles; Fashion a fine gown For sky, That shy Blue matron of autumn To wear tomorrow. —Maxine R. Jennings —_— ee m@ Daddy always refers to it as "the happening," and to him I guess it was. You see, Daddy is very practical minded—like bread and butter without jelly. Susan and I were playing paper dolls under the dining room table one evening. We played in whispers so as not to be noticed, for it was getting late and we might be hustled off to bed. "Tt's about time they learned the difference between the real and the imaginary," Daddy was saying. We knew we were being discussed again. "Nonsense," Grandma retorted. "There's nothing far-fetched about seeing an elephant turn into a peacock." "Nothing but an exaggerated imagination. I think they should call a cloud a cloud, instead of an elephant or a peacock. It's just the idea of the thing. They fabricate something unreal out 338 Pa. A + wt BES it: Ltt se asa Pas irk iG 5 Alice Stratton of everything. Take tonight. Instead of simply putting the supper dishes away, they twitched their noses and went 'dingle, dingle' and bewitched them into the cupboard. I tell you, that pair should be brought down to earth and made to talk normal and act normal just once." We had heard all this before, so we went on playing. The most worn-out phrase in Daddy's vocabulary was "exaggerated imagination,' and he always used it when he talked about us. Usually he would end up saying, "Someday, something will happen that will bring them down to earth hard, and it's going to hurt." Grandma's answer was always the same, "Pity the day." So we were expecting that piteous day, although we had no idea what was supposed to happen. The next day was Saturday, and Daddy and Grandma were in the garden tying up rose runners. Susan and I hurried through our work, for usually on Saturdays we could go upon the hill to play. We had built a fairyland there. With old spoons we had dug out a king's castle and a witches' den in the bank of a dry gully. We had a sardine can for a chariot and white bones for horses. We had gathered hollyhocks and were sticking black currant heads on them and piling them into a shoe box. "Why didn't you leave stems on your flowers? How can you arrange them this way?" Daddy asked. Susan spoke up. "They aren't flowers." The muscles in Daddy's jaw worked. "They are hollyhocks, and hollyhocks are flowers." I could feel a lecture coming on so I hurried to explain. "We know they are hollyhocks, Daddy, but when you put heads on them, they become people, like this ruffy pink one. She is a fairy princess, don't you see?" "No, I don't see." "Now may we go to fairyland?" I asked. Daddy's eyes shot "Where?" he demanded. Ducking my head, I mumbled, "We want to go upon the hill." "Well, why didn't you say so? A hill is a hill, understand?" "Yes, Daddy. May we go now?" "All right. But don't stay too long." With our digging spoons and shoe box, we scurried out the gate. On the way up the hill we gathered sego lilies and Indian paintbrush for the fairy garden sparks. A Piteous Day which had to be planted fresh each time we came to play. Clearing away the old dried flowers, we poked the fresh stems down to where the sand was damp. Just then a_ lizzard streaked past. "A fire-eating dragon!" Susan shrieked and shot after him. Tripping, she sprawled to her hands and knees, then froze to the spot. Her eyes and mouth open wide, and she stared as if in a trance. "Look!" she whispered, pointing her finger. I squatted beside her and looked. "All I can see is an old chicken egg." She came unfrozen. "It isn't a chicken egg. What chicken would come up here to lay?" "Then, what is it?" I asked. "It is the dragon. He turned himself into an egg just as I fell. I saw him." I crawled over to examine the egg. It was innocent looking enough, lying there on the bare earth. I poked around the bush with a stick. "See, here's a hole. Susan, a snake could have laid the egg." "But a snake didn't. This is a bewitched egg. Inside is a dragon which is really under a witch's spell. When we break the egg, the spell will be broken and the prince will be set free." "When we break the egg, little snakes might run up our arms and legs." I shuddered. She gave me a look of contempt. Dumping the hollyhocks, she stuffed the shoe box with chaparral and cradled the egg inside. "Come on, let's go." "But we came to play," I protested. "Our people will be ruined." 389 May 1969 "So what! There are plenty more hollyhocks. Don't you see? This is an important happening." Then she chanted, "We'll set the prince free, under the mulberry tree!" She clutched the box to her and we began our descent. Suddenly she stopped. "Listen," she whispered. "I hear something inside."' She held the box for me to listen. There was the scratching sound of chaparral twigs against the lid. "Something is running around inside," I said. Scornfully she said, "No prince would run around in a shoe box." "All right then, what do you think you can hear?" She put her ear to the box. "It is the prince, sending us a message in code.... He is promising us a reward for setting him free!" y NT the way home we speculated on what the reward would be. The possibilities grew more exciting with each step of the way. We ran the last stretch, and were out of breath when we reached our yard. "Land sakes!" Grandma exclaimed. "Back already?" Then scrutinizing us she asked, "What happened? You look as if you'd seen an apparition." We could not speak for our throats were dry. Susan thrust the box at Grandma, who lifted the lid. Daddy put down his shovel and looked. "Well, what do you know! Old Speckle is laying again." "Oh, no!" Susan __panted, "Speck didn't lay this egg. This isn't a laid egg." 340 "Of course it is. You can see it for yourself." "No, Daddy. I saw a dragon change himself into this egg." Daddy looked sternly at us. "Young ladies! Bring that box here and sit down. We're going to have a talk. You come along, too, Grandma." He and Grandma took the lawn chairs and Susan and I sprawled on the grass. "Now," he said with the formality of a judge, "will you repeat that last remark, Susan?" "T saw a dragon change himself into this egg," she repeated solemnly. "Kathy, did you see _ the dragon?" he inquired of me. I nodded. "What did he look like?" "Something like a lizzard," I stammered. "Umm humm If we put this unlaid egg under Old Speckle, then we can hatch us a dragon." "Oh, no, Daddy, we mustn't do that!" Susan protested. "If we hatch it, then the prince would have to be a dragon forever. We have to break the spell!" Sternly Daddy said, "Very well! We will break the spell now! In the first place you saw a lizzard—not a dragon, mind you—upon the hill—and not in fairyland. Get that straight?" The very air felt as brittle as shattering glass. Surely this was a piteous day! Then to our astonished ears came Grandma's laugh. "Tch, tch, tch," she chuckled. "The hill it is nowadays and not fairyland, when such a few short years ago it was the prairie where a small boy galloped on his stick horses chasing Injuns." Annoyed, Daddy said, "All right, all right.... Now where were we? Oh, yes, the egg. Where did you get it?" As Susan told her story, Daddy's brows were drawn with perplexity. "Now what do we do?" he inquired. "Tt is simple. I will need a silver knife. Kathy and I will sit under the mulberry tree and you and Grandma can watch. We'll all say 'abbracadabra,' then I'll whack the egg. The shell will crack and the prince will step out. He'll be big instantly and stand and bow before us and kiss our hands and ask us which we'd rather have, a golden carriage or a helicopter and we'll take the helicopter." "T see,' Daddy said. "Go fetch the silver knife at once." As Susan flew to the house, Daddy turned to Grandma and said, "Mark my word, those two are due for a fall. This fabricated, (_S A Piteous Day imaginary, ridiculous world of theirs is about to tumble before our eyes. They are going to be hurt. Now you will understand the harm an exaggerated imagination can do." This was going to be more than a piteous day. This was doomsday! Hopefully I scanned Grandma's face, searching for a grain of comfort. Sadly she shook her head. "It is a pity children are forced to grow up so soon." How baffling! Were we going suddenly to become big like the bewitched prince was supposed to do? Susan returned with the knife and everyone did as she said. We had to say "abbracadabra" three times before it suited her. Then she whacked the egg. The world stopped turning and the sun stood still. My spine tingled and goose pimples popped out all over me. If a volcano should have erupted behind me, I uld not have taken my eyes off he egg. Susan held it away from ber and a firm yellow yolk, surounded by clear white, plopped /-onto the grass. No one spoke. She raised up on her hands and knees, leaning over the magical thing. "Wow!" she exclaimed. "Wow! ' Take a look! A blob of gold in a puddle of crystal!" Then she sat back on her heels and laughed. Relieved, I rolled with laughter on the grass. Drooping like yesterday's sego lily, Daddy slumped down on a stump. With elbows on knees and chin in hands he studied us. Grandma pulled her low weeding stool next to him and sat down. With ill-concealed merriment, 341 May 1969 she said, "Well, son, they took quite a tumble, didn't they! They sure act hurt." Daddy was the one who seemed to be hurt, but he recovered. Clapping his hands with a loud pop, he demanded, "You little vixens, come here!" Laughing we scrambled to his side. "What are you laughing for? Where is your prince?" he scowled. "He left his gift and scrammed," Susan said. "Some gift! A raw egg. Where's the helicopter? Why aren't you crying miserably with disappointment?" "Daddy, you're so funny," I giggled. '""We were only pretending, don't you see?" "It was mighty real pretending," he insisted. "Good pretending always is," I explained. He spread his hands in a wide, helpless gesture, and we flung ourselves into his arms. "Tell me, kittens," he said tenderly, "how can you conjure up something so real and then let it vanish without being sad? Don't you feel like crying?" Susan snuggled her cheek against his. "No, Daddy. You see, grownups. Pretend, _ too. When Grandma calls us 'punkin' she doesn't cry because she can't make pie out of us. Just now you called us 'kittens.' Do you want to cry because we aren't covered with fur and have whiskers? Pretending is fun. Your pretending makes us feel soft and cuddly and loved." Daddy burst into a_ hearty laugh. Grandma laughed, too. "T love piteous days," I exclaimed. "They are fun." Jovially Daddy said, "This is a happening, little kitten." THIS LAND OF MINE Brown, sunburnt land, where heat abounds In layers of hard, dry, crusted earth; The creek beds once caressed by waters cool and sweet, Are now as bricks, baked black, like peat. Old Ben stood there remembering, how In days gone by, with dog at heel, He roamed the valleys, every one, Hunting for game, and ducks with graceful fun Came wheeling and diving out of the sun To land with perfection, in this very spot. How softened by shade, although so hot To the touch are the mounds of earth Where tree roots are growing, all tangled with age. And kookaburras shout their song of mirth, This is Australia, the country of my birth. —Joyce Trimmer Glennoy, Australia ages 342 i, Ae » Woman's f. Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was honored February 26, 1969, by the Women's Council of the Latter-day Saints Student Association (LDSSA) of the University of Utah. The program was held in the Tabernacle, and women of college age were invited to attend. One of President McKay's poems, set to music, was sung by the choir and President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency, Bishop Robert L. Simpson of the Presiding Bishopric, and Elder Marion D. Hanks, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, gave inspiring addresses regarding the glorious role of women in the Church and in the world. A tribute to Sister McKay was given by her daughter, Emma Rae McKay Ashton. Chairman for the occasion was Joan Carlston, President, LDSSA. Louise Bogan, eminent American poet, has been elected to membership in the American Academy of Arts and Letters to fill the chair left vacant by the death of Carl Sandburg. Her induction will take place in May 1969. Princess Irene of Greece, sister of King Constantine, is a renowned concert pianist. A student of Gina Bachauer, distinguished Greek pianist, her Royal Highness Princess Irene has been declared ''a dedicated, serious musician, who plays in a fully professional manner.'' She has made several tours of the United States, and in February 1969, she and Madame Bachauer performed with the Utah Symphony Orchestra under the baton of Maurice Abravanel. Sewing as a hobby and as a household art is increasing in importance, several recent surveys among high school girls have revealed. Sewing, it was found, helps the girls to have more variety in their clothing, helps them to stretch their clothing budgets, and gives them a rewarding creative outlet. Golda Meir has been appointed Prime Minister of Israel, the fourth Prime Minister to serve since Israel became a nation in May 1948, and the first woman to serve her country in this capacity. Only three other women have received this honor: Mrs. Solomon Bandaranaike, Prime Minister of Ceylon (1960-65), Indira Gandhi, who became Prime Minister of India in 1966 and is still serving; and Ana Pauker of Romania. Ann Woodbury Hafen, Latter-day Saint poet, literary critic, and distinguished historian, is author of Campfire Frontier (Old West Publishing Company, Denver, Colorado), historical poems and stories of the Old West. Recognized for many years as co-historian and able helpmate of her well-known husband, Dr. LeRoy R. Hafen, she has achieved many honors for her own writing of notable poetry and biographies. She is a former president of the Utah State Poetry Society and is greatly appreciated for her encouragement of poets and poetry. Campfire Frontier contains seventeen biographical sketches, vividly narrated, and the second section offers a selection of outstanding poems. 343 EDITORIAL/A Blessing For The Hemispheres w In a time of the changing of seasons, when the hours of sunlight are altered, when the northern hemisphere receives increasing length of days, and the southern hermisphere turns to a longer night, the women of Relief Society look forward to a new program for the coming months and summarize and review the developments of the time which has passed. Then again, time changes and summer is long and beautiful in the southern lands and winter comes to the north. Also, in those regions of lasting summer, where less evidence of varying weather is apparent, the work of Relief Society continues in its learning, serving, sharing. Its companionship and compassion continue. It is a significant thought for all of us to realize the many and farreaching homelands of the sisters—the towns and the cities and the rural areas where the sisters live and care for their homes and their families and devote themselves to the equally far-reaching program of Relief Society. The sisters do not regard the wide oceans, the skyward mountain ranges, and the great deserts as dividing the womanhood of the world. They think of the green valleys, the long rivers, the uplands and the lowlands of the many nations as the native lands, the homes of the world-wide sisterhood. There is no ocean, no mountain range, no expanse of desert or prairie—no barrier of land or sea that can divide the sisters of Relief Society, for they are the same in ideals and aspirations—the same in faith and devotion, the same in their desires to follow the teachings of the gospel, and to be a pattern and example of womanhood to the world. It was for all of us in every land that the Prophet Joseph Smith, in 1842, revealed the pattern and declared in long treasured words the purpose of an organization for the sisters—the first auxiliary in the Church. He addressed the women assembled before him and said that their desire for organization was ''accepted of the Lord | will organize the sisters under the priesthood,'' he said, ''after a pattern of the priesthood."" And later the Prophet declared that the Church was never perfectly organized ''until the women were thus organized."' In our time and in our place, we rejoice in the continued purpose Volume 57 May 1969° Number 5 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Evon W. Peterson, SecretaryTreasurer 344 and pattern. Inthenorthern hemisphere and inthe southern hemisphere, upon the continents and the islands of the sea, in unity, and in the beauty of companionship and service, the sisters are organized in prophetic design. That design is basically the same after many years—after more than 127 years—the glorious pattern and purpose remain the same. There is the same remembrance of duty, the same sincerity, the same deep compassion. The Society remembers its origin and destiny—still the same as at that time when Emma Smith, the first president, arose ''to make appropriate remarks on the subject of the Society—its duties to others also its relative duties to each other... That each member should be ambitious to do good."' It is the same as on that day when Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, illustrated the desires of the sisters: '' we must cherish one another, watch over one another, comfort one another."' So it is in all the lands and in all the nations where the sisterhood has been organized. The gospel light is a great radiance for spiritual living. The visiting teachers go forth, as in times past, with their enduring messages of faith and consolation. The sisters in their handicrafts and in their homemaking observe a heritage of usefulness and beauty in lasting color and design. In Relief Society they find the ways and the means of achieving cultural refinement in literature and art and music. They learn the ways of uplifting and helpful social relationships. The program and the spirit of Relief Society open the door to a full measure of the attributes of noble womanhood. The voices lifted in praise of the gospel are as beautiful in a village on the slopes of the Andes as they are in a far northern land where the icefields rise above the meeting place. The far-reaching echoes of rejoicing in song reach to all the sisterhood and join them in spiritual communion. In a saying of olden time it has been written: ''Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad... The multitude of isles be glad.'' (Psalms 96:11; 97:1.) The world-wide sisterhood continues its loving service and still is greatly blessed in time and place. _VPC GENERAL BOARD: Elna P. Haymond Celestia J. Taylor. Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Anne R. Gledhill Myrtle R. Olson Anna B. Hart Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Edith S. Effiott Elsa T. Peterson Zola J. McGhie Lucille P. Peterson Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Blanche B. Stoddard Jennie R. Scott Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aleine M. Young Alice L. Wilkinson Marjorie C. Pingree Reba C. Aldous Alberta H. Christensen Irene W. Buehner Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Mildred B. Eyring Irene C. Lloyd Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Edith P. Backman Hazel S. Love Ellen N. Barnes Mayola R. Miltenberger Winniefred S. Manwaring Fawn H. Sharp Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock 345 MAYTIME WORDS FOR MOTHERS A MOTHER'S PRAYER Blessed child, With hands in mine, Hands | must guide Throughout all time. Blessed child, On bended knee, My guidance must reach Through eternity. Blessed child, Each word | say, Shall be uttered again By your lips today. Blessed Father, Wilt thou hear me? That my words, my hands, My bended knee, Might guide this child Back to thee? —Oneita B. Sumsion TO A GRANDSON You are the son | never had, Blue-eyed and blonde of hair; You are the substance of a dream, So fair, so fair. You are the impertinent smile, The mischievous, child act; The love of outstretched arms, You are the living fact Of what we hoped, so long, could be; You are so gentle, wise. Small boy, you are my heart Stretched twice its size. —Christie Lund Coles 346 LITTLE MOTHER Long ago the nights were softly dark, And even as she said goodnight, A song was in her voice—a song That lingered till the morning light. With true appreciation, We listened when she sometimes played, A simple little melody— To us a classic that had strayed For Mother always played in harmony With all the joys we ever knew And when it seemed our hearts would break She was there with precepts proven true— Precepts taught to us in childhood days To guide us far along life's ways. —Evelyn Fjeldsted The sa le HHS, —— - mente 08, i=:. Fee se = " ~ SS Joyce B. Maughan What a sentimental journey! How good it is to see those old red hills again. I don't recall being repulsed by the ruggedness of this country when I first moved here as a child, and how I have yearned to return. Such variety! I believe every part of the world has a duplicate here. The whole world was in my backyard. The raw, unpolished, and jagged slopes speak of creative energy. Mile after mile my eycs caress the vari-colored striped hills, the geographic folds and slides, the eroded surfaces, and the craggy faces. The suggestive forms resemble familiar objects so much that they seem almost symbolic. Are they like a dream bringing out my past fears, my hopes for the future? They seem to speak to me, yet I am not sure what they say. They don't say words, but, yes, they do speak to me. The colors touch a sensitivity that causes a certain pleasurable sensation to be felt throughout my whole being. The structures speak of power, a power that lifts mountains, lays down plains—a power that is almost terrible. Yet it is this same power which is so tender that it makes the rough places plain within my own heart and brings peace to my inner world. The clay soil reminds me of my own nothingness until the Creator breathed the breath of life into my body. No wonder this landscape speaks to me! Now I understand. This country is I! It is the vision of myself. I will be what the Creator designs for me. I am clay, rough, unpolished. I am eroded, jagged, and seemingly unfit for cultivation. I am barren soil. With his breath, with his touch, with his power, I can be made productive.... Everything begins here—everything goes from here. The beautiful valleys are covered with oak, aspen, pines. From the peaceful garden we drop down. Falling, the erosion begins. Cedar Breaks—vermilion and white cliffs showing the passage of years. But these are productive years also: sheep grazing, lumber trucks, sheltered cabins. These are also the stormy years: thunderheads piling up, roaring, flashing, dropping their load. Stunted trees speak of severe winter blasts leaving their heavy burden. There are peacful times: Duck Creek, Navajo Lake, Wood's Ranch. But the barren lava beds remind me that the refiner's fire also comes to purge our lives, leaving its scars. Yet, look at the tender growth springing up on the perimeter, moving into the heart. The Creator will not leave the barren fruitless, if they yield to make a place for the seed of life. The everlasting hills speak of God to me. This is my cradle, my childhood, mature years, my life. My joys, my sorrows, my pleasure, and my pain echo from me and resound from these hills and proclaim, "Like the everlasting hills, life is eternal." 347 m@ It was a beautiful morning. A sky of purest azure held a gleaming white-gold sun _ that turned the vast beds of snow stretching beneath to sparkling crystal brilliance. Kari Kay Jackson leaned her elbows on the window sill and with her chin cradled in both hands surveyed the glory of the mid-winter Alaskan morning. Ordinarily, her heart would have swelled to bursting at~ the beauty of the spectacle before her, but even this rare morning could not alleviate the gloom that lay around her heart. It had been a year now since Tom had brought her as a bride to this vast frontier country. They had worked hard to make a home in the wilderness. They had done quite well, she 348 The Hardest Work — Sally Ann Roehl thought, even though they hadn't had much with which to work. Red-checked curtains sewed by her own hands, lined the windows of her large square kitchen. The white cushioned linoleum covering the bare plywood flooring had been installed perfectly by Tom. The furniture was rough hewn but carefully varnished. And the bedroom even had wall-to-wall carpeting. Tom had thought that something of an extravagance, but Kari had managed to talk him into it on the premise that the bare wood floor would be terribly cold during the long spells of sub-zero weather. Besides, it was the new kind that could be used outdoors on patios, and she cleaned it easily herself. Next year they planned to put in running water and add another bedroom. If there was a next year. The thought struck her miserably. She was seriously considering leaving. She and Tom had settled into such a routine. There just didn't seem to be much excitement anymore. And as the excitement faded, Kari was beginning to doubt that they truly shared a lasting love. Then, too, she missed the Church so much. And the isolation from the talk and companionship of other women was bearing heavily upon her. She loved Relief Society, and often felt a great need for the lessons and sustaining spirituality of other sisters. Never had Kari Jackson felt so deeply the need for other women about her. And while she and Tom had been married in the temple, the priesthood did not seem so close and protective out here where the land reached so far beyond the eye. Before she had left home, Bishop West had admonished her to carry the Church into the wilderness harbored safely in her heart. He had counseled her never to allow separation from a chapel and other members to separate her from the gospel itself. But it just: wasn't that easy. Unhappiness was settling down around her like a cold fog when she noticed the short, full figure approaching the cabin. She smiled at the sight of the little woman slogging through waist-high snow, and this morning the thermometer had registered forty degrees below zero! Running to the door, Kari pulled it open just as her visitor was lifting a mittened hand _ to knock. The Hardest Work "Good morning, Annie! You must be frozen! Come in, I have some hot chocolate on the stove." The little native lady, her face wreathed in smiles, kicked the snow from her boots and stepped into the warm kitchen. "Ahhhhh," she breathed, "that heat feels good. Very cold today. Nice though. Think maybe you go ice fishing with me." Kari took the heavy parka, trimmed so beautifully with the fur of the wolf and wolverene, and hung it on a peg by the door. She looked at the brown, full face, with the eager lights dancing in the dark eyes. "Oh, not today, Annie," she sighed. "How come? You been wanting to go so bad. You not sick?" The black almond eyes were full of concern as her work-worn hand smoothed her heavy black hair mussed by the parka hood. "Oh, no, nothing like that." Kari smiled, warmed by the woman's concern. "I just don't feel like doing much." Annie Andrews was a bright spot for Kari in this lonely country. She and her husband, Wassillie, lived not far away in their own cabin. They had seven children and somehow managed to house them all in one room. They still clung to the old native ways and had not been much influenced by the white man. 'hey were good people, and to be admired for their loyalty to each other and love of their family. Wassillie was typically native, quiet, and efficient at providing for his family from whatever the land had to offer, and content to live as his Indian ancestors had for hundreds of years. 349 * /, 7 4 ra a" 2 May 1969 Annie was different in every way. Talkative, bright, and interested in everything, she was the most truly cheerful person Kari had ever met. She talked incessantly, her conversation so fast and lively it was impossible not to be happily infected by it. Now, looking at Kani's cloudy expression, she settled herself at the kitchen table in an attitude of listening. "We talk now," she stated matter-of-factly. ON » ¥ m ON "4 ee a i }. 1 u i x; } 7 U A ( i é ' I 4 Kari gave a little sigh, poured them both a cup of hot chocolate, experiencing the little jump of pleasure she always felt when she used the earthenware cups from her wedding dishes, and sat down across the table from Annie who waited in attentive silence. "T don't know, Annie," Kari began uncertainly. "Everything has changed. Tom seems so distant and I miss the Church terribly, Sunday School, sacrament meeting, and, especially, 350 Relief Society. My spirituality seems to be almost gone. Everything is so—so..." she searched for the right word, "so difficult! Building the house and fixing it up was fun. Tom showing me how to hunt and fish, and how different everything is here. But now that's all over. It's just day after day of sameness. The morning melts into afternoon and the afternoon's covered by darkness. Nothing new or exciting or different. Nothing to look forward to when you get up in the morning." She stopped, expecting sympathy and support, but Annie sat silently looking at Kari as though trying to _ see _ inside her heart to what lay there. Finally, she spoke slowly and thoughtfully. "The Church you talk about. This is the one with what you call temples so people can marry forever. Where men have the right to do work in God's name, and children are made to belong to their mother and father forever also?" "Ves." "You told me about this not long ago, remember?" "T remember." Annie continued softly, "I have thought about these things very much. I think they are good things. You told me, too, that you made promises to God, and if you kept these promises God would give you many blessings." "Ves." "Did God promise these things to come easy?" she demanded quietly. Kari looked at her hands encircling the cup of hot chocolate. "No," she whispered, shame creeping into her young face as she remembered the sealing temple service. Annie continued, a gentle note of scolding in her voice. "Did God promise all excitement and only good things?" Kari could not answer. "T am not Mormon as you are called, but I am Christian. I do not believe that God wanted things to be easy for us. If it were easy to catch the king salmon, we would not enjoy eating it so much, and we would learn nothing. I think marriage is very hard. Marriage teaches us all things we need to know. The lessons are hard, but they bring most happiness too. Sometimes when I am tired from pulling the fish nets or scraping the skin of seals, I wish not to be married and have so much work to do. But I think life would mean nothing to me then. "Sometime Wassillie get very far away from me, and I do not know what to do. But I pray hard, and God helps me bring my husband back close and I think this is way God meant it should be for us. We should work very hard to do right. If we do not work hard, we learn nothing, make nothing good. Marriage is hardest work of The Hardest Work all." She stopped and began to sip the hot chocolate in her cup. Silence fell around them. Neither spoke for a long time. Finally, Kari found her voice. "Thank you, Annie. I had almost forgotten how things should be. I wanted the newness and excitement of my marriage to stay forever. It's beginning to wear off, and I didn't want to settle down really to being married. I nearly forgot that I must try with all my strength to keep my promises and deserve God's_ blessings." A repentant Kari vowed to herself not to think about giving in when things were not just asshe wanted them. And she, too, would pray to keep her husband close to her. She would never, never, allow her = spirituality to ebb so low that her covenants with her Heavenly Father might slip from her. She looked at the little native lady, a simple woman with the wisdom of a queen. She gave a prayer of thankfulness to God for giving her a friend like Annie. Jumping up from the table, she said, "Annie! Let's go ice fishing. It's a beautiful morning!" Ser SseaD NOTE ON THE POEM '"'MY THREE SONS" The poem, ''My Three Sons, Thomas, Harold, and Richard,'' which appeared in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine was paraphrased from the poem, "My Sons'' by Grace Noll Crowell, which has appeared in Harper and Row publications. 351 Margaret L. Phelps Southampton, England g@ Emily May fumbled in her purse for the correct fare; her hands, stiff with arthritis, refused to manipulate the coins, but at last, in triumph she _ produced the correct money to give to the patiently waiting bus conductor, and he smiled down at her benevolently. As the bus continued its journey, Emily May settled back in her seat and became lost in thought—was it only this morning that the letter came about the new flat? She had hurried down to the council offices to find out all about it, and couldn't believe that it had happened, they were going to pull down her old cottage and move her to a new housing estate. What about her garden? She could see the workmen's boots trampling: down her carefully planted bulbs and her precious 352 primroses, and the rose bushes would never bloom this summer, or any other now, all this was to go, and for her it would be a luxury flatlet. "Luxury!" She startled herself by saying the word out loud, and quickly looked around to see if anybody was giving her strange looks, but no, everyone was too preoccupied with his own deep thoughts. "Anyone for Redleigh Post Office?" the conductor's voice called along the bus. "Yes, me!" Emily May hadn't realized she was at her destination and had to jump up quickly, an embarrassed look on her face, as She felt people watch her move slowly along towards the platform to disembark. "T'm terribly sorry not to have got up sooner." "That's all right, lady, we've got all day," and the bus conductor took her arm and descended the platform with her to the pavement. She took from her bag the crumpled piece of paper with the directions that the man at the Council Offices had given her, and she made her way along the wide white pavements, feeling strange and alien. Eventually, she found the block of flats where her future home was situated and looked up at the massive construction in awe and apprehension, but then her sharp blue eyes narrowed, her face, with skin like wrinkled paper, became set and, bracing her shoulders, she marched across the flagged courtyard as best she could manage. Once inside, the automatic lift was the next obstacle, and she surmounted this by waiting for another person to arrive on the scene and explain the workings of that particular marvel of man's invention. A few seconds later and the door of her flat was before her. It was clean and bright with pale distempered walls, tiled floors, and large picture windows, not quite so bad as Emily May had imagined, but she felt out of place within the walls of this building. For awhile she stood contemplating the bareness of it all, her feelings surging inside of her, feelings of despondency and loneliness, then, holding on to the wooden surround of the fireplace, she eased herself to the floor and poured out her heart to the only one who could possibly understand. "Dear God, why couldn't things 'And When Ye Shall Receive These Things' have been left as they were, just for a little while longer. I would so much have liked to spend my last days in the home that John and I made together. We had so many happy times there, a sad time, too, when the news came that our two sons had been killed in the war. All my life has been wrapped up in that cottage, and now it is to be pulled down. Why? Oh, why?" Emily May knelt silently with her head bowed, the sun shining on her diminutive body. The time slipped by, and she still knelt there. Somehow she was at peace and felt near to her Heavenly Father. Her thoughts sped back over the years, and she could hear the words that her father had spoken so long ago, when she failed to win a ribbon for pony events in the local contest. "Now, Emily May, don't get so upset. Things don't always go the way you expect or want them. Sometimes we fail in things when we have tried our best, and sometimes it seems that we have troubles heaped upon us, but the Lord works in a strange way, and most of these things turn out for the best." Yes, thought Emily May, who am I to expect the world to revolve around me, and anyway, as Father used to say, the Lord sometimes works in a strange way, and I may yet see the reason for things happening as they have. With these thoughts, she began to rise from her knees. It was a very painful process after kneeling in one position for so long, but she was compensated by the peace that now filled her mind. 363 May 1969 It was one week later that Emily May moved her belongings to her new home, and it was while she was standing in the corridor, near the lift, supervising the men unloading the furniture, that she first saw the two young men. They had come from one of the flats further along the passageway, and a young lady, who must have been the occupant, was seeing them to the lift. It was she who spoke. "Oh, are you just moving in? I expect you could do with some help." "Well, yes," said Emily May, dubiously. "Perhaps we could help you get your furniture in place." It was the taller of the two young men who spoke, and Emily noticed that he had an American accent. "Well, I was worrying about how to get everything straight, and my arthritis does make things difficult. Yes, I would be very pleased with your help." She was quite surprised at herself, inviting complete strangers into her home, but they had such open faces, and she really did need the help. In no time at all things were beginning to look tidier, although still rather bare. The helpers were wonderful company and kept her laughing the whole time. As she was putting out the photographs of her late husband and sons, she went to call one of the young men from the other room and realized that she didn't know his name. "Do you realize, I don't know your names?" At this invitation they began telling her about themselves. 354 First, the taller of the two men spoke, and it seemed that his name was Elder Jameson and he came from Salt Lake City to England on a two-year mission for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The second man's name was Elder Thomas from California. His parents had gone there from Wales when he was a baby, and he was also a missionary. The lady from along the corridor was Sister Jean Tanner, and she was also a member of the same Church. The elders had just been visiting her when they all met. Emily May was a little stunned for awhile, when she realized that they were "Mormons." All those stories that she had heard about them came pouring into her mind, but somehow she couldn't feel any fear in the company of these young people, but she didn't particularly want to get involved with such a strange set of people, either. Elder Thomas spoke, "Would you like to know more about the Church, Mrs. Cross?" "Oh, no, no. I'm too old to change my ways now, but thank you for all your help, it really has been appreciated." They didn't press her any further, but just continued to clean and tidy up as if nothing had happened, and when finished they left with a cheerful goodbye. It wasn't until about an hour later that Emily May found the book with the pamphlets inside. She was about to take them down to Jean Turner, when she noticed the words written inside the cover. Dear Sister Cross: If you take time to read these things I'm sure you will find them interesting and if you pray about them, you will know of their truth. Elders Thomas & Jameson She banged the books down onto the sideboard as if they were red hot and refused to take any further notice of them. Sometimes, though, when dusting the pictures of her family, she would become tempted to take just a little look, but not anything more than that. Somehow they bothered her, so she decided to tuck them away in a cupboard, however, they still preyed on her mind. Sometimes, at night, before going to sleep she would think about the young men who had helped her and the books that they left that were hidden away in the linen cupboard, but she would declare to herself that they probably knew no more "'And When Ye Shall Receive These Things"' than any other religion and had no more to offer. Emily May had always been a devout church goer in her youth, and it was at church that she had met her husband. They had been married in the little village church not far from her old home, and it was in the same building that their two sons had been christened, John first, named after his father, of course, and David next, named after his grandfather. They were beautiful babies and grew into fine young men. At the outbreak of war, when both of them had volunteered, she often thought of what life would be if one of them was lost, but little envisaged losing both. Those were sad days for Emily May and John. They naturally turned to God and their church for comfort. In their prayers together they found peace in God, but there were many questions that needed answers, so it was to their local vicar that they went. He was a good man and did his best in giving them the little information he _ possessed about life after death, but he knew this was inadequate. His parting words had been, "I'm so sorry I can't be of more comfort to you. Sometimes I feel it would be wonderful to have someone on the earth who really knew all the answers, a prophet or something." After this Emily May and John went to church less frequently, until they stopped altogether, but they always kept up their prayers. Emily May awoke to a beautiful bright morning. Her first thoughts were happy and at 355 May 1969 peace, for she had been dreaming about John. He had been sitting at a large desk, bent over his work, and she had crept up behind him and kissed the back of his neck. He had turned, smiling, and she noticed what he was doing— reading a book, the same book that was tucked away in her cupboard. Just coincidence, she said to herself. It must have been a culmination of thoughts. Jean Turner had continued to call on Emily May to make sure that she was all right and to see if she needed anything, and today was one of her usual days for calling. "Hello, Mrs. Cross, is there anything I can help you with this morning?" "Thank you, my dear, for calling. There are one or two things that I need from the shop, come in a minute." As Emily May sorted out her money and wrote down the things that were needed, she took note of Jean's face. Somehow it seemed even more happy and radiant than usual. "You're looking very happy today, Jean my dar, something special happened? "Oh, I should say so," her voice bubbled with excitement. "My husband and I were married for time and all eternity yesterday and I'm still walking on air." Emily May stopped what she was doing and turned a puzzled face towards Jean, and she, realizing that what she was talking about was all new to Emily May, began to explain. It was much later that Jean eventually left for the shops. Emily May was sitting in her favorite chair, looking fondly on the faces of her husband and sons, and in her mind, going over the events of the last few weeks. Could it be that she now had the reason why, the answer to her prayers? Were Jean and those two young elders the reason she had come to this new home? A few minutes later, when Jean came back from the shops, she found Emily May with her gray head bent intently over a book, a book that began: "I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents." aa A TRIBUTE I'm just a visiting teacher, | heard a sister say, But, oh, how golden was the key that she had used today. It had opened doors of comfort and doors of hopefulness For lonely hearts and troubled minds and brought them happiness. A sweetly-worded message she had humbly left inside, And every home she visited seemed sweetly purified. No idle words of gossip, no ugly thought was left to scar— No wonder God was pleased as he watched her from afar. So she is ''just a visiting teacher,'' how little does she know How valuable, how welcome her monthly visits grow! As she turns the key of service that fits in every lock Of every precious sister whom she visits on her block. 356 —Bernice Cheshire Harding ae 2 ' The Rebirth Nancy Tuddenham Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia m@ What on earth had made her say she would come out to this forsaken place with her husband? Sue sat on the camp chair outside the caravan, and drooped. The blazing sun shone out of a brazen blue sky, bare of clouds. The flies came around in droves and stuck, crawling, into her hair and eyes. She swished at them viciously. Here she was stuck in the middle of the bush, in the middle of Australia—well, nearly, anyway. Dust, flies, ants, hornets, and goodness knows what. Ah, she could weep. One had to carry one's own water, with no electricity, and the gas-bottle empty. The meat was going bad. And weep Sue did, as she thought of all this, and how they came out here. 358 Two months ago her husband Jim had come home from work all excited. "T've got it, honey," he called as he came through the door, letting it slam behind him. "T've got the job on the Road —think what it will mean— more money to pay off our debts, a holiday for you in the fresh air away from the smog." And on he went about all the things they could do, all the benefits of this venture. So it happened, packing the caravan, packing the things at home. Rush! She was exhausted by the time they left. Fortunately, they had no children. They didn't want any, well, to be honest, she didn't. Jim would have liked children —but she didn't want her rou- tine upset by babies. She had to leave her job to go on this wild goose chase as it was. With a baby! Ah, my goodness, never! They were camped, along with some other married couples, in the rough Australian bush in the Northern Territory where the Beef Road was being built. It was late April, just after the wet season, and the countryside was at its best. The spinifex shone green and gold, even now the spines turning yellow with the hot sun. The ghost gums were clean and fresh looking, with their gray-white boles that shone in the sun and moonlight. The crows were numerous, along with the gray and rose galahs, and the white cockatoos. The bright red and green parrots made the bush ring with their raucous cries. She just sat there, really quite an attractive young woman, brown eyes and hair, fair complexion. Her age—just thirty. Wd ust then around the corner came a young woman. "Hello there! My name is June. I'm from the van over the way there," she said, pointing to a pretty little van with an awning and a tidy litter around it. "Isn't it beautiful today? Lovely sunshine, clear air, better than your city smog any time. Don't you love it out here?" She rattled on. "Wide open spaces, birds, trees, no rush, no traffic jams." Sue had looked up in surprise. At first she was speechless, but it wasn't noticed because June kept on talking. But then she found her tongue. "Ah, hello! I'm Sue. I didn't The Rebirth notice you come round the corner." "That's all right, as long as I didn't frighten you." Sue laughed. "I thought I'd come over while my children were playing elsewhere. We have two, one of each, not of school age yet. I would have my hands full with correspondence school if they were. Like to come over for a drink of something?" Sue said, "hank you." She couldn't say any more, but thought, may as_ well—there's nothing else to do. Together, they went over to June's van. She got Sue a camp chair, and told her to sit down while she prepared the drinks. Sue thought, yes a_ cool drink would be nice now. While June was busy she talked about their two children, Jan and Rob, and her husband Robert. Jan was five and a half, and Rob was four. Robert was out here as a grader driver. Jan had asthma in the city, but had not had a sign of it since they had come out here, so that was a blessing, wasn't it? June rambled on, having sensed that Sue wasn't very happy, until she brought out the drinks, lime cordial in glasses that clinked merrily with the ice-blocks she had put in, also a plate of biscuits spread daintily with cream cheese and tomato. "Now," she said, "let's settle down for a good chat. I hope you don't mind, but I noticed you looked a bit down in the dumps. Can I help?" "Not really," murmured Sue, then, "it's just everything has got me down—the bush, lack 359 May 1969 of facilities, a bush made shower cubicle, worry of flat batteries for our lights, empty gas bottle. I'm sorry," she went on, "Tt don't want to burden you. I'm just sorry I ever came here, that's all!" June was saved an answer by the two. Children returning dirty but happy. They threw themselves on their mother, and both started talking at once. "T climbed a tree ' " saw a butterfly seed a lizard " * found a cattapilla June said, "Sh! We have a visitor." They turned around with big smiles and both said, "Hello." "It's great fun here," said young Rob. "I can climb trees, can you?" Sue had to admit that feat was a bit beyond her abilities. Turning to their mother, they both said, "We brought some wood home, Mummy." "Thank you, my dears," she said, "now off with you and wash your hands and you may have a drink, too." When Sue first saw the cordial she thought, fancy drinking that! But on tasting it, she found, to her surprise, that it was very refreshing, and enjoyed it so much that when June asked if she would like another, she replied that she would. Sue went back to her own caravan feeling much _ happier. Later in the evening, when she and her husband were sitting reading, there was a_ knock at the door. Robert was there. "June told me you people were out of gas," he said. "You 5 39 6é 6 33 360 can use our spare bottle until your refill arrives. No good being without a refrigerator out here." Jim thanked him and invited him in. "You find out who are friends in places like this," he commented. "Would you like a cup of tea?" "No thanks," Robert explained, "We don't drink tea, and I must get back and help get the nips into bed. Another time perhaps." He left the bottle of gas outside the door, and went off whistling. "Nice chap," commented Jim. "June seems nice, too—quite happy-go-lucky," Sue added. INI ext day, June came over to ask Sue to go for a walk with her and the children. She didn't fancy going, the spinifex cut her legs, the flies were such a nuisance, and there could be snakes. However, June was hard to refuse, so she went. As they passed a gum tree, June broke off four twigs and gave one each to the children and one to Sue. Swish these around to chase the flies with," she advised. To Sue's surprise, it did chase the flies. As they walked, they saw the tiny wild flowers that grew among the grass, as well as many other kinds of flowers. Sue gathered some, along with some of the pretty grasses, to put in the van. She hadn't realized there was any beauty in the bush like this, she had never taken the trouble to look. The children kept pointing out to her all the different things to look at. A flock of galahs flashed past, screeching in protest at being disturbed, grasshoppers, two and three inches long, jumped out of the clumps of grass with a whirring of wings. Willy-wagtails, in their black and white suits, flaunted their tails on the track before them. June told the children' the native legend about them. Sue listened. "Never tell a secret in the hearing of a wagtail." "Why not?" the asked. "Because of this," replied their mother, "they tell all the secrets they hear." children "There's a magpie," called { Jan, as a big black and white bird flew off at their approach. "T love to hear them caroling at dawn, don't you, Sue?" June asked. Sue confessed she _ hadn't taken much notice. "But," she added, "I will tomorrow morning." Sue saw and heard all these things for the first time, and, much to her amazement, enjoyed them all. She was very thoughtful on the way back. Over the next weeks June showed Sue many little things that made camping in the bush much easier for her. One day, before Jim left for work, Sue went over to June's van to borrow something. As she neared the van she heard subdued voices. She was just about to knock, when she heard Robert's voice, '"... In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen." Then a murmur. Then another voice, a child's, and recognized Jan saying, "Dear Father in heaven, The Rebirth thank you for our blessings. Thank you for Mummy and Daddy and Rob, and Auntie Sue, and help her to be happy out in this lovely country you have made, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen." h ™: v Sue crept away to her own van. What is this she thought, prayers in the morning and young Jan, so young? They didn't seem to be religious. Well, they didn't ram it down your throat, but there was something—as when Robert lent them the gas bottle, he said they didn't drink tea. June had given her cordial and milk drinks, never tea nor coffee. They didn't seem to drink and neither of them smoked. There was something about them, a closeness that she and Jim had never seemed to acquire. They had two children and _ were pleased that number three was on the way. She was thoughtful all day. Maybe if they had children they would be closer, too. Maybe 361 May 1969 she would be at peace with her own mind. But there was more than that. That night she spoke to Jim about what she had heard that morning and her thoughts during the day, and asked what he thought. He agreed they had "something." "You go and have a talk with June tomorrow," was his suggestion. So she did speak to June, and June exclaimed, "Ha! The chance to ask the two Golden Questions!"" Which she promptly did. Sue was thoughtful all day. "Yes, I would like to know more, and I'm sure Jim would, too." "Robert is an elder" June told Sue, "and he can tell you both about the Church, but," she added, "you will have to wait until you get back to civilization to be taught again and be baptized." From then on life opened up for Sue and Jim. Sue was introduced to The Relief Society Magazine, and learned to love every word of it, and learned so much from it. Jim was interested, as well, so much so that when the tea ran out, they did not order any more. After quite a tussle they gave up smoking, and Jim gave up his beer, a very hard thing to do in one of the hottest parts of Australia. But the crowning event was when Sue was able to tell Jim that a happy event could be expected next year. "My darling," whispered Jim, "this is what we have been waiting for." oa Over the hill And over the sea Is where my heart Aften langs tae be. | see the heather Upon the green hill And the wild deer runnin' Tae escape the kill. | see the wee yins Doon by the stream While my mither works happily At churnin' the cream. | see the women Doon by the mill Spinnin' fine lace Tae thrill many a girl. 362 | see the gospel Proclaimed at my door, My heart swells with joy At the message they bore. | see my native land Left far behind As | traveled far west A new Zion tae find. Now, although I'm quite happy In this land and am free, My heart aften wanders Far beyond the blue sea. Tae hame, and my hameland And all o' my kin Their hearts tae the gospel | surely must win. And when that day comes And united we be Perhaps | won't reminice Sae much o'er the sea. —Jean Paul Clark Harvest of Fulfillment Betty G. Spencer It was harvest time and, as I returned from an errand into the country, I noticed that many sugar beets were lying by the roadside. The beets were perfect! Full of sucrose and as plump and heavy as their counterparts which had made the journey from the nearby fields to the beetdump without mishap, the beets at the side of the road had been left at the wayside. The beets had been planted in the spring, carefully tended, weeded, and thinned as the growing season wore on. They were harvested with hope as the fields were cleared, but these beets would be wasted. Without arriving at their ultimate destination, the sugar factory, they would not be processed and yield their sweetness. The wasted beets brought to mind the unfulfilled projects which I had also left "by the wayside." Good ideas, which did not see fruition because they were not carried to their ultimate destination. I thought of the lovely drapery material I had selected, but had put off sewing into drapes for the family room; the letter I had started to a friend who needed encouragement; the new recipe I had carefully clipped but had not prepared for my family. It was not enough that the farmer had planted, tended, and harvested his crop, he must also see that it was processed in order to reap full benefit from the sowing. So it is with us, It is not enough to have good ideas, if we do not carry them through to the harvest of fulfillment. PERCEPTION | walked today with my children three In the quiet land where | wished to be. | left the dishes at home in the sink, For | needed space to breathe and think. Three fragile voices sang delight In a miniature waterfall, silvery-bright, Exclaimed at leaves, falling one by one, And praised the warmth of the autumn sun. | walked today with my children three And saw things my eyes alone could not see. —Grace Diane Jessen 363 \ ll > telah ( Mer, \ Emily T. Wilkerson rf f J é, ™ _ ~ Pat oe Pa —™ a. ' f. A - a* Mothers are many things: They are the sweethearts of fathers. They are comforting arms for tiny babies. They are nurses for all the family. They are counselors for growing children. They are words of encouragement when there is an obstacle to overcome. They are aids to all the teachers that children have. Mothers are people who never need anything for themselves if their children are in need. A mother is a person who knows the ache in her heart but sends her children into the world with a smile on her face and words of confidence from her heart. A mother knows the great good that is deep in the hearts of her children. A mother prays for her loved ones. A mother's joy is in the righteousness of her children. A mother's courage is in her faith in God. A mother feels the responsibility of her children, for she realizes they are the children of God, and she is aware of the need for their good training. A mother is grateful for the planned lessons given in the different auxiliaries of the Church, for she knows they are inspired helps for her in training the precious spirits entrusted to her by the Lord. A mother is that person who becomes that wonderful grandmother. We are truly grateful to the Lord for his great generosity when he gave us mothers. Dtograph by Dorothy J. Roberts els: Sharon Morgan Berrett, Mother, and Melissa Morgan, child. 365 UWI Uraperies Edythe K. Watson, Member General Board of Relief Society Photography by Dorothy J. Roberts These beautiful curtains displayed by Mary Frances Watson, were purchased in Dusseldorf, Germany, and are typical of the many lovely varieties seen throughout that country. They give the windows a warm yet luxurious effect. M@ It all started with fourteen and a half yards of pretty pink and white chintz drapery fabric purchased from a sale table for only fifty cents a yard. The material was an excellent quality and was reduced to one-fourth its original cost. Happily it provided the basis for a family project which put excitement in the air for days and gave lasting satisfaction and enjoyment to every family member for a job well done. The results were a lovely and attractive bedroom for our five-year-old granddaughter Jill. The drapery fabric inspired my daughter and me to make our first pleated draperies. I had made many sets of curtains and draperies for my kitchen, bathrooms, and bedrooms over the years, but they had always been either the shirred ruffly kind or simple tailored ones with a conventional heading. To 366 make pleated drapes was something quite different. Their making proved to be fun and quite easy to do. Since then I have made draw draperies for my kitchen windows and curtained and draped my bedroom windows. My curtains were especially interesting to work with since I had purchased them in Germany and German decorating methods are quite different from the American ways. It is a beautiful and interesting sight to ride through the towns and cities of Europe and observe the varieties of window treatment. Every country has its own distinctive and charming style which seems to identify with the personalities and the people of that country. I was intrigued with the beautiful curtained windows of the German homes. They always seemed to look fresh and inviting. Often the curtains | added a simple quilted valance over these windows, made from the fabric of a matching bedspread. They were very easy and inexpensive to install, yet add a finish to the room. Were hung high enough to allow space above the sill to hold a flower box. Such a lovely sight! I felt fortunate to bring some of these curtains home for my own use. Windows, as it appears to me, are an important part of a home. Usually they set the scheme of interior decoration and the everyday passerby may even judge the occupants of a home by what he sees from the outside. Draperies or window hangings were used originally to insulate a room against the weather, the cold in winter and the heat in summer, and were usually just lengths of heavy dark fabrics, with no thought in mind to beautify or enhance a room. Today draperies and curtains have come into their own. Myriads of exciting colors and designs are available. The making of draperies, curtains, or sheers can This original design for a den was made by Sister Jean Tolich at a nominal cost, yet it is very attractive. A black and white mattress ticking was the fabric used, with a black fringe for trim. The walls were also covered with this same material. Bright colored accessories for accent were added to the room. Be fun and _ rewarding both aesthetically and financially. Have you ever tried to make your own draperies or curtains? From my limited experience I have learned that you need not be a professional seamstress. All that is really required of you is that you can sew a straight seam, put in a simple hem, and be willing to learn a few tricks of the trade. To assure success in 367 follow these drapery making, basic rules. Learn All You Can About Drapery Making and Fabrics Before You Begin Look through the home decorator magazines. You may find a clever drapery or curtain idea to make your room_ something special. Visit the library for books on drapery making. Most every city and country would have their own sources of information. Many furniture and department stores have made-up 368 PRIOR. PREIS INE "Say 2 we, <a. Boos gees A lovely soft gold was. The color chosen for this bedroom. The valance is of velvet and the draperies a sheer held back by gold cording and tassel. The blind was made from the same fabric used in the bedspread. Models, and with the purchase of materials from them, they are happy to provide you with excellent written information compiled by leading authorities on the subject. Sister Lorainne Bagnell, an experienced and capable drapery designer and seamstress, gave an excellent demonstration with detailed instructions including some special tricks of the trade, in the homemaking department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference in 1967. This was published in the homemak- ' "- ' » _—. - ee ee i ee A ba. - ~ i ae:. %. A.. ' - ae oe 2 oe ee Fe --4 F see ye «3 4m «( These delightful and practical draperies were made by Sister Margaret Arnold for her young son's room. A valance and border were made from border print of blue and red marching soldiers. This trim was most effective on the white fabric of the drapery. Knitting yarn tassels were used for accent. Sister Jean Tolich created this attractive window trimming in her son's bedroom from red felt, with black yarn tassels as trimming. A minimum of sewing was required yet the overall effect of this room is very interesting. Ing booklet. I was able to follow her detailed instructions from the booklet as I made my draperies. Choose Your Fabrics With Care There are many beautiful miracle fabrics on the market today. Choose the one best suited to your needs. If you have a family of young children you may wish to choose asturdy material, easy to launder and care for. If your household consists of adults, you may wish to choose a more elegant, less sturdy fabric. Don't buy inferior material. It takes the same amount of work to make up poor quality material and the results can be disappointing. Buy the best material you can afford, but remember the price tag does not always denote the quality. If you are timid about making draperies for the first time, don't buy material which is too expensive. Very attractive draperies can be made from colored sheets. They lend themselves well to many varieties of trim, they are color fast (at least as much so as any material subjected for long periods to the sun's rays), they launder beautifully, and they come in lovely colors, stripes, and prints, and are usually less costly than many other fabrics. Watch sales in_ reputable stores. Many excellent fabrics are reduced to clear stocks at certain times of the year. Know your fabrics, and don't buy some- 369 Sr ntanaee 1 seaman a ace nna ne an Hanon NO Mg t tg This window was too small for the effect Sister Margaret Arnold wanted, so she extended the rods on both sides several inches,. Made the draperies ceiling high and added extra fullness. The results were most satisfactory. ¥ gr — ot ae = ET —. » ~~ > wReHR = & & ~~ ~~" This charming and practical kitchen window treatment is made from a lovely fabric in colors of orange, yellow, and brown. Sister Margaret Arnold used a drapery from the same material to decorate a large window in the adjoining family room. Exact measurements were very important in making and installing this blind and canopy. Thing you don't want just because you think it is a bargain. Look for fabrics that have a permanent finish, are water and soil repellent, are preshrunk, color-fast (vat-dyed), have a firm weave, and are soft and drapable. Although soft fabrics are more traditionally used, don't be afraid to try something different. Even felt can be used in an interesting manner to drape a window in a tailored fashion. Though felt is fairly stiff, lt is very attractive for a teenager's room. Allow sufficient material to make a full drape. Use less expensive fabric if your funds are limited, rather than make a skimpy drapery. You will need double the rod measurement for 370 draperies and three to four times the width of the rod for sheers. Study and Understand the Anatomy of the Windows You Wish to Cover Don't feel limited if your windows are small. You can change the whole effect. By a clever manipulation of rod and fabric. Understand How to Measure a Window Correctly The same rules can be followed for measuring. All varieties of windows. Measure each window individually, even though they are in the same room and appear to be exact in size. Sometimes window sizes may vary several inches in the same room and in corresponding positions. I found this to be true in my own kitchen. Have a paper and _ pencil handy. Measure accurately and write down every measurement. Don't depend on your memory— it may fail you. Make Certain You Have the Right Equipment a. Have sufficient space on which to lay, measure, and cut your material. A young friend of mine who made most of the draperies in her lovely new home, was greatly helped by a cutting table made by her husband. It was simple to make and inexpensive, well worth the effort because of the money saved by making their draperies. Your dining room table extended may do nicely. Pads designed especially for cutting material are now available in many stores. These can be used on a bed or the floor. I used my long counter in my kitchen and it worked very well. B. Make sure you have a good light. Don't work in a poorly lighted room. It could be the cause of a foolish mistake. C. Have your ironing board and iron in readiness. The same procedure should be used in drapery making as in sewing articles of clothing—press your seams as you sew. D. Have plenty of sharp pins. They can be used to designate spaces ar to hold your material in place. E. Use good needles and a thimble. F. Have sharp scissors. Long scissors are recommended for cutting. You may wish to use small scissors for clipping and detail work. G. Use a metal measuring tape. A fabric tape tends to stretch. A yard stick and ruler are useful, too. H. Notch a piece of cardboard the depth you are making your hems. This is much easier to handle than a ruler. I. Have your sewing machine in readiness. Make certain that all parts are wiped free of excess grease. Know where to set the tension for each weight of fabric. Make sure the machine needles are the proper size for your fabric. You may wish to check with the manuMake Your Own Draperies facturer's representative as to correct information on these subjects. Keep your hands clean at all times. See that no residue from hand cream or lotion remains on your fingers. Some fabrics absorb such residue quickly. A grease spot can spoil a lovely fabric. You may wish to sew parts of your draperies by hand. This gives a lovely effect, particularly to sheers. Don't be afraid to baste. This may save you countless stitches. Sister Bagnell gives the following helpful hints in measuring, cutting, and sewing draperies, with illustrations to assist you: How to Figure Yardage Width—measure rod area including returns (the part of the rod and bracket that extends from the bend in the rod to the wall) plus six inches for overlap where the panels meet, then double this measurement for proper fullness. If the total pleated width is sixty inches, you will need at least 120 inches of fabric. Length—measure one half inch above the rod to the length you want the drape finished, and add twelve inches if using three-inch crinoline, or sixteen inches if using four-inch crinoline. This allows for double hems at the bottom and double heading at the top. Crinoline is used in the top to give body to the material so that it will stand up and not droop when the draperies are drawn. It comes in three, four, and five-inch widths, but fourinch is usually the choice for draperies. If you are using a patterned fabric the following information will be helpful. Figure the length as above, and measure the length of the pattern repeat. Divide the length needed for the drape by the size of the pattern repeat. If the result is a fraction, order an additional repeat. 3m May 1969 Length needed, including hems and headings - - ~ - 76 inches Pattern repeat ____-_---10 inches Divide _____------ 76 by 10 - 7.6 Repeats needed Multiply the number of repeats needed by the size of the repeat for the length of the fabric needed—10x8 equals 80 inches, or 2 yards and 8 inches. A pair of single width draperies would require four yards and 16 inches. To Make Unlined Draperies When cutting drapery strips be sure to stretch out the fabric smoothly and measure straight and accurately. It is essential to cut on the true cross grain. This can be determined by pulling a thread or following an obvious cross thread. Using a yardstick or measuring tape on the selvage, measure and cut one strip to the exact total length, including hem and heading. Cut lower edge on true crossgrain also. This length can be used to measure the others, laying fabric out flat on top with edges pinned. If you have a patterned fabric, match patterns exactly on each length. If you have to join several widths, you may use a French seam or a lapped seam for a_ professional finish. Remove the selvage or else clip the selvage at intervals and press the first turn of the bottom hem—three or four inches. When making draperies, the general rule is to make the depth of the bottom hem the same as the depth of the heading. When making sheer curtains, you may want to have the bottom hem and heading as deep as five inches. Press a double hem at each side (1 or 1, inches), press the second 372 turn at the bottom hem, and sew around the drape with machine or by hand. If a large table is available, pin drape at bottom edge to a table, press, then measure from the hem to the correct length needed. Press material and fold double over crinoline. Pin or baste. To Make Pleats There are several ways to figure the pleating on draperies. A simple way is to figure fourinch spaces between each pleat. To determine the amount of fabric in each pleat and the number of spaces, measure the width of the rod across the front (not including rod return) and divide this by two to determine how much each panel will have to cover. For example, if the rod measures 36 inches, divided by two it would be 18 inches. Divide this by 4" which would make 4 4-inch spaces. There would be 5 pleats needed as there will always be one more pleat than spaces (see illustration). Pin the drape from the center front edge the width needed for the overlap, pin from the side edge the width needed for the return. If the space between these two pins measures 40 inches, we subtract the width of half the rod which is 18 inches, which leaves 22 inches for pleats. Divide 5 into 22 inches which equals 4% inches. This is the amount to be used in each pleat. Pin. I found that the easiest way to pleat your draperies is to divide the panel in half and work from the center. After pinning you should have 5 pleats 4', inches and 4 spaces. Sometimes it is necessary to make minor adjustments. To make a lovely, full drapery, it is always well to have the width of each pleat greater than the space between pleats. Draperies should be pinned according to the rod used. There should be one-half inch of drape above the rod. If you are timid about making hand-set pleats, there are some excellent pleater tapes available Make Your Own Draperies in drapery departments, and they are very easy to use and can help give the drapes a_ professional look. There are so many clever and fun ideas for fabrics and trims —use your imagination and ingenuity. Give your windows that special charm that will be yours alone. Add beauty and warmth to your home. WHEN MOTHERS SING When mothers sing the home is sweet, And peace and joy abound; Troubles seem to fade away Before this happy sound. Children smile, and baby coos, And Dad forgets his care; Faith and hope and harmony Dwell securely there. Singing Mothers everywhere, Patient, tender, strong, Send to heaven this daily prayer— Lord, make my life a song. —Olga Milius Sea, - ° eS = MY TAPESTRY The tapestry of life | stitch Is never quite as perfect as it might be; | plan it carefully, Choosing the theme and materials, And yet, when the time of working And blending has arrived, | sometimes find myself inadequate. The task which once seemed easy May on occasions of sorrow or stress Be almost too difficult to finish; And yet, when | view it at its completion, | hope that the over-all picture Is a pleasing blend, With the mistakes of the first stitches, Corrected and almost unnoticeable In the perfection of the others. —Ruth G. Rothe 38 LOST Forever— One Expression of Love E. Grace Stanford High Level, Alberta, Canada m My nine-year-old son was all big-eyed and enthusiastic! With the importance reserved by nine-year-olds, I was being informed of the forthcoming school track meet and his schedule for Little League ball. My mind, for a few fleeting seconds, withdrew from his sports résumé, and spanned a great desire to open my arms and say, "Come here, son, and give me a big hug!" I resisted for a fleeting second and this great surge of love subsided to normalcy. Now I have a small tugging void where happiness should be. Now I know that I let slip by, forever, one opportunity for my son and me to strengthen and declare our love in an impromptu happy embrace. Children need this affirmation of love from parents. Then will they know for a surety that their parents do love them! This knowledge would be their anchor and buoy during youth's turbulent storms—their comfort and strength when young heartbreaks bring fear and anguish into their lives. This knowledge would enlarge a child's own capacity for love. How often, in times of trouble and sorrow, parents long to reach out and closely commune with their older or even married children! How often the children will not let the parents draw near! Could it not be that in the early years these parents failed to fulfill an impulse visibly to express their love? That these children who are, in reality, cherished, do not realize how deep is the concern of their father and mother? Parents and friends also need this spontaneous declaration of our affection. These spiritual promptings to display our love toward parents, children, and our fellow men are of a Godlike quality and may take many forms. There are many urges to run over to a new neighbor with a batch of cookies fresh out of the oven, the nudging desire to tell a friend how lovely she looks today, the feeling that you want to go and help Jim put a few boards on that garage he is trying to build alone, the moment when you want to say to a teacher, "I enjoyed and was impressed by your lesson today," the word of congratulation you meant to send to an acquaintance—the impulse to tell your husband how proud you are of his achievements, whether great or small. 374 Lost Forever—One Expression of Love If we suppress these divine emotions too often they cease to come to us. Our lives become drab and days go by without meaning. Suddenly, one day, we wonder what we have accomplished that was worthwhile in our lives. On our last picnic, the little children came running to me with their hands clutched full of wilting crocuses, and their faces beaming. Their token of love deposited, they rushed off to climb hills again. These wonderful experiences need last only moments. I have a dear friend who, occasionally, hands me a brown paper bag. Inside I have found everything from a loaf of home-baked bread to a pair of exquisite meticulously hand crocheted doilies. Today in the mail, I received a small parcel from one of my sisters, sent first class mail. Inside was a pair of dainty, cool summer slippers covered with enchanting beaded flowers. There was no special occasion, no special reason. It was one of those glorious extempore expressions of love, and, because it was not suppressed, her life and mine have been enriched! "ETERNAL KINGDOM" Love, where is love? Hope, where is hope? Who am |? Am | the world in vain? Am | a child crying? Love me, love me. Give me hope to go on On and on forever To live a life— To be proud. Give me love To show the way To my eternal kingdom— Oh, people of God, help me Help me to see your happiness. Help me to hear your pleading cries. Help me, oh, world, help me To do what is right for you. Help the world in which you live That | may try to prepare "'you'' for me. —Lorna Nelson 375 Patricia R. Watkins m@ Anna Pavlova, the Russian ballerina, was one of the greatest dancers of all time. Born in St. Petersburg, she made her debut in 1899, becoming prima ballerina in 1906. She began to tour Europe in 1907 and also appeared with Diaghilev's Ballets Russe in Paris in 1909, in London in 1911, and in New York, with Mikhail Mordkin, in 1910. In 1913 she resigned from the Maryinsky Theater and established her permanent home, Ivy House, in Hampstead, England. In 1914 she began extensive tours to virtually every part of the world, which lasted the rest of her life. Pavlova's dancing was marked by greatness and had an incalculable effect on audiences, everywhere. She seemed to command a universal language and to possess a complete dramatic range, changing easily from the fragile, floating swan in her famous "Dying Swan" role to the dangerous flame in "Autumn Bacchanale." Anna Pavlova was born in 1881 and died in 1931. The following recipe is, when completed, representative in appearance of the ballet skirts Pavlova wore during her career as a famous dancer. 376 PAVLOVA 4 egg whites | a pinch of salt 1 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Cornstarch V, tsp. Vinegar or lemon juice Suggested fillings: Strawberries and whipped cream; fruit salad; lemon filling. Add salt to the egg white. Beat until a knife cut through the mixture comes out clean. Gradually add sugar, beating continually until mixture is very stiff and the sugar is well beaten in. Fold in cornstarch and vinegar. Pour into an 8-inch round cake pan which has been greased lightly and sprinkled with a little cornstarch. Make a slight depression in the center bringing the mixture a little higher at the sides. Bake for 1% hours at a temperature of 250° F. Cover with a piece of grease-proof paper if the meringue shell shows sings of browning on the top. Turn onto a wire rack and then immediately onto a serving plate. When meringue shell is cool, fill with choice of fillings suggested above. LEMON FILLING 3/7 c. Sugar ¥, tbsp. Grated lemon rind 1¥/, tsp. Cornstarch 3 tbsp. Lemon juice pinch of salt ¥/, tbsp. Butter ¥, c. Water Mix together sugar, cornstarch, salt, water, and: lemon juice. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until boiling. Add grated lemon rind, cook 1 minute, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and add butter. Serve Pavlova as a special dessert for buffet luncheons, bridal and baby showers, or as a treat for the family. Jessian Rhoton: SUMMER SALAD tI 1 medium-sized head lettuce, finely cut or shredded 13 oz. Crushed pineapple (undrained) | 1 c. Grated cheese (cheddar or long horn or your favorite variety) Y2 c. Shredded coconut nuts (optional) Combine all ingredients and serve without dressing. Any of the ingredients may be increased or decreased in amount to suit individual preferences. Serves eight. 377 Barbara G. Toomer @ What better way to start a friendship than to send a loaf of freshly baked bread to a new neighbor? A hot loaf of bread placed near the casserole destined for the house where the mother is ill would surely cheer the family. What husband wouldn't be thrilled to come home to the tantalizing odor of baking bread? In Minneapolis, there is a real estate broker who has bread baked in the oven of his homes the mornings of his "Open House" days. For all occasions, bread, hot, fresh, homemade bread is the answer. 378 "I'm too busy to bake bread," you say, "I have six children, two dogs, three cats, and a canary to separate. I can't afford the time to bake bread." Lady, you are the very one to whom baking bread should be more important than cleaning the living room. You see, baking bread is good for the baker as well as the eater. Do you have one half hour in the morning hours? Come, let us bake bread in this time. Get out your big fat cookbook and find a basic white bread recipe. Soak the yeast in water as directed (use either dry or moist yeast, both work beautifully). Remember that too hot water kills the little yeast people and you want them to grow, so give them baby-bottle temperature water. Collect the rest of the ingredients and place all except the flour in a big bowl. Easy, so far, isn't it? Make sure this mixture is warm, not hot, and feel free to use powdered milk in place of whole milk. Add your bubbly yeast mixture. Now put in about two to three cups of the flour and stir well. It looks like library paste, doesn't it? Never fear, just keep adding the flour until you can't stir in any more, then dump the whole conglomeration onto a clean breadboard or kitchen counter. Sprinkle about one-half cup flour over the dough and start pushing with the heel of your hand, then pull back the dough towards you with your fingertips. The dough is sticky, but keep adding flour and kneading it in, and the dough will smooth out. Do this for ten minutes. This push-pull motion is rhythmical and_ soothing. Think pleasant thoughts, and at the end of your ten minutes, you will feel relaxed and ready to face the world again. After the dough has_ been kneaded ten minutes, it will be Staff of Life smooth and have a satiny sheen. It also will be elastic and tend to return to its shape if you push it away. Place it in a large bowl or pan, cover it with a damp cloth, set it aside in a warm place (try a tray table set next to a wall heater) and let it alone. It will rise until "double in bulk." Usually, this takes about two hours. Plunge your fist into the dough and watch it deflate! Sort of mound up the dough, turn it over, and let it rise again. This time it will take a shorter amount of time, around one to one and one-half hours. If the recipe makes three loaves, cut the dough into three parts and roll each with your hands to fit into a greased bread pan. If you don't have bread bans, use small hunks of dough about the size of a plum, and place them side by side in a 9x15 greased pan. You could make hamburger buns by rolling out tangerine size balls to a flat pancake. Place these discs on a baking sheet and let them rise. Bake any of the above according to the recipe you are using. You can also save some of the dough, let it rise again, then tear of plum-size pieces and deep fat fry them. When light brown, remove, drain, and dip in sugar. My family calls them "spindles" and can eat a whole recipe at one sitting. This is a good Family Home Evening treat. Bread baking is fun, homey, simple, therapeutic, and you can do it yourself easily. SF 378 Chapter 7 Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, a young girl of twenty-four, has taken over the management of her family home following the death of her mother. She has three young brothers, and she finds it a great challenge to be responsible for them. Steve Rey, a long-time friend of the family, and Jim Long, whom she met on a trip to Houston, Texas, now a student in Utah, are competing for her attentions. M It was February, and winter seemed to have settled in the valley permanently. It had been dark and cold for more weeks than Jennifer cared to count. For her it was a time of unexplainable depression. She could not put her finger on any one thing being wrong, but for the first time in the entire six months that she had been responsible for the family, life seemed to be at a standstill. She had resumed her studies, and had been awarded a student teaching position in Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Springville. If she could attend the summer session, she would be graduated in August. The boys were behaving well and seemed well adjusted. There had been minor skirmishes and disagreements over trivial matters, but no serious disciplinary matters had arisen. Charles Miles seemed much more settled, and although his job required him to travel a great deal, he had taken an active part in home activities since the incident with Dave. Jennifer was saddened to note the lost, lonely look in his eyes, and his smile came not as readily as it once had, but he was making adjustments. Twice monthly he took a trip to Manti to do temple work, and seemed in much better spirits when he returned from such trips, yet nothing could ease his terrible 381 May 1969 aching loneliness, Jennifer knew. Jennifer could feel a cold coming on as she went through the motions of preparing final lesson plans for Tuesday morning. She felt generally miserable. The ringing telephone interrupted her efforts. "Miss Miles," a cold, impersonal voice said, "I'm calling for Mr. Hansen, principal at the junior high school." "Yes," Jennifer responded, her heart quickening. Could something be wrong with Sam? "We are given to understand that you have assumed most of the responsibility for your three brothers since your mother passed away. Is this correct?" she asked. "Yes, that is correct. Is something wrong?" Jennifer asked breathlessly. "Mr. Hansen would like to talk with you in person. Could you come into the office at one o'clock today?" Jennifer was apprehensive. Sam obviously was in some kind of trouble. "Of course, I'll be there," she responded. As she finished the remainder of the lesson plans she began to worry. If Sam was in serious trouble what should her course of action be. Her father was going directly to a sales convention from this trip, and was not due home for ten days. It would not be possible to withhold discipline until he returned, of this she was certain. Mr. Hansen was quite a contrast from his impersonal secretary. He seemed _ genuinely friendly and warm; however, Jennifer had the feeling that he could be very firm, in fact quite 382 formidable if the occasion should call for that. He came directly to the point. "Miss Miles, has Sam been ill a great deal lately?" Jennifer was puzzled. 'No, except for the cold he had a month ago, he's been fine." "Then you haven't been keeping him home?" "No, Sir, I haven't." "Well, that's about the way I had it figured," he said, not unkindly. "You see, we have a group of five boys who have been missing school quite regularly at the same time. They are all wellbehaved and good students, and in observing, we have no' -d that they are good friends. It has been on the average of a half day or a day each week. We suspect that they could be found up at the old mill sleigh riding, apparently avoiding the Saturday and after-school crowds that congregate there. Jennifer, as a future school teacher, I think you know how serious this is." ald cnniter could hardly believe her ears. Sam skipping school! It was indeed serious. Truancy was not tolerated. "What would you suggest be done?" she asked falteringly. "Well, we are first talking to the parents and guardians of the boys. I don't think we'll let them know that their parents have been alerted. Tomorrow we'll call them in, but for you the element of surprise will be best. Of course they must be disciplined here at school, and although they aren't trouble-making lads as a rule, parental action is clearly indicated, mostly to avoid repeats and more serious violations of the rules." Jennifer knew this to be true. She thanked Mr. Hansen and left, her head spinning. She knew that she would have to act immediately, for the other parents would do the same. It was impossible to wait for their father's return. She wasn't certain as to how to approach the boy, or what his punishment should be. This was one task she didn't welcome. When dinner was finished, she told Dave and Pete that the walks needed to be _ shoveled, then called Sam into their father's den. "Sam, how is school coming?" she asked, trying to keep her voice light. He studied her for a moment, wondering what this was leading to. "All right," he answered guardedly. "Are you keeping up with your work all right?" "Oh, yes," he replied enthusiastically. Jennifer took a deep breath and went on. "You haven't missed very many days this year, have you? I want to keep the records straight on you boys." "No," he answered furtively. "Only the times when I had poison ivy last fall, and when I had that cold." "Are you sure that's all, Sam?" she asked hoping that he would confess before she had to accuse him, and not really knowing what she would do if he did. "Yeah," he muttered, his face turning a little crimson. "Sam, have you ever missed any school without my knowing?" He was becoming increasingly more nervous. "What do you Welcome the Task mean, how could I?" his voice rose in pitch. UJ ennifer restrained the impulse to get angry. In a carefully controlled voice, she said, "By going up to the old mill with Bob and the other boys instead of to school." "Sam squirmed uncomfortably. "I guess I did," he said in a low voice. "IT know you did," Jennifer told him. "Sam, you have not only broken the school rules, you have broken an important rule of our home, and of Heavenly Father. You deceived me_ by sneaking off, and you fibbed about it. Are you proud of yourself?" He hung his head. "No, I'm not," he mumbled. Jennifer could see the tears beginning to form in his eyes, yet knew she must carry out what she had started. Resisting the urge to take him in her arms and hug him, she said, "You realize that you must be punished, don't you?" "Yes." "What do you consider an adequate punishment?" He looked at her dumbly. "T'm waiting for a suggestion," she said after quite a period of silence. "fT can't think of anything," he finally said, his voice barely above a whisper. "I won't do it again, though, ever," he insisted brightly. "I hope not," she said, "but we still have to punish you. Very well, I shall choose one." She was silent for a few moments, and he sat tensely awaiting her decision. "You will not be able 383 May 1969 to leave the yard after school or on week-ends for a period of one month, except to attend Church meetings." "Do I have to miss the ski trip to Alta?" he cried. "Yes, Sam, I'm afraid so. And don't pester me to relent and change my mind, or Ill add more time to the punishment," she threatened. "Also, you will have to tell Dad what you have done, when he returns." Sam took his punishment well, but was subdued when he left the room.. Jennifer rubbed her neck. She was feeling the effects of the cold worse than ever. She hoped that she hadn't been too rough on the boy, and that he had learned his lesson. She went into the kitchen to do the dinner dishes. Dave was talking on the telephone, apparently to a girl, judging by the way he was guarding his conversation, and Pete was pouring over an algebra book, with the radio going full blast. As she walked by she turned the volume down on the radio. "What did you do that for?" he snapped. "You can't study with that thing going," she told him reasonably. "IT can, too. You don't know what you're talking about," he said boldly. _ Her first impulse was a violent one, but with an effort she controlled it. "Peter, go to your room. Take the book and leave the radio." "Yes, your majesty," he said angrily, rising quickly. Jennifer stared after him as he ascended the stairs, stomping loudly. What had she done to prompt that outburst? She wondered. Glancing out of the window, she noticed that the walks had not been shoveled. As soon as Dave hung up she challenged him. "I thought I asked you boys to shovel the walks." "Why should we? It's just - going to snow again. It won't do any good. I'll do it when I'm ready." There was a hint of a challenge in his voice, and she knew her authority was being resented, and his look was more proof. Jennifer sighed wearily. She had noticed this tone more and more often lately. Probably this was where Pete was getting his boldness. "All right, David, go and get the other boys, and we'll meet in the den." Something in her tone told him that he had best obey. "Sit down boys," she instructed as they filed in, each avoiding her eyes. "There seems to be something wrong here, and I think we had better get it straightened out before it gets any worse. I know I make mistakes, and perhaps you have occasional reasons to resent my authority. I realize that you are all growing up. I'm sorry if I've made mistakes, but were all only human, we cannot be perfect. I know this has been hard for you to accept, having me try to take Mother's place, but you're stuck with that. If you have any real complaints, I think this would be a good time to air them." Avi three boys stared at the floor. Finally Jennifer said, "Dave, I think a word of prayer is in order." As David prayed, Jennifer could feel the bleakness beginning to lift. She admired the way he expressed himself to Heavenly Father on behalf of all of them. When he finished, she was certain that there would be no more trouble for awhile. Pete was the first to speak. "Jenny, I'm sorry I behaved so badly. I know that you are boss, and that you know best. I really can't concentrate as I should with the radio going full blast. Please forgive me," he said humbly. Sam spoke up, "Jenny, I won't ever tell you any more lies, and I won't ask you to let me go places when you've said I can't." "And you won't skip school anymore?" "No, sir!" phatically. He grinned emWelcome the Task Dave came over and put an awkward arm about her shoulder. "T haven't been very much help to you, and I should be. That's going to change now, I promise to do better," and Jennifer knew he had grown up a little more. Jennifer's cold settled in, but the misery did not last long, and family life seemed to be going more smoothly than ever. Soon it would be spring, and time for new starts again. Dave would be graduating. Jennifer thought how their mother would like to have seen that day, and there were so many others she would like to have shared. Then would come Dave's mission, and soon Pete would be following in his footsteps, and only Sam would be left at home. She wondered idly how long she would be needed there. Perhaps those stories about old maid school teachers would apply to her one day. Jim was in Salt Lake attending law school full time, and was busier than usual. The long drive from Salt Lake ate into his schedule. Steve, too, was deeply involved in his studies, and Jennifer admitted that studies were a good excuse for being busy, for her own were often hard to complete. One rare evening when she was home alone, reading a book, Steve's familiar tap on the door brought her back from the world of school teaching. He seated himself on the couch. He had been so busy with his studies that he had not been over for several days, and then only briefly. They made small talk for awhile, then he asked, "How about me taking my best girl dancing a week from Satur- 385 May 1969 day? It is the spring formal, you know." She could hardly believe it. Steve taking her dancing! She loved to dance, but he could take it or leave it, and when it came to formal affairs, he preferred the latter. "T hope your hesitation isn't a refusal," he said gently. "Oh, no! [''m just astonished. I'd love to go," she answered sincerely. "Good," he said as though he really meant it. They discussed his. Master's thesis, which he obviously loved doing, for he was a writer at heart, and Jennifer knew that he had not abandoned his dream of writing and publishing a novel. Often he had said that there was so much in the Latter-day Saint heritage that could and should still be told. Jennifer had heard this many times, and believed it, and believed that Steve could do it, for his mind was set in that direction. Just after he left, the telephone rang. Supposing it to be one of the girls who had been calling Dave, she was not too friendly when she answered the phone. "Jenny? Jim. How have you been?" "Well, just fine. How are you? How was the debate trip?" "Just great, we took four first places." Jennifer assumed that this was quite an accomplishment and reacted accordingly. "Hey," he finally said, "my fraternity ball is coming up a week from Saturday, and I also have a very important question to ask, and I'll want an answer. Is it a date?" (To be concluded) Finally, After long millenia, trimmed now With forest, the samite peaks emerge, \ Vistas above the plain, their vast calm Memoried with violence. 386 MOUNT RAINIER After long distances, decorated with green needle And amber cone, hung with veils of hemlock And set with hue of many petals, The mountain peaks emerge, summer-burdened with snow. What once-red violence, long stilled, Burst from the lifted peak— A savagery now cooled by converging streams And the breath of a million leaves. PO —Dorothy J. Roberts FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Central States Mission, Ames (lowa) Branch Relief Society Completes Home Nursing Program, October 10, 1968 Front row, left to right: Evelyn Hall; Janice Burbank; Mary Ann Adams; June Booth, nursing instructor. Second row, left to right: Pat Van Woerkam; Sharon Hendrickson; Sandy Orehig; Reva Brooks; Helen Page. Third row, left to right: Luana Merrill; Elaine Brown; Evelyn Bulkey, President, Ames Branch Relief Society; Bobbie Lewis; Sandy Clark; Averil Seely. Lola R. West, Supervisor, Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: ''A special 'capping' ceremony was held for the sixteen members of the Ames Branch Relief Society who completed the Red Cross Home Nursing course. It was taught by June Booth, a member of the branch who is a trained nurse. "The course was taught during the summer months at the regular homemaking meetings. It was designed to help the homemakers be more effective and prepared for various emergencies that might confront them. The sisters were most enthusiastic about learning these things, and appreciated the opportunity." 387 LL Se SSS a a May 1969 Fullerton Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present "Our Heritage in Music,'' November 15, 1968 Front row, Left to right: Jolene Swenson featured organist for solo work; Bonnie Rosell, narrator, and cultural refinement class leader, Fullerton Stake Relief Society; Marjorie Newman, (fifth from left), soprano soloist; Lois B. Anderson, President; Betty G. Low, chorister; Karen Lynn, viola soloist; Bernice Lehman, organist; Pricilla Taylor, accompanist for Sister Lynn. Sister Anderson reports: ''Only the music of Latter-day Saint composers was used for our Singing Mothers concert, 'Our Heritage in Music.' The decorations featured old wagon wheels cowered with sage and sego lilies, and our singers wore sego lily corsages. "The program included a brief resume of the life of each composer, and one of the sisters had drawn charcoal sketches of them which hung in the cultural hall. "Our guests were served a buffet luncheon following the concert, with background music featuring some of the songs presented on the program. It was a very lovely and spiritual experience, richly enjoyed by all." American Falls Stake (Idaho) Board Presents 'Family Christmas Fair,"" December 7, 1968 Shirley Kendell, President, American Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our 'Family Christmas Fair' was beautifully presented and very successful. It was primarily a stake board fund-raising project and was attended by a large percentage of the members of the stake, and many nonmembers. "Among the many displays was the clever bag display (pictured) which was delightful to young and old. We also had a home sewed clothing booth, Christmas tree decoration ideas, homemade foods, including hand-dipped chocolates, and a hamburger and hot dog stand where homemade root beer was served from a wishing well. "We felt that it was a most worthwhile activity, and was enjoyed by all who attended or worked."' Hamburg Stake (Germany) Relief Society Activities Are Numerous Marianne Eggers, President, Hamburg Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Activities among the German sisters in the Hamburg Stake Relief Society are numerous. A regional meeting, with representatives from the General Board of Relief Society, thrilled the sisters and offered some excellent instructions and suggestions. The priesthood brethren were included in these meetings and were able to reap the benefits of a greater understanding of and appreciation for the Relief Society program. 'On December 7, 1968, a bazaar was held featuring handwork for Christmas. All of the branches in the stake participated, and found this to be most worthwhile. Following the bazaar, the Singing Mothers presented a Christmas concert featuring the works of some of the world's greatest composers. Several sisters presented music on the piano, violin and flute. The singing was under the direction of Anneliese Imbeck. The room had been decorated for Christmas, and this and the lovely music made a most worthwhile and enjoyable holiday event." 388 May 1969 Phoenix North Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present A Christmas Program, December 1968 Sisters in dark dresses, left to right: Veoma F. Stallings, pianist; Ida M. Steele, President, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society; Doris W. Rowse, chorister; Sharon W. Shields, organist. Sister Steele reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented an outstanding program of Christmas music to help instill the spirit of Christmas into the families in the stake. With the cooperation of the priesthood, no other activities were scheduled for that evening, and the members were encouraged to attend as a family unit. Several hundred enjoyed the music and a narration written by Sister Rowse, the stake chorister. "Our Singing Mothers have presented many fine programs, and we are very proud of them and of the accomplishments of their leaders." British South Mission, Thames Valley District, Presents ''Winter Wonderland'' Bazaar November 9, 1968 Left to right: Gillian Brown-Lee, Homemaking Counselor, Thames Valley District. Relief Society; Madeleine Brighty, President; Maralyn Lasater, President, Oxford Branch Relief Society; Connie Rigby, Secretary-Treasurer. Joan Child, Supervisor, British South Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The annual bazaar for the Thames Valley District of the mission was themed, 'Winter Wonderland.' All eleven branches in the district participated. The Oxford Branch won the prize for the loveliest booth. "The quality of workmanship in all fields, ranging from delicately knitted baby clothes to a tempting variety of cakes, sweets, and jams, was outstanding. We are very proud of all eleven of the branches."' Lehi Stake (Utah) Holds Short Story and Poetry Contest September 19, 1968 Left to right: Eva Carson; Maxine Black; Leola Porter; Connie Nielsen, Alice Cook, first place, poetry; Sylmer Thayne, first place, short story; Margaret McMillan. Leah M. Sabey, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A short story and poetry contest was held, under direction of the stake Relief Society presidency. The judges ruled that the entries were so outstanding that all entries other than the first place winners were accorded second place. '"'We were delighted with the writing quality of the sisters who entered, and the discovery of hidden talents among the sisters. We hope that more contests can be held in the future to further stimulate the use of these talents, and lead to greater participation." 390 SL May 1969 Brigham Young University Eighth Stake Relief Society Presents ''| Remember Mama'"' November 16, 1968 Left to right: Judith Cookson, Education Counselor, BYU Eighth Stake Relief Society; Laurel Stott, homemaking leader; Jackie Westover, guest demonstrator; Roberta Magarrell, Homemaking Counselor; Ann Madsen, President. Sister Madsen reports: '"'Our pre-holiday homemaking meeting fondly recalled family traditions for celebrating Christmas. Outstanding mothers in the Provo community, dressed in old-fashioned clothing, demonstrated the arts of dipping chocolates, stuffing turkeys, wrapping packages, and entertaining, keeping in mind the student budget. "For future reference, a detailed booklet had been prepared and presented to the girls. A luncheon of turkey and all the trimmings was served following the demonstrations. We feel that the 'mamas' of these lovely young girls would be very proud to see the students and student wives upholding the high standards of Relief Society."' North Sanpete Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents Christmas Home Tour Bazaar, December 11, 1968 Ward presidents of the North Sanpete Stake Relief Societies, left to right: Roxie Washburn, Mt. Pleasant Fourth Ward; Donna Brunger, Fairview North Ward; Norma Elaine Anderson, Fairview South Ward; Louise B. Johansen, North Sanpete Stake Relief Society President; Dorothy Clark, Spring City Ward; Ethel Porter, Mt. Pleasant Third Ward; Leota Anderson, Mt. Pleasant Second Ward; Vera Shelley, Mt. Pleasant First Ward. Sister Johansen reports: ''The stake board in cooperation with the ward presidents sponsored our second Christmas Home Tour Bazaar. There were various types of Christmas celebrations presented in the home of a member of each ward in the stake. Included in the types of celebrations were an old-fashioned Christmas, a children's party, a formal Christmas celebration, a Christmas wedding, and many others. "Over 250 guests signed the register and expressed joy and appreciation for the privilege of visiting the lovely homes, buying beautiful handmade gifts, and catching the true spirit of Christmas in so many various ways."' Juarez Stake (Mexico) Dublan Ward Visiting Teachers Honored at Dinner Party, November 1968 Front row, left to right: Jennie R. Bowman; Hannah S. Call, President, Dublan Ward Relief Society; Agnes S. Bluth. Back row, left to right: Ruth M. Longhurst; Mary S. Bowman; Amanda S. Gonzales; Jewel E. Bluth; Willa T. Wagner; Jane H. Taylor; Winifred A. Jones; Shirley W. Memmott; LaRee L. Bluth; Nita H. Taylor, visiting teacher message leader; Christine J. Jones. 'Rhoda C. Taylor, former President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A dinner _ party honoring the faithful visiting teachers of the Dublan Ward was held recently. This ward has had a record of 100 per cent visiting teaching for the past twelve years. They are a wonderful group of sisters who are always willing to go the extra mile." Reta Johnson is the newly appointed President of Juarez Stake Relief Society. 392 nt? & _ iit foe Heuer ore idaho State University Stake Relief Society Presents ''Our Fair Lady" October 27, 1968 Stake board officers, Idaho State University Stake, standing, left to right: Joyce H. Craig, homemaking leader; Irmgard G. Dixon, spiritual living class leader; DeeAnn C. Merrill, Secretary-Treasurer; Carolyn C. Palmer, Education Counselor; Carol D. Chase, President; Beverly N. Andersen, Homemaking Counselor; Diane W. Perry, social relations class leader; Lorna Kay P. Robinson, organist; Sherry M. Van Orden, cultural refinement class leader; LaRae H. Longmore, visiting teacher message leader; Jeanette T. Cooper; May Beth B. Packin, Magazine representative. Front row, seated left to right: Jane Maughan and Gloria Johnson, visiting teachers; Sylvia Ann Woolley, as ''Miss!''m So Unaware;"' and Linda Bernt, narrator. Sister Chase reports: ''In our stake we held a musical skit to acquaint the new students with the Relief Society program, and the members with the coming year's activities. Featured in the skit was 'Miss I'm So Unaware,' who was educated in the ways and programs of Relief Society by the officers, in song and pantomime. "This was a very successful program and helped to get our Relief Society off to a wonderful beginning." 394 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 11—House Plants Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1969 Southern Hemisphere: January 1970 Objective: To show how the home can be made more beautiful and livable and our lives INTRODUCTION As the world draws closer together through various means of travel and communication, we learn more about our neighbors both in our own country and in other lands. Anyone who leaves his own country to travel in another returns with a sense of awe at the beauty which is attached to the spot of earth which each man calls "Home." Much of this beauty is centered in the gardens and flowers which surround and decorate the homes. Everywhere is seen a profusion of flowers— blooming in gardens, on terraces and balconies, in hanging baskets, in window boxes and in more enjoyable by the use of house plants. The windows themselves. People literally live with plants and flowers, inside the home as well as outside. If we are not "living" with this natural beauty, we are depriving ourselves of ofie of the great joys and values of life itself. Most of us do recognize this, for the practice of growing plants in and around our homes is not new. Our mothers and grandmothers before us took great pride in the geraniums blooming in their windows or the scented hyacinth blossoming in the bowl upon the table. To nurture a plant and watch it bloom into beauty is satisfying to the soul and warming to the heart. There 395 May 1969 is nothing else that we can bring into our homes that will contribute, at one and the same time, beauty, color, perfume, texture and form, cool comfort, and direct contact with nature. HOW SHOULD WE USE HOUSE PLANTS? Potted plants and _ flowers should be thought of and used in our homes as a part of the whole color scheme; in fact, the colors in every room can be enhanced by the use of plants. For instance, a gay note can be added by a touch of color repeated in the flowers and foliage. Red geraniums make a bright, gay contrast on the window sill between white curtains or drapes, and a potted primrose adds just the right effect on a table where the sun touches it and makes it reflect against the soft-tinted walls. Any room is a happier and more attractive place when healthy, growing greens and colorful flowers are included in the color scheme. WHERE SHALL WE PUT HOUSE PLANTS? No home can be entirely satisfactory for a woman who loves flowers if there are no places where plants and flowers can become a natural and welcome addition. Plants are at their best when treated as any other type of enrichment, selected and placed where they will be pleasing and satisfying to the eye. 1. In window boxes. A _ garden atmosphere can be created against the barest of walls by the use of window boxes filled with flowering plants, potted plants, evergreens, or even small trees. Window boxes have several functions. In one they are miniature gardens used 396 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service fotal plectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _...55 Zone5 _.__-_~-5 Zone3 ~~ 60 Zone6 ~___-.85 Zone4 _-=.-_-.65 Zone7 _._-_-95 Zone8__.- -1.05 c= —— DESERET PPeEews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 The Best in the West CIANSON ees Travel Service (] WW4OW Joe "THE ORIGINAL HISTORIC TOUR" To the Hill Cumorah Pageant July 24 - Aug. 10 TOURS ALSO TO HAWAII > ORIENT + EUROPE MEXICO « SOUTH PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICA + CARIBBEAN For further information and for all your travel needs write or phone— Vida Fox Clawson Travel Service Rae 216 So. 13th East fst: Salt Lake City, Utah, 84102 me 328-3234 or 328-0303 "THE TRIP WITHOUT A WORRY" Lesson Department for a wide variety of plants—daffodils, geraniums, nasturtiums, petunias, marigolds, tulips, etc. Another is to give pleasure to invalids or to old people confined to the house. Still another is to present an appearance to delight the passerby. There must be adequate drainage and the boxes must be firmly attached to the house so that they cannot fall and possibly cause injury. The plants chosen for the boxes must have a sufficiently long period of bloom to justify the efforts, and they must be able to survive under the artificial conditions which are imposed upon them. 2. On_ balconies and_ terraces. Vivid pottery jars containing plants, luxuriant vines on_ trellises, potted flowering plants and miniature shrubs and trees beautify any setting. Also wrought-iron plant stands and wall brackets are graceful additions to the patio or terrace. Hanging baskets holding ferns or flowers or trailgreens are colorful and attractive against plain walls. 3. On the porch. The enclosed porch, or sun parlor, is an ideal place for house plants and flowers, and it can be made as attractive as any room in the house. Indeed, it can be made to serve as one by the addition of a few pieces of furniture and the use of plants, flowers, and accessories tastefully chosen and arranged. 4. In windows. (The indoor garden window is a modernized version of the conservatory which could be afforded only by the very wealthy and which went out with the "Gay Nineties.'') a. The bay window with its three exposures lends itself well to the use of glass shelves for growing plants. The shelves should be arranged across the windows to give interesting patterns of color and space. Room should be allowed for trailing plants to hang gracefully. The kinds of plants will depend upon individual preference— some want blooming plants; others want just the green. It is well to combine small plants with larger ones for artistic effect. B. On ordinary windows, with curtains tied back or with side drapes, glass shelves or squares can be installed on small brackets or braces to hold a garden of violets, bulb and tuberous plants, ivy and easily grown 397 May 1969 begonias and geraniums. On windows with sills, potted plants find a place to grow in the sun. For hot, sunny windows, cactus and other sun-loving plants are the best choices. 5. In rooms for decorative effects. A. Largeplants. Big, bold plants are good for major effects or to occupy spaces where furniture will not fit. Plants a foot or two high may be needed on a large table or cabinet. On the floor or low stand, tall plants— as high as six feet-—make an impressive image. B. Small plants. On an end table or bench or on a narrow window ledge, small plants bring a pleasant feeling of their appropriateness. Where several plants are grouped together, however, some variation in sizes and kinds can add interest to the general effect. SHALL WE USE ARTIFICIAL PLANTS AND FLOWERS? Some of the artificial flowers and plants which are being made today are so lifelike that even close inspection does not reveal the fact that they are not real. They are being used in the most tastefully decorated homes. However, they should be as carefully chosen and arranged as if they were fresh garden flowers. Artificial plants can be combined with dried plant species for attractive arrangements. Dry arrangements, though not artificial, require little care and cost little or nothing to obtain. A wide choice is available—everlasting or straw flowers, seedpods, bare branches, driftwood, and even rocks and shells in combination. HOW SHALL WE CARE FOR OUR HOUSE PLANTS? Each type of plant has its own requirements of light and heat, 398 soil, water and humidity for best growth. In caring for our house plants it would be wise to keep the following points in mind. 1. We should treat house plants, which include potted plants, cut flowers, garden window plants, artificial and dry arrangements as we would any other accessory to our homes—appropriately and harmoniously. 2. We should choose containers which are suitable to the occupied space and large enough to hold sufficient water, and which have balance and stability so as to prevent upsetting. 3. We should give plants adequate light and heat under conditions of proper humidity. 4. We should keep plants free of dust by sponging with lukewarm water or by spraying with water from the tap or hose. 5. We should protect plants as much as possible from impurities in the air—cooking gas and fumes from other sources. (Plants are injured by gas before it is present in quantities sufficient for us to detect it.) Cross ventilation, without exposing the plants to chilly air, is helpful. 6. Caution: There are several house plants which have been found to be poisonous. We should familiarize ourselves with all plants which fall under this category and avoid their use, especially where there are children. CONCLUSION House plants are one of the least expensive and yet most effective means of embellishing and beautifying our homes, both inside and out. They bring to our homes the living shapes and moving shadows of green plant life, the scent and color of flowers and give us a feeling of intimate communion with nature in its loveliest forms, thereby serving to make our homes more beautiful and livable and our lives more enjoyable. PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * California Holiday July 5th-1 6th * Hill Cumorah Pageant Chenega Pi ( Beciliy 16 days and 23 days FES SRP. Tess leaving July 26th e MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers"' "Choir Directors"' Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and We specialize in Mail Order Service Northwest Sheet Music Pianos _ Instruments August 18th-31st And Supplies a * Come in and acquaint yourself Hawaiian Aloha Week with our music department October 12th-25th Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. James Travel Tours 'Squeiasiaien: Call or Write for itineraries 2230 Scenic Drive 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 466-8723 Phone: 364-6518 Travel Agency MEXICO Only $359 from Provo, Utah Early June 1969 —February 1970 Enjoy Summer Sun in Fabulous Acapulco * Quaint Taxco * Majestic Mexico City * Beautiful Guadalajara Pueblo * Mazatlan and other cities Including 12 archeological Zones—Ample entertainment CANADIAN AND NORTHWEST TOUR Leaving August 15 Including: Banff Lake Louise Vancouver Victoria ALSO PAGEANT AND CHURCH HISTORY TOUR ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 ge ny a a 399 ; ) CZ ~~ Ff, or, - - ° Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 107 Mrs. Juanita Cisneros Rivera Rendon 92 Mrs. Margaret Ann English Browning Grantsville, Utah 103 Mrs. Lois Elzetta Barton Whittaker Circleville, Utah 99 Mrs. Ida Reynolds McEldowney Norwalk, California 98 Mrs. Serena Jacobsen Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Alphin Orton Payson, Utah 97 Mrs. Henrietta Watkins Barben Delta, Utah Mrs. Mary Jane Cherry Whiteman Hooper, Utah 96 Mrs. Mary Alice Walker Eyre Salt Lake City, Utah 95 Mrs. Emma Metcalf Brown Springville, Utah _ Mrs. Harriet Hands Dixon San Luis Obispo, California Mrs. Clara Collard Nielson Fountain Green, Utah Mrs. Juana Etchandi De Rothfuss Artigas, Uruguay, South America 94 Mrs. Cynthia Ann Keele Larsen Arcadia, Utah Mrs. Bertha Rose Osborn Sharp Klamath Falls, Oregon Mrs. Elizabeth Hay Taylor Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Fannie May Taylor Woodard Salt Lake City, Utah 93 Mrs. Hannah Aldous Bihler Orland, California Mrs. Amorett Allen Fifield Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Myra Alica Wedeman Humphrey Cherry Valley, California 400 91 90 -Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Isabel Maude Tanner Somsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann May Arbon Snowville, Utah Mrs. Lyle Young Gates Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louise Kreutzer Guerich San Diego, California Mrs. Mary Andrus Hoagland Nampa, Idaho Mrs. Ella Georgiana Francisco Keele Provo, Utah Mrs. Marie Christiansen Murray Hot Springs, Arkansas Mrs. Ellen Dorthia Thunnison Norris — Loomis, California Mrs. Beatrice Maude Gaside Sellers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Belle Watson Anderson Kamas, Utah Mrs. Clara A. Argyle Woods Cross, Utah Mrs. Jane Pixton Bowers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ella Botts Brooks - Ottumwa, lowa Mrs. Anna Augusta Victoria Nielson Edwards Provo, Utah Mrs. Emma Flake Freeman Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Josephine Dorcas Meservy McKinlay Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. LaVina Robison Wadsworth Redden Morgan, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Jones Simpson Sait Lake City, Utah by John J Stewart The 'Iron Trail'? — now merely physical evidence of a monumental effort — but the pages of history reveal a drama of iron willed men who fought for and against it. This is the story of human misery worse than slave traffic, of financial corruption against the U. S. Government as well as the Mormons, of courage and men of foresight. ''No state nor people figure more prominantly in the story of the Pacific Railroad than do Utah and Utahns, particularly the Mormons." The Mormon Trail, the road to the Rockies, became the general route of the railroad. As early as 1849, Utah's delegate to Congress introduced a bill ''for construction of a railroad from the Atlantic to the Pacific."' This is the story of the continental link that was built, almost in spite of men and raging animosities. Once started, you'll want to finish this amazing story in one sitting. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me copies of THE IRON TRAIL TO THE GOLDEN SPIKE Meme Cost$ | enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account (1) Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. May R. S. Mag. 69 Put Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah the magic of Sugarplum Land Suggests this simply delicious dessert for family raves FLUFFY COCOA CAKE 1 cup U and | Y2 cup hot water dry ingredients to creamed mixture. SUGAR 1% cup shortening 1 teaspoon soda 1 egg 2 cup cocoa 1% cups flour Stir in buttermilk. Add another % dry 4 teaspoon salt ingredients, then water-cocoa mixture, 3% cup buttermilk ending with remainder of dry ingredients. Avoid overbeating. Bake in greased and Cream sugar with shortening and floured 9-inch-square pan at 350° F for egg; dissolve cocoa in hot water; set 40 minutes. Serve with whipped cream aside to cool; sift flour, soda and flavored with a dash of cinnamon and salt together. Combine 4 of sifted sweetened with U and | powdered sugar. UL Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and | Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. 5 



