FEBRUARY 1969 LISTEN TO SILENCE Listen to silence: Let its silver spill Into the tired spirit, And the uncertain will. Find the deep, cool well Of darkness where it sleeps, Renew yourself from the pound Of noise the city keeps. Listen to silence: Let it mother you so You will Know who you are, And where you are to go. Listen to silence: lt can heal your pain; It can lift you upward, And make you whole again. —Christie Lund Coles The Cover: 5 Jupiter Columns at Baalbek, Lebanon Transparency by Alice Colton Smith Lithographed { Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: ) Brook in Winter Photograph by Lee Van Art Layout: '— Dick Scopes Illustrations: '* Mary Scopes It is a great joy to see how our many young sisters welcome the Magazine as a
"helper" in their lives, since becoming members or just married. As one young mother
said, "It gives us everything to be better wives, mothers, and Church members." One
of the most thrilling moments of my life came when my sweet young eighteen-year-old
daughter, who is a freshman at Ricks College, said to me over the phone, "Oh; Mom,
I just love Relief Society, and the lessons are the greatest. ..." I am so thankful
that our Church colleges have Relief Society for the young sisters so that they will
have this foundation to build upon when they get married.
He/en Shav^, President, South Carolina West Stake, Charlotte, North Carolina
I will never make "Five-hour Rolls" again after finding the wonderful recipe for onehour
rolls and other breads in the August issue sent in by Mildred Lewis, Mesa,
Arizona. In the September issue I thoroughly enjoyed the article "A Little Walk Along
the Upper Provo River," by Claire Noall. I know I have walked these same paths and
beheld some of the scenes portrayed in her beautiful color transparencies. The October
issue, coming to me on a blue day, was so very welcome. I especially liked the poem,
"To Everything There Is a Season," by Alice Brady Myers.
June B. Jensen, Orem, Utah
It made me happy to see my former missionary companion's picture in the November
Magazine, page 855. Vidella Rushton Vance and I met in Omaha in 1923 and became
devoted friends, and through the years we have written letters to each other and
visited when we could. She and her husband Reed have always lived in Salt Lake City,
until their call to Australia nearly two years ago, and I have lived in Blackfoot, Idaho,
since my marriage. ... I love the Magazine and the work in Relief Society and other
organizations. Rita D. Williams, Blackfoot, Idaho
Having recently finished reading the story by Mabel Harmer, "If Spring Be Late," I
should like to say that I enjoyed it tremendously. My husband and I spent two years
(1960-62) in Great Britain, and it was so much fun reading this story, and I enjoyed
reliving so many things that she wrote about— the beautiful countryside, the rain and
fog, riding the tube in London (which we did), the different expressions of the people,
which I still love to hear, from people who are here now in our country. We learned
courtesy over there, as we have never known it. The people were so kind, even though
they were not members of our Church. Sister Harmer's story brought back many
happy memories of our mission there. Our love is still with the members in Plymouth,
England, and Newport and Swansea, Wales, where my husband was branch president,
and where we spent so many happy months. May God continue to bless the saints
throughout Great Britain, that the branches may continue to grow and prosper.
Marjorie H. Bronson, Murray, Utah
May I tell you how much I enjoyed the story "If Spring Be Late," by Mabel Harmer.
Since I love the castles and cottages of Britain so much, it really is a joy to read a
story with an English-American setting. Olga Milius, Granger, Utah
The Relief Society Magazine is sent to me each month by Mrs. Ro Day, a member of
the Mormon Church on Dover Street, Newport Beach, California. Now I am not a
member of this Church, but Mrs. Ro Day is a member and has charge of the sewing
and embroidery part. On page 662 of the September issue is a picture of Mrs. McBride.
I am the same age and do all the things that she does— also take care of my garden
and patio. Elfie A. Robsne, Newport Beach, California


The Relief SOCIClyY Magazine Volume 56 February 1969 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 84 According to the Law of Heaven Marion G. Romney 106 Diet and Heart Disease The American Heart Association 124 Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is Margery S. Cannon Fiction 91 The Perfect Gift Rosa Lee Lloyd 99 Common Ground Lynne Partridge 107 A Day for Diddle-Daddling Alice Morrey Bailey 126 Welcome the Task—Chapter 4 Michele Bartmess General Features 82 From 'Near and Far 103 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 104 Editorial—Loyalty Louise W. Madsen 132 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 160 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 114 Hobbies—Handicraft for Bazaars 115 Made-Over Dolls Myrtle R. Olson 119 Grandmother and the Stockings Mada W. Stanger 120 Recipes From Italy Caro! Berrey 122 A New Oilcloth Mabel Luke Anderson 123 Young Friend Ida A. Isaacson Lesson Department 140 Spiritual Living—Doctrinal Instructions Roy W. Doxey 145 Visiting Teacher Message— ''... Thou Shalt Be Reconciled' Alice Colton Smith 147 Homemaking—Let's Go Inside (Continued) Celestia J. Taylor 148 Social Relations—Are We Preparing? Alberta H. Christensen 152 Cultural Refinement—The Achievement of Serenity Bruce B. Clark Poetry 81 Listen to Silence | Think of Beaches, Pearle M. Olsen 90; Peace Reach, Gay N. Blanchard 98; Generation Span, Verna S. Carter 102; City Watercolor Scene, Katherine F. Larsen 106; Abraham Lincoln, Mabel Jones Gabbott 112; Waiting, Carmen Daines Fredrickson 118; On A Stormy Night, Dorothy J. Roberts 119; More Violets Will Bloom, Zara Sabin 121; Indian Weaver, Enola Chamberlin 123; Children on a Deserted Beach, Ethel Jacobson 125; To Be Near You, Rowena Jensen Bills 131; Of Man and God, Alda L. Brown 146; Marriage, Julie Wilson 157; The Mountains Cry, Renata W. Sukys 158; The Silver Song, Beulah Huish Sadleir 158; Jacaranda Tree, Bernice Ames 159; Spring Waits Close, Linnie Fisher Robinson 159. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

83 According to the Law of Heaven Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 2, 1968. ] @ I am happy to be here, Sister Spafford. I have enjoyed this meeting very much. I feel right at home. This lovely chorus from Rigby has thrilled us with their lovely music and I feel as if I were part of the Rigby Stake. Although I have never lived there, I did once court a girl who lived in Rigby, and I met my wife just a few miles from there, up at Rexburg. I've always felt I was a part of that great upper Snake River community. I commend them. When Sister Witehira offered the invocation, I remembered the assignment given to me by President McKay to organize the Auckland Stake. 84 That was back in 1958, I believe. He had invited Sister Romney and me to go to the dedication of the New Zealand Temple. He told me he would expect us to tour the islands of the Pacific on the way home. We were sitting in the Auckland chapel one day after the dedication, when President McKay _ said, "Brother Romney, I want you to stay here and organize the Auckland Stake, the first stake south of the equator in this dispensation." I remembered, too, that about the fifteenth of August of this year I was in the Auckland airport where I nearly froze. Sister Romney and I were on our way to Australia. When Sister Dawson spoke, I remembered that we were in Perth holding conference on the twenty-fourth of August, just the other day. There, at Fremantle, we looked out over the Indian Ocean—and we did more than that—we flew over it—between 5,000 and 6,000 miles. It is quite a pond of water. Our destination was Johannesburg, South Africa. When this dear sister from South America, Sister de Mella, gave her talk in Spanish, it thrilled me again, because for ten years Sister Romney and I have been working with the Spanish-speaking people in Central America, Mexico, and on this side of the border. And, of course, I have met. Sister Spafford before. We labored together for many years in the welfare work, and now I am an advisor to the Relief Society. So I feel at home here. I hope I can continue to so feel and that I can deliver the message I have prepared, under the spirit that we have enjoyed here this morning. In the meeting of March 17, 1842, in which the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, it is reported that President John Taylor said he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven." (Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842, page 8.) In their invitation to me to speak here today, the Presidency of the Relief Society expressed the wish that I speak to these words of President Taylor. It is rather a narrow subject, and so it took considerable preparation. But, since I am the junior advisor to the Relief Society, a suggestion by the Presidency is, of course, a command to me. I shall therefore do my best. PRESIDENT TAYLOR RECOGNIZED POTENTIAL OF RELIEF SOCIETY To begin with, I want to say that I do not believe President Taylor's statement was lightly made. I think his words were carefully chosen and deliberately spoken. I am further persuaded that, in addition to his witness that the Prophet had organized the Relief Society "according to the law of heaven," he had a profound understanding of the significance of what had been done. I think he rather fully realized the potentialities of this great According to the Law of Heaven organization, and that he did, in fact, rejoice in its organization according to the law of heaven. In support of this thesis, I call your attention to the fact that he had a great intellect, which through hard work and diligent study he had trained and disciplined; and that he had a profound understanding of law, particularly the: law of heaven which he equated to the law of the gospel. Concerning his mental capacity, President Brigham Young paid him this tribute: With regard to Brother John Taylor, I will say that he has one of the strongest intellects that can be found. He is a powerful man, and we may say that he is a powerful editor. But I will use a term to suit myself and say that he is one of the strongest editors that ever wrote. (The Gospel Kingdom, Introduction to Book I, Compiled by Homer Durham.) That is a great tribute from President Young. With respect to John Taylor's training and his self-disciplining, a brief résumé of his life will testify. John Taylor was born November 1, 1808, in Westmoreland, England. He was christened in the Church of England and he early exhibited religious tendencies. B. H. Roberts says in his Life of John Taylor, that he... Possessed a portion of the spinit of God.... Manifestations of its presence were frequent, not only in the expansion of his mind to understand doctrines and principles, but also in dreams and visions. "Often when alone," he writes, "and sometimes in company, I heard sweet, soft, melodious music, as if performed by angelic or supernatural beings." When but a small boy he saw, in vision, an angel in the heavens, holding a trumpet to his mouth, sounding a message to the 85 February 1969 nations. (Life of John Taylor, by B. H. Roberts, 1892 edition, pp. 27-28.) Believing that he found more light in Methodism, he became a Methodist. Walking to his first appointment as a local Methodist preacher, at seventeen years of age, he suddenly stopped and said to his companion, "I have a strong impression on my mind, that I have to go to America to preach the gospel!"' A SEARCH FOR SATISFACTION So strong was this impression that nine years later, when the ship on which he was traveling to Canada was so threatened in a severe storm that the captain and officers were expecting her to go down, he had no fear. The voice of the spirit was still saying within him, "You must yet go to America and preach the gospel." ([bid., page 29.) In Toronto, although successful as a Methodist preacher, he was never satisfied with the doctrines of that church. Although he was now preaching the gospel in America, he often said to his wife, "This is not the work; it is something of more importance." ([bid., page 30.) He, with several others who could find no satisfaction in the sectarian doctrines of the day, clung to the Bible, studied its teachings, and met several times a week to search the scriptures, and investigate the doctrines of the Christian religion as contained in the Bible... They agreed, in their investigation, to reject every man's opinion and work, and to search the scriptures alone, praying for the guidance of the Holy Spirit. (Ibid., page 31.) Because of their beliefs, they voluntarily forfeited their offices 86 in the Methodist Church. It was under these conditions that John Taylor was contacted by Parley P. Pratt. John Taylor had _ previously heard only evil rumors about the Mormons. He was, therefore, not very receptive at first. Finally, however, Parley P. Pratt was. Introduced to Mr. Taylor and his religious friends. They were delighted with his preaching... [which] was in strict harmony with what they themselves believed; but what he had to say about Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon perplexed a great many, and some of their members even refused to investigate it]. John Taylor, however, was of a different mind. We are here [he said to his associates], ostensibly in search of truth. Hitherto we have fully investigated other creeds and doctrines and proved them false. Why should we fear to investigate Mormonism?... I desire to investigate his [Mr. Pratt's] doctrines and claims to authority, and shall be very glad if some of my friends will unite with me in this investigation. But if no one will unite with me, be assured I shall make the investigation alone. If I find his religion true, I shall accept it, no matter what the consequences may be; and if false, then I shall expose it. After this, John Taylor began the investigation of Mormonism in earnest and on the 9th of May 1836, himself and his wife were baptized. ([bid., pages 37- 38.) DEFENDER OF THE PROPHET Ten months later he visited Kirtland, where he was entertained in the Prophet's home. At that time apostasy was rampant in Kirtland, but John Taylor fearlessly and effectively defended the Prophet. In August of 1837, he received word from the Prophet that he would be called to fill one of the vacancies in the Quorum of the Twelve. To this office he was called and ordained by Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball, December 18, 1838. In the meantime, he had completed, with his family, a tortuous journey from Toronto to Far West, Missouri. With fortitude and courage, he endured the hardships incident to the Missouri persecutions and the expulsion of the saints from that State. Between August 1839 and July 1841, he performed a memorable mission in England. Back home, he was immediately loaded with responsibilities incident to the development of Nauvoo and the expansion of the Church. [In] February, 1842, [the month before the Relief Society was organized] he was chosen associate editor of the Times and Seasons... (Ibid., page 102.) Prominent among President Taylor's many attainments was, as already indicated, a profound understanding of law and _ its controlling function in the universe. It was, therefore, natural for him to use the word "law" in his description of the Relief Society organization. An understanding that God created and governs the universe strictly according to law was for him the beginning of all wisdom. All things are under the influence, control and government of law... The sun rises and sets regularly, the earth revolves upon its axis, and so it is with all the planetary systems.... Heavenly bodies... Are governed by a science and intelligence that is beyond the reach of men in mortality they move strictly according to certain laws by which all of them have been, are, and will be governed. And these laws are under the surveillance and control of the great LawAccording to the Law of Heaven giver, who manages, controls, and directs all these worlds... Everything in Nature is governed strictly according to immutable, eternal, unchangeable laws, practical, philosophical, and strictly scientific, if these terms are preferred; but they are, nevertheless, placed there by the AIlmighty. (The Gospel Kingdom, Homer Durham, pp. 67-68.) He recognized the laws of nature concerning which men of science and _ philosophy have learned so much—particularly in this modern time—and he respected them. ANOTHER FIELD OF LAW But he knew there was another field of law—the law of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which holds the key to a knowledge and control of all things. He had a keen appreciation of the difference between these two fields of law. There is a philosophy of the earth and a philosophy. Of the heavens. The latter can unravel all mysteries pertaining to the earth. But the philosophy of the earth cannot enter into the mysteries of the kingdom of God, or the purposés of the Most High. (/bid., page 73.) That John Taylor did not regard philosophy as the key to a knowledge of heavenly things is evident from the following statement: Speaking of philosophy... I was almost buried up in it while I was in Paris. I was walking about one day in the Jardin des. Plantes—a_ splendid garden. There they had a sort of exceedingly light cake. It was so thin and light that vou could blow it away, and you could eat all day of it, and never be satisfied. Somebody asked me what the name of it was. I said, I don't know the proper name, but in the absence of one, I can give it a name—I will call it philosophy, or fried froth, whichever vou like. It is 87 February 1969 so light you can blow it away, eat it all day, and at night be as far from being satisfied as when you began.... (Ibid., page 78.) John Taylor recognized in the gospel the "adhesive principle sufficiently powerful to unite" the peoples of the earth. (lbid., page 83.) We. Under the inspiration of the Almighty, will introduce the laws of God that exist in the heavens and upon the earth. And form a nucleus of truth, of virtue and intelligence. Of law and order. Of principles pertaining to morals, to philosophy, to politics, to religion, and to everything that is pure, exalting, and ennobling, and the kingdom will be the Lord's. (Ibid., page 83.) He predicted that we will yet see the world... Flocking to Zion by thousands and tens of thousands they will say, "We don't know anything about your religion, we don't care much about religious matters, but you are honest and honorable, and upright and just, and you have a good, just and secure government, and we want to put ourselves under your protection, for we cannot feel safe anywhere else. (Jbid., page 72.) He frequently spoke of the power of the priesthood and its administrative function in the law of heaven. Here is an example: We are the offspring of God, and God in these last days has seen. Fit to place us in communication with himself. He has, through the revelations of himself and of his Son Jesus Christ, by the ministry of holy angels and by the restoration of the holy priesthood which emanates from God, and by which he himself is governed, placed us in a position whereby we can fulfill the object of our creation. There are certain eternal laws that have existed from before the foundation of the world. There has been a priesthood also in existence always, and hence it is called the everlasting priesthood, and it is administered in time and in eternity. 88 That priesthood has been conferred upon man together with the right of the gospel. And we are told how man can get into possession of the Holy Spirit of God, and how he can be placed in communication with God. ([bid., pp. 70-71.) It is altogether understandable that John Taylor, with his understanding, faith, and expectations, would be alert and sensitive to what was going on as he saw and heard the Prophet organize the Relief Society, and he understood Joseph's statements that "the Lord has something better for them than a written constitution." That is what the Prophet told Eliza R. Snow when she took to him several articles of incorporation which the sisters had drawn up as a prospective guide for their organization. And_ the Prophet said the Lord had something better for the sisters than a written constitution. SISTERS ORGANIZED UNDER THE PRIESTHOOD And he understood what the Prophet was talking about when he said: I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood.... This Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 14.) John Taylor understood this as few do, and these statements must have had a profound influence, as also did the Prophet's instructions that.. The Society of the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants—to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls. The Prophet also declared to the sisters that they would receive instructions from the order of the priesthood which God _ has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation.... (Jbid., pp. 15-16.) That was the constitution for the Relief Society. And the Prophet further stated that if they needed his instruction, to ask him and he would give it "from time to time." These statements opened to the mind of John Taylor new visions of the role that women were to play in the building of Zion. He fully realized that a society "under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood'— which Priesthood he knew to be the power and the pattern of government by which and under which God himself orders and controls the universe—was indeed "organized according to the law of heaven." He knew that the "something" which the Lord had for the sisters—which would be "better for them than a written constitution" —was the guidance of the living oracles of God— those Priesthood bearers with whom God himself communicates and through whom he directs his work in the earth. Such a constitution, he knew, would give the Relief Society guidance superior to that enjoyed by any other female organization in the earth. THE SPIRIT BORE RECORD We may be assured that no implication of this divine organiAccording to the Law of Heaven zational pattern escaped the keen, well-ordered mind of John Taylor. To him the spirit bore record that it was indeed organized "according to the law of heaven." Surely, in this knowledge, he had reason, and did as he said, rejoice. He had further cause to rejoice in the knowledge that in organizing the Relief Society "according to the law of heaven," the Prophet was taking a major step toward perfecting the organization of the Church. Again, he would have rejoiced in his prophetic vision of the service this great organization was destined to render as it pursued the objectives prescribed by the Prophet—service in extending sustenance to the needy, comfort to the bereaved, and joy to the sorrowing, for This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God _ has planted in your bosoms. (DHC IV: 605.) And, finally, he would have rejoiced as he contemplated the blessings promised to Relief Society sisters by the Prophet in these words: If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. (Ibid., page 605.) All these, and many other considerations, give solemnity and significance to the statement of John Taylor that he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven." God bless you, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 89 | THINK OF BEACHES Light shades are quickening on darker blues, And whitecaps ride upon the building crest Of waves that drench the waiting sand. Then rush away to join a deep unrest. | walk along the beach and swing my arms In metered time with each returning wave. | think of beaches girdling the earth Where these same waters fondle and engrave The sands that wait for their own time, Leaving driftwood and empty shells Then wilfully exchange again Their patterned greetings and farewells. —Pearle M. Olsen The: *¥ Rosa Lee Lloyd m Sadie McGregor awakened with a warm, happy glow in her young heart. This was to be a big day in her ordinary workaday life. It was the day she had planned and prepared for ever since last spring when she had realized that Mrs. Harriet Hollenbeck, for whom she had cleaned house every Saturday for the last ten years, was having a difficult time financially since Mr. Hollenbeck's death a year ago. Mrs. Hollenbeck seemed like the wealthiest of all the women Sadie cleaned for. She was noted for her charities and her work for the blind and her' generous baskets to the underprivileged at oint Sur on the California Coast Photo by Josef Muench Perfect Gift 'Now a tall glass of milk for each of us." === hristmas time. Mrs. Hollenbeck, blond and queenly beautiful, was really Lady Bountiful in Crystal Falls. Sadie couldn't count the lovely things she had given to her over the years since she was nineteen. She sat on the little chintz covered chair near her bed and looked around gratefully at her two-room apartment. She leaned over, touching the flowered bedspread Mrs. Hollenbeck had given to her last Christmas. Her blue eyes misted as they looked at the little carved table that held her television set and the gold vase with the imported artificial roses, the curtains with real lace edging them—all gifts from Mrs. Hollenbeck. Sadie's heart sang with gratitude that now, this very day, she on 2 Bee February 1969 was going to do something special for Mrs. Hollenbeck. This apartment was Sadie's corner of paradise. This was where she came home after the long, hard cleaning days, six days a week every week of the year; this was where she kicked off her sturdy, black shoes and put on those elegant pink slippers with the saucy little bows that her niece, Carolyn, had sent for her birthday with the cute note that said: Wear these, Aunt Sadie, when you want to feel like Cinderella at the ball. And don't quit looking for Prince Charming! Whaat Prince Charming? Sadie thought, with a sigh. Would there ever be a Prince Charming for her, she wondered wistfully? But she did feel a sort of loveliness about her when she wore the slippers. She really did, in spite of her practical mind. She had saved every penny she could to buy the pink flowered housecoat that added more elegance to the slippers. Saving pennies was not easy for Sadie McGregor. There was her rent to pay, food was costing more and more each time she went to market, and there was her nephew Ted to help through college. He could depend on Sadie's check every month the way he could depend that the world would turn on its axis. She had helped her other nephews, Tom, Jack, and Bill through college, and now Ted who was the youngest. And she always saved money for the day when she could not work quite so hard. This morning she put the pink 92 slippers by her big chair, ready for her when she would come home. The flowered housecoat hung nearby in her closert. She knew she was not a glamorous girl, the kind shown in the fashion magazines, but some of the women she _ worked for praised her fresh rosy cheeks and wavy brown hair and told her she was the best cleaning woman in Crystal Falls. I do the best I can with what the Heavenly Father has given to me, she told herself. And, above all, she was grateful for good health and nice people to work for. Especially Mrs. Hollenbeck. She should not have favorites, of course, but who could help loving one person a little more than another when one was so kind and considerate and worth loving? It was exactly nine o'clock when Sadie rang the bell at the Hollenbeck front door. That was another sweet thing about Mrs. Hollenbeck, she always insisted that Sadie enter and leave by the front door. Sadie rang again. No answer. She rang again, then again, lhstening as the chimes echoed through the hallway. Mrs. Hollenbeck must have overslept, Sadie thought, holding back an anxious thought. Where could she be and how could Sadie get in to see if she was all right? "The door is unlocked," a hearty male voice called from the sidewalk. Sadie swung around. A big, ruddy-faced man was getting off a bicycle, leaning it carefully against the rolling lawn, then walked up the pathway toward her. Sadie had the strangest feeling that she had seen him before. He was bareheaded and sunburnt and looked, at the same time, like a man who could plow a field or preach a sermon, doing both with vigor and ability. I is Mrs. Hollenbeck's brother, Dr. Judson Ryan, Sadie thought. She has his picture in her bedroom. I have dusted it many times. He was coming for spring vacation and here it was springtime in Crystal Falls! "You must be Sadie," he said, smiling a big, wide smile that made Sadie smile back. "Harriet told me to let you in at nine o'clock. So I unlocked the front door while I took a whirl around the block waiting for you. She's gone to help with the spring party for the blind children. She will be home before you leave." "You must be her brother, Dr. Judson Ryan," Sadie said. The big man nodded his head. "Tm Dr. Ryan, all right. But I'm not a medical doctor. I'm a veterinarian at the zoo in Bridge City. It's a fine place for me. I love my work, but I don't fly under false colors. So you just call me Dr. Jud the way everyone else does.", He opened the door and Sadie followed him inside. "T'll start in the kitchen," she told him. "Ill get the scrubbing done first, then the dusting and polishing will seem like fun." "That's right!" he agreed. He was looking at her with steady humorous eyes that had little crinkles at the corners. "We have to make fun out of hard work. If we don't we have a sorry time of it. Now Ill be The Perfect Gift off for my morning bicycle ride. Good for the old legs." Sadie heard the front door close, then she took a moment to run to the front window to watch him stride down the walk, get on his bicycle, and ride off into the sunshine. She was thoughtful while scrubbing and waxing the kitchen floor. Mrs. Hollenbeck had three brothers, she remembered. She always shrugged her shoulders when she spoke of Judson. "He's a real character. He never does anything we expect him to do. My parents gave all of us equal opportunity; Harold is president of Abion Incorporated, Charles is an outstanding lawyer, and both have fine families. But Judson!" she had shrugged her shoulders again and an indulgent smile curved her lovely lips. "He loved all the dogs and cats in the neighborhood. He was always bringing home some animal that was hurt and trying to make it well. He could have been a great surgeon, but no, he wanted to be an animal doctor at the zoo. We have all tried to find a wife for him, he's so attractive and lovable. But he told us he would select his own girl. He's the happiest bachelor I know, so who's to say what he should do?" It was almost noon when Sadie finished cleaning the lower level of the house. She stood near the stairway and surveyed her morning's work. Everything was scrubbed and polished and reflected the special touch of love she had given to it on this very special day—Mrs. Hollenbeck's birthday. Sadie decided to eat the luncheon she had brought before she 93 February 1969 started the upstairs. She had taken her bologna sandwich and shining red apple from the refrigerator when Dr. Judson came in, looking like a man who has just climbed a mountain. He stood in the kitchen doorway beaming down at her. "A good-sized sandwich and a big red apple—just what I like for my lunch. Now you wait a minute until I fix mine and we'll eat together. No fun eating alone!"' Sadie sat quietly at the table with her hands folded in her lap. She hoped Dr. Jud wouldn't notice that her hands were red and rough and her nails chipped a little. Oh, how she wished she had worn her rubber gloves this morning! She would have liked to offer to make his sandwich, but it seemed wiser just to sit and listen to him talk. After all, eating with her was his idea, and if Mrs. Hollenbeck came home unexpectedly and he was making his own sandwich, she would see it was his idea. "Now a tall glass of milk for each of us," he was saying. As he sat down across the table from her, the clock in the hallway chimed twelve o'clock. Sadie listened to each lovely chime, holding her breath a little, clinging to each magic moment. She was sure no hour ever passed so quickly, no food ever tasted so good, no milk ever looked so white and creamy, and no girl was ever so happily entertained as she was. He told her of Madame Lassa, the lioness, who had just had cubs, and how 94 he worked to save the life of old Mr. Philicus, the huge bear that had lived longer than any bear the zoo ever had. He told her of a trip he planned to Africa as soon as he could arrange it, and of the strange, new animals he would bring home to Bridge City Zoo. This is the way life should be, she kept thinking. This is the way our Heavenly Father has planned things; work and laugh and talk together. Oh, I must not care for him this way, Sadie told herself over and over. I must not be so fascinated with the things he says. He is Mrs. Hollenbeck's brother, and she wouldn't like me to care this way. I am only Sadie, her cleaning woman. She glanced quickly at her wrist watch, then got to her feet. "It's after one!" she gasped. "T must hurry. There's all the upstairs to do!" "Now you take it easy, Sadie." Dr. Jud followed her to the stairway. "You've done a day's work already. What we should do is rent another bicycle and take you out into the country to see the blossoms. They should be coming out by now. How about it? Can you ride?" Sadies' heart beat up into her throat. She could only stand there looking at him. Their eyes caught and held and a sort of wonder passed between them. "I—I have my work to do," she managed. "I promised, Dr. Jud. I wouldn't disappoint Mrs. Hollenbeck for anything." He pretended to scowl at her. "Are you turning me down, Sadie? Don't you want to ride out and see the blossoms with me?" "Oh, I do! I do!" she exclaimed, "but I can't leave my work today." "Tomorrow?" he questioned, holding her eyes with his own. Sadie was unable to answer for the torment in her mind. Oh, Dr. Jud, she thought, you will never know how much I would like to go with you tomorrow. I can ride a bicycle. It would be a day out of heaven for me. But how can I do this to Mrs. Hollenbeck? How can I go out with her own brother? She might be displeased. She might never let me work for her again. CD. Jud seemed to realize the conflict in her mind. "I know," he said, "you think Harriet might not approve." His voice strengthened. "Now you listen to me, Sadie. I am my own man. Always have been. I do what's right and fair to everyone. I have never willingly hurt a living creature in this universe, but when I see a girl with rosy cheeks and eyes as blue and honest as the sky on a clear day, and I can laugh with her and talk with her and the world is suddenly happier because I have met her, I'm not going to listen to anyone who doesn't approve. Not when I feel right in here about it." He tapped his big chest. "You be ready about six in the morning," he added, and his voice was almost convincing. "T'll be over with the bicycles and our luncheon." He turned abruptly and strode out of the front door. Sadie stood completely still for a long breathless moment. He's strong, she thought, over a catchy little sigh. And he's The Perfect Gift good and he's my idea of she whispered the last words in her secret heart as she turned and ran up the stairway. Oh, Mrs. Hollenbeck, she thought, as she moved the furniture and ran the vacuum over the beautiful green carpet, please try to understand. Please be kind about this. I don't want to intrude into your life. I know how proud you are. [ didn't try to win your brother. I was only being myself, Sadie McGregor, who would work her fingers to the bone for you! Sadie worked without a pause until five o'clock. Everything in the house glistened in the soft afternoon sunshine _ glinting through the windows. She sat on the gold and white bench in the front hallway holding her purse on her lap as she waited for Mrs. Hollenbeck. It held the precious note she had taken almost a week to write. It had to say just the right words. Dear Mrs. Hollenbeck: I wanted to give you something to let you know how much I admire you and appreciate you and always will. My gift is my seven hours work today. I have polished everything extra special and my heart and my love come with my gift. Yours truly Sadie McGregor Her head came up as she heard Mrs. Hollenbeck's:-car. In the driveway. She took: the envelope from her purse and» got to her feet. A. Glad, warm happiness flowed through her, easing her tired body. This was the moment she had planned for. Mrs. Hollenbeck rang the bell and Sadie had the door open bee: fore the chimes faded away. "Hello, Sadie," she said cor- 95 February 1969 dially as she took the scarf from her lovely blond hair. "What a day! What a lot of people to look after. My, everything looks so clean and beautiful. What would I do without you, Sadie?" Her eyes went over everything approvingly, then came back to Sadie. She opened her purse and took out a ten dollar bill and two one dollar bills. "A little extra tip today, Sadie," she smiled, handing them to her. Sadie took the bills and with a swift gesture she put them in the envelope with her note. Then she handed it to Mrs. Hollenbeck, watching her with shining, expectant eyes. Mrs. Hollenbeck opened the envelope, glanced questioningly at Sadie, then read the note. Sadie waited for her face to brighten into a smile. She waited tremulously, for the touch of her hand, for the sweet words of appreciation she had dreamed of hearing. Instead, Mrs. Hollenbeck's face was a carved mask. She put the bills in the envelope and handed it back to Sadie. "T can't," she said. "I can't let you do this, Sadie. A whole day's work!" Her voice was gracious and kind as always and she was smiling, but Sadie felt suddenly freezing cold as though she had walked headfirst into an icy wind. She shivered. "T can't let you do this," Mrs. Hollenbeck repeated. "It wouldn't —be right." Without a word Sadie put the envelope into her purse and walked out into the chilly April twilight. 96 She generally took the bus home after a long day's work, but tonight she held her coat tightly around her and walked toward her apartment seven blocks away. She bit her lip to keep it from trembling and she held back the tears; but they stung her eyes and spilled over on her cheeks, in spite of her determination not to cry. There was no reason for her to cry because she had done nothing wrong, she told herself, lifting her head as her chin squared off. Heavenly Father knew she had meant no disrespect to Mrs. Hollenbeck. She had given what she had to give with her heart's love, and, somehow, she knew it was right and she refused to cry about something that was good. She walked the seven blocks to her apartment with her chin as firm and her heart as convinced as any of her Scotch ancestors who had sailed the seas or pioneered this valley. She was bone weary and very hungry, as she unlocked the door and turned on the lights. She would boil a potato, fry a steak, and make a fresh green salad with crispy little onions on top. But first, she decided with a determined smile, she would put on her pink slippers with the little bows and wear her bright flowered housecoat she had been saving for a special day. A special day, she repeated, feeling like a wounded animal, hurting deep inside. Life had to go on, she had learned when she had lost her parents when she was only nineteen, and you had to cling to the good things that happened to you until the dark, ugly shadows faded away. The good things, she whispered to herself, like meeting Dr. Jud. Even if she never saw him again, still, just meeting him had made it a very special day. She had barely stepped into her pink slippers and buttoned her housecoat when the door bell rang. Sadie stood very still wondering who would call at dinnertime. Here she was all prettied up in her pink outfit. Would they be surprised! Then she shrugged her shoulders and opened the door. Mrs. Hollenbeck stood there, with her lovely hair looking as though she had been riding in the wind without her head scarf. Her eyes were brimming with tears and her cheeks were streaked. "Sadie " She put her hands out as though reaching for courage. Sadie took them in both her own and pulled her gently inside. "T've come—for the gift you 33 gave me The Perfect Gift Mrs. Hollenbeck's voice stumbled and Sadie bent her head to hear her. "I've come to tell you how—how wrong I was. How ungracious. Please—forgive me.' She covered her face with her hands, and Sadie put her strong young arms around her and held her until she could control her tears. "My brother Jud told me many things, Sadie. Jud never minces words. He said I hadn't given as much in my whole lifetime as you had offered me tonight. He said—I had to learn to be a gracious receiver as well as a gracious giver. Then he reminded me of a poet that our mother always quoted: 'Who gives of himself feeds three, himself, his hungering neighbor and me." S adie could not speak for the hot lump in her throat. That bit of poetry said everything to her. She wished she knew more about poetry, but she had been so busy earning a living and keeping her own apartment, there hadn't been much time for poetry; but from this minute on she would take time to learn more about poems and what the poets meant as Dr. Jud did. Mrs. Hollenbeck wiped her cheeks with a dainty lace handkerchief. "T'm here, Sadie, to tell you I will gladly accept your gift. It is one of the dearest gifts ever offered to me." Sadie walked to the table, opened her purse and took out the envelope. "Thank you, dear," Mrs. Hollenbeck said as she took it. Her voice was gracious and charming again and her shoulders didn't 97 February 1969 droop any more. She smoothed her hair back into place. Then her eyes went over Sadie, head to toes as though looking at her for the-first time. She gazed a long moment at Sadie's pink slippers with the gay little bows. Her eyes went over the flowered housecoat again, then up to her curly brown hair. Sadie's cheeks pinked up and she looked like a girl in her teens. Mrs. Hollenbeck's eyes had a bright warm glow that erased the hurt in Sadie's heart. "T can see what Jud means," she said at last. "He told me he had found a girl with roses in her cheeks, dreams in her eyes, and a heart as honest as the Rocky Mountains." Mrs. Hollenbeck's lips quirked. "Sometimes Jud gets his poetry mixed up with the practical. But I know what he meant." She turned toward the door, then she faced Sadie again. "Whatever happens, Sadie, between you and Jud—remember —you both have my blessing." She closed the door gently behind her. Sadie leaned back against it breathing a little prayer. Then she looked. Down at her pink slippers. 'There really is a_ Prince Charming for every girl, she thought as she danced toward the kitchen. There really is! She must write to her niece and thank her for the slippers. Se PEACE REACH Where is the word to reach another heart? Oh, where the phrase To link your understanding With my thought? Words on words, Carefully chosen words... Lest your heart note my true intent Or read mistaken inflections Into the yearnings | would have you feel. And still | cannot be sure... Is there a way to oneness in our thought? Or must | despair your ever really knowing What is in my heart? There is one word The word that was in the Beginning 'And the Word was God."' He can weld our thoughts in sameness And melt our understanding Into one clear stream, If only we may be in tune And find with him that oneness To know together, truth. 98 —Gay N. Blanchard Co mmon G roun d Lynne Partridge Laie, Hawaii @ Our prejudices are manmade, self-limiting blinders, and indeed, were we to gaze openly at reality, we would see that what existed in our minds had little, if any, connection with reality —or so I have come to believe since my tenth year. In 1911, in Coalville, Utah, my grandmothers met for the first time. The meeting took place in the snow-blue, wallpapered living room of my parents' two-story brick house, the house which my father had built three years before after being made president of the Coalville Bank. I was present at this historic, now almost legendary confrontation, only because I was unnoticed. I was small for age ten, and with brown eyes, auburn hair, brown pin-striped blouse, and brown skirt, I could blend into the woodwork, especially behind the staircase. I don't remember when I first heard my parents discuss the possibility of their mothers' meeting one another, but it was a regular, recurring topic in conversation at our house. It would invariably begin by Mother saying, "Franklin, I think it behooves us to bring Mother down for a rest." Papa would agree that Mother Tarbert, after sixteen children and fifteen toilsome, rigorous, austere years on a_ northern Wyoming farm, merited a rest. "Pauline," he would - say, "why don't you write to your mother and invite her to stay with you a month?" Here Mother would wonder if Mother Pamier, my father's 98 February 1969 mother, might come to visit from Ogden, and thus the two could meet, and wouldn't that be lovely? Tev times my mother had tried to persuade her mother to come for a visit. Not because Grandmother needed a rest, but because Mother needed help with a new baby or in moving to a new and better house, as we did on occasion. But to both of these approaches Grandmother Tarbert regularly had returned adamant "No's."' "You are well enough off," she would write, "to hire all the help you need." And _ her letter usually closed with a description of the crops yet to be planted, or the animals which had calved recently, or the yield from the sugar beet crops which were the only crops worth any money. G randmother Tarbert had not approved my mother's marriage. Franklin Pamier was one of those rich Pamiers from Ogden, and the banker Pamiers, Dezzie Tarbert maintained, were not like, nor company of, the farmer pioneer Tarberts. Though Dezzie bore her sixteen children in Morgan, she and her Charles Edward tore up roots and moved their meager belongings and substantial family to Wyoming when Brigham Young called for men to settle the Big Horn. There they prospered, to a degree, and the older children to a greater degree proliferated, but they had not become rich. And they had not left Morgan before Pauline, the ninth of Dezzie's children, had met Frank. Frank, in Pauline's mind, was 100 a real gentleman. His language was gentle, his manner was gentle, even his clothes were gentle, and like everything else, refined. Frank spoke German and grammatical English; he walked erect with quiet, intelligent, unswerving determination, and he made Pauline feel like a court-bred lady. Dezzie could not fathom what her daughter saw in this cityman. To Dezzie, Frank's hands were soft and white compared to a farm boy's browned, sinewy hands. His scented beard, clean, tailored suits, polished shoes, and gold vest watch seemed almost unmanly beside the rough, dustcoated apparel of the pioneer boy. And Frank's speech was polite to the point of lacking force, Dezzie felt. And, anyway, she had an inherent distrust of men who made their livelihoods pushing pencils instead of plows. So, lacking both my grandmother's permission and_ her blessing, in the winter of 1899, and on horseback, my parents eloped. They rode for two hours through a dry, driving blizzard to the Morgan depot, caught a train to Salt Lake City, and were married January 5th. In subsequent years my grandmother forgave her daughter, and developed respect, even love for her son-in-law, but she had never come to visit, and she would not meet Frank's family. The miracle which ultimately precipitated my grandmothers' meeting came quite by accident. Grandmother Tarbert came to Morgan to attend one of her sisters critically ill with pneumonia. It became impossible for her not to come visit us, not with Coal- ville only twenty miles away, and my father the owner of a Pierce-Arrow, one of the fifteen cars in the county. And thus she had come, a sparse figure who pulled her storm-gray hair skin-tight over her head into a frugal bun at the back. She was only fiftyeight, but her wind-weathered, sun-etched face spoke more of one seventy. Her hands were bony, although quick and strong, and her voice was dry and cracked, reminding me of a bonfire. Her lips were thin and pursed. Her eyes, though, were young. They were black and penetrating, and alive with what seems to me now, a childlike curiosity. It was in those eyes that I fathomed my dear grandmother's backbone, her steel will, and, thank goodness, her sense of humor. There were two rockers in our living room, one a black, straightbacked, hardwood chair, and the other a_ pillowed, soft, floralprinted affair. Mother and I always preferred the latter, while my father usually chose a large, somber, stuffed, stationary armchair for his evening reading. For this meeting, Grandmother chose the black rocker. Grandmother Pamier, a frequent visitor at our house, sat as usual in the floral rocker. She was seventy-two, white haired, and had soft, pink-white skin. Her hands were not cracked or rough, and her smile was luminous, her voice lilting. I wondered, as had my parents for weeks, where two such women would find mutual territory. My parents left them alone Common Ground to find out. Papa took Mother for a ride, said they would be back in an hour after running some errands. [I nearly stopped breathing in the silence which settled in that room once the Pierce-Arrow could no_ longer be heard. The only sounds were our mantel clock, the occasional rustle of Grandmother Pamier's skirts—and the rapid, militant rocking of Grandmother 'Tarbert's chair. Grandmother Pamier, known for her ability to make people comfortable in social situations, began. "Sister Tarbert, I understand you and your husband do farm work in Wyoming." "We raise sugar beets, beef stock. Best crop is our children." "How many children do you have?" Without missing a beat in her rocking, Grandmother 'Tarbert pursed her lips reflectively, then, "The last six were boys." Grandmother Pamier looked sharply, and, for half a minute was silent. But she had borne twelve children herself, though three died in infancy, and she pressed forward. The conversation was staccato. Esther Pamier asked questions; Dezzie Tarbert answered them. They covered the subject of their combined twenty-eight children in roughly two and a half minutes, the only similarities seemingly being that each' bore children in '71, '74, '76, 78, and 80. Grandmother Pamier went back a further step: "I came to Salt Lake Valley in 1857, by wagon train,' she remembered. "When did you happen to come West, Sister Tarbert?" 101 February 1969 Dezzie Tarbert's sharp voice crackled. "We came then, too. Our company was made up of handcarts." Esther Pamier dropped the subject and again retreated. She must have noted, and I somehow felt, that Grandmother Tarbert, in her way, was trying to be warm, but somehow she couldn't, as if she didn't know how, or as if an unseen wall of pride prevented her from unbending before the older woman who sat opposite. "My family came from Hallow, in Worcester, England," Grandmother Pamier recounted. "We sailed from Liverpool in 1857." My Grandmother Tarbert's rocking slowed. "We came from Edinburgh," she said quietly, "and sailed from Liverpool that same year. I was seven. There was a storm on that voyage." Her eyes grew bottomless as she remembered. Grandmother Pamier sighed audibly, with relvef, I felt. And almost gaily she said, "Oh my! We experienced such a storm as you can't believe. Hundreds of us huddled together while that old ship, 'New Grinstead, pitched and rolled. I remember," and she paused as if recalling something she had not thought of in many years, "'there was a little Scots girl who hid her head under my skirts, until out of exhaustion, she fell asleep in my lap." Grandmother Tarbert's rocking had stopped. She rose from her chair, and as she did, I found Grandmother Pamier and I stood likewise. "That was my ship," her voice cracked, "J was that little girl!" The two old women embraced, and cried, and laughed, and suddenly I realized there J was standing, unseen, perfectly blended into the woodwork, grinning from ear to ear. I felt a little foolish, but I couldn't help it. They were infectious. They retraced the same subjects and this time couldn't talk fast enough to say all they wanted to say. When my parents returned an hour later they walked into the house open-mouthed, unnoticed by their two chattering mothers, sitting side by side on our plush, orange, stuffed couch. The following year Grandmother Pamier died, but I heard Grandmother Tarbert retell this story many times in the last twenty years of her life. And each time, I felt my first excitement in seeing two unlike old ladies discover common ground. Ss GENERATION SPAN In our lot on a city street Grows a mulberry tree. How interesting | think to Trace its genealogy. Perhaps its grandfather with Fruit and worm process Contributed the lovely silk In Grandma's wedding dress! —Verna S. Carter 102 Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency, received the second annual ''Eternal Quest of Womanhood" award at Utah State University, Logan, Utah, in November 1968. The citation, presented by Latter-day Saint women students at the University, was given under the direction of Linda Durrant, President, and Pam Fiscus, in charge of the program. The citation read, in part: ''We feel a need for someone living in our own time to look up to as a pattern. We feel your life is exemplary and worthy of the tribute.'' Sister Smith spoke and sang on the program. Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson, on a farewell First-Lady tour in November, visited a number of the beautification spots which are the fruition of her desires for America, combined with cooperation by Government conservation interests and art sponsorship. In Callifornia, Mrs. Johnson dedicated the country's newest National Park, which is conserving for future generations the magnificent Redwoods, some of them more than six hundred years old. Mrs. Richard M. Nixon brings to the very difficult post of First Lady of the United States, intelligence, beauty, poise, and experience in political and diplomatic affairs, with their many social demands. She is a devoted wife and mother. Jane Elligett, wife, mother, homemaker, graduate of Bryn Mawr College of Mathematics, presently a professor at South Florida Learning Center, is well-known as an executive and director of several public opinion surveys in the United States. She is also vicepresident of the Alfred Politz Research Foundation and has written a much discussed and useful book, ''Mathematics for the Disadvantaged."' Mirla Greenwood Thayne, Provo, Utah, is author of The Little Things—Poems, Stories, and Articles (Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City). Mrs. Thayne is a poet, lyricist, and musician. Her work is nationally known. Her talents have been put to use for family and friends. Jessamyn West, the talented Quaker writer who gave us The Friendly Persuasion, has returned to its delightful and admirable Birdwell family for her new novelette Underground, a humorous, dramatic, serious tale drawn from Civil War history. (Harcourt, Brace and World.) Marilyn Mercer, journalist, writes that today women constitute one-third of the American labor force. Only seven per cent of American doctors are women, however, and only ten per cent of women college teachers are full professors. Mrs. O. A. Beech is chairman of the Board, Beech Aircraft Corporation, and Mrs.. Cecilia Kline of Arizona is president of Kline Incorporated, advertising and public relations agency. Mrs. Kline has recently been honored with an appointment as a member of the Board of Directors of the National Society of Arts and Letters. 103 EDITORIAL Loyalty g 'Loyalty is one of the noblest attributes of the soul.'' (President David O. McKay.) Loyalty is a most desirable virtue, praised by poets, philosophers, and men of religion; honored by the great and the humble; sought by leaders of nations, churches, and other organizations; achieved by the unselfish and truly loving. Several important traits are encompassed in loyalty. FIDELITY is a facet of loyalty. It implies strict adherence to obligations and duties as well as respect for leaders, peers, and oneself. Fidelity is the virtue which leads one to remember and to keep vows, to be true to God, to fellow men, and to the teachings of parents. Wisdom dictates that one be true to himself in order to build a worthy life. Fidelity describes the true relationship of marriage partners. ALLEGIANCE is a component of loyalty. It is best defined as patriotism to one's country and homage to its flag, respect for law, and submission to authority. Support of leaders under whom one serves requires whole-hearted allegiance and willingess to follow prescribed policies and procedures. Allegiance is not a visionary concept. It is a real, constant, active support. 104 Anna B. Hart Edith S. Ethott Florence J Madsen Leone G Layton Blanche B Stoddard Aleine M Young Alberta H Christensen Mildred B Eyring Edith P Backman Winniefred S Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R Young Afton W Hunt Elsa T Peterson Fanny S Kiemitz Elizabeth B Winters Jenne R Scott Alice L Wilkinson Irene W Buehner Irene C Lloyd Hazel S Love Fawn H Sharp Celestia J Taylor Anne R Gledhill Belva 8 Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J Cannon Lila 8. Walch Lenore C Gundersen Marjorie C Pingree Darlene C Dedekind Edythe K Watson Ellen N Barnes Kathryn S Gilbert Verda F Burton Myrtle R Olson Alice C Smith Lucile P Peterson Elaine B Curtis Zelma R West Leanor J Brown Reba C Aldous Luella W Finlinson Norma B Ashton Mayola R Miltenberger Maurine M Haycock FAITHFULNESS is inherent in loyalty. A faithful person is trustworthy and dependable. Full confidence can be placed upon one who honors his calling and is de-. Voted to his work. Faithfulness has both religious and secular connotations and is expressed in adherence to ideals. UNSELFISHNESS is necessary to loyalty. One must be willing to submerge self-interest and selfaggrandizement for the good of others. In these days when great emphasis is placed on one's own betterment to the exclusion of concern for others, unselfish loyalty is a prized trait in an associate. As in all things, the Savior is the highest example. He had implicit confidence in the Father and the Father in him. Nothing could tempt him to be disloyal. "Therefore doth my Father love me,' Christ explained as he laid down his life to fulfill his mission. Having examined the nature of loyalty, it becomes apparent that the true Latter-day Saint strives to be loyal to himself, to his parents and their teachings, to his country, and to God and his Church. Loyalty is second only to love, the Prophet has said. Let loyalty be so ingrained in our characters that together the loyal followers of our Lord, true to the leaders he has placed over his Church, will present the face of strength and unity to the world. —L. W. M. 105 Diet and Heart Disease The American Heart Association Heart disease continues to reign as the nation's Number One Killer. More lives are lost to diseases of the heart and blood vessels than all other diseases combined. Research has made great strides in finding the causes and many cures. Probably the most hopeful news from research studies comes in the prevention of heart disease. What can you do to help prevent heart disease in your family? Answers from research point to certain "risk factors'' in heart disease. Among the risk factors are cigarette smoking, high blood pressure, lack of regular exercise, and regular physical check-ups with a physician; diet is one factor that needs particular attention. The woman in the home is probably the best person to encourage better eating habits in the American family. Scientific studies show that the American diet and our eating habits need some changes. The way to a man's heart is still through his stomach, but the old saying has taken on a new meaning: the food you eat can endanger your heart, or protect it. Many scientists now recommend a meal plan that is low in saturated fat and cholesterol and still provides all the essential nutrients. Your Heart Association believes that watching your diet is good preventive medicine. Contact your Heart Association for information and leaflets. Protect yourself and your family and support the fight against heart disease. CITY WATERCOLOR SCENE Now rain comes quietly, over and over Channeling on dark roofs of the town; Small dogs turn homeward, sparrows take cover Under wide eaves, as fine rain spins down. Low lying clouds and dun tree branches Blend in a wetwash of misted grays; Soiled snow recedes on soaked lawns, rain drenches Weed-covered lots, wet-blacks paved highways. Now that the maelstrom of white has ended, And snowadrifts reduced to a gutter-line, Come—rejoice at rain that has blended Winter and Spring in one blurred design. —Katherine F. Larsen 106 A Day for Diddle-Daddling Alice Morrey Bailey @ The breakfast dishes were still on the table when Etta Jennings came, trying to borrow a pattern for Eunice's dress, but we all sat, because Etta was company. Besides, we were just aS curious as we were polite, maybe more so. Etta hardly ever came to our house. "My land," Mama said. "What brings you out so early? I'll bet your work's all done already." "T always have my work done by eight o'clock," said Etta a little reprovingly. "It's a pattern "I thought you had patterns." I need. I've got to make Eunice a Fourth of July dress and she wants one just like Callie's." "T'd be more than glad," said Mama. "I'd give it to you in a minute, but I never used a pattern in my life." Janie's face was red about the dirty dishes, and I felt mine was, too, because it was eight o'clock and we hadn't even started our work, but it helped when Etta said: "Callie always looks like she just stepped out of the Sears Roebuck catalogue." Callie was I. "That's where I get the ideas for her dresses,» Mama said, but Etta was getting up to go. "T thought you had patterns," she said, her face screwed up with worry. She was a thin woman and her face looked like somebody 107 February 1969 had set an egg-beater in the middle of it and given it half a turn. "No," Mama said. "At twentyfive cents apiece and me with five girls? I make my own, out of newspaper. I pin them on, of course, till they are right before I cut into the cloth. It's easy, Etta. You just " "T would never dare! I'll borrow a pattern from Annie, but | I've got to get at it." She looked discontentedly around our dining room. "I declare! I don't know how you get over the ground with seven kids and farm help to do for. Me, with only one child, and I'm on the run every minute." Mama thought that over as if it was news to her. "I do have a lot to do, don't I?" When Etta was gone Mama looked after her with approval. "There's a woman who never diddle-daddles. Here it is only eight and she has her dishes done and her beds made and she knows exactly what she is going to do every minute of this day. I admire a woman like that." E tta was hitching along down the path, giving a little jerk about every third step. She seemed to be hurrying, but was going up and down and from side to side as much as she was going forward. When Mama walked she didn't seem to hurry, but I had to run to keep up. "Mama, when are we going to make my Fourth dress?" I asked. I just ached for her to say "right now." "Why, child! It's only May." "IT know, but Etta is starting Eunice's dress right now." "Tll think about it," Mama said. Sometimes Mama thought 108 about a thing a whole month, and the night before the Fourth she was almost always up till two or three finishing dresses for us girls, but somehow they were always laid out on the beds in plenty of time before the celebration. "Right now I am going to make a cake. You girls get at your work." It was my week to wash dishes. Jennie and Lucy were already making beds. Mary was sweeping the kitchen—not very well, because the broom was taller than she was. What made it worse was that Lalla was right in the middle of the sweepings with her little broom "helping" by sweeping busily in every direction. Before Mama could make a cake she found she had to go after eggs, because we'd eaten so many for breakfast. "I'll be gone just a minute," she whispered, and slipped out while Lalla had her back turned. Lalla was a nuisance in the chicken coop. "Mama?" said Lalla, missing her. '""'Mama's gone bye-bye," I said calmly, and she accepted it, went back to her sweeping. Mama wasn't back in a minute, as she thought she would be. When I wiped off the kitchen table I saw her feeding the chickens from the granary door, and knew she had argued it was easier to gather eggs while they were eating, but later she was cleaning out the chicken coop. Now she would want me to get the wheelbarrow and put the fertilizer on her flower bed. I'd get out of that job if I could! Sometimes we stopped working when Mama was not in the house, at least until we saw her coming back, but Etta had stirred us up with shame and we kept on. I made a little bet with myself that I would finish the dishes before Mama came back with the eggs, and [ won, even though washing dishes for twelve people, counting Papa, Johnny, and Tom, and the three hired men took just hours and hours. On top of that there was the cream separator and the milk buckets and the strainer, and all of them had to be scalded. A anie wanted me to finish because she didn't want to mop the kitchen floor until I quit spilling dishwater on it, and I didn't blame her. We were at that time using separated milk to mop the floors because Mama had read somewhere that it made them shine, and it did, but it made the mop sour, so I was glad when she gave up that idea. It was nearly noon when Mama got back to the house, and when she came it was only to get a rag, to be dipped in bluing to mark the thirteen eggs she had in her apron. "That old hen wants to set," she said by way of explanation, "and all I could find was enough eggs." Mama always used thirteen because if one spoiled she would have a dozen chicks. "What day is it today?" We got the calendar and figured out when the hen would come off in twenty-one days, but while Mama was fishing in the rag bag to find a scrap she could spare for the bluing, she ran onto something else. "Well, I never!" she said. "Here is that crepe de chine I lost last summer." A Day for Diddle-Daddling She pulled it out, somewhat worse for the wrinkling, but it was pretty for all that. "I meant to make me a waist out of it, but there was too much and I didn't want to spoil it."" She looked at its pink pile in her hands, then measured it off from her fingertips to her nose. "I do believe there's enough for your Fourth dress in this piece, Callie." I stood stock-still, afraid she would change her mind. "What's the matter, Callie? Don't you like it? It will be beautiful when it is_ pressed." "Mama, I love it," I breathed. "Well, all right, then. Here, Jennie. You mark these eggs and then you and Lucy go out and set the hen." "Mama, I'm scared. She'll peck at me. I never set a hen before." "Well, you can't learn any younger," said Mama. "Just pick her up by her back." She didn't even notice that Jennie had turned white as a sheet. I would have offered to show Jennie how, except that I was afraid I would break the spell and Mama would think of something else to use that material for. "Shall I get the catalogue?" I asked. "Yes, do," she said. "We'll pick out a pattern. I do hope we have some thread to match." We got the newspapers out and looked through the catalogue. The prettiest dress had puffed sleeves and a scalloped overskirt and a sash. "Oh, Mama! That's the dress I want. Can you make that one?" Mama considered it for just ages, I thought. "I think so," she finally said. "If we use some batiste for the top part of the under- 109 February 1969 skirt, that will leave enough material for the bottom ruffle." I did everything I could to help. While Mama was cutting out the newspaper pattern I built up the fire and put the flatirons on, set up the ironing board and got the machine out, and, by the time Mama had the pattern ready, the material was pressed and the scissors and thread were at her fingertips. Mama wouldn't cut paper with her good scissors. I heard Jennie and Lucy coming to the house crying, but I couldn't take a deep breath until Mama actually cut into the material. '""Mama, we're scared of the old hen," Jennie wept. "Goodness, child. What have you been doing all this time? You've been gone long enough for her to be ready to hatch." "Just looking at the old hen," Lucy wept. "She ruffled her feathers at us and scolded." Mama was rising to help them, but I interceded. "Ill help them, Mama." "All right," she said, and went back to her sewing. "Callie," she added, just as I was going out the door. "Get the wheelbarrow and put that fertilizer on my flower bed." I knew it! "Yes, Mama," I said. "Can I do it after lunch? I'll get lunch and get the baby to sleep." I didn't wait for an answer. Secretly I was afraid of the old hen, too, but didn't dare show Jennie and Lucy. I didn't just help them; I took a firm grip on the hen's back feathers, avoiding her beak, and lifted her off the nest. Jennie hurried up and put the eggs in and we got out of there. She was fussing around 110 setting on them, pecking each egg under her feathers as if they were already hatched into baby chicks. I liked her for it. "T can't wait for the baby chickens," said Lucy. "You'll have to watch Lalla that she doesn't love them to death." I hurried back to the house, and none too soon, for Mary was cross and Lalla was crying for her lunch. In another minute Mama would have stopped sewing to take care of them, so I did it. After lunch I sat on the little chair and sang Lalla to sleep. By all this managing on my part Mama was ready to try on the underskirt before I did the lunch dishes. "Did you forget the wheelbarrow?" Mamma asked. It was safe to leave her now, I thought, with Mary and Lalla asleep. Jennie and Lucy had been given permission to go play with the Jensen children, and I couldn't see a thing to interfere with Mama sewing. "T'll be just outside if you want me for trying on," I said. "T declare! I never saw anybody so helpful," answered Mama blandly. It took quite awhile for me to fertilize the garden. I had meant to protest how heavy the wheelbarrow was for a little girl eleven, but, under the circumstances, I said nothing. I have seen Mama start after chips of a morning and never get back in the house the livelong day. She would feed the chickens, gather the eggs, water the cows and toss them a little feed if the men were at the field, going from one to the other without any previous planning. At last I came in and washed my face and hands and changed my dress. "You're just in time for me to try on your dress," Mama said. It was all done but the finishing and pressing, and it was just beautiful. I stood on. The chair andadmired myself in it, visualizing how I would look with my hair in ringlets with a pink bow. "Come down now, Callie. Let's get it done before the men get home and the babies wake up," Mama said. "When a task is once begun never leave it till it's done." I had heard Grandma say that a million times, but I nearly fell over to hear Mama say it. Mama meant well, but she was easygoing. Once, when my girl friends and I went to the flowing wells below town, we played too long and were late A Day for Diddle-Daddling getting home. We had gone for watercress, because it was spring and we were hungry for something green and we had enough of our diet of ham and potatoes and gravy and bottled fruit. We hadn't thought of containers, and had our aprons full of wet, somewhat limp, and thoroughly bug-infested cress when we noticed the sun was going down and realized we had to walk over two miles to get home before dark. "My mother is surely going to be mad when I get home," one of them whimpered. "Papa will take a willow and tingle my legs," another one said. They kept this up until I began to feel the same fear, and by the time I got home I was in a panic. I never will forget coming in the back door, closing it behind me and almost sliding down it in a heap, wondering what awful fate would be mine, but all Mama said when she saw me was: "Laws, Honey. How you've grown since I saw you!" I think I never loved her more before or since than I did at that minute. "Watercress," she said, "My, that's nice," and she freshened it in water, carefully picked the bugs off it and we ate it with fresh baked bread and melted butter. I loved her now. She was just finishing my dress, tying the sash with it on a hanger against the wall on the coat rack when the gate clanged. It was Etta Jennings coming up the walk and she looked as if she had been through a calamity. Mama met | her at the door. "T bet I've walked ten miles trying to find a pattern," she said, and then she saw my dress. 111 February 1969 "Where in the world did you get that dress? It's just exactly what I wanted for my Eunice." I held my breath. It would be just like Mama to up and give it to her. Mama would give anything away, almost. She stood looking with pity at Etta's perspiring face. I just knew she was on the verge of giving her my dress for Eunice, but Etta said, "Ill give you ten dollars for that dress right this minute." Mama's look changed just a little bit. "T can't rightly do that," she said. ""That's Callie's dress, not mine to sell, but Ill tell you what. You bring Eunice and your material over and I'll cut out a dress for her." "Just like that one?" Etta asked, and I caught my breath again. The last thing in the world I wanted was for Eunice to have a Fourth dress just like mine. I was on the verge of urging Mama to sell it when she spoke again. "Prettier," she said, but how could you have a prettier dress than that? "Pink is not Eunice's color, not with that beautiful red hair. You need blue or green for her, to match her eyes." I looked at Mama. She hadn't mentioned Eunice's freckles nor the way her teeth stuck out. "The material, is blue," Etta said thoughtfully. "The clerk said the same as you, but I couldn't think of imposing on you, not with all you have to do. You must have worked all day to make that dress and get your Saturday cleaning done, too." All of us, even Etta, knew she would bring the material, and it didn't matter now. My Fourth dress was made and it was mine. "To tell you the truth," Mama said, "the girls did the cleaning. Callie took care of the babies and did everything else. I set out to make a cake and never got it done. All I did this whole day through was diddle-daddle." 112 ABRAHAM LINCOLN | wonder had | lived when Lincoln lived Would | have looked at him as men do now, Have heard his homespun jokes as classic wit, Or thought his furrowed face a noble brow? Would | have known the pathos and the pain Behind his chosen words at Gettysburg? Would | have been there at the Springville train To mourn him, to recall his parting word? The stories have worn well—about the rails He split, the borrowed book, the cent returned, The humble cabin birth, the circuit trails, His great compassion—all these we have learned. But would | recognize his greatness under The tall hat, beneath the sorrowing heart? | wonder. —Mabel Jones Gabbott Photo by Hedgecoth Photographers > February 1969 Florence Smith (left) and Alwilda Newbold (right), Vermont Ward, South Los Angeles Stake, enjoy working together to make aprons for Relief Society bazaars and for gifts. Sister Newbold is a professional tailor and her creative talents find a wide scope in her aprons. Each year she makes from seventy-five to a hundred aprons of all styles. She is also an expert at knitting, crocheting, and embroidery work. She feels that one needs a variety for gifts and bazaars, and it also keeps her busy and happy. Sister Smith has assisted Sister Newbold for many years in apron-making. She is especially skilled in the fancy stitches and decorative work that make the aprons artistic. Making aprons together has given these sisters a deep and rewarding friendship, enhanced by their joy in presenting their work as gifts and bazaar items. Martha Callahan Durfee, Weiser Stake, Idaho, makes unusual and lovely quilts to be presented to her six children, thirty-nine grandchildren, and sixteen great grandchildren, and presents many for use by Relief Society for bazaars, as well as to her many friends and neighbors. She has made quilts out of men's neckties, which suit the male recipients to a tee. Sister Durfee is eighty years old, and has served as a visiting teacher for fortyeight years. Her cheerful smile is always welcome at Relief Society meetings. 114 February 1969 ward for their bazaar, and mothers were most fortunate who were able to purchase one of those beautiful items. Not long ago another wonderful idea came to Sister Lach, rejuvenating old dolls and stuffed toys! Sister Lach buys old stuffed toys and dolls for almost nothing at the Deseret Industries. She takes a seam undone on the animals, removes the stuffing and then washes the outside covering. Then she carefully replaces the stuffing and sews the animal together. Oftentimes an ear or an eye is missing and she carefully replaces it. The animals are just like new when Sister Lach finishes working on them—an unbelievable sight when seeing the objects "before" and "after." Many times a doll may have an arm or a leg missing. She finds other old dolls which have a matching leg or arm and replaces the missing one. She cuts, shampoos, and styles the hair of the dolls so they look beautiful. The doll is scrubbed from top to bottom and any other repairs that are needed are done. Then Sister Lach, with her ingenuity and great talent in sewing, dresses these dolls. They resemble a "Paris" creation when she is finished. They are beautiful to behold. The clothes are so lovely that they are just as attractive as those on a newly purchased doll. 116 Made-Over Dolls 117 February 1969 For stuffed animals: Step. 1. Remove all felt trims, such as eyes and tongues. Save for use as a pattern. Step 2. Open a seam large enough to insert your hand, and remove the stuffing, saving it for use later. (Toys which are labeled "completely washable" or stuffed with shredded foam, may be put in the washing 'machine and the filling need not be removed.) Wash the entire outer form in good hot soapsuds. Rinse in clear water. Shake well, and hang out to dry in a warm place and fluff out the material occasionally while drying. Step 3. Pack all the stuffing back in the toy, starting with the legs and head. Then pack the body well, supplementing the stuffing with upholster's cotton, as needed, until the toy is firm. Step 4. Sew up the opened seam and brush the fur. Cut new tongue and eye pieces from felt and glue them in place with fabric glue. Many hours of labor go into such a project, but it is indeed a labor of love, a love and desire to do something for others, a desire to bring happiness and beauty into the lives of little children. This Sister Lach does by giving these animals and dolls to children. WAITING I'm sitting in my big arm chair Passing the time away, Nothing seems to change It's the same from day to day. I'm sitting quietly by Counting the hours till night, There's nothing | can do But wait for the waning light. My strength is almost gone | can hardly leave my chair, Will | rise tomorrow To wait by the window there? It's beautiful outside, dear, But leaves ride on the wind. The ground is thick with gold now And the branches thinned. — Carmen Daines Fredrickson 118 "~~ ee Grandmother ( Mada W. Stanger } and the Stockings onal me @ I remember Grandmother's visits! How we looked forward to her coming! These visits were not too frequent, and only once in awhile did she stay all day or overnight. Grandma is just a little woman, but her love and sweet personality are just the reverse of her size. We loved to see her come, because of her love and kindness. No grandmother could have shown more love for grandchildren than she showed us. Now the vears have rolled along, and Grandmother is getting older. Her little body is getting frail, and she is not as active as she used to be. But as long as I live I shall remember Grandma and the stockings. There were eight growing, active, healthy children in our familv. We lived on a farm, and there was always plenty to be done. All the girls were taught the art of homemaking at an early age by our sweet mother, as we cooked for hay men, put up fruit. Sometimes, it was necessary for the girls to help Father and the boys with the farm work. Mother worked so hard to do her many household tasks, but like many others, night came before her work was done. One task that we all seemed to save until we had more time was darning the stockings. Mother would put them in a little wire basket that folded flat when empty. Each washday the basket and the stack of stockings for ten people would grow and grow. We all learned how to darn stockings, but all too often when we sat to darn, we could make only a small dent in the stockings before we left the job unfinished. And so the basket bulged. Then Grandmother would come to visit! After rearing a large family herself, she knew of the many things a mother often leaves undone and always offered to help. Somehow or other, she would always find her way to the stocking basket. Her loving hands would darn and darn while she visited with Mother, until the basket would fold flat, and our own individual stocking bags were filled with neatly darned stockings. And we appreciated her helpful talent. I must honestly admit that when I knew Grandma would be there, I secretly hoped if she had the time, she would help us conquer the stockings. Now, as I hurriedly darn my family's few stockings that need darning these days, I lovingly remember, with a smile, the days Grandmother came to visit, and the basket full of stockings waiting to be done! SS ON A STORMY NIGHT Save me a summer, | cried, In the storm's midnight, In the mountain's domain, And keep me a dream intact From the scolding thunder, From the lightning's obliteration. Keep for me beyond the dark zenith Always a dawn in reply. —Dorothy J. Roberts 119 Carol Berrey @ Here are some delicious recipes that are favorites with the members in the Rome Branch. I am sure they will please those who like, or would like, to try authentic Italian food. The first recipe I obtained from a charming restaurant in a small village outside of Rome. BISTECCA ALLA PIZZIOLA (Steak cooked in a delicious tomato sauce) 4 thin steaks 4 green olives (pitted) 4 slices of American cheese oregano or substitute oil, as desired Brown steaks in an oiled frying pan. Cover each steak with a slice of cheese and decorate with slices of olive. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and oregano. Cook on low heat until the meat is done and the cheese melts. For an elegant dinner, roll the meat and cheese, with the olives and seasoning inside. Secure the rolls with toothpicks. Place in the pan with a little oil and one can of tomatoes (about 6 oz.) cut into small pieces. Add salt, pepper, onion, and a little garlic. Cook until the meat is done and the sauce is thickened. RISO AL LATTE (Rice cooked in milk) 2 c. Rice 2 tbsp. Butter (more or less, as desired) 1 quart milk, approximately salt 2 tbsp. Sugar Cook the rice for 8-10 minutes; remove from the stove, and rinse. Add about 7%; of the milk. Cook, adding milk as is needed, until the rice is done. Add the sugar, butter, and salt. Serve piping hot. 120 Recipes From Italy LASAGNA AL FORNO (Baked lasagna) Meat Sauce 4 tbsp. Olive oil parsley, as desired 1 lb. Ground beef basil, as desired 3 tbsp. Each, chopped carrot, 1 can tomatoes (1 lb) celery, and onion Put olive oil, beef, vegetables, and spices into a frying pan and cook until the onion is golden. Add the tomatoes (cut into small pieces) with all the juice in the can. Add salt and pepper to taste. Boil slowly for 2 hours. White Sauce 1 qt. Milk 2 tbsp. Flour ¥, c. Butter or other shortening. 1 tsp. Salt Heat the milk. Add butter, flour, and salt. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Lasagna Noodles 2 gallons of water 1 package lasagna noodles 1 tsp. Salt. (16 02.) In a large pan, bring the water to a boil. Add salt. When the water boils again, add the lasagna, a piece at a time. Cook for about 20 minutes. Then drain the lasagna and spread them on a white cloth. In a large rectangular pan, put a layer of the tomato and beef mixture, then a layer of lasagna, and cover with three tablespoons of white sauce. Sprinkle with a little cheese. Continue this layering until the pan is filled, finishing with the white sauce. Put into a hot oven (400°) and cook until the top forms a golden crust. Serves four. Tonight the rounding moon Reached its zenith and cast a glow Of almost noon Upon the mounded silent snow. Diamonds, pearls, and amethyst Spread a calm quiescent braise On pyracantha's tented head Where cedar waxwings kept their tryst Just yesterday. A soft gray haze Shaded the lowly violet bed Where | knelt in gathering gloom For flowers which now perfume this room. Tomorrow or tomorrow this full moon Will wane; waxwings return again To beautify each bush, and soon More violets will bloom where snow has lain. —Zara Sabin ra A New Oilcloth Mabel Luke Anderson é 4 Re f — J @ The canning was done, and the cellar shelves filled with colorful jars of fruits, vegetables, and pickles; the last spicy smell of catsup and chili sauce was only faintly lingering. After the canning chores were over, there always came the special bonus when mother would say, "I think we can get a new oilcloth for the kitchen table today." [ am sure we would not have been more happy had she said, "We will get a new dinette set today." The old drop-leaf table that had served two or three generations would do, and would be renewed in the splendor of a new oilcloth. Sometimes Mother gave me the silver half dollar. And mine was the envied privilege of going to the store and, from the array offered. Pick out a gay check, colorful plaid, or a floral or fruit design. It was a hard choice, but when I came home bearing the long slim parcel, careful that it not be bent. I indeed felt it was a red-letter day. The old cover was taken off to be put on the shelves on the back porch, and my purchase was laid with ceremony on the table among admiring exclamations and compliments of the fine choice I had made. There it was in all its beauty—what mattered it if it in. No way "matched" the other colors in the room? It was so gay, so light-hearted and smelled so clean that it brightened the entire room and gave a lift to our lives. We had a little ritual for that first meal, while the oilcloth was so grand and new. We did not cover its elegance with any other tablecloth but set the dishes right on the pretty cover. The humble fare that was put on it tasted fine and I know a king couldn't have enjoyed his supper more. The slick new surface, also, made a smooth, clean, and cheerful background for our school studies. That shining oilcloth on the kitchen table meant we were ready for winter, no matter what it would bring; that the hard work of canning was over; the pig killed and put away; that there were barrels of meat, bins of vegetables and apples, sacks of flour safely hanging on racks from the cellar beams. Cans of sugar, molasses, and honey gave one a secure feeling of being prepared against the snows of winter. Twice a year we enjoyed the ceremony of a new oilcloth. In the spring, at housecleaning time, getting a new oilcloth for the kitchen table was a signal 122 A New Oilcloth that the housecleaning was done. The last rug had been beaten, the last feather bed aired, the last window washed. | think it came to mean a svmbol of accomplishment, of a goal reached, a job well done, whether spring housecleaning or fall canning. And even now as I look back. That new oilcloth is a svmbol of many good things in a way of life that has gone forever. Life was lived at a simpler level: a symbol for homes in which work. Fun, and love were shared. A svmbol for appreciation of little things, when there was less urgency to earn extra dollars. A svmbol of a life where nothing was bought until one had the money to pay for it—credit was practically an unknown word in its present meaning. Saved cash bought necessities first, luxuries when there was enough left over to pay for them. The tempo of life was slower; it was also without its tensions. It was a symbol of a home where Mother was always present. The oilcloth was a svmbol of a frugal life. Yes, as I look back, that new oilcloth epitomizes a nostalgic past, a svmbol of a vesterday of values of integrity and wholesomeness. Each of us has his own private symbol of the good things of those vesterdavs as a standard of comparison as we make our choices today and tomorrow. INDIAN WEAVER The desert, Gray as a bleached dead tree, Brown as an autumn leaf, Yellow in spots like gold, Stretched around her, As, sitting on the sand, She weaves the woof of red and gold and blue - Across the warp of dusty white. Is it a blanket? Yes, but that is not all. A smile is on her lips As, with deft fingers, She weaves some cherished dream. —Enola Chamberlin Young Friend Ida A. Isaacson @ | met a young friend of mine at leadership meeting. She brought her bievcle to a full stop as we met. She is the mother of five lovely children. She had a basket on the front of her bicvcle, and it held her Relief Society Magazine, and her Out of the Best Books, Volume Four, a notebook, and her purse. It was gratifying to see her, and I was happily surprised at her mode of travel. It indicated vouthfulness, economy, and a method of traveling that was faster than walking those blocks. And it denoted good judgment. After the meeting was over, I am sure that she mounted her bicycle and arrived home a little earlier to greet her children and to make plans for dinner and attend to the multiple things that a young mother and wife must do. I admired her. 123 Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is Margery S. Cannon @ "Who are you?" asked the caterpillar of Alice in Wonderland. "J T hardly know, sir, just at present " Alice answered. Since her abrupt entry into the caterpillar's incredible land, she had been facing new situations so rapidly that it was no wonder she was bewildered. Similarly, our own world is a wonderland to every newborn child—big, strange, unfamiliar, and untried. "Who am 1?" he well might ask, and in that moment of newness he begins to form an image of himself. His first interpreters are his parents. They help him to discover who he is, what he can and cannot do, how he fits into the wonderland around him. They help him to determine his feelings about himself. What they think of him, he will think of himself; what he thinks of himself, he may become. A talented woman confides that, as a child, her parents frequently encouraged her interests with the comment, "You can do it. You can do almost anything." She claims this as the spark that kindled her courage and kept her trying. If the words and actions of his parents tell a child that he belongs, that he can achieve, that he is accepted and loved, his self-image will be positive. And a healthy self-image is so important that it should be a constant concern of his parents. Schoolteachers have devised regular "show and tell" periods to help children develop positive feelings about themselves. Each child has a moment in the spotlight to show and tell something to his class. The "ohs" and "ahs" when a child shows one of his creations, the spontaneous spurt of laughter when he tells a funny story, the interested comments of the teacher, all help a child to define himself as a worthwhile individual. This same "show and tell" principle can be used by parents to build positive feelings in their children. One of the most effective methods of achieving this is through the use of a record book. This record book (or scrapbook) belongs to the child and provides a place for his photographs and certificates. A spot where his wise and comical quotes may be recorded, along with parental comments about the child—always complimentary, of course. The book becomes a "show and tell" about the child. Size is not important, but it should be sturdy enough to withstand the inevitable use it will be subjected to as probably the child's most cherished possession. "Do you want to see my very own book that tells about me?" will be a constant query when grandmother or a playmate comes to visit. Or he will crawl onto his mother's lap and beg her to read "my book." As they go over the pages, one by one, they show and tell him who he is. He "remembers" that he was born in the hospital and weighed seven pounds. He lingers for the umpteenth time over a letter from Aunt Lucy expressing happiness that he arrived. His baby picture with the crinkly eyes brings a chuckle that carries over to the family tree where his very own name is written. His finger traces each letter and travels up the trunk to the pictures on the branches. Such a cluster of loved ones brings a warm blankety feeling of belonging. Several pages and pictures later he realizes that he is growing bigger and learning new things. A "stick people" drawing. Tissue paper roses. A picture of himself on roller skates. He pauses at each new proof of accomplishment and a smile carves into his cheeks. 124 " Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is Most loved, perhaps are the words of praise and recognition scattered among the pages. "Jane was considerate and helpful. She often sat on her little red chair by the baby's crib so she could sing to him and keep him company." Or, "Our neighbor, Mrs. James, loved to have Jimmy visit. She said he was the only boy in the neighborhood who paid any attention to her retarded son." Under the picture of a smiling toddler is this delightful reminder, "Susie made our home a happier place." Comments such as these tell a child that he is appreciated and loved and spark loving responses in return. And, somehow, they seem a bit more impressive when they're written down in a book. To parents with large families, keeping up the books may loom as quite an undertaking. No doubt about it. But it is also extremely rewarding. Working on a child's book can be a shared experience, a precious togetherness time, something to do on a Sunday. In between the catching-up occasions his memorabilia may be collected in a large manila envelope. A child's comments may be recorded immediately in the book or on a piece of note paper and added to the envelope until the next rainy day. Or a small notebook with a section for each child will hold individual information until it can be recorded in the books. Full dates should be included with each addition. Every child would choose to have a book about himself. All the little patchwork pieces of his life, lovingly pasted together, give him a feeling of identity, a sense of belonging and achievement. A reminder that he's loved, a reverence for himself. CHILDREN ON A DESERTED BEACH Sand is hard and wet To your toes Where each wave flows Up and back, day-long, And swings In tune with a song The ocean sings. Miles of sea glint with sun Along miles of weed— Strewn beach, but we can run Easily as the little birds With stilt legs, that Run and feed As waves recede. Now birds are gone. There is nothing More— Only sun sliding down the sky Into the far edge of the sea And us running endlessly Along the endless shore. —Ethel Jacobson 125 Welcome The Task Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, a young woman of twenty-four is spending the summer in Houston, Texas, with her mother's cousin, Bea McPherson. Jennifer has left behind Steve Rey, whom she is attracted to, but the relationship is unsure. In Houston, she meets handsome Jim Long, who has been wooing her. The bishop of Bea's ward is the director of the famous Texas Medical Center, and has indicated that it might be possible for Jennifer's mother to have heart surgery to relieve the serious heart condition from which she is suffering. @ One night early in September, Jennifer ventured to ask Bea what her feelings about Dick were. "What do you mean?" Bea asked guardedly. "Surely you are aware that there is an attraction existing between you two, it shows on both of you." "Why, Jenny, are you trying to play matchmaker?" Bea asked lightly. "No, I don't think anyone needs to. I was just wondering if you were aware of what seems to be happening." 126 y Chapter 4 Bea was silent for a few minutes. "Well, Jenny, one never knows. We both have a lot of forgetting to do. It's hard for me to accept the way Dick was so bitter about the deaths of his wife and son. I loved John just as deeply as any woman ever loved, I'm sure. He was the light of my life. But that light went out, and I have to make the best life I can for myself and our boys. His memory is a comfort to me, but one can't live with and for a memory. I remember him with love, and I'm not bitter that he's gone, just sad. And I know we'll be together again, that's the greatest comfort. Jennifer understood this. ''Perhaps Dick needed being around someone like you to be able to see this himself," she suggested. "Perhaps, I don't know. Ten years is a long time to carry a bitterness in your heart. It can't completely disappear overnight. And then, I'm just not ready for anything yet. In two weeks it will have been a year. I'm not mourning, but I'm still adjusting. First Christmases, anniversaries, birthdays, special days of all kinds aren't easy. There are so many firsts." she trailed off lamely. "T think I understand, Bea," Jennifer said quietly. The day following their conversation, Bishop Hopper phoned and asked Jennifer if she could come to his office and meet Dr. Mayhew. She was immensely impressed with the famous surgeon, and extremely pleased to learn that he was willing to examine Mrs. Miles, with the possibility of performing surgery as soon as possible. Jennifer wanted to call her parents and tell them, but decided that a detailed explanatory letter would be best. She explained everything, from meeting Bishop Hopper to her impression of Dr. Mayhew. She urged them to consult the doctor who was currently treating her mother, but most of all to pray about it, though she knew that would be their first act. It would be no easy decision. Surgery of any kind was frightening, and risky. There was no guarantee that her condition would be improved, or indeed, if she would survive the operation. Bea immediately began to make plans to have Charles and Elizabeth as her guests for as long as they would need to remain in Houston. Her friendship became increasingly more preclous to Jennifer. Each ring of the phone sent a fearful, excited chill down Jennifer's back. Finally, one evening she recognized her father's voice. Welcome the Task "Jenny, he said _ huskily, '"We've decided to take the chance. Your mother is _ losing ground now, so we'll make a fight for it." Tears came to Jennifer's eyes. Her dear, sweet mother must face a choice that was really no choice at all. Her mother came on the line and expressed her love for Jennifer and her faith that this was indeed the right decision; that she felt Jennifer was guided to Houston for a reason, and perhaps this was it. Jennifer would not attend school this semester, but would remain in Houston until her mother was able to return home. She and Bea met the plane. It was a joyous reunion. She hadn't realized how much she had really missed them until she watched them come down the ramp. Her tiny mother, with her brown eyes and auburn red hair shining, was smiling and leaning on her husband's arm. Charles was a big man, and looked even bigger next to his petite wife. Jennifer noticed that her father looked more serious than usual. His eyes were full of love, but his strong jaw was set, and he kept a protective arm about his wife. Her mother's optimistic personality always had a way of disguising the real issues, if they were unpleasant. She assured them that they had had a marvelous flight, and she was so grateful to Bea for taking care of her daughter, and for extending her hospitality to Elizabeth and her husband. "We've asked Nyta Rey to stay at the house with the boys," 127 February 1969 her mother commented. "She's been such a dear friend to me, and I'm sure she'll be able to help the boys through all of this." "Yes," Charles added, "and that boy of hers—Steve—sends his love." Jennifer blushed. Her mother had begun to suspect before Jennifer left home that Steve had much to do with her daughter's moods. Well, no mind, for he was a fine boy, and if her daughter chose him it would be a happy day for both families. "Pete has taken quite a liking to Steve," her father commented, referring to his impetuous middle son. "We all have, as a matter of faet."' Jennifer ignored the pointed remark. "I'm looking forward to coming home as soon as Mother can,' she announced quietly. "And, of course, you must meet Jim." Her mother patted her cheek as she always did in an expression of affection. ""We had hoped you would want us to, Jenny." Her heart sang. She would be going home. Home to Springville and the beautiful, rugged Wasatch Mountains which looked over the valley like a protecting father. Home to the lake, their street, the large brick home, and the huge lilac bush in the front yard, the big walnut tree in the back yard that had afforded her both shade and a back rest as she pursued the world through books during her youth. She hadn't realized how much _ she _ had missed all this until just that moment. She was looking forward to seeing Steve, yet she knew she would miss the attentions of Jim Long. 128 But, more importantly, she was going home to Dave, Pete, and Sam. Home to their teasing, their balking at being reminded of chores needing attention, but also back to their awkward attempts to show affection, their shyness at talking over a particular problem, their triumphant happiness when their teams won, and their quiet attempts to take losing like the men their father was molding them to be. How much would they have changed now? But she would be with her mother and father again, to discuss, to help, and to learn. Oh, Mother, she thought, you have to make it, for all of us. They had anticipated a rather long wait at Dr. Mayhew's office, knowing how busy the famous surgeon must be. However, Mrs. Miles was led directly into the examination room by the friendly, smiling nurse. For Jennifer, Charles, and Bea, the wait seemed endless. "T'm sure he is giving her a very thorough examination," Bea reassured them, as she caught them both glancing at their watches periodically. "The time certainly drags," Jennifer complained. She picked up a magazine and began thumbing through it, but her mind was in the examination room with her mother. Suppose the surgeon felt that the surgery was just too great a risk. Must they face the fact that she would die slowly before their eyes? She forced the thought from her mind. The family had left the matter in the hands of their Father in heaven. Finally, the nurse returned and asked them if they would please come into the doctor's con- ference room. Bea hesitated and Charles said, "Please, come along." They seated themselves comfortably, eagerly anticipating, yet dreading the appearance of the doctor. The nurse brought Mrs. Miles in first, and she sat down between Charles and Jennifer. Her eyes were bright and she smiled reassuringly. Finally Dr. Mayhew, accompanied by Bishop Hopper, came in. Jennifer was once again impressed by the bearing of the surgeon. He was_ considerably younger than she had expected him to be, only about forty-five. She thought that Jim Long would be this kind of person, famous and successful at a relatively young age. The doctor's dark hair was graying slightly at the temples, and he had an air of calm, poised self-assurance. He was tall, and would, by most standards, be considered distinguished, even handsome. When he spoke, his voice held a kind of quiet authority, coupled with a "you can have absolute faith in me," tone. He was friendly, but came right to the point. "Much of what I am going to tell you, you probably already know. The patient's heart has been severely damaged by rheumatic fever during childhood. There is a great deal of scar tissue, but the most pressing problem is a badly damaged mitro valve. Now what we plan to do is remove this valve and replace it with an artificial one. It is a delicate operation, generally successful though." Welcome the Task Before they could relax too much, he went on. "However, the patient's liver and lungs are in extremely poor condition, which, of course, increases the risk a great deal. We want to put her directly into the hospital if she decides to have the surgery, and run more extensive tests. As things look right now, her chances are about forty-sixty." They looked at one another without speaking. Jennifer's heart pounded. Forty-sixty sounded frightening. She had_ thought that fifty-fifty would be bad enough. Finally the surgeon spoke again. "I am willing to perform the surgery, and [ think it will be successful, but it's a decision that only you folks can make." Bishop Hopper said, "We can give you three days, in which to make the decision. We know how difficult it is. But within three days you would have to enter the hospital for tests, or we couldn't meet the surgery time we have open." Mrs. Miles spoke up quietly. "No, we will not need the three days. We knew there was a risk when we came. We had already decided that if Dr. Mayhew was willing to perform the surgery, I was willing to risk it. Now, when do I enter the hospital?" Her voice held that no nonsense authority that she was forced to use on her sons so often. Bishop Hopper smiled confidently. "We'll have you come in first thing in the morning." He patted her shoulder, and everyone shook hands. Dr. Mayhew informed them that she would undergo surgery a week from the day she entered the hospital. 129 February 1969, The day before the operation, all of Bea's family and the entire Miles family in Utah, as well as Jennifer and her father fasted. Jim accompanied Mr. Miles and Bishop Hopper to the hospital where they administered to Elizabeth. A bouquet of flowers bearing Steve's name along with that of his mother, and Jennifer's three brothers, had arrived earlier. "I'm so_ blessed," Mrs. _Miles smiled warmly at them., te As he was leaving, Jim bent down and whispered something in her ear. Jennifer curiously asked her mother what it was, later, when they were alone. "Oh, he was just reminding me what a wonderful daughter I have," she said tenderly. "He seems like a nice young man Jenny. Do you care for him deeply?" Jennifer smiled. Jim Long was quite a person, and she told her mother that she was flattered by his attentions, but no' more at. The time. "Jenny," her mother said seri- 130 ously, "if by chance the Lord wills I don't come through this, promise me you will look out for your father and the boys." Jennifer shuddered inwardly. "T promise, Mother, but you're going to be all right," she said with a great deal more confidence than she dared feel. "T hope so, Jenny, I really hope so." The day dawned dark and cold. It was late November and winter had a grim grip on_ things. Charles, Jennifer, and Bea arrived at the hospital early, so that they might see Mrs. Miles before she was placed under sedation. They were permitted to remain with her until she was rolled down the corridor into the operating room. Jennifer could barely control her shaking hands as she sat down to begin the long wait. Dr. Mayhew had estimated that the surgery would require about three hours. The waiting room was a cheerful, light, and comfortable place, but they were oblivious of these things. Jennifer fought the panic rising within her at the thought of her mother, in the operating room, fighting for her life against this condition which had plagued her for so long. Her heart seemed to be racing three times faster than was necessary to sustain her. She felt both hot and cold at the same time, as if icy blood was being pumped through a feverish body. It seemed as though she could hardly breathe. Each glance at the clock told her that only five minutes had -passed. She tried to look around at the other people waiting. Bea seemed lost in thought. She must be remembering sitting in a room such as this while surgeons fought to save John's life, Jennifer thought. Her father looked older, tired. Jennifer had realized several years ago just how much he depended on his wife. Outwardly he was a strong, confident, vibrant man, but his wife was the key to all that was strong about him. She thought about her three brothers. They were good boys, but they needed their mother's guidance and advice, for all three of them loved and respected her almost reverently. Jennifer looked around the room, feeling empathy for those who were awaiting news of a loved one. She felt sorry for the young couple who looked so forlorn, probably their young child was in surgery, she thought. Delicate in scent, bh | wish | were a flower in your garden, Or a Mozart Symphony, inspiring, Never spent, Desert sand, In your hand. You may go, | love you so. TO BE NEAR YOU Or just your footprint in the sun-warmed Your shadow on the cool of earth, a raindrop To add a breath of beauty wherever To be near you fondly close, because —Rowena Jensen Bills /, Welcome the Task Their apprehension increased when the clock moved from three and a half hours to four from the time Mrs. Miles had gone into the operating room. A grim faced doctor approached, and gently touched a middle-aged man on the shoulder. "I'm sorry, Mr. Warren, we did all we could." The silent room was filled with the man's sobs. Jennifer's heart went out to him. How hard it is to lose a loved one, but what a comfort the gospel could be at such a time. She had fidgeted and paced the floor for more than five hours when the door down the hall opened again. She recognized Dr. Mayhew's tall frame coming toward them. She tried vainly to read his expression. (To be continued) 131 ese FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Zi Relief Society Activities Korean Mission Conference Creates Central and Southern Districts, August 26, 1968 Top picture, front row, center (in black dress): Soon Sung Kim, President, Southern District Relief Society; to her right: Boo Yun Kim, First Counselor. Second row, second from left: Sun Pyo Pak, Second Counselor; (in plaid dress): Rosemarie Slover, Supervisor, Korean Mission Relief Society. The second picture includes many of the same sisters during a testimony meeting at the conference in Pusan. Sister Slover reports: ''At our general district conference, the mission was divided into the Central and Southern Districts. All sisters of the new Southern District were invited to attend one of the meetings, and the spirit present was truly wonderful. 'Most of the sisters are new in positions of leadership, but they have a strong desire to serve and a testimony of the importance of the work they will be doing."' 4 Ben Lomond Stake (Utah), North Ogden Third Ward Relief Society Makes Satin Pillowcases Virtue O. Spackman and Blanche H. Ellis working on satin pillowcases for North Ogden Third Ward Relief Society. Margaret C. Jones, President, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Orders could not be filled fast enough for the lovely satin pillowcases which were Relief Society's contribution to the building fund in the North Ogden Third Ward of our stake. Over $250 has been added to the building fund, plus $100 to the Relief Society treasury through this project. ''The pillowcases are not only beautiful, the members of the ward report that they contribute to soft, restful sleep, and protect the ladies' hairdos." 132 Fort Worth Stake (Texas) Singing Mothers Join Large Group for ''Hemisfair Performance"' August 9-10, 1968 Lucille W. Molen, President, Fort Worth Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Thirtythree sisters from the Fort Worth Stake joined the large combined group of Singing Mothers who performed at the 'Hemisfair' in San Antonio, Texas, in August. The sisters began rehearsing in April for this event. Margaret Porter directed the group, and they were accompanied by Joan Wooley. Director of the combined groups was Montess A. Anderegg. The sisters expressed appreciation for this opportunity and felt that it was a worthwhile and inspirational activity. 'Our stake was organized last September and we are working very diligently to get the Magazine in each home. We love it dearly."' Western States Mission Relief Society Presidency Holds Conference Left to right: Mildred Rose, Education Counselor, Western States Mission Relief Society; Edith Hall, Homemaking Counselor; Carrell Thorpe, President; Arline M. Scott, Supervisor; Janet Luke, Secretary. Sister Scott reports: ''Each year the presidency of the Western States Mission Relief Society visits each of the five districts in the mission and holds a conference on Saturday and Sunday. This year, as in previous years, instructions concerning Relief Society procedures were discussed. District fashion shows were held, and many items which could be used for bazaars were demonstrated. '"'A Singing Mothers chorus from each district sang at the conferences, and reviews of the past year's work were given by the officers of the district boards. ''We feel that these conferences benefit Relief Society in the mission very much, and we enjoyed them also." Italian Mission Holds First Relief Society Conferences May 11, 18, June 8, 1968 Members of the Italian Mission Relief Society Presidency, left to right: Chiara Banchetti, First Counselor; Wanda Duns, Supervisor; Marilee Swift, President; Joanne Gerstner, Second Counselor. Sister Duns reports: ''Four Relief Society conferences were held in the Italian Mission to insure that all sisters of Relief Society would be able to attend at least one session. The sessions were held in Palmero, Sicily; Milan; Pisa; and Taranto. ''President Duns and | were able to attend three of these meetings and address the sisters. Approximately twenty sisters attended each meeting. "At each conference there was a discussion period, a luncheon prepared by the mission Relief Society presidency, addresses by the presidency, a demonstration of homemaking meeting ideas, and a bazaar featuring the lovely handwork of the Italian sisters."' North Sevier Stake (Utah) Board Contributes To ' Success of the Relief Society Program North Sevier Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Aldena A. Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer; Arnelda M. Poulson, Second Counselor; Bernice M. Mickelsen, First Counselor; Wilma H. Sorensen, President. Standing, left to right: Ora C. Mason, visiting teacher message leader; Thula Nielsen, homemaking leader; Leona J. Mickelsen, spiritual living class leader; LaVerde S. Gurney, Magazine representative; Melva N. Johnson, social relations class leader; Joyce Gronning, cultural refinement class leader; LaJuana Bastian, organist; Billie Lou Johnson, chorister. Sister Sorensen reports: ''These sisters have been faithful in furthering the success of Relief Society in our stake. They serve devotedly and attend the required meetings regularly. We have a lovely board room which was decorated and furnished by contributions and stake board funds. It also serves as a garment distribution center, managed by the president and assisted by other willing Relief Society workers."' South Box Elder Stake Honors All Who Have Served on the Stake Board, August 14, 1968 Front row, third from left: Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society; fourth: Helen Bunnell, former president. The remaining sisters are current and past members of the stake board. Sister Nebeker reports: ''A dinner honoring all those who had served on the Relief Society stake board since 1963 when the stake was organized, was held. The occasion was to reveal a history book compiled recently. 'Included in the history book were pictures and write-ups of socials, special accomplishments, programs from conferences, and other events, and statistical data. "We felt that getting together to see the history book would be a pleasant interlude for the sisters. One of the highlights of the book is a personal history sketch of each sister who served on the stake board. It was a most pleasant and successful evening." New York Stake, West Point Branch Relief Society Unique in Locale and Activities Members of the West Point Branch Relief Society, left to right: Lola Turek; Mary Blackham; Lois Hobson, Second Counselor; Myrna Redd; Polly Jordan, First Counselor; Joyce Mumford, President; Penny Lockard; Kaye Palmer; Elaine Bons. Ada H. Miller, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The West Point Branch Relief Society, though newly organized and consisting of only nine members, is productive and active. On May 10, 1968, they held a spring social consisting of a cruise down the Hudson River. "Their unique location affords them interesting fund-raising possibilities. The corsages worn by the sisters are colorful chrysanthemums which are in great demand during the football season when the Army team meets its opponents. The wall hangings are actual miniature reproductions of the uniforms worn by cadets at the United States Military Academy. ''We are inspired by the devoted manner in which these sisters carry out the functions of Relief Society." ue AC SPUREEt A!: < FR =e ar aN RET ERENT rca RTIOT MALIN" VAY? OT We er es AC oo Alabama Stake ''Fashions For All Seasons'' Show August 24, 1968 Left to right: Kathleen Nelson; Linda Mattle; Sue Drake; Delores Hazzard. Donalee A. Beazer, President, Alabama Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The theme of our annual fashion show was 'Fashions for All Seasons.' The four sisters in the picture are our fashion coordinators, one commenting for each season. They are wearing dresses from the same pattern, styled to their particular season. "There were 124 outfits modeled by seventy-nine participants, including husbands and children. We feel that our fashion shows are great incentives to encourage the women and girls in the stake to develop sewing skills. We are very proud of the fine workmanship in the clothes demonstrated in these shows." Juab Stake (Utah) Relief Society Marks Centennial With Unique Program, June 22, 1968 Left to right, sisters who have served as presidents of Juab Stake Relief Society: Martha C. Eagar; Lyle C. Pratt; Lua L. Stephenson; Chole N. Bailey; Edna J. Cazier; Blanche B. Brough, current President. Sister Brough reports: ''Our stake observed its centennial anniversary with a unique program. The program included a dramatization of several important historical events in the stake. The script was written by Sadie H. Greenhalgh and was taken from actual minutes and testimonies. "The Singing Mothers sang several appropriate numbers during the program. An original banner made by Relief Society sisters in 1868 was on display. Colorful display tables with pictures, relics, and histories covering the 100 years were a popular and much appreciated attraction. "A delicious buffet luncheon was served and it was a time of rejoicing and reflecting back to the marvelous work of the sisters who came before us. We shall go forth with renewed zest to carry forth our part of the heritage. "There were five of the past fifteen presidents who have served since 1868 present at the celebration. We were also honored to have Sister Fanny S. Kienitz of the Relief Society General Board present at our celebration."' Bn AS aD Roy North Stake (Utah) Presents ''A Call To Benevolence'"' To Honor First Anniversary of Stake Relief Society July 11, 1968 Front row, fourth and fifth from left: Mabel G. Peterson, President, Roy North Stake Relief Society; Arlene Cheever, First Counselor. Third row, at left: Nina Chappell, Secretary-Treasurer. The remaining sisters are members of the stake board and ward presidencies and secretaries. Sister Peterson reports: ''Commemorating the first anniversary of the Roy North Stake Relief Society, and in appreciation of the wonderful work accomplished by the wards during the year, the Relief Society presidency entertained members of the stake board and the ward presidencies and secretaries at a luncheon. Following the luncheon, members of the stake board presented 'A Call to Benevolence.' " SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 96—Doctrinal Instructions Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 130:8-23; 131:5-8.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman devotes herself to gaining more knowledge through diligence and obedience. INTRODUCTION The Prophet Joseph Smith made observations upon the public and private remarks of member and nonmember. One time Orson Hyde gave his views on various gospel subjects which called forth corrections by the Prophet. At another time the Prophet corrected some statements made by a Methodist preacher. These corrections have provided the Church with some important doctrinal instructions contained in Sections 130 and 131 of the Doctrine and Covenants. KNOWLEDGE Latter-day Saints believe in many scriptures which emphasize the need to acquire knowledge. Important among these are the following: It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance. (D&C 131:6.) 140 Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. (D&C 130:18-19.) Since the purpose of life is to understand and live the laws which ultimately give salvation (eternal life), then salvation knowledge is the most important part of learning. If one lacks knowledge of the Savior, the atonement, how to accept the atonement for individual salvation, and also the Church which represents the Lord for salvation, it is impossible to be saved. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co.; 2d ed. Rev., 1949, Vol. V., p. 387 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC|.) The person who fails to live gospel teachings degenerates in knowledge. (DHC 4:588.) On the other hand, as one studies by faith, his concepts of God and eternity are enlarged, and his power to do good Is increased. (D&C 88:118; Alma 12:9-11; DHC 2:8.) Essential salvation knowledge to be learned by the saint is that which pertains to the preservation of his membership in the Church. The revelations give ways by which one may not be deceived by every wind of doctrine. The Latter-day Saint is well grounded in the path of safety when he accepts the following truth: Everything we know about God and our relationship to him comes from revelation. (D&C 52: 9, 36.) The revelations are true for they come from the Giver of all truth. Knowledge pertaining to this life only, is insufficient for salvation. We must learn not only how to overcome our sins here, but we must, as the Prophet Joseph Smith says in the following quotation, learn how to triumph over evil in the world to come: Salvation is nothing more nor less than to triumph over all our enemies and put them under our feet. And when we have power to put all enemies under our feet in this world, and a knowledge to triumph over all evil spirits in the world to come, then we are saved. (DHC 5:387.) The member of the Church who learns the principles of salvation and the keys against being deceived while in mortality, will have that much advantage in the world to come. What we learn here will help us forever. Lesson Department Class Discussion Why is gospel knowledge necessary for success in this life and in the world to come? OBEDIENCE There is no true success in this life unless one is obedient to gospel principles. When one considers that this life is man's probationary period this _ fact is apparent. Elder Richard L. Evans of the Council of the Twelve, in discussing Section 130:18-19, has pointed out that if the student will keep in mind that diligence and obedience are the key words in the Lord's admonition for his children to acquire intelligence, he will not leave the faith. Those words are most meaningful— and I have no fear of learning, of the pursuit of knowledge, for any of our young people, if they will keep in mind diligence and obedience—obedience to the commandments of God, diligence in keeping close to the Church, in keeping active, keeping prayerful, keeping clean, keeping circumspect in their conduct. (Conference Report, April 1956, p. 44.) This advice concerning learning all truth, religious or secular, is in harmony with the Lord's counsel concerning good books, languages, and people. (D&C 90:15.) The following two scriptures emphasize the reason for obedience and also the operation of law: I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise. (D&C 82:10.) There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— 141 February 1969 And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. (Ibid., 130:20-21.) In 1831, the Lord gave reasons 'why the saints should be obedient. Among them are that we are citizens of the Lord's kingdom; the Lord has given this earth to his saints; lest death overtake us; the Savior pleads our cause as our Advocate; and we are Christ's sons and daughters because of our accepting his atonement. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Ed., pp. 252-254.) Class Discussion Why is obedience such an important law of God? THE GODHEAD The Prophet Joseph Smith said the following about the importance of knowing about God: If any man does not know God, and inquires what kind of a being he is,— if he will search diligently his own heart— if the declaration of Jesus and the apostles be true, he will realize that he has not eternal life; for there can be eternal hfe on no other principle. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, ninth printing, Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956, p. 344.) To know God ultimately is to become like him by obedience to his commandments. (D&C 84 19-23; 132:23-24.) The first step in knowing God is to recognize that God is a personal Being of flesh and bones. The doctrine of eternal life, or exaltation in the celestial kingdom, is dependent upon this truth. The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a 142 body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of Spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us. A man may receive the Holy Ghost, and it may descend upon him and not tarry with him. (D&C 130:22-23.) Why is it of value for the Latter-day Saint to know that God is a personal Being with body, parts, and passions? First, one may then know that faithful men may become as the Father in every sense of the word. Second, to know that God is personal and that he is our Father gives man the ability to approach Deity in prayer in a meaningful way, rather than to pray to an all-present spirit, as God is conceived in the "Christian" world. Third, the true concept of God and Christ and the Holy Ghost, who is also an individual—a Personage of spirit gives meaning to the scriptures about the members of the Godhead. Fourth, that God has a habitat, and he is not in person throughout all space. (D&C 130:8; Abraham 3:2-4, 9.) Class Discussion Wherein does the revealed doctrine of God help you to understand better the plan of salvation? ETERNAL MAN Latter-day Saints have the opportunity to know about themselves and their place in the plan of salvation. Whereas the "Christian" churches teach that man has his beginning, in this life, the Lord has revealed that all men had a premortal existence. (Abraham 3:22-23.) Men -and women are eternal beings by nature. They are made up of body and spirit, both of which are eternal. (D&C 93:29, 33; 131:7-8.) The following comes from the Prophet Joseph Smith: The spirit of man is not a created being; it existed from eternity, and will exist to eternity. Anything created cannot be eternal; and earth, water, etc., had their existence in an elementary state, from eternity. (DHC 3:387.) Latter-day Saints understand that they shall have an eternal existence. They will never experience a time when there is not conscious existence. Through the resurrection man's body will be eternally wedded to his spirit. (D&C 93:33-34.) With this understanding of man's eternity, how does this information contribute to the Latter-day Saint's understanding of himself and of the need to give obedience to gospel principles? The following points may contribute to the answer to this question: (1) Since man is an eternal being there will be no end to conscious existence; therefore, he will come to judgment as the Lord has predicted. (D&C 76:110-111.) (2) Man is capable of accepting religious truth when he hears it, unless sin darkens his comprehension. (D&C 93:30- 33.) (3) Man is endowed with free agency and is responsible for his actions in mortality. (D&C 93:29-33.) Although man was created by God, the Creator is not responsible for what man does during his earthly probation. (4) Since man was begotten by God, he is capable of becoming as his Heavenly Parent. (5) Because man is eternal, the Latter-day Saint has the basis for making decisions, for he knows that these decisions have their eternal consequences for good or Lesson Department for evil. THE EARTH The scriptures reveal that the earth is a living organism. (Moses 7:48-50; John A. Widtsoe, Joseph Smith, p. 149-150.) Elder James E. Talmage said the following concerning all created things: Every created thing has been made for a purpose; and every thing that fills the measure of its creation is to be advanced in the scale of progression, within the bounds of its own kind or kingdom, be it an atom or a world, a protozoan or man. (Roy W. Doxey. The Latterday Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1964, 3:162.) The earth fulfills the purpose for which it was created in obeying a celestial law. (D&C 88:25.) It was created that it might be a habitat for man; in-fact,. Men are born of this earth. Because the earth fulfills this purpose, it will be rewarded by being sanctified and become a celestial planet. (/bid., 88:26.) In this condition, the earth will be as a Urim and Thummim whereby celestial beings will be able to learn about "all kingdoms of a lower order..." (Lbid., 130:9.) Those who receive the highest blessings of the celestial kingdom will receive a white stone which "will become a Urim_= and Thummim... Whereby things pertaining to a higher order of kingdoms will be made known" (I[bid., 10-11.) In one's quest for saving knowledge there is discovered that, as the earth obeys the law by which it progresses to a celestial kingdom, so also the Latterday Saint understands that full obedience to gospel law is necessary for eventual celestialization. 143 February 1969 SALVATION The purpose of life is to work out one's salvation in this world and in the world to come. (D&C 46:7.) Salvation comes by obedience to the principles and practices of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve, reminds us that eternal life is not achieved in this life, but an assurance of it may be received here. (D&C 131:5.) In order to make one's calling and election sure, the following three things are necessary: (1) to receive the testimony of Jesus and be baptized; (2) to receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands; and (3) to be sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise. Brother Romney proceeded to say:... What is required is wholehearted devotion to the gospel and unreserved allegiance to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Speaking to this point, the Prophet taught "... That those who keep the commandments of the Lord and walk in his statutes to the end, are the only individuals" who shall receive the blessings.... We must be willing to sacrifice everything. Through self-discipline and devotion we must demonstrate to the Lord that we are willing to serve him under all circumstances. When we have done this, we shall receive an assurance that we shall have eternal life in the world to come. Then we shall have peace in this world. (Conference Report, September 1949, pp. 41-44.) JOSEPH SMITH, THE PROPHET The Lord declared that this generation would receive the word of the Lord through his Prophet, Joseph Smith. (D&C 5:10.) As long as the dispensation of the fulness of times continues, the word of the Lord through the modern books of scriptures and 144 the Prophet's writings will continue to go forth to the world. One of the remarkable evidences to support the mission of Joseph Smith is the prophecy on war. (D&C. 87.) This revelation states that the American Civil War would begin with the rebellion of South Carolina, for a "voice" declared to Joseph Smith that there would be armed conflict between the North and the South. It would "probably arise through the slave question." (D&C 130:12-13.) Slavery would be a_ contributing cause of the Civil War, but not the sole cause of it. This point of view agrees with most historians on the cause of that war, although there are some proponents of the theory that slavery was the single cause. The important truth is that the Civil War was prophesied, and that the details of that war, mentioned in Section 87, were fulfilled. Out of that truth comes a lesson. As one gains more knowledge through diligent study, its value to him comes through his obedience to what is learned. This blessing comes through studying by faith. (D&C 88:118.) THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST The Savior told his disciples anciently and today that no man knows the day and the hour of his second coming. (Matthew 24:36; D&C 49:7.) Preparations are underway and have been since the dispensation began for the return of the Savior. His words to his disciples are pertinent today: Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. (Matthew 24:42; Joseph Smith 1:46.) As one gains more knowledge by his diligence and obedience, his faith is strengthened and his insight into the signs of the times is enlarged. He is obedient to this counsel and finds safety in these words: "... If ye are prepared ye shall not fear." (D&C 38:30.) IMPLEMENTATION Every Latter-day Saint is counseled to learn the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. A regular time each day for study brings many rewarding blessings. Without salvation knowledge it is impossible to be saved. Knowledge in itself is not sufficient for Lesson Department salvation, but knowledge obeyed brings salvation in this life and in the world to come. (D&C 59:23.) A rewarding experience for a Latter-day Saint is to learn the value or application of each principle or doctrine of the gospel. By doing this he learns that gospel teachings are consistent in themselves, and each principle is harmonious with the other parts of the gospel. Basic to one's appreciation of the gospel as a motivator for righteous action is the doctrine of man's relationship to God, premortality, purpose of life, man's environment, the assurance of being on the Lord's side, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 8—''... Thou Shalt Be Reconciled' (D&C 42:88) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that reconciliation is more than forgiveness. Two little boys were playing together. The younger brother through carelessness broke a beloved toy of the older boy. When the older one protested, the younger one kicked him. Instantly the two were fighting. The wails of anger and hurt reached the mother who _ intervened. Gradually the hot passions subsided. Finally, the mother persuaded the younger child to ask forgiveness of his brother for breaking his toy. The older boy, then, said, "I forgive him," but his eyes were angry, his tone grudging, and all morning he was short-tempered and curt with his brother. The mood persisted all day. When night came the mother tried again to smooth away the 145 February 1969 anger and hurt, but the boy could not forget his broken toy. She explained again how important it is to forgive. "I told him I forgave him," he replied sullenly. Are words enough? What must take place in the heart, mind, and behavior of both the offender and offended? And if thy brother or sister offend thee, thou shalt take him or her between him or her and thee alone; and if he or she confess thou shalt be reconciled. (D&C 42:88.)... Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you. (Matthew 5:44.) Give to him that asketh of thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away. (Matthew 5:42.) And be kind one to another....(Ephesians 4:32.) In these words of Jesus, the apostle Paul, and the words of the Lord given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, we see that more is expected than just the sentiment and expression of forgiveness. It is not enough to say, "I forgive." To "love," "bless," "do good," "pray," "give," and "be kind" demand not only an attitude of forgiveness toward the other person, but action. "Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed." (Shakespeare, Richard II, Act I, Scene I.) Repentance and forgiveness are the first essential steps, the necessary states of mind and heart which prepare the way for reconciliation. The next step requires great courage. One must take the offending one into a private session and work out the problem. Many misunderstandings can be erased, if we are wise, tactful, and loving. In addition reconciliation is reciprocal. One must confess, the other forgive, and both must enter into a loving, harmonious relationship. Jesus drew the pattern for us in the story of the prodigal son who "... When he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him." (Luke 15: 20.) The sin, then, is to be forsaken and forgiven; the hurt assuaged; the pattern of loving friendship and companionship resumed. "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God." (Matt. 5:9.) a ( OF MAN AND GOD Man's loud jet shattered the night, Rattling my window pane. God's silent moon rose in its wake, Quieting the earth to peace again > —Alda L. Brown 146 HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education: ( | j t / } Discussion 8—Let's Go Inside (Continued) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out ways to beautify our home interiors, with emphasis on furniture arrangements and use of accessories. INTRODUCTION (Review the introduction to Discussion 7, most of which is applicable here. Review also Discussion 5, The Relief Society Magazine, November 1967.) Although in the arrangement of our furniture we are concerned with the overall effect of beauty and charm, we must not lose sight of the practical considerations of convenience and _ use. Beautiful rooms which are not conducive to comfort and convenience or which are not practical for family living have failed in their function as a home. Efficiency in function and ease of maintenance are necessary qualifications for today's way of living whether it be in the Americas, in the countries of Europe, or in the islands of the sea. It is not possible to present plans of furniture arrangements that have universal application, for homes and people all over the world differ widely in most of the things which determine their ways of living. The following suggestions, however, should help us effectively to utilize what we have and plan wisely for what we need to acquire. Furniture should be arranged to serve the purpose of the room. Furniture should be conveniently placed for its particular use and for its accessibility. Furniture should not interfere with circulation; doorways and other passageways should be free from obstruction. The center of the room is usually kept relatively clear for circulation. Furniture should be placed in proper relation to any architectural or mechanical features so as not to interfere with the swinging of doors, the opening of windows, or the operation of electrical or heating devices. Furniture should be arranged so as to afford an agreeable balance between sizes, heights, and forms. Furniture should be arranged so that the room will not appear to be underfurnished or overcrowded. Furniture should be arranged so as not to obstruct the view or interfere with the enjoyment of any work of art or architectural feature of interest. Furniture should conform to the size and style of the room. Small delicate refined pieces, for example, should not be placed in large-scaled rooms where only large pieces are appropriate, and vice versa. Furniture may be placed so as to take advantage of natural light or possible view. Furniture groupings for different purposes should be separated by a reasonable space or by screens or room dividers. Groupings for noisy activities should be arranged as far as possible from those planned for quiet areas. 147 February 1969 Major pieces of furniture could be arranged so that they seldom or never have to be moved. This will save time and energy, not to mention wear and tear on the furniture itself. WHAT ABOUT THE ACCESSORIES? In one of our previous discussions we were told that the "little things make all the difference." Have you ever wondered why one room can be a place of inviting warmth and _ beauty while another, though comparable in size'and cost, can appear cold and impersonal or cluttered and busy? The accessories—those little personal touches—make the difference. These are the things which contribute to the character of the room, which complement the color scheme, and which reflect the culture, interests and personality of those who live there. We all have them; some of us use them to add beauty and character to our homes, and some to add clutter and confusion. A few suggestions may help us to use them to enhance the beauty of our homes rather than to mar it. We should select and use only accessories that are beautiful or interesting or that make a needed contribution to its setting. We should avoid making unwise purchases or using items which detract from the harmony of the surroundings. We should relate our accessories to our furniture groups. We should study our arrangements and discard any unnecessary pieces. It is far better to use too few accessories than too many. We should keep accessories clean and free from dust, grime, or tarnish. We should have the courage to de-- velop our own creative urges and express our own individualities. CONCLUSION In any arrangement of our home furnishings, it is well to remember that people are more important than furniture or things. Our furniture and our accessories are for our use and our enjoyment, and they should therefore be chosen and arranged to promote the kind of living which will meet our own needs and make us comfortable and happy in our homes. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 8—Are We Preparing? | Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out that being prepared for tomorrow may require diligent effort today. 148 INTRODUCTION Although a single act of service to others may inspire thousands, the good life is not the result of. A few isolated, worthy deeds. It is achieved by daily striving and by consistent application of righteous principles. It is of interest to observe how important, in the lives of men who have achieved greatness, are the progressive steps which have led to their accomplishments. So it was with President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. He was continually preparing for the future. Consequently, when national appointments and religious callings came to him, he was sufficiently prepared to fill these positions with efficiency and honor and to make significant contributions. This last social relations lesson of the 1968-69 year, will be largely one of review and of questioning. It will be a looking back to the "Profiles Remembered" of lesson 1 and will enlarge upon some ideas discussed in the lessons that followed. This question will be ever in mind: Am I prepared to meet the challenges of today? Am I really preparing for that tomorrow which I hope to realize? Am I putting forth intelligent, dedicated effort today with my eyes upon the harvest? Or am I merely spending today's precious time? SEED TIME AND HARVEST In the cycle of harvest to harvest, we observe three general stages of growth; the seed planting, the nurturing, and the reaping. Each period is important, for without the seed there would be no harvest; without proper Lesson Department nurturing, the quality of harvest might be inferior or even lost; without the reaping and replanting, the cycle would be broken. Such an analysis may be of interest to the Latter-day Saint woman for her particular role in life places her in an influential position in this cycle. TODAY IN THE CYCLE Where is today, in this life cycle? For the home with small children, today is the time of planting—planting of the basic seeds for habit and character building. For the home where there are no children present, it may be a time for special nurturing. In each period there is need for appraisal; a time for such questions: Am I planting seeds of faith, of initiative, of dependability in the lives of the children? Am I nurturing the qualities of maturity by providing a favorable home-climate for their natural growth? Am I, who now am adult in body, nurturing qualities in myself, which will enrich all human relationships in which I am involved? Am I doing that which will make my relationship with my Heavenly Father faithstrengthened? A WISE TRAINING We observed in lesson 1 that President Clark was introduced to the need and value of work, at an early age. That he welcomed the challenge of work throughout his life, is evidence that he received wise training in his formative years. This attitude toward work became basic to his character and general philosophy. He believed that for maximum 149 February 1969 growth, an individual should put forth spiritual, mental, and physical effort, and he believed that it is important for individuals and for nations to give full value in return for that which they receive. At a First Citizen's Conference on Government Management held at Estes Park, Colorado, in 1939, President Clark related the struggles of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints through handicaps of nature, and through various migrations resulting from _— severe persecution, to its later growth and prosperity. He said: The Church vigorously decries idleness. Industry, economy, and thrift are extolled. Deceit, avarice, dishonesty, lying, greed, graft are condemned. Honesty, truthfulness, sobriety, willingness to give, love for fellowmen, sympathy for woe, misery, and want, service to and for others are urged to the point of command. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "The Honor and Value of Work and Self-Reliance," The Improvement Era, September 1965, pp. 780-781.) An impressive statement from this discussion is this: The laws of righteousness and progress are eternal. There is no escape from them, either for the individual or for the nation. An uncorrupted citizenry builds a great state; no state ever built an uncorrupted citizenry. (Jbid.) Question: Do you believe that Latter-day Saint mothers today may be denying their children the development which comes from work because they want them to have an "easier" life than they themselves had? Discuss briefly. ASKING MYSELF—IN REVIEW The following questions relate to the social relations lessons of 150 this year (1968-69). They will recall major ideas developed in the lessons and may encourage additional thinking and class participation. 1. (a)Are the questions which every thoughtful Latter-day Saint woman asks regarding her place in the plan of life satisfactorily answered in my mind? (b) How should these answers influence my activities and my attitude? (Lessons 2 and 8.) 2. (a)Am I making use of the teachings of the Savior in my various human' relationships? For.: example, are they helping me: To make love and kindness dominant in the atmosphere of the home? To demonstrate compassion for a neighbor who has_ experienced disappointment or sorrow, with a concrete act of kindness? To encourage a peaceful, friendly atmosphere in the neighborhood by being such a person? To be merciful to myself by forgiving myself of an error as I strive to overcome it? (b) Do I read the scriptures enough to know what Jesus teaches regarding human relationship problems? (Lesson 3.) 3. (a) Am I allowing the uncertainties of today's complex world to make me discouraged? If so, what am I forgetting? (b) Am I helping my children understand that faith, virtue, and courage are especially important and needed in today's world—and that they must help to build a better tomorrow? (Lesson 4.) 4. (a)Do I ever appraise my attitude and activities to see if I am being deceived by false religious doctrines, the importance of luxury possessions, false social values? (b) Do I ever wonder if my attitude and actions may give an impression that I consider myself better than others? (c) Do I deceive myself, thinking that I am sufficiently righteous and have no need for improvement or concern? (Lesson 5.) 5. (a) Am I striving to bring unity and not dissension into all relationships where I am involved? If so, how? (b) Do I believe that noncomformity is desirable when to conform would violate a gospel principle, or do I cultivate a general attitude of opposition? (Lesson 6.) 6. (a) Do I follow counsel and direction willingly or do I serve half-heartedly, and resent the time spent in Church service? (b) Am I a good follower by reading the Relief Society lessons in the Magazine before coming to meeting so that I may assist the class leader with helpful participation and benefit myself thereby? (Lesson 7.) FOR ALL WOMANHOOD President Clark had_ great respect for womankind, a deep understanding of her role in the plan of salvation, and a tender, almost reverent appreciation for all women who fulfill the role of wife and mother with compassion and honor. Relief Society sisters who have heard him address their Annual General Conference sessions, have been inspired by his counsel, by his testimony, and by his words which help one to envision the destiny of righteous mothers of Zion. Perhaps no Church leader of our time has spoken of the specific role of the Latter-day Saint woman with more understanding. He speaks movingly of her influence as virtuous sweetheart, devoted wife, and loving mother. In "To Them of the Last Wagon" he pays humble tribute to his own mother, who was born in 1848 as the pioneer convert family moved slowly across the desert miles to the mountain valleys of promise. His wife, Luacine Savage Clark, was a devoted helpmeet. He appreciated her willingness to adapt Lesson Department herself to the varying conditions of their happy married life. Although not specifically mentioned in the following excerpts, which accent wifehood and also motherhood, President Clark was mindful of all Latter-day Saint women. He was aware of the blessings of eternity which await the virtuous woman who accepts the commandments and ordinances of the gospel available to her, although she may not be blessed with motherhood. Uncounted women have been, and are engaged in earthly careers of valuable and unselfish service to children who are not their own earthly offspring. In the fields of nursing, teaching, social work counseling, and many other such vocations, there are innumerable virtuous and worthy women. The justice of the Father will not overlook virtue and service in all his daughters. PLAN AND FULFILLMENT Question: Do you as a Latter-day Saint woman sometimes wonder how important you are in the all encompassing plan of the gospel? In an address delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1946, President Clark outlined the role of woman in the plan of the gospel, emphasizing her importance in forwarding that plan. From his address we quote: So came Eve, an helpmeet to the Priesthood mission of Adam—Eve the last created being in the creation of the world, without whom the whole creation of the world and all that was in the world would have been in vain and the purposes of God have come to naught. When, after the Fall, both Adam and Eve knowing good from evil, the Lord 151 February 1969 promised them redemption and Adam prophesied concerning their posterity. Eve, hearing the glorious plan and the destiny of herself and Adam, was gladdened, and broke into a great song of praise: "Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good. And evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient." (Moses 5:11.) From that day, when Eve thus placed first among her blessings the power to bear children, the greatest glory of true womanhood has been motherhood. What a miracle is motherhood; how nearly infinite is mother. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Our Wives and Our Mothers in the Eternal Plan," The Relief Society Magazine, December 1946, pp. 795-804.) And how impressively moving are President Clark's words to the daughters of Zion: How fair is the daughter of Zion Whose body is unsullied. Ft CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family How serene is her brow That houses the pure mind. How clear is her eye, shining with the light of truth How beautiful are her cheeks, unblushed with shame. How sweet are her lips, Untasting of forbidden fruit, How lovely are her arms, Shaped for the nurturing of motherhood. How sacred are her breasts, Life fountains for the babes, born of her flesh. How holy is her body For the fashioning of her offspring Begot under the covenant. How angel-like is her mind—the dwelling place of righteousness— How priceless is her soul, Daughter of God, glorified for the eternities. For Home-Doing Re-read this lesson. It is for you—and for me—today. Lesson 7—The Achievement of Serenity Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Seven By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles.'' —Ralph Waldo Emerson Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that serenity can be achieved as a beautiful goal in life for all women who will build their lives around undeviating honesty and integrity. 152 Lesson Department MUSIC: Johannes Brahms, Sonata No. 2 in D-Minor, Opus 108 For violin and piano—2nd Movement—Adagio Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. There is much music that typifies the attribute of serenity. Out of the myriad musical selections that express this quality, the Adagio movement of the Brahms Sonata No. 2 for violin and piano was selected for two main reasons: First, chamber music was written to be played in intimate surroundings, often the home—the place where perhaps more than anywhere else we _ experience serenity. Second, Brahms was a composer who mastered the art of composition so well that his music often expresses an inner peace and serenity, feelings that came to him, no doubt, because of his faith in himself as a composer. INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON Serenity, one of our most beautiful words, describes the tranquil strength of great men and women who live by unyielding integrity. Serenity is the outward calm of an inner conscience at peace with itself. Serenity is the reward of never compromising one's principles no matter how great the temptation or how fearsome the danger. Serenity is the deep inward peace of mind that results from doing what one believes is right. Serenity is the combination of quiet courage linked with undeviating standards. The fruits of righteous living may, at times, be material but, at all times, will be spiritual. One of the greatest of these is peace of mind. The punishments for unrighteous living may, at times, be physical but, at all times, will be spiritual—the anguish of a guilty conscience, the torment of a troubled mind. Moreover, as the joy and serenity are greater for one who does right knowingly rather than accidentally or in ignorance, so the anguish and torment are greater for one who does wrong knowingly rather than accidentally or in ignorance. Serenity, then, is the ultimate earthly reward for one who lives always by high principles and who both lives and dies with a clear conscience. Unfortunately, no man or woman ever achieves complete serenity in this life because we are all imperfect. Christ alone was perfect. Even so, serenity still stands as a beautiful ideal to work towards, and one that can, in considerable measure, be reached if the total of good things in our lives heavily outweighs the total of contrary things. Edna St. Vincent Millay in her poem "Conversations at Midnight" had something like this in mind when she wrote: Conversations at Midnight There is no peace on earth today save the peace in the heart 153 February 1969 At home with God. From that sure habitation The heart looks forth upon the sorrows of the savage world And pities them, and ministers to them; but is not implicated. All else has failed, as it must always fail. No man can be at peace with his neighbor who is not at peace With himself; the troubled mind is a trouble maker. There is no freedom like the freedom of a man who sees his duty plain And does it without demur. Perhaps we may wish to question the meaning of "implicated"' in the fourth line and debate the accuracy of "the troubled mind is a trouble maker" in the seventh line, but the over-all message seems beautifully clear and to the point. LIFE AND WRITINGS OF ELIZA R. SNOW To illustrate serenity, there are many noble, courageous, highprincipled, faith-abiding women, both in and out of the Church, whose lives might be used. We have chosen for consideration one of our own Latter-day Saint pioneer women, probably the most poetically gifted of all the pioneer women, and one of the great women leaders of all time in the Church—Eliza R. Snow. The following information on Sister Snow is excerpted from a booklet published several years ago for the dedication of the Eliza R. Snow Hall, one of the beautiful Heritage Halls for women students at Brigham Young University. From the age of twenty-nine when Eliza Roxey Snow was baptized into the Church, until the end of her long life in 1887, this practical daughter of Puritan 154 forebears was concerned with furthering the cause of the gospel by helping members of the Church to live more abundant lives. As organizer and executive, as writer and speaker, and as the first woman schoolteacher in the Church, she devoted her unusual energy and talents to stimulating active understanding of Gospel principles. Her marked intellectual ability was early recognized by her family, and she was given the best education available in her home state of Massachusetts. It was she who was selected by the Prophet Joseph to teach his "family school"—both in Kirtland and Nauvoo. Her "select school for young ladies" in Kirtland presented an opportunity for the education of girls not generally available at that time. But Sister Snow's ideas on education were never narrowly academic. She encouraged her students to become proficient in the domestic arts and was herself a skilled needlewoman. Most of all, however, she wanted the young people of the Church to recognize the need for schooling in the Gospel. True to her trust as secretary of the first Relief Society in Nauvoo, she brought its "Book of Records" with her to Salt Lake Valley. In 1866 President Brigham Young called her to aid the bishops in organizing a Relief Society in every ward and branch of the Church. During the ensuing twenty-one years, as the General President of Relief Society, she faithfully performed this mission. Today in the Church Eliza R. Snow is probably best remembered as the author of the poem "O My Father," which preaches the uniquely Mormon doctrine that we have a Mother as well as a Father in Heaven. Composed in 1843 while she was living with the Stephen Markhams, this poem was written out on a wooden chest—the only piece of furniture resembling a table which her room afforded. Eliza R. Snow's vision of the role of women in the Church has left its imprint on all the auxiliary organizations in which women take a directing part. No. Poem which she has left us pleads so eloquently her love for the truth of the restored gospel as does her life. To the women of the Church she is a symbol of selflessness—of complete devotion to the role which the Lord assigned her.... As we study the poetry of Eliza R. Snow a century after it was written, it will probably seem somewhat old-fashioned to many readers today. The language tends to be flowery and a little stilted, and the poems lack the rich imagery and other artistic subtleties that appeal to contemporary poetic tastes. She was writing in the fashion of her day, and many of her poems were primarily sermons in verse. But this is not to say that she is not an important writer. She wrote hundreds of poems, which, considered as a group, form an impressive body of writing. The poems may be lacking in artistic sophistication, but they are rich in both human wisdom and religious faith, and through them we see the personality and character of a truly great woman—diligent, courageous, spiritual, idealistic, but also sensible, practical, realistic, forgiving, and, above all else, serene in the confidence of her faith in God. SOME GOOD THINGS We shall examine first a small poem called "Some Good Things" which expresses the serenity of her faith. Some Good Things When from injustice' bitter cup We're fore'd to drink the portion up, And wait in silence heaven's reward, "Tis good to lean upon the Lord. When haplessly we're plac'd among The venom of a lying tongue, "Tis good to feel our spirits pure And our inheritance secure. "Tis good, 'tis soothing to the mind, If friends we cherish prove unkind, And meet us with an angry mood, To know we sought to do them good. Lesson Department When pale-fac'd Envy seeks to fling Across our path its envious sting, "Tis good to know we never aim'd To gain a prize that others claim'd. When by unmerited demand We bow beneath oppression's hand, 'Tis good within ourselves to know That tides of fortune ebb and flow. When persecution aims to blind The judgment and pervert the mind, 'Tis good to know the path we've trod Is sanction'd and approv'd of God. When superstition's meagre form Goes forth and stirs the wrathful storm, *Tis good amid the blast to find A steadfast, firm, decided mind. When we are tossing to and fro Amid the varying scenes below, "Tis good to hope through Jesus' love To share his glorious rest above. "Tis good to live by every word Proceeding from the mouth of God: "Tis good His faithfulness to trust, And freely own His precepts just. THE LORD IS MY TRUST This serene faith in God which was the main source of Eliza R. Snow's unceasing strength, is further shown in several "psalms" which she wrote, including the following: The Lord Is My Trust Thou that didst create the heavens and the earth, the seas and the fountains of water, thou art my God. Thou art the same—thou changest not, therefore I will not fear; for thy word will endure, and thy promises will surely be verified. In thee have I put my trust; and I know in whom I have confided, and I shall not be confounded. Though difficulties rise before me higher than the Himmaleh mountains, I will go forward; for thou, Lord, wilt open the way before me, and make straight paths for my feet. When the billows of Change encompass me—when its surges dash furiously, 155 February 1969 and the foam thereof is nigh unto overwhelming, thy power will sustain me: I will smile at the rage of the tempest, and ride fearlessly and_ triumphantly across the boisterous ocean of circumstance. Thy Spirit is better than the juice of the grape, thy approbation is preferable to the smiles of earthly friends, thy favor is richer than the finest gold, and thy wisdom transcendeth all human understanding. Thy power is supreme, thy plans are founded in wisdom, thou wilt perform thy purposes and none can prevent. The principles of thy kingdom are principles of truth, and truth is everlasting as thyself, therefore thy kingdom will stand, and those that abide its laws will come up before thee to dwell in thy presence. I will adhere to thy statutes, I will abide the New and Everlasting Covenant, not counting my life dear unto me. When the clouds of uncertainty gather upon the horizon, darker than the shades of midnight, when distrust is raising its standard over the broad field of expectation, thy word will dissipate every obstruction, and the "testimony of Jesus" will light up a lamp that will guide my vision through the portals of immortality, and communicate to my understanding the glories of the Celestial kingdom. ADDITIONAL POEMS BY ELIZA R. SNOW Harmonious communication and trust-filled understanding— these meant a great deal to Eliza R. Snow. "Sweeter to me than honey in the comb is the communion of congenial minds," she wrote in a poem called "Confidence." Not very often does she speak harshly of anyone, but occasionally she lashes out against those who deceive and betray, "who pray like Abel and perform like Cain," who use "creamy words" to hide dishonesty. Note, for example, the opening lines of her poem "The Hypocrite and the Traitor." 156 The Hypocrite and the Traitor I hate hypocrisy—that velvet thing With silken lips, whence oily words flow out. *Tis like a mildew in the social cup Of lfe—'tis worse than mould—'tis poison—'tis A worm disguised, that eats asunder the Most holy cords of confidence, that bind In cordial fellowship, the hearts of men. Kind words, with falsehood in them? Yes, how strange! Designed to please—and yet, they do not please, But sting, like vipers, into friendship's core. As a final sampling of Eliza R. Snow's many poems, we turn to one in which she outlines what she feels is the proper role for a woman. Comfort, compassion, understanding, encouragement, wise counsel, faith, fortitude— these are the special gifts that a woman can bestow on those she loves: What Is, and What Is Not for Woman 'Tis not for her to plough the deep, And gather pearls from ocean's bed; Or scale the rugged mountain's steep, For laurel wreaths to deck her head. She gathers pearls of other name Than those the ocean's bosom yields— Fair laurels never known to fame, She culls from wisdom's golden fields: "Tis not for her to face the foe Amid the cannon's thund'ring blaze; Or shudder at the winds that blow Tremendous gales in torrid seas. But there are foes of other form— Of other aspect, she should quell; And whisper music to the storm, When seas of passion rudely swell. 'Tis not for her to lead the van— To be ensconced in Chair of State To legislate *twixt man and man— Nations and laws to regulate. 'Tis hers to fan the sacred fire Of manhood's true nobility— The heart of nations to inspire With patriotism and liberty. 'Tis hers, with heav'nly influence | To wield a mighty power divine— To shield the path of innocence And virtue's sacred worth define. 'Tis hers to cultivate the germs Of all the faculties for good, That constitute the Godlike forms Of perfect man and womanhood. 'Tis hers the sunbeam to sustain Amid misfortune's chilling breath— To silence grief—to solace pain— To soothe and cheer the bed of death. His pathway in the battle lies— He should not fear the raging flood: Give man the breast-plate courage plies, But give to woman, fortitude. OTHER EXAMPLES OF SERENITY In addition to this material on Eliza R. Snow, the text for this month's lesson (Out of the Best Books, Volume 4, Section 7) contains' brief — biographical sketches and excerpts from the writings and speeches of Martin Luther, Robert Emmet, Abraham Lincoln, Emile Zola, Mahatma Gandhi, Winston Churchill, and John F. Kennedy which even more dramatically illustrate that kind of serenity which derives from courageous integrity in the face of great adversity. These are dramatic moments lifted from the pages of history. All show great moral courage rooted in sincerity, honesty, integrity, and deep conviction. All portray moments in the lives of great men who had the integrity and courage to speak the convictions of their hearts no matter what the consequences. Some teachers presenting this month's lesson may wish to cover only the material on Eliza R. Snow. There is sufficient on her for a full, rich lesson. Other teachers may want to reach into the vivid, dramatic material on some of the other figures. Lesson Department MARRIAGE | feel a silken threat Each day wind 'round my existence, Not in tangles, But in patterns; Not to bind me, But to free me. | have wanted the thread-like duties Marriage has brought, Not to stop my doing, But to guide my steps, Not to prevent my youth and joy, But enrich. | have found here peace To last the eternities. So this is what heaven is all about. —Julie Wilson The —ao Complete G— printer ¢ Art and Design * Hot Metal Typesetting ¢ Fototronic Typesetting ¢ Color Processing ¢ Letterpress * Sheet Offset ¢ Web Offset ¢ Perfect Binding ¢ Saddle Stitch Binding ¢ Automatic Case Binding ¢ Shrink Packaging ¢ Shipping and Mailing a PESERET FReEews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 157 February 1969 THE SILVER SONG Little winter sparrows, | wonder why you stay When almost all the feathered folk Seek winter holiday. You glean the seeded berries, The sparsely proffered crumbs, Weather tempered to the cold— And wind's bleak, wailing drums. When the sun obscured from sight Wears its mask of gray—you Perch upon a snowy limb, Giving your song away. | thank you for your presence in The spruce tree old and blue, | thank you for your silver song That changes daytime's hue. —Beulah Huish Sadleir PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours— Hill Cumorah Pageant Canadian Rockies and Northwest Black Hills Passion Play Hawaii Rose Parade Europe Alaska Mexico and others Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 t Besley MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers"' "'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos _ Instruments And Supplies > \ EbenczaS Order Your Easter Music Now Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 158 THE MOUNTAINS' CRY The mountains call, They call to me But numbly stand | by. The pain of love And loneliness ls echoed in their cry. | stand alone Upon the plain, And wait for him to say, "Come, let us go To the mountains high And simple homage pay."' —Renata W. Sukys DLAUIIT All Grain Stone Ground Flour Mill For full information, write Dept. R. S. P. O. Box 115 Tremonton, Utah 84337 JACARANDA TREE Never as lovely held high in pale clusters leafy with green jacaranda blossoms fray from the tree: lavendar over the lawn the curb, the seam of the street. As if stretching up to the blue and falling with separate color the flowers release their hold to lace the parched bones of summer and scatter the sky beneath our feet. Tn Se | —Bernice Ames Santee SPRING WAITS CLOSE Now, this is autumn, Mama said, \ This is the season man reaps his bread. \ But Mama is dead. \ And | stand tall as she was then And have seen autumn again and again. Autumn is the season most for men. Yet, always spring waits close behind The soft white blanket that is winter's blind— Spring waits close in a woman's mind. \ —Linnie Fisher cof; 159 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 103 Mrs. Eliza Wilcox Sparks, Arcadia, California 102 Mrs. Susannah Wagstaff McGhie, Salt Lake City, Utah 98 Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll, Mancos, Colorado 97 = Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nichols, Salt Lake City, Utah 96 ~—s Mrs. Ruth Elizabeth Maxwell Foote, Safford, Arizona 95 Mrs. Sarah Burr Coleman, Provo, Utah; Mrs. Rosa Cooper Wanslee Foote, Safford, Arizona; Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Alma Gertrude Watson McGregor, Provo, Utah; Mrs. Mary Lee Myers, American Fork, Utah; Mrs. Jane A. Kerr Scott, Ogden, Utah; Mrs. Emily Farnes Smith, Preston, Idaho; Mrs. Caroline Ringel Steed, Ogden, Utah 94 Mrs. Catherine Alice McCarrel Bee, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Anna S. Olson Gee, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Lina Bergner Lehmann, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Annie Astle Reiche, Alameda, California; Mrs. Ada Sylvester Snyder, Richfield, Utah 93 Mrs. Emma Margaret Stocking Holt, Murray, Utah; Mrs. Anna Anderson Jensen, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Annie E. Scarborough Millward, Grantsville, Utah; Mrs. Marion Angelia Chausse Petter, Billings, Montana; Mrs. Mary S. Sharp Young, Rigby, Idaho 92 = Mrs. Frances R. Tempest Bodell, Herriman, Utah; Mrs. Marie Goddhaus Ballsteadt, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Mary Etta Carrico Britton, Memphis, Tennessee; Mrs. Nettie Chadwick Bybee, Lorenzo, Idaho; Mrs. Mary Powell Fox, Lehi, Utah; Mrs. Alta Salisbury Lewis, Peoria, Illinois; Mrs. Anne Naef Merrill, Preston, Idaho; Mrs. Hattie Owens, San Diego, California; Mrs. Mary Ellen Spainhower, San Diego, California; Mrs. Edith Parker Stoddard, West Point, Utah; Mrs. Lillie Clark Walker, Providence, Utah; Mrs. Maude Bell Wells, Las Vegas, Nevada 91 = Mrs. Effie Dougal, San Diego, California; Mrs. Emma Louise Jackson Facer, Logan, Utah; Mrs. Margaret Ann Gross Fults, Altamont, Tennessee; Mrs. Ella Ette Stephenson Hill, Burley, Idaho; Mrs. Betha A. Kleinman, Mesa, Arizona; Mrs. Eliza Floral Farnsworth Lemon, Altamont, Utah; Mrs. Jennie Konstance Ericsen Nelsen, Los Angeles, California; Mrs. Effie Hunter Simpson, Salt Lake City, Utah 90 Mrs. Josie Oaks Houtz Alleman, Springville, Utah; Mrs. Nellie North Bennion, Murray, Utah; Mrs. Mary Ann Jackson Coulam, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Jane Sutherland Davidson, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Frances Hammond Hollinger, Pioche, Nevada; Mrs. Edna Jessup May Irvine, Bell, California; Mrs. Elizabeth Sylvester Jensen, Richfield, Utah; Mrs. Rosella Brown Kemerer, McKeesport, Pennsylvania; Mrs. Hulda Lundquist Nelson, Weston, Idaho; Mrs. Cornelia Peters Officer, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Annie Brenner Rogge, Safford, Arizona; Mrs. Florence Mae Dury Schmertman, Newhall, California; Mrs. Nellie Christine Ellefsen Smalley, Cascade, Idaho; Anna Eve Seegmiller Starr, St. George, Utah; Mrs. Maude Harris Strong, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Mary Crump Turner, Bluffdale, Utah 160 by Robert B. Day Here are stories of a rugged people who with courage and determination guarded a treasured faith. Read little known stories about Joseph Smfth. Follow men like Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and William Clayton on the trail to Zion and through the Utah war. Sere' ook 44 East South Temple, and Cottonwood Mall, Salt Lake City 2472 Washington Bivd., Ogden 777 So. Main, Town & Country Orange, California Ieee cece neces ee ceeteeen een es R. S. Feb. 69 by Dr. W. Dean Belnap and Dr. Glen C. Griffin This sensible guide to marital harmony frankly discusses all phases of marriage. Includes valuable information on temple marriage, husbandwife relationships and rearing of children. $2.95 $4.95 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 312% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send me (] ABOUT MARRIAGE AND MORE $2.95 [] THEY MADE MORMON HISTORY $4.95 Total cost $ 000..0..005 Enclosed find check (1, money order ([], established account (/). Ellnen ennnnnEey 4 | » ESSE EEN TEEEEEEESES Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 
