JUNE 1969 > ety > oJ _'s aa -. +e 4 a The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Iilustrations: AN HOUR FOR LISTENING Where spruce and fir were darker than the night In a dark forest, when the only light Was her reading candle and a glowworm's tail, Having marked the Book of Psalms, and prayed, Hilda rocked, For rocking pushed against the pull of sleep. This was her listening hour To horned owl gossips who-would keep Wind-lines busy, tying hill to hill, To broad-tail tocsins from 'the beaver pond Holding her suspended between to and fro For the heartbeat. Second of their diving time; To whimperings of a porcupine, To vaultings of a startled fawn— A canyon cadence bearing her Assurance of who her neighbors were. And Hilda rocked. - —Peggy Tangren Home and Gardens, South Africa Transparency by Three Lions Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Forest Flowers in Oregon Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 
Thank you very much for your kind gift of a free one-year subscription to The Relief
Society Magazine. We are, here in Eastbourne, a very tiny branch. We all take the
Magazine, and like all branches in the missions, we hope our numbers will increase.
If only all women knew the beauty, sweetness, and real down-to-earth goodness, as
well as the intense spirituality of Relief Society, it would need the town hall to hold
our classes. Our free copy of the Magazine will be used by a possible new sister or
as a gift. Sometimes we give a copy of the Magazine to someone in the hospital, either
member or nonmember. The patients like the Magazine for size and for pleasant,
comfortable reading. E6z V. Longbone, Eastbourne, Sussex, England
We do love our wonderful Magazine and realize how much we depend upon it. Every
poem, article, and story are special features to us, and we send our love to all the
sisters from the Scottish Mission in Bonnie Scotland.
Elva M. Brown, Supervisor, Scottish Mission Relief Society Edinburgh, Scotland
I have been a member of Relief Society for eight months, and I just had to write and
let you know how much I enjoy the Magazine, as I know we all do here in New
Zealand. The Magazine has certainly increased my testimony of the gospel. I have
just had the thrill of becoming our ward's Magazine representative and I presented
the recipe for Trifle out of the Magazine (January 1968) at the Auckland South Stake
Relief Society birthday social. I found it was one the best Trifles I have ever made.
Thanking you all. Lesley G. Wright, East Tanaki, Manukau, New Zealand
I do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine so much. It is the only woman's magazine
that I ever read, and I really do not feel the need for any other.
Gillian G. Brown-Lee, High Wycormbe, Bucks., England
Let me take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the lovely poems found
in The Relief Society Magazine. I was especially thrilled with "Sparrow's Worth," by
Kathryn Kay (March 1969 frontispiece). Mrs. Robert C. Hansen, Cedar City, Utah
About a year ago my mother subscribed for The Relief Society Magazine for me.
The stories are wonderful ^nd have meaning, which is more than can be said for
stories in some other magazines. One article that stands out for me— "Answer to
My Daughter"— by Amy Giles Bond appeared in March 1968. The article has humbled
me and given me greater understanding. Jo Ann Jensen, Boise, Idaho
I want to thank you for The Relief Society Magazine. I am a missionary in the Southern
States Mission. Not long ago my companion received a gift subscription to the Magazine
from his home ward. I have been reading the issues he receives and really
enjoying them. One thing I especially enjoy is the poetry. It would be difficult to find
such a collection of the work of Latter-day Saint poets anywhere else. One poet,
Dorothy J. Roberts, especially catches my attention. Her poems are so intellectually
inspiring that they have great appeal for me. I would like to read and study a collection
of her works. Elder Gene Trone, Bessemer, Alabama
"The Influence of a Friend" (by Shirley Chase, January 1969) was dear to read.
My husband is serving as a stake missionary and I truly appreciate the loving reminder
that cheerful, willing service has its own rewards and blessings. A mission call is a
family venture, and we all have grown and shared in its blessings.
Carol Olson, Richland, Washington

The Relief SOcCICty Magazine volume 56 June 1969 Number 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Content
Special Features 405 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 406 The Standard Works of the Church Marion G. Romney 412 \In Memoriam—Evon Waspe Peterson 428 South Africa—Land of Gold and Green Caroline Eyring Miner 438 ''The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way'' Jennie R. Scott Fiction 414 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 1 Alice Morrey Bailey 421 Welcome the Task—Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Michele Bartmess General Features 402 From Near and Far 418 Editorial—the 139th Annual General Church Conference 420 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 453 Notes to the Field—Relief Society Song Contest 459 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 480 Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 427 Hobby Features—Alice Rebinson Holyoak and Tillie Anderson Staples 442 The Art of Bread Clay Myrene Alvord 445 Candies of Excellence Dorothy J. Roberts 446 Springtime Is for the Birds Claire Noall Lesson Department 465 Homemaking—Garden Convenience and Safety Celestia J. Taylor Previews for 1969-1970 467 Spiritual Living Lessons Roy W. Doxey 469 Visiting Teacher Messages Alice Colton Smith 471 Homemaking Discussions Celestia J. Taylor 473 Social Relations Lessons Alberta H. Christensen 475 Cultural Refinement Lessons Bruce B. Clark 449 'The Girl in White'' by Julian Alden Weir Floyd E. Brienholt 450 ''Advice To a Young Artist'' by Honré Daumier Floyd E. Brienholt Poetry 401 An Hour For Listening Peggy Tangren Identity, Margaret B. Jorgensen 411; June Night, Beulah Huish Sadleir 450: Freedom, Vesta Fairbairn 456; The Lilt of a Lark, Pearle M. Olson 466; Suddenly Aware, Iris W. Schow 478. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts 403 

Emma Ray Riggs McKay June 23, 1969 m The General Board of Relief Society, on behalf of the world-wide sisterhood of the Church, takes this opportunity to wish a happy ninety-second birthday to Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, the wife of our Prophet, David O. McKay. In the only revelation given directly to one of his daughters, Emma Smith, the Lord said: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me " (D.&C. 25:12). Sister McKay has taken these words to Emma Smith into her own life, and has made music an integral part of the cultural aspect of her home, being an accomplished pianist herself. It is no accident that the children of President and Sister McKay love music, for this love was instilled in them from early childhood. Often when the children were young, they now recall, Sister McKay sang to them by the stove in the dining room, and there were always lullabies at bedtime. The family always enjoyed gathering around the piano while Mother played, and each was given the opportunity to learn to play musical instruments, and all were encouraged to develop an appreciation for good music. Sister McKay loves good and great music. Her favorite of the masterworks is "The Messiah"—that magnificent telling in music of the life of the Savior, the prophecies of his coming, and the eternal message of the gospel. "A silent home," says Sister McKay, "is a dull, sad place, and leads to melancholy. Music is soul inspiring, and no money is thrown away for musical instruments. Many an hour may be spent delightfully if daughter plays the piano, accompanying a brother violinist and a brother playing the clarinet or flute, or what you will. "Many a mother nearly distracted by a fretful child has been able to soothe him by softly singing a song to him. 'It is said that when Napolean exploded into one of his ungovernable furies, Josephine was wont to play for him.' Singing by the whole family together is great fun and a great help to a beautiful home." Sisters throughout the Church would do well to follow the example of Sister McKay in making music an important part of the home life of their families. Throughout this coming year, may she enjoy the rich blessings of good health and happiness which she so richly deserves, and may her birthday be one of joyful association with those whom she loves. 405 mw In her request for an "article on the Standard Works of the Church," the editor of this Relief Society Magazine said, "The sisters would appreciate a discussion of these sacred books..." —meaning, we assume, the Bible, The Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS AND THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE The Doctrine and Covenants is a book of modern scripture. It was first accepted by the Church as one of our standard works, August 17, 1835. Forty-one years later, in the 1876 edition of the book, twenty-six sections were added. Four years later, in the semi-annual conference of October 1880, President George Q. Cannon said: I hold in my hand the Book of Doctrine and Covenants and also the book The Pearl of Great Price, which books contain revelations of God. In Kirtland, the Doctrine and Covenants in its original form, as first printed, was submitted to the officers of the Church and the members of the Church to vote upon. As there have been additions made to it by the pubhshing of revelations which were not contained in the original edition, it has been deemed wise to submit these books with their contents to the Conference, to see whether the Conference will vote to accept the books and their contents as from God, and binding upon us as a people and as a church. President Joseph F. Smith said: I move that we receive and accept the revelations contained in these books, as revelations from God to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to all the world. The motion was seconded and sustained by unanimous vote of the whole 406 The Standard Works of the Church Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve Conference. (Conference Reports, October 10, 1880) Ten years later, October 6, 1890, in like procedure, the Church adopted the Manifesto. In this manner, the Doctrine and Covenants, with its present content, became and now is one of the standard works of the Church. By the October 10th, 1880 action, the saints also accepted the contents of the Pearl of Great Price as revelations from God and binding upon them as a people and as a Church. During the next twenty-two years, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, the content of the book was somewhat revised. Consequently, in October 1902, President Joseph F. Smith, then president of the Church, said to the saints in conference assembled: I hold in my hand a copy of the revised edition of the Pearl of Great Price. The Pearl of Great Price as it originally existed, was presented before the General Conference and accepted as one of the standard works of the Church. Since then the book has undergone a revision; that is to say, all the revelations that it formerly contained which were also in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, have been eliminated from it. We now present this book in its revised form—the original matter being preserved as it was before, only divided into chapters and verses—for your acceptance as a standard work of the church. It was moved and seconded that the book be accepted as a standard work of the church, and the motion carried unanimously. (Conference Reports, October 6, 1902, page 82.) The Pearl of Great Price contains: (a) Visions of Moses as revealed to Joseph Smith the Prophet, in June 1830. (b) "The Writings of Abraham while he was in Egypt, called the Book of Abraham, written by his own hand, upon papyrus," as translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith. (c) The following writings of the Prophet Joseph Smith: 1. His translation of the last verse of the 23rd chapter, and the 24th chapter of Matthew. (King James version.) 2. "Extracts from the History of Joseph Smith, the Prophet.' These extracts deal principally with events incident to the First Vision and the coming forth of The Book of Mormon. 3. The Articles of Faith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. THE BIBLE The Bible is a book which contains that part of the word of God revealed to men in ancient and New Testament times, which has been preserved in writing. It consists of the Old and New Testaments. We believe it "to be the word of God as far as it ls translated correctly." (8th Article of Faith.) We do not, however, believe that it contains all the Lord revealed to his people in ancient times. From what we can draw from the scriptures relative to the teachings of heaven, we are induced to think that much instruction has been given to man since the beginning which we do not possess now. We have what we have, and the Bible contains what it does contain through the kind providence of our Father a portion of His word which He delivered to His ancient saints, has fallen into our hands, is presented to us with a promise of reward if obeyed, and with a penalty if disobeyed. (DHC Vol. 2, page 18.) 407 June 1969 THE BOOK OF MORMON The first thing revealed in this dispensation about The Book of Mormon, was spoken by Moroni on his first appearance to the Prophet Joseph on the night of September 21, 1823.. He [Moroni] said there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this continent, and the source from whence they sprang. He also said that the fulness of the everlasting Gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants. (Joseph Smith 2:34.) After the Prophet obtained and translated the record and published the book, the Lord himself said that he, the Prophet, was given "power to translate" it "through the mercy" and "power of God" and that it contains ".. A record of a fallen people, and the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jews also," and that "as your Lord and your God liveth it is true." (D&C 1:29; 20:9; 17:6.) In November of 1841, some twelve years 'after its publication, the Prophet Joseph said: I told the brethren that the Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts than by any other book. (DHC Vol. 4, page 461.) Of all men, Joseph Smith was best qualified to make this appraisal. No other person comprehended the content of The Book of Mormon as did he. As he translated, the Holy Ghost enlightened his mind and quickened his understanding. As the glorious teachings contained in the record were revealed to him, they made 408 an everlasting impression upon his mind and soul. The Book of Mormon was for Joseph Smith a handbook from which he first learned the fundamental principles of the gospel. The King James version of the Bible, and The Book of Mormon, were both available to the Church at the time of its organization, April 6, 1830. They were then and ever since have been used by the Church as standard works. As early as February 9, 1831, the Lord, in the revelation "embracing the law of the Church," gave this instruction:. The elders, priests and teachers of this church shall teach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, in the which is the fulness of the gospel." (D&C 42:12.) As quoted above, the Prophet Joseph declared The Book of Mormon to be "the keystone of our religion." So far as I am advised, the nearest the Church has come to accepting the Bible and Book of Mormon by formal vote was in the General Conference October 6, 1902, when it accepted the Pear! Of Great Price as one of the standard works of the Church. The Pearl of Great Price then contained, as it now does, the eighth article of faith, which reads: We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. Although the revelations recorded in these four "sacred books" were given in different dispensations, "Yet," in the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, "all things which God communi- cated to His people were calculated to teach them to rely upon God alone as the author of their salvation " (DHC, Vol. 2, page 17.) Set forth in these "standard works" is the law of. Heaven, which "guarantees to all who obey it a reward far beyond any earthly consideration." (Joseph Smith, DHC, Vol. 2, page 7.) It ' guarantees eternal life in the celestial kingdom of God. A distinguishing provision of this divine law, not common in the law of earthly governments, makes it "necessary for men to receive an understanding concerning the laws of the heavenly kingdom, before they are _permitted to enter it. " (bid. Page 8.) It is this provision which makes the standard works of first importance. Surely, all who "acknowledge their divine authenticity" must have a deep interest in their content. The editor of The Relief Society Magazine spoke wisely when she characterized the "subject" of this article as "one which is vital to Latter-day Saint women in regard to their receiving instruction and inspiration for daily living." (Letter to me from Marianne C. Sharp, January 15, 1969.) I can think of no surer way to seek "instruction and inspiration for daily living," than daily to read and prayerfully contemplate a chapter or so in these sacred standard works, which contain the law of heaven. To do so has ever been the counsel of the Lord. In his farewell address to Israel, Moses reviewed the events and experiences of their "wanThe Standard Works of the Church derings in the wilderness" and exhorted them "to. Gratitude, obedience, and loyalty to Jehovah." (Dummelow, One Volume Commentary, page 12.) Over and over again, he declared that their survival, happiness, and success, depended upon their remembering the Lord and obeying the laws he had given them. After reviewing some of these laws, including the Ten Commandments, Moses continued: Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord: And thou shalt love the Lord thy God \. Ith all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes. And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and on thy gates. (Deut. 6:4-9.) In these instructions and many more, Moses stressed as the strongest bulwark against apostasy, and the most faith-promoting practice, constant consideration of the laws of God. And it shall be [said he] on the day when ye shall pass over Jordan unto the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, that thou shalt set thee up great stones. And thou shalt write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly. (Deut. 27:2,8.) And... When Moses had made an end of writing the words of this law in a book, [he].. Commanded the Levites, which bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord, saying, Take this book of the law, and put 409 June 1969 it in the side of the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, that it may be there for a witness against thee. (Deut. 31:24-26.) That is to say, ancient Israel was to be judged by their compliance or noncompliance with the content of "The Book of the Law." By the same token, modern Israel will be judged by their compliance or noncompliance with the law of heaven contained in our "standard works." When Joshua, succeeding Moses, was to lead Israel over Jordan into the Promised Land, the first instruction he received from the Lord included a solemn charge to give constant attention and strict obedience to the law contained in the books written by Moses, their standard works.... Be thou strong [said the Lord] and very courageous that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee: turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good _ success. (Joshua 1:7-8.) During his earthly ministry, Jesus charged the "Jews" who disputed his Sonship, to study the scriptures—to which they looked for eternal life—to learn of him. Search the scriptures, he said, for they are they which testify of me. (John 5:39.) Nephi, the son of Lehi, thus expressed his attitude towards the standard works available to him:. Upon these [plates] I write the 410 things of my soul, and many of the scriptures which are engraven upon the plates of brass. For my soul delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them, and writeth them for the learning and the profit of my children. (2 Nephi 4:15.) Jacob associates the searching of the scriptures with the establishment of peace and love among the people and their ability to recognize and resist false doctrine. And it came to pass [he said] that peace and the love of God was restored again among the people; and _ they searched the scriptures, and hearkened no more to the words of this wicked man. (Jacob 7:23.) King Benjamin emphasized to his sons the importance of sacred records and their continual use, as he taught them concerning the records which were engraven on the plates of brass, saying: My sons, I would that ye should remember that were it not for these plates, which contain these records and these commandments, we must have suffered in ignorance, even at this present time, not knowing the mysteries of God. For it were not possible that our father, Lehi, could have remembered all these things, to have taught them to his children, except it were for the help of these plates; for he having been taught in the language of the Egyptians therefore he could read these engravings, and teach them to his children, that thereby they could teach them to their children, and so fulfilling the commandments of God, even down to this present time. I say unto you, my sons, were it not for these things, which have been kept and preserved by the hand of God, that we might read and understand of his mysteries, and have his commandments always before our eyes, that even our fathers would have dwindled in unbelief, and we should have been like unto our brethren, the Lamanites, who know nothing concerning these things, or even do not believe them when they are taught them, because of the traditions of their fathers, which are not correct. ST a a O my sons, I would that ye should remember that these sayings are true, and also that these records are true. And behold, also the plates of Nephi, which contain the records and_ the sayings of our fathers from the time they left Jerusalem until now, and they are true; and we can know of their surety because we have them before our eyes. And now, my sons, I would that ye should remember to search them diligently, that ye may profit thereby... (Mosiah 1:3-7.) The missionary prowess of the sons of Mosiah was in part due to the fact that "they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God." (Alma 17:2.) The Savior himself thus spoke to the Nephites concerning the writings of the Old Testament prophets: And now, behold, I say unto you, that ye ought to search these things. Yea, a commandment I give unto you that ye search these things diligently; for great are the words of Isaiah. For surely he spake as touching all things concerning my people which are of the house of Israel; therefore it must needs be that he must speak also to the Gentiles. And all things that he spake have The Standard Works of the Church been and shall be, even according to the words which he spake. Therefore give heed to my words; write the things which [ have told you; and according to the time and the will of the Father they shall go forth unto the Gentiles. And whosoever will hearken unto my words and repenteth and is_ baptized, the same shall be saved. Search the prophets, for many there be that testify of these things. (3 Nephi 23:1-5.) No one of our standard works is of more importance to us than the Doctrine and Covenants. The revelations there recorded were specifically given for our guldance. The degree to which we conform to the law of heaven prescribed therein, will determine our place in the heavenly kingdom. Under these circumstances, it would seem that Relief Society sisters, and every other believing Church member, would desire to follow the Lord's directions to: Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. (D&C 1:37.) Treasure these things up in your hearts, and let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds. (D&C 43:34.) In numberless hues, IDENTITY Who am |? Only my Heavenly Father knows, For he created my spirit, and knew my intelligence. What am |? Again, he alone knows, now; But he desires that | learn To comprehend myself. This requires eternity. | could become a unique source Of infinite responses to truth. Why am I? A prism needed Through which truth may shine That beauty and joy may be embodied. —Margaret B. Jorgensen 411 IN MEMORIAM Evon Waspe Peterson General SecretaryTreasurer July 15, 1900—April 25, 1969 412 m@ Words that she uttered just a few minutes before she slipped into eternity were symbolic of the life of Evon Waspe Peterson who died suddenly on April 25, 1969. As the General SecretaryTreasurer since November 15, 1967, she had given her full devotion to the calling. One of the General Board members present at a small luncheon on April 25 thanked Sister Peterson for all she did for her and other members who came to her for assistance. Sister Peterson's reply was characteristic of her life. In her usual modest way of disclaiming credit, she said quietly, "Why, I'm there, and I'm just there to serve. I'm glad to serve." Evon Peterson has been on the General Board ready to serve since her appointment in June 1945. Serving all the years since, she has devoted her time unselfishly to the Relief Society which was so dear to her heart. Some years after her appointment her natural endowments caused President Spafford to make her Administrative Assistant to the General Presidency, a position requiring great managerial ability. Her further talents were used as she was called to be General Secretary and Treasurer, which position she has filled with distinction. Throughout the past seventeen years Sister Peterson would rarely leave her work without taking a briefcase along home filled with home work. The eight, officeworking hours did not allow her time to complete her work. This practice she fulfilled cheerfully, viewing it as part of her Church calling. She has given valuable service both to the exacting General Board service performed at the office and also as she has visited nearby stakes and those far away from headquarters. She has been a member of the General Board except for two months, throughout the _presidency of President Spafford. Her health was excellent and it was thought many more years of helpful service lay ahead for her to the benefit of others. Prior to Sister Peterson's call to the General Board she held responsible positions with the Red Cross, served for many years as secretary to the Community Chest drives, and for ten years she was secretary to the Superintendent of the Granite School District. Her every ability was utilized in the work she has so ably performed on the General Board. She is the wife of John Vernon Peterson and the mother of a daughter, Carolee Peterson Kempton and a son Ronald E. Peterson. There are eight grandchildren. Elder Peterson has supported his wife in all her callings. The Peterson home has had as its way of life devotion to the Church. Evon Peterson was a dedicated and faithful Latter-day Saint. Those who worked for her felt a warm relationship with her. Those under whom she worked recognized in her an _ untiring handmaiden of the Lord who was ever ready to put aside her personal desires for the good of others and the work. Truly she was a worthy daughter in Zion. Her descendants in future years have cause to rise up and call her blessed. 413 2h veeen ne HEAR'T ROOM FOR HOME Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 1 s they neared Los Angeles Mary Ann's mind was racing, trying to encompass this new situation in their lives, to fit the care of Kim's father into an already full schedule—Rosemary's wedding and Tommy's graduation in the spring. Taking care of Dad Freeman would have the direct result of her having to break her contract as home room teacher of the Fourth Grade of the San Gabriel school. The year had _ barely started when they had _ been called home to Mayville, Utah, at the removal of Father Freeman from the nursing home after his accident three months before when he had broken his hip. 414 Adjusting him with proper care in his own home, where he had lived alone since Mother Rachel died a year ago last June, had proved impossible. Bolstered by tranquilizers and pain pills he was now asleep in the bed they had made for him in the back of the station wagon. He had been asleep since Las Vegas, and they were free to think of the impact he would make on their pattern of family living. Kim (for Kimberley) seemed remote, the skillful execution of Cajon Pass taking all his ability as they had dropped down into the coast valley through the San Bernardino mountains, but his mind was on the problem, too, as evl- 5 ee denced by his next remark. "If only it were Jennifer getting married," he said. "Yes," Mary Ann answered, looking back to confirm that Father Freeman was asleep. He must not know they were worrying already about money. Jennifer was their unselfish child, never wanting a thing so badly that she would accept sacrifice from others. She had been willing to use Barbara's wedding dress, even though it was out-dated and her sister Barbara was taller than: she. Rosemary had already set her mind on a three hundred dollar creation and a reception at the swankiest place in the outer limits of their possibility, bridesmaid dresses that cost at least forty dollars each, and rented tuxedos. She had informed her parents that she expected as a wedding gift at least a new car or a houseful of furniture, they could take their pick. "You'll have plenty of time to pay it off, since I am the last little bird to leave the nest. Can I help it if I have expensive tastes? By the way, I want sterling silver—not plated, nor stainless steel. I intend to entertain a lot, so I will need service for twelve." Rosemary was the pretty girl of the family, titian-haired and creamy skinned, with a softness about her that belied the hard little core of her demanding nature. There seemed to be some barrier about her that Mary Ann couldn't break through, though she had thought much about it and tried often. "T have no intention of working," she had stated flatly, alHeart Room For Home most. Belligerently. "I intend to be a. Homemaker, a full-time mother and wife," and Mary Ann had lauded her for this decision, ignoring the personal thrust of Rosemary's glance. Mary Ann had started working during the war, when help was scarce and there had been a call for teachers, so many had left to work in munitions plants. Jennifer, who was born in 1935, was in school by then, as were the others, Barbara, ten years older than Jennifer, James and Robert in between. Tommy was not born until 1944 and Rosemary followed soon after, in 1946. When Rosemary was old enough for kindergarten Mary Ann had gone back to teaching to help fill the widening gap between Kim's wages and their family needs. Kim was a highly skilled mechanic in the Metropolitan Garage, but his income would never reach the status of "salary." Fe im sighed heavily without taking his eyes from the freeway, and Mary Ann reached her hand to his knee. "It's another change, isn't it, Kim? Are you worried? It will split our income right down the middle, you know." "There's that to think of, too," said Kim. "But it's taking Dad out of his home that I am thinking about." "Selling it to put him in a nursing home is worse," consoled Mary Ann. "He couldn't stand that." Selling the family homestead had been the crux of the whole thing. It had been Kim's sisters, Emily Todd and also Francine 415 June 1969 Grady, who had advocated that drastic move, and the little scene played out in the parlor which had moved her and Kim to take his father. "Td take you in a minute, Dad," Emily had said. "But you know how Victor is—never wants me out of his sight a minute. Life would be miserable for you with us." "T didn't say—I didn't want. Began her father, and Mary Ann had ached with the trembling anguish in his voice. She had been sitting beside the window, ostensibly an in-law aloof from the thinly veiled battle that raged back and forth in the room, with Father Freeman the unhappy subject of this little, turgid knot of indecision. Up to then Mary Ann had loved both her two sisters by marriage, but this conversation was bringing out traits which were anything but pretty. Victor Dodd had always seemed to Mary Ann to be a nice, uncomplicated, unselfish man. "T would, too, Dad, but you know I have my own job," said Francine. Kim and Mary Ann were overdue back to their own jobs, of course. "The whole answer is to sell this place," pursued Emily reasonably. "And put Dad into a rest home." "No! No," protested her father. "T can get along. As soon as I am well, I can." "From a broken hip?" aakeel Francine. "I'm not trying to be cruel, Dad, only realistic. I agree with Emily. The place must be sold. There are many good homes with wonderfulcare, people 416 of your own age as friends, but we'd have to sell the place to keep you there." "No! No!," Father Freeman was moaning, shaking his head back and forth in negation. "How can you think of such a thing, France? Emily?" said Kim, echoing the feelings in Mary Ann's heart. 'That sweet place! Every red stone of it, every square inch of its building was a product of Father Freeman's loving hands, the lilacs along the rock wall, set there when he had brought his bride to the _ thick-walled stone house he had built, the weeping willow dipping its long slim fingers in the bright little brook that bubbled from the spring against the hill back of the house, into and out of the pond where even now the ducks were diving in pastoral peace. Dad was more than a little artistic the way he had landscaped the place, with the flagstone walks winding gracefully under the trees and over the arched bridge, by the rustic bench. The stream circled a knoll, with fruit trees, all prize stock, to the garden _ behind, the corrals out of sight and the acre of lucerne, and the meadow beyond. It had always been a show place from the first crocuses and violets as early as February, through rose time with its bowers and arches, until the last cushion mum which bordered the walks and bloomed from July to October. The children thought it a fairyland. Sell this place? There had been a little silence, then, and an apple thudded to the ground. Since they had come this time Kim had picked the main part of the crop of red and yellow delicious apples and stored them in barrels, dug the carrots and _ parsnips and packed them in cans of sand and picked the winter pears, stored everything in the milk house which his father had chiseled out of sheer rock beside the spring, in perfect coldness for winter eating. Francine and Emily had been happy to assure him that none of them would go to waste. With modern surgery, a steel pin and bone graft, Kim's father had healed remarkably for his eighty-five years from his fracture, and was now up in a wheelchair, even able to get about by use of a "walker," but he could in no way do for himself, or be left alone. A moment of unbalance, an attempt at something too far beyond his reach, and all the good work would be undone. "With care, you will be able to walk again," the doctor had said. "By spring?" Father Freeman asked. "Maybe by spring—with good care." But where was the good care coming from? Had they not just taken it for granted Emily would take her father? She lived less than a mile away, on a part of the old farm sliced off for her and Victor as their wedding gift. Or perhaps had they just neglected to think it through, knowing there was no good solution, dreading to come to grips with it, so settled were they in their family and work patterns, Heart Room For Home the necessity of earning their daily bread. To be sure, they were both past sixty—Kim was sixty-four to his father's eight-five, Mary Ann was sixty-one, but they were still youthfully healthy and were valued as employees in their respective jobs. With Rosemary getting married in June and Tommy getting his degree in sociology from the University of Southern California at the same time, it would take their combined efforts to see the children through their respective high points. Rosemary's fiance was Cary Marks, a young lawyer. The other four children were married, Barbara, James, Robert, and Jennifer, and launched in their lives, but could Mary Ann condemn Emily and Francine for their inability to care for their father in his old age? W..; there just no place for old people in the family of today's living? Unless the children could honor their parents enough to make a place for them, how much better than savages were they? "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land," hit Mary Ann with a _ particular force. Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, only a few grandfathers back, had held high places in their families in the times of the Old Testament, but were not today's children bound by the same commandment? And were the earlier patriarchs any more deserving of honor than Father Freeman, who had filled a twoyear mission to Scandinavia in (Continued on page 457) 417 \ EDITORIAL/ The 139th Annual @ The 139th Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the historic Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1969. Of particular significance this year was that Easter Sunday, April 6th occurred upon the same day as the commemoration of the founding of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, April 6, 1830. In a time of the radiant return of springtime weather, and in a setting of blossoms, the Conference placed a pervading emphasis upon the mission of the Savior and ''the greatest event that has ever taken place in the history of mortal man—the resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Creator of the world, who came and gave his life for us and was resurrected."' It was reported that the membership of the Church at the close of 1968 reached 2,684,073—revealing the great momentum of the gospel message. The stakes and missions of the Church, the wards and branches continue to increase in numbers and in faithfulness to the Lord and service to mankind, with a remembrance and an active devotion to the work of salvation for the dead. Officers and saints from every continent attended the Conference. Thousands of priesthood holders throughout the United States and Canada listened to the special priesthood meeting from the Tabernacle by closed circuit. Other sessions were carried by video tape over a blanket of radio and television stations throughout the world. Translators were busy ''broadcasting the words of counsel as they came from the speakers."' By means of modern communication facilities, the messages of conference were delivered to individuals and congregations throughout the world, and the saints enjoyed a unity of rejoicing. From his home nearby, President David O. McKay, in his ninety-sixth year, presided at all the sessions of Conference, and his addresses were read by his sons Robert McKay and David Lawrence McKay. In his address at the opening session on Friday morning, President McKay stressed the importance of home and family in the strengthening of individuals and in the righteousness of nations. Volume 56 June 1969 Number 6 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor 418 General Church Conference An essential, fundamental element in the building and in the perpetuity of a great people is the home. The strength of a nation, especially of a republican nation, Is in the intelligent and well-ordered homes of the people. In the well-ordered home, we may experience on earth a taste of heaven. It is there that the babe in a mother's caress first experiences a sense of security; finds in the mother's kiss the first realization of affection; discovers in mother's sympathy and tenderness, the first assurance that there is love in the world. The exalted view of marriage as held by the Church is given expressively in five words found in the 49th section of the Doctrine and Covenants: ''Marriage is ordained of God." It is said that the best and noblest lives are those which are set toward high ideals. Truly no higher ideal regarding marriage can be cherished by young people than to look upon it as a divine institution. In the minds of the young, such a standard Is a protection to them in courtship, an ever-present influence inducing them to refrain from doing anything which may prevent their going to the temple to have their love comsummated in an enduring and eternal union. President McKay's great love for the saints and his concern for their welfare both during the time of earth life and in the long milleniums of eternity, were evidenced in his closing address in which he gave a blessing and offered comfort and direction: _. With truth as our guide, our companion, our ally, our inspiration, we may tingle with the consciousness of our kinship with the Infinite, and all the petty trials, sorrows, and sufferings of this life will fade away as temporary, harmless visions seen in a dream. Today as we commemorate the coming forth from the tomb of the crucified Lord, | bear my testimony to you and to all the world that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accepts the resurrection not only as being real, but as the consummation of Christ's divine mission on earth. | know with my whole soul that as Christ lives after death, so shall all men, each taking his place in the next world for which he has best fitted himself. God bless you in your individual lives, in your home life, in your Church activities, and give you the comfort that comes to every soul who loses himself for Christ's sake, | pray in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL BOARD: Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S$. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucille P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Mayola R. Miltenberger Maurine M. Haycock 419 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Belle Smith Spafford of Salt Lake City, Utah, General President of the Relief Society, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was a guest of honor Friday night, April 11, 1969, at the 50th anniversary dinner of the New York League of Business and Professional Women's Clubs. Mrs. Spafford, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, congratulated the league on its fifty years of existence. Flora Amussen Benson, wife of Elder Ezra Taft Benson, of the Council of the Twelve, was selected ''Woman of the Year'' at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, March 25, 1969, and was presented with the Distinguished Achievement Award "'in recognition of an outstanding example of womanhood."' She spoke at the Annual Mothers-and-Daughters Day on the campus to some 2,000 people. Elder Benson was present with Sister Benson at the meeting and in the evening he addressed the student body. Both Elder and Sister Benson spoke to the missionary language school at Ricks. Sister Benson's citation reads, in part: ''As a youth your positions of responsible leadership, education, participation in drama, athletics, and music, aspirations for high ideals, and real determination have helped prepare and shape your character into an outstanding epitome of womanliness. As a mother, your domestic interests and values have demonstrated themselves in your prayerful dedication to home and children. Your faith, spirituality, foresight, and encouragement are attributes which have characterized you as a charming and devoted wife...."' Marlene Telford Lundahl, a Latter-day Saint, and mother of nine children, is manager of designing, promotion, and sales of the Jer Marai Lingerie Company, a multi-million dollar firm in California. Her husband, Gerald Lundahl, had received his M. D. Degree and completed his internship when he was stricken with polio. Marlene kept the family going and the business progressing. After his recovery from paralysis, but still being unable to practice medicine, Dr. Lundahl became a full-time partner with his wife and took charge of the technical aspects of manufacturing. Margaret Chase Smith, Republican, Maine, remains the only woman among fifty-seven United States Senators in the ninety-first Congress. A member of the House of Representatives in 1940, and successively for ten years, she has been a Senator ever since. She feels that a woman president of the United States would run the Government on a strict budget as a good housewife manages a home. Denied a college education through circumstances, her intelligence and ability have been recognized by the bestowal of thirty-six honorary degrees. Patsy Takemoto Mink, Democrat, Hawaii: Charlotte T. Reid, Republican, Illinois; Martha W. Griffiths, Democrat, Michigan; Lenor K. Sullivan, Democrat, Missouri: Margaret Heckler, Republican, Massachusetts; Florence P. Dwyer, Republican, New Jersey; Shirley Chisholm, Democrat, New York: Edith Green, Democrat, Oregon; Catherine May, Republican, Washington; Julia Butler Hansen, Democrat, Washington— these ten are women United States Representatives, among a total of 432 Representatives. Several nations that have enjoyed democratic government for far fewer years than America, are far better represented by women in political life than is the United States. 420 Welcome the Task Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Chapter 8 (Conclusion) @ Jennifer had to wait two additional weeks to find out what Jim's very important question that he had to have an answer to was. He had not been too happy when she had turned down his invitation to the dance, however when he arrived he was all smiles and confidence. Instinctively, Jennifer knew that she was going to be faced with the most important decision of her lifetime. She felt strangely calm. "Jenny," he began. She tried not to appear too eager.: "Do you love me?" It was a direct question, and one she had not quite expected. "T—I'm fond of you, Jim," she said truthfully. "Fond enough to marry me?" he pressed on eagerly. She hadn't expected it to be quite that sudden. Before she could answer, he pursued the subject. "Ill soon have my law degree and a good position. I love you Jenny, and I want to give you the world, and I'll be able to, you know that." He talked on about the wonderful places they would go and the things they would see together, his handsome face flushed, his blue eyes eager, but Jennifer was only half hearing him. Somehow this wasn't the marriage proposal she had dreamed of all her life. The setting was right. It was a warm May evening; They were sitting on a _ rock overlooking the valley, towards the lake. A slight spring breeze was wafting the smell of newly blooming roses across the air. Of course Jim would take her to the temple, that was simply a foregone conclusion, and if he wanted her for his wife, surely that meant the mother of his children, although this hadn't been mentioned. The things he was mentioning now were things she had not considered too important. Membership in the country club would be nice, but it wasn't a basis for a successful marriage, and money alone would not buy happiness. When he finished, she sensed that he was awaiting her affirmative answer. Suddenly the selfassurance she had so admired in him annoyed her just a little. She finally answered, "I'm in no position to get married right now, Jim." _ His tone was authoritative. "Jenny, you have to think of yourself sometime. You have given your family your whole life for close to a year. They 421 June 1969 have no right to expect it forever, and you would be a fool to give it to them." "Right now they need me, Jim. They haven't expected anything I haven't been more than willing to give." They mildly argued the point until Jim stood up angrily. "Well, you have a convenient excuse. I'll take you home now." The ride home was a silent one, and Jennifer wondered if he was right. Perhaps she was using her family as an excuse. She only knew that her heart had not been set afire by this young man whom she had once thought would make an ideal husband. As he walked her to the door, she said, "I'm sorry, Jim." He brushed off the hand she had gently placed on his arm. "T'll be back in September to see lf you have changed your mind," he said, and was gone, leaving Jennifer a little hurt and very angry. She worked hard the next two weeks, getting spring housecleaning done. One afternoon her father called her into the den. He expressed his appreciation for all that she had done, and the fine manner in which she had carried on in her mother's footsteps. He reminded her that she had her own life to lead. She assured him that she would and told him that her name was definitely on the summer commencement list. Then he said gently, "Jenny, there is something I want to tell you. Your mother and I talked about this a great deal, and I want you to know that it was she who urged it." 422 Jennifer was puzzled. What could he be driving at? "Someday, you are going to want to marry and have your own family. And well prepared you are going to be, from your experiences here. However, we are not going to be prepared to live without a woman's influence." "Dad, I won't leave until " "Jenny," he stopped her gently, "what I am trying to say ls that I am going to start seeing women—socially." She stared at him speechlessly. How could he even think of such a thing! Oe | e went on more gently. "You see, Jenny, I need companionship and the boys will need a mother. Not. A replacement of your mother, for no one could ever take her place for any of us. But we must go on and live as full a life as possible here on earth. Your mother made me promise this. You see you weren't the only one she was preparing. At the time I had no intention of ever keeping that promise, but time has indicated that she was right." Jennifer listened numbly as he talked, hardly believing it possible. Somehow, she managed to get out of the room without losing her dignity; without letting her hurt and disapproval show through. She went through the motions of preparing, serving, and eating dinner, and finished the dishes. With everyone in the living room, she bolted out of the back door nearly knocking Steve over in her intensity. He took one look, and knew something was upsetting her. "Want to talk about it?" he asked. "No!" she answered shortly. "Mind if I walk along, in case you change your mind?" She did change her mind and he listened patiently. "T think I know how you feel, Jenny. But he has a point. He is a very lonely man. Some men need a good woman at their side. You don't know how hard it is not to share life with a companion. I've often wished Mother had remarried." As they talked, Jennifer began to see some sense in what Steve was saying. She could finally accept the situation, but not without reservations. Each time she suspected her father of having a date she had to fight the rising resentment. Dating! It was preposterous. She and Dave were dating, and Pete occasionally, but their father! She didn't think of the time in Houston when she urged Bea to consider Dick, nor of the terrible loneliness in her father's eyes. Jennifer began to suspect any single woman over twenty-five years old of having designs on her father. When she received a letter from Bea telling her that she would stop in when she and Dean came to Provo to enroll him in the university, Jennifer suspected that it was Charles she really wanted to see, for she had often admired him. When Bea arrived, Jennifer was somewhat cool to_ her mother's cousin and her own dear friend. Bea attributed it to tiredness. The girl had taken on quite a task, surely it would be discouraging at times. Bea drew Welcome the Task the story about Jim from Jennifer. She was amazed at his behavior. "T never thought that selfconfidence of his would get the better of him like that," she said. "I hope he learns a lesson before it is too late." "It was a shock to see him suddenly turn so angry," Jennifer admitted. "I guess I should have told him that I just wasn't in love with him, for if I were, I don't think anything would keep me from his side." "I think he suspected that, Jenny," Bea said wisely. "But a man's pride is indeed a delicate thing." "Yes, I know that. I don't suppose he will come back this September as he threatened to do. It's better left dead, I think." "Oh, he may make one more try. Is Steve still a part of all this?" Jennifer blushed. "I don't know. I haven't really given any of it too much thought. [''m just taking things as they come. By the way, do you still see Dick?" It was Bea's turn to blush, and she did so girlishly. "I thought you would never ask. We're being married at Thanksgiving." Jennifer threw her arms around her. "Oh, I'm so happy for both of you," she said sincerely. "Thank you, Jenny. It is wonderful to have someone care about me again, and to be able to return that love. I feel like a whole woman again, and I know John would want it this way, and the boys are most happy about it." 423 June 1969 Jennifer surprised herself by saying, "I hope Dad can find someone to make him happy again." "Yes," Bea said, "it is hard to be alone, especially with children. I don't know what Dick thinks about becoming a stepfather and grandfather at the same time, but he seems to be adjusting well," she laughed. Bea talked on about Dick, her sons, and the precious granddaughter who was growing so fast. Jennifer's thoughts went to Houston on a wave of nostalgia. So much had resulted from that one little trip. Strange, she thought, how life is. CG harles Miles had found the woman who brought the light back into his eyes, and a smile to his lips, and Jennifer had never suspected a thing until he told the family. Nyta Rey had been accompanying him on _ temple trips for nearly six months, and they had been good friends over the years. Jennifer was truly glad. The boys could not have been more pleased, and when Charles brought her. Over, she was blushing like a new bride. We're being married for time in the Manti Temple," Charles explained. Sam hugged her and smiled up at her. "Hi, Mom," he said, as tears filled Nyta's eyes. Dave was quietly reserved, but Jennifer knew that he would accept the situation wholeheartedly, just as she had. Pete merely smiled his approval. Charles answered the phone. "What?" he asked, obviously somewhat disturbed. His listened 424 for quite a period of time, and then said, "Let me call you back, I'll get to the bottom of it." He turned to Nyta wearily. "You may as well get a taste of what being the mother of these three is going to be like. Pete, Sam, into the den. Dave, you seem to be innocent this time. Jenny, you had better come, too." Jennifer could. Not imagine what could have possibly happened, but she obediently followed him into the den. "All right, boys," be. Began sternly. "You took a job caring for your Aunt Net's grounds. Am I right?" Both boys nodded. "That job included keeping the place weeded, the grass trimmed, and general yard upkeep." Again the boys nodded. Jennifer could not imagine what had gone wrong. Nyta watched him fondly, knowing full well what trouble sons could get into at times. "May I ask," Charles said exasperatedly, "just how you managed to ruin every bit of grass that you were supposed to trim with the shears?" Pete gulped. "Did we ruin it?" "Well, Aunt Net says that it has turned yellow, apparently from some sort of burning. I would call that ruined. How did you do it?" Pete looked at Sam, Sam looked at the floor. "Pete, as the older, you are responsible. Answer me," his father commanded. Pete cleared his throat. "We used gasoline on it so we wouldnt have to cut it." Their father threw up his hands and proceeded togive the boys a stern lecture. It was all Jennifer could do to suppress a giggle. It was serious but also amusing. She glanced at Nyta and noticed a smile playing at the corners of her mouth. It was decided that the boys would have to pay for the damage, and that their father would assist them in repairing it, making certain that it was done properly. After he sent the boys out of the room, he shook his head and smiled, "Of course you realize I never did anything like that as a boy," he confided. Jennifer was again faced with the problem of what to do with her life after the marriage. She. Would be through school. She decided to take a position in the Salt Lake City schools. She had promised to type Steve's thesis in the spring. With that finished, he, too, would have completed his education. She had welcomed the task that took her beyond herself. What the future held, she could not foresee and had given up trying. Oe Welcome the Task She found an ex-roommate from college who had an apartment in Salt Lake, and when the honeymooners' returned, — she would be ready to leave. Steve offered his services in helping her to move. He, too, had moved into a small apartment in the city, and was commuting to Provo for his classes. Jennifer's position would be open in February. For two months she would work on genealogy and had other preparatory plans before taking over the job. Winter had settled on the Salt Lake valley, and Temple Square was being readied for the Christmas season with its many beautiful lights. Steve and Jennifer walked along, hand-inhand. They stopped to gaze up at the temple spires, their beauty so enhanced by the soft lights and falling snow. "Well, I guess we're sort of related now," Steve said. "True," Jennifer smiled. "I hope they will be very happy." June 1969 "Me too. You and I are both displaced persons you know. But, at least, you are all moved in," he grinned, remembering the heavy boxes. "Yes, and it's kind of nice to have my own life to plan now, but I suspect that I will sort of miss having others to do for." They had moved around toward the Assembly Hall, and discovered that it was open, although empty. Gently he led her to a bench. "Jenny, I don't know whether it is proper to ask your stepsister to be your wife or not," he began, "but that's a chance I']] have to take." Jennifer could only stare at him. She had given up ever hearing those words from Steve. "f don't know exactly what the future holds for me. I want to be a writer. Of course, I plan to hold down a job. I've been offered a teaching position at the university, and I would like to consider it. I think I can write the great American novel, but what writer doesn't, unrealistic as that dream may be? There may be some lean years for me, but Jenny, I would be the happiest man alive, and the proudest, if you would share them with me." Before Jennifer could utter any word of acceptance, which she was sure was in her eyes, he went on, "I love you, Jenny. I think I have for a very long time. I want you for my wife, for time and all eternity. I want you to have my children. You have had lots of experience with boys, and I would like a whole houseful." He grinned engagingly. "And Jenny, I need you." There was 426 sincerity in his voice, and she knew that his love for her was as pure as the spot where he had chosen to profess it. The word need struck her. He needed her and he loved her. What more could a woman ask? He had indicated that it might not be easy. She recalled vividly the whole phrase her mother had so often used: "Welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself, for then and only then can you grow and accomplish and be prepared to meet the next task which will take you beyond." He was humbly asking her to be his wife, to share the ups and downs. She recalled what her mother had said when she asked how she would know. There was no doubt. Her wildly beating heart told her the answer, even before her mind could, but both were in agreement. He didn't have Jim's self-assurance, and he wasn't promising her the world on a silver platter, but as she saw the diamond he held eagerly in his hand, she realized that Steve's self-confidence was of a different nature. He took nothing for granted, until he felt certain that things were right, and there was humility and concern for others in his attitude. This was the kind of assurance that would someday give him the world, or at least that portion which he earned and was meant to have. It would bring happiness to him and to others. And he had said that he needed her by his side. She sighed happily and whispered, "Oh, yes, Steve," as she extended her left hand to meet the ring, which was only the first step in binding them forever. — op we y Alice Robinson Holyoak, Parowan, Utah, says, ''I| always do lots of work to keep from being lonesome."' This work includes the piecing of more than two hundred quilt tops in recent years, designing and making scores of prize-winning hooked rugs, embroidered pillowcases, crocheted tablecloths, and many other lovely articles. Sister Holyoak is ninety-two years old. She has seven children, twenty-three grandchildren, and thirty great-grandchildren. For many years she walked four miles to attend Relief Society meetings and do visiting teaching. She does her own canning of fruits and vegetables, from her own vegetable garden. She raises chickens and sells eggs, and makes her own soap.. Oe nons& all <" Fone aso' a aft Ett ete a States at the age of nine. Gracing her home are many lovely articles of handwork, much of which she has done since turning ninety years old, six years ago. She is an expert quilter, and crochets and embroiders exquisitely, making tablecloths, doilies, and pillowcases. Her family of four children, seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren enjoy her lovely work in their homes, as do many other relatives and friends. She especially enjoys baking bread and cookies for her great-grandchildren. In Relief Society she has served in the presidency and as a devoted visiting teacher. 427 — SOUTH AFRICA Land of Gold and Green Caroline Eyring Miner, Member, General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association Transparencies by the author INTRODUCTION 2 South Africa is a land of gold and green, the gold referring to the tremendous output of gold, as well as the gold-colored mine dumps one encounters everywhere in Johannesburg as he first enters the Republic. The green refers to the grass-covered hills or veld so characteristic of much of this land. South Africa is located on the southern tip of the great continent of Africa, which hangs like a_pendant under Europe. TOPOGRAPHY AND CLIMATE The Republic of South Africa is a self-governing country composed of four provinces: Cape of Good Hope, Natal, the Orange Free State, and the Transvaal. In climate it compares to the Southern United States. The east, south, and west 428 of South Africa are bounded by the Indian and Atlantic Oceans which add to the beauty of this area. For the most part, the coastline is low lying and inhospitable and there are few ports or harbors. The country may be divided into an interior plateau, more than 4,000 feet above sea _ level, and the coastal region, which is the only area below an elevation of 1500 feet. The interior plateau, which occupies forty per cent of the area, consists of undulating plains and steep hills, barren or covered with brushwood. The eastern part of the country ls grasslands called veld, which is used for sheep grazing. This area is green in summer, which comes during the winter of the Northern Hemisphere, and dry in winter. Extensive areas in the west, such as the Kalahari, are semidesert. On the rim of the interior plateau are several peaks over 10,000 feet in elevation. Along the eastern coast, rainfall is adequate and part of Natal has an average of thirty-five to fifty inches of rain a year. December, January, and February are the warmest months. The Cape of Good Hope Province is the driest area and is the most healthful for white settlers, the altitude tempering the climate. INDUSTRIES Agriculture, mining, and manufacturing are the principal industries. Agriculture is hampered in parts where it is dry. Maize, wheat, and cotton are the main products. Citrus fruits and grapes, peaches, and apricots are grown in the Cape area. I was surprised to see oranges for sale everywhere in the outskirts of the cities we visited and inquired about them from the guide. In the northern part of the Republic, pineapples, papaws, mangos, and bananas are grown and we saw numerous great tea and sugar plantations, as well as some tobacco fields. We also visited some great vineyards and wineries that dated back to the beginning of the history of the country. Only half of the Republic is arable, or agriculture would be more extensive. Sheep are the most important domesticated animals and wool is exported. Ostrich farming is éxtensive and profitable. We saw great ostrich farms near Outshoorn, with as many as 8,000 birds to a farm. Raisers are able to sell and use everything pertaining to the birds, but the squack, we were told. The mineral resources are rich, varied, and extensive. The Transvaal region is generally regarded as the most highly mineralized portion of the earth's crust. South Africa produces more gold and diamonds than any other country in the world. South Africa—Land of Gold and Green GOVERNMENT AND HISTORY There are about nineteen million people in the Republic of South Africa. The two official languages are Afrikaans (a new language based on Dutch) and English. The earliest people were the Bushmen and Hottentots who mingled with the Bantu people to form the colored people of which there are well over a million. Only about one-fourth of the people are white and most of them are Dutch-German (Afrikaaners) or British. There are about a half million Indians from nearby India. Two thirds of the white population speak both English and Afrikaans. The rest of the people are the Bantu tribes. Two capitals are maintained to satisfy both the Dutch and the English elements in the nation. The legislative capital is Cape Town and the administrative capital ls Pretoria. South African law is based on Roman-Dutch law brought to the Cape in 1652. Western civilization came _ to southern Africa in 1652 when the Dutch East India Company established a provision station at Table Bay to provide fresh food for the fleet on the voyages between Holland and the East Indies, and later the French Huguenots came in 1688. The British settled in Port Elizabeth in 1820, and the German immigrants in 1859. The Indians came ito the area in 1860 settling in Natal. There are many prosperous professional people among this group today in Natal. The Bantu crossed the northern frontiers of what is today South Africa about the same time as the early pioneers were moving northward. 'There were many frontier wars between these groups in the 18th and 19th centuries, but each group retained the area where it had settled. Toward the end of the 15th cen- 429 June 1969 tury, Vasco da Gama opened up a sea route to India by sailing around the Cape of Good Hope, but for two centuries no attempt was made to occupy any territory. From 1652 to 1806 the colony, begun in 1652, thrived under the Dutch rule. In 1806, during the Napoleonic Wars, the British seized the area. In time this led to trouble, and the Boers (Dutch), rather than submit to the British, "trekked" in large numbers and formed the new republics of the Orange River and the Transvaal. The Orange River Province became The Orange Free State, but in 1900 it was declared a possession of the British Crown. The discovery of diamonds in 1867 brought many British into the Transvaal area and war resulted between the two groups, but the Boers were defeated and the Transvaal was annexed to the Union in 1910. NATURAL RESOURCES South Africa is not heavily forested, but acacia, wild olive, yellowwoods, blackwood, and black stinkwood are the principal trees growing there and they are used for furniture and carving of ornaments. The animal life of South Africa is noteworthy. All kinds of antelope, including the springbok, the national animal, are the most abundant. Lions, elephants, leopards, and cheetahs, hippopotami, wild or Cape buffaloes, giraffes, and zebras are protected and are at present in most parts of the Republic. There are many wild animal reserves in the country, the most famous of which is Kruger National Park. There are good hotels and motels in different areas of this extensive park that make one think of Yellowstone Park and its facilities. 430 TOURING THROUGH THE COUNTRY AND CITIES Many parts of South Africa remind me of the Salt Lake Valley. Both have great rugged mountainous areas with beautiful valleys in between. Both have a long history of pioneer hardship and both revere their pioneers and have erected monuments to them. It was something like a trip to Temple Square to go to Pretoria, the administrative capital of South Africa, and visit the Voortrekker Monument and its nearby museum. In the monument's rotunda are granite murals depicting the courageous pioneers of South Africa. In the museum across the street one finds also these same scenes worked in needlepoint in magnificent colors. Both are monuments to the devotion of the present citizens of South Africa, as well. In the city of Pretoria, itself, one views the Kruger Home where there are many mementos of early pioneer days. It was like a visit to the Lion House to visit there and view the household and _ working effects of Paul Kruger. In the city we also saw the magnificent zoo where wild animals of every description are housed. 'The House of Parliament is a magnificent structure, and the entire city is very clean and beautiful. Johannesburg was the city where our plane first landed in the Republic of South Africa and I remember most of all the many golden hills or mine dumps spread throughout the populous city of four million people. Johannesburg is the industrial, commercial, and mining center of South Africa. After several days' stay in Johannesburg viewing the sights, we took a fast train to Kimberley, the diamond center of the world. Here we saw all the activities involved in processing the diamond from the blue clay mining to the many-faceted jewel. We also visited the training farm where dogs are taught to protect the diamond fields. The Big Hole right in the city, fast filing with water, was a famous stop. We left Kimberley for Cape Town on the world-famous Blue Train, arriving in the early morning. The mountain scenery, green fields, and attractive farmsteads in the outskirts of this three-hundred-yearold city were very pleasing. This is called the Mother City of South Africa as well as the legislative capital, and we found the people unusually friendly and hospitable. I, particularly, shall never forget — the trip up Table Mountain to the north of the city. The wind was blowing a gale so most of the members of our tour stayed close to the lodge. I wanted to catch a view of the Indian Ocean, as well as the Atlantic, so I started out across the mountainous terrain, which was in reality solid rock gouged by wind and weather until it was very irregular. I did see the Indian Ocean and saw many beautiful flowers as well, so the hike was a great success for me. I did get left on the mountain, however, and caused the party to be delayed. For this I was sorry, but the views from that vantage point. Will be treasured all my life. We also enjoyed the flora and fauna indigenous to this area, including the protea, national flower of South Africa, which grows in countless varieties. From Cape Town we followed the Garden Route for three days through Paarl, Outshoorn, Port Elizabeth, and East London. Near Outshoorn we saw the huge ostrich farms and tried our luck at riding on the ostriches and learning of their strange culture. My father had owned a male ostrich and two females when I was a child, and I South Africa—Land of Gold and Green had known much about these big birds from that experience. The Transkei Territory, for natives only, mostly of the "redblanket" Xhosa tribe, was fascinating. These people build their mud and thatch huts high on the hills to catch the rays of the sun through the one door that must be to the east. This location is necessary even though the natives may have to carry the water from springs miles away down in the valleys. Here the scarlet aloes bloom for fences and for beauty as well. The last big stop in South Africa was in Durban, after we had viewed the Zulu dancers in Drummond. Durban is located on the beautiful eastern coast and is the resort city of South Africa. This harbor is one of the best of the relatively small number of port cities in all of Africa. Here is transplanted part of India since it is on the Indian Ocean, and these people have found many business opportunities here. One attraction for tourists here besides the beach is the riksha men who come right up to the good hotels to solicit business for their colorful vehicles. A tour of the harbor was enjoyable. This harbor handles more business than all the other ports in South Africa put together. CHURCH ACTIVITIES The story of the Church in South Africa is a long one, for it began with missionary activities in 1853. In 1864, the work was discontinued because of persecution, however, in 1903 the mission was reopened and has been active ever since. In 1921 the number of missionaries to be admitted to South Africa was set at twenty-five. It was ruled that applications for admission be submitted through the 431 June 1969 British Consular Authorities in America, and they were authorized to visa the necessary passports. The names of the persons selected were to be furnished to the High Commissioner for the Union in London. An undated memorandum states that the steamship fare over the Union-Castle Line from Southhampton to Cape Town second class was about fifty pounds, third class about twenty-five pounds. An elder upon arrival in South Africa was required to have thirty-five pounds landing money. It was suggested that an elder send ahead of him to Liverpool about sixty pounds. This amount would be deposited with the Union-Castle Line in London, with an order to draw the same on arrival at Cape Town. In April 1936 the quota of ' missionaries in South Africa was increased to thirty, and in March 1939, the quota was further increased to forty missionaries. At the present time the quota is sixty. The missionaries travel by air, usually, because of the value of time and the reasonableness of the fares. First president of the South African Mission was Warren H. Lyon, who served from 1903 to 1906. He was followed by Ralph A. Badger in 1906, and Brother Badger by Henry S. Steed in 1908. Eighteen presidents have been listed by the Church Missionary Committee as serving in South Africa, with Howard Carl Badger being the present president. He took office on March 22, 1967. Many prominent members of the Church have served as mission presidents in South Africa. A magnificent work has been and is being done and the saints there are very progressive. There are six districts in South Africa, with twenty-three branches, twenty having their own chapels. Although the membership is 432 small in some branches, that makes little difference to the earnestness and devotion of the Relief Society sisters or to their desire to carry out the full program of Relief Society. I was privileged to go to the Bulawayo Branch in Rhodesia and see the wonderful facilities of that beautiful new building. The branch members were working overtime to try to get the building paid for so that they could have it dedicated. We had spotted the building as we entered Bulawayo and nonmembers called it to our attention and commented on its beauty. In Johannesburg, the mission home is a beautiful and spacious mansion called '"Cumorah," on Fifth Avenue, Houghton, Johannesburg, South Africa. The yards surrounding this brick mansion are large and beautiful and it ls located in a good neighborhood. After going through the mission home we were taken to a baptismal meeting at which ten new members were brought into the Church, and it was a thrill to hear their testimonies. At the Church services the following day, we heard young people give excellent talks they had won awards on in the MIA Speech Festival. The talks were as good as any I have ever heard. How wonderful the gospel is! Four branches of the Church within the South African Mission are organized in four cities of Rhodesia: Bulawayo, Copperbelt, Midlands, and _ Salisbury. We visited in Bulawayo and Salisbury. In Rhodesia we went to see the remarkable sight of Victoria Falls, perhaps the most magnificent falls in the world. These are formed where the Zambezi River drops off a great fault. In a small plane we saw this remarkable sight from a dozen angles. The future of the Church in South Africa is promising. Victoria Falls on the Zambezi River, Rhodesia Flower-bordered Road Near Bulawayo, Rhodesia 0 "r as oa. A ee aN ee - e ON Te a ee ae eter raise StH Voortrekkers Monument in Pretoria, Administrative Capital of Republic of South Africa African Tulip Tree in Bloom Cape of Good Hope MATA uate Tropical Scene on Vaah.. The East Coast of \ Africa Groundbills in Kruger National Park Giraffe in Kruger National Park The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way a "The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way" was the theme for the Magazine department and Magazine display at the Annual General Relief Society conference, October 1968. A colorful mural depicting the theme showed sisters of the Church around the world joining hands in a common fellowship of understanding and purpose through the light of The Relief Society Magazine. The mural, painted by Irene Emigh, served as a background in the department, and was an interesting part of the display. "The Magazine Lights the Way for Relief Society Workers''—East Cache Stake—Mildred H. Himes, stake Relief Society president, Rachel M. Plaser, stake Magazine representative. Each pedestal represented a different program of Relief Society—all guided by light from The Relief Society Magazine. Four of these programs are pictured in addition to the entire display: Visiting Teaching, Nursery, Compassionate Service, and Singing Mothers. Five stakes and The Relief Society Magazine Editorial and Mailing Departments prepared table displays. Fourteen steps in the makeup of the Magazine "from manuscript to press" were shown in a display titled "High Lights of the Magazine." A background map indicated that more than 278,000 copies of the Magazine were mailed each month all over the world except to those countries behind the Iron Curtain. These "High Lights" helped the sisters viewing the display to understand and appreciate the careful planning, time, and attention to detail required by the dedicated individuals who prepare and mail the Magazine each month. (Continued on page 451) 439 The Nursery Compassionate es Service *. Visiting Teachers "The Magazine Lights the Way for the Spanish-Speaking Sisters." Mexico City Stake—Leona F. Wagner, stake Relief Society president, Ruth France, stake Magazine representative. Mural and artifacts of the South American people past and present, portraying the times of spiritual darkness and the blessings of the light of the gospel. On the right side can be seen Spanish sisters receiving The Relief Society Magazine in the Spanish language. —————> Singing Mothers 'The Magazine Lights the Way at Holiday Time."' Palo Alto Stake— Alice M. Jorgensen, stake Relief Society president, Elaine Tuttle, stake Magazine representative. Holiday ideas from the. Magazine arranged in lighted shadow boxes carried out the theme. 4 *; = € = a 2 Ea 4 The Art of Bread Clay Myrene T. Alvord, Homemaking Leader Lois L. Tanner, President East Phoenix Stake Relief Society 442 Transparency by J M. Heslop # One of the most exciting new mediums for Relief Society homemaking departments is the art of bread clay. Though we speak of it as new, actually its origin dates back several centuries into South America. Traditionally small figurines were ornately prepared as food offerings and placed on the graves of loved ones. Last summer, into the hands of our stake homemaking leader, Myrene Alvord, came three of these small figures with tiny flowers, scrolls, and fine lines of delicate handiwork. These had been brought to her as souvenirs from Ecuador. The women make them of bread, a type of mucilage, and color them with natural dyes. Though these figures had small flaws and cracks, Sister Alvord was intrigued with their china-like appearance and clear colors. She began ex- Bread clay flowers adorn the top of this lovely box perimenting and tried numerous processes and methods. But she was never fully satisfied until, through her own trials and many, many errors, she arrived at a nearly foolproof formula for bread clay devoid of cracks and the graininess that most bread clays seem to have. She has not found another recipe in exact proportions to her own. She uses more white glue along with her glycerin and lemon juice. The "feel" of the clay is very important. It must be fine enough to create a porcelain quality. She has worked her bread clay into many areas and uses. She feels that Rehef Society women can create not only lovely, lasting ornaments to wear and to enjoy in their homes, but tremendous, saleable ideas for bazaars and fairs—and at minimal cost. To mention just a few: jewelry (pins, earrings, bracelets), ornaments, decorated boxes, jewel boxes, candelabra, wall plaques, pictures, figurines, dolls, filigree, miniature fruits and flowers for decorative arrangements under glass. The only outward difference in the final product of ceramic china and Sister Alvord's bread clay is that china must be "fired," and in so doing the ceramic tends to lose its color to some extent. Not so with bread clay because Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Transparency by Dorothy Roberts — — i Unique Christmas card with bread clay face it is not painted or "fired," its color remains original. It has the ability to hold brilliant, vibrant color. When a ceramic piece is chipped, it shows the white ceramic under the glaze. If bread clay, which is as hard as china, is chipped, it is not so noticeable as the clay is colored through and through with the same color as its surface. The first and absolute rule, Sister Alvord says, in working at the art of bread clay is extreme cleanliness. Bread clay seems to have an incredible talent for picking up any grime or oil on hands, tools, or molds, so every piece of plastic or pencil or knife must be checked or there will be muddied colors or hard-set specks and lint in the finished product. (Continued on page 454) 443 Gardens in Portland, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Furness Fells, Coniston, England Transparency by Camera C lix + ots ag he, Candies of Excellens | Made by Ramona W. Cannon Dorothy J. Roberts s "I think Jerry would have married me sooner if he had known I have a grandmother with your culinary abilities,' wrote Ramona Cannon's granddaughter at Christmas, after receiving the cherished gift of her candies. Ramona's superb candies are good travelers. They go, packed in round fruit cake tins, to her waiting family in many parts of the country. Anyone who has ever tasted her candies will never forget, but long for more. They lend a final touch of elegance to any occasion. Ramona uses: A cool room, temperature under 70 degrees A 16-inch by 24-inch unpolished, unfinished marble slab she picked up at a marble company (some _ sources Transparencies by the author say formica will do) preferably placed by an open window. Be sure slab ts clean. A long-handled wooden spoon A 3%, quart, or larger, kettle. Ramona uses a medium heavy aluminum kettle. Some small, clean pieces of white cloth to wipe inside edge of kettle free of sugar crystals to prevent granulation (Continued on page 452) = One, two, three—on a spring day, I saw six times that many hummingbirds darting toward the feeder suspended on a tree, trying to give the brilliant, ruby-throated "king' the slip. A gold bird shone molten in flight; others, burnished green. Two or three grace notes of winged energy combined against the "king," chasing him away in midair, so a colleague might sip the sugary red nectar. The ruby-throat rested on a mullein tip, but remained constantly ready to drive every other sippers from the field. Once I had seen a pair of these airborne jewels, with bills crossed over their nested young, carolling an idyllic love song. In a flowering meadow, I had heard half a hundred hummingbirds in silvery fluted notes—music unforgettable. 446 Springtime ls for the Birds Claire Noall Transparencies by the author But, now, to my amusement, I found the ruby-throated hummingbird perfectly demonstrating the instinctive struggle for the survival of the fittest. Hummingbirds: one, two, three— nature's gift of jewelled flight to the watcher with a camera in his hand. "ADVICE TO A YOUNG ARTIST"' by Honoré Daumier National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. Gift of Duncan Phillips For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3—The Problem of Communication Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970—Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Commentary on page 450. a. Ek?) wee "THE GIRL IN WHITE" by Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919) American Brigham Young University Collection, Provo, Utah For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 2—The Role of Education Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969—Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Commentary on opposite page. 448 Transparency by J M. Heslop "THE GIRL IN WHITE"' By Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919) American Brigham Young University Collection, Provo, Utah Painting on opposite page Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 2—The Role of Education Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 "Whom do we need more, or who should be more profoundly honored, than a man of complete integrity?" This is the first sentence of the foreword of the Life and Letters of J. Alden Weir, compiled by Dorothy W. Young. Every sincere painting by an accomplished artist is essentially a selfportrait, a portrait of his complete personality. Just as we seem to be drawn to some people more than to others, so are we drawn to some works of art. While reading about the life of this man and studying his paintings, one becomes acutely aware of the truism that his art and personality are compounded and inseparable. "And by their works you shall know them." (D&C 18:38.) If the above statement is true, then a description of the artist would resemble a description of his work. Study "The Girl in White" and see if you can see how the artist identified himself with his work as you read the following statements about the man taken from the comments of Duncan Phillips, a friend who knew him well: 1. He has the capacity to make us feel that ordinary human experiences are desirable and delightful, that the world is full of places and people worth knowing. He was a man of charm, nobility, and taste. He sought to tell the truth of the matter. There was no sham nor pretense. "He could see distinction in an apparently ordinary model, and make us see what he had seemed to like and admire." A close study of "The Girl in White," then, provides a rewarding educational experience in that one learns about the personality and tastes of the artist. To the more casual observer, however, the picture represents an educational experience on another level—the experience of a lovely child involved in the beauty and wonders of nature. J. Alden Weir enjoyed the beautiful in life. It became an integral part of him. He also found a technique peculiar to him by which he could pass this on to us in the form of his paintings; a technique which harmonized with his personality and his special way of seeing. Such men of integrity and character play an important role in our education. As John Ruskin says, "The object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things but enjoy them." Se 449 "ADVICE TO A YOUNG ARTIST" By Honoré Daumier National Gallery of Art, Washington D. C. - Gift of Duncan Phillips Painting on page 447 Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3 - The Problem of Communication Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Honoré Daumier at the age of seven decided to be an artist. To gain background for his chosen field, he frequented the poorer quarters of Paris and haunted the corridors of the Louvre. He studied Rembrandt and Michelangelo, nature, and the manners and customs of his period. Although he is better known as a lithographer and political cartoonist, it has been said that he was one of the greatest painters of the 19th Century. Daumier expressed very deep feelings in a spirit of satire and ridicule. His caricatures are without hatred or spite, although they are biting. There is a direct simplicity in the expressions of what he saw and felt. All of his work has social significance. His art was and still is a very direct means of communication of ideas, a universal language. Artists today use art for propaganda purposes just as Daumier did in his time. The painting, "Advice to a Young Artist," is perhaps more mild than many of his works. This is not a portrait of any two particular people but more a generalization of a typical situation in the world of work. We all learn from others who go before us, especially if they are willing to share their knowledge with us. In this very commonplace idea, expressed in a simple, earthy manner, one senses a certain kinship between the artist and the common working man, a certain reality that makes the commonplace beautiful when stripped to the bare essentials. None of his works is pretty. All tinsel and glitter have been left out and only simple truth remains. Perhaps this is why many have placed Daumier in the school of realism. All of his works, full of compassion for the downtrodden, are attempts at communicating the unvarnished truth as he saw it. As in all great art, Daumier in his work gives us not merely a photographic likeness of his subject but an interpretation of it in which he communicates what he knows, thinks, and feels. Om JUNE NIGHT Five red roses climbing a stem, Daisies cushioned below: How did he know that he placed them for me To capture the spirit's glow? The moon shining full through a paradise tree— Bid for a lover's kiss— And | shall return in my memory's way When he has forgotten this. —Beulah Huish Sadleir 450 "THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LIGHTS THE WAY" (Continued from page 439) "The Magazine Lights the Way for Relief Society Workers" was the subject of the display by the East Cache Stake Relief Society. Pedestals, sprayed with gold, were arranged on a green cloth. On each pedestal a different facet of Relief Society work was represented. At the back of the display was an enlarged colored copy of the cover of the June 1968 Magazine with the theme of the display above it. Four of these Relief Society activities, lighted by instruction from the Magazine, are pictured, as well as the complete display: Singing Mothers, Compassionate Service, Nursery, and Visiting Teaching. Many articles, ideas, and pictures appearing in the Magazine are directed toward activities for special occasions. Some of these ideas were selected from the Magazine, made up, and displayed through the use of lighted shadow boxes by the Palo Alto Stake in their display which emphasized how "The Magazine Lights the Way at Holiday Time." The boxes contained a candy house, miniature stove with "kuchen" recipes, antiqued Magazine pictures and Christmas ornaments and decorations. A lighted lamppost at one side of the boxes was papered with Relief Society Magazine covers. The Magazines from which the ideas were taken were placed above the display. How the Spanish-speaking sisters are benefitting through the Spanish language Magazine was the subject of another display, "The Magazine Lights the Way for the Spanish-Speaking Sisters." (The sisters had waited many years for the Magazine to be printed in their language.) The Mexico City Stake, through their beautiful mural and artifacts of the South American, people depicted graphically the times of darkness before the restoration of the gospel, and the present time when the light of the gospel is a part of their lives. Scrolls containing scripture passages, placed on either side of the table with the mural and Mexican artifacts, emphasized the difference in the condition of the people in times of darkness and light. One section of the mural showed the Spanish-speaking sisters using the Spanish language Relief Society Magazine. Taylor Stake (Canada) under the direction of Vinessa T. Hamilton, stake Relief Society president, and Lauretta S. Dahl, stake Magazine representative, arranged a display (not pictured) which consisted of a large white panel on which was painted a double door. Under the door were the words "Through the Relief Society Magazine." Gold letters on white nylon curtains draped above and behind the door formed the words "Keys to Eternal Life." On steps leading to the door were five gold key rings, each holding a set of golden keys. On each key ring was the name of one of the courses of study for Relief Society, and on the blue satin folds of the table cover were Relief Society Magazines. To help wards and stakes preserve their Relief Society Magazines at little cost, and to encourage sisters who wish to bind their Magazines, the Rose Park Stake, under the direction of Stake Relief Society President Francis Holtry and stake Magazine representative Doris Hensler, explained and demonstrated different methods of preserving and binding the Magazine. In addition to the table displays, original Magazine posters from a number of the stakes where every ward in the stake achieved 100 per cent or more in their Magazine subscriptions, were on display. As the sisters of the Church around the world join hands in a common fellowship of understanding and purpose through the light of The Relief Society Magazine, this medium of communication will help to inform, instruct, inspire, and unify. It will light the way to understanding, sisterhood, opportunity for service and self-development, to stronger testimonies of the gospel, and to happier homes. 451 June 1969 CANDIES OF EXCELLENCE (continued from page 445) A candy thermometer, for those who prefer a thermometer for testing. Remember that recipes give sea-level temperatures. To adjust these temperatures to your own altitude, put a thermometer in a pan of water, and bring to a boil. Record the temperature. Sea-level boiling temperature is 212° F. So, subtract your boiling temperature from the sea-level boiling temperature. The difference might be two, ten, twelve, or more degrees. Then subtract that number of degrees from the recipe temperature. If, as in Salt Lake City, for example, the difference is twelve degrees; the sea-level temperature for the soft ball stage is 236°; therefore the candy will be done at 224°. At sea level caramels are done at 246°. In Salt Lake City, where the difference is 12°, they are done at 234°. CREAM CENTERS FOR CHOCOLATES 1 pint fresh whipping cream 4 c. White granulated sugar 1 tsp. Pure vanilla Add cream to sugar in a kettle and stir well. Then, with a cloth wrung from hot water, wipe off the inside of the kettle down to the candy line. Remove spoon and boil over medium heat or less. Important: Mixture must not be stirred during the heating and cooking process, but wipe the inside of the kettle with a cloth three times, down to the candy line, holding the kettle still. Let cook to very soft ball stage 20-30 minutes); test by dropping a bit into a cup of ice cold water. When this can be gathered into a small ball and rolled between thumb and finger under cold water, without adhering to fingers, it is done. Slowly pour a thin stream of candy, outlining the edges of the cold slab, to prevent candy from running off the slab. Then pour the candy slowly from the center to the edge. If it runs off in your first efforts, do not touch tt; let all candy stand untouched until completely cool. Push it into the center of the slab with a long knife. Then use a long wooden spoon, clean and dry, to beat the candy. 452 Never scrape the kettle at all! Scraping causes granulation. If the candy grains, add \, cup cream, stir well; reboil. Add a teaspoon of pure vanilla; it must be the pure vanilla as this is one secret of the flavor. Beat and beat, under the partly opened window, until the candy is creamy and firm; then knead as you would bread, for a minute or two. Divide the candy into three parts. (Yield: 60-70 chocolates) VARIETIES OF CREAM CENTERS Plain Centers Mold the first part into round balls, the size of chocolate centers, by rolling between the palms at an open window, for the plain creams. Place these on wax paper on plates under open window or in refrigerator. Let stand two hours to form a slight crust before dipping in chocolate. After an hour these balls may be shaped into greater symmetry by very quickly rolling between the palms again. Then let stand. Coconut Centers To the second part, add two thirds of a 3¥,-ounce can of choice coconut flakes. Mix and prepare as in part one. Nut Centers To the third part, add as many broken pecans as desired. Prepare centers as previously directed. If covered these centers can stand in the refrigerator a day or so before dipping. CHOCOLATE DIP 5 squares bitter chocolate 4 squares semi-sweet chocolate Use only a few squares at a time, as the leftover mixture should not be re-heated another day for dipping, but used for other things. Melt in a bowl over hot, not quite boiling, water. Lift off burner, and allow to cool for about 2 minutes. Centers must be cold when dipped, and room must be cool. It is said to take two years to make a good chocolate dipper so don't be discouraged if you don't achieve a professional look at first. Use a fork and quickly dip the ie 2 SED chocolate, or roll in chocolate in the palm of the hand. Then set it on waxed paper. When chocolates are hard, trim off the uneven edges at the base of each. Store in fluted chocolate cups in covered tin containers in the refrigerator. MINT FUDGE CENTERS 1 pint fresh whipping cream 4 c. White granulated sugar 1 square bitter chocolate, shaved and mixed in before putting on the burner (homogenizes during beating) 1%, scant tsp. Mint flavor added after candy has cooled on the slab, also 1 tsp. Vanilla. Proceed as for cream centers above, only flatten the balls before cooling. Then dip if desired. All cream centers are attractive plain, with a half pecan pressed into the top. RAW SUGAR CREAMS 1 pint fresh whipping cream 1 quart raw sugar 1 tsp. Pure vanilla, added after candy is cold Follow directions for cream centers. These are particularly nice undipped with an almond half on top. PANOCHA CREAMS 1/%, c. Brown sugar, firmly packed 2', c. White sugar 1 pint whipping cream 1 tsp. Pure vanilla, added when cool Make as other creams. PECAN ROLLS Plain cream center, prepared as directed /, lb. Fresh butter 1 c. Evaporated milk 1 c. Half-and-half cream 2 c. White sugar 2 c. White syrup Stir sugar and syrup together and bring to a rolling boil; cook over quite high heat stirring constantly with a long wooden spoon. Add _ the evaporated milk, cream, and butter alternately while syrup is boiling. Candy must be stirred constantly, until it forms a firm ball in cold water, like finished caramels. Pour into a large, buttered platter or cookie sheet and let stand until partly cool but still pliable. Have pecan halves or pieces scattered on a large piece of waxed paper. Plan on about 12-inch long rolls. Take one half of caramel and press out into the nuts. Then take a cream center roll 12 inches long, and 1-inch thick, shaped two hours before, and place in the middle of the flattened caramel pieces. Roll caramel around cream center, pinching the edges together. If some nuts fail to adhere to the caramel outside, use a little maple syrup as adherent. Let stand several hours to cool. This roll can be sliced into pieces and wrapped in the thin plastic wrap. Keep all candies in covered tin boxes in the refrigerator. Good luck! 453 June 1969 THE ART OF BREAD CLAY (Continued from page 443) Materials needed Plastic sheets, about the weight of a light shower curtain, to work on, to roll clay on, to cover clay when it is pressed out Box of rounded toothpicks Manicure scissors Paints: opaque fluorescent water colors; water colors in tubes—for painting on faces also. Ceramic tools: not a necessity, but a joy to work with in bread' clay—rose cutting set, small sharp ceramic knife, wooden shapers and metal curved tools. However, toothpicks, clean new pencils with eraser tops, tinkertoys with rounded points, tiny cookie cutters, very small sharp knives can be just as effective if you are imaginative and handy. Molds: lovely filigrees, faces, and shapes. Bread clay is marvelous in molds as it takes sharp, clean images quickly. Be sure you "roll" clay into molds and watch that you do not trap air bubbles. Small glue gun: excellent for use as decorator for fine lines, scrolls, and intricate designs. Fill the gun with the special mixture of bread clay. Add additional glue and mix in your hands until consistency of soft icing used for frosting a cake. Pack it into gun, pushing out air bubbles. (It is convenient to have several colors and guns filled and ready for use.) Brushes: very small, for painting faces; larger, soft ones for applying glaze Aluminum foil: for placing bread clay articles on after applying glaze "Joli" glaze (Sister Alvord has found nothing else to give equal finish) or clear varnish. HOW TO MAKE BREAD CLAY Do not be afraid to mix what may look to you to be a very large batch. To mix and color is very time consuming, but, if properly packaged and cared for, the clay will remain usable for many months. Recipe 1 and ¥, lb. Loaves of white sandwich bread 2 scant c. Of any good white glue 1 scant tbsp. Glycerin VY, tsp. Fresh lemon juice Tear away all crust from bread, but leave as much of the white as possible, and break into small pieces. Add white glue, glycerin, and lemon juice. Stir as thoroughly as possible with a spoon then divide into two parts. Take one up into your clean dry hands. Kneading and Pulling Begin kneading and pulling as you would taffy candy. Do not become discouraged at texture and stickiness, but keep pulling and kneading. After about 15 minutes the clay will almost magically begin to adhere and change into a smooth, soft clay. Keep at it until it reaches a uniform, easy texture. Lay the first part aside and begin the same process with the second part. When both are of the same smooth clay stage, put them together, pull and knead until thoroughly mixed. Drop hard, several times, on a clean counter or board to knock out air bubbles and to even up the texture. Caution: Sister Alvord has tried to come to an infallible formula for her bread clay but she cannot know how your climate or atmosphere will affect it. You may find that you will need to leave out 1 or 2 tablespoons of glue (no more, ever!). But before you decide it is too "wet," knead it and pull it to expose it to the air. Let it ripen overnight in your refrigerator (in plastic) before you decide the texture is wrong. 454 The Art of Bread Clay Coloring Sister Alvord suggests that you do all the coloring at one uninterrupted session. This way, you will have all the colors you will need, mixed and ready for months to come. She uses only opaque fluorescent water colors. Shocking turquoise, pink, brilliant orange, vivid yellow, chartreuse, greens, blues, etc., of the brightest colors she can find. These usually come in jars. You will also want black, brown, white (these are tube water colors) and flesh (a mixture of yellow, ochre and a small amount of pink). Be sure to leave some clay uncolored. You will want to variate your colors and you can get into the pastels by using uncolored clay with a speck of the deepest colored clay and work up to desired shade. Divide your prepared bread clay into eight, ten, twelve or as many colors and variations as you would like. (Keep the clay you are not working with clean and covered with plastic.) Using a toothpick, dip into color selected, wipe it across the clay and begin the pulling and kneading process again. Keep adding color in this manner until you reach the stage of deepest color you wish. Knead until all streaks are gone. Be very careful not to leave any color from your hands on uncolored clay that you are planning for other colors, this is what kills the clear colors. Wash hands thoroughly between colorings as the clay will absorb any color stain. When you have all your coloring finished and have placed each color separately in a small plastic sandwich bag, pack them in a cake or cookie tin with a very tight lid and store in your refrigerator. As you work with your clay, remember at all times to keep it covered in plastic as it dries out quickly. Making Flowers To begin, Sister Alvord urges that you make up a good supply of flowers in varying sizes, kinds and colors before you plan for a definite project. With them on hand, your creativity can have more vision. For creating the tiny flowers (all varieties and roses) that are not more than Ye to '/, inch across that Sister Alvord uses in so many of her jewelry pieces, decorative boxes and arrangements under glass—are the following instructions: ROSES Use 3 shades of color. Center should be deepest, and shade out lighter to edge of rose. Sister Alvord makes up all her centers first—often three dozen or so at a time. You will want to start with fewer as the clay dries out so quickly. You will find as you practice you will increase in speed and dexterity. Sister Alvord prefers her centers to be completely dry before building out her petals. It gives a good firm base for the rose. Centers are made by pinching off pieces of clay about half the size of a garden pea. (Or larger if you are making larger roses.) Roll quickly into a small ball between your fingers and drop onto plastic sheet. When you have sufficient to give you a challenge, roll and rub each little ball at one end to pull it into a tear-shape. (With a finger.) Place another piece of plastic sheet over your centers and press each with your finger or any object with a smooth, flat surface. Press them '""paperthin."' Keeping the others covered as best you can, "peel" off a center and beginning with the broad end of the tear drop, roll around a toothpick a little way down so that as you roll it around, you barely cover the tip. Roll it as the tight center of a rose and pinch a little at the bottom so it will stay on the pick. Lay it aside to dry and continue to roll all centers the same. Attention: This tear shape process is the same way Sister Alvord makes her leaves, large and small, except for the last step. LEAVES After pressing "'paper-thin," peel off leaf and with cutting tool or small knife, indent down center. Pinch at broad end of leaf. This is the end to attach to the base. Curve up sides and end as a natural leaf. 455 June 1969 ROSE PETALS Petals should be about the same size as the centers. Begin by pinching off again small bits of clay and rolling round between your fingers and dropping to plastic sheet. When you feel you have all you can finish before they dry out, cover with plastic sheet and press again to paper-thin. The petals will all come out fairly round. Pick up a dried rose center, still on the toothpick. With another toothpick, dab a litfle white glue at the base of your center. Peel a paper-thin petal from plastic sheet and begin wrapping and overlapping your center and petal. You will not need to add more glue as you will be working again with pliable clay. Pinch your petals towards the back as a natural flower. (Go out and pick one for your model.) Remember, roses are not all of the same shape or variety of shading. Ripples and even small tears are as attractive as on live flowers. Wrap and pinch until you have a small full rose or bud. Before your rose (or any of these clay flowers) completely dries, carefully remove from toothpick and turn it upside down and gently place tip of pick into flower center. Now, with small scissors, snip off bottom of flower to give it a flat base to glue to surface you are to decorate. (For some flower arrangements or flower trees, this step is unnecessary.) Daisy, poppy, pansy—any 3, 4, or 5-petaled flower (imagination please! ): Make balls of bread clay between your fingers, drop on plastic, and roll and rub ends as you did for leaves and centers, into teardrops, except, do not flatten or press these, but place together all tip ends of teardrops as base of the flower and pinch a little. Using toothpick or other wooden tools, roll carefully each petal out on your finger as flower petal, leaving indentions or ridges as you desire and as thin as you can or, shaped as you want. Bend and curve them a little here and. There to give them a natural look. Centers for these can be very small balls of complimentary colors or a dab of colored clay from one of your glue guns. BREAD CLAY PLAQUES AND FIGURES For making specific designs for plaques and flat figures with a pattern, roll out a portion of the clay between plastic sheets with a small even bottle to about the thickness of pie crust. Place the pattern on the clay and cut around with either a ceramic knife or small very sharp knife. Peel off, and place on prepared plaque or picture. (A burlap covered board, painted and trimmed with cording, gold or silver doilie edging is very attractive.) Choose next color of clay and pattern, roll and cut, placing figure or design together color by color and piece by piece—a little like dressing a paper doll. Tiny fine lines, swirls, and decorations can be made by using the glue gun as you would decorate a cake. Finishing touches, of course, are done when the clay is completely dry, painting faces with tube water colors and a very small, fine brush. For all your creations, flowers, leaves, plaques, dolls, decorative pieces, etc., when completely dry, use a soft brush and apply a coat of glaze. Place on the aluminum foil to dry. Oa FREEDOM > Always My mind escapes, If it will, though | may Be fettered and bound. It travels Far, far. S —Vesta i 456 HEART ROOM FOR HOME (Continued from page 417) his youth, worked his faithful way up through the priesthood, been a bishop, a high councilman, a stake president, and a patriarch in his stake? "Something has to be decided," Emily had pronounced. "Right today." Before you leave for Los Angeles," Francine put in. "You can see that Dad can't take care of himself," Emily went on. "And I have stated my position. It isn't the way I want it. I would like nothing better than to take him home and care for him, but Victor." "You can see my position," echoed Francine. "I work. I have to work with Melanie's whole family there. Her husband is good, and doing his best to get a place for them, but it fills the house up, and now Melanie's baby is due. Besides, Jack's not well. He keeps on his job, but he is the one who needs special ' care." "IT don't want to be a bother," said Dad weakly. "When I get well." "The place has to be sold," said Emily firmly. Looking at it without sentiment, Emily was right. Even if Dad did walk again, as the doctor had promised, there was too much work here for him ever to do again. He had stayed doggedly on after his beloved wife passed 'away suddenly of a heart attack, milking his one cow, tending a few chickens and puttering in his garden, living off the proceeds of an earlier farm which he had sold, and cooking his own simple meals, with the girls fussing over him, keeping the house clean, bottling his fruit and bringing him treats from their own tables. How could it be looked on without sentiment? As long as he had this place he had her, her crochet work and her dishes, her braided. Rugs and the quilts she. Had made. "She would have wanted it this way," he had told them. He always spoke of Mother Freeman only as "she." "She planted that cherry tree; she grew those roses from the corsages the boys brought Emily and Francine." He honored her as Jacob honored Rachel; the spring was a Jacob's well at which he wept for his lost companion as Jacob wept for Rachel. And Rachel-was_ her name. A warm woman, full of compassion, outgoing in her love: This home was her shrine. There was more than sentimentality involved here now. There was obligation, deep obligation. This home had been a mother island from which their little boats cast off to ride the storm of their independence, returning on every tide—not only Mary Ann's and Kim's, but his sisters, too—until they were strong enough to cope with the seas of their new responsibilities, always bolstered, of course, with help from home, their cars loaded with vegetables and fruit, the nudge of a little check when vacation money ran out, or a new home called for a down payment. "Dory Works would pay ten thousand cash for this place right today," Francine had said. "Dory Works," Dad said impotently, in despair, "Dory Works would strip this place of every item of beauty in short order, and have the front yard filled 457 June 1969 with broken down cars." "T'll tell you, Dad," said Kim, turning his back on his sisters and kneeling beside his father's wheel chair, "This place won't be sold. Never, not while you live, and not while I live. Come home with Mary Ann and me. Just for now." A surge of pride in Kim had swept Mary Ann. Instantly she was on the other side of the wheel chair, her arms around Kim's father. "Yes, Dad. Come home with us—just for now!" "You have your work, too," objected Francine in the background. "Til quit my job," said Mary Ann recklessly. "How can you, with Rosemary getting married—Tommy graduating? You said." "We'll work it out," said Kim. "But I can't let you." Father Freeman had begun. "T don't like my job anyway," said Mary Ann, trying to make it easy for Father Freeman. "You don't know how I've longed to stay at home, be a decent homemaker for a change." Kim's hand had found hers, and he pressed it, the objections of his sisters rumbling away in the far distance like subsiding thunder. "The crops are in, Dad. There's nothing much to do here In winter, and by spring." "By spring I can come home!" his father had said gratefully. Kim had not promised, Mary Ann remembered, and neither had she. How could they? They had told each other in the night hours that maybe they could wean him away from his home, make him really enjoy 458 California living, but both knew this hope for what it was, a palliative to their own conscience. Now the full force of their emotional commitment and spoken promise hit them, as Kim jostled for position to exit from the freeway onto their own boulevard. "Where are we?" asked Father Freeman, rousing from the back of the station wagon. "My, what a long sleep I had!" "Almost home, Dad," said Kim cheerfully. The tranquilizers and the pain pills had served his father well. Mary Ann braced herself to meet Tommy and Rosemary as they turned into their own driveway. Tommy, grinning his welcome, leaped to help with his Grandfather and the wheelchair. "Gramps! Why didn't you make these characters fly you down?" His flip words covered an instant concern, and Mary Ann loved him for it. "Grandfather! Who knew you were coming!" asked Rosemary, after the slightest of hesitations. If she was shocked she covered it admirably. "What a surprise! Now I know why I got such a special dinner ready. Dad, why didn't you call me from San Bernardino and I would have put another spoonful of grease in the gravy,' she went on, reviving an old family cliché when unexpected company was on the doorstep. Maybe only her mother saw the unanswered questions chasing back of her eyes, noticed the little frown which fleetingly creased her brows and sensed the gathering storm. (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities MBH. 4 '5 wm! CHICAGO STAKE (ILLINOIS), NORTH SHORE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS WIFE OF NEWLY APPOINTED SECRETARY OF THE a January 14, 1969 Front row, left to right: Lenora Kennedy, visiting teacher message leader, North Shore Ward Relief Society, and wife of David Kennedy, Secretary of the Treasury, United States Government; Donna Smith, President North Shore Ward Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Carol Whittle and Barbra Law (social relations class leader), Kennedy daughters; Nedra Hardy, Second Counselor. Jasmine R. Edmunds, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Sisters of the North Shore Ward Relief Society of our stake honored Sister Lenora Kennedy prior to her leaving for Washington D. C. Where her husband would assume the duties of Secretary of the Treasury in the United States Government. "Sister Kennedy had served as visiting teacher message leader and was an active member of Relief Society. At the program and luncheon in her honor, she was presented with a book entitled, Evidences of Washington, which was signed by all of the Relief Society sisters."' 459 June 1969 GRANTSVILLE STAKE (UTAH) HOLDS OPEN HOUSE December 7, 1968 Elba H. Brown, President, Grantsville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A lovely display created by Olive Western, stake Magazine representative; Jean Palmer, Clark Ward Magazine representative; and Mable Wootton, Grantsville First Ward Magazine representative, was interesting, artistic, and informative at the open house held in our stake. "The theme of the display was 'The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way.' Only part of the display is pictured. Food was displayed made from recipes in the December 1968 issue of The Relief Society Magazine." -=<sssss BRAZILIAN SOUTH MISSION VISITED BY MEMBERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND PRIMARY GENERAL BOARDS November 21, 1968 Left to right: Nedra Strong, member, Primary General Board; Dulce Heuser, First Counselor, Mission Relief Society Board; Sherma A. Jensen, Supervisor, Brazilian South Mission Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, President, General Board of Relief Society; Leanor J. Brown, member, General Board of Relief Society; Jany Deljaux, President, Mission Relief Society Board; Clarinda Bortoletto, Secretary-Treasurer; Maria Kunz, visiting teacher message leader; Aracy Duarte, Second Counselor. Sister Jensen reports: ''It was a blessing to the Relief Society sisters to have President Spafford and Sister Leanor J. Brown of the General Board of Relief Society visit Our mission headquarters in Pérto Alegre, Rio Grande Do Sul, Brazil. "Although their visit was limited to mission headquarters, their influence has been felt throughout the forty branches and ten member districts of the mission. The mission board members are devoted to Relief Society and work with much love and harmony."' C0 TAYLORSVILLE WEST STAKE (UTAH), TAYLORSVILLE SIXTH WARD PRESENTS BAZAAR, December 6, 1969 Left to right: Virginia White, Second Counselor, Taylorsville Sixth Ward Relief Society; Geraldine Sorenson, First Counselor; Louise North, President. Maryilyn Coats, President, Taylorsville West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Taylorsville Sixth Ward of our stake presented a gala bazaar which was enjoyed by many. The evening began with a delicious dinner. The theme of the evening was 'Christmas Gifts and Goodies,' which was carried throughout the displays, the bazaar items, and the table decorations. "The sisters were earnest and enthusiastic in the year's preparation and planning that, went into this lovely affair." 460 SSS a a June 1969 PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON), PORTLAND TWELFTH WARD PRESENTS A CHRISTMAS LUNCHEON, December 11, 1968 Left to right: Norma Marshall, Secretary-Treasurer, Portland Twelfth Ward Relief Society; Clarine Birch, President; Jean Vernon, homemaking leader; Diana Swanson, Homemaking Counselor; Bonieta Deppe, Education Counselor; Sonoma Y. Toolson, cultural refinement class leader. Helen T. Randall, President, Portland Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Portland Twelfth Ward of our stake held a very successful luncheon during the Christmas season. The large attendance was made up of young mothers, elderly sisters, and many 'shut-ins.' "The luncheon was prepared from traditional recipes, and was not only delicious, but attractively presented. The lovely pink table decorations were done by Sister Sonoma Y. Toolson."' EIGHT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY STAKES FORM RELIEF SOCIETY ''SINGING SISTERS" CHORUS TO SING AT FIRESIDE, March 2, 1969 Edwin J. Butterworth, director of public relations, Brigham Young University, reports: 'Sisters from each of the eight stakes on campus combined to form a 'Singing Sisters' chorus to sing at a combined stakes fireside, in honor of the 127th birthday of Relie Society, March 17. Conductor for the group was Judy Barton, and the organist was Beth Walker. The 300 sisters dressed in dark skirts and white blouses for the occasion. They sang 'Lift Thine Eyes to the Mountains' and 'Now the Day Is Over.''' a a a a ae a ee a age: aD a a REXBURG STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS ''CHRISTMAS FAIR,'' December 7, 1968 Officers of the Rexburg Stake Relief Society Board, front row, left to right: Raya Lewis, homemaking leader; Leona Flamm, Magazine representative; LaMarr Davidson, Homemaking Counselor; Cleo Johnson, President; Fern Smith, Education Counselor; Lela McCulloch, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, left to right: Lucille Ricks, spiritual living class leader; Rama Griffeth, social relations class leader; Geraldine Jacobs, cultural refinement class leader; Nina Wilkins, chorister; Carol Barrus, organist; Trieste Robison, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Johnson reports: ''We held a Christmas Fair in conjunction with our monthly leadership meeting. The leadership meeting was held in the morning, and in the afternoon and evening, the fair was open to the public—a lovely way to acquaint the people of the stake with Relief Society activities. ''Each ward decorated a Christmas tree, prepared a holiday table setting, and featured a display of arts and crafts. In one end of the cultural hall was a nativity scene. In another corner a large replica of The Relief Society Magazine tied with bows served as a gift idea. "We felt that this was a most successful event, and acquainted many people with the Relief Society program."' 462 SST SERN n> SS gD "@, XX « > 28 hm b ~~ Ff te % ' ~e. Eo, Py +. B. BS $f g ° i by ' * ' J 1 ); = *; " | ——, ¥ PHOENIX WEST STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD VISITS DESERET INDUSTRIES AND PRESENTS A FASHION SHOW, January 24, 1969 Officers of the Phoenix West Stake Relief Society, left to right: Helen R. Macdonald, chorister; Marjorie Y. Bills, spiritual living class leader; Havana S. May, visiting teacher message leader; Ruth K. Winsor, cultural refinement class leader; Ida C. King, Secretary-Treasurer; Alice M. Foutz, Homemaking Counselor; Irma R. Harris, homemaking leader: Barbara B. Brown, social relations class leader; Millicent K. Winsor, President; Rae D. Levie, Magazine representative; Julia W. Riggs, Education Counselor. Sister Winsor reports: ''Members of the stake Relief Society board recently visited the Deseret Industries in our area, and each member purchased an article of clothing. After a few alterations, the clothing was ready to be modeled at a fashion show presented at leadership meeting. "Each sister modeled her dress and told how much it cost. The total cost of the dresses modeled in the picture was $8.96. A special song, written by Millicent K. Winsor, dedicated to Deseret Industries, was sung by the board members. "This same program was presented at the next stake welfare meeting where it was received with much enthusiasm. Ward officers were encouraged to return to their wards and hold similar fashion shows at homemaking meetings to stimulate sales at the Deseret Industries." 464 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 12—Garden Convenience and Safety Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1969 Southern Hemisphere: February 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show how carefully planned gardens and grounds and careful use and storage of tools can contribute to the convenience and safety of outdoor INTRODUCTION Just as we do not want to be slaves inside our homes with constant sweeping, dusting, and doing dishes, just so we do not want to burden ourselves outside with excessive lawn mowing, weeding and watering. To avoid making ourselves slaves to either, wise and careful planning is necessary. In the grounds as in the house we are concerned with modifying or controlling the environment so that it is convenient to our needs and easy to maintain and so that it provides safe and _ peaceful shelter to our families. One garden enthusiast has said that the best life and the best gardens are made up of a wise combination of beauty and utility, convenience and safety. All of these considerations augliving. Ment each other, and when the garden is planned with them in mind, the results are pleasing and satisfying. HOW MAY WE ACHIEVE A CONVENIENT GARDEN ENVIRONMENT FOR' OUR HOMES? The following suggestions may help us in planning our surroundings for convenience. 1. The front yard should provide a pleasant setting that relates the building to the grounds and furnishes easy access to both. Facilities and space should be _ provided for comfortable outdoor living. The habit of eating out of doors in the cool of the summer mornings and evenings is one which is being widely practiced and which should be highly encouraged. A. When possible, the garden living areas should be placed so as to take advantage of the greatest number of hours for garden living. To 465 June 1969 D. B. If possible, the garden living area should be furnished with places to sit, read, play, or dine. There should be space provided for outdoor recreation with emphasis on children's activities. This will draw family members closer together, away from the television set, the public movie, or questionable sources of entertainment. The service area could be designed to fit the habits and needs of the family and organized and located so as to occupy a minimum of space. When space permits, flowers, fruits and vegetables are welcome additions to the garden. Tomato plants, fruit vines and even espaliered fruit-bearing trees can be trained to the propertyline fences and walls. HOW CAN WE PROMOTE SAFETY IN OUR GARDEN SURROUNDINGS? 1. We should be alert ourselves to all possible hazards on our property and remove them. We should keep the premises clear of rubbish and trash, dry grass and weeds and any other useless material. We should keep firefighting equipment handy and be sure the garden hose has a suitable connection to both inside and outside faucets. Any buildings within fifty feet of a fireplace area should be built or surfaced with fireproof materials. Fires should never be left unattended but should be completely extinguished when left. A circle of about sixteen inches should be cut around the base of trees in the lawn area to insure protection from the blades of lawn mowers and for convenience in the mowing operation. 7. For safety in the garden as well as in the house we should have a firstaid kit well supplied and available. 8. Garden tools and equipment can be safe or dangerous depending on how they are operated and stored. Children should not be permitted to operate or handle high-powered lawn mowers, hedge clippers, or sharpedged tools. 9. Fences, gates, and equipment should be kept in good repair. 10. When electrical cords are used in the garden they should be kept away from water or dampness. All electrical equipment should be grounded and used with caution. 11. Movable ladders should be strong, in good repair and stored in a dry place. 12. Outside stairways, raised _ terraces, ditches, and other hazardous places should be equipped with guard rails. 13. Insecticides, weed killers, chemical sprays and any other harmful or poisonous preparation as well as the equipment used should be stored out of reach of children. CONCLUSION By careful planning of our gardens and grounds, we can provide an environment so comfortable and livable and safe that it invites the participation of family and friends for relaxation, for pleasant dining, and for recreation r THE LILT OF A LARK A meadowlark was part of morning; Breathless, when a child | heard Its lilting lyric, spring on spring, And | adored the bird. A meadowlark is part of twilight; | hear it now in a grassy park. Its lilt has power to lift my sight To meet descending dark. —Pearle M. Olsen of body and spirit. / 466 SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1969-70 Elder Roy W. Doxey The Relief Society year 1969-70 brings to an end this study of the Doctrine and Covenants begun in 1957. These lessons began with events prior to the organization of the Church in April 1830, and end at the beginning of the pioneer period of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The lessons again are written about a central idea from the revelations. It is hoped that during the year each Relief Society member will finish reading all of the Doctrine and Covenants to complete the assigned reading. The lessons for 1969-70 begin with Doctrine and Covenants Section 131 (May 1843), a part of which was studied last year with Section 136 (January 1847). Only two of the five sections for study were given to the Church by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the others were given by Oliver Cowdery, John Taylor, and Brigham Young. All of the sections in the Doctrine and Covenants from Section 1 through 133 represent the revelations and writings of the Prophet. The latest revelation is Section 132, carrying the date July 12, 1843; whereas, the last Section, 133, was received on November 3, 1831, but since it is the Appendix, it appears at the end of the Prophet's revelations. Apparently, Section 134, dated August 17, 1835, was placed in its position because it was not written by the Prophet, but by Oliver Cowdery, though later accepted by Joseph Smith. After the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, Elder John Taylor wrote Section 135, an historical statement regarding the martyrdom. The final section in the Doctrine and Covenants is a revelation received in 1847 by President Brigham Young, President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, about one year before he was sustained as the President of the Church. This fact indicates the authority and power of the President of the Twelve in the interim between the death of the President and the appointment of the new President. In this interim period, he presides over the Council of the Twelve which quorum is equal in authority to the First Presidency. (D&C 107:23-24.) 467 June 1969 Lessons for the year 1969-70 bring messages of faith and assurance of the divinity of the work instituted, under God, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The greatness of his mission and the work performed by him are considered in four lessons. An opportunity is available through these lessons to know of the signs which indicate the nearness of the second coming of Jesus Christ. The final lesson of the series is devoted to the great theme of the dispensation—the building of Zion upon the earth. In another work the author of the lessons wrote the following: It is the writer's firm conviction that the privilege of participating in the building up of Zion in preparation for the glorious advent of the Lord depends upon how well we follow the divinely appointed latter-day leaders and hearken to the voice of the Spirit. He who accepts the prophets, seers, and revelators and constantly prays for the sanctifying influence of the Holy Ghost will be able to say with President Brigham Young, "I live and walk in Zion every day" and to recognize as he recognized, that '"'... Thousands of others in this Church and kingdom... Carry Zion with them." But this is not all. He who walks in Zion—in purity of heart—today shall build the city of Zion, in fact, tomorrow, or at the very least, bequeath to his posterity the qualities of godliness that will enable them to build it. (Roy W. Doxey, Zion in the Last Days, Salt Lake City; Ist ed., Olympus Publishing Company, 1965, pp. 81-82.) The 1969-70 series of spiritual living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 97—Eternal Marriage (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 131:1-4; 132.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman should understand the truth that a marriage to endure after this life must be performed in a house of the Lord, and seek to attain an eternal marriage. Lesson 98—Events Associated with the Second Coming of Christ (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 133.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman will resolve to prepare herself for the second coming of the Savior. Lesson 99—Government and Laws (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 134.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks to uphold the law and work within the law in seeking any desired change. Lesson 100—Joseph Smith Evaluated (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman strives to strengthen her testimony that Joseph Smith is a Prophet and that The Church of Jesus Christ was restored through him. 468 Lesson Previews Lesson 101—One of Joseph Smith's Contributions—Translation of The Book of Mormon (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman, knowing that The Book of Mormon was translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith through the power of God, gains increased faith in Jesus Christ as her Savior. Lesson 102—Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions—Doctrine and Covenants (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: As the Latter-day Saint woman gains a greater testimony that the Doctrine and Covenants was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration, she seeks to conform her life to its teachings. Lesson 103—Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions—Pearl of Great Price (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To increase the Latter-day Saint woman's testimony that the Pearl of Great Price was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration and to enlarge her understanding of God's eternal plan. Lesson 104—Zion and Its Future (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 136. Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is guided and sustained through her knowledge that the Church has been, is, and will forever be led by prophets of the Lord. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths To Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1969-70) Preview of Messages for 1969-70 Alice Colton Smith Thousands of years ago an astonishing and sobering event occurred. " a large and mighty man, and a man highly favored of the Lord." (Ether 1:34) was shown all "... The inhabitants of the earth which had been, and also all that would be even unto the ends of the earth." (Ether 3:25.) This example of God's omniscience, prophetic power, and knowledge of man is staggering. At the end of 1968 man's flight around the moon was hailed as a towering tribute to man's imagination, inventiveness, perseverance, 469 June 1969 and technical brilliance. It resulted from thousands of men working together. Outstanding as this was, compared with God's knowledge as shown to the brother of Jared, it was but a beginning. The Lord foresaw our day and its needs. Many would worship science and technology. There would be disillusionment with old and ancient religious rituals and ideas—even to the claim that "God is dead." The Lord made preparation, centuries in advance for an irrefutable book: Which is to show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever—And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the CHRIST, the ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations. (Preface to The Book of Mormon.) Abridged by two prophets, Mormon and Moroni, with their writings added, and translated by another, Joseph Smith, it remains an awe-inspiring, faith-inducing, stabilizing, continuing force in the unstable, searching, confused, often cruel world of men. Latter-day Saints everywhere turn to its pages for counsel and renewal of faith and understanding. It is a shining light in our turbulently troubled times. It is a beacon of God's constant concern, love, and offered help. This year we will draw new strength from its pages as we seek guidance and understanding for each day. Message 1—In the Service of Your Fellow Men Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To realize that when we serve our fellow beings, we are in the service of our God. Message 2—The Power of Example Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To understand that one's example can impede or help others. Message 3—The Compassion of Jesus Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To emphasize that Jesus' compassionate acts are a standard for us all. Message 4—Labor for That Which Perisheth Not (See 2 Ne. 9:51.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To remember that throughout one's life one makes eternal choices. Message 5—Weak Things May Become Strong Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To understand that by overcoming our weaknesses we can become strong. 470 Lesson Previews Message 6—Faith in Christ Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To know that faith needs constant nourishment. Message 7—True Conversion Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To remember that true conversion entails humility, repentance, improvement, and righteous works to the end of one's life. Message 8—''Men Are, That They Might Have Joy."' (2 Ne. 2:25.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: To remember that one of God's great objectives is that man "might have joy." Homemaking Development Through Homemaking Education— Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Preview of Discussions—1969-70 Celestia J. Taylor From the very beginning of this dispensation of the restoration of the gospel, our Church leaders have never ceased to admonish and advise us to maintain and provide for our families, not only in times of prosperity and plenty, but also in times of need and emergency. With the world in a turmoil of uncertainty and confusion, it is of greater importance than ever before that we heed the counsel of our leaders and prepare our homes so that our families will be provided for in any emergency which might, and very well could, arise. For this reason, the following course of study has been worked out for our homemaking discussions. Discussion 1—''She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household."' (Prov. 31:27.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To show the need for family preparedness and the role of the Latter-day Saint woman in achieving it. Discussion 2—''She Perceiveth That Her Merchandise Is Good: Her Candle Goeth Not Out By Night."' (Prov. 31:18.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To show that buying wisely and saving regularly are basic to good money management. 471 June 1969 Discussion 3—''The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her, So That He Shall Have No Need For Spoil.'' (Prov. 31:11.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To recognize that debt must be controlled to insure family happiness and financial security. Discussion 4—''She Considereth a Field and Buyeth It: With the Fruit of Her Hands She Planteth a Vineyard.'' (Prov. 31:16.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To point out the woman's responsibility in planning and managing a successful family budget. Discussion 5—''She... Worketh Willingly With Her Hands." (Prov. 31:13.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of foods. Discussion 6—''She Is Not Afraid of the Snow for Her Household: For All Her Household Are Clothed With Scarlet. (Prov. 31:21.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of basic items other than food. Discussion 7—''Her Children Arise Up, and Call Her Blessed; Her Husband Also, ie He Praiseth Her."' (Prov. 31:28.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To point out the mother's role in adequately preparing herself and her children through education and training. Discussion 8—''She Stretcheth Out Her Hands to the Poor; Yea, She Reacheth Forth Her Hands to the Needy."' (Prov. 31:20.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: To show that compassionate service is part of each woman's role in the welfare program. DISCUSSIONS FOR SUMMER MONTHS June—''He That Gathereth in Summer Is a Wise Son: But He That Sleepeth in Harvest Is a Son That Causeth Shame."' (Prov. 10:5.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1970 Southern Hemisphere: November 1970 Objective: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman appropriate utilization of available foods. July—The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet.. Eat Thou Honey, Because It Is Good; and the Honeycomb, Which! S Sweet to Thy Taste.'' (Prov. 24:13.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1970 Southern Hemisphere: December 1970 Objective: To show various uses of wheat, honey, and molasses in cooking. 472 Lesson Previews August—The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet (Cont.) 'Behold, the Lord Requireth the Heart and a Willing Mind; and the Willing and Obedient Shall Eat the Good of the Land in These Last Days.' (D&C 64:34.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1970 Southern Hemisphere: January 1971 Objective: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the need for and the use of products rich in protein in her family storage plan. September—The Mechanics of Food Storage "For the Earth Is Full, and There Is Enough and to Spare; Yea, | prepared All Things, and Have Given Unto the Children of Men to Be Agents Unto Themselves.'' (D&C 104:17.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1970 Southern Hemisphere: February 1971 Objective: To point out that a storage plan can be started regardless of space or circumstances. NOTE: A demonstration would be given in July and August and recipes furnished. A SOCIAL RELATIONS Immortality and Eternal Life Preview of Lessons 1969-70 Alberta H. Christensen As we approach the 1969-70 social relations lessons, based again upon the writings of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., we recall the words of Lord Byron: But words are things; and a small drop of ink, Falling like dew, upon a thought, produces That which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think. During the coming year we shall be concerned with words—motivating, thought-evoking words which may inspire thousands of Latter-day Saint women throughout the world. During the years of President Clark's membership in the First Presidency of the Church, April 1933-October 1961, he delivered numerous addresses to graduating university students, to Church auxiliary organizations, at general Church conferences and elsewhere. In these addresses many principles of the gospel were impressively clarified and truths fundamental in constructive, righteous living became beckoning roads for the listeners to follow. Some of these addresses preserved in written form constitute the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study for 1969-70. The companion Relief Society lessons will again correlate with a number of them. Ques- 473 June 1969 tions important as the following are among those to be considered in the social relations lessons: Is restraint really the road to freedom? How are our everyday activities influenced by the immutable laws of the universe? How important is work in achieving personal happiness? How does the role of woman relating to the eternal plan of creation place her in a position of honor? How may a mother's knowledge of the ultimate destiny of the family unit influence her attitude toward what otherwise might seem merely housewife routine? What would be included in the inherent upward reach of man? In some cases the correlation with the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study will be very close and the words of President Clark will be quoted frequently. This will give the Relief Society women an opportunity to feel the spirit and individuality of President Clark's writings. In other cases significant statements made by President Clark will form the basis for a lesson channeled more specifically to a woman's everyday world. The emphasis thus will be on a woman's relationship to her Father in heaven, to herself, and to her family, with some consideration of neighborhood situations. We remind class leaders that. The introduction to each lesson should be a helpful guide in their lesson preparation. They are urged also to make full use of the involvement suggestions so that class members will be motivated to think and to participate actively in the discussion of gospel principles and human behavior situations being considered. Lesson 1—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 1 Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To point out a mother's opportunity to teach the need and benefits of complying with the restraints of the immutable laws of the universe. Lesson 2—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 2 Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To point out that understanding the difference between immutable spiritual and physical laws and the regulations which apply to them, may influence one's attitude toward the regulations. Lesson 3—The Upward Reach - Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To illustrate that all may enjoy man's material progress but our spiritual achievements must be individually attained. Lesson 4—Work—A Road to Personal Fulfillment Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To emphasize the value of work in meeting the requirements of happiness and of divine admonition. 474 Lesson Previews Lesson 5—Be of Good Cheer Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To remind the Latter-day Saint woman that the gospel of Christ brings a message of gladness to her home. Lesson 6—A Position of Honor Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To point out that the role of woman is essential to the eternal plan of creation and that she therefore occupies a position of honor. Lesson 7—Purpose and Reward Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To point out that if a Latter-day Saint woman will keep the ultimate destiny of the family unit constantly in mind, she may be purposefully motivated in her daily living. Lesson 8—''Whither Goest Thou?"' Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: To reemphasize some of the truths in the writings of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., which may influence for good the behavior patterns of our lives. Cultural Refinement Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Preview of Lessons for 1969-70 Bruce B. Clark (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5: Community Responsibility, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas.) The Cultural Refinement program of lessons using Out of the Best Books as a basic text has now functioned for five years in the Relief Society organization. Volume 5, to be used during 1969-70, will complete the sixth year of what was planned from the beginning as a six-year program. Volume 1, used in 1964-65 and 1965-66, stressed the individual and human values as seen through literature and the related arts. Volumes 2 and 3, used in 1966-67 and 1967-68, widened the horizon, emphasizing ideals and problems in marriage, parenthood, and family relationships. Now the closing two years of the program, Volume 4 for 1968-69 and Volume 5 for 1969-70, widen the scope still further, stressinga woman's activities andresponsibilitiesin community life and the world in which she lives. 475 June 1969 As pointed out a year ago, no individual or family can exist in isolation. In many significant ways a woman's first responsibility is to herself and to her family, but she also needs to function meaningfully with other people—as a friend and neighbor, as a Church worker, and as a citizen of the community, the nation, and the world. Moreover, in all of these things she needs to find a happy balance between work, recreation, relaxation, spirituality, and cultural fulfillment. Each lesson in the Cultural Refinement program for this year will focus upon community involvement that is meaningful, wholesome, and well balanced. As in former years, each section of the text will include more material than can easily be covered in a single lesson. This is done intentionally so that each class leader may choose those selections that she responds to with enthusiasm and that she feels are especially appropriate to her group. It is far better to cover one or two selections thoroughly and in such a way that they really touch the lives of the women than it is to cover all of the selections hastily and superficially. Any selections not used in the Relief Society lessons are still available for excellent enrichment readings within the home. The year ahead will be the fourth year in which music and painting are used to supplement the literature in each lesson. Once again we encourage class leaders to harmonize the music and art as fully as possible into the lesson goals for each month rather than use them merely as decoration. We know that this is difficult, but the challenge can be met with careful advance planning, i. E., by careful allocation of time, by using them either as introductory or concluding material, or by using them as special assignments. Once again we also urge class leaders to get as many Relief Society sisters as possible personally involved in each lesson. If the lesson is simply a monthly presentation by the teacher to women who have not read the material and do not participate in experiencing it, the lesson probably will not be very meaningful. All Relief Society sisters should be encouraged to read the selections in advance, participate in presenting them or at least in discussing them, and then take them home to their husbands and children for family enrichment. With this approach each lesson can be deeply meaningful and permanently useful. The overall theme for the year is "Woman's fulfillment through service to others and involvement in the lives of others" and the outline of individual lessons is as follows: Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom 'My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us free.''—Book of Mormon (Ali. 61:9.) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To demonstrate that the free agency of man—his right to choose—is at the base of all meaningful liberty. 476 Lesson Previews Music: ''Blanik'' from Ma Viast (My Fatherland) by Bedrich Smetana (1824-1884) Czech Lesson 2—The Role of Education "The object of true education is to make people st merely do the right things but enjoy them.''—John Ruskin Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To show the development of individual capacity is a primary source of social or community strength. Art: ''The Girl in White'' by Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919) American Lesson 3—The Problem of Communication "There is no more sure tie between friends than when they are united in their objects and wishes.''—Cicero Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To illustrate that those who can communicate can work together, and those who work together make civilization possible. Art: 'Advice to a Young Artist' by Honoré Daumier (1808-1879) French Lesson 4—The Place of Entertainment 'Any pleasure which keeps the heart from God will be fatal to the soul.''- Richard Fuller Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To show that there is a valid place for entertainment and pleasure in life but that these should always be in good taste and in accordance with Church standards. Music: ''The Telephone, a ''mini-opera'' by Gian Carlo Menotti (1911- ) American (Italian-born) Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service "Humblest service done by willing and discerning souls is glory.''—George Eliot Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To emphasize that service makes a citizen out of an inhabitant and a community out of a town. Art: ''The Blind Girl' by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English Lesson 6—The Power of Work and the Use of Leisure "All true work is sacred; tn all true work, were it but true hand-labor, there is something of divineness.'"-—Thomas Carlyle "Without leisure we must live above the surface of things; leisure brings penetration."' —Manly Hall Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To stress that both work and leisure can contribute to improvement when balanced wisely. Art: ''La Grande Jatte'' by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French 477 June 1969 Lesson 7—The Thrill and Reward of Participation "Action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action."' —Benjamin Disraeli Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To show that no view from without can match the insight, growth, and accomplishment of involvement. Music: ''Fourth Tableau'' from the ballet Petrushka by igor Stravinsky (1882- a D> SUDDENLY AWARE American (Russian-born) He steadied her arm, and their glances were bent For a long, searching moment, intense and intent Upon one perfect snowflake that lay on her sleeve, While awareness of joy come alive at the touch And the wonderful wonder of having so much To be shared and in which to believe. —Iris W. Schow New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 ____-.75 Zone3.~.__._.60 Zone6 ___~--85 Zone4 _.._..65 Zone7 ___.. ~.95 ZoneB___ _ -_1.05 fc a DESERET [FRPeEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service 478 = UTAH VACATION Brighton Chalets" MODERN FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS IN COOL ALPINE SETTING mach OY: ~ TENNIS. COLE FISHING, i HIKING, SCENIC CHAIR LFTRDES SALT LAKE CITY (801) 363-2158 aS. SWALBERC BLAU All Grain 4 Stone Ground Flour Mill Peete For full 7 information,; write te, Deot. F. S. * P. O. Box 115 | Tremonton, Utah 84337 St or. The Best in the West CIAWSON Yes Ceuwton Joe Travel Service SINCE 1933 "THE ORIGINAL HISTORIC TOUR" To the Hill Cumorah Pageant July 24 - Aug. 10 TOURS ALSO TO HAWAII « ORIENT + EUROPE MEXICO + SOUTH PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICA + CARIBBEAN For further information and for all your travel needs write or phone— Vida Fox Clawson Travel Service noon 216 So. 13th East fash: Salt Lake City, Utah, 84102 'ao 328-3234 or 328-0303 "THE TRIP WITHOUT A WORRY" PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * California Holiday July 5th-16th * Hill Cumorah Pageant 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th % Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 18th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 12th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 479 100 95 94 93 92 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. Mrs.-Leota Hendershot Bigelow Ogden, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ann Smith Stewart Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Elthora Christensen Buchanan Manti, Utah Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Lilly Ann White Parker Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Eliza Ottellia Huber Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriet Butler Pulsipher Eagar, Arizona Mrs. Phebeth Evans Seymour Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Elmira Allred Aiken Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jennie Mabel Brooks Pinkham Avery Manchester, New Hampshire Mrs. Edith Crampton Clarkson Tonasket, Washington Mrs. Margaret Alice Robinson Holyoak Parowan, Utah Mrs. Kathrine Jensen Olsen El Monte, California Mrs. Margaret Petersen Peterson Springville, Utah Mrs. Kathyrun Burt Poole Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Amanda Munk Smith Logan, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Steed Walker Salt Lake City, Utah 91 90 Mrs. Harriett Jane Smith Cercy Tampa, Florida Mrs. Catherene Mabel Woodbury Eldredge Granger, Utah Mrs. Almira Heeney Kline Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Caroline Bertina Larsen Newton, Utah Mrs. Janet Twaites Purdy Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sena Rasmussen ° Richfield, Utah Mrs. Tessie Olivia Bolinder Turpin Murray, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Calvert Stanger Woodland Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Helen Ethelin Holgate Boas Rochester, New York Mrs. Mary Etta Moore Farnsworth Glendale, California Mrs. Ellen Isabele Marritt Lancaster Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Ella Berry Leigh Cedar City, Utah Mrs. Susan Adams Lewis American Fork, Utah Mrs. Elsie Bessie Cornford Savage Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Alice May Tayler Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs.: Antonia Van Harten Salt. Lake City, Utah "Treasured Nuggets of Truth GOSPEL INSIGHTS From Sermons and Stories of William J. Critchlow Jr. Compiled by Eleanor Knowles Treasured nuggets of truth and sparkling wisdom are found in the ''storiettes"' of the late Elder Critchlow. He tells the story of the woman who asked him why women do not hold the priesthood. Here is part of his answer. "There is a center in every home From which all joys must start. Where is that center? It is in the mother's heart."' Scripturally ''the husband is the head of the wife.'' Did God, however, make mother the family heart with subtle power to sway the head? Read the complete answer in Chapter 15 Women and the Priesthood. $3.95 ospel ht From the Sermons and Stories of William J Critchlow Ir. THE SAGA OF THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM by Jay M. Todd The fascinating and puzzling story of the Book of Abraham is told here in a style that is both easy and interesting to read. Probably the most minute physical description of the four mummies the Prophet purchased is contained in this book. For example Mummy No. 1 a female, 4 feet 11 inches No. 3 a male about 80, but read the full details and many newly discovered facts in this new volume. $4.95 DESERET BOOK COMPANY "pook 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me _ eeecopies of GOSPEL INSIGHTS ae, 5copies of THE SAGA OF THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM Mrecost$. Ww.| enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account [j Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. June R. S. Mag. 69 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land, Makes 2 round, 9-inch layers 1-inch thick, or a 9-inch square cake 11% inches thick. %, cup shortening 234 cups sifted cake suggests this delicious {part butter) oy fou = i 1 I t i dessert for family raves or ne 3 eggs, separated 1 cup milk PLAIN —_ for — 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla Sift flour, baking powder, salt and U and | Sugar into mixing bowl. Add shortening, milk and vanilla. Beat on medium speed for 2 minutes, scraping down bowl occasionally. Add egg yolks and beat 2 more minutes. Beat egg whites (have them at room temperature) until they form soft peaks. Fold into other ingredients. Spread into greased pans. Bake layers 25 minutes or until done in a 375° F. Oven; bake square cake 35 minutes or until done in a 350° F. Oven. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where U: J J sugarbeets are grown. U and! Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: INlustrations: BY HANDCART CAME They knew how far it was By measured longings for a home. Exulting as they went, their cart wheels spun Into the garnet-studded West. Children of the evening, they? No, of the noon. The scars of the night were washed away, The Zion of their days begun. A thousand miles and pull a cart! They, of avalanche and stone, Of fiords and crags, Of bounties of the sea and shore. Possessions now, were millstones gone. The throated burning in their breasts Enough to feed upon. They knew how far it was, The lingering distance stalked with death. With spider strength, dragged Carcasses of bed and skillet, Flour and salt, through grass of June, July's scorched lips, then to lay their burdens down Upon November's sod. Ground so hallowed, pray Walk unshod. —Hazel Loomis Meeting of Desert and Mountains, Southern Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Handcart in the West Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes The Relief SOCICTY Magazine Volume 56 July 1969 Number 7 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 484 How | Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 492 Announcement of Winners—Annual Relief Society Song Writing Contest 494 Keys to Child Guidance: Goal, Understanding, and Technique Jean Larsen Fiction 497 Missionaries to Dinner Joan Nelson Ahiman 506 Love Is not Veiled Marian Gardner Nielson 520 Just a Dab of Butter Lena Mae Hansen 526 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 2 Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 482 From Near and Far 503 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 504 Editorial—To Each Is Given a Gift Louise W. Madsen 532 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 560 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 514 Mama Counted Flavor—Not Calories Edythe K. Watson 518 A Brace of Horses Helen Hinckley Jones 523 Her Hobby Is Writing—Bertha Anderson Kleinman 524 Budget Decorating—The Tapestry Touch June Feulner Krambule Lesson Department 540 Spiritual Living—Eternal Marriage Roy W. Doxey 546 Visiting Teacher Message—In the Service of Your Fellow Men Alice Colton Smith 547 Homemaking Discussion—''She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household'' Celestia J. Taylor - 549 Social Relations—Restraint—The Road to Freedom, Part 1 Alberta H. Christensen 554 Cultural Refinement—The Meaning of Freedom Robert K. Thomas Poetry 481 By Handcart Came Hazel Loomis / His Gift, Sadie Ollerton Clark 490; Wooded Headland, Vesta N. Fairbairn 491; Summer Night, Elizabeth Russell 502; The Infinite Composer, Gillian G. Brown-Lee 512; A Lamp to Shine, Maxine R. Jennings 513; Grandma's Cookies, Ruth G. Rothe 519; Winged Peace, Bernice Ames 525; Life's Afternoon, Grace B. Wilson 553; Bright Echo, Nona H. Brown 559. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year: foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 483 (2 'an an Lon fan Kon OS 5% SOS OS OO SS C5 anion Koo X oo Koo Kon X, Koo Ka Xoo XoXo ea fan fan tan OS OS OS OS OS OSYanan fool cure > oy a es Kas Kon Kas Kos Koa Kos ee Kos Kee oe Karan Kos Xen, eo ou Kor, Ci) Se S2Se SSG G2. S2 Cc » Se G2.-Se2-C22 Se? 2G 9 GES. S90? PG? SGP So? G2 SACS? SSS? SS? SP' GS? GP 9? SPn () 0) Os CRORE: nM): oe off ROO} ° Hoi a How | Became Involved in the 0 ». On: ORHRD: seep, ( ' i DOCTRINE ae 'ROO: Oigi0 AROWRO: 10 u; RHO: TI OHO: ORR 'OO k ) oro: 1 Ly. 0) Jone OF OR ORY, x0) OK VR ' U8 D; te x ( 0 0 () Oho) V} PESOS OS OS OS OS CN OS OS CSCS ONC SOS OS OS OS CS CS OS OS CS CS OSES CSCS OOS OS OS OS OS OS SOS SS ooKooyn. 040 ' Seg NNN NN NN KK NK IK IKK XR ne »¢ » € CO ed ss eo, ee Kee Kee Kes Kase Xe Xe Kew es Kes Kos Xa Kes Kon Kas Ka Kem Kas Kon Kon > Cay Cay UF (NRT OE ESE CE CE CCE OST TS SESS SS SSS OOD) Roy W. Doxey Professor of Scripture Brigham Young University {Editorial Note: The concluding year of the study of the Doctrine and Covenants will begin in October 1969 in the Northern Hemisphere and in March 1970 in the Southern Hemisphere. | ws I assume that it would be a little easier if I were to address myself to the subject: "When Did I Begin to Study the Gospel of Jesus Christ?" instead of "How I Became Involved in The Doctrine and Covenants," because the Doctrine and Covenants _ gives us the gospel. In fact, if we were to analyze its doctrines, I do not believe it could be surpassed by any of the other three books of scripture accepted by the Latter-day Saints. Furthermore, we would learn that it is the repository of many doctrines of salvation which are only mentioned or inferred in those other books. Formative Years in the Priesthood As far as I am concerned, my interest in the study of the gospel began when I became a deacon in the Aaronic Priesthood. I believe that because I was 484 given responsibility at that time my interest in the gospel was heightened. It was the practice of the counselor in the bishopric who had charge of the quorum to give assignments to the quorum members to participate in giving parts of the lesson. As an ordained teacher, I became the teacher of the quorum under the direction of a member of the ward bishopric. This practice continued in the _ priest's quorum; consequently, my interest in the gospel became very great during those formative years in the priesthood. This foundation proved very helpful in preparation for a mission, so much that when I was called to be a missionary at the age of twenty-two, I felt that I was prepared to teach the gospel when I arrived in the mission field. My interest in the gospel was theological; consequently, | learned the doctrines of the Church from all of the standard works, especially with an emphasis upon the Bible since I knew I would use it as the How | Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants basis of my missionary work. It wasn't until some years later, except for the use of many pas- - gages in the Doctrine and Covenants which provided clear explanations of particular. Doctrines, that I really studied the Doctrine and Covenants in depth. The True Concept of God Among many other fundamental doctrines, the missionary teaches the investigator the true concept of God. Of all the doctrines of the gospel this one stands out as one of the most important for people to know — since it is life eternal to know God. (John 17:3.) One of the difficulties a nonmember may have in accepting the concept that God is personal, having a body of flesh and bones, is God's attribute of omnipresence. The apostate "Christian" world believes that God is a spirit without form; whereas the Lord has revealed to his prophets, ancient and modern, that he has a body. He may be said, however, to be a spirit the same as "man is spirit;" that is, he, as well as -man, has always been a spirit, from eternity to eternity though in earth-life and the resurrected state the personal spirit is associated with a body. (D&C 93: 33; 130:22.) If God has a tangible body, and he is not a spirit only, then how can he be omnipresent, or everywhere? The "Light of Christ" or spirit of the Lord emanates from God to fill all space. (Acts 17:27-28; D&C 88:12.) Because of this omnipresent power, God has communication with all of his creations, and thus he is everywhere, as the scriptures aver. Salient Principles of Doctrine and Covenants The Doctrine and Covenant is different from the other three standard works of the Church because it is a little more diffcult to maintain interest in sustained reading unless one has a definite objective in his reading, such as theological. There is relatively no narrative in the Doctrine and Covenants. The exception to this is Section 135, the historical account of the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum at Carthage Jail 125 years ago. I presume that it would not be amiss to suggest an exaggerated comparison of the Doctrine and Covenants and reading the dictionary—in both, there is statement after statement of truths not always connected with the preceding information. This fact, however, has its advantages. One does not have to look very far to find rich, inspiring thoughts. Also, one must concentrate on his reading in order not to miss salient principles. Years ago I realized that many members of the Church might find difficulty in keeping up their interest in reading the Doctrine and Covenants, so I conceived the idea that this book could be enjoyed more and learned better, perhaps, through the commentaries of the prophets, seers, and revelators of the dispensation. With this and other purposes in mind, I set out to compile such a work, using the sermons and writings of the members of the First Presidencies, Twelve Apostles, and the Patriarchs to the Church to explain 485 July 1969 the Doctrine and Covenants. For well over five years I labored on this project which culminated in the four volumes of The Latter-Day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, published from 1963 to 1965. I have known young as well as old people who have shown unusual interest in the Doctrine and Covenants through the use of these volumes. Writings of Elder B. H. Roberts In the years when I was learning the teachings of the Church, I was impressed with the writings of Elder B. H. Roberts of the First Council of Seventy. I remember his quoting a passage from George Rawlinson's Historical Evidences of the Truth of the Scripture Records, as follows:. Of this we may be sure, that if any new forms of evidence should hereafter be needed, to meet any new forms of unbelief, and authenticate afresh the word of truth, they will be found deposited somewhere, waiting for the fulness of time; and God will bring them forth in their season, from the dark hieroglyphics, or the desert sands, or the dusty manuscripts, to confound the adversaries of his word, and to magnify it above all his name. (Quoted in New Witness for God, Volume II, Forewords.) Under the caption of "The World's Hunger For Knowledge of The Christ," President Roberts quoted the following from the Life of the Master by Rev. John Watson: Were a_ parchment discovered in an Egyptian mound, six inches square, containing fifty words which were certainly spoken by Jesus, this utterance would count more than all the books which have been published since the first century. (Ibid.) 486 Although Elder Roberts used these quotations to support the Book of Mormon, I came early in life to know that we do have the words of Christ in the Doctrine and Covenants, in fact, hundreds and hundreds of them spoken to his Prophet, Joseph Smith. The introduction to the revelations in this book of scripture reveals the author as the Savior. Examples are: Hearken, O ye people of my church— 1:1. _— to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer (27:1.) Behold, thus saith the Lord, even Alpha and Omega... (54:1.) A Witness for the Savior The Lord declared, however, that the revelations were given after the manner of the Prophet's language. (D&C 1:24.) The Doctrine and Covenants stands as a witness for Jesus that he is the Savior of those who want to be saved. The doctrine that salvation comes only to those who accept him and thus he saves only them, is taught plainly. (D&C 42:1; 29:17.) In truth, the Doctrine and Covenants is an answer to the present thought among some theologians that God is dead, a notion that has received wide publicity. The modern scriptures declare plainly that God lives! Two important accounts of the appearance of the Savior in this generation are given in the Doctrine and Covenants: (1) the stirring description by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon is a testimony to this fact. And now after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we How | Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father— That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God. (D&C 76:22-24.) And (2) we know of the glorified account of the Savior's appearance to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836. The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. (/bid., 110:1-4.) In a scholarly article entitled "The Requiem for God," the author gives four causes for the belief that God is dead. Among these is the awareness of suffering in the 20th century demonstrated in the work of "Christians" at the Auschwitz Prison Camp where thousands of Jews perished in death chambers. Paraphrasing the words of the author, Doris Donnelly, she said that the terrible suffering that is occurring in the world can only be attributed to God if he is made into a monster. ("The Requiem For God," Religious Education, JulyAugust 1967, p. 318.) To the Latter-day Saint the Lord has revealed the why and wherefore of human suffering, and in doing so he has given us the strength and power to endure. The inspired words given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in Liberty Jail, Missouri, provide this blessing: "know thou, my son, that all these things (sufferings and the tribulations) shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he?" (D&C 122:7-8.) Truly, when man knows the purpose of suffering, he is better able to endure it. Ultimately, sorrow, suffering, and like adversities are for our development, growth and _ purification. (Lesson 92 "Adversity," Relief Society Magazine, October 1968.) A Witness for the Bible I learned that in addition to the power of the Doctrine and Covenants as a testator for the Savior, it also helped me immeasurably as a student of the gospel to affirm my faith in and acceptance of other Biblical teachings. I believe that the modern standard works of the Church have greatly increased the faith of Latter-day Saints in the Bible, a book which has lost ground among "Christian" people. President Brigham Young said he expected to see' the Bible voted out of the so-called Christian world, and progress was being made in doing so in his day. (Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 125.) Since then, the Bible has been quite generally set aside as being true. Fundamental gospel teachings have been rejected. As long ago as 1929, in a survey of 500 ministers and 487 July 1969 500 students studying for the ministry, many teachings held dear to the older ministers were not acceptable to most of the younger men. (Leo Rosten, editor, A Guide to the Religions of America, pp. 236-238.) On the other hand, the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith that the revelations he gave him would have the effect of increasing faith among men. (D&C 1: 17-23.) Thousands of people have had their faith restored and also increased in the credibility of the Bible through their acceptance of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The trek of our pioneer forefathers over long miles of plains bears solemn testimony to their faith built upon modern revelation. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Caught the sacrifice and toil of these hardy, faithful men and women as he described in a general conference later published in a book "To Them of the Last Wagon," this magnificent accomplishment, as follows: That evening was the last of the great trek, the mightiest trek that history records since Israel's flight from Egypt, and as the sun sank below the mountain peaks they of the last wagon, and of the wagon before them, and of the one before that, and so the very front wagon of the train, these all sank to their knees in the joy of their souls, thanking God that at last they were in Zion. "Zion, Zion, lovely Zion, Beautiful Zion, Zion, City of our God."' They knew there was a God, for only he could have brought them tnumphant, militant, through all the scorn, the ridicule, the slander, the tarrings and featherings, the whippings, the burnings, the plunderings, the murderings, the ravishing of wives and daughters, that had been their lot, the lot of their people since Joseph visioned the Father and the Son. (Conference Report, October 1947, page 158.) 488 Words of the Lord to This Generation How did I become involved in the study of the Doctrine and Covenants? You will have observed by now that my interest came about as a youth because I needed the Doctrine and Covenants to clarify many Bible doctrines in my preparation for the mission field. Also, I came to know that this book of scripture is a witness for the divinity of the Savior. In addition, I saw in the Doctrine and Covenants the words of the Lord Jesus Christ to the people of this generation. This last fact was apparent, for it is a modern book intended to guide people on the road to salvation in the present world. In the Bible there are many prophecies regarding the last days. My interest was aroused in the Doctrine and Covenants because it is a "voice of warning" to the people of our times, just as the Bible was intended to "warn" the people of the generations about which it speaks, and at the same time, in prophecy, it spoke of our dispensation. In other words, to have the Creator of the earth inform us of what is to happen to this world and its inhabitants today even more clearly than the information on this subject in the Bible, is a stimulus for the members of the Church to become involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. For example, the very conditions which we see today—extreme wickedness, disbelief in God, people becoming laws 'unto themselves—were foreknown. Of interest to all of us are world events. The political unrest among the nations, the How | Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants extent of rumors of wars and actual conflict, together with the great amount of sickness and natural calamities, all signify that the times prophesied are with us. Unless extreme apa- » thy has taken hold of us, it is dificult to understand why a Latter-day Saint would not want to understand the signs preced-_ ing the second coming of Christ. We should look forward to his coming. (D&C 45:39-42.) The Purpose of Life I doubt that there is a person who at some time in his life, if not many times, has not wondered about the purpose of this life and especially the important question as to what lies beyond the grave. This ever-present question is revealed in the Doctrine and Covenants, especially the future existence following the spirit world. The truth is taught that man had a premortal state and that the earth was created for man. (D&C 92:23-29; 49:16-17.) Man is spirit and body to be wed eventually by the resurrection. (Ibid., 88:15-16.) The doctrine of the resurrection is revealed plainly, and evidence to support belief in the resurrection is given in accounts of resurrected beings communing with mortals. Such examples are: John the Baptist, Peter and James, Elijah, Moses and other prophets. ([bid., 27:5-14; 128:21.) One of the most distinctive doctrines taught in the modern revelations that has found unusual interest and profit is the one regarding the various kingdoms following the resurrection. Who has not thrilled with this "transcript from the eternal world," as he has come to understand the magnanimity, mercy, and justice of God in this divine plan? How wonderful it is to have one's eyes opened to understand the opportunity to receive exaltation—all that the Father hath? Early in life I learned this great truth, and I came to love it because it was congenial to my soul. I believe that this doctrine motivates one to serve the Lord with all his heart, might, mind, and strength. As one comes to love one teaching after another, his whole being takes on new life and new purpose. The visions of the prophets become his _ visions and. His goals. The same spirit that revealed the teachings of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the prophets also reveals these truths to the one who becomes involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. He loves the Lord because he knows that the Lord loves him. He understands what it means when the Lord said: That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that - hight groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day. (D&C 50:24.) How to B2come Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. If someone were to ask me what he or she could do to become involved in this wonderful book of scripture, I would offer the following: 1. She could undertake an assignment to teach this book. 2. If this opportunity were not available in the classroom, she could assume that someday she would need the teachings of the Doctrine and 489 July 1969 Covenants to help her as a teacher, administrator in the Church, to assume the responsibilities of a parent, to abide by the charge of "every member a missionary," and above all for her own salvation. 3. She could ask herself a series of questions about the doctrines of the Church periodically and then endeavor to learn the answers to these questions from the Doctrine and Covenants by the use of the index, concordance, commentaries, and other means. 4. She could resolve to set aside ten or fifteen minutes each day to read the revelations. If there were times when she found it hard to follow this practice she could remember the advice of President Brigham Young concerning prayer: If you do not feel like praying then get down on your knees, then stay there until you get the spint of prayer. (Journal of Discourses 7:164.) So also, she could be as persistent until she became the victor. No doubt other means might be employed of accomplishing the same purpose. In any case, I bear testimony that a knowledge of the teachings of the Doctrine and Covenants is necessary to attain the heights of performance required to receive eternal life. The revelations are true, Joseph Smith is a prophet, and his successors enjoy the same calling. All of this means that Jesus Christ is our Savior in every sense of the word; he lives, this I know by the testimony of the Spirit. I HIS GIFT They say Six thousand of them perished as they came this way. And she was one of those. He could not fathom why they left her there Why he must forfeit all her loving care, Nor why her life must close. Just eight years old. He walked the rocky path With no sweet hand to keep him on the trail. His father, stumbling on with bitter eyes, Ruing the day he left his English skies, Fearing what future griefs might yet unveil— Desperate and doubtful then—he prayed, and stayed. Then came gray days, And homeless, drifting, lonely, seeking years. He found no Mecca in this rugged land, No dream fulfilled for him. Yet for his son He gave a gift beyond comparison. He gave America to compensate those tears. 490 —Sadie Ollerton Clark Cypress — | WOODED H EADLAND Someone /, Announcement of Winners Mary R. Decker Safsten The General Board of Relief Society is happy to announce the names of the winners in the first annual Relief Society Song Writing Contest. The first prize of sixty dollars for the music and forty dollars for the lyrics is awarded to the song-writing team of Mary D. Safsten and Ranghild L. Safsten for a lovely hymn, "Lo, Thou Art Near." Mary D. Safsten wrote the music, and the lyrics were penned by her mother-in-law. Both women are members of the Bellingham Ward, Cascade Stake, in Washington. The second prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Ruth B. Lehenbauer of Logan, Utah, for her hymn "My Cup of Joy." The prize-winning songs are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and will be programmed for performance by Singing Mother choruses. The General Board is very pleased with the response to this first contest. There were 222 songs submitted to a committee of eminently qualified judges. The winners are to be congratulated for their very fine abilities. The caliber of the songs submitted was very high, showing the great talent of Latter-day Saint women in the musical field. The General Board once again congratulates these sisters and all others who entered the contest on their accomplishments and encourages even more widespread participation in future competition. 492 Mary R. Decker Safsten began her study of music at a very early age and has participated extensively in Church and school musical activities. She was reared in Mesa, Arizona. She was graduated from Brigham Young University with an undergraduate and graduate major in music. In 1957, she married Robert Safsten and they are the parents of seven children. She has given organ recitals in Washington, Utah, and Arizona, and accompanied the Cascade—Vancouver Stakes - Singing Mothers concert, and participated with the Singing Mothers from the Northwest at General Conference two years ago. Besides her family, her activities include music composition, genealogy, musical service in the auxilaries, and teaching positions in these organizations. Ranghild L. Linde Safsten Ranghild L. Linde Safsten was born in Sweden. Her family emigrated to the United States when she was five years old and homesteaded a farm in northwestern Washington. She is married to Oscar J. Safsten and they are parents of four children and have seventeen grandchildren. She has taught Sunday School, and served as Relief Society president, counselor, and homemaking leader. She recently served a stake mission. She enjoys sewing, handicraft, cooking, and of course, writing poetry. Ruth Benson Lehenbauer was born in Washington D. C. And spent most of her youth in Silver Spring, Maryland. She acquired the majority of her college education in Utah. After serving a mission to West Germany, she was married to Ottomar Lehenbauer and they have three children. She is presently serving as MIA chorister in her ward, and is a part-time instructor of languages at Utah State University, Logan, Utah, teaching French and German. Ruth Benson Lehenbauer 493 Goal, Understanding, and Technique Jean Larsen, Instructor in Child Development and Family Relationships at. Brigham Young University @ The answer to the question, "Should there be discipline?" comes through loud and clear, "Yes, there must be discipline!" But the what, the why, and the how of discipline and guidance are not so clearly spelled out. Not knowing what is expected on either end of the guidance situation provides some frustrating experiences for all concerned. We recall the story: Bobby had been playing by the duck pond for several minutes when Father called for him to come in the house. Bobby approached his father slowly, looking down at muddy feet and wet pant legs. When Bobby's father saw the mud and the wet, he said in a stern voice, "Well, Bobby, how many times must you be told to stay out of the mud and water? Go get me a willow, maybe a 'willowing' will help you remember." Bobby was gone for several minutes before he slowly approached his father again— this time with his hands behind him. His father's voice was again stern as he said, "Well, I'm waiting, give me the willow." Bobby 494 drew both hands around and produced not a willow but several rocks in each hand. Then he said in a meek little voice, "T couldn't find a willow, but here are some rocks to throw at me." GOAL As adults being responsible for guiding the child we are concerned about his behavior and ways of altering, controlling, or instigating certain behaviors. Guidance can become a battle of wills between adults and children. But, as in all battles, someone must be the victor. Should it be the adult at the expense of the child's curiosity, spontaneous expression, and self-esteem, or should the child be the winner because of his ability to display compulsive, negative, and violent behavior? Power struggles are a risk to any relationship and should be avoided. The goal of guidance is to let the child know what is expected of him, and then provide experiences which will help him to develop self-discipline or control from within. UNDERSTANDING Why do children do what they do and when will they change? There is a reason why children do what they do. Sometimes adults don't take time or don't try to understand what is behind the behavior. How many times have you heard a parent say to a child, "Now stop crying or [ll really give you something to cry for," assuming that there is not a reason for the child to cry in the first place. Some behavior, although unacceptable to adults, is normal for the child of a given age and may very well pass on like the seasons. Temper tantrums are a normal reaction to frustration for the toddler age. Getting into things, finding out what possibility an object or material has for manipulation, is a_ force pushing the child from within. Most parents have the same concerns. "Why can't my child be quiet in Church?" or "Just when I want him to behave, he really acts up." A new situation or one that does not necessarily accommodate to the child usually produces child behavior that the adult does not approve of. The most difficult time in many households is the dinner hour. Mother may be intent on preparing the meal, younger children are tired and hungry, and Father and the older children need a listening ear after their day away from home. Tension runs high in such a situation. Keys to Child Guidance Sometimes children do what they do because they do not know what is expected of them. TECHNIQUE Guidance involves evaluation of and reaction to _ behaviors. Because each of us is an individual dealing with another unique' individual, successful techniques will vary. There are some guidelines which may serve as a basis for dealing with behavior in general. First, punishment does not teach or show the child the type of behavior you want exemplified. It may cut off the behavior or traumatize the child about that which he should not do, but punishment does not establish what the child should do. Toddlers are notorious for using primitive social techniques. Usually, if another child has something they want they will bite, poke, pull or hit in order to gain possession. Many parents see this behavior and become very anxious. Usually, someone will suggest that the way to teach them not to bite is for you to bite them back. Will your biting the child teach him what you want him to do? Second, it is not wise to try to cut off a child's curiosity. This is like trying to stop his growth. Foster his asking questions and trying things out. If the behavior is caused because of a growing curiosity, then tolerate or channel, but be very selective when you stop this kind of behavior. Water play is one of the most soothing types of play a child of most young ages can engage in. However, water play and 495 July 1969 other related sensory types of play need to be channeled. A mother might respond, "No, I can't have you pouring water from container to container here on the kitchen floor, but outside (or a protected area inside) you may do so." Third, try looking at things from the child's point of view. Rather than expecting the child to come all the way in an intolerable situation, see what you can do to make it easier for him. Sincere praise for just being himself can modify a_child's behavior. Some adults feel compliments are not for children, but if there is a basis for them, they should be used. There was a five-year-old in the nursery school who seemed to be overflowing with good ideas. The teacher in the nursery group would frequently comment to this child, "John, you are clever!" One day a parent said to the teacher, "Why. Are you always telling that. Child he's clever? Don't you think he'll. Become egocentric?" The teacher replied that she. Felt children's behavior was greatly influenced by the way others reacted to them both by words and deeds.. Sometime later John was watching a disgruntled repairman fixing a plugged up sink in the nursery school. As the repairman took off the gooseneck and found it filled with sand, it appeared he was going to explode. John, who had been watching the operation, looked up at the man's angry face and said, "My, you're clever to be able to fix that sink." The repairman's anger turned into a friendly smile as he said, "Well, I guess I am clever at that." 496 A fourth guide would be to feed into the child love, warmth, gentleness, and self-worth. Children learn what they live. A child who has received has something to give back. A fifth and concluding guide deals with letting the child know what is expected of him. Teach the child what to do rather than what not to do. Help the child see reasons, outcomes, and responsibilities. This is the opposite from threats and _ retaliations. Provide experiences whereby the child can develop innercontrol through understanding rather than control through fear. Mary had been cutting and pasting at the art table. When she was nearly finished with her picture she noticed how easily her scissors snipped off small corners and pieces of the paper. Mary snipped and watched the small pieces flutter to the floor. Soon it looked like snow and soon the floor looked like a real storm had hit. The teacher came to Mary and said, "When Mr. Bob, our custodian, comes in to clean tonight, he'll wonder what has been happening in this room." Mary thought for a moment and then replied, "I'll need to get this mess cleaned up, would you hold the dustpan while I sweep?" Make teaching your discipline and take the initiative to discuss, explain, interpret, and demonstrate desirable behavior. If your guidance relationship is constant and you are accepting of the fact that each experience will not be a successful one—it takes a long time to learn—eventually you will reach the goal of establishing self-worth and controls from within the child. Oe @ Lenora Peterson had hurriedly glanced at the clock as_ she popped the frozen peas into the steaming pot of chicken and noodles. Time had more than caught up with her, and the missionaries would be coming to dinner in about twenty minutes. She always tried to have the meal ready exactly when the elders arrived as time was so precious to them. Today had been unusually busy. At Relief Society that morning Sister Lemmon, the president, had asked her to stop by Sister Slack's home and pick up some ironing. After a few days home from the hospital with another new baby, Sister Slack had suffered a set-back and was ordered to bed by her doctor for a week or more. The Relief Society sisters were assisting the family with the work, food, and the small children. Lenora. Had spent most of the day ironing, so she could return it to Sister Slack later on tonight. I-do wish Maida would get home soon, she thought as she added a bit more salt to the noodles, she's such a big help when time is pressing. Maida had announced her intention of being a little late today, as it was the final tryouts for the high school musical. Of the ten who had competed for the coveted part, she was one of 497 July 1969 the three finalists. She had been an "almoster" the past three years, and had come so close to getting parts in the school productions that this last chance in her senior year was, at the moment, the most important thing in her life. L enora turned the flame down on the noodles and started buttering the French bread. As the knife smoothed the soft spread over the slices she smiled faintly, her eyes watered a bit, and her mind shifted in reverse to more than a decade ago. No matter how many times she prepared dinner for the missionaries, this backward glance was a mental ritual with her—a way of giving thanks for a second chance. Life had been so different and wonderful when she and George had moved from southeastern Idaho. Even though Church membership was large here on the West Coast, the saints were still a minority in this teeming metropolis, but the missionaries had found this a fruitful field. George had immediately befriended the missionaries and shared his own experiences with them. Knowing what a_ real home-cooked meal meant to a young missionary far away from home, he wanted to invite them to dinner, and Lenora had agreed wholeheartedly. She wanted it to be a very special meal. These young men so valiantly serving the Lord deserved the very best. For days she planned the meal, shifted the food budget, in order to buy the choicest steaks, and put an all-out effort into the occasion. Every minute of that first day that the elders came to 498 dinner was spent in cleaning every corner, making a table arrangement that resembled a page from Home Lovely, and preparing food fit for the most critical gourmet. It was worth it though —the way those hungry boys devoured every morsel, the praise they heaped on her, George's look of satisfaction. She had fed the children early, sent them to their rooms, and planned an after-dinner relaxation period around the fireplace with hot buttered popcorn, crisp apples, happy conversation, and a background of soft nostalgic stereo music. Her plans were shattered, though, as the elders had to eat and run in order to make an early evening appointment. It was some time before they were invited again. Such a meal played havoc with her grocery budget, and she expended so much time and energy in preparing it that she needed a couple of months' rest between invitations. Lenora put as much dedication into the second meal as she had the first, and the new elders praised her highly. She felt especially happy, and after bidding the young men _ goodbye, she went to check on the children. As she neared the bedroom she noticed the door was slightly open, and heard the children talking. Maida had a play telephone to her ear, and the first words Lenora caught were, "Yes, were having missionaries to dinner tonight." Lenora paused and_ smiled with deep satisfaction. How sweet she thought, children usu- ally imitate their parents in play. Having the missionaries to dinner is evidently making an impression on her. She stood outside unnoticed as Maida's conversation continued. "I'm sorry your baby suddenly got sick, Sister Nelson, but I can't take your Primary class today. The missionaries are coming to dinner. No, I can't tend your children while you go visiting teaching, Sister Gregerson. We're having the missionaries tonight." CART er te Loring - ee 5 eee » And then it was Vernon's voice. "No, you can't bring your friends in the house today. It must be clean for the missionaries tonight.... No, you can't eat at the table with us tonight. I don't want to be embarrassed by you or Maida spilling your milk, and baby Paul tossing food all over." The pleased look drained from Missionaries to Dinner Lenora's face. Somehow the replay of her own words sounded different from the original. It was Vernon again, "Ah, let's not play 'missionaries' any more. I'm tired of it." "But, Vern, when you go on your mission, you'll be invited out to dinner, and you've got to know all about it." "T don't wanna' go on a mission, 'cause when people ask missionaries to dinner, then the mother's not nice, and she can't do anything else to help anybody, and all she cares about is a clean house and fancy food, and the children have to eat sandwiches and then go to their room and [ just don't like it." Lenora's first reaction was to plunge into the room, and give her son a good tongue lashing for his failure to recognize her tireless efforts to serve the missionaries who were in turn serving the 499 July 1969 Lord. Instead, she dazedly found her way back to the living room and sat at the foot of the reclining chair where George was reading the evening paper. With tear-filled eyes and voice, she related to her husband what she had just overhead. George listened thoughtfully; then in his usual quiet manner commented, "Well, I guess we'll just have to make a few changes." "T know, dear, I would like to have the elders over again, but if this is the effect it's having on the children, we just won't be able to." "That's not exactly the type of change I had in mind. As I recall, some of my most pleasant meals in the mission field were when we took potluck with some of the members or investigators. That hash or watered-down soup tasted as good as if it had been served at the Waldorf-Astoria, because it was served in a homey atmosphere with warmth and love." "But, George, I've tried to serve the missionaries with warmth and love." "Of course you have, dear. You've probably tried so hard it's been a burden on you, and you didn't have enough energy left to be considerate to the children or your friends. How about trying it again soon, and see what can be done about changing the children's 'I-hatethe-missionaries-to-dinner' attitude to 'we-love-them-to-dinner' image." "Well, okay, George, I guess I'm willing to try." Lenora was a little skeptical, though. It had always been so important to her to have the 500 house spotless and the food superior when she entertained guests. "The ensuing days saw Lenora conducting a lot of self-analysis. Was she having the missionaries to dinner as a sincere gesture of love, or was she eager to show off an immaculate house and receive a shower of compliments for her superb cooking? Was she like the Pharisees who paid tithes, yet omitted the more important things of the law? Was she a bit guilty of swallowing the camel and straining at the gnat? She realized that in her narrow effort to perform one benevolent act, she had shunned the opportunity to perform many. Lenora knew it wouldn't be a fast or easy change, but she resolved to try. The next time missionaries were invited she planned it very carefully. She let the children decide on the menu, though she didn't mention guests were coming. How she hoped the elders could tolerate hot dogs on a stick and French fries. She cleaned the house the day before and arose extra early on the appointed day to add the finishing touches. All day she tried especially hard to be pleasant to the children. Though nervous and tense on the inside, she put on a good front before them. She let Vernon and Maida invite some of their neighborhood friends over to make cookies. This would create a happy experience for them and also provide dessert for dinner. All was going well. The children were blissfully up to their elbows in cooky dough, and the first try had been taken from the oven. Just as she had _ passed around the first samples and observed the looks of pleasure and accomplishment on their faces, the telephone rang. It was Annie next door. Her toddler had fallen and slashed his cheek on the table's edge. The cut looked deep, and Annie was sure stitches would be needed, so she needed Lenora to drive her to the doctor. Annie had a car at home. Why couldn't she drive to the doctor herself? Instinctively, Lenora said, "Oh, I'm sorry, Annie, but..." then caught herself. Quickly she shelved her uncharitable thoughts and realized a mother with a crying, bleeding baby would be in no condition to do any driving. | "I'm sorry, Annie," she repeated, "but it will take at least a minute before I can leave." She removed the sheet of halfbaked cookies from the oven, hurried the children to the car, and met Annie on the driveway. In a couple of hours they were back home with the injured baby repaired almost as good as new. Time was of the essence now. Lenora flew around her kitchen so fast she even surprised herself. But now the doorbell rang. It was Annie, beaming with gratitude. "Here, Lenora, I thought you might like these radishes for dinner. It's my first experience growing vegetables. I'm as proud as punch over them, and I want to share them with you." "Oh, Annie, how sweet of you. They'll be perfect in the salad. We're having two missionaries from our Church to dinner toMissionaries to Dinner night. They'll so appreciate home-grown radishes." "Oh, Lenora, why didn't you tell me before, and I could have had someone else drive us to the doctor?" Annie paused. "When I have guests for dinner I don't let anything else interfere. You're a real jewel." Lenora had to fight the pangs of self-righteousness after that compliment. She then seized the opportunity to tell her neighbor a bit about the missionary system of the Church. Somehow or other, dinner was ready on time. She had the children set the table and instructed them to set two extra places for the missionaries. Even though the silver was on the wrong side, She didn't have time to worry about it. As they devoured the hot dogs, the rest of the cookies were baking in the oven. How the elders exclaimed over the hot cookies and cold bottled peaches! And during the meal Maida spilled her milk and baby Paul tossed his food, but Lenora tried to take it calmly. Whaiie the children helped with the dishes, there were comments. "Those were the best dogs and fries... This has sure been a neat day." After a few more well-planned "missionaries-to-dinner" experiences, the children began remarking, "When are they coming again? Let's have them real soon." Gradually, then, Lenora began really to believe Mr. Emerson's philosophy—that persistence in doing increases one's capacity for that job. Soon the weighty tenseness of company to dinner 501 July 1969 disappeared, and it became a relaxed, enjoyable experience for herself, her family, and guests. She was amazed that a one-dish missionary meal, cooked in the oven while she taught a Primary class, could taste nearly as good as an all-day preparation of turkey and the trimmings. She was further amazed how on extra busy days when she had the missionaries to dinner, a fifteenminute cleaning on 'the front rooms could look almost like the two-hour job. Yes, Lenora had changed over the years, and how grateful she was for that opportunity of evesdropping on her children so long ago. The sudden slamming of the front door quickly brought Lenora back to the present. "Mom! Mom! I got the part. I really made it this time." Lenora ran through the hall, embraced her daughter. Their squeals of delight resembled a couple of pre-schoolers. "T'm sorry I'm late, Mom. I know we're having the elders to dinner, but they took so long making a decision... What can I do to help with dinner?" "How about getting out the greens from the crisper and making a quick salad?" "IT wonder," reflected Maida as she chopped the celery, "what my big brother will be having for dinner tonight." "Well," replied Lenora, "about right now Vernon is sleeping, but in a few hours he'll probably be eating Ris Grot and perhaps a side order of fish." "Or how about peanut butter sandwiches?" - Just as Maida placed the salad on the table, the five short and two long buzzes on the doorbell gave the signal that the elders had arrived. As the young girl headed for the door she paused at her mother's side, hugged her gently, and exclaimed, "Oh, Mom, I just love the whole world tonight. I love the judges who gave me the part I love you I love my missionary brother... And I especially love having missionaries to dinner." ¥, Dy SUMMER NIGHT And now in gentleness, the sun goes down. Last light of evening edging every hill with gold— Quietness now— Except the crickets' call. A lone hawk wheeling—whistles, The curlew calls for rain— And in every peaceful hollow Coolness lies again. 502 —Elizabeth Russell Calgary, Alberta, Canada ~ Woman's Sphere a Ramona W. Cannon Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency of the Church, has been honored by many student organizations and other groups of young people. A noted singer and beloved exemplary woman, her addresses and her singing have delighted collegiate and Church audiences. In April 1969, she was given a citation as an ''Ideal Woman"' by the Latter-day Saint co-eds at Utah State University, Logan, Utah. The subject of the meeting was ''The Eternal Quest of Womanhood,'' and Sister Smith addressed the young women, ame a solo, and participated in the music presented by a special chorus. Also, in April, Sister Smith was honored by Weber State College in the tabernacle, Ogden, Utah. President E. Lamar Buckner said that her visit was the highlight of the year, and that her singing thrilled everyone present. ''We are so grateful for your spirit of dedication,' he said. ''We want you to know that you hold a spot in our hearts, and we shail always be grateful to you for being with us.'' Sister Smith spoke of the young women as diamonds in a diadem of crown jewels, advising them to make a careful selection of the jewels for their crowns. Mrs. Evelyn LeTourneau, sixty-eight, of Longview, Texas, wife of industrialist-inventor Robert LeTourneau and mother of four sons and one daughter, was named American Mother of the Year in Los Angeles, California, last May. She was chosen, in part, because she lovingly extended her role of motherhood to students: the Winona Bible Camp groups she established in seven boys' ranches across the country and the student body of the LeTourneau Institute of Technology in Longview. Mrs. Elizabeth Peterson McKay, a seventy-two-year-old Latter-day Saint woman from Ogden, became Utah's Mother of the Year. She was left a widow with four sons and four daughters from one to sixteen years of age and through the heroic efforts of all, the children received excellent educations and have become distinguished members of Church and community. She is a woman of talents, sterling character, and refinement. Mrs. Edna C. Karlinsey, wife of Curtlee J. Karlinsey, Tacoma, Washington, a schoolteacher and mother of seven children, represented the State of Washington as Mother of the Year. An active Latter-day Saint, she has encouraged and assisted her children in attending college and serving missions for the Church. Her talents in teaching, oil painting, and homemaking are outstanding. Mrs. Jessie Lamb Stewart of Las Vegas, Nevada Mother of the Year, now a widow, reared four motherless children in addition to her own eight sons and daughters. A devoted Latter-day Saint, she has held numerous offices and teaching assignments in Relief Society. She assisted her husband in managing a large ranch and in raising cattle and thoroughbred horses. She is active in community affairs and in politics. A chorus of Singing Mothers from the Los Angeles area, directed by Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society, provided music for the Awards Luncheon on May 12th. Many of the 1969 Mothers visited Salt Lake City following the convention in California and were entertained by the Church and by Relief Society. President Belle S. Spafford is second vice-president of the American Mothers Association. 503 EDITORIAL / TO EACH IS GIVEN A GIFT For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God. (D&C 46:11.) (Italics added.) m In his loving-kindness God allows each person to come into the world possessing in his soul embryo gifts to be used and developed as one's free agency determines. While man's mind is veiled from a remembrance of his pre-mortal life, some of the seeds of his accomplishments there are born into mortality with him. The Father expects life to bring joy to his children. He prepares them for such joy by giving them the gifts with which to acquire it. One of the essential requirements of the Giver of Gifts is that the gift be used for the benefit of others ''that all may be profited thereby."' (D&C 46:12.) The use of these precious gifts selfishly, for personal gain alone is not the purpose for which they are given. The intention of the Lord is that gifts be magnified for the building of the kingdom. The rewards of such increase are that the gifts will be added upon. No one, we are told, lives to his fullest potential. Always there are greater goals to conquer. Efforts to reach that potential are crowned with the increased desire to do more and progress further. Gifts are to be sought. The prophets exhort the people to ''covet earnestly the best gifts."" (| Cor. 12:31.) The blessings of spiritual growth are contingent upon asking in faith for one or more of the gifts. Proficiency is to be gained by personal effort and constant prayer to God to bless those efforts. Gifts are many and varied. They encompass gifts of knowledge and understanding of gospel doctrine given by the Holy Ghost to talents in culture areas. Talents are given in music, literature, and art, in Volume 56 July 1969 Number 7 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Mittenberger, Acting SecretaryTreasurer 504 the realms of medicine, in aptitudes in educational pursuits, in the fields of engineering, and agriculture. The gifts are as diverse as the ability to love all of God's creations, a cheerful spirit, friendliness. To some is given the gift of leadership, to others the gift of following, not blindly but understandingly. Some are the lawgivers, the wise and Sagacious, others are the workers who uncover the secrets of nature. Some possess gifts that even they do not suspect until they are brought to light by obedience to commandments. Some gifts are never discovered because they are not sought. There are those who resist the disciplines the development of a talent requires. They will not accept the responsibility bestowed with the gift to work toward its fulfillment. The potential for greatness ts there but as a fallow field lies unused and dormant, idle in the sun, its potential for growth and production curtailed, so lie buried talents the owners fail to enlarge. These are the unprofitable servants of the parable of the talents whose condemnation is greater than the loss of the talent. Their condemnation is greater than they would have received had they not been given the gift. There are those who reject the gifts so willingly given by a loving Father, those whose self-afflicted blindness, whose spiritual unawareness prevent their accepting a glorious opportunity to use the gift in perfecting themselves and in helping build the kingdom of God. Relief Society is a marvelous gift given by our Heavenly Father to his daughters which some of the unseeing women of the Church have not yet accepted. The loss to themselves is great and to their families, husband, and children, but the loss to the building of the kingdom of God on earth is equally great. Failure to accept the God-given gifts results in failure to live most abundantly. Each gift is spiritual if used to elevate, to build, to make the world better. No gift is a small one. Its size is determined by the receiver. All gifts are given that each might contribute to the work of the Lord. —L. W. M. Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Otson Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill GENERAL BOARD: Anna B. Hart Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Edith S. Elliott Elsa T. Peterson Zola J. McGhie Lucille P. Peterson Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters — Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock 505 Is Not Veiled Marian Gardner Nielson @® When the three sisters, Gwen, Mary, and Maggie made the final decision, they knew there were still problems to be solved. Getting Gwen's three lively boys settled at Maggie's would entail planning and cajoling. Telephoning Mary's husband in New York about the change of plans was going to take some diplomacy. The real problem was getting their mother out of the hospital and then getting her comfortably and_ safely back home. The plan was simple on the surface. Gwen would go to Cedar Mesa on the plane with their mother. Maggie would keep Gwen's children, and Mary would drive down by car first to get the home ready for the mother's homecoming. 506 Gwen was washing the boys' play clothes, mending overalls, and folding and packing their Sunday clothes. She had a batch of bread in the oven. The baby's bed would be taken to Maggie's later. The trip would probably take four or five days, so She must leave plenty of clothes for the children. Gwen hoped she could get a batch of cookies made to take to Maggie. It would be the hardest on Maggie—what with four youngsters of her own—and she did look a little peaked lately. Gwen had wanted to get a baby sitter but Maggie had insisted on having the three little boys come to her place. Maggie had begun to carry out necessary plans, too. She had made room for Gwen's baby bed in the family room. Hy could set up two army cots in the boys' room. She would move her own baby bed into their bedroom. That way, everyone would be comfortable. She would make stew for the boys and maybe set some jello for dessert. Even thinking about food made her squeamish. You'd think after four babies. She hadn't told her sisters about her pregnancy. She knew what Gwen would say, "Well, that settles it! I am going to get Jane to come over." Mary was not looking forward to these eight hours of steady driving to Cedar Mesa. It had been nearly ten years since she had driven down that road—ten years of a successful career, and, she admitted wryly to herself, ten years of unsuccessful marriage. And the telephone conversation with James last night had not helped. She knew she had been too brisk, too impersonal on the phone, but habit was hard to break. "James, Mother is well enough to leave the hospital... Oh, she's fine. She said to tell you hello and she would like to see you QOh. Yes. Well, Gwen will go down with Mother on the plane. Maggie will keep Gwen's children, and I am leaving in the morning for Cedar Mesa to get the house ready.... Why? Well, I have no ties to keep me home."; When James asked "Mary, are you coming back here?" she had answered, "I don't know, James." His "Well, suit yourself' was as cold as her "Goodbye, James." Mary's hands tightened on the wheel. She had not let herself think of the marriage. That is, Love Is Not Veiled not until she had accepted the position with the publishing company. James had not objected, then. As she became successful in her work and spent more time at it, James became resentful. He objected when she spent the summer in Europe for the firm. Why couldn't he accept her success? The house was fine and the cook served better meals than Mary could prepare. She had tried to get close to James again, to get their marriage on an even keel. But now it was a cool neutrality. She was not sure that she wanted to go back to New York—especially since she had stayed in Gwen's comfortably furnished home with its confusion and love. And in the shabby, bulging home where Maggie was a lovely and beloved wife and mother. It was not until Mary came to the Colorado River that she threw off her unhappy mood and began to notice the spectacular scenery. She still missed the narrow, colorful, trestle bridge which had spanned the river when she was a girl, however the sheer red cliffs were still blazing in the sun, their dark shadows darker still because of the intense sun-glare of their lacquered surfaces. She slowed down to catch glimpses of her favorite places. Here was the famous fault that her geology professor had told the class about. There was the little meadow where the five quaking aspens grew—and there they were! But they were taller, with their golden leaves twinkling in the sunlight. She glanced at the familiar 507 Opened Windows, and aired out €ach room as She went from one When the boys Snuggled under the warm, tied Wool quilts! The long table in the dining room Was stil] Scarred Where the table tennis net had been Screwed on too tight] y. The big, sunn y kitchen Still echoed With the Sounds of pulling honey candy, and sitting down to Mother's cooked dinners. She had stepped quietly into the corner bedroom and had felt the presence of her father and mother still there. It was a good house. It was a good feeling Mary had as she went through it. She touched the familiar pictures, ran her fingers along the faded and broken piano keys. Even in the daylight she switched on the lights in the living room to see if she could catch the rainbows in the prisms of the chandelier the whole family loved. She still wondered why her father had never bought a dishwasher. It would have saved her mother so many hours. Well, if she was going to get to the Merc before closing time, she'd better go. She decided to walk the three blocks to the store. She was stiff from driving and the walk would do her good. Besides —she might see some of her old friends or her mother's friends. Too, she would have to pass Aunt Irene's. Perhaps she would be working among her roses where she was usually seen. It had been difficult to explain to James' friends that all her "Aunts" were really not Aunts at all, but were the older women she knew and loved. Everyone called these dear friends "Aunts." Call them "Mrs Galbraith" or "Mrs. Taylor'? That was too formal for Cedar Mesa folk. It had sounded a little provincial, later, when she thought about it. But home again at Cedar Mesa it sounded all right to talk about "Aunt Irene" and "Aunt Hattie" and all the rest. They seemed closer to you, that way. Aunt Irene wasn't in her roLove Is Not Veiled ses when Mary passed her house. She stopped at the telephone office and asked to have her mother's phone connected. She walked into the Merc, took a basket and selected the groceries she would need. The clerks were all strangers, the few people in the store busy with their own buying. When she paid the bill she felt distinctly let down. Old Home Town, indeed! On the corner near home she met Ruth Murphy—Ruth Layman she was now—the tall wearylooking woman informed her. But Ruth was in a hurry to get supper for her large family so she spent little time talking. "T'm so glad your mother is coming home. We've all missed her—and worried about her." "She had a rough time, Ruth, but the doctor says she will be all right. She's coming in a day or so. I'll stay until she is up and around and can do for herself." "Well, we must get the old crowd together while you're here. I'll give you a ring. See you later, Mary." Ruth hurried down the street to her small trailer house. The feeling of not belonging persisted. Mary was tired. She wanted to get right home, take a shower and get into her bed. She hoped she wouldn't see anyone else now; she didn't feel like talking. She saw Johnny Jones, her father's old friend, hobble out of his lot to intercept her, but she pretended not to see him and hurried along faster. But the minute she stepped into the house, serenity returned and Mary became receptive to the enfolding arms of the dear home. She fixed a sandwich and 509 July 1969 a glass of milk and went into the living room to eat it. She picked up an open book from the table, Collection of Great Poems, and leafed through its pages. It was a favorite -book of her mother's and the penned comments on the page margins brought the beloved voice into focus reading to the children in the evenings. When she finally closed the volume and placed it almost reverently on the table, she was ready for bed. She was going to plan her work for the next day, but dropped off to sleep immediately. It was a bright hushed morning when she awoke. For amoment she felt as she did years before when she was waking in that same room—a sense of anticipation, a surge of interest, a feeling of expectancy. A knock on the door brought her to her feet. "I'm coming," she called. "just a minute." "Oh, Mary, it's just your old Aunt Gen. [I'm already in." She peered around the door. "How good to see you. You haven't -changed a bit still the prettiest girl in town!" She planted a quick kiss on Mary's surprised face. "So your mother's coming home tomorrow! We've been keeping in touch with Gwen. It will be so wonderful to have her back. You know," Aunt Gen spoke tenderly, "you look more like her than any of the girls." Quick tears stung Mary's eyes as she held the frail woman close. "That's the nicest thing anyone has said to me for years. Come and sit down Aunt Gen, and 510 what do you have under that napkin?" "Just a few cinnamon rolls for your breakfast. I knew you wouldn't stop to cook anything." She surveyed Mary with bright black eyes. "You're too thin. And your eyes tell me you are not happy. What's the matter?" Mary laughed. "Oh, Aunt Gen, you always did say my eyes gave me away. You're wrong. I'm —fine. And now that I'm home, I'm beginning to be myself again." Aunt Gen noticed the slight hesitation, but she changed the subject. "You see, I have on my working apron. I am going to stay and help you get this house all ready for your mother's return. Oh, I know," she shook her head, "you think you can do it alone. Well, maybe you can, but we're going to help." "We?" "Certainly... Irene, Lydie, Addie, and Natalie. Do you think we girls would let your mother down? After sixty years of being as close as we are? Not for one minute! Now eat your rolls, child." Mary sat down and helplessly watched Aunt Gen take over— as she always did. The cinnamon rolls were warm and sweet and she ate the three without even once thinking of her diet. Aunt Irene brought a casserole and greeted Mary with love and a few happy tears. Aunt Lydie and Aunt Addie came in talking a blue streak... Not expecting Mary to answer. Aunt Natalie was late, but her warm greeting and her gentle manner made Mary realize why her mother loved Natalie so much. It was a lovely day. Actually, Mary didn't accomplish much. Every time she started to dust or vacuum or wash windows one of the aunts firmly pushed her aside. Mostly, she listened to the familiar stories, laughed at the same anecdotes, and hummed the same nostalgic songs. Just as the sun stepped behind the Bear's Ears and flung its painted shafts at the drowsy sky, the women finished their work. Gwen called later that night to say that the plane would land at the airport at Cedar Mesa at four-thirty the next afternoon. Mary called Aunt Irene who said she would tell the others. "Don't cook your roast, Mary, save it for another day. I am bringing chicken a la Maryland that your mother likes so well." "But, Aunt Irene." "Now, Mary! I'm in a hurry. Goodbye." The next morning Mary rose early. She went out to the strawberry patch and picked a bowl of the plump sweet berries. As she washed them she thought how her mother liked them and how proud she was of her berry ¢, patch. All morning neighbors came in and greeted her with familiar affection. They were all so happy that her mother was coming home. Shy Mrs. Sanchez, who helped with the ironing, brought a basket of peppers—huge green bell peppers, round orange-red pimentos, long, pale-green mild ones and slim, dark-green hot ones. Becky brought a big apple pie, freshly baked. The little schoolteacher's wife, whom her mother had befriended, slipped her choice casserole into the Love Is Not Veiled oven. Aunt Gladys brought a loaf of her stone ground brown bread. There were bottles of sour cherry jelly, Doris' pretty pickles, a ground raisin cake, and a tin of rolls almost ready for the oven. Mary could only thank the people, her voice choking on inadequate words. How hospitable they were! How could she have forgotten her mother's lovely friends? Yes, and hers, too. How could she have cast aside these cherished customs? The first thing her mother saw when she got home from the airport were the fresh flowers. The house was full of them: roses in tall vases; late velvety clematis in a low crystal bowl; zinnias, asters, petunias, and a pottery jar filled with brown-hearted sunflowers. Mary gasped in surprise. 511 July 1969 "The Garden Club! How they must have worked to get them all here, fresh and smiling," her mother exclaimed. She wandered slowly through the shiny rooms smelling the fragrant bouquets, noting gleaming windows and crisp curtains. At last she settled down in her own room. "How good to be home. How wonderful to be in my own room again. God has been good to me. He sent love to make me happy. He sent comfort to me when I was sorrowful. Children and all of my friends to sustain me in my illness. I am so grateful for his sharing these 'things with me." Shey looked up at Mary, her He sent you words tender, meaningful. "Sharing is a part of life, Mary. You have to be able to receive, by knowing how to give." Mary nodded. She took Gwen's hand and the two sisters left, their mother's understanding smile blessing them. It was late that night that Mary made up her mind. She put in the call to James in New York, her hand unsteady on the receiver. When he answered she could hardly bring herself to speak. Then, humbly, sincerely, with sweet tones of love, she said, "James, do you really want me to come home?" And the sudden radiance in her face lighted up the whole room. OaS> THE INFINITE COMPOSER The great composer sat within his room, And wrote a part for every instrument, He blended wondrous themes into a whole Most beautiful, and yet: so quickly spent. But there is one whose genius is more great, His work is far more beautiful to see, He blended. All live things, all natural sounds Into an everlasting symphony. He took the mighty ocean's angry roar And tempered it with plaintive cries of gulls, The calls of cormorants and guillemots, Which fly for shelter till the great storm lulls. He shaped the rolling uplands, and the plains With March wind whispering through the waving grass, With shyest creatures swiftly burrow bound As human steps approach, and gently pass. He sent the speeding comet on its course That each might have free passage on its flight, Then massed the myriad-stars of Milky Way Into a highway of celestial light. His orchestra is heard throughout the world, In jungle, mountain, desert plain, and fjord, His music is eternal, and his skill Is absolute, he is our gracious Lord. 512 —Gillian G. Brown-Lee Worcester, Worcs., England Photograph by Willard Luc Great-grandmother Struggle the Of thirtee h relentless length " hundred thistleq Miles o €r days knew f Plain; Cartbreak, but s From faith. (Her tyr; © 8arnered Strength C spirit Scoffed at ain. Reat-grandmoth r | Y wint her Valley. There rush of joy, Y planks of Prayer, S Could destroy, Maxine p Jennings inside and out Varma Counted Flavor—Not Calories Edythe K. Watson, Member, General Board of Relief Society w Mama left a legacy of happy memories for her family. Our friends and relatives young and old loved to come to her gracious, hospitable home. Some who knew Mama best said it was because she was generous, kind, and witty, with a penchant for making every guest feel special and welcome. To this I wholeheartedly agree, but Mama had something else which drew people to her. Mama was an excellent cook. She liked nothing better than to share her cuisine with those she loved.. Unfortunately for her daughters, Mama never used a recipe. All of her dishes were concocted by feel, consistency, or taste. A pinch of this or a handful of that. Mama didn't even own measuring cups or spoons. One of the happiest memories Mama left her children was our annual trip to "the Lakes." Mama prepared for several days for this special event. I can close my eyes now and it seems as though I can almost taste some of her special goodies. As the tantalizing aroma from Mama's preparatory baking permeated the air, it appeared that it touched off the appetite alarms of all the youngsters in our neighborhood and those children who came to our kitchen door never went away hungry. For the long drive to "the Lakes," our outing site, Mama usually brought a lunch of milk, cinnamon buns, or slices of raisin and nut bread spread with freshly churned butter. She would pack them in the folds of snowy white dish cloths to keep them fresh, since wax paper or plastic wrap had never been heard of in our town. There 514 Mamma Counted Flavor—Not Calories was always just enough food to appease our hunger but not too much to spoil our appetites for the picnic to follow. And what a picnic! Our favorite food was Mama's baked beans. Their cooking was an all-day process. How we loved the smell of the molasses and brown sugar, mustard, and the salt pork nestled cozily among the brown beans. Combined, they produced a flavor that was delectable. Homemade root beer was a must. This was an exciting change from milk or the ever-popular lemonade. Mama's root beer had a special tang. We all loved the bottling process and as we put the corks into the bottle tops and tied them securely to the bottle with string, we would beg Mama to put our mark on just one bottle reserved especially for each of us. In our home town, most everyone had at least a small garden. Fresh vegetables were common fare. Mama said they were good for us and so she used them in every possible way. Happily, Mama had the knack for giving even the lowlhest variety a special flavor. Pickled cucumbers were our special favorites so Mama always included them as part of our picnic menu. Wheat was indeed the staff of life in our home. Mama used it in a variety of ways. From a breakfast food which she simmered for hours on the back of our coal range, to hot cakes, baking powder biscuits, buns, scones, to wonderful crusty homemade bread. We loved to spread fat slices of this bread with cream skimmed from the milk pan and flavored with sugar, or covered and dripping with honey or syrup. Long loaves of what we now call French bread were our favorite for an outing. What is so delightful as homemade ice cream? No picnic or outing was complete in our family without it. Since Mama _ never counted calories, her ice cream was rich and delicious. The best and sweetest part was that which some lucky individual would lick from the dasher. Mama made many flavors and each kind we would avow to be our favorite. Try a delicious peach variety for your family. A dripper cake, usually Mama's special fudge cake recipe, completed our lunch. Even though we had eaten our fill we could never resist this special treat. Papa always concluded our picnics by arising to his feet and proclaiming that this picnic was the best ever. His only complaint being that he had eaten too much. Why did she make everything taste so good? Then, one by one, each one of Mama's children in his own way would echo Papa's words. Many of you, like Mama's children, have treasured memories. Many of you, as we do, long for "Mama's" cooking. Why not plan a family outing and try these recipes or those you and your family enjoyed and remember so well? Several of the following recipes have been adapted from Mama's original ingredients and methods of preparation, -and the other recipes included have been contributed by friends. 515 N BUNS 3c. Flour Y2 tsp. Salt 3. Buttermilk, roo CINNAMO m temperature Vy c. Sugar \ water. Combine ingredi dd the following (0 thoroughly an hour longer. 1 tsp. Soda 3}/2 c. Flour n of dough into ar nd 2 Craisins. Ght. Roll portio 2 innamon 4 V4 Cc. SURAT: ace on _ While bu T BEER t beer eX e recipe with roo qa strainer nd pour through HOMEMADE ROO iven in th ccording to nd instructions g y hops in 2 C. Ater a e. Bottle and cap 2 tra flavor, oll Add this to the commercial recip \SCUITS 2c. Sifted flour V2 tsp. Salt Ye C. Shortening 1 beaten eg 1 tbsp. Sugar {sp. Baking - a ac. Mi \ til, mixture resembles coarse and milk and sides of bowl. Turn on \ 34 inch thickness. Cut wit 516 Mamma Counted Flavor—Not Calories PICKLED CUCUMBERS 2 large cucumbers, peeled 1 c. Water and sliced thin 2c. Vinegar 6 green onions, chopped V3 Cc. Sugar fine salt and pepper to taste Combine all ingredients in covered dish and let stand for 6 to 8 hours, or until ready to serve. FRENCH BREAD 3 c. Warm water 3 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar 8 c. Flour (approximate) 2 tbsp. Melted shortening evaporated milk 2 tbsp. Dry yeast sesame seeds Combine warm water, sugar, shortening, dry yeast and salt, and let yeast dissolve. Add flour and mix. Make dough a little stiffer than ordinary white bread dough. Let rise for one hour. Divide dough into five equal parts, or as many as you would like. The more loaves you make from the recipe, the more crust you will have. Form the dough into loaves by placing it on a breadboard, pressing out the air and then rolling tightly to form an oblong loaf. Pinch the dough together at the ends to seal the edges. Roll in evaporated milk and then in sesame seeds. Place on greased cookie sheets as far apart as necessary to keep the loaves from touching each other when they rise. Let rise, uncovered, for 12 hours. Bake at 375° for about 30 to 45 minutes or until bread reaches desired brownness. Remove bread from the oven, cut in big crusty pieces, and serve spread with butter. PEACH ICE CREAM 3 c. Mashed peaches juice of 1 orange (about 4 large peaches) ' 1 pt. Whipping cream 3 c. Sugar 1 qt. Milk juice of 212 lemons 1 can condensed milk Combine mashed peaches, sugar, lemon juice, and orange juice and let stand at room temperature for 2 to 3 hours. Lemon juice will keep fruit from discoloring. Pour mixture into a four-quart ice cream freezer and add whipping cream, milk, and condensed milk. FUDGE CAKE 3-squares chocolate 1 tsp. Soda Yo c. Milk 2 c. Flour Y2 c. Shortening YZ tsp. Salt 1% c. Sugar lc. Milk 3 eggs, separated 1 c. Nuts 1 tbsp. Water 1 tsp. Vanilla Melt chocolate in %2 c. Milk over medium heat. Cream shortening and sugar. Add egg yolks one at a time, beating well after each addition. Pour melted chocolate mixture. Sift flour and salt together and add alternately with 1 c. Milk. Dissolve soda in 1 tbsp. Water and stir into batter. Add vanilla and nuts. Beat egg whites until stiff and fold into batter. Bake in greased dripper cake pan in moderate oven (350°) for 45 minutes. FROSTING Melt 1 square chocolate and '%2 square butter or margarine. Add 1 beaten egg and 14% to 2 cups powdered sugar and beat vigorously. 517 A Brace of Horses learn from fiction. Biography is the story of one man, fiction offers an account of mankind. Resolve to read a good book each month or even each week. Then make the effort to live up to your resolve. "Picking the brains" of others sounds almost unpardonable, but that is what the mentally alert do every day of their lives. If you meet a ceramic artist, learn about ceramics. If you meet an old-timer, learn more about your community. If you meet a scout-explorer, learn more about mountaineering. Reach out for these opportunities. A group of seventy-five adults living near the Huntington library where rare book exhibits are always open free to the public, was asked how often each of the group visited the library. Some had never been there. Some had been only when taking out-of-town guests. Only three visited with each change of exhibit. If there are libraries, museums, art galleries in your area, you may decide to grow mentally through visiting these places. Perhaps you want to pull out of your rut in a really big way. Plan to attend some adult education or college extension classes. Even go back to school if there is an opportunity in your area. The really tragic thing is to get into a spiritual rut. "For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Matt. 16:26.) Have you grown careless and substituted routine Church activity for real spirituality? Church attendance is excellent, but unless it is an evidence of a "hunger and thirst after righteousness," you will still find yourself in a rut. Don't go to Church only to have your body counted. Perhaps you no longer take time to prepare yourself to pray. To really commune with God and hear his answers to our prayers we must close everything else out of our minds. Our minds must be open to receive the help and the solace that prayer can bring. You can find spiritual experience in reading the scriptures. Why don't you try reading any of the scriptures straight through with a good commentary at your elbow? You will find it a rich experience. Ruts are dangerous not only for a low-centered car on a high-centered road, but for any man or woman, boy or girl, who has ever read the commandment, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." (Matt. 5:48.) Remember that it takes just a brace of horses whose names are Resolution and Effort to free you and set you high on the shoulder again. QF GRANDMA'S COOKIES No one could make the cookies just like she could, Some were soft and spicy, raisin filled, Others were real crunchy, topped with sugar, At making brownies she was highly skilled. For holidays she used her special cutters, Hearts, and stars, and chubby boys and girls, Ginger, butterscotch, and plain vanilla, Baked and trimmed with little frosting swirls. Her cookie jar was very seldom empty, She always seemed delighted when we'd come, And what was best of all about her cookies, She invited one and all to, ''Please try some." —Ruth G. Rothe 519 Of the big Wooden Churn. Round 4nd round Went the Paddles jnSide, and [| could hear the sour Cream clogs 4nd forth as | imagined little Pieces of utter eginning to form. Soon Sister Carey removed the lid and Paddles from the churn, and tak; She fathered the clus ter, and Placed them In bowl]. With a broad r ery Carefully, | laid the Cardboard and butter mM the Small] Wire basket that w S hooked Securely to the handle bars of My bike. Ag I Started back dow € road, © summery rain Clouds dar €ned, an ft Sprin &S of water began ¢ dampen the earth. Was glad I Ulried as st m young €8S could pedal me I held on to the handle bars tightly as | rode the ur blocks toward home, for I did 't want anythin t appen to the Soft, Precioy contents in ¢ wire basket. But appen it dj » Without any warn- July 1969 of blood were standing on the bruise as if it was a big decision as to whether they should stay on the surface or trickle down my leg. I was on the verge of tears when, suddenly, I saw the parchment paper, its contents splattered every which way in a mass of yellow ruin. The tears that had gathered close to my eyelids flowed over the edge and down my face. "Good old expensive stuff," I cried, as I saw that only a small amount of butter remained on the paper. I picked it up ever so carefully and hoped with all my heart that it would be enough for supper. "It's doubtful," I murmured to myself as I pushed the bike the remaining distance home. "I'm sure this isn't enough for nine of us to share." I parked the bicycle and walked slowly to the house wishing I was someone else's little girl, so I wouldn't have to go inside. But I wasn't someone else's, I was our own little girl, leas and I opened up the door and stepped into the kitchen. The table was set, and our 522 family was starting to sit down; so no one noticed me for a minute.; "Here's the butter," I said in a sad, weak voice. Mama was at the stove pouring the beans into a bowl. "What kept you so long?" she asked, not looking around. I walked over to her and stretched out my arm. The paper and butter, on the palm of my hand, were very close to her face. She stepped back to avoid being smeared, and a trace of a frown appeared on her forehead as she raised one eyebrow slightly. Then looking at me, all tearstained and skinned, she said with the real concern of a loving mother, "You've had an accident." She began immediately to examine my knee. "It isn't too bad—go and wash up," and she gave me a hug as she took the butter. "Will there be enough for supper?" I asked anxiously as I dried my hands. Mama looked at the contents on the parchment. It appeared to be clean, so she carefully scraped it into the butter dish. "Yes, I'm sure there is enough," she reassured me, kindly, and going to the table, she set the dish by the bread. I slipped quietly into my place as Mama sat down on her chair. "There are plenty of beans, cool milk, fresh warm bread, and a jar of strawberry jam," she said after we had said the blessing on the food, "so there will be no need for any of us to use more than just a dab of butter tonight." Everyone smiled, and I was ever so glad that I wasn't someone else's little girl. Her Hobby Is Writing @ Bertha Anderson Kleinman, Mesa, Arizona, has brought distinction to herself, to her State, and to the Church through her well-developed and _ useful hobby of writing. Her verbal architecture encompasses many fields, from prose and poetry to hymn lyrics and pageants. Her childhood home was situated on the rim of the north bench adjacent to City Creek Canyon in Salt Lake City. On this commanding location, her father erected a pretentious home for those times. Here Bertha grew to womanhood among orchards of fruitful and beautiful trees, lilac hedges, shrubbery, and _ terraced lawns. She watched the sun rise over the magnificent rugged Wasatch Range and watched it set in splendor over the great inland sea to the west. The ever-changing beauties of the Rockies lent color and majesty to her poetic nature and influenced her writing of the glowing tributes to the great western empire of which she is so much a part. About her writing, Sister Kleinman says: "If anything that I have written can help someone else, that is my favorite." Primary children love to sing her well-known "I Have Two Little Hands."' Soon after her marriage to Orson Kleinman, she moved to Arizona and became one of the most prominent literary women of that area. She has been described as an outstanding citizen and Church member. In 1957, the Governor of Arizona _proclaimed November 3d as Bertha Kleinman day in recognition of her many published works regarding the State of Arizona. She earned the title "Poet Laureate of Arizona." She received the David O. McKay Humanities award at commencement exercises at Bngham Young University in 1958, largely in honor of the pageant "The Message of the Ages," a literary memorial to 100 years of Mormonism, perhaps the best known of her works. She updated the text in 1947 to include the pioneers coming into the valley. This pageant was produced every night for six weeks in the Tabernacle on Temple Square. Sister Kleinman was honored by the King of Denmark for her writings about the land of her ancestry. Her writings have appeared many times in The Relief Society Magazine, and in the other Church publications, and she has had a book of poetry published which is now sought after as a collector's item. At the age of ninety-three, she continues to write lovely and moving poetry. Her six children and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren revere her and are proud of the rich heritage of her written words. Always a devoted Relief Society worker, she was recently honored by the Relief Society of the East Mesa Stake for her untiring service and dedication. 523 Budget Decorating gs From earliest history woman has endeavored to decorate, as elegantly as possible, the walls that surround herself and family. And of all the mural treatments developed through the years, tapestry has generally been rated as the most magnificent. Fantastically intricate and expensive, tapestries usually occupied a place of honor in the homes of royal and wealthy families and were prominently displayed at important public occasions. While you may not wish to apprentice for twelve to fifteen years (the usual learning time) in order to weave one square yard of tapestry in about a year's time, you may still appreciate the effects of fabric on your wall. Modern technology can help you! If your decor is the now-popular Spanish, select a large terry bath towel—one of those richly colored, highly-sculptured ones—for a hallway or appropriate space under which you can place a heavy reed basket or old trunk, repainted. An attractive and most effective duo. Kitchen terry towels hold promise, too, in creating a tapestry effect that may blend with early American or "modern kitchen." Fruit and flower designs are plentiful. Printed fabrics, padded and quilted, may be hung as tapestries, and panels of sample drapery—with large classic print design—may even be utilized in the traditional bedroom or living room by the mural-minded. Or you may sew twill tape loops to a foam-backed bath mat, as pictured, and hang it from an inexpensive curtain rod or dowel. Here the motif is repeated underneath in a made-at-home flower tree of matching blue and green plastic roses. These are held in place by a three-inch styrofoam ball on a one-half inch dowel and secured in plaster of Paris. The tub is plastic. This combination can be made in an hour for less than $5. Just right for the bathroom or kitchen. Use your imagination, and let modern looms work wonders for your walls. You won't have a Flemish masterpiece, true. You won't even have a real tapestry (which can only be made by a unique and intricate weaving method) but your home can benefit nonetheless from the centuries'-old tapestry touch. WINGED PEACE At the feeder swinging in fringed light a hummingbird and a bee drink together. A breeze rocks the branch, but sound only catches swooping wings, a dizzy buzz. The bee stitches back over ivy geranium. The bird is a blur of suspension, is gone. Small presence. Small absence but the rearrangement of air is a patch of pleasure on a drowsy afternoon. —Bernice Ames 525 HEART Room FoR Hom: Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 2 SYNOPSIS: Mary Ann and Kim Freeman take Kim's father from his home in Mayville, Utah, to their home in Los Angeles to care for him after an accident, in which his hip has been broken. His coming will constitute an upheaval in their way of living, as Mary Ann will have to break her contract as a teacher in order to care for him. This will halve their income at the crucial time when their last two unmarried children are dependent on it—Tommy for his last year in college and Rosemary for her wedding, both events the following June. It is now October. The parents are apprehensive about Rosemary's _ reaction, especially, as she has a demanding personality. @ Rosemary was her charming best throughout the slow process of the dinner after they had made her grandfather comfortable—and he sparkled under her attention. "Grandfather, is my little grotto still there?" "Yes, honey. The grandchildren play there by the hour." 526 "But you made it for me, didn't you? Chisled it out of pure rock." "Indeed I did, but the water had done most of it. It was yours before it was anybody else's." Rosemary dimpled with pleasure. "You know when they had those adorable, ugly troll dolls? My college friends couldn't imagine why I collected them. It was so I could take them there and put them in their own setting, and someday I mean to." It was Tommy who voluntered his room for his grandfather, as Mary Ann hoped he would. "Because it is closest to the bathroom," and moved his things to the one vacated by Robert, which they had used as a guest room since, while Rosemary made the bed ready for her grandfather. "Such willing hands!" said their grandfather. "I feel as if I had dropped into a bed of roses. Everybody is so nice to me, and I don't know why—a useless old man." "Grandpa!" Tommy and Rosemary protested in unison. "You could be useless forty years and not live up your credit," Tommy went on. "How I loved my summers with you in Mayville!" "That's real nice of you children to say," said Father Freeman, "but mind you, stop me if I get to repeating myself. I've taken to reminiscing and I forget things, tell things over and over, can't remember what I've done and haven't done. I have to keep a list, I'm so old." "Dad, I do the same things," put in Kim. "Well, youre not so young yourself," said his father, looking at him astutely. "This doddering of the mind is a terrible trial to the young." "He's a darling!" pronounced Rosemary when they got back to the living room. "He looks like an angel with that shock of white hair." "T had forgotten what a beautiful old man Grandfather is," said Tommy. "But he's so pale he looks ethereal. Is anything else wrong with him—besides the hip?" "He isin remarkable condition, except for his heart. It could go any time, the doctor says, but with good care he can walk again." "With good care," said Rosemary, the little frown appearing between her brows. 'What I want to know is." "How's Cary?' demanded Mary Ann suddenly, to head Heart Room For Home off the inevitable showdown. Cary Marks was Rosemary's adored and adoring fiance, a tall, clean-limbed young man, dark and handsome in contrast to her titian loveliness. "Cary's a doll," said Rosemary, her mouth softening. "He helped me with dinner, getting the groceries. He's going to be a wonderful husband, but I told him to vamoose. I knew you'd be home, and that you would be tired." "How thoughtful of you, dear, and we are tired. Exhausted, and we're going to bed this minute." "IT didn't know then that Grandfather...." "How are Robert and Heidi? Have you heard from James? How are the girls?" Mary Ann interposed quickly. If Rosemary had a night to get used to her grandfather's presence, maybe the impact would dissipate. Tomorrow was Sunday. It might even get lost in the rush of Church duties.. You are diverting me," accused Rosemary. "Barbara and Hank wanted to come and be here when you came, but I vetoed that, too. So did Jennifer and Dick—but all those little kids!" Jennifer's five were lively and noisy. Barbara's were older. "Robert had to fly to New York for his company—they might go there to live—so Heidi went with him. It was a good chance for a vacation, with only her fare to pay. Heidi's mother is staying with the children." "To New York to live!" said Kim. "That will be a step up for Robert won't it." 527 ary Ann finning, thought It was Just "It has been £00d having them y leniene »and[ w Near. [f hey MOve to New York he t we'll never Set to see them." ¢ a bd ade a board n I wa about to O take him the p NCipal. Byt In San Francisco We rarely | Noticed th t he did all right See his family," When [| de verbal] assignments "T know." Wailed Mary Ann. And it Puzzled me. All a once 'Distances are othing, NOWait ned o e. He Can't see days," consoled Kim. "These the Oard!" Young ones flit around with mor y oSemary, how Smart! Ang fase than you IT used to how "OMpassionate! What did Set from ene town to another." You do?" "Cary and J Might £0 to Eur. "Saw that he 80t glasses right Ope," said Rosemary. "And JenWay. His Parents were dumnifer and Dick are talking of founded. ©S my star Pupil foing to Wall. He has an ofnow!" fer at Church College," "Tm thrilled You know, | "Don't talk a Out it," Said always fee] there are no bad chil Mary Ann, « OW what about en on bad "ITcumstances the School, Rosemary?" Not at that ase, anyway " Rosema Y had been her inex. Ommy was Silent, but he had Perienced, b educated Substibser alr, as he had ver ute in th fourth 8rade while h, late R ary noticed She had been One, having 8radjt uated in A Sust, too late to get "Tom Y, you're making gui 4 contract f h wn, but she nea pigs US. Do yoy take adn't Seem t Ind. « ''m notes?" not going t rk, anyhow, go "Yes," admitted T mmy,. "Vy WAY start" ha Said. "J hesis quarter jg coming up and Want to Concentrate nN havin ee e 4 perfect Wedding." Nots, but it has been oVer-explored, Now I a Open to Mary Ann's Surprise Rose. Ew SUggestions This Might be Mary brightened at the me tion o thin —what Oth ays, no of School. Ad kj S, on] bad Situations "M er, yoy Now that Or wha you did, Sis, 'The Role little —Freddy Mch—yoy of th €acher' op 'Above and Said wa 4 problem child? €yond the Call of th Three found 6 hat wa the Matter Pec, Earlier today, Watching With him? You and Cary, | almost €cided "You idn't! J] elt he had On 'Brida] OSSines Before Problem, ut didn't have tj e Marriage.' » £0 into it before we left. Wh "You Wouldn't dare!" Wailed Is the Matter With him?" Rosemary. "Well, it Was like this," "Only because I would run Rosemary q begin t the be. Out of Materia]; 528 need to know something firsthand, and you know my stand." Wes, 'Tommy's stand: "No romantic entanglements before I go on my mission," "No marriage before I get my Master's," and now, none before he got his degree, had been of growing concern for his parents. Tommy was twenty-four. "Tt just isn't normal for a boy not to fall in love somewhere along the line," said Kim. "IT give myself a chance," defended Tommy. "I date." "Yes!" said. Rosemary. "A - different one every week. Mother, he drops them over nothing. All Janie did was to call him,-and ' that was it!" "T don't: want girls calling me up," said Tommy. "I want to be the one who does the calling." "I can't disagree with that," said his mother. "When I was a girl no young lady called a boy up. It is no more proper now." "When Tommy falls it will be like atom-fission. I don't know that I want to be around then." "What happened to Phyllis— and Melba?" queried Mary Ann. "T thought they were nice girls." "Dream-boats, both of them," said Tommy. "But they wanted to get married. I didn't." "I hope, Tommy," said Kim, "that you are not like Kipling; "The more I see of the lot of them, the less I am settled to one.' " "The young man hunting a straight stick in the forest? No, Dad, when I am ready, she will be there—the straightest one of them all." "T hope," said Mary Ann, "that you don't get any of them to Heart Room For Home fall in love with you, then leave them to pine after you." "They'll survive," said Tommy callously. "You should have seen the 'Dear John's' my companions in the mission field received." "Maybe that should be your thesis subject," observed Rosemary. "Most of my studies have been on geriatrics. It intrigues me. Grandfather, now." "What about Grandfather?" demanded Rosemary. "What I want to know, if he has to have so much good care, is how is he going to get it here? How long is he going to stay?" She was looking at her father. He looked at Mary Ann. Here it was! "I'm going to take care of him," said Mary Ann. "How can you, with your job?" "T have to break my contract. Monday." "Just like that?" "There wasn't any other way out, Rosemary." "Couldn't Aunt Emily or Aunt Francine have taken Grandfather? At least until summer?" "They thought otherwise," said Kim. "They wanted to sell the place and put your grandfather in a rest home." "Sell the place!" said Rosemary and Tommy in_ unison. This reaction, so like their own, was at least heartwarming to "Kim and Mary Ann. "T often describe Grandfather's set-up in class, an almost totally self-containing unit—the. Cows, the chickens and garden feed the table and the table feeds the pigs. The pigs and extra produce go to market. One blissful round of living." July 1969 "In the older days," said Kim, "you added a few sheep and got your clothing and bedding out of it, with rabbit brush, indigo, and madder root for dyes." "Somebody ought to write all that down," said Rosemary. "I love old things." "I remember!" said Tommy, his eyes sparkling. "Grandmother washed the wool, picked the burrs out of it, carded it into bats and made quilts. She even made her own soap—with lye and old fat." "Her mother made her own lye, out of leached wood ashes. The early pioneers didn't have to buy a thing. They grew cane and made their own molasses, spun the fleece into yarn, and wove their own homespun, even grew cotton, and raised silk worms and made silk. I've seen samples in the museums." "How long is Grandfather going to stay?' repeated Rosemary stubbornly. "We don't know," said her father. "Your grandfather thinks he will be well enough to go home by spring, but you can 93 S@€e "What about my wedding?" pursued Rosemary. "And Tommy's thesis quarter?" "Let me worry about my own affairs, Sis," said Tommy. "I wasn't thinking of the changes it would make in our lives when I invited your grandfather—or the burden it would put on your mother," Kim said. "Neither was I," said Mary Ann. "If you had been there, Rosemary, if you had seen your grandfather, with all of us talking as if he wasn't there, the 530 tears coming down his face in spite of his efforts not to show his weakness—his physical weakness. He is proud and independent. I was proud of your father when he told him the place would never be sold—not in Grandfather's a and not in ours.' "And I was aed to hear from your mother her true feelings about her job. I had felt all along she was just saying she liked it to make us feel better about her working." "That's all very fine," said Rosemary somewhat bluntly. "But now what about my wedding? Obviously, both of you forgot about that." Rosemary was right. They had forgotten their children in the emotion-charged scene. The full brunt of their impulsive invitation had not hit them until later. Right now, as a matter of fact, Tommy had depended on his mother for his tuition and books, no small matter at this point in his education, and Rosemary had every reason to expect a lovely wedding, on the basis of their combined income. "Well, honey, we'll out," Kim said vaguely. Mary Ann realized now that she had shielded Kim in the matter of money, rushing forth with her funds whenever something above his ability to provide was needed. How could he realize the difference her salary had made in their plane of living? All the fringe items not officially listed with utilities, groceries, and house payments, the deluxe station wagon which had come into use bringmake ing his father home, the luxuries of finer clothes, a bigger fourbedroom home, including the swimming pool, extra gas and expense money for all of them. "We just have to play it by ear," he finished lamely. "I don't like ear music," said Rosemary succinctly. "Or hadn't you noticed? I like to play it as it's written—and it wasn't written this way. It is obvious that my wedding is not important to you." She went into her room and closed the door with a definite bang. Mary Ann rose to follow her. "Don't go, Mother," advised Tommy. "She has to think this thing through," but Mary Ann went anyway, entering RoseMary's room after a slight, unanswered knock. Rosemary was on her stomach on the bed. "Rosemary dear! If you'd been there! If you had seen how it was, with your aunts determined to sell the place and put the old dear into a rest home. He had been in a nursing home for a month after the hospital, and he couldn't bear it. 'Old people!' he said. 'Nothing but old people! And spaghetti one day, macaroni the next!' Your father and I couldn't bear to see your wonderful grandfather shunted off in his old age, to force him to sell his home—his whole life." "T''d really rather be alone," said Rosemary, without turning over. "I have some retirement coming, Rosemary. Not a great deal, but you can have that for your wedding." "What, exactly do you take me for?" demanded Rosemary, sitting up. "Your retirement is for your own old age! Now, really, Mother. I'd like to be alone." (To be continued ) 531 + et — =, (HA Relief Society Activities St. Louis Stake (Missouri) Presents "The Light of Sisterhood—127 Years" to Honor Visiting Teachers, March 14, 1969 Left to right: Bishop Dee Willden; Matilda Heldt; Patricia Keyes, President, St. Louis Stake Relief Society; Marilyn Hunt, President, Ft. Leonard Wood Branch Relief Society; Marg Garn, Stake Relief Society First Counselor; June Wall; Wilma Boyer, Second Counselor. Sister Keyes reports: ''We combined our visiting teacher convention with the birthday celebration, using the theme, 'The Light of Sisterhood—127 Years.' There were 190 present. Seventy-seven visiting teachers were presented with small ceramic boxes with a gold inscription '100% V. T. St. Louis Stake 1968.' Twelve other teachers were honored as outstanding visiting teachers and given special awards for 100 per cent attendance at meetings. Norma Hohl and June Wall were named outstanding visiting teachers of the year. Matilda Heldt was recognized for thirty-eight years as a visiting teacher. The Ft. Leonard Wood Branch was honored for outstanding achievements in visiting teaching. "Stake President Roy Oscarson and the bishoprics of wards assisted in presenting the awards. "The birthday cake was assembled and decorated by the stake board. It measured three feet by six feet. The program was successful and enjoyed by all who attended." SILA ETT OCs Pw ag SARE FEET PAM «CY SS Le SRP RN OY SC Midvale Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert to Honor Visiting Teachers, February 14, 1969 Officers of the Midvale Stake Relief Society Board, front row, left to right: Beverly Brown, chorister; Gloria Buck, organist; Eileen Terry, Secretary-Treasurer; Jean Owen, Second Counselor; Donna Davis, First Counselor; Jeane Reed, President; Janiel Apostle, spiritual living class leader; Delcia Weber, visiting teacher message leader; Zina Olson, Magazine representative; Elaine Nelson, homemaking leader; Caryle Young, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Reed reports: ''The theme for our visiting teacher convention was 'Love One Another,' which was particularly appropriate for Valentine's Day. "Highlighting the program was the beautiful singing by our Singing Mothers chorus composed of sisters from seven wards. Corsages were presented to nineteen sisters who have served as visiting teachers for forty years or more. Special awards were given to Sister Margaret Hall, who at eighty-six is our oldest visiting teacher; and to Sister Mary Jenkins, who has served for fifty-six years. Midvale Second Ward received a plaque honoring eighteen years of 100 per cent visiting teaching."' Sy AAR RaRRENOU OD NCRNRRE RYN ARR AO ANNE antinnk DIT A AMOANAERO NENA OM All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Ali submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. . — BE a ORE NR BET ETD FO Nhe COAG PAAR 8 AEE, Pf itil Aan CANE July 1969 Minidoka Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts in 1968 February 23 and December 6 Sisters in the dark dresses in the second row, at left: Mabel B. Blacker, President, Minidoka Stake Relief Society; center, Shirley E. Brady, chorister; at right, |sabell Sorensen, organist. Sister Blacker, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented two concerts during 1968. Both were well-attended. At the first concert, Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society, was present and graciously conducted several of the numbers. "The concert in December consisted of Christmas music which thrilled the heart. Each program had a narration." Grant Stake (Utah), Ninth Ward Achieves 100 Per Cent Visiting Teaching for Eighteenth Year, March 12, 1969 Beginning sixth from left on front row: Evelyn M. Edrington, Education Counselor, Grant Ninth Ward Relief Society; Erma Allen, President; Leona N. Widdowson, Homemaking Counselor; Dora Peck, Secretary-Treasurer. The sisters wearing corsages are visiting teacher supervisors. Visiting teacher message leader is Lucille Peck. Marjorie Y. Nelson, President, Grant Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'The Ninth Ward of our stake honored the visiting teachers of the ward at their annual birthday celebration. These sisters have achieved 100 per cent visiting teaching for the eighteenth year. "A narrative written by Ruth C. Owen, entitled 'Reflections From the Past,' was enjoyed by all. It depicted the divine origin, glorious purpose, and the inspired growth of the visiting teacher program. 'All visiting teachers were honored, but special recognition was given to the supervisors and to those who have served for more than forty years."' FO OP RE Re TE tL NR LED I MOL Tet IRE LATTA TRA EAT TT iT nT A RIE Cumorah Mission, Utica Branch (New York) Relief Society Presents Bazaar December 1968 Left to right: Marjorie Laffere, President, Utica Branch Relief Society; Dorothy Mercer, Homemaking Counselor; Barbara Moore, homemaking leader. Mary S. Bankhead, Supervisor, Cumorah Mission Relief Society, reports: ''A successful bazaar was held in the Utica Branch despite a heavy snowstorm. The display pictured is the popular Christmas booth. "Through the bazaar, the sisters had an opportunity to display their homemaking talents to the people of the area. The branch is very active and there is a close spirit of sisterhood in it." 534 2 FETE LLY PME TET ATES TS BRAY SD ALL PT APN IE A MISSION OF LOVE BRINGING TRUTH AND LIGHT TO SHOW THE WAY 10 CELESTIAL JOY LS er July 1969 Mount Ogden Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents '"'Female Relief Society of Nauvoo,'' March 6, 1969 Front row, left to right: Ethel Lewis, Homemaking Counselor, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; Edvenia J. Malan, President; Louise Knight, Education Counselor. Brethren left to right: James Jacobs as John Taylor; Dean Gardner as the Prophet Joseph Smith; Delmar Dickson as Willard Richards. Remaining sisters are officers of wards and stake. Sister Malan reports: ''For our birthday celebration we presented a very successful program regarding the organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo. 'The script for the program was written by Ethel Lewis, using as a reference, History of Relief Society. The portrayal of the characters and the costuming were excellent, and the program carried a definite theme and feeling of authenticity." Lorin Farr Stake (Utah) Presents Nursing Program for Both Brethren and Sisters Front row, center: Maxine Marshall, Counselor, Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society, in charge of nursing program; directly behind her: Marilyn Page, nurse in charge of the program. Second couple from left: Stake President and Sister Lawrence D. Olphin. Remaining brethren and sisters are husband and wife graduates of the program. Virga W. Swenson, President, Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Relief Society nursing program, under the direction of seven registered nurses, has now graduated ninety-seven people. "It was the feeling of the board that the brethren could benefit from this program, not only in assisting the wife, but also in case it was the wife who should be ill. "We attribute much of the success in this program to the cooperation of the priesthood authorities. Several of the high councilmen and their wives are among the husband and wife teams who have successfully completed the course."' Reseda Stake (California) Relief Society Presents ''Some Enchanted Evening," February 22, 1969 Members of the Reseda Stake Relief Society Board, left to right: Marjorie Rose, cultural refinement class leader; Nancy Waldvogel, Homemaking Counselor; Ida Ellis, President; Helen Nichols, Education Counselor; Nina Funk, Secretary-Treasurer; Ada Steenhoek, social relations class leader; Margaret Martell, Magazine representative; Elaine Lundberg, spiritual living class leader; Betty Whiting, organist; Janell Johns; homemaking leader; Barbara Udy, chorister. Sister Ellis reports: 'One of the most successful fund-raising events we have held in our stake was 'Some Enchanted Evening,' the theme for a prime rib dinner. 'Talented musicians from the stake played during the dinner hour and after dinner, entertainment was provided by professionals from the Los Angeles area. There were 336 guests present.' 536 SR RT TA OT Eg PTD BD ee TT nT a a July 1969 — Brigham City Stake (Utah), Brigham City Third Ward Honors Sisters Over Eighty Years Old March 19, 1969 Afton H. Olsen, President, Brigham City Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'The Third Ward of our stake celebrated the birthday of Relief Society in a most unique and thoughtful way. All sisters over eighty years of age were honored at the celebration. "The honored sisters were presented with a corsage and a profile portrait. The portraits were done by Carol A. Phillips. Mary P. Reeder, chairman for the celebration, was responsible for reading and writing the life sketches of the honored sisters. There are twenty-eight sisters in the ward over eighty years old, and eighteen of them were in attendance. "Marilyn B. Miller is president of the Brigham City Third Ward Relief Society. LL ST TT LTT TA ne meee re South Summit Stake (Utah, Peoa Ward Honors Sisters for Long, Compassionate Service to Relief Society, February 11, 1969 Left to right: Edith Barnum, eighty years of age; Eva N. Laughlin, eighty nine; Jane M. Walker, eighty six. "Afton H. Marchant, President, South Summit Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Peoa Ward honored the birthday anniversaries of three of the eldest sisters in the ward. They have each given many long years of compassionate service to Relief Society, and have served many years as visiting teachers. Sister Walker served as president of the ward for over twenty years. '"'A lovely luncheon was served, complete with birthday cake. Corsages were presented to the sisters and songs reminiscent of earlier days were sung by Margaret Thomas."' TAD SETS 2 DT TT ee ON tem STU Mesa Stake (Arizona), Mesa Thirteenth Ward Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts March 29, 1968, February 27, 1969 Ada J. Jones, President, Mesa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Thirteenth Ward of our stake has presented two concerts featuring the Singing Mothers. The theme of the first was 'Such Lovely Things.' The second told the story of our country in music, and was themed, 'Our Heritage.' "Narrating 'Our Heritage' was La Veryl B. Payne. Ida S. Church directed the group, Rae B. Dodge was pianist, and Gerda H. Flake was organist. 'Both of these concerts reflected careful planning and devoted rehearsing. The music was very lovely and enjoyed by all who attended." 538 av ae Ke zz a <a aes pte etree ead a = Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 97—Eternal Marriage Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 131:1-4; 132.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman should understand the truth that a marriage to endure after this life must be performed in a house of the Lord, and seek to attain. An eternal marriage. INTRODUCTION In conversation with Elder William Clayton, the Prophet Joseph Smith told him what ls now recorded in verses 1 through 4 of Section 131 of the Doctrine and Covenants pertaining to marriage. Section 132 is the revelation on celestial marriage, which includes plural marriage as well as eternal marriage. It is believed that the revelation on plural marriage was received as early as 1831, but Section 132 was committed to writing on July 12, 1843. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 5, p. Xxxi [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) Inasmuch as the Lord by revelation has withdrawn the prac- 540 tice of plural marriage, it is only necessary to mention the principle in this lesson. (The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff, pp. 213-18.) It is well to remember that this practice is proper only when the Lord commands it. (D&C 49:15- 17; Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 323-24; Jac. 2:27-30.) The penalty for practicing plural marriage by a member of the Church today is excommunication, the same as for others who commit adultery. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 280.) Exaltation in the celestial kingdom requires eternal marriage but does not require plural marriage. In the revelation regarding eternal marriage, the expression "if a man marry a wife," or a similar expression, is used. (D&C 132:15, 18, 19, 26, 41.) IN THE BEGINNING In the beginning God ordained that marriage should be a part of earth experience for his sons and daughters. The following reveals that truth and also that this principle was intended as a part of the plan of salvation: And again, verily I say unto you, that whoso forbiddeth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage is ordained of God unto man. Wherefore, it is lawful that he should have one wife, and they twain shall be one flesh, and all this that the earth might answer the end of its creation: And that it might be filled with the measure of man, according to his creation before the world was made. (D&C 49:15-17.) In discussing the marriage of Adam and Eve, Elder Harold B. Lee, of the Council of the Twelve, referred to its perpetuity, as follows: Here [Genesis 2:18, 22-24] was a marriage performed by the Lord between two immortal beings, for until sin entered the world their bodies were not subject to death. He made them one, not merely for time, nor for any definite period; they were to be one throughout the eternal ages. If you were to say that because Adam and Eve transgressed and became subject to death that this eternal union was broken, then just remember that the purpose of the atonement by Jesus Christ was to restore that which was lost by the fall. Their restoration then to each other after the resurrection would not require a re-marriage, for death to them was not a divorce; it was only a temporary separation. Resurrection to immortality meant for them a_ reunion and an eternal bond never again to be severed. "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." (I Corinthians 15:22.) (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, p. 128.) Lesson Department PURPOSE OF MARRIAGE There are some churches which maintain that celibacy is sanctioned by God. One of these churches in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith was the Shaking Quakers. It was to a group of Latter-day Saint missionaries that the Lord revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that marriage was ordained of him and that those who taught otherwise did not represent him. (D&C 49:15.) Marriage makes it possible for the earth to answer the end of its creation. Because man, as a_premortal being, was designed to come to earth to work out his salvation, marriage was ordained to bring about this purpose. Consequently, the fundamental purpose of marriage is to beget children that the Lord's purposes may be fulfilled. (D&C 49:16-17.) MARRIAGE OUTSIDE OF THE CHURCH Should a Latter-day Saint young man or woman marry someone who is not a member of the Church? Leaders of the Church have counseled members to marry within the Church. (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 196-97; Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 279; David O. McKay, Gospel Ideals, p. 465.) Where the parties to a marriage are both strong in different faiths, the chances for happiness are greatly diminished. (John A. Widtsoe, Evidences and Reconciliations, pp. 237-38.) Sometimes young people feel that when they marry a nonmember, he or she will be able to convert him or her to the Church. 541 July 1969 The chances for conversion and the consequent happiness in marriage are far greater if the conversion is made before marriage. (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, p. 132.) The Lord has said that parents should teach their children correct principles to shape their lives for happiness. (D&C 68:25- 28.) The mother has a wonderful opportunity in the home to impress upon her children the importance of marrying within the Church. Class Discussion How and when should a mother prepare her children for temple marriage? PURPOSE OF LIFE To work out one's salvation in this life and in the life to come is the paramount purpose of the earth life. This means that the purpose of God in creating man is to grant to him, through obedience, the greatest measure of salvation—eternal life. (Moses 1:39.) As man is the child of God, so also man may, by obedience to law, become as the Father. (D&C 132:20-22.) The blessing of eternal life comes to those who fulfill all the laws and commandments. OBEDIENCE TO THE GOSPEL The gospel of Jesus Christ provides the way whereby the sons: and daughters of God may return © to his presence in the celestial kingdom. Baptism is the gate to that kingdom. (D&C 76:50-53.) There are degrees in the celestial kingdom, therefore, members of his Church should seek for the highest degree. 542 In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees; And in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order or priesthood [meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage]; And if he does not, he cannot obtain it. He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot have an increase. (D&C 131:1-4.) The new and everlasting covenant is the gospel of Jesus Christ. There are many covenants within the gospel and marriage for eternity is one of them. To be fully obedient to the gospel involves full discipleship. ETERNAL MARRIAGE After a couple have received the higher ordinances of the priesthood endowment in the temple, they are qualified to receive eternal marriage. Only by the keys of the priesthood held by the President of the Church, who delegates these powers to others, may this union be solemnized. (D&C 132:7.) The blessings available to those who marry for eternity are these: they shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever. (D&C 132:19.) ETERNAL INCREASE In Section 131 and in Section 132, verse 19, the Lord has told us that if faithful to the eternal marriage vows, the blessing of "increase," and 'a continuation of the seeds forever and ever" will be received. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the following information on this subject: Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. (DHC, Vol. 5, p. 391.) The children born to an exalted man and woman after the resurrection are spirit beings. The parents are tangible, resurrected persons referred to in the scriptures as having spiritual bodies; that is, with spirit element in their veins rather than blood as in mortal bodies. (D&C 88:27; Al. 11:45; Brigham Young, Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 374.) THE DEATHS When resurrected beings are exalted they receive "eternal lives," the power of eternal increase, which is the opposite of the "deaths," or the lack of such power. (D&C 132:24-25.) Only exalted beings will be married in the future life because they proved themselves while on the earth in being faithful to all things required of them. (D&C 132:12.) In the following verses the conditions in the world to come are explained, having reference to those who receive marriage for eternity and to others who did not subscribe to the full law: Therefore, if a man marry him a wife in the world, and he marry her not by me nor by my word, and he covenant with her so long as he is in the world and she with him, their covenant and marriage are not of force when they are dead, and when they are out of the world; therefore, they are not bound Lesson Department by any law when they are out of the world. Therefore, when they are out of the world they neither marry nor are given in marriage; but are appointed angels in heaven, which angels are ministering servants, to minister for those who are worthy of a far more, and an exceeding, and an eternal weight of glory. For these angels did not abide my law; therefore, they cannot be enlarged, but remain. Separately and _ singly, without exaltation, in their saved condition, to all eternity; and from _ henceforth are not gods, but are angels of God forever and ever. (D&C 132:15-17.) If there are some who may believe that their marriage is in effect beyond the grave, although not solemnized by God's priesthood in the temple, the following verse corrects this belief: And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife, and make a covenant with her for time and for all eternity, if that covenant is not by me or by my word, which is my law, and is not sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, through him whom I have anointed and appointed unto this power, then it is not valid neither of force when they are out of the world, because they are not joined by me, saith the Lord, neither by my word; when they are out of the world it cannot be received there, because the angels and the gods are appointed there, by whom they cannot pass; they cannot, therefore, inherit my glory; for my house is a house of order, saith the Lord God. (D&C 132:18.) Class Discussion How does our desire to project our family relationship into eternity motivate our desire to attain the celestial kingdom? MARRIAGE IN THE RESURRECTION In reference to a question concerning marriage of a woman to several husbands, the Savior said that "in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in 543 July 1969 marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven." (Matt. 22:30.) What did the Lord mean when he said that there was no marrying in the resurrection? He was speaking of the Sadducees who had rejected the gospel and its teachings about eternal marriage. As far as they were concerned, there was no Marrying or giving in marriage in heaven. But if the persons are worthy to be married for eternity, and the opportunity does not come while on the earth, the opportunity for this blessing will come in the world ahead. The necessary ordinances may, for instance, be performed on the earth in a temple by proxy. What of Latter-day Saint daughters who have died without being sealed to a man in the temple? Elder Melvin J. Ballard gave this counsel: Now, then, what of your daughters who have died and have not been sealed to some man? Unless it is made known to you, let their case rest. They will make known to you the agreements and contracts they have mutually entered into. The sealing power shall be forever and ever with this Church, and provisions will be made for them. We cannot run faster than the Lord has provided the way. Their blessings and privileges will come to them in due time. In the meantime, they are safe. (Bryant S. Hinckley, Sermons and Missionary Services of Melvin J. Ballard, p. 260.) Elder Ballard also gives an answer to the same question concerning little children who, of course, did not receive the sealing ordinance of marriage: I lost a son six years of age, and I saw him a man in the spirit world after his death, and I saw how he had exercised his own freedom of choice and would obtain of his own will and volition a companionship, and in due time to him, and all those who are worthy of it, shall 544 come all of the blessings and sealing privileges of the house of the Lord. Do not worry over it. They are safe; they are all right. (Ibid.) What about young men and women who die without the opportunity for marriage in the temple? Elder Harold B. Lee has said: You young women advancing in years who have not yet accepted a proposal of marriage, if you make yourselves worthy and ready to go to the house of the Lord and have faith in this sacred principle, even though the privilege of marriage does not come to you now, the Lord will reward you in due time and no blessing will be denied you. You are not under obligation to accept a proposal from someone unworthy of you for fear you will fail of your blessings. Likewise you young men who may lose your lives in a terrible conflict before you have had an opportunity for marriage, the Lord knows the intents of your hearts and in his own time will reward you with opportunities made possible through temple ordinances instituted in the Church for that purpose. (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, p. 132.) ' Many women join the Church although their husbands may not. What of them? Salvation is an individual matter. If one party to the marriage remains true to the covenant of baptism and the opportunity for eternal marriage is not possible, then the righteous desires of that person's heart will eventually be realized. Class Discussion In view of the foregoing discussion, why do you think the gospel of Jesus Christ is just? BLESSINGS OF TEMPLE MARRIAGE Experience has shown that those who marry in the temple generally find success in their marriage. Elder John A. Widtsoe gave the following nine reasons for a temple marriage: 1. It is the Lord's desire and will. 2. It is in harmony with the sacred nature of the marriage covenant. 3. It tends to insure marital happiness. 4. It permits the association of husband - and wife for time and for all eternity. 5. It provides the eternal possession of children and family relationship. 6. It acts as-a restraint against evil. 7. It furnishes the opportunity for endless [eternal] progression. 8. It. Places the: family under the: protection of the power of the priesthood. 9. It provides a God-like destiny for human beings. (John A. Widtsoe, Evidences and Reconciliations, pp. 231-36.) HAPPY HOMES The performance of the marrlage ceremony in the temple is not sufficient in itself to make a happy home. President David O. McKay has given six elements which lie at the basis of true home building: 1. Let us. Substitute the present tendency toward a low view of marriage with the lofty view which God gives a os. 2. Teach the young of both sexes in the responsibilities and ideals of marriage so that they may realize that * marriage involves obligation and is not an arrangement to be terminated at pleasure. 3. Instruct young girls in the fundamental arts of housekeeping, so that when responsibilities of wifehood come, they may be free from the difficulties and _ perplexities which arise from ignorance and inexperience. 4. Marriages should be solemnized, as far as possible, in the house of God. DD. Keep religion in home life.... 6. Teach the young that the foundations of a happy home are laid before even the bride and bridegroom kneel at the marriage altar. (David O. McKay, Gospel Ideals, pp. 478-79.) Lesson Department IMPLEMENTATION In the premortal world the plan of salvation was formed whereby the spirit sons and daughters of God could receive an earth life necessary for eternal progression. The relationship between God and his children was a parent-child relationship because his spint children were born of a Heavenly Father and Heavenly Mother. (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, pp. _ 126-27.) The eternal round of spint children being born to exalted beings and the opportunity to reach the heights of exaltation by an earth life require marriage for eternity by mortals. Faithfulness to eternal marriage covenants is a means of proving oneself as a part of the eternal plan. Marriage. Was instituted by God for the purpose of bringing to earth life his spirit children for this probationary state. Exaltation is possible only to male and female together. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 276.) Marriage is so essential to salvation in the highest sense that provision is made in the gospel that those who do not have the opportunity in life for eternal marriage may have the blessing of temple ordinances by proxy. Latter-day Saint parents have the responsibility of teaching their children the principles of the gospel in order that they may be prepared for marriage in the temple. They know that success in marriage is enhanced greatly by eternal marriage and that only when sealed by the priesthood of God can contracts remain unbroken when men are dead. (D&C 132:13-14.) 545 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 1—In the Service of Your Fellow Men Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To realize that when we serve our fellow beings, we are in the service of our God. A few years ago a group was discussing the meaning of service. One said, "I'm a _ business man. Everything I manufacture and sell is to help others have a better life." A teacher said, "My whole day is devoted to helping others develop." A mother said, "I gave birth and thus life to a number of people and I serve them." A lawyer said, "A public servant is well named. An elected official serves others." Centuries before this, King Benjamin called all his people together to teach them the will of God. In his memorable address he said: And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God. (Mosiah 2:17.) What was he saying about service in this verse and the following verses of his speech? Did he mean what the businessman, the teacher, the lawyer, even the mother did, or was he speaking of something beyond the general goodness that people 546 may extend to. One another and for which they often receive remuneration and other earthly rewards? Jesus said: Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many will say to me in that day: Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? (italics added.) And then will I profess unto them: I never knew you....(3 Ne. 14:21-23.) And again Jesus said, "For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same?" (Matt. 5:46.) In these teachings is God -not calling us to a more profound meaning of loving service? Is it enough just to take care of others we love? Do not sinners do the same? In his early instructions to the Relief Society, Joseph Smith said that one of the purposes of the society was in "... Searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants. (History of Relief Soctety, 1842-1966, p. 18.) Moreover, Jesus taught it was to be done so "That thine alms may be in secret. " (Matt. 6:4.) Again Joseph Smith - said, ".. Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 5, p. 25 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) Our service to our fellow men, then, has special meanings. It is to be a part of serving God with our "whole souls" (Mosiah 2:21), to follow Jesus into total Lesson Department righteousness, and do the" will of my [our] Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 7:21.) We should love and serve our enemies. We should search out those in need. We are not only to attend to their physical needs but to help them find the kingdom of God, to keep his commandments " that they might rejoice and be filled with love towards God and all men." (Mosiah 2:4.) We are to help them lift their lives to greater goodness, to help them achieve salvation. As we serve our fellow men, then, with these added dimensions, we are in the service of our God helping to bring about his multiple, great purposes. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 1—''She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household." (Prov. 31:27) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show the need for family preparedness and the role of the Latter-day Saint woman in achieving it. INTRODUCTION Have any of us ever known a period of time when our leaders have not counseled, advised, and even urged us to prepare our homes and families that we might be self-sustaining in a time of need? The answer would certainly have to be in the negative. Why, then, are many of us so reluctant or so indifferent, or even so negligent that we fail to heed this counsel? Is it because we have lulled ourselves into a state of false security by using excuses—excuses which 547 July 1969 we can usually find if we are looking for them? WHAT ARE OUR EXCUSES? 1. That we are not converted. Can we justify ourselves when we accept some of the teachings of our leaders and reject others? 2. That we hear the counsel but we are not ready to heed it. Can we attain salvation without working for it? 3. That there is no immediate need. Illness, accident, strikes, destructive weather (earthquakes, tornadoes, etc.), and other disasters could occur at any time. 4. That we are protected by the Church storehouses. These supplies are only designed to meet needs that go beyond what the family is able to do for itself. 5. That we have inadequate storage space. If there is a will, there is a way to overcome this problem. 6. That spoilage of stored food results in a waste of money and effort. Do we criticize the program rather than the method when unwise planning and improper storing are responsible for our losses? 7. That we cannot afford the extra expense. Careful planning and _ wise manipulation of income will overcome this difficulty. WHY SHOULD WE BE PREPARED? If there were no other reason than that our Church leaders have so counseled us, it would be the best reason in the world for obeying. In a talk given at a Brigham Young University Leadership Week, Elder Harold B. Lee made the following statement: The only safety and security there is in this Church is in listening to the words that come from the prophets of the Lord, as if from the mouth of the Lord himself. And they have spoken; they have told us to prepare, and it is not for us to argue whether we should or whether 548 we should not. We have the prophets today telling us what our responsibility is here and now.... God help us not to turn deaf ears, but go out while the harvest is yet possible and build on a foundation such that when the rains descend, and the floods come, and the winds blow and beat on the house, our house will have stone walls. (BYU Leadership Week, June 16, 1953.) President Tanner told of a conversation he had with a member of the Church regarding the importance of family preparedness. This person said "Well, you know, if I knew that this was going to happen next year, if that is when the emergency is going to take place, I would get mine in" —meaning the year's supply. President Tanner replied, "If IT were you I would wait for the emergency.... You remind me of the man who was complaining that he had been paying fire insurance for the last twenty years and he had never got anything out of it." (Welfare Conference, October 1, 1966.) We pay fire insurance, certainly not hoping that some day our houses will burn down. We pay insurance on our lives hoping that we will long. Outlive the maturing of the _ policies. We take other precautions which we hope will insure us a happy and profitable life here on earth, and then we endanger it all by not heeding the warnings and counsel of our leaders regarding this most important phase of our living—preparedness. President J. Reuben Clark gave us some wise and sound advice when he said: First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping his commandments.... [Second,] Let us avoid debt as we would a plague.... Let us straightly and strictly hve within our incomes, and save a little. Let every head of every household see to it that he has on hand enough food and clothing, and, where possible, fuel also, for at least a year ahead. (Conference Report, April 1937, p. 26.) WHAT IS THE LATTER-DAY SAINT WOMAN'S ROLE? In some instances women manage most of the family expenditures. Home management has become a business in itself. This intensifies our responsibility as Latter-day Saint wives and mothers in this important preparedness program. We _ need, first of all, to be entirely converted to it, and then we should —if we have not already done Lesson Department so—proceed in a systematic and orderly way tomake the necessary preparation, as our incomes will permit, without borrowing or going into debt. CONCLUSION An increased sense of security and a deep feeling of peace fill our hearts when we know that we are obeying the counsel of the prophets of the Lord and when we know that by doing so we can take care of those we love in any emergency. Few of us have known an extremity of want or suffering, but those who have experienced even minor emergencies recognize the wisdom of being prepared. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 1—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 1 Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study. 1969-70, Lessons 6-7.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out a mother's opportunity to teach the need and benefits of complying with the restraints of the immutable laws of the universe. INTRODUCTION If I were asked to name what I considered to be the most outstanding trend of modern life, particularly among the young people, I think I would say it is the rebellion against the restraints and conventions of our present hfe, whether those restraints and conventions affect our physical, intellectual, or spintual activities and being. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 6.) 549 July 1969 These words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., spoken as early as 1933, reveal a situation which has become increasingly evident through succeeding years and is a vivid reality today. They lead us into the general discussion theme of this lesson, which will quote liberally from lessons 6 and 7 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study. This companion lesson will discuss restraints as they relate to the individual, emphasizing the need for restraints in society and in one's personal relationships. UNREST AND OPPOSITION The attitude of unrest and opposition to established institutions, referred to by President Clark and so apparent throughout the world today, is giving parents, educators, and civic leaders much concern. They are considering probable causes and searching for remedies. Existing conditions convince us_ that no easy answer is available and that no generalization is adequate for the complex condition involving so many aspects. President Clark states: Some may say this rebellion shows merely a wish for greater liberty; others may consider it a destructive demand for complete license. As frequently happens, neither extreme view seems wholly right. The truth probably lies somewhere between. (Ibid.) A list of probable factors related to this attitude of revolt follows. President Clark has suggested the first three, others have been added, and still others may be suggested. Our concern in 550 this discussion -is to discover some areas where the home may be abdicating important responsibilities. Question for Discussion In your opinion, which of the following probable factors seem most likely to be responsible for this _personal revolt? Discuss as time permits. 1. A general desire for more liberty. 2. A destructive demand for complete license—freedom from restraint. 3. A personal weakness which may cause an individual to want others to become as he is or to share his point of view. 4. A lack of constructive objectives that give purpose to life. A desire to be different. A wish to escape responsibility. A basic lack of understanding of the value of law and order and of the need for personal restraint even in situations where changes and dissent may be justified. 8. A sincere mistrust by many idealistic young people of what they consider to be the hypocrisy and artificiality of accepted standards. Revolt for this reason, if recognized for the idealism it is and properly channeled, can be transformed into a force for good. Ad Points to Consider In the search for cause and cure, may we not justly turn the searchlight upon the homes from which these individuals —these restless resisters of law—have come? We may ask such pertinent questions as these: 1. Is it possible that restrictive demands within the home have been excessive, or has there been a complete lack of restraint? 2. Is it possible that an understanding acceptance within the home has been lacking so self-esteem has not been developed? 3. Have parents set the example of restraint by having definite life objectives? Have they motivated the children to do likewise? A. Have the children been given freedoms in those areas where individuality is commendable? b. Have they been guided so as to be able to distinguish between that which is merely "different" and that which is fundamental]? 4. Have the parents done too much for the children, thus depriving them of the strength and growth that responsibility develops? 5. Has the home neglected to teach the need for law and the fact that obedience to law and order brings freedom? 6. Have faith in God and general religious training been absent in the home? RESTRAINTS—WHY? Certain familiar virtues, when developed and exercised, make us good citizens and dependable, upright individuals. These virtues are basic to constructive private life and have been found to be essential to an orderly society as a whole. We may enumerate some of them in such affirmative terms as_ honesty, respect for life and property of others, or in the negatively expressed commandments of the Decalogue, such as, thou shalt not kill, nor steal, nor commit adultery. President Clark states: These virtues are named _ because, looking at mankind as a whole and at the Christian nations particularly, these characteristics seem to be basic to their civilization. They seem to be equally basic to any form of orderly society of which we can conceive. For if every person murdered and robbed and _ lied and loafed and caroused, if there were an indiscriminate association of the sexes, no ordered society could exist; and without such society we have scant ground for hoping and no ground for believing, that humanity could escape becoming merely animal. ([bid.) Discussion Statements If the foregoing statements are sound, organized society must esLesson Department tablish some restraints and some conventions to assist in the enforcement of the _ restraints. President Clark states: Certainly some _ conventions and restraints must be retained; it is equally certain that others might be changed or abolished. The restraint which forbids murder may not be safely abandoned; the convention which prescribes the difference between dinner jacket and full evening dress might be forgotten. (Ibid.) RESTRAINTS—WHEN AND HOW MUCH? How much restraint and what type of conventions needed for an orderly social unit to persist may depend upon (1) the persons or group of people affected, (2) the state of their civilization and righteousness. President Clark declares: The greater the civilization and righteousness which a person or a_ people shall possess, the less will be the need of restraint and convention. (Ibid.) Implementation 1. Relate the foregoing statement of President Clark with the following occasion and statement: When the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked how he governed the thousands of converts into the Church, he replied, *"*... I teach the people correct principles and they govern themselves. (Cited by John Taylor, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, pp. 57-58 [hereinafter referred to as JD}.) 2. Relate this principle to parental training within the home, answering this question: Can children, generally, be expected to perform better than their teaching or their knowledge? INHERENT IN ALL CREATION Speaking of universal laws, President Clark states:. The great laws governing the universe—physical, intellectual, and 551 July 1969 spiritual—are coexistent with that universe as known to us: they are self-executory, that is, they enforce themselves, no one needs to enforce them; they operate independently of man's. Will, consent, or desire; they operate impartially and universally; every creature, human or animal, every other created thing, is subject to the applicable law. It follows that whether we wish or whether we do not wish restraint, yet restraint is inherent in all creation.. Efforts to ignore restraint, or to evade it, or to destroy it, will meet with failure. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 7.) The physical world is fully controlled by law; if it were not, it could not and would not exist. Heat, light, electricity, what we call matter—air, water, earth— all are subject to and controlled by law. Our bodies being matter are equally subject to great physical laws from none of which is there any escape. (Jbid., lesson 6.) Question How can a mother make use of her knowledge of these immutable laws in the training of small children? President Clark suggests some practical. Illustration for the operation of these physical laws. He continues: If we walk off a cliff, we fall. It is immaterial whether we know the cliff is there, or whether we know we will fall if we walk off, or whether we desire to fall, or whether we step off the cliff by one foot or jump off by five feet; the result is the same and _ inevitable. If we touch a hot stove, we are burned; ignorance of its heat, or an accidental touching, or our own preferences, or our lack of knowledge that hot stoves burn—all are immaterial. If we lay hold of a copper wire, heavily charged with electricity, we are killed; again neither ignorance nor accident nor preference will avail us. Acid burns our flesh, water drowns us, poison gas kills us. These results all come from the operation of laws which are immutable; they execute themselves; they do not depend either upon our knowledge of their existence, or upon our consent to their operation, or upon our desire that they 552 manifest themselves; the penalty inevitably follows the violation. (Ibid.) Discussion Questions How may the relationship between the mother and child be affected if the mother (a) merely gives a_ negative command, (b) explains that a. Certain action will bring a certain result? Give examples. How would you answer the older child who asks: "But is there no exception? Does one always have to experience the penalty for violating the law?" One mother's reply: There is no exception unless some other law intervenes to. Soften or eliminate the penalty. For example, if a person wears asbestos gloves, he may be spared the burning effect of the hot stove. If a person steps off the cliff in a parachute, he may land safely upon the ground. The child, thus, gradually learns through experience and the verbal guidance of parent or other persons to walk freely and safely through many of the hazards of the physical world. He must, however, also learn—that this is a gradual process—that the effects of many physical laws must not be learned through personal experience, if he is to survive physically. He must not shoot himself to learn that a bullet shot from a gun can kill. From his close associates, especially the mother, the small child learns of many laws vicariously. He later may seek other authoritative sources. Question How can the mother establish a relationship that will build confidence in her judgment and admonition? Discuss briefly. THE IMMEDIATE VERSUS THE DELAYED PENALTY The penalty for violation of the immutable laws may be immediate, as in the foregoing examples, or they may be delayed for months or even many years. It is not difficult for adults to know and to understand why this is so. It is, however, not always easy for them to keep the effects sufficiently in mind that they are willing to heed the warning effects of the law. It is far easier to comply with the restraints of the law when the penalty is in immediate sight. Would many persons yield to the habit of smoking if the possible cancer result were always an immediate penalty? For children, it is even more difficult to maintain interest in a far-away penalty. Discussion Statement The more mature a person becomes, the more willing he is to comply with the restraints of physical laws where the results are not immediate. There are innumerable laws in the physical world about which we know very little at present. It is to discover these laws and their effects that research science is making such great effort today, in extensive areas of life. Much hasbeen discovered already. We have centered our discussion, thus far, upon the immutable laws which affect our physical beings. "... It is inconceivable," LIFE'S AFTERNOON Lesson Department states President Clark, "that affairs of the mind and spirit of men, embracing the moral and spiritual world, are not also controlled by law." (Ibid.) (This aspect of the laws which affect our lives will be treated more fully in the succeeding lesson.) We also have focused our discussion, thus far, upon the effects of violating specific natural laws. We must not overlook the truth that obedience to the law brings affirmative rewards. President Clark phrases this idea beautifully in the following paragraph: On the other hand the law operates just as certainly in its blessings as in its penalties. If we avoid the cliff, we do not fall; if we do not touch the stove, we are not burned; if we leave the charged electric wire alone, we are not injured. So in intellectual and spiritual matters: if we do not offend, we suffer no injury. But in intellectual and spiritual matters, obedience to law brings' not only the blessings of mere absence - of penalty, but it brings also, in every case, increased power and strength, it brings growth and development, it brings us nearer to the ultimate goal pronounced by the Master: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." [Matt. 5:48.] And this truth is the wonder and the glory of our intellectual and spiritual lives. (Ibid, lesson 7.) For Home Doing Make opportunities to remind yourself and to teach your children that obeying the restraining laws of the universe is to walk the road of freedom—free from the penalties that violation brings, free to enjoy the rich blessings of obedience. No afternoon of life is colorless; All the brilliance of the setting sun Reflects the golden memories of youth, And gilds the pathway toward the evening. —Grace B. Wilson 553 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section One By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas 'My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us free.'' _The Book of Mormon (Al. 61:9.) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To make clear that the free agency of man—his right to choose—is at the base of all meaningful liberty. MUSIC. Bianik" from Ma Viast (My Fatherland) by Bedrich Smetana (1824-1884) Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. Through the ages as men have striven to be "... Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon." (2 Ne. 3:26) they have yearned for personal and political freedoms. In the great nationalistic movements of the 19th century, artists, writers, and musicians did not really reflect the conditions of their time as much as they wrote on what they wished conditions were to be. Bedrich Smetana, in his later life, composed a series of six tone poems that beautifully expressed his love and hopes for his country. "The Moldau" is the best known of the six. It is a musical description of the mighty river by that name which flows through the land. "Blanik" is the final poem of the series, it paints the hill located in the mid-southern region of Bohemia around which an old legend is built—a legend that tells of sleeping knights that will awaken to serve the country in time of need. Smetana has used as a theme for this work the old Hussite hymn, Ye Are the Warriors of God. He wrote, "On the basis of this melody will develop the resurrection of the Czech people, its future happiness and glory." 554 INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON At its most basic level, man's freedom to choose, his "agency" is fundamental to all that he does. We are told in 2 Ne. 2:26 that the redemption of Christ makes men "... Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon." The selections which we are considering this month help us appreciate the range of choices we can exercise in establishing meaningful concepts of liberty. "THE HIND AND THE PANTHER" John Dryden's lines from his long poem entitled "The Hind and the Panther" emphasize the danger of trying to coerce others into a belief which matches our own: The Hind and the Panther Of all the tyrannies of human kind The worst is that which persecutes the mind. Let us but weigh at what offence we strike, "Tis but because we cannot think alike. In punishing of this we overthrow The laws of nations and of nature too. Beasts are the subjects of tyrannic sway, When still the stronger on the weaker prey; Man only of a softer mould is made, Not for his fellows' ruin but their aid; Created kind, beneficent and free, The noble image of the Deity. The final line of this excerpt— with its echo of Genesis 1:27— is intended to make explicit what has already been hinted at throughout the poem: only that man who remembers in whose image he is made can be expected to understand that Lesson Department coerced freedom of conscience is neither necessary nor beneficial. John Dryden (1631-1700) was one of the most versatile of English poets. He seemed to be at home in dramatic, satiric, narrative, and didactic poetry. He was also one of the greatest of English translators and one of the most accomplished writers of English prose. In 1686 Dryden was converted to Roman Catholicism and "The Hind and the Panther," his most famous religious poem, is a defense of his new faith. The Hind apparently represents the Roman Catholic Church, while the Panther stands for the Church of England. Discussion Question If most of us know that man "convinced against his will is of the same opinion still," why do we still try to force conformity? "THE INDISPENSABLE OPPOSITION" Walter Lippmann (1889) was a member of the famous Class of 1910 at Harvard University. Since his graduation, he has had a distinguished career as a journalist, editor, and author. For members of the Church, Mr. Lippmann's insistence on the necessity of opposition strikes an immediately responsive chord. In the second chapter of 2 Nephi we find the following lines: For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. (2 Ne. 2:11.) In reading Lippman's "The Indispensable Opposition" we 555 July 1969 must distinguish at once between that opposition which stems from mere contentiousness and that opposition which is creative. The Book of Mormon warns us against contention in the eleventh chapter of 3 Nephi, verse 29: For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another. One of the cues as to what is essentially wrong with contention is given in the phrase "with anger." Too often our opposition is expressed in emotional, exaggerated charges and counter-charges. In such a statewe are not receptive to the whisperings of the Spirit. The Holy Ghost is not able to penetrate the wall of strong feeling which we have erected. We haven't ears to hear the truth. A dispute is not even a detour toward truth; it becomes an end in itself, a dead end. We quickly become less concerned with finding answers than we are in winning arguments. How rarely anyone is listening in an argument. We wait impatiently while our opponent speaks so we can stun him with our side as soon as he finishes. The opposition Mr. Lippmann - finds "indispensable" has little to do with mere disputation. Rather, it is the presentation and consideration of alternatives that test and refine our own beliefs. Truth has nothing to fear from error and _ since the very word "definition" suggests pointing out that something is not as well as what it is, we can focus and sharpen 556 our perceptions by contrast as well as comparison. It must be remembered, however, that Mr. Lippmann is talking primarily about secular truth. That to which the Spirit has testified to us is not illuminated by error. Discussion Question How can we usually tell when a fruitful discussion is turning into a fruitless disputation? "WHAT IS LIBERTY?" Woodrow' Wilson, twentyseventh President of the United States, in his essay "What is Liberty" presents an attractive picture of a harmonious society in which each part is adjusted to and balanced against every other one. It is important to remember, in reacting positively to such a concept, that such an adjustment might be temporarily attained where the basis for the social group is almost wholly evil, that' is, men are mere cogs in a machine. "ANIMAL FARM" George Orwell's "Animal Farm" is a convincing and devastating satire on a communist attempt to make "all animals equal." There are few endings in English fiction as effective as the concluding paragraph of this novel. What is most heartrending is that, to the exploited animals who are gazing in astonishment at the violent argument going on between the pigs and men, whatever the outcome of the arguments, they are the TO RELIEF SOCIETY AND Sj Tel. 277-7331 OTHER CHORISTERS: Certainly, you are well advised to strive to raise the cultural tevel of your group by using the songs of Schubert, Brahms, or others of the Masters whenever you can. But if You fail to find the precise message you want to convey— welcoming home a_ returning missionary, honoring the Visiting Teachers, celebrating a temple marriage, or exhorting to genealogical and temple work, praising the Relief Society Organization, or dozens of other UNIQUELY L. D. S. Messages, — we suggest you consult our catalog of SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS, written by Mormons to fill such special needs. Why not order enough catalogs for all the wards in your stake? They're FREE. Write to 1365 East 4800 South St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 Ypeceal Occaston Songs Vilate R. McAllister, Prop. New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's 'first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and2 _..55 -Zone5 _~__-_~- - oe60 Zone6 __.- - — e65 Zone7 _~__-_~- Zone8__ _ _1.05 __ 7 PESERET FREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Lesson Department real losers. Tyranny, finally, always wears the same _ face and has the same victims. Discussion Question What is the basic difference between the harmony and adjustment we seek in an organization such as the Relief Society and that sought after in the grouping described in "Animal Farm''? OTHER POEMS Poems by Henry David Thoreau and James Oppenheim stress the importance of peace of mind and personal integrity in the meaning we can individually give to liberty. Of course we must understand that the Latter-day Saint definition of liberty is in accord with the Lord's definition of liberty. Thoreau's "Independence" is as follows: My life more civil is and free Than any civil polity. Ye Princes, keep your realms and circumscribed power, Not wide as are my dreams, Nor rich as is this hour. What can ye give which I have not? What can ye take which I have got? Can ye defend the dangerless? Can ye inherit nakedness? To all true wants Time's ear is deaf, Penurious States lend no relief Out of their pelf: But a_ free soul—thank God— Can help itself. Be sure your fate Doth keep apart its state,— Not linked with any band, Even the noblest in the land,— In tended fields with cloth of gold No place doth hold. But is more chivalrous than they are, and sigheth for a nobler war; A finer strain its trumpet rings, A brighter gleam its armour flings. The life that I aspire to live, No man proposeth me; 557 July 1969 No trade upon the street Wears its emblazonry. Along with his friend and mentor Ralph Waldo Emerson, Thoreau believed strongly in a self-reliance which was, _ ultimately, a reliance upon God. The fervor of Thoreau in this poem seems out of place if we do not remember this. It is a little unfair to think of Thoreau as the great rebel in American literature and it is even more unfair to believe that the group of which Thoreau and Emerson were a part — the Transcendentalists — were characterized by personal eccentricity and harsh independence. What all the Transcendentalists insisted upon was the necessity for each person to find out for himself what he believed in. They were sure that men of faith and good will would finally come to essential agreement, since God is the author of all truth but they felt strongly that each person must come to that unity in his own way. In this poem Thoreau tries to reject all the crutches which men have tried to use to avoid facing the truth and establishing a personal liberty based on that truth. James Oppenheim's "The Slave" is equally committed to the necessity for each man to free himself before he can conceive the meaning of liberty. Discussion Question According to the gospel, what is freedom and when is man free? "THE BRIDE COMES TO YELLOW SKY" This selection by Stephen Crane has been praised as an im- 558 plicit satire on an idealized West, as a major example of literary realism; or as simply a memorable story. Crane himself felt it was a "daisy" of a story. It is surely all of these but, in addition, few narratives equal its sensitive probing of the nature of freedom. In Walter Lippmann's article we see the part played by opposition in clarifying liberty. In "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky" we are helped to understand the necessary connection between freedom and responsibility. There is no talk of freedom in this tale. The characters we meet are not given to philosophizing, but their instinct is sure. Even Scratchy Wilson, blurred by whiskey and unfaltered rage, is sobered and calmed by Jack Potter's announcement that he is now married. We have PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * Hill Cumorah Pageant 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th % Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 18th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 12th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 ~ Phone: 466-8723 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service fotal blectric living UTAH POWER &. LIGHT CO. Lesson Department no reason to believe that Jack will be less effective as a sheriff now that he has a wife but the order which he must now maintain will no longer be part of the game by which he has entertained the town. It is an indication of the refining influence of women in the development of the rugged west. Under the press of responsibility we are tempted to equate freedom with lack of obligations. Children, however, know better. How anxious they are to leave the circumscribed sphere of childhood for the choices of an adult world. If we lose some of a child's careless zest in growing up, we trade it gladly for the enlarged positions of husband, wife, father, mother. As Lehi reminds us, a Garden of Eden universe is static. (2 Ne. 2:22-23.) In the right to choose we prepare ourselves for eternal liberty. Discussion Question Too much responsibility may not prove compatible with freedom. How can we establish the proper balance? BRIGHT ECHO | watched a gull fly low Across the sky, Just where the sunset, Mirrored in the lake, Caused all its beauty To intensify. Alone, where rosy ripples Raced to break, Its bright wings echoed In the lake's reply, Flew its reflected self, In splendor's wake, And seemed the mystic Flight to glorify. —Nona H. Brown 559 101 100 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 560 Mrs. Ella Georgiana Francisco Keele Herkimer Co., New York Mrs. Campbellene Smith Clements Richmond, Virginia Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Altena Ericksen Larsen Newton, Utah Mrs. Sarah Estella Cordon Ogden, Utah Mrs. Ida May Peach Gillespie Wellington, Utah Mrs. Ester Ada King Loveland Boise, Idaho Mrs. Rose Hannah Cottingham Bushell Orem, Utah Mrs. Phebe R. Davies Kanarraville, Utah Mrs. Frances Mary Cask Kirk Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nancy Smith Palmer Safford, Arizona Mrs. Marilla Davis Brown Provo, Utah Mrs. Hilda Johanna Hansen Johnson Waukegan, Illinois Mrs. Mary Ann Cottom Miller St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Keey Court Sutton Coldfield, England Mrs. Mary Nelson Hoopes Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Adria Brough Muir Randolph, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Collins Parrish Centerville, Utah Mrs. Mary Swan Badger Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emmo Jean Dudley Jones Provo, Utah Mrs. Margaret Duncan Meldrom Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Anna Kristine Peterson Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Margaret Boyle West Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Nicholina Borg Young Helena, Montana Mrs.. Emma Baumgartner Hasler Midway, Utah Mrs. Johanna Antonia Ilbel Holmes Ogden, Utah Mrs. Clara Slade Rawlins Hutchinson Whittier, California Mrs. Edith Drake Tingey Centerville, Utah Mrs. Abbie Wordsworth Ashcraft Springville, Utah Mrs. Louisa Mauss Christensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida May Upton Clark New South Wales, Australia Mrs. Elsie Sonberg Cook Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Alice Virginia Smith Freeman Larned, Kansas Mrs. Maud Griffin Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rosa Green Kennedy Randolph, Utah Mrs. Mary Louisa Bigler Kohler Midway, Utah Mrs. Rose Rancher Nelson St. George, Utah Mrs. Sharlotte Ann Lemon Pearce El Monte, California Mrs. Lillian Karen Sorensen Perkins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Stutzneggar Peterson Manti, Utah Mrs. Ruth Fenn Stevens Driggs, Idaho Mrs. Antonia Van Harten Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Ringel Cooper Ward Logan, Utah LEADERSHIP Today and Yesterday 1. LEADERSHIP AND HUMAN RELATIONS A Handbook for Parents, Teachers and Executives by Neil J. Flinders Improved human relations is one of the world's vital needs today to achieve maximum stability at a time of maximum change. There is a need for unusual and keen leadership at all levels of society, spiritually motivated. Leader. Ship development is the theme of this book. Personal preparation is stressed along with the tools and motivation to accomplish it. Parents teachers church and government executives can accomplish better leadership through better human relations. Better leaders accomplish more in less time for the good of all. $4.95 2. THEY MADE MORMON HISTORY by Robert B. Day Here are stories of leaders whose practice of good human relations led to the successful migration of thousands of people in settling the West. These are stories of a rugged people with determination and courage who battled great odds to protect and nourish a treasured faith. $4.95 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 412% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send me [] LEADERSHIP AND HUMAN RELATIONS $4.95 [] THEY MADE MORMON HISTORY $4.95 Total cost $ vseeseece. Enclosed find check (7, money order [], charge established account [7]. Decco eee cece ceeeee ce eeen cee cecceceeseesenaeeesSeZw ae R. S. July 6 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah SIRE bP RIT RTI NOs ema tet ia re 8g Nt Start him right, Dad. To him you ae ° the catch a ball. And the future will prove the wisdom plan. It'll be there when he needs it for college, or a mission. Let your Beneficial Life consultant recommend a plan that grows with you and the needs of your family. See him soon! G your som Virgil H. Smith, Pres. "@ Gonpany Utah 
