[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 420 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out Flower Gardens Grace Her Home | Tillie Pearson]
[The Home Inside and Out Flower Gardens Grace Her Home Tillie Pearson]

May we turn to him, and seek for the better and more spiritua! Values of life. He is our Father; he knows our desires and our hopes, and he will help us if we will but seek him and learn of his ways. My prayerful blessings go with you as you return to your homes. God help us all to discharge our responsibilities by making an environment in home, in school, in Church, and in our communities that will be uplifting, wholesome, and faith-inspiring, I pray in the name of Jesus Chirst, Amen. 419 FLOWER GARDENS GRACE HER HOME Tillie Pearson, Lost River Stake, Moore, Idaho. Raises*many kinds of flowers as her hobby. She has planted every kind of flower she thought would grow in her climate. Her flower gardens are surrounded by different and unusual rocks that she has collected. She has served in Relief Society as a secretary-treasurer, and a counselor to four presidents. For thirty-five years she has attained one hundred per cent visiting teaching, often walking as far as six miles. Sister Pearson is an inspiration to all who know her. She and her husband walked a half a mile each way to attend a Scout Flag-raising ceremony on the Fourth of July at six a. M. She loves the out-of-doors, and at eighty-two, is still able to keep her flowers beautiful. She is the mother of five children, grandmother to seven, and greatgrandmother to three, all of whom are inspired by her attendance at all of her Church meetings, and her kind, helpful ways. 420 PICKLE BOOTH Frances C. Yost THE = "There's nothing like a shift in the garden on a hot summer day to make one appreciate the coolness and downright loveliness of the inside of a home." Dear little Maggie McGee, age seventy-three, was speaking to the house itself. Maggie McGee asked the questions, and Maggie McGee gave the answers, and surely the little house of the Irish lady enjoyed the conversation. "Who else is there to speak to these days? When a body lives alone as long as I have, she finds out a house gets lonely, too, when it never hears any laughter and song. A house needs conversation, and, believe me, MY house is going to get it. If I have to do all the talking myself." Maggie took off her bonnet and let the cucumbers she had gathered in her apron fall into the sink. Later, she would wash and dry them. It looked as if there were enough for a nice batch of bread-and-butter pickles. "Later, this very day, Ill see them shining, pretty and lovely, like emerald jewels, in glass jars. Sure, and I will. And when the date for the Relief Society bazaar is set, why I'll make my usual contribution of a dozen full bottles. That I will. How many years has it been since I started contributing pickles instead of handiwork?" "It has been five years this coming bazaar," Maggie answered herself. "It was the very yeal the doctor warned me that I'd have to start preserving my eyes or they would not be seeing me through. It would break my heart if the time came when I could not enjoy the beauty of my surroundings. And it would make me feel equally as miserable, if I were not able to make my contribution to the annual ward Relief Society bazaar." 

421 June 1968

 Ding! Ding! "There's the telephone begging to be answered. It's a good thing I came in just when I did, or who would have taken the telephone off the hook?" "Hello! Maggie McGee speaking." "This is Sister Clayson calling. How are you today, Sister Maggie?" "Fine as a frilly petunia on a sunny day, President Clayson."' "I'm so glad you are well, Sister Maggie." "I can't remember the time when I wasn't, President Clayson." "The Relief Society would like to ask a special favor of you, Sister McGee, if you feel you are up to it." "I would be glad to do anything the sisters would ask of me, if it doesn't require taxing my eyes." "We wondered if you would make extra pickles for the bazaar?"' "Td be glad to. And what type would you be wanting?" "Sister McGee, we want you to make your regular bread-andbutter pickles. But we want an abundance of them—perhaps fifty jars." "Fifty jars, President Clayson! Why it would infringe on the room of the cooked food goodies."