[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 449 | Fiction | Mabel Harmer | ]
[Mabel Harmer]

CHESTNUT TREES AT JAS DE BOUFFAN" by Paul Cezanne (1839-1906) - French The Minneapolis Institute of Arts 

449 June 1968

 FASHION SAYS (continued from page 446) Because fashion, at this time in many areas, calls for straight short dresses—by the way, Brigham Young said, "Create your own fashions and make your clothing to please yourselves, pleat is inverted, with three pleats on each side of the center inverted pleat. When standing, the pleat appears to be an ordinary kick-pleat, but when you sit it spreads out like a fan over the knees. Independent of outside influences..." He also said, "As for fashion it does not trouble me, my fashion is convenience and comfort." (Jbid., 12:202, 14:21.) It should be ours also. This dress is woven by hand with 20/2 cotton warp, honeysuckle design, with novelty cotton threads in the woof. I have always found a coat-dress wardrobe wearable and comfortable, but short straight styles present a new problem, hence the pleat. This pleat is a complete circle made into a pleated fan with stitches on the edge of each pleat on the under side, to keep the pleats secure. The circle must be cut through from one edge to the center to form the fan. The center AN OLD TRUNK CAN BE REJUVENATED (continued from page 447) I scrubbed the trunk well, inside and out, with soap and water. When it was thoroughly dry, I went over the entire metal surface with aluminum paint. I rubbed this off, to uncover the black design. Using a very small brush and black metal paint, I went over every design. This took a little time and patience—but only a few cents worth of paint. The portions that had always been black, I repainted in that color. The wooden reenforcements I painted first in a dull green. Then I "antiqued" them with a coat of black paint, quickly rubbed off. The "silver' rosettes and clasps I repainted with aluminum paint. I found among the odds and ends in my husband's workbox, a pair of old brass handles, which I put on each end. An old chain made a good catch-hold for opening the lid. There are many ways to finish the inside of such a trunk. Some are quite lovely, but difficult. I like easy-to-do-jobs, so I purchased some quilted calico, black, with a tiny rosebud design. This I simply tacked into place, using rather large-headed tacks. They did not show against the black calico—and the work took only a very short time. I lined both lid and bottom, as both were badly discolored by age. Now I have a small, attractive trunk in my bedroom, in which to keep, without crowding, my very best, hand-embroidered guest linens, or anything else that I wish to have handy. 450 (Continued from page 426) in London. We are eager, of course, to hear what he can tell us about the property." "Eager!" cried Kitty. 'We are simply dying of curiosity. So, be sure you don't get lost in the files and forget to come home in time for dinner." "I'll be here,'"" Maureen promised. "I'm probably just as eager as you to hear his report." Catherine arose from the table. "Well, Diane," she said, "if you're ready we'll go and beard the lioness in her den." "Tm ready—for said Diane. They all put on their wraps and left together—Kitty for her school, Maureen to the tube to catch her train for London, Catherine and Diane for Mrs. Markham's. The sun shone wanly through a light fog and Maureen could not help thinking back to autumn in Utah as she had left it, with the beautiful sights and smells of October. Had it really been as lovely as she now remembered, or was it the companionship of those last days at home that now made it seem so desirable? She had thought often of Steve Madsen— how well they had "hit it off," so to speak. They seemed to have so much in common and to enjoy each other's company so much. She remembered with a glow of happiness the flowers he had sent to the boat and the two letters she had _ received since her arrival in England. In each he had mentioned that he was looking forward to her return. In the city the streets and buildings looked unusually gray. Anything," If Spring Be Late Now there was no sun at all. She thought back to some lines she had read long ago "No leaves —no flowers—no sun—November." To herself she added, "'Especially November in London on a foggy day." For no very good reason, unless it was the weather, she stopped and bought some roasted chestnuts from a street vender. She walked the few short blocks to the Public Records Office on Chancery Lane and hurried inside, hoping for light and warmth. Yesterday she had returned the book, on which she was working, with a word to the librarian that she hoped she chould get it again soon. To her great surprise and pleasure, she found the book on the same desk where she had been working and which had been reserved for her use. There was also a reminder that she would need a sponsor if she planned to work at the library for more than a week. She was sure that Bruce would be able to fill that need, and she settled down to work on the line of Sara Martin, a seventeenth century ancestress. Avtier a brief stop for lunch, she returned to her work with such interest that she failed to realize how the time had passed until she looked up and saw that the room was almost deserted: Glancing out of a window, she could see almost no daylight, although her watch showed the time only half after four. It shouldn't have been so dark even for London, she told herself. Hurriedly, she turned in the book and put on her wraps. 

451 June 1968

 As she went outside she was astonished to see how foggy the day had become. Another worker, just leaving, turned and said, "A regular pea-souper this, eh Miss?" "I'm afraid so," she replied, adding to herself, I'm almost afraid. Barnia growing darkness, she hurried to the station and caught the next train out. There were half a dozen passengers, besides herself, who left. The train at Bahlen. She looked about anxiously to see if there was anyone she could recognize at all who might be going in her direction. There was no one and, within seconds, they had all disappeared into the fog. It was so heavy that she could not see across the street. "At least I know the right direction for starting," she told herself. "How long I can keep going is something else again." She went on for a block or two, but couldn't be at all sure of where she was to make the turn towards home. Home, she thought longingly. True, there were fogs, at times so bad that planes couldn't land, but there was nothing like this. At home, too, she knew her way about in the worst of them. Now, she might wander for hours. Occasionally, someone passed by, and there was an automobile or two that crept slowly along, the driver evidently trying to follow the line in the street. She was rather sure that none of them wanted to stop and take on a passenger, even if she had dared to ask. She came to a turn in the street that she could feel, rather than see, was unfamiliar. She turned and started back again. At the next turn she hesitated. She hadn't the least idea which way to go. As she stood trying to make up her mind what to do next she saw someone approaching. "Can you tell me?" she began, but was interrupted by a familiar voice calling "Is that you, dearie?" "Oh, Mrs. Murch!" cried Maureen. "Am I ever glad to see you. But, how did you happen to come here?" "It was no happening, my love," was the reply. "I was fearful you might lose your way in this fog, so I came to meet you." "How wonderful! I can't tell you how relieved I am. I was becoming more frightened every minute. But how did you know when to come?" "Oh, I just guessed," she answered in a matter-of-fact tone. "If you hadn't been on_ this train I could have waited for another." Maureen took her arm and they headed for home. Poor, dear, foolish Mrs. Murch, she was thinking. Perhaps she had become used to meeting trains over the years in the hopes that Cynthia would be coming on one of them. Whatever the reason, Maureen was ever so grateful that she had come to meet this one. "I hope the family wasn't worried about me," she said. "Well, I rather think they were. Even one who knows her way about can get lost in these pea-soupers. Then, they thought there was a fair chance that you might have decided to stay in town. To be sure, they were so taken with this artist fellow that they didn't think too much about anything else. That would be my guess, anyway." "Oh, yes, of course! You mean McPherson, the artist from Scotland. I had forgotten that he was to be here tonight—and If Spring Be Late with news of the castle. I'm awfully glad that I didn't stay in town, although I most certainly would have done just that if I had realized how frightful this fog can be. If it hadn't been for you meeting me, I might have wandered about for hours. Unless I could have met another good Samaritan, that is." She was almost surprised to find herself presently standing at their own front door. When it was opened the scene of cheer and warmth was such a contrast to the bleak outdoors that she gave an involuntary gasp. A bright fire burned in the living room hearth, as well as one in the dining room on the other side. The family was gathered around the hearth, looking just as bright and animated as the blaze itself. They turned quickly to welcome Maureen. Catherine came out into the hallway. "We thought that you must have decided to remain in town when you didn't get here earlier. We couldn't imagine that you would try to come home in this fog." "IT came only because I didn't quite realize the depths of your British fogs," replied Maureen. 'Another time I shall certainly come earlier—or not at all. If it hadn't been for Mys. Murch, I might still have been wandering about, completely lost." "We didn't know that she had gone out either," said Catherine, "or one of us would have gone with her. Do take off your wraps now and come in and meet our guest." Maureen did so as quickly as possible. Upstairs, she freshened her makeup and returned to the 453 living room to greet "our tenant," she thought with a whimsical smile. As the two men arose, Bruce said, "May I present Robert McPherson who rents our cottage, guards our lands and paints our landscapes—my cousin Maureen Taggart." McPherson clasped her hand and said warmly, "I'm so happy to meet such a charming landlady. I trust that you will be satisfied with my accounting." Maureen smiled. "I'm sure that I shall be. I had no idea that there was an account of any kind." "As a matter of fact, there are no accounts so far," he conceded. "But there well may be in the future. It will all depend upon what you want to do with the estate—or can do with it." "I'm simply dying to learn all about it," said Kitty. "Especially all of the elegant things in the castle so that I can impress the girls at school. Is there a ghost, for instance?" "To be sure," he replied firmly. "Every castle in Scotland has its ghost—the: older and more decrepit, the better. I mean the 'castle, of course, and not the ghost." 454 "Then I imagine that our castle qualifies for a first-rate ghost," said Julia, "since it is practically a ruin, from all I've heard so far." "Before we start on it," said Catherine, "do let us have our dinner. Cook has been making signs to me the past quarter hour. Then we can hear all about it at our leisure." On the way into the dining room Maureen had a chance to whisper to Diane, "What about the job?" "I took it, of course. I had no choice." "Would you have taken it otherwise?" "Perhaps," Diane gave a small shrug. "It's too soon to tell. Anyway, I worked all day. Just that alone, and under any conditions, gives me a good feeling." "Yes, I know." After dinner, they returned to the living room to hear more about their castle. As they settled down again around the hearth, Mr. McPherson said, "I suppose you know that it hasn't been lived in for at least twenty years. In fact, part of the wall on the northeast side is missing entirely." "But there must be a great deal left," said Julia. "Surely some of it could be made livable." Yes, indeed," he agreed. "Much of it could. There are a number of rooms in which the furniture still remains. There are cupboards and closets that have never been opened since the death of the late Lord Angus Taggart. I go through once in a while just to see that nothing is disturbed." "And do you ever see the ghost?" asked Kitty, wide-eyed. "Let me think, now. No, I guess that I have only heard him—or her. Unless, of course, it was the wind I heard rattling the loose boards and tiles about." "No, indeed," Kitty insisted. "It has to be the ghost." "Very well," he agreed, "as you wish." "What about the grounds?' asked Bruce. "Is there any way that we might use them for profit?" "Oh, yes. Much of it is used now for grazing sheep—and some cattle. No one has paid for the privilege for years. You'll have to institute some very strong understandings." Bruce frowned thoughtfully. "Do you have any idea how much money it would take to put part of the place into some kind of condition so that a family could live there. Just a few rooms, say?" "Oh, I should say a few thousand pounds, for a start." Bruce whistled. "A few thousand pounds! And I, a_ poor schoolteacher. "And I a poor librarian," added Maureen, smiling. Suddenly, Mrs. Murch, who! F Spring Be Late had sat by all evening saying nothing, as usual, broke the silence by saying calmly, "I have money. You're welcome to use that." No one paid very much attention. Catherine merely answered, "You're very kind, but you have a need for that money you have." "Well not all of it," said Mrs Murch. "It's been in the Bank of London all these years. And I haven't had to spend any by living here." "Thank you very much for the offer," said Bruce. "If we find that we can do anything with the castle, we'll call on you." She seemed satisfied with that, and the matter was dropped. 'The talk then turned to McPherson's pictures and the exhibit that had brought him to London. "T do hope that some of you can come up tomorrow and have a look," he said. "Many of them were painted on your castle grounds and would give you some idea at least, of what it looks like." "Tomorrow is school for me, of course," said Bruce, "But I'd like to come on Saturday. It will be open then, I suppose." "And I have to work," said Julia. "Kitty's in school. So, how about you, Mum?" "I have a meeting of the garden club to settle the past season's business. Anyway, I'll wait and go with your father on Saturday." "Not a soul free!" exclaimed McPherson, "I really am _ disappointed." "Why, there's Maureen!" cried Kitty. "She goes up nearly every day anyway. I'm sure 

455 June 1968

 she'll be delighted to go with you." Maureen blushed slightly at Kitty's candid invitation, but McPherson's face lighted up with. Pleasure. "Would you indeed, Miss Taggart?" "To be sure," she agreed. "I'd be most happy." "Good!" he exclaimed. "You are sure to enjoy the scenes of the castle—even though they are somewhat idealized. You may even enjoy seeing the rest of the exhibition. There are some very good artists appearing." "I'm sure that I shall enjoy all of it," she said. After they had gone to their room, Diane asked, "Well, what did you think of him?" "It was very interesting," Maureen answered easily. "It was rather fun to hear something about the castle from one who actually lives there." "Skip the castle! I want to know what you think of McPherson." "He's very attractive,' Maureen replied. "He is quite different from our American men, of course." "And you just might be interested in this bit of information. The gentleman is unmarried." "He is!" exclaimed Maureen. "I thought that would wake you up, I took pains to inquire. He's a widower with twins, seven years old—a boy and a girl." "My interest is still strictly in the castle," declared Maureen. "Okay. After your trip to town tomorrow, we'll hear if there is any change of heart—or interest." Maureen did not answer. They lay quiet, each thinking over the events of the day. For Maureen, 456 the nightmare of the fog was almost forgotten in the pleasure of the evening and in the anticipation of a pleasant day on the morrow. It would be fun to spend a day in London and to see the exhibit with an artist who could explain the pictures to her. Just as she was drifting off to sleep, Diane said, "You know— wouldn't it be something if Mrs. Murch did have money—real money, I mean? Just imagine what it might be, lying in the bank all these years and drawing interest. And her living off the Taggarts all these years. Isn't life strange?" "Strange and interesting and full of surprises. But most people are awfully nice.". "Even Mrs. Markham — I hope," sighed Diane. 'Yes, there is hope that even Mrs. Markham will turn out to be a human being." "Ts she really such a terror? "No, not at all, really. She just expects her secretary to do all the work. She writes this syndicated column, you know, on etiquette. Evidently she figures that as long as she has made the contacts, the hired help can do the rest. She has shelves of books, and I had to find the answers to every question that came in. Anyway, it's a job, and I'm grateful. And, while I'm drudging away, Ill think of you out seeing the glories of the art world with a fascinating stranger." "I just hope it's half as exciting as you make it sound," said Maureen. The warm glow in her heart made her feel that it might easily be just that. (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Portneuf Stake (Idaho) Former Relief Society Officers Honored Former officers of Portneuf Stake Relief Society, front row, left to right: Nellie C. Christensen, SecretaryTreasurer; Esther L. Bishoff, First Counselor; Dora B. Christensen, Second Counselor; Fern T. Hartvigsen, President Present officers, back row, left to right: Helen H. McDaniel, Secretary-Treasurer Elda R. Nielsen, Second Counselor; Dora M. Johnson, First Counselor: Helen G. Toler. President. Sister Toler reports: "At a recent leadership meeting the outgoing Relief Society presidency was honored for the many years of outstanding service they have rendered. A special reading about each sister was given, and each was presented a copy of A History of Relief Society. These sisters had served for eight years."