[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | October | Issue: 4 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. | Author: EMMA FEATHERSTONE,]

	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine stake was held in the large
new meetinghouse Pleasant Grove on Friday,
April 30, 1909. President Rebecca Standring
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Standring greeted the sisters, spoke of
the late General Conference in Salt Lake
City and the remarks of President Joseph
F. Smith, the spirit of which was “Peace, be
still.” We have nothing to fear if we do
our duty. Which was also beautifully por-
trayed in our Stake Conference held a week
ago. Let us be faithful and do our duty and
all will be well with us. Let us not think
that when we pass from here that our work
will be done, for we shall find that we will
still be busy. This existence is only a school
of preparation. Let us show that our hearts
are in the work.
	Reading by Emma J. T: Roberts on
“Compensation, or the reward of action.”
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman,
thought there was a very good representa-
tion of the stake this morning. We know
what the sisters are doing, and the good
which they accomplish.
	Sister Standring has the faculty of having
the sisters work in union, and they take
pleasure in their labors, keeping busy and
honor their calling. We should be a light
to the world. People who have lived among
us say they never saw a more industrious
people. Our mission is to save all who will
be saved. You sisters are accomplishing
much good.
	Sister Emily C. Bullock felt grateful to
the Lord that she was able to be here and
partake of the spirit of this meeting. Could
see a great improvement in the people for
the sisters are doing a good work in the
wards. Was thankful for her standing in the
Church and desired to spend the remainder
of her days in usefulness among the people.
	Singing. Benediction by Counselor Har-
riet Jacobs.
	Afternoon Session: Conference 2 p. m.
Counselor Annie C. Hindley in charge.
	After the devotional exercises.
	Duet, “Beyond the Shadows” by Sisters
Blanch Greenwood and Ellen Smith.
	Sister Sina Chipman gave a talk on the
importance of instilling faith into our chil-
dren. The greatest need is religious train-
ing in the home.
	Sister Ellen D. Clarke gave a short sketch
of the life of Sister Emma S. Featherstone,
showing her devotion to the work of the
Lord, and her diligence in Relief Society
work.
	Brother A. J. Evans of the Stake Presi-
dency. When we meet in such assemblies
as this, we enjoy the spirit and feeling of
each other and our Father in Heaven, and
can apply it to our lives. Spoke along the
line of prohibition and habits in the home
in regard to the word of wisdom. Alpine
stake stands almost at the head of the list
alphabetically. Let us strive to have it at
the top in living up to the word of God.
	Brother James H. Clarke of the Stake Pre-
sidency said when you heard the truth in
your native land, you compared it with the
scripture and found it correct. It is just as
true today. We cannot shirk the responsi-
bility of it, and the Lord will prepare us for
it if we do our part and serve Him faithfully.
The Latter-day Saints should be the first to
abolish the evil of intemperance, and use
our influence in the suppression of the liquor

[Column 2]
traffic. Let us place the seal of dishonor on
it and not give license to such places. Spoke
of the erection of the Stake Tabernacle and
advised the sisters to prepare to leave a
legacy after they are gone beyond so that
children and others may see our good works.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman en-
dorsed the remarks of the brethren. Let
us be interested in building our Stake Taber-
nacle. It will be an honor to us in days to
come and we will be thankful that we have
helped to build and pay for it, if it is ever so
small. May God bless the efforts of the sis-
ters of Alpine stake.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt that we
had had a feast of fat things and prayed the
Lord’s choicest blessings upon us as mothers
and advised us to help in the building of the
Tabernacle Compared the gospel and the
life to come to traveling in an Ocean Steamer.
We can have first, second or third class pas-
sage, just as we wish, by the deeds of this
life. Thanked the sisters of Pleasant Grove
for the nice lunch they had served, and com-
mended the move for it makes the work of
the sisters less and they have more time to
attend meeting and devote to other duties.
	Meeting closed by singing. Prayer by Pre-
sident Rebecca Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.


[Column 1]
