[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | October | Issue: 4 | Title: In Memoriam | Author: ANSINE M. PETERSON,]

IN MEMORIAM.
	A brief sketch of the life of Sister Maren Peder-
sen.
	Sister Pedersen was born at Stroe, Sjolland,
Denmark, April 29, 1823 Her parents and her
children were greatly honored and respected
among their associates. They were prosperous
farmers and mechanics, and were possessed of
considerable musical ability. She and her hus-
band, Hans Pedersen, embraced the Gospel in
1862, emigrated to Zion in 1866, came to East
Mill Creek, but moved on the Weber in Summit
county, then removed to Wilford Ward, in the
Granite Stake, where they finally made their
home.
	Hans Pedersen died twenty years ago last
June.
	Sister Pedersen was the mother of ten children,
six of whom preceded her to the other side.
	She identified herself with the Relief Society in
1870, and later became a teacher in that organiza-
tion. She was a conscientious and faithful wotk-
er, kind to the poor and afflicted, even the ani-
mals shared her love and kindness. Her name is
found on the tithing, Relief Society and grain as-
sociation records; and wherever and whenever a
call was made upon her she always responded
cheerfully and liberally.
	She was very hospitable, none went from her
door hungry, and many she had clothed, like
“Dorcas of old.”
	She would card and spin and knit mittens and
stockings for many little cold hands and feet,
	She would rather deny herself than see others
suffer or go without help. She truly honored her
father and mother, for she lived her religion
faithfully; she also worked in the Salt Lake and
Logan Temples for her departed kindred as far as
she could secure their genealogy.
	She was the only member of her father’s house-
hold who embraced the Gospel, and because of
her faithfulness lived to a good, old age. She
enjoyed the love and tender care of her children
and grandchildren until the close of her eventful
life.
	Sister Pedersen died June 3, 1909, and leaves
one son, three daughters, twenty-seven grand-
children, twenty-three great-grandchildren and a
host of true friends, to mourn her departure. She
died as she lived in full faith of the Gospel, and a
hope of a glorious resurrection, as well as an
eternal union with her loved ones.
					ANSINE M. PETERSON,
In behalf of the Relief Society of the Wilford
Ward in the Granite Stake.


[Column 1]	
