[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | November | Issue: 5 | Title: R. S. REPORT | Author: ELIZA A. HAWKINS,]

			R. S. REPORT
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly onference of the
Relief Society of Nebo Stake, held at Lake
Shore, Sept. 24, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 o’clock a. m.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing; prayer; singing, and other usual exer-
cises. Sister Serena Yond, president of
Lake Shore spoke a few words of welcome.
Sister Kapple made the response of wel-
come and spoke of the Relief Society work
as being organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Felt thankful for the testimony she
had of the truthfulness of the Gospel. Sis-
ter Dixon spoke of the organization of the
Church, how perfect it is; there are organi-
zations for all from the child up, where they
are instructed in the Gospel. The sisters
are expected to look after the morals of the
sisters and encourage the brethren to good
works; spoke on the work of the teachers
visiting and taking care of the sick and
needy, and laying away the dead, we should
be thankful that there is an organization to
look after these things. Let us be faithful
and keep the commandments of the Lord.
Sister Monk reported Palmyra Ward, forty
members enrolled, doing a good work, and

[Column 2]
helping the missionaries. Sister Yond re-
ported Lake Shore in good condition, bore
her testimony.
	Hymn by the choir. An exercise was
given by Sister Crook on parents’ class
work, subject “Motherhood.”
	Duett by Mary E. Berry and Gwen Huff,
entitled “Daughters of Zion.”
	Sister Brown who has been called to
labor in the Primary spoke for a short
time; said her interest was still in the Re-
lief Society, feels that the Spirit of the
Lord is with us today, if we are sincere the
Lord will answer our prayers and we can
all gain a testimony for ourselves if we
work for it and pray to the Lord.
	Brother Joseph Tanner spoke a short
time on shirking the responsibility of rais-
ing children. Related a circumstance of a
brother’s spirit leaving his body, and the
condition he found himself in, he was in
debt and was permitted to come back and
pay debts; spoke of his trip to Canada, and
some of the conditions there: how well
meetings were attended, and the good feel-
ing that prevailed. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m., by singing.
	Benediction by Sister Eliza A. Hawkins.
	Afternoon session: Conference recon-
vened at 2 p. m., President Eliza J. Dixon
presiding. Singing; prayer; singing, and
usual exercises.
	Sister Hawkins made a few remarks
on her trip to California and her visit to
the branch of the Church in Los Angeles.
Song by Sister Hortense Anderson entitled,
“I need thee every hour.”
	A lecture was given on spiritual growth,
how knowledge comes, by Sister Evans.
	Bishop Argyle spoke on the sick being
healed by administration. Spoke of the
power our sisters have in administering to
the sick. Said we are preparing ourselves
for the second coming of-the Savior.
	Recitation by Sister Lizzie Huff, entitled
“If we knew.”
	Sister Kapple said we only gain by the
knowledge we get. We should train our
children by our own examples as mothers,
if we are humble and faithful the Lord
will bless us and we will be guided right
and know what to do when our children are
sick. Spoke of the blessings that are prom-
ised us if we keep the word of wisdom;
also on keeping our records correctly.
	Brother Francis spoke on Relief Society
work. Sister Dixon made a few closing
remarks, and thanked the people of Lake
Shore for their hospitality.
	Conference adjourned for three months
by singing and benediction by Elder Nath-
an Clayson.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
