[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: UTAH HISTORICAL SOCIETY. | Author: Unknown]

UTAH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

	THE organization of the State Historical
Society of Utah, which has been under way
since the midsummer Jubilee, was effected
at a meeting held first Tuesday Jan. 1898.
The meeting occured in the counting room
of the Utah National Bank, and assembled
in response to a call from the temporary
chairman, Mr. Jerrold R. Letcher. The
by-laws of the society were adopted and
the articles of incorporation signed, after
which the officers were chosen as follows:
	Franklin D. Richards, president; Isabella
Cameron Brown, vice-president; Jerrold R.
Letcher, recording secretary; James T.
Hammond, corresponding secretary; Lewis 
S. Hills, treasurer; Antoniette B. Kinney, 
librarian.
	Executive comittee—George W. Thatch-
er, Logan; Joseph Geoghegan, Salt Lake;
Lewis W. Shurtliff, Ogden; Joseph B.
Kingsbury, Salt Lake; Electa Bullock,
Provo; John T, Caine, Salt Lake; Robert
C. Lund, St. George; Charles C. Goodwin,
Salt Lake; Henry W. Lawrence, Salt Lake.
	The objects for which the society is or-
ganized are: “The encouragement of his-
torical research and inquiry, by the explor-
ation and investigation of aboriginal monu-
ments and remains; the collection of such
material as may serve to illustrate the
growth, development and resources of Utah
and the intermountain region; the preserv-
ation of manuscripts, papers, documents
and tracts of value, especially narratives of
the adventures of the early explorers and
pioneers; the establishment and maintenance
of a public library and museum; the cultiva-
tion of science, literature and the liberal
arts; the holding of meetings at stated inter-
vals for the interchange of views and critic-
sms.
THE CHARTER MEMBERS.
	Charles Adams, Parowan; Caleb R. Bar- 
ratt, Robert N. Baskin, Charles W. Bennett,
Alexander C. Bishop, Nat M. Brigham,
Isabella Cameron Brown, Salt Lake; Electa
Bullock, Provo; John T. Caine, Angus
M. Cannon, John Q. Cannon, Spencer
Clawson, Edward F. Colborn, George Q.
Coray, Benjamin F. Cummings Jr., Chris
Diehl, John E. Dooly. Williard Done, Ellen


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
B. Ferguson, Salt Lake; James X. Fergu-
son, Helper; Charles C. Goodwin, Joseph
Geoghegan, Heber J. Grant Salt Lake;
James T. Hammond, Logan; Harry C. 
Hill, Tidelia Belcher Hamilton, Lewis S.
Hills, Salt Lake; John Horton, American
Fork; William Howard, Huntington; Had-
ley D. Johnson, Andrew Jenson, Joseph T.
Kingsbury, Antoinette B. Kinney, Clesson
S. Kinney, Eurithe K. La Barthe, Henry
Lawrence, Salt Lake; William A. Lee,
Ogden; Jerrold R. Letcher, Salt Lake;
Robert C. Lund, St. George; John T.
Lynch Thomas Marshall, Salt Lake; Jacob
F. Miller, Farmington; Elias Morris, Wil-
liam S. McCornick, Salt Lake; Harry F.
McCune, Nephi; Emma J. McVicker, Salt
Lake, Aqulla Nebeker, Laketown; John
Parry, Cedar; Orlando W. Powers, Charles
W. Penrose, Arthur Pratt, Salt Lake;
Franklin D. Richards, Ogden; Franklin S.
Richards, Morris L. Ritchie, Charles R.
Savage, Salt Lake; Lewis W. Shurtliff,
Ogden; Elias A. Smith, Grant H. Smith,
John Henry Smith, Salt Lake; Joseph D.
Smith, Logan; Abraham O. Smoot, Provo;
George W. Thatcher, Logan; Mat Thomas,
Farmington; Emmeline B. Wells, Salt
Lake; Barry Wride, Provo; Heber M.
Wells, Horace G. Whitney, Orson F.
Whitney, Everett W. Wilson, Parley L.
Williams, John R. Winder, Alfales Young,
Richard W. Young, Charles S. Zane, Salt 
Lake.
BY-LAWS
	Section 1. Any person of good, moral
character who is interested in the work of
this society may be eligible to membership
upon complying with the conditions pre-
scribed in these by-laws.
	Section 2. Active members shall con-
sist of residents of the State of Utah. Life
members shall consist of such residents of
the State as may contribute not less than 
$50 to the endowment fund of the society.
Corresponding members shall consist of
non-residents of the State of literary and
historical attainments. Honorary members
may consist of explorers and Pioneers, or
persons distinguished for literary or scien-
tific work, particularly in the line of
American history, who are non-residents of
the State.
	Section 3. Applications for membership
shall be endorsed by not less than three
active members in good standing and pre-
sented to the board of control, and, in the
case of active and life memberships, must
be accompanied by the initiation fee.
	Section 4. Life, corresponding and
honorary members shall be exempt from
the payment of dues and assessments.
	Section 5. Members shall be chosen by
majority vote of the board of control—ex-
cept honorary members—who shall be elect-
ed at the annual meetings of the Society.
	Section 6. Any member may be expelled
for cause by the board of control, upon
charges duly preferred, and after a hearing,
subject to the right of appeal to the society
at the next ensuing annual meeting; pro-
vided that a failure to pay any dues or as-
sessments for six months shall work a for-
feiture of membership.
	The by-laws provide for commissioners
to be appointed each year by the president,
and during the summer of every year there
will be a field day of the society.
	The initial and annual membership fees
ars each $2, and the board of control are
given authority to levy assessments not to

[Column 2]
exceed $1, and to be made not more fre-
quent than than once a year.
	The regular meeting of the board of con-
trol will be held the first week in January,
April, July and October of each year, and
the president or board are authorized to call
special meetings. The regular meetings of
the society for the transaction of general
business are to be held on the third Mon-
day in January of each year.


