Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Eastern States Mission., Following are excerpts from a letter from Miss Elizabeth Skofield, president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States: Since my appointment I have held conferences in Pittsburgh, New England, and Wilson, Pennsylvania; Washington, D. C., Baltimore, Waynesboro, Lynn, Salem, New Bedford and Providence, New York, Hoboken and Brooklyn, Springfield, Hartford and HOBOKEN RELIEF SOCIETY, EASTERN STATES MISSION New Haven, and I am arranging now to visit Binghamton, Scranton, Philadelphia, Burlington, Vt., Fairmont, W. Va., and Newark, N. J. There will be but one conference and four Societies which I cannot visit before my return home. In my conference trips I have stressed several items, particularly the officers' and teachers' prayer meeting, monthly ward teaching, with close adherence to the teacher's topic, one hundred per cent subscription for the Relief Society Magazine, genealogical work, special nonmembers meeting and delinquent members meeting. Several reports from the work of the conferences are very encouraging. Pittsburgh, Pa., reports the teachers are having good success in 
 their visits, which has materially increased the attendance and brought more spiritual life to the branch. Baltimore reports that their response has been greater, due to added spiritual strength of the officers' and teachers' prayer meeting. They have monthly project work in the form of a social or entertainment of some kind to raise funds for janitor service for the Baltimore chapel. The Hartford Relief Society has begun the work of compiling a cook book. Mrs. Moore has written to many prominent clubs throughout the country for recipes and she has secured extensive advertising to defray the expense of publication. She tells me that the response from club women has been splendid, and that the business men have been generous in giving advertisements. When all of the recipes finally come in, the head dietician at Yale University has promised to compile the book. The funds from this book are to be used in the interest of a chapel for Hartford. The Hoboken Relief Society, which is composed mainly of Hollanders and Germans, has a membership of 21, with an average attendance of 15. Most of the members are young mothers with children. Meetings are held on Wednesday evening, so Wednesday is mother's night out, and father's night in, and both benefit thereby. The members are faithful, and attend meetings regularly no matter what the weather. Sickness or failure of thehusband to reach home on time are the two causes of absence. They observe the Word of Wisdom, and generally strive to live up to the gospel. Each year a bazaar is held for which the sisters work diligently and a good sum is realized which supplies the society with the funds needed. At the conference held recently the sisters recited the Articles of Faith in English, gave several musical numbers, and each of the officers gave a brief talk. The Washington Relief Society in the four months of its organization had a membership of thirty-three, and an average attendance of twenty-two. The Society proved to be one of our most successful organizations from the standpoint of arousing branch interest, adding spiritual life to the community and being a social factor. Mrs. Don B. Colton and her officers were very energetic, and even though she will not be there this season the Society will continue. There have been two new Relief Societies organized in the mission, one of them at Verdunville, West Virginia, on April 24, 1926, with a membership of seven. This Society has raised funds for a record book, a Sacrament set, and are bending their energies toward a chapel fund. They have a 100% subscription for the Relief Society Magazine. On June 30, a Society was effected at Burlington, Vermont. Already the Society has added interest in the branch, and stimulated them to greater efforts. The Buffalo Relief Society was reorganized July 4, as the president was unable te give the needed time, due to having small NOTES FROM THE FIELD 521 children to care for. At present the Buffalo Society is doing some praiseworthy charity work. The Brooklyn Relief Society was reorganized April 20. The Lynn-Salem Relief Society was reorganized May 18. This is one of the most energetic and efficient Relief Societies in the mission. A good many of the Relief Societies have continued through the Summer with excellent development. The New Bedford Relief Society has held special Genealogical meetings and are sending in names to be sent to the temple, for work to be done. Mrs. Davey, the president of the Binghamton Relief Societies, writes, "We have been quite closely following the program for Summer work given in the May number of the Relief Society Magazine, all open nights being successfully planned." One of the great helps to Relief Society work is the department "Notes from the Field," in the Relief Society Magazine. These Notes give added courage and inspiration, enlarge our vision, and suggest new ideas. Deseret and Millard Stakes. Through the efforts of the Relief Societies of Millard county, which include Millard and Deseret stakes, the school board and county commissioners granted'a petition signed by more than 800 mothers asking for a community nurse. Everybody concerned is delighted that the school children will be protected the coming year by the inspection and supervision they will receive as a result of this movement. The women of Millard county are heartily congratulated on this excellent piece of work in the interest of the health and future welfare of their children. The clinics held in Delta, June 16-17, and in Hinckley, June 18-19, were good. It is pleasing to note the follow-up work being done. The mothers are interested, and a few fathers, too, were seen taking a real interest this year. The state board of health is thus doing much to help out the health conditions of the rural communities. The young mothers of the stake are intensely interested in the social service lessons including the text book The Challenge of Childhood. In the Lynndyl ward the text is left in the public library, and it is really surprising to know how many of the young mothers take time to go to the library and read the lessons. The wards of Deseret stake are holding ward conferences for Relief Society work during the Summer months. The teachers' conventions have also been planned. The twelve wards will combine and meet in sections of four wards to a convention. The ward in which the convention is held will entertain the visitors from other wards. It is felt that this will generate a feeling of hospitality amongst the visiting teachers, and a good program is outlined, with ample time for getting acquainted. The visiting teachers present will be given a card to keep as a guide in the Relief Society teaching in their districts. 
 Star Valley Stake. For the past year the Relief Society organizations of the Star Valley stake have been striving to arouse interest in the public health nurse question, and at the present time they have, by cooperating with the school district, succeeded in raising funds sufficient to install a resident nurse. This will give the mothers, and the children of pre-school age, as well as the school children, opportunity for health examination and instruction. While the task has been difficult, the women feel sure that every family in the valley will receive material benefits from the resident nurse. Juab Stake. Thursday, August 5, the Mona Relief Society, under the direction of Mrs. Mary 1. Newell and her counselors, took a most pleasant and profitable outing in a sight-seeing tour of Salt Lake City. About twenty members of the organization left Mona, which is about 80 miles south of Salt Lake, at 5 a. M. And arrived at Liberty Park about 8a. M. Breakfast was served at the Park shortly after arriving. During breakfast, Mr. M. M. King, of Mona, the only male member of the party, made a short talk outlining the program for the day. After breakfast the sights of the park were enjoyed, after which a visit was made to. The State Prison. Here the warden made a short talk which was very interesting. He stated that they had had many organizations of various kinds call at the prison but that was the first Relief Society organization to call. He seemed very much pleased with the visit. The party was courteously conducted through the prison by the guards and was pleased with the order and system. Considerable time was spent in the library. From here a trip was made to the University of Utah, where some time was spent in the museum. The tabernacle was next visited, where an organ recital was greatly enjoyed. After luncheon at a cafeteria the party proceeded to the State Capitol, where the members were shown through the building with its many interests, and while seated in the Governor's reception room, listened to a very interesting talk on the capitol and the state. The Hotel Utah was the next place of interest. The party was shown through the hotel and from the roof garden viewed the City and outlying points. A trip was then made to Saltair, and later Fort Douglas was visited. This was a special treat to those of the party who had never seen a fort of any kind before. After supper, the group went to the Pantages theatre, which, with the ride home, concluded the day's pleasure. All expressed themselves as highly pleased with the day's program. Emery Stake. On June 20, 1926, the Relief Societies of the Emery stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD 523 held a successful and interesting conference. A program of ' duets, quartets and anthems, together with the following subjects, were given: Membership in the Relief Society; Temple and Charity Funds. The subjects were treated in a general way, as well as with reference to local conditions. At this conference, June 29, 1926, was set apart as Temple Fund day for the Relief Societies of Emery stake. Tooele Stake. On August 10, 1926, a very successful Relief Society teachers' convention was held at Grantsville, at which the following program was rendered, after the usual opening exercises: The Importance of the Visiting Teachers, President Maggie W. Anderson; Violin Solo, Grantsville First ward; Demonstration of a teacher's visit to the home, Tooele South ward; Duet, Lake View ward; Demonstration of the Order of Conducting the Work and Business Meeting, Grantsville Second ward. The closing number was a solo and chorus by Tooele North ward, the words of which were composed by the chorister of that ward. After the benediction, refreshments were served to those present. One ward reported thirty-one teachers present. The stake board has decided to give a prize to the ward having the most visits made by the teachers up until the New Year. Beaver Stake. The 84th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was celebrated throughout the Beaver stake on March 17. The two Societies of the Beaver wards joined in holding their entertainment at 2 p.m. In the High School Auditorium, where a three-act play, entitled St. Peter and the Relief Society, was presented by the West ward, which was very effective in its meaning, and was much enjoyed by a large audience. All the other parts of the program were furnished by the East ward. At the close, luncheon was served to more than three hundred people. Appropriate programs were given in the other wards, followed by banquets. In some instances over 130 people were seated at tables. Maricopa Stake. A very successful and interesting stake teacher's convention and Relief Society annual conference was held in May. There was a good attendance, over 160 being present at the morning session, and many more in the afternoon. A brief synopsis of the General Relief Society conference was given, also a teachers' convention program, and in addition, pantomimes, pageants, etc. Among other things a pageant was given by the Third Ward Relief Society as part of the


program. It consisted of an original poem written by Mrs. Aldredge, one of the members, portraying the life of Moses. As it was read by a very fluent reader, several members, in costume illustrated the different characters and events. The little Lehi ward also gave us an original stunt, called Glimpses from Real Life. It brought out the help that the ordinary homemaker can receive from attendance at Relief Society meetings, and by learning to budget her time. During the noon hour a delicious luncheon was served by the stake board. On April 8, the Federation of Women's clubs, planned to visit the temple now nearing completion. It was a very stormy day and out of the two or three hundred women who expected to attend there were only about sixty who came. They were welcomed and cared for by the stake board members, who presented them with flowers and served them with light refreshments. The officers of the local Women's club were asked to help on the entertainment committee, which they did with willingness and pleasure. The state of Arizona is giving a course to its women called Extension of Domestic Science and Art Work, and the Relief Society organization was in charge of the first class. Special leaders were asked to present this first work in the various activities of the wards. The leader of this project work was very much pleased with the beginning and hopes for big results throughout the state.
Moapa Stake. The Panaca ward of the Moapa stake, under the auspices of the Relief Society, has held a very successful clinic. Forty children of pre-school age were given a thorough examination. Of the number examined, seven were in normal condition. The prevailing defects were teeth, tonsils, and adenoids. Two heart and two hernia cases were found. A few had rickets and enlarged glands, and a number had discharging ears. Mrs. Sadie P. Lee, social welfare worker for our district, and a member of the Moapa Stake Relief Society board, arranged and took charge of the work. Dr. J. H. Hastings, of Pioche, and Dr. C. Countryman, of Caliente, kindly offered their services which were greatly appreciated by the ward Relief Society officers.
Box Elder Stake. The Brigham City Health Center was organized for maternity and pre-school age child-welfare work, February 28, 1924, by the State Bureau of Child Hygiene, under the Sheppard-Towner Act, and in cooperation with the Woman's
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 525
Relief Society and Civic associations of Brigham City. Number of clinics held, 43; children given physical examination, 486; normal children, 41; under weight children, 75%; number of defects found, 1,064; follow-up work cases, 160; medical assistance given to adults, 3; operations performed?tonsils and adenoids, 54; minor operations, 9; total 63. Number of cases given dental attention, 87.
Financial Report:
Receipts 1924
Feb. 20?From Relief Society Stake Board for equipment of clinic Center.................................................................$ 75.00 June 1?From Civic Improvement Club.................................. 50.00 July 28?Proceeds of a theatrical performance under direction of John Baird......................................................... 72.34 Nov. 4?From Red Cross................................................. 50.00
Receipts 1925
April 20?From Kiwanis Club............................................ 25.00
Receipts 1926
Feb. 24?From Civic Improvement Club.................................. 25.00 Mar. 4?From surplus amount collected for Brigham City............ 25.45 From stake and ward Relief Societies at various times......... 1,067.21
 Total Receipts................................................$1,390.00
Disbursements
For Maternity Bundle Department, Nurse's wages, since July, 1923..............................................$ 775.00 For equipment of Clinic............................................. 75.00 For operations?dental work and general expenses................ 529.00
 Total Disbursements..........................................$1,379.00
 Cash on Hand................................................... 11.00

                                                          $1,390.00
The Nurse, Mrs. Annie R. Tingey, in charge of the Maternity Bundle Department, reports: Bundles on hand, 14; times used free in maternity cases, 72; times rented for maternity cases, 142; total times used, 214; fee charged for use (generally), $2.50; received for use of bundles, $337.50; cost of replenishing and sterilizing, $183. Mrs. Tingey receives for care of bundles $25 per month. Grateful acknowledgement has been given by the Center to the doctors, dentists


and school nurse for the valiant service they have rendered; and to the original committee of ladies who have been on duty, without fail, at every clinic from the first organization. On March 19, a clinic was held in Mantua, where 24 children were examined. The Health Center cooperated with the Public Schools in putting over a 100 per cent "sound teeth" combat; the Health Center paying the expenses of 50 children.
Idaho Falls Stake. A very successful teachers' convention was recently held in this stake. The morning meeting was given over to the program outlined by the General Board, with a demonstration of a real visit to a home and a discussion on the topic by the mother and the teachers, also the topic, How to Prepare a Lesson. There were present 100% of the Stake board, 100% of the ward presidents, and 60% of other officers and teachers. A choir of 50 voices made up of choruses from seven of the wards furnished the music. At noon a luncheon was served. This was interspersed with a number of very clever toasts. The afternoon session was devoted to a mixed program of readings, solos, and chorus selections, and a dramatization of the story Angels of Mercy, from the Relief Society Magazine. A prize was offered to the ward having the best per cent of ward teaching. This was won by Idaho Falls Second ward, with 95?%. Mrs. Anna Fox, the very able president, was presented with a small token and a picture for the Relief Society room. There were present five teachers who had been members of the Relief Society for over fifty years. Flowers were given as tokens of appreciation. There were seventeen mothers present who had borne twelve or more children. Two of these are ward presidents at this time. These were showered with carnations. The youngest teacher was a matron of twenty years. She also was among the honored. One woman had been in service as ward teacher for forty-three years. This woman was also favored.
Juarez Stake. The slogan in Juarez stake is, "Every sister a member of the Relief Society." As a result some of the associations have a 100% record in membership. All of the branches are actively interested in the work of the organization, and are faithfully carrying it forward.
Blackfoot Stake. Early in the Summer the Blackfoot stake Relief Society
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 527
presented the cantata The Garden of Flowers, and the pageant Dispensations of the Gospel. The entertainment was given in the tabernacle, at Blackfoot, and was attended by over 1,200 people. Much praise was given to Mrs. Sarah Carruth and her assistants for the excellent production. On July 18, the Blackfoot stake Society was reorganized. On account of change of residence Mrs. Sarah Carruth resigned her position as president, and was honorably released, with deep appreciation for her excellent and willing service. Mrs. Flora H. Johnson was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Carruth.
South Sevier Stake. Under the supervision of the stake recreation committee, and on a circuit which was conducted by them, the stake Relief Society held a social recently which was greatly enjoyed by both old and young from different parts of the stake. On the 5th day of May, in honor of Bathsheba W. Smith and cooperating with the Stake Genealogical Society, a very successful temple excursion was conducted, and ordinance work performed for 124. The stake Relief Society conference was held June 20, at Joseph ward. There was a very good representation from each ward, with the stake presidency also in attendance at both sessions. The following subjects were discussed: The privilege of motherhood; Honoring and obeying the laws of the land; The most effectual ways to establish the laws of God. Musical numbers and readings were also given. The Relief Society annual outing was held August 5, at Shady Dale Park. Luncheon was served the early part of the evening and a short, snappy program was given after which dancing was enjoyed by all present.