Money Spending and its Effect on Character
By Effie Warnick, Brigham Young University
The home has always been the scene of the many activities that deal with the satisfaction of mankind's most intimate and vital needs. In every form of these home activities management functions and is one characteristic that is absolutely indispensable to the fulfilment of a happy and worthy home life. Changes wrought by industrial developments, by social progress, and by the changing ideals of mankind all have had their effect in modifying forms of home activity. In the process of adaption to these numerous and complicated influences many home activities have been eliminated and others have been added. At one period, within the memory of most of us, the housewife was spinner, weaver, dressmaker, tailor, candle and soap maker, cook, laundress, nurse, miller, baker, and performed other important functions too numerous to mention. Modern industry has to a large degree removed the more complicated manufacturing tasks, and labor saving devices have relieved the home of its most arduous toil. But modern life has relieved the home of these activities only to emphasize others. Today two of these phases of home life that are kept constantly before the public as being essential and necessary to the preservation of the home, and which call forth a very highly developed form of managerial ability on the part of the homemaker, are "Family Finance" and "Child Care." Scarcely a modern magazine is found today that does not treat voluminously on these subjects; they are a favorite theme of the modern fiction writer; volumes are written on them by economists, sociologists, and other scientists; societies have been founded for the promotion of child welfare; and educational institutions, banks and business organizations throughout the country are adding the budget expert and the housewife's adviser to their staff of workers. And why this public concern about the housewife's business? Has she failed to measure up to the best standards in these newer fields of Home Management? Dr. Louise Stanley, Chief of the National Bureau of Home Economics, in her talk on What Better Homes Need found that there are five things lacking that are particularly needed for better homes. These are: 1. Lack of honesty. 2. Lack of business method.


3. Lack of home ownership. 4. Lack of family responsibility. 5. Lack of simplicity. In a recent number of the Ladies' Home Journal an illustrated article discussed the dangers of the "Sea of Matrimony" and what was necessary on the part of the sailors in order that they might safely reach the "Harbor of Domestic Tranquility." The "Reef of Family Finance" was one of the dangerous obstacles that must be safely passed. These are but two illustrations, other diagnosticians may voice other conclusions; but in analyzing Dr. Stanley's "five lacks" they seem to be quite synonymous with the questions "Spending the Family Income" and "The Training and Care of Children" for in all government documents the term Family means husband, wife and children. Money is directly related to all of the home activities, and influences the character of the family members as it governs family standards. The earning of money in sufficient amounts and in an honorable way calls for mental, social, and physical development of the highest type. Honesty, generosity, self-denial, justice, kindness, judgment, foresightedness, thrift, and in fact, all the virtues, are developed through one's efforts to spend the income wisely. Mrs. Abel in her book Successful Family Life, says "The right use of money is an essential part of honesty, whose cultivation is by no means unnecessary in the modern family. Courage, the high-heart, liberty of spirit, are not to be attained by people who are habitually in debt, who grasp at joys they have no money to pay for. A life of subterfuge and dodging in money matters is often seen to undermine the moral nature, and perhaps nothing so hardens the heart and dulls the conscience as does the habit of living beyond one's income. "'The world owes you a living.' 'One must live up to one's standards,' are mischievous phrases founded in dishonesty and false pride. There is nothing on the other hand, that gives such dignity to individual and family life as a determination to keep solvent and to gather even a small surplus for emergencies." Modern social conditions seem to have decreed that woman's is the responsibility of spending wisely the family income and hers is the responsibility of developing the character of her children through its right use. "The importance of the managing and buying functions lies the housewife is very great. Probably 90 per cent of the family money goes through her hands and what she buys has a definite relation to what is produced in factories and also to family standards." The satisfactions and comforts of home life depend on her
MONEY SPENDING 505
ability to transform family income into useful and desirable home commodities. If the housewife has not yet learned the art of buying (and it is quite evident that the average housewife has not) to the satisfaction of the family members and the general public, what is the cause? First and foremost: Spending of money is a new field of activity for men and women alike. The time is not far distant when barter was the method of exchange and money a substance to be hoarded carefully for the "rainy day." This was the time when friend husband, carried the purse and brought from the market the few things necessary to be obtained outside the home. Then came the time when economic conditions and, perhaps, the pleasure of intensive business, professional, and industrial pursuit, led the man to devote his energies to the various forms of money making, frequently away from home. The wife was left more and more with home responsibilities and buying for the home became more and more her province. Now women share equally with men in privileges of the money making activities and a great incentive to them in following these lines of endeavor is expressed by the phrase "My own money." Facing these new conditions, which have developed so rapidly, women are often at a loss as to which course to pursue. They stand at the crossroads, torn by conflicts between needs and desires, too frequently totally unprepared for the new field of home management that has thus been thrust upon them. The alluring appeal of the modern advertisement, the complications of the modern manufacturing industries, the desire to "keep up with Lizzie," all add to her bewilderment. Mrs. Abel says, "It must be freely admitted that the perfect management of an income of any size is an achievement; it is, in fact, the expression of a highly disciplined life." And how is this form of achievement and this condition of discipline to be gained by the modern housewife, the spender of today, and of the future? Must the future housewife, as the present and the past, have no other than the trial and error method, or, is there a more satisfactory alternative to be found? I agree with many writers that there is, and that this alternative is found in the training of children, boys and girls alike, in the right use of money by means of what Mrs. Abel calls the "children's allowance." She says: "Perhaps of all forms of outlay none so intimately affects personal development as does the money allowance to the children. By this system something quite different is meant than what is known as 'spending money' or the individual savings bank accounts made for the child by parents and friends." Neither investments


made for them, nor spending money given at random is in the nature of the allowance, which is a definite sum paid regularly with the understanding that it is to cover certain necessary items, as school supplies, carfare, clothing, the amount being according to the means of the parents and the age and judgment of the child, in addition to a small proportion for spending money proper. It is understood, of course, that most of the allowance will be spent under advice and direction, for this family cannot afford actual money waste, but as time goes on an increasing responsibility is placed on the child since the object is wholly educational." No greater mistake is made and no greater opportunity for character development in children is lost, than for parents of limited means to make all decisions as to money matters and to do all the buying on the plea that the income allows too slight a margin for mistakes. But before they realize it, responsibility has passed into the hands of the children who are earning their own money and making their decision without the training which comes only by partial success and failures during their maturing years." The following stories illustrate the too frequent results of no training. A young engaged couple sat on the sofa together. He said, "Darling, I have just had a raise in my salary. They are going to give me $1500 a year hereafter. Do you think we could begin to think of getting married sometime now?" "Why, of course," answered the fair young girl. "Let us be married at once. If I am careful I can get all my clothes for $1000 a year; then we shall have the rest for other expenses." A young bride came to her mother in great distress saying that she had just had to spend a whole dollar for postage stamps. "Why, naturally," said her mother. "You needed them, did you not?" "Yes, certainly," wailed the bride. "But I didn't know you had to buy them. I thought they just came. Father always seemed to have plenty in his desk." "Young American women, as a rule, know far too little about the value of money. The custom so often is to buy what they want and send the bill to father or husband." Miss Buck—The American Girl. In adopting the method of "The Children's Allowances" precautions must be taken and common sense used. This is expressed by Taber in the Business of the Household: "Do not make allowances to children for which they are not held carefully accountable. Teach them how to keep an expense account and how to buy. Teach them also how to save and as soon as they have accumulated enough, introduce them to the mysteries of a bank account. They may be encouraged to save by a promise of a certain sum, say fifty cents for every dollar which they put in the bank." "Children should be taught four things in relation to money:
MONEY SPENDING 507
(a) How to earn and receive; (b) how to spend; (c) how to save; (d) how to give." "Work of a cooperative nature, to which every member of the family is supposed to contribute, should not be paid for when done by children, but if the child can do work that otherwise might require hired help to do, compensation may be allowed. Small undertaking should be encouraged." "Children should be taught early to buy their own small necessities and as they grow older, their own clothing. By assisting in the family marketing they may gain a sense of values and be taught to market intelligently." "Perhaps simple problems in investments may be explained and put in operation from time to time. The opening of a savings bank account should be one of the first steps along this line." "Intelligent giving through church, Sunday School, and young people's organizations may be the first step in teaching how to give. Individual cases of misfortune and poverty, public appeals for assistance in calamities, should perhaps be brought to the attention of the young people in such a way that they will feel the first promptings of a responsibility that will lead them to part with a portion of their savings in order to help others." When Dr. George J. Fischer, Deputy Chief Scout Executive of the Boy Scouts of America was in Provo recently, he told the story of one way in which John D. Rockefeller developed a right attitude toward money in his sons. When they were youngsters he gave them each 30c a week, 10c they were to save, 10c they were to give away, and 10c they were to spend as they wished. He believed that every individual should learn to earn, to save, to give and to spend. The results of these methods were shown in a story he told of these boys when they were older. They were at their summer home at the seaside. With some other boys, they were watching a beautiful private yacht anchored in the bay. They were discussing the pleasure they would receive if it were theirs, and one of the boys remarked to the Rockefeller chaps, "Why don't you get your father to buy you one?" "You must think we're Vanderbilts," was their reply without a trace of envy. Miss Agnes Tilson of Purdue University, says, "An allowance that is spent for the child is absolutely valueless. A mother may say with pride, 'I give my boy 25c a week. I require him to give 5c to the Sunday School, 5c to his Xmas fund, 5c to his Boy Scout dues, 5c must go into his bank, and he has 5c to spend.' Poor lad! He has no sense of ownership or responsibility until he comes to his last nickle. It is easy to have a prophetic vision of the way that boy will spend money later on. Encourage the child to talk over his allowance with you. Make your suggestions so that he thinks he is planning his expenditures himself." When shall the child's allowance begin and how long should


it continue? In talking on this subject with fathers and mothers I have had many report to me that they were using this method with their son Bob, or daughter Elsie, and were enthusiastic with the result and the progress they were making. But in my experience as a teacher of girls in High School and College, I have failed to find one girl who reports having a real allowance. Many report getting money from home for their expenses, but if it isn't enough, they write for more. Few keep accounts of any kind except as a class project, and no discussion of their spending between themselves and parents seems to take place. One young married woman reported that she had planned how she should spend her money during the year—so much for every month—but she got married and didn't have to worry about money. All in all my investigations show a deplorable lack of money appreciation among our college girls. Some earn their own way but spend as they earn with seasons of plenty and seasons of famine. Most authorities believe that children of 4 and 5 or 6 years are not too young to begin to handle an allowance. Of course, the beginning allowance is very small and the budget very simple. "One mother started her children when 4 years old with 5 pennies a week with instructions to give, to save, and to spend from the week's allowance." "Mrs. Abel says, "A child of five who is, perhaps, in the Kindergarten, has already begun to know that money buys things. Let the allowance start we will say, with 10c a week, and the education in its use begin at the same time. If there is not leisure to work out this educational plan, better delay giving the allowance until it is ready. As the dog trainer said, 'This puppy ought to begin its lessons, but I shall have to let it run wild a few weeks longer until my head man comes back. This is a valuable dog and I do not want to risk a mistake.' "For this boy of five, by one method which has been successful, a box is provided having five compartments, and 2c are placed in each. The child is still too young for the written account. One compartment holds spending money, the second is for somebody else and represents his giving, the third may be called education typified as yet by a box of wax crayons, the fourth is for entertainment or for fun, the fifth is for savings." As the child grows older, the allowance is increased. The headings may be somewhat changed and he may have the responsibility of a wider range of buying. "By the time the child is 10 years old the allowance has been increased and the proportions have changed. The clothing allowance will soon be in the young person's hands and some training in that department of spending must be gradually acquired. If carefully persisted in, it seems probable that the education of the boy and girl as to money spending will have reached definite
MONEY SPENDING 509
results by the time they are fifteen, but this by no means indicates that their education should be discontinued. It means that more and more they should be allowed to enlarge the field of spending their own allowance with the necessary cooperation of the mother. Habits of saving should by this time be developed, and helping others should give pleasure." There are, of course, two sides to every question and very possibly your minds have centered on what seems a serious objection, or some illustration of failure to develop good habits of using money after trying the allowance system comes to mind. But I am sure that the seriousness and vastness of the money side of home life appeals to you all and that you, with me, recognize the fact that something must be done to prepare our boys and girls to assume this responsibility successfully and happily. Going back to Dr. Stanley's "five lacks." How can a young man or young woman be honest if they are ignorant of money values and their wants have never known control? How can business methods be found in the home when the partners of this home have had no training in the application of the fundamental business principles? How can there, in the pinch of economic life be home ownership if young people have never been taught the beauty and harmony of home life and have never formed the habit of saving for future needs? How can there be a willingness for family responsibility if boys and girls alike are deprived the privilege of sharing home responsibilities and solving home problems, growing up irresponsible and care-free? How can there be simplicity in home life when there is no analysis of the significance of home activities, no weighing of needs and desires, and ideals of family life are overshadowed by our endeavors to outdo our neighbors and friends? To my mind, all of these lacks can be almost wholly overcome and the home partnership materially strengthened, when the husband and wife are able to solve justly and fairly the money problem of the home and I plead for a fair deal for the girls and boys of today—the spenders of the future.
Poetry
By