Ours
The Relief Society has taken quilt-making out of the realm of the practical into the realm of fine arts. In the sense, of course, that embroidery, and all fine needlework may be classed as a fine art. To be sure, not all the quilts made by this organization are works of art; they are not all intended to be, but when it is necessary there are groups of women all over the Church who can make quilts that are works of art. Last winter Mrs. Lacy H. Thompson, president of the Provo Fifth ward, was visiting in California. There she met an old friend, Mrs. Compson, mother of the well-known film star, Betty Compson. When Mrs. Thompson told her friend that she was working in the Relief Society she immediately asked, "Does the Relief Society make the pretty quilts it used to make?" Mrs. Thompson replied, "We do," at which Mrs. Compson told her that she was building a new home and that she would like two of the Relief Society quilts for this home. As a result, Mrs. Thompson and her helpers purchased
EDITORIAL 511
some English broadcloth of delicate shades, and the quilts were made. It was our good fortune to see these quilts and we assure our readers that they are choice in color, beautiful in design, and skilled in workmanship. One of these quilts is of lavender and yellow, a nine-patch, quilted in squares so that the little blocks stand out in alternate lavender and yellow puffs. The other quilt is green and pink. The center is plain, with a double border of green and pink. The quilting is a flower design. Recently we were in the Bear River stake and witnessed the exhibition of the work done in that stake in the work and business meeting. Among the quilts that had been made by the sisters of that stake were two quilts made by the Hawaiian Relief Society sisters and brought home by Elder King, a missionary. They are truly marvelous in design, suggesting Oriental art. It is axiomatic of art that it draws many of its designs from nature reflecting its environment. One of these quilts has a white background; covering it is a blue octopus. Any one acquainted with this many-legged inhabitant of the water can readily discern that the designer had this sea urchin in mind. It is of surpassing beauty, a masterpiece in quilt-making. The other quilt depicts a tree with branches reaching in all directions, symbolizing the Tree of Life to the Hawaiians. We are exceedingly proud of the beautiful quilts made by the Relief Society. Such quilts find a ready market at a high price. They are justly the pride of our mothers and grandmothers, and everywhere brides look forward to including one or more of them in their wedding trousseau.