Living to Enjoy the Blessings of the Lord President George Albert Smith (Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1948). Could witness this picture as I see it. In no other place can it be seen but here, not only to see but to feel the influence of the Lord that pervades this building. I am looking into the faces of women from many parts of this country, and some from other lands, every one is a daughter of our Father in heaven. Is it not worth something to know that? Is there anything else that you can think of that would give you more satisfaction than to know that you are a child of our Father in heaven, and that he has given you the opportunity to live on the earth at this period of time when the gospel has been restored? 'That was only 118 years ago. That does not mean very much in the long period of time in the world's history, but think what has been accomplished in that time. How marvelous are the changes. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was born, he came into a humble home, a humble father and mother, but they were real Christians. His mother loved the truth and she loved her children. So Joseph, when he was just a boy, had the guidance of one of our Father's choicest daughters. I wonder sometimes as I travel throughout the country and see the hundreds of thousands of people Page 796 I wish everybody in the world scattered everywhere, how many of them there are that realize that they are the children of the Lord. He is the Father of our spirits. And how wonderful it is to live in this day and age of the world among a group of people who know that fact.

We are in this great building that was erected during the poverty of the people. They did not have steel to use as we have today. They did not have the electric lights. There are many things that we enjoy today that they did not have, but they built the greatest Tabernacle, the greatest house of worship in many respects, that has been built since the world began, and we are permitted to worship here.

Think of it, sisters. We have no way of measuring the blessings of the Lord unless we live so that we can enjoy them. We have been told here today that there are certain requirements that we must observe if we are to enjoy all that we should enjoy. And by the way, I believe I would like to turn here to one of the early books of the Bible and read to you what the Lord said, not in the beginning of time, but in the beginning of the peopling of this earth, when there were comparatively few on the earth. People did not know a lot of things that they know now. They did not understand the purpose of many things, but the Lord in his mercy began in the very beginning to give the people advice, his advice. He was not guessing about it because he knew.

Sometimes we give advice and I fear we just guess about it, but I am thinking now of the condition of the world after nearly six thousand years that the people have lived upon it, and the sorrow and distress and anxiety that exist. There never has been a time in the world when people knew as much as they know now. There has never been a time when there were as many comforts enjoyed by the people. It is marvelous what has been coming into the world all this time, and yet I think I am safe in saying that the majority of all the Lord's children who have lived upon the earth have fallen short of being what he wanted them to be.

But there was no justification for not following his advice and benefiting thereby because they had his commandments from the beginning. The Ten Commandments Let us consider for a moment some of the Ten Commandments. "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." Why should we? The Lord did not say we may not, but he said we shall not choose who is God, and there is no other god that can take his place. He is our Father. He has been the Father of all the people that have lived upon the earth, the Father of their spirits.

All of us have that wonderful blessing that we trace ourselves back to our Heavenly Father. And then he says: "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, 797 or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth: Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them." In other words, anything that we may propose, other than our Heavenly Father; we may call it what we will, but it does not become God and we may worship it, but we will not be benefited by doing so. And he says: "I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me." Not only does the sorrow come to the individual in the first generation of those who hate him, but he says that it passes on to the third and fourth generation. How foolish we are, then, not to pay attention to him who is the Father of us all and who loves us and is anxious that every one of us should enjoy the kingdom of heaven, and how foolish we are if we listen to the suggestions and intimations and counsel of those who are not of God and who do not know what he knows.

Now he says further: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." Think of the profanity that is in the world today, the carelessness with which the name of our Heavenly Father is used, and yet the Lord warned our fathers several thousand years ago that we were not to take his name in vain. He says further: "Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy." Why should we keep the Sabbath day holy? There are blessings that attach to us if we observe the Sabbath day and if we fail to observe it we lose our blessing, yet the majority of our Father's children who live upon this earth today, in this dispensation, do not honor the Sabbath day as our Heavenly Father has advised them to do. And what will be the result, what has been the result? The result has been the loss of many blessings. As our sister was telling us a few moments ago, we may not pay much attention to this thing, but if we expect to enjoy the blessings of our Heavenly Father, we must observe the law that governs that blessing. He has told us that.

So, today, think of the condition in the world in regard to the Sabbath day. It is not what the Lord has advised, but it is what people wish to do who love pleasure more than they love God.
I might go on and say: "For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it."
Just think what a wonderful world this would be if one day in seven all of our Father's children, your brothers and sisters and mine, would keep the Sabbath day holy. The power that would come into the lives of the human family cannot be measured or estimated. It would be marvelous what a change would occur in this world, because, not only would they enjoy the result of honoring the Sabbath day, they would close to our Heavenly Father on his holy day, but their minds would be expanded to think of righteousness on the other days, and
the world would be a different world in which to live.

Now he says: "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee."
There is a promise. What a wonderful thing it is to feel that we have lived, if we have, honoring father and mother, to be entitled to have our days prolonged. That does not seem a very difficult thing for us to do, to give honor and consideration and kindness and love to those who were the means of bringing us into the world. Surely it ought to be the simplest and easiest thing in all the world, and yet, I am afraid that even among our people, there are men and women who ignore that wonderful piece of advice, to honour father and mother, and in dishonoring them or failing to recognize them as they should, the blessings that they would desire and they might enjoy pass by them.

The Lord says: "Thou shalt not kill." In other words, thou shalt not take life. Just think of what that means, and think of today. You take your daily papers and pick them up and read the headlines and see in all parts of the world where the messages have come from, how many people are losing their lives because of the selfishness of somebody else who is anxious to enjoy and take from them what they have.

Now the Lord says: "Thou shalt not commit adultery."
I wonder if we realize what a terrible thing it is to violate that advice of Heaven's Father. Many people have an idea that it brings to them pleasure and satisfaction, and yet it brings to them sorrow and sickness and death. The Lord has warned us, long, long ago, and yet the world today is in the condition that it is in, very largely because our Father's other children, his sons and daughters, will not pay attention to his advice and counsel and the result is unhappiness—death to hundreds and thousands of people in this world who ought to be filled with happiness and satisfaction all the time.

Now: "Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour."
I wonder if we realize that if we tell a story about our neighbor, if we refer to our neighbor, if we say something to injure him, not telling the truth, that we violate one of the loving counsels of the Father of us all. He said we should not do that, and if we do, we do not gain anything, we always lose.

Now he says: "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's."
In other words, we should not be selfish and try to obtain and take from others that which belongs to them.

I have just been reading to you some of the paragraphs of advice of your Father and mine. I have just been calling your attention to the fact that this I have read to you today has been in print for thousands of years. People all over the world do not have the Bible as we have it, but they have access to it in most parts of the world, and among all the wonderful things that are contained in this marvelous record that I hold in my hand, I have just read about ten simple things,
counsels of our Heavenly Father, that, and this I want you to remember, that if we observe, if the people of the world observe these commandments there would be no war, there would be no hatred, there would be no sorrow, compared to what we have in the world today, and the ten counsels of our Heavenly Father who knoweth all things, and we have had it all the way down through the ages, and the result is that because we have failed to pay attention to it, this world is in the condition it now is in, and you do not know, nobody knows, how soon another world war may be started, and if we have another, how much more serious it will be than anything else we have ever had.

Well now, in the days of the Savior, at least in the days of John the Revelator, he heard a voice and that voice said: "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues."
That was the voice from heaven that came to him. Do you know that is why you are here today.

Do you know that is why your forebears left the world, that it was because God had advised his people to gather out from Babylon, gather out from the evils that have afflicted mankind for so long, and come to the tops of these everlasting mountains. When we came here they were so barren and forbidding and desolate that some of those who were in the first company wept when President Young said: "This is the place."
But you sit in this place, and you may go from one end of the world to the other and you will find no other part of the world that is as blessed as has been the part that has been inhabited by the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, not because they were all perfect, but there were enough of them who have kept the commandments of God, that we have been enabled to go on and on and on, and so today you meet in the most remarkable house of worship in the world; you listen to one of the greatest and most wonderful organs; you have listened today to a marvelous choir of sisters. And I might go on and on. And then you go outside of the building and you stand upon one of the most delightful spots that you can find anywhere. These buildings upon this block have not been erected selfishly. They have been built that we might learn the very Ten Commandments that I have been reading to his children.
I did not know I was going to read the Ten Commandments when I stood up here, but I think probably it is profitable to do; we will just think about them, and when we realize that if the people of the world had been keeping the Ten Commandments as I have read them to you today—only a part—I only read just a part—we would not be in the condition we are today, and we would be a much further advanced in all the sciences and the blessings that our Heavenly Father has in store for his children and have not yet come to us.
Blessings of Relief Society
Brethren and sisters, I congratulate the brethren, and I particularly congratulate the sisters that belong to the great Relief Society organization of the Church. There is not any other organization like it, when I realize what you have been doing in the last year or two, gathering means that you might have a doing of your own, that you might worship in if you desire to worship there, that you might transact your business in, a building that you can invite your sisters from all parts of the world to come to and share with you the blessings of our Heavenly Father that have been so richly bestowed upon you.
There are no women in the world blessed as you have been blessed. There are occasionally women who have been marvelously blessed, but when it comes to a community, I know of no other place where women have been blessed as you have been in the communities in which you live.
And so I am happy to be here and so I am today, congratulate you that you are looking forward now to having a building of your own. I think that when that time comes, as possibly it is not very far away, and you are today, I think you will be. And it is not very far away. You have gone out and in a short time have made contributions for the amount that insures a building. Now, you were satisfied with the small building over here that cost a few thousand dollars, eight thousand dollars was the amount the Relief Society put into that building, as I remember it now. How would you like to take that building now and surrender five hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars? You would not think you had made a very good trade, and yet you have
(Continued on page 833)