The Annual General Relief Society Conference September 29 and 30, 1948.
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer

THE annual general Relief Society conference for 1948 was held Wednesday and Thursday, September 29 and 30, at Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Belle S. Spafford presiding. A historic feature of the 1948 conference was the announcement at the Thursday morning session in the Tabernacle of the successful completion of fund-raising for a Relief Society building. The conference opened Wednesday morning with an officers meeting in the Assembly Hall which was almost filled to capacity with stake and mission officers. Elder G. Homer Durham, speaking in place of Elder Mark E. Petersen who was unable to attend, gave an address on "Home, the Cradle of Liberty." The annual report and official instructions were presented by President Belle S. Spafford. Margaret F. Richards, President of the Stadium Village Relief Society, Emigration Stake, spoke on "A Young Mother Discovers Relief Society," and Secretary Pickering discussed "Stake Board Functions." Roll call showed 171 stakes and 19 missions reporting, Oahu being the only stake unrepresented. All mission Relief Society presidents from the United States, Canada, and Mexico, who had been specially invited by the First Presidency to attend the conference, were present. Wednesday Page 802 afternoon, departmental meetings, all well attended, were held from 1:00 to 2:00 P.M. For the welfare, Magazine, and secretary-treasurers departments, and from 2:15 to 3:15 p.m.

For the educational, work, and music departments. In the evening the annual reception for visiting stake and mission officers was held in the Lafayette Ballroom at the Hotel Utah. Preceding the reception a formal presentation was held at which gifts for the new building were presented to the general board. An oil landscape painted by Samuel Jepperson, a pioneer artist, was presented by Utah Stake Relief Society; a woven tag throw rug by the Marsh Center Ward, Portneuf Stake; a handcrocheted set of tidies made and presented as a personal gift by Lavaughn Fowler, president of the Inkom Ward Relief Society, Pocatello Stake. The gifts were displayed during the reception.

The general session in the Tabernacle Thursday morning was devoted to recognition of the Building Fund achievement and was conducted by Counselor Marianne C., Sharp, chairman of the Building Fund committee. A recorded dramatization, "The Symbol of a Dream," written by Verda Mae Fuller, under direction of Mary G. Judd, gave the historical highlights of The ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE long-cherished desire of Relief Society women for a building. A portion of the dramatization consisted of reproductions of the voices of early leaders and Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, and the actual voices of President George Albert Smith, President Spafford, and Counselor Sharp. This was recorded before the meeting and broadcast into the Tabernacle during the meeting.

A large replica of the building was placed across the center section of the organ. Windows in the replica were made to light up, one by one, as each group of stakes was given recognition, and the door was illuminated when the missions were recognized. This part of the program was entitled "From the Shadow of a Dream to the Sunlight of Promise," and was written by Vesta P. Crawford under the direction of Priscilla L. Evans and read by Sister Evans.

President Belle S. Spafford, addressing the meeting on "Joy In Full Measure," expressed gratitude to the women of the Church that, through their untiring efforts and devotion, the goal had been reached in one year. In an address entitled "And What of the Promise?" Counselor Marianne C. Sharp summarized the Building Fund project and reported the receipt of $554,016 to date. Bishop LeGrand Richards commended the organization for its support of Church activities in 1933 and congratulated it on achieving the Building Fund quota.

The general session Thursday afternoon was conducted by President Spafford and featured an address by President George Albert Smith, in which he called attention to the unique place in the world held by Relief Society and complimented the women on their devotion to the cause they serve. Counselor Velma N. Simonsen spoke on "Our Responsibility to Inactive Members," and Blanche B. Stoddard on "A Measuring Rod for Growth." The conference was concluded with an address by President Spafford.

Music for the sessions on Thursday was furnished by a combined chorus of 450 Singing Mothers from the stakes of the Salt Lake region, directed by Florence J. Madsen, with Elder Frank W. Asper at the organ. A special feature of the music program Thursday morning was the rendition by the chorus of "Build, Thou, for Life's Immortal Goal," composed specially for the occasion by Sister Madsen. This Singing Mothers chorus, which sang at both Thursday sessions, also sang the following day at the first two sessions of the semi-annual general conference of the Church.

At the Wednesday morning officers meeting, Dorothy Kimball Keddington sang "The Flag Without a Stain," and Beverly B. Glauser played appropriate prelude and postlude numbers on the organ.

The conference addresses "Joy in Full Measure," by President Belle S. Spafford and "And What of the Promise?" by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp were published in the November issue of the Magazine, and President Smith's address "