Lean Your Ear This Way"

Iris W. Schow

ADELE Marlowe was not conscious of it, as she hurried purposefully from the elevator to the street, but the mechanically distorted Christmas carol, the fat, gleaming bows hanging from the holly wreaths, and the jostlings of the shoppers were all in harmony with her mood of overwhelming exultation and well-being. The air was less crisp than it had been when she went in, and a few large snowflakes were descending reluctantly. A newly changed record blared out discordantly from the loudspeaker above the First Bank. It was softened abruptly, so that the chimes fell on the ear gently and separately, Adele thought, as if an angel picked out the tune with one finger, note by note, on little silver bells.

"Adeste Fideles" this was as far as she could get without the aid of English— "joyful and triumphant."

"Joyful and triumphant," that was it precisely. For, now that Dr. Copeland had assured her that she was justified in harboring her wonderful hope, she would hurry to tell Roy about it. She would go right into Freem's and interrupt him at his work, even if it wasn't a critical emergency. After all, she never had gone into the store to see Roy, although he had worked there for almost two months. Roy didn't believe in mixing domesticity with business. That wasn't the way to get ahead. Well, neither did she, but this was different. She was so keyed up that she couldn't go home and wait until he came out on the seven-thirty bus. That would take too long. Merely walking to Freem's was taking almost too long.

The glow in Adele's eyes, coupled with the suggestion of a smile that lifted the corners of her generous mouth, compelled answering smiles from the women she passed. A soprano's recorded singing filled the streets now, and the words seeped into Adele's consciousness: The hopes and fears of all the years Are met in thee to-night....

HOW they had hoped for a really good position for Roy, during these early years of their marriage! It had come at last—assistant manager at Freem's, exactly the opening he had wanted ever since he had finished college, the very position where his excellent training in business would assure his advancement, and the murmur in his heart would hinder him as little as possible. And now their other hope, dearer still....

A school group had begun singing over the speaking system: Ho! Ho! Hol! Who wouldn't go? Who wouldn't go, indeed?

The gleam in Adele's eyes softened. In six years from now—no, seven—what sort of little lad or girl might be up there caroling with the others? This day really was too wonderful!

Adele pulled open the door and entered Freem's Department Store. She would ask the first clerk she saw where to find Mr. Marlowe. "LEAN Your EAR THIS WAY"

Anyone who worked there would know the new assistant manager.

The department store Santa had paused in his descent of the broad stairway to wave to the small girl and boy who bounced expectantly at the foot, flanked by a pair of amused parents.

As she approached, Adele watched Santa Claus wave exaggeratedly, then descend slowly. He created a grand illusion of genuine old age when he eased himself down on a lower step and seated a child on each knee. The girl's great blue eyes and small white teeth sparkled vivaciously, while domestic prattle about "a real little stove and some very tiny kettles and pans" rushed from her lips. The little boy waited gravely, as becomes an oldish child, but his dark eyes burned with an eagerness which his silence could not discount. Just so, in three or four years, Adele's child would pour out its impatient hopes. That would be a special moment for her, for the child, and even for Santa, no doubt; for then Roy might even be the manager. Adele pictured herself, really tastefully turned out, indulgently hovering close by, admired and idealized by every employee in the store.

She almost sprinted up the stairs, moved briskly through the latest in "Everything to Beautify the Home," and arrived at the little office window, breathing rapidly.
"I'd like to speak to Mr. Roy Marlowe," she told the girl who appeared at the window.
"I'm sorry," said the girl, in the tone and manner of a telephone operator giving one the time of day. "Mr. Marlowe is no longer with us."
Adele turned away. The great thing was not to show how much and intimately it mattered, to look as if she might be Roy's second cousin's sister-in-law from Washington County, dropping in to say, "Hello."

How long had Roy been "no longer with them" at Freen's? Why? Where was he spending the time from nine A.M. until six-thirty P.M. each day? If he had quit his job to accept a better one, he would have told her. What was he doing right now? Hunting desperately for another good job, she supposed.

She was back downstairs now, approaching the door. There sat Santa Claus still in the great armchair, chuckling and nodding, while another pair of doting parents heard their little dove make her Christmas requests. What a spectacle for a grown man to have to make of himself in order to gain a livelihood!

"And a dollie, and a dollie bed, and a buggy . . ." That blue-eyed little girl on his lap was enumerating everything she had ever seen or heard of.
Adele hastened on toward the door. There would be some relief in getting outside again, in spite of the falling snow, if only the crowd didn't mill about so. She must get herself in hand. Even though she had just been toppled over by a stunning blow, she reminded herself there was no excuse for lashing out at the whole human scene, including Santa Claus and innocent childhood.

Although she had not exactly decided to go there, Adele was hurrying toward the employment agency. It was not the loss of Roy's position that was so upsetting. It was not knowing what Roy was going through, how he was spending his days, and how long or deeply he had been worrying. She had been too busy with her own hopes lately, or he never could have kept up a bluff before her. Not with that frank, trustworthy expression of his!

Waiting for the traffic light to change, Adele brushed diligently at the film of snow on the shoulders of her trim brown coat, unmindful that she still had nearly a block to go. Well, one thing was certain, she decided. It was not through any fault of his own that Roy had lost that job. He always got along well with others. Why, his air of willingness to please was the first striking characteristic that she had noticed about him. It was almost as obvious as his busy way of smoothing back his hair with one hand, in an attempt to appear at ease, whenever he felt self-conscious.

The corners of Adele's mouth curved upward momentarily, as she moved forward with the stream of pedestrians. Activity was at a surprisingly low ebb at the employment agency. Adele had the almost instantaneous attention of a shrewdly efficient young woman, who asked crisply, "May I help you?"

"Want—that is, I came to—I was just looking for someone, thank you."

Adele turned and left swiftly. Whatever had she gone blundering in there for? She certainly didn't intend to rush from place to place inquiring about her husband, as if she were hounding him down. That could only serve to make them both appear ridiculous. The best thing she could do was to go quietly home. She started for the bus stop at the corner.

Should she let Roy know how she had learned that he was no longer at Freem's, or should she wait until he told her? Should she tell him about the baby now? Probably not. It would only add to his burdens—make everything harder for him, and he must be nearly wild with worry now. But wouldn't he be able to tell that she knew about the job, the minute he saw her face?

Were they going to keep that nerve-jangling music grinding out all day? "Silent Night..."

If only there could be a little silence, maybe she could think at least one of her problems through to a sensible conclusion. No wonder she had dashed into the employment agency without any idea of what to do when she got there.

Dele could see her bus approaching when she remembered the satin comforters she had on lay-away at Stewart's for Mom and Mother Marlowe. Whatever had made her pay a deposit on anything so expensive? The minute she felt a little affluent, there she went! Well, she must get over to Stewart's right now and see if she could talk that elderly Mrs. Lee, the saleswoman who seemed to like her, into letting her apply the 'deposit on some other purchases. Lace vanity sets would make nice Christmas gifts for their mothers, and she would be needing a lot of small things for the baby. By adding a little more money to the deposit, she could take care of Christmas and make a real start on her layette. That was, she could if they were understanding about the deposit.

It was dear and considerate of Roy to spare her the worry about his job. But actually it wasn't fair to let her run the risk of sticking out her neck even farther in the latter of paying deposits on nonessentials. Adele's limbs went sickeningly weak at the thought of how near she had come to really splurging with a down payment on the beautiful combination radio-phonograph which she knew that Roy longed to possess. What luck that she had happened to decide to think it over a little longer!

Well, the pressing need was to plan exactly what to say to make that nice little Mrs. Lee understand about the deposit. She mustn't let herself in for any more incoherent floundering. To plan ahead was what brought real results. But where was Roy spending his days? If only there were some way of knowing....

She was getting so tired. Carol after carol had beaten upon her ears. Two women approached, arm in arm, while they spoke into each other's faces. "But Aunt Millie serves so much good home cooking, I'd say a nice little pickle fork would dispose of her." They bumped Adele from their path without a glance or a break in their conversation. They didn't even need any nice little fork to dispose of me, thought Adele, struggling to maintain her footing. Though she had barely bypassed the entrance to Stewart's, she had to force her way back against the current of pedestrians.

ONCE indoors, Adele paused before the first mirror she noticed. A check-up on her appearance certainly must precede any attempt to undo her error in judgment, she decided. There was still something trim about her brown coat, considering that this was its second season. Just a little matter of brushing off a bit of snow, straightening her hat, tucking back a tendril of hair, and placing a judicious dash of powder, and she would look appealing enough. That is, she would if she could suppress that worried expression.

Stewart's evidently provided their own musical atmosphere. Somewhere a phonograph with a rather good tone was playing "Santa Claus Is Coming to Town." "Better not pout," thought Adele, starting for the elevators. She'd wait for one, if she had to. Even one flight of stairs seemed too much of a climb for her now.

Two small boys were talking with Santa this time. Poor little fellows, undoubtedly they had no suspicion of it, but this was probably the last heart-to-heart chat they would ever hold with a department store St. Nick, Adele decided from their large size. She paused to watch, lips parted with faintly smiling interest.

Hip boots for wading, of all things! A pity they didn't have their parents in tow; still, important matters had a way of getting into every conversation, in a home....

And suddenly Adele saw that Santa, giving a start, had laid a (Continued on page 832)

Left to right: Effie Yates; Mary Stevenson; Mayna Mathews; Fannie B. Terry
"Happy Grandmothers"