Christmas Presents Can Be Different
Elizabeth Williamson

Side from the personalized gifts you will select for your family and close friends this Christmas, there are two other groups you may want to consider—your neighbors, and the people who seem to have everything. Well, who can resist good food, especially if it appeals to someone's special taste and is packaged attractively? Here are some suggestions for the people who have everything:
 
Small cheeses, wrapped in bright cellophane, and attached to an evergreen branch
Packaged caviar
Spreads and relishes
Imported hors d'oeuvres
Homemade jams or jellies

If you are famous among your friends for making an unusual cake, or specializing in Christmas plum puddings, or confections, you may want to give one of these. Dates stuffed with fondant seem to be a favorite of everyone. These, wrapped in bright Christmas papers or colored tin foils, are attractive and tempting.

If your friend who has everything lives in an apartment, she will especially appreciate food. Perhaps some of your home-canned fruits, jellies, or pickles will be very welcome. You may give vegetables from your own garden, such as dried onions, potatoes, or squash.

Packaged fresh fruit, containing oranges, lemons, or grapefruit, with a liberal sprinkling of nuts, is another idea. Put these (fruits or vegetables) in large containers which can be used later. For example, use a wastepaper basket full of assorted fruit, or a magazine rack containing squash and onions. Dish drainers, lettuce drainers, or anything which appeals to your imagination can be used.

Your close neighbors very likely will have the same type of garden, grow the same vegetables, and make the same jams and jellies you do, so perhaps the food suggested above 827 will not serve as a very exciting gift for them, but don't you think freshly baked Christmas pastry, or a big crunchy breakfast cake, dotted with nuts and maraschino cherries, will appeal to them for their Christmas breakfast? Individual plum puddings, a mincemeat pie, fruitcakes, will be gratefully received. Your neighbor will be very pleased to know that you haven't forgotten her during the rush of the holiday season.