WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WO-
	MEN.

	The National Council of Women just
entering upon its fourth term starts most
auspiciously. The term of office is three
years, and the general plan of organization
and representation in the Council is as
nearly parallel to the government of the
United States as is possible in an organiza-
tion which, like the United States, is con-
stantly expanding. Its expansion, how-
ever, always rests upon the consent of the
governed. The officers for the next term
are well and carefully chosen to represent
the various sections of the country, as well
as the varying interests.
	Mrs. Fanny Humphreys Gaffney of New
York, the president, is a woman not yet
forty, but with each year recording pro-
gressive accomplishment of some line of
work. She is versatile, original, magnetic
and self-centered, not great or unusual in
any way, but with just enough altruism
and appreciation of others and their rights
or wrongs, or their abilities or disabilities,
to make her a successful leader and a satis-
factory presiding officer.

	Mrs. Maria Purdy Peck of Iowa, the vice
president, is a student of history, an author-
ity on many issues of college government,
and a woman of wide range of thought
and activity. She is well known in Iowa,
and whoever knows of her knows that the
one word to describe Mrs. Peck is to say,
‘‘She is reliable.” No higher praise can
be given any one than is conveyed in this
word, and the council is to be congratulated
on having so able a vice president.

	The recording secretary, Rev. Anna
Garlin Spencer, of Rhode Island, is a mind
so able and a delivery so forcible and ad-
mirable, that one feels convinced that who-
ever hears her must admit that this is in-
deed a stateswoman.

	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, of Washing-
ton, D. C., the corresponding secretary, is
well and widely known through her con-
nection with the Florence Crittenden Mis-
sion. Her sweet face, gracious presence
and earnestness, make her a worthy secre-
tary to the council, and her firm belief in
the idea of the council cannot fail to im-
press all who may receive a word from her
able pen.

	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, of Utah, assis-
tant recording secretary, is a pioneer in
woman's work. She is editor of a paper,

[Column 2]
has run for the Legislature and meanwhile
brought up a family. She is aunt to the
present Governor of Utah, and is highly
respected and honored by all who know
her.

	Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon, of Chicago,
the treasurer, is better known, perhaps, as
president of the National Council of Jewish
Women. Able, earnest, confident and
successful is Mrs. Solomon in all things;
and the council feels that its finances are in
wise and competent hands.

	Persons desirous of attending the Con-
gress of Women, to be held in London
commencing June 26th and lasting one week,
may be interested to learn that the Con-
gress is held under the direction of the In-
ternational Council of Women, of which
Lady Aberdeen is president.
	The tickets, which include the right to
attend all meetings and take part in discus-
sions, may be purchased for attendance at
this Congress by any woman interested.
These tickets have to be subscribed for in
advance. The price is most moderate;
$1.75 to non-affiliated club members and
$1.25 to those affiliated. To those pur-
chasing tickets early in the season, the
privileges of invitation to certain social
functions will be probably extended—such
as the reception in Stafford House, garden
party at Fulham Palace, and the lawn
party at Gunnersbury Park by Lady Roths-
child.

	Naturally the International Council is the
heart and center of all the congresses and
at its business sessions only presidents and
delegates from National Councils are pres-
ent, but visitors and all interested are
cordially welcomed at all open meetings of
the Council and the general congresses,
and a hearty invitation is extended to all
interested to attend. The privilege of dis-
cussion is open to all at most sessions and
all who are necessarily cut off from the
regular formal program of the various
meetings of the council or congress may
speak and present their cause in this way.

	Many meetings will be going on at one
and the same time in various halls, as it
would be impossible to give all a hearing
on one platform in the short period of one
week; but it is the desire of the committee
to have the Congress as representative as
possible and no one whom it is possible to
include will be shut out. Those expecting
to attend the Congress would best engage
rooms ahead, as the London season being
still on when the Congress meets, hotels
and boarding houses will naturally be in
demand.

	The Hotel Victoria and Hotel Metropole
each have single rooms from 3-6 up and
other hotels at about the same price or
cheaper. Letters addressed simply to
these hotels, London, will reach destination.
Boarding houses are numerous and prices
reasonable, as are also apartments where
rooms are hired and meals ordered extra.

	Further circulars or information may be
had by addressing the president of the
National Council, Mrs. Fannie Humphreys
Gaffney 333 west 77th street, New York,
or the corresponding secretary, Mrs. Kate
Waller Barrett, 218 Third street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.
	Among the speakers already determined

[Column 3]
upon for the International Council are:
	Miss Bates, Octavia Williams,
	Miss Anthony, Susan B.,
	Mrs. Peck, Maria Purdy,
	Miss S. American,
	Professor Bamberger,
	Mrs. Gaffney, Fannie Humphreys,
	Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
	Miss Sartain,
	Mrs. C. W. Alden, and others.
	
	There seems to be much question as to
the relation of the International Council
and the Congress of Women to be held in
London, yet the relation is most simple.
The International Council, an organized
body, holds its quinquennial or regular
fifth yearly session, as is its custom. As it
is an organized body, with regular dele-
gates and business of its own to attend to,
in order to include all women and have the
broadest possible representation of woman’s
work, it calls, while its own meeting is in
progress and under its auspices, this Con-
gress of Women, in order to widen the
range of opportunity, hearing and meeting
for all women interested in the work of
women up to date.
	The question is asked, ‘‘Are not fraternal
delegates received by the International
Council? Yes, through the medium of
this congress, which is called for all fratern-
al delegates in the widest and most hospit-
ible sense. Individuals of any national
societies affiliated with the National Coun-
cil here in the United States can be re-
ceived in the Congress by signing a blank
(forms for which can be had) stating such
desire. All that is necessary is to have
this blank also signed by the president and
secretary of the association so affiliated.
As for instance, any member of a local
suffrage league or the W. C. T. U. could
get such signature from her local president
or secretary and it would be honored, be-
cause the National Suffrage association is
affiliated with the National Council here, as
is also the W. C. T. U. There must be
forwarded with this blank the sum of $1.25.
These blanks will be furnished to appli-
cants.
	A general form of application is also
issued for the use of private individuals not
affiliated. For this $1.75 is charged.
	Organization is the keynote of the home
—the Council is the center around which
organizations revolve, each true to its.own
orbit.
	It is only by confering together in coun-
cil that the broadest, widest thought can be
reached, and the most harmonious results
in organization obtained.
	In answer to the question, “What is the
National Council?” I must ask you another
question then answer it myself.
	What constitutes the United States?—
neither territory, constitution nor people,
though each are vital and essential.
	Territory is senseless and of itself bound-
less; the Constitution is a document only,
however much it may contain or express in
sentiments or signatures; while the people
of the United States are of varying types
and degree and changing condition. The
real United States is held together and kept
a national unit by the spirit and intention
expressed in that Constitution—that spirit
being endorsed and acquiesced in daily life
by the people who submit to its rule.
Thus the United States is really a spiritual
entity held in the minds of the people.
	Now carry this thought of spiritual entity
to our Council. The strength of our Coun


[Column 1]
cil can never consist in material things nor
visible results, but in the spirit and idea
which the council upholds in its preamble:
	“We, women of the United States, sin-
cerely believe that the best good of our
homes and nation will be advanced by our
own greater unity of thought, sympathy
and purpose, and that an organized move-
ment of women will best conserve the
highest good of the family and the State,
do hereby unite ourselves in a confedera-
tion of workers committed to the over-
throw of all forms of ignorance and in-
justice, and to the application of the Golden
Rule, to society, custom and law.”
	The aim of the council is to bring to-
gether women interested in differing lines
of earnest work, that thereby breadth,
sympathy and tolerance may be brought
about, as well as a higher intelligence in
regard to the needs and common interests
of women.
	The council, as an organization, provides
a field and tournament ground where all
causes may plant their banners and main-
tain their claims for consideration.
	The herald of the council proclaims that
this council assembles publicly once in
three years to consider:
	“Whatsoever things are true, whatso-
ever things are honest, whatsoever things
are just, whatsoever things are pure, what-
soever things are lovely, whatsoever things
are of good report; if there be any virtue
and if there be any praise.” Phil. 4th
chap. 8th verse.
	It is of these things that the council
thinks.
	The council represents the highest ideal
of organized womanhood. It is the fair
court of justice, where the moral and up-
lifting forces of organization find common
hearing, balance and adjustment to the
needs of the hour.
	It knows neither bond nor free, nor
creed nor sect. It promotes no one or any
cause but such as its affiliated societies can
unite upon. Not all the causes advanced
in the council meet with the plaudits or
general consent of that body. But each
cause strikes a grand note that swells and
broadens into sound which arrests and
attunes the ear to listen for that harmony
which can only come through differing
tones centering in a common key. It is
organized to listen and learn—not to dictate
nor control.
	The organ has many pipes, yet the
music produced by it is grander and more
comprehensive than that of a single instru-
ment. An orchestra has its many instru-
ments, each player familiar with only his
own instrument, yet the result is unity and
harmony.
	The council is the woman organ or or-
chestra of influence for this century. It
seeks to unite the many differing voices
and heart cries of women into one harmon-
ous chant, which will lift the thought of
the listening world to higher, better things.
	To illustrate in detail the spirit and uni-
fying force of the council—consider again
the fact already stated that not all the
causes advanced within the council arena
meet with united favor or support, notably
the Woman’s Christian Temperance Union
and the Woman’s Suffrage Association are
potent and faithful to the council idea, but
no woman’s suffrage resolution has ever
been offered to that, body for consideration
nor has the W. C. T. U asked the dele-
gates assembled in council to endorse total
abstinence.

[Column 2]
	The National Free Baptist Woman’s
Missionary Society does not attempt to
proselyte delegates to become either mis-
sionaries or Baptists, nor does the Woman’s
Republican association of, the United States
urge that delegates all endorse the Repub-
lican party and repudiate the Democratic
principle.

	The council idea is above and beyond
little differences. It seeks for the things to
unite and overlooks the ones that divide.
The council stands ready to welcome the
Woman’s Democratic Association, if such a
one exists—and it yearns to lend its broad-
ening influence and patient ear to the anti-
suffragists, if they will come within the
fold. Each and every organization joining
has the same voice and power—two votes,
no more nor less—so no one cause can be
at the mercy of the others, since it is not
majority rule, but united effort that is the
outcome of the council.

	I am asked what are the advantages of
joining the council. If you appreciate
breadth of view with the mountains of
promise ever before you, their caps white-
topped with noble effort and crowned with
perpetual light, if you wish to rise to the
level of your highest thought and attempt
to fulfill the prayer, “Thy will be done on
earth as it is in heaven,” then there will be
no question of an individual or an associa-
tion being benefited by belonging to the
council.
	The advantage to a special organization
is that their subjects are here before a vary-
ing and more representative constituency.
Delegates and guests attending these coun-
cil gatherings come with minds attuned to
progress and open to conviction.
	In order to defray the necessary general
expenses, national organizations joining the
council pay $100 every three years, or
$33 1-3 a year. State councils pay $60 for
three years, or $20 a year, and local coun-
cils pay $24 every three years.
	Twenty national and five State and local
councils are now affiliated with the council.

	Individuals may be made life patrons
with full privileges of council except
formal ballot by paying $100 to the Coun-
cil, annual contributors pay $5 and also re-
ceive many privileges of the council.
	To be asked to become a patron of the
Council of Women is esteemed an honor,
since no name stands as patron except it
represent high purpose and character.
Patrons are not limited to women, as many
prominent men lend their means and in-
fluence to further the work of the council.


