AN APPEAL.

To the Women of Utah:
	In order to promote the international
peace measures which the Czar’s peace con-
ference at The Hague has been called to
consider, a Central Committee of prominent
women has been chosen consisting of one
woman from each country, that will join in
the movement. This has been brought
about largely through the influence and
efforts of Frau Professor Solenka of Munich,
who is the honored Chairman Lady Aber-
deen, whose name is well known in Amer-
ca, is the member of Committee from
Great Britain, and May Wright Sewall, of
Indianapolis, is the American member
from whom letters of instruction came calling
for meetings here. Later on, letters from
Munich were forwarded containing sugges-
tions and resolutions, and indicating gener-
al methods of procedure.
	It would seem by the delegation selected
by President McKinley to represent the
United States at the conference assembled
at The Hague, that the President has
considered the conference of great import-
ence. Hon. Andrew D. White, who heads
the delegation, is the ambassador from this
country to Berlin, Hon. Stanford Newel,
United States minister to Holland, in resi-
dence at The Hague. The other mem-
bers are President Seth Low, of Columbia
University; Capt. A. T. Mahan, of the
navy, (retired); Capt. Wm. Crozier, of
the army, and the Hon. Frederick William
Holls of New York, as secretary and coun-
sel. It is assuredly a very strong and dig-
nified commission, and the people of the
United States may be very justly proud of
the selections.
	The declaration of the Czar in favor of
peace, which was at first met by derision,
has now aroused sympathy from all civili-
ized nations. The more mature de-
liberation of thoughtful and intelligent peo-
ple cannot fail to see something practical in
the future, growing out of this generally
awakened sentiment, which favors peace 
and international arbitration instead of war
and bloodshed, which are, and naturally
must be, always demoralizing in their
effects upon the civilization of the world.
	In consideration of the great importance
of this subject, the women throughout this
city are most respectfully and earnestly
solicited to lend their influence, and also to
take an active part in a public demonstra-
tion on the evening of May fifteenth, in the
interest of the peace movement now being
agitated throughout the civilized world.
Meetings are to be held simultaneously in
all the larger towns and cities in this and
in other countries, wherever people are
sufficiently interested in the subject to
gather together and unite in prayers, hymns,
speeches and Resolutions looking toward
the betterment of the world, through a
gradual disarmament (of armies and navies)
and cessation of hostilities between nations.
	While the greatest men of the world are
wrestling with this problem of how to pro- 
mote and foster better and happier condi-
tions for mankind, women also are equally
interested (if not even more) in the moral
and spiritual welfare of humanity, and.
should certainly exert an influence in
favor of the uplifting tendencies abroad in
the world. And in the coming together
for the general good of all, men are most
cordially invited to participate, even though
the meeting is held under the auspices of a
woman’s movement.


All ministers of the city and pastors of
churches are most respectfully solicited to
preach from the pulpit on the preceding
Sabbath, sermons upon the peace move-
ment.
	And, therefore, in conclusion we cannot
too strongly emphasize the fact that wo-
men in all the walks of life should attend
the meeting and strengthen the movement
by their presence, their influence and their
vote upon the Resolutions presented by the
Central Committee to the women of all
lands.
	Emmeline B. Wells, Elmina S. Taylor,
Margaret B. Salisbury, Zina D. H. Young,
Bertha G. Bamberger, Elizabeth C.
McCune, Minnie J. Snow, M. Isabella
Horne, Maria Y. Dougall, Ruth M. Fox,
Sarah J. Cannon, Romania B. Pratt.


