FILLMORE CELEBRATION.

	Minutes of Relief Society anniversary
meeting held in Fillmore ward meeting
house, March 17th, 1899, at 10 a. m.,
President Helen M. Callister presiding.
	The singing was conducted by Prof Wm.
Beeston. Singing “Hail to the Prophet,”
by the ward choir. Prayer by Patriarch


John Ashman. Singing, “Joseph Smith’s
First Prayer,” by ward choir.
	President Ira N. Hinckley then addressed
the society. Said he was pleased to be
here, had listened to many valuable in-
structions from the mothers in Israel, that
this was a fine institution to minister to the
poor and needy, the sick and afflicted, that
great responsibilities rested upon these sis-
ters, that the sisters by the bedside of the
sick often get tired, but they never give up.
	The secretary then read the minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society.
Mrs. Mary Henry rendered an instrumental
selection entitled “World’s Fair March.”
	Patriarch John Ashman addressed the
society. Among other things he suggested
that we get clothing that is not entirely
worn out and make them over into com-
fortable clothing for the little ones.
	The choir sang “Come let us rejoice in
the day of salvation.” Sister Seraph Jack-
son read a selection entitled “Evening
Thoughts.” Sister Mary Payne and
daughters sang a sacred song entitled “I
will love the Lord with all my heart.”
President Helen M. Callister then read an
original sketch on Pioneer Life. Brother
Tod Ashman sang “Break the News Gent-
ly to Mother.” Counselor Eliza Wicker
read an article about our sisters just re-
turned from the Woman’s Council in
Washington, also made an address. Sister
Lizzie Paine favored us with an instru-
mental selection, “Nearer my God to Thee.”
	Picnic was then passed and a short inter-
val spent in conversation. The choir sang,
‘O, Trust in the Goodness of God.” The
secretary, Isabel E. Robison, then read a 
manuscript paper containing instructions of
President Joseph Smith to the Relief So-
ciety, statistics and history of organization
in Utah, its growth, labors, etc., also local
organization. Song by Sisters Lizzie Ash-
man and Annie Carling entitled “Gentle
Annie.” Sister Angeline Hinckley ad-
dressed the assembly, urging all who were
not members to join the society. Address
by Brother Ova Peterson. Said that we
should hold all characters sacred, etc.
Maggie Starley recited an excellent poem
entitled “Count Me.” Sister Delilah K.
Olsen read an original poem, and Sister
Phebe Henry sang “A Sailor’s Grave.”
Sister Marietta Webb gave a brief sketch of
the life of her grandmother, Sarah M.
Cleveland. Mr. Tod Ashman sang. Presi-
dent H. M. Callister invited all the sisters
who were not members to join our society.
Brother John Jackson and Brother Cooper
sang a song. Brother Farth made a closing
address, the choir and congregation sang
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning,”
and benediction was pronounced by Brother
John Cooper.
