REAPER’S CLUB.

	The Reaper’s Club met in the Woman’s
Exponent office, Templeton building, April
31, 1899.
	A paper on the Life of David Livingston,
was read by Mrs. Marian C. Hannibal.
	Mr. Livingston was born near Glasgow,
Scotland, in 1813. He sailed to Africa and
landed at Cape Town in 1840. Livingston
received a good knowledge of medicine
and was a student of theology. He also
possessed considerable information on scien-
tific subjects. His love for humanity was
great, and prompted him to leave country
and friends to better the condition of others.
	Mr. Livingston endured many hardships.
While in Africa he was attacked by a lion,
and had his arm badly crushed. The
marks left from this injury served to identi- 
fy his remains when they arrived in Eng-
land.
	Livingston being lost for a time to the
civilized world, Henry M. Stanley was sent
to find him. This he succeeded in doing,
but Dr. Livingston after receiving aid de-
cided to remain and make further explor-
ations.
	He died amid the wilds of Africa on May
1, 1873. His body was taken to England
and interred in Westminister Abbey.
	Miss J. A. Druce read a paper on the
Life and Works of Beethoven, the great
composer.
	Ludwig Van Beethoven was born in 1770
at Bonn, a town on the Rhine a few miles
above Cologne. As a child he loved
music, was fond of nature and enjoyed
listening to the singing of birds. He did
not care much for amusements such as
children usually enjoy, and often appeared
lonely except when playing on his beloved
piano, then he was happy. In fact this
study was his chief pleasure in life.
	Beethoven received a good musical edu-
cation and possessed remarkable genius in
composition, improvisation, etc.
	His hearing became defective when he
was about 26 years of age, and at 28 de-
veloped into total deafness. Owing to this
severe calamity his labors as an instrument-
al performer gave place to work as a com-
poser.
	Many of his musical creations are the
grandest ever written. His Symphonies
are tone poems, and the Sonatas are
thought to be operas in disguise.


April 17th Mrs. Amelia Wardrop read a
paper on the Life and Inventions of T. A.
Edison.
	Mr. Edison was born in Ohio, February
1847, and was of Dutch and Scotch des-
cent. He read much at an early age on
chemistry.
	Many dramatic incidents occurred in this
man’s life. Fifteen years ago Edison took
hold of the electric light and made it a suc-
cess, so that its general use became practic-
able. Many experiments had previously
been tried both in this country and Europe,
but failed. Edison was also the discoverer
and inventor of the musical phonograph.
	Mrs. J. Druce gave descriptions of some
ancient cathedrals and churches in Mexico.
	The Grand Cathedral in the City of
Mexico was commenced in 1573 A. D., but
was not completed until 1667, at a cost of
over two million dollars. The towers are
two hundred feet high and contain forty
six bells. This edifice is grand and impos-
ing. The walls are built of unhewn basalt,
and the choir is constructed with very rare
and costly carved woods. Many of the
articles, such as candlesticks, crosses, etc.,
were of solid gold or silver encrusted with
precious stones.
	The great calender stone by which the
Aztecs calculated a recurrence of their
cycles, (52 years) and the months of each
year, was cemented into the western wall
of this cathedral in 1790 A. D. It still re-
mains in that position, and is a veritable
relic of the Aztecs. The stone is covered
with hieroglyphics.
	Other cathedrals were also richly dec-
orated.
			J. A. DRUCE, Cor Sec.


