gan to breathe, his eyes opened and the
light of intelligence spread over his features.
	He was asked his name and in a voice
that sounded a long way off, or even as
though it came from the tomb, he answered
correctly. The doctor then being worn out
ceased his operations, and the poor man
was allowed a second time to die. It
seems this eminent physician had experi-
mented some fifty times before on animals,
and believes that when death is caused by
a sudden shock, all other things being
favorable, that life may be restored per-
manently.
	A very sad affair has been the illness of
Rudyard Kipling, that great writer of prose
and poetry who has done so much to unite
England and America. At a time when he
seemed hovering between life and death his
little six year old daughter was called from
earth, which was kept from him for a time.
What a trial it must have been for his wife.
It is said the author has had no less than
one hundred poems written to him since
his illness. It is presumed he has not read
them, as he is rapidly improving.
	We have had several disastrous fires in
the past month, one in the Windsor hotel,
N. Y., in which 15 persons met death and
many were injured, cause, the careless throw-
ing away of a match after lighting a cigarette.

[Column 2]
Another in Omaha when twenty women
leaped for life. Two were dashed to pieces
and many others seriously hurt. And still
another in Chicago, and others which I have
not mentioned. We have also had an
epidemic of crime for which the newspapers
are largely responsible by publishing every
harrowing detail, thus putting things into
the heads of the wicked which would other-
wise, perhaps, not be thought of. 
	The queen of Norway and Sweden has
placed a contribution box upon her table,
in which visitors may place sums of money
to aid the Salvation Army.
	The love letters of that great and virtu-
ous (?) king, Henry VIII to Anne Bolyn,
have been found in the library of the Vati-
can. They are said to be very gushing
and boyish, and quite characteristic of the
old fellow.
	It is supposed that ten freight steamers, 
nine British and one American, with three
hundred lives, have been lost in the terrific
storms of March. In China hundreds of
villages have been submerged by Yellow
river floods, millions of lives lost and famine
exists insomuch that they are obliged to
call for aid.
	England and France have come to a
settlement in regard to the division of Africa,
and it is surmised that America will pro-
pose arbitration at the Peace Conference.
	Trusts too are flourishing. We are to
have a woolen goods Trust and a gigantic
whiskey Trust, with a capital of $128,150,
000.
	The Red Cross Society is to be reorgan-
ized with a president and president of board
of doctors and a chief staff, who will be
general manager. It will probably have a
building in the near future for its own ex-
clusive use in Washington. Clara Barton
will, of course, be the president.
	We are to have a Salt Palace and a
Federal Building in Salt Lake City.
	Possibly the ladies have heard that the
Legislature after sitting the usual time
with the last day lengthened out to 168
hours, failed to elect a Senator. But let us
draw the mantle of charity around our own
State and talk of things which, perhaps, are
more important. The war and the gallant
soldiers who are wearing out their lives, if
possibly they escape the shells of the enemy,
beneath a burning sun, chasing down the
Rebels who are held together for a time by
the selfish ambition of one man, who, by
the way, is said to have gained the love of
his people by his justice, kindness and
moderation. In the first battle of the 25th
one hundred and twenty-five Americans. 
were wounded and fifteen killed, three of
whom were Utah boys. Eleven hundred
and ten soldiers have been brought from
Cuba and Porto Rico to be buried in native
land. The Cuban assembly closes and
Gomez is to be recognized as a Cuban leader.
							R. M. F.


