UNIVERSAL PEACE MEETINGS.

	An International Committee of Women
has been formed, whose first task is the or-
ganization of peace meetings to be held in
all parts of the world on the eve preceding
the assembly at the Hague of the Czar's
Conference. Frau Professor Solenka, of
Munich, an ardent advocate of international
arbitration on the Continent, is one of the
most active promoters of the International
Committee. Frau Solenka is finding in the 
International Council and in the National
Councils affiliated therewith, instruments
already formed which may be utilized for
peace propagandism. The present plan is
through officers of the International Coun-
cil, presidents of National Councils, Local
Councils, and of other organizations of wo-
men, to arouse women to take the initiative
in arranging a programme, and organizing
peace meetings to be held in their respec-
tive communities on May 15.
	Only a general outline of the programme
can be suggested for the proposed meeting.
This outline must be subject to modifica-
tions dictated by local conditions.
	First: It is suggested that the appeal and
invitation of the Czar shall be read, and ex-
pounded with fairness to the generous
motives that must be ascribed to him.
	Second: Let an historical statement be
prepared showing the attempts that have
been made to reduce warfare and to re-
place militarism by civil adjudication.
	Third: Let brief speeches be made, each
upon a single aspect of war; for example,
the economic questions involved in it, the
moral and social effects of war, etc.
	To my own mind nothing could be more
profitable or more inspiring than a half
dozen three minute addresses on patriotism,
which shall discuss the subject from differ-
ent points of view. Whatever one’s atti-
tude towards expansion, whatever one’s
own opinions upon the questions involved
in the war with Spain and in the present
campaign in the Philippines, there can be
no doubt that the mind of the average
American citizen would be shocked by the
advocacy of the principles underlying
militarism. There was probably never a
period in human history when so large a
proportion of civilized mankind believed in
the influence of thought and sympathy.
Successful experiments with wireless tele-
graphy win from the public mind a friendly
attitude towards efforts to uphold and
strengthen the Conference of The Hague,
by meetings held simultaneously through-
out the world in behalf of the purpose, to-
wards the accomplishment of which the
Czar’s Conference may be considered the
first practical step.
