	SALT LAKE CITY MAY 15, 1899.


[Column 1]
	A HOPEFUL OUTLOOK.
	This issue of the paper closes the twenty-
seventh volume of the Woman’s Exponent,
established June 1, 1872. One can hardly
realize how few women’s papers there were
at that time, the New North West pub-
lished in Portland, Oregon, was the first
west of the Mississippi river, and only
very few had made their advent in the
Eastern cities. The Golden Dawn in San
Francisco appeared about the same time as
the “Exponent,” but both the New North
West and the Golden Dawn were discon-
tinued long since.
	At the present time there are many wo-
men’s papers and magazines in the United
States so it has ceased to be a novelty, and
they are now an important part of the news-
paper world.
	Here in Utah we have two, one a semi-
monthly, the other a monthly magazine.
The Review which was voted as the organ
of Utah clubs flourished for a while and
was very popular, but has been discon-
tinued.
	We will not weary our readers with de-
tails of newspaper work, its pleasures and
discouragements, but only remind them
that a new volume will commence with
June 1st, and that the paper will appear
in an entirely new dress, and it is ardently
hoped that the women of Utah will feel it
needs their support financially and in other
ways; by creating public sentiment in
favor of sustaining it among women, es-
pecially those connected with the Relief
Society of which the “Exponent” really is
the official organ.
	Presidents of the Relief Society every-
where should make an extra exertion to
make the paper popular, and authorized
agents try to increase their list of paid up
subscribers.
	The editor has been urged to furnish a
complete file of the “Exponent,” the
twenty-seven volumes bound in blue moroc-
ca with gilt lettering, for the World’s Ex-
position in Paris, and considering the in-
terest in the two books sent to Amsterdam
last year, (containing four volumes) it
would seem of sufficient consequence to ex-
hibit the literary work of Western women
in the early days of Utah, when it was
thought everything was too crude for more
than ordinary domestic occupations. Even
now one can read now and then of the ter-
rible ignorance that prevailed here until
recent years.
	Those of us who have been in Utah

[Column 2]
from the beginning know of the societies
literary as well as charitable organized at a
very early period, and the poems and essays
were as high-toned and as creditable in
style as those that are current nowadays.
	The people who settled these valleys
were not ignorant, and did not need mis-
sionaries sent here to be supported by
Christian churches in the East; they were
themselves Christians and not heathens,
and capable of teaching not only schools,
but the Scriptures as taught by the Savior
and His disciples. If the women of Utah
do not wish to be misrepresented in these
respects they should represent themselves
through their own publications. Main-
tain their own periodicals and circulate
them outside among the people of the
world, and especially among the branches
of the Church and of the Relief Society in
places remote from Zion where they are
anxious to know how to conduct and carry
on their own organizations in harmony
with the order maintained throughout the
entire society.
	It is not unlikely that this coming sea-
son will be a prosperous one and at any
rate it is the duty of all the Latter-day
Saints to prophesy good for Zion, and to
strive to have the prophecies fulfilled.
When Zion prospers all is well, and as the
women are a large part of Zion it is only
natural to suppose their affairs will prosper,
and if they are diligent and persevering
the legitimate labors in which they engage
will succeed, and let us believe the “Ex-
ponent” will double its subscription dur-
ing the new year about to begin.


[Column 1]
	THE PEACE CONFERENCE.
	Notwithstanding the Czar of Russia’s
call for a conference of all nations at The
Hague to consider peace measures was
ridiculed in the first instance, there seems
to be a widely awakened sentiment now in
favor of it and great men and statesmen
are expressing their views upon the subject
more and more favorably.
	The man who is to preside at this Peace
Conference is the Russian ambassador at
London. He is spoken of as a veteran
statesman and diplomat, his countenance
is calm and gracious; judging from pictures
in magazines one could easily imagine him
suitable to take charge of a gathering of
the nations representatives. Professor
Martaens who is also to participate is said
to be “the greatest living authority on in-
ternational law.”
	The British delegation at this Conference
is to be headed by Sir Julian Paunceforte,
who for years filled the position of ambas-
sador from Great Britain to this country.
M. Leon Burgeois, formerly prime minis-
ter of France, will head the French delega-
tion, he is reported to be “one of the most
eminent and scholarly men of contempor-
ary French statesmen.”
	Count Menster has been named as the
principal delegate from Germany. Profes-
sor Stenzel is another of the German dele-
gation, he has been severely criticised in
Russia and other countries for having de-
fended militarism.
	There can be no doubt of the great
eminence and strength of the men who
will compose the Conference, and whether
any pacific measures or methods are decided
upon or not the world will have been some-
what more enlightened upon warfare and
its evil tendencies, and will see the actual

[Column 2]
practical facts as they exist in other lands
of which, perchance, comparatively little is
known in the United States.
	The Peace Conference will be something
to remember in the future years as having
occurred at the close of the nineteenth cen-
tury, which has been marked by the
greatest progress of enlightenment along
many if not all lines of creative, scientific,
and inventive genius.
	The whole world of mankind, as it were,
will be looking on and watching the action
of this great international committee, which
really must produce an effect upon the
opinions and sentiments of the most truly
sensitive and most magnanimous minds of
the age.
	The International Peace Union estab-
lished some years ago has been steadily
growing among the people here and in
other lands. Conferences have been held
in Berne in Budapest and in Belgium, per-
haps in other places. Several ladies from
the United States have been appointed
delegates to these Conferences, and much
good literature has been sent out by the
Union, which has been steadily growing in
numerical strength and in popular senti-
ment. In Philadelphia there is quite a
flourishing society, Rev. Amanda Deyo is
president. She represented the society at
the National Council in Washington last
winter. The Universal Peace Union,
which is the name of the society in the
United States, is affiliated with the Nation-
al Council, and through that connection
the writer became somewhat acquainted
with the work and objects of the society.
Belva A. Lockwood is one of its ardent
representatives and an indefatigable worker
along these lines, also Mary Frost Ormsby.
Both women have been for years engaged
in many branches of reform work.
	The agitation of this subject, peace and
international arbitration and gradual dis-
armament, will necessarily create a senti-
ment in favor of better means of adjust-
ment of difficulties, and if no great change
is effected immediately public opinion will
be ventilated and people will come to an
understanding of the matter on general
principles, and in time will choose the bet-
ter way adhering more closely to the Golden
Rule.
	All these awakenings that come, from
time to time are helpful, and with such
meetings held in all lands as are being
held here in Utah, knowledge of the great
work of the Czar and the nation’s repre-
sentatives is sure to be diffused through
the daily press and from the pulpit, and it
cannot fail to produce good seed that will
spring up, and eventually the world will
become more inclined to peaceful solutions
of all the great problems of the universe.
At any rate the Peace Conference is a
hopeful indication to those who are looking
for the dawn of a better day, prophesied of
by the immortal Tennyson in that memor-
able poem, “Locksley Hall,”
		“A Parliament of nations,—
		The Federation of the world."


