ITEMS OF INTEREST.

	The remains of the late Lord Herschell,
ex-Lord Chancellor, who was sent to
Washington to take a leading part in
negotiations designed to settle differences
between the United States and Canada,
were sent to England by the ship Brooklyn.
This was considered a very graceful act,
and a decided compliment to Great Britain.
About the same time the Spanish Cabinet
resigned, and the queen signed the Peace
treaty independent of the Cortez.
	Our brave and gallant naval commander,
Governor General and statesman all in one,
George Dewey, has been made Admiral for
life, the office going out of existence at his
death.
	Queen Victoria’s visit to France, which
was said to be so repugnant to the people
of that Republic, seems to be progressing
nicely. It is said she is winning their 
hearts by her kind deeds and womanly
tenderness. On one occasion she had her
cortez stopped to allow the French train of
one of the peasantry to pass. Another time
a small boy was found crying. The queen
immediately stopped her carriage, assuaged
his grief by giving him a few coppers, and
left him smiling and happy. Her retinue
consisted of sixty persons, her chaise and
her own bed, which she takes with her
wherever she goes; her pet dogs, cats and
birds were sent ahead of her.
	Science records several steps in advance.
Speech can now be photographed. In
medical circles a new cure for pneumonia
has been found. The red marrow is taken
from a dead man’s body and used as a
Serum. But what I consider a most cruel
experiment was tried by Dr. Tuffier in
Paris before a number of his pupils. He
was called to the hospital immediately after
the death of a young and, I presume, poor
artist, and after trying all the means known
to science to make sure the subject was real-
ly dead he proceeded with the aid of his
pupils to lay bare the heart, and then
with his thumb and finger manipulated the
organ, forcing the blood through the lungs
and body and thus restored his life. The
dead man with a convulsive movement be-
