WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY FIFTH WARD LOGAN.
	MINUTES of the morning session, of the 
Fifth Ward Primary Anniversary, held in
the Meeting House, Tuesday April 23, 1895.
	President Mary H. Anderson presiding.
Meeting commenced by singing “Joseph
Smith’s First Prayer.” Prayer was offered 
by Sister Sarah H. Taylor. Singing, “Did
You Think to Pray.” Roll was called and
minutes of morning meeting of last an-
niversary were read and accepted with an 
amendment. Counselor Leoline Hurst
read the opening address in verse composed
by Sister Hattie C. Jenson (which we omit
for lack of space.)
	A recitation was nicely rendered by
Wesley Anderson. Aurelia and Fanny
Burnett sang a song entitled, “In the
Meadows,” A recitation entitled “Good
Morning,” was given by Janet Nelson. A
recitation entitled “Our Baby Boy” was
given by Violet Peterson. Questions and
answers on Church History were given by
a class of little boys and girls. Barbara 
Wilson gave a recitation entitled “Good
Manners.” A selection entitled “Our
Primary” was rendered by a class of little
boys and girls. Stake President Jane E.
Molen said she was struck so forcibly, when
saying her prayers this morning, to ask the
Lord to assist her on her journey. Before
reaching here my horse took sick and I was
afraid I would be unable to get here, but
the Lord answered my prayer, and so al-
lowed me to meet with you. Always listen 
to the promptings of the Holy Spirit, was
pleased to see the little boys step aside, and 
let the little girls pass from the stand first.
	Our primaries are for the purpose of mak-
ing us better Latter-day saints and to pre-
pare ourselves to grow up to be good and 
pleasing in the sight of our Heavenly 
Father; also to teach us to be gentlemen
and ladies, was pleased to hear that the
children cleaned the Meeting House. A
sketch on the life of President Brigham
Young was read by Harry Severn. A song
entitled “Did Jesus Love Them” was given 
by a number of boys and girls. Stake
Counselor Mattie B. Hanson said it would
be impossible to tell how pleased she had
been in listening to the exercises this morn-
ing. Some day all of you little boys will
be called on missions, if you live so as to 
be worthy of it; and if you do not know 
that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, fast and pray earnestly
and the Lord will give you a testimony for 
he said, “Ask and you shall receive,” but
we must be faithful and believe that he will
answer our prayers, What a beautiful as-
sociation you have! Your President and 
Counselors come to meeting week after
week to teach and instruct you, because of
the love they have toward you. Bishop
William Hyde said the Lord would bless
and comfort the parents of these children, if
they would come and visit the Primary once
in a while to see what the children were do-
ing, was pleased to see the children have so 
much faith. Asked the children to invite
their parents to visit with us in our meet-
ing this afternoon. Meeting was brought 
to a close by singing, “Zion is growing.”
President Anderson asked all the children

[Column 2]
to act as missionaries between meetings, 
and get as many to come as possible.
Benediction by Stake Counselor Emma
Pike.
	Minutes of afternoon meeting, President
Mary H. Anderson presiding. Meeting 
commenced by singing, “In our lovely
Deseret.” Prayer by Sister Priscilla Jacobs.
Singing “The Forest Song.” Minutes of
afternoon meeting of the last anniversary, were
read and aceepted. The exercises were
rendered as follows:—A moral story was 
given by Willie Hugi. A sketch on the 
life of President John Taylor was read by
Sarah Taylor. Song, “Think on These
Things” was given by a class of boys and
girls. A selection “The first principles of
the Gospel” was given by a class of little
boys and girls. Instrumental music was 
given by George Anderson.
	Stake Counselor Emma Pike said she was 
pleased to see so many parents here, as she
knew they would be paid for it. My heart
has been filled with joy to see the children 
take their part so well. I am sure the
angels are pleased with it too. I always 
feel at home when I come to the fifth ward
as I was present at the first organization.
Always remember that the eye of the Lord
is on you, no matter where you are, so we
should all try to be good and faithful child-
ren obey your parents, for the Lord says
“Honor thy Father and thy mother that
thy days may be long upon the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee.” Hoped
and prayed that the children would remem-
ber their prayers. I am pleased to see Sis-
ter Jacobs and Sister Kent with us this
afternoon. Nellie Hayball gave a recita-
tion entitled “Christmas Eve.” Wesley
Anderson gave a recitation. Kate Ander-
son and Sarah Taylor sang a song entitled,
"What is home without a mother.” Sister
Priscilla Jacobs said I want to be obedient
and respond when called upon, I am pleased
with the good order that has been main-
tained also for the parts that have been 
rendered. I have not seen the day that I
could not say “God bless the Primary
Children.” I am glad that I have lived to 
see the day that order has been maintained
in Primary, as “order” is one of the first laws
of Heaven. We ought all to improve and 
grow better each year. I am sure the bless-
ing of the Lord is poured out upon us.
Always listen to the promptings of the
spirit of the Lord because he has given
each of us a portion of his holy spirit. I 
am sure I have been well paid for coming.
Sister Mary Kent was truly thankful that
she had the privilege of meeting with us
today in the thirteenth anniversary. I am
glad to see the improvement you are mak-
ing. Always be polite to the aged and 
obedient to your president. Nellie Hurst
gave a recitation entitled “A Mother’s In-
fluence.” A sketch on the life of Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff was read by George
Anderson. Song, “Suffer little children to
come unto, me” by the Association.
	The Lord’s Prayer was repeated by Archie 
McNeil, Sister Agnes T. Swartz said it
won’t be long before you will be walking
off into the Y. L. and Y. M. Associations.
If you try and learn now, when you are
called on missions, you will be prepared
to go. Stake President Jane E. Molen
asked for a vote of all the little boys that
would like to be called on missions when
they grew up. Read the Book of Mormon, 
and pray over it, then you will get a testi-
mony of the truth of this gospel. I was so 
pleased to hear the sentiments that were

[Column 3]
given at roll call. Be kind to your parents.
Have a place for everything and put every-
thing in its place. Prayed that we would
all grow up to be good men and women in
the sight of God. The officers were all
voted in. Bishop William Hyde said our
records are sacred and should be kept.
President Mary H. Anderson felt that she 
owed a vote of thanks to the visitors that
have met with us today. Meeting was
brought to a close by singing “We are the
children of the Saints.” Benediction by
Sister Harriet E. Stowell. Mary H. 
Anderson President. Mary Sorenson First
ounselr, Loioline Hurst Second Coun-
selor.		EMMA BUNCE, Sec.


MRS. MARTHA M. DAVIDSON daughter of the
late Bishop Maughen of Cache County and of
Mrs. Mary A Maughan of Logan departed this
life Feb. 4, 1895, Mrs. Davidson was born Nov.
4, 1858, at Three Mile Creek Box Elder Co. she
resided in Greenville Cache Co at the time of
his demise. Deased leaves a kind husband and
seven children (one only an infant) to mourn her
loss. Her aged mother is deeply afflicted at
parting from her beloved daughter who had al
ways been a loving and affectionate child, to her
parents and a very constant and devoted wife and
mother to her family. She was beloved and
greatly respected by all who knew her. She died
in full faith of the Gospel—blessed be her mem-
ory, may our Father in heaven comfort the be-
reaved and give unto them His Holy Spirit to
sustain them in their affliction.
								COM.

