CURRENT LITERATURE.

[Including sketch of Fannie Fern.]
	IN this day when printed matter is
multiplied almost innumerably one cannot
keep up with reading even in the case of
books alone, and as for magazine and news-
paper articles it is entirely out of the
question; still when one looks upon the
class of literature of the present time, there
are some very excellent and useful new
books; and there are periodicals by the
wholesale containing ably written and in-
structive essays and papers on a variety of
practical, moral, and intellectual, as well as
metaphysical subjects.
	The Arena is classed about the foremost
of monthly journals at present, as compris-
ing the important subjects and live issues
and topics of the day, and time, and one
might get a very good idea of how the world
is rapidly moving on, by merely a thorough
perusal of this one magazine. It is how-
ever very expensive and one is apt to take
regularly to a cheaper journal with matter
more miscellaneous and varied, if not of so
high a grade.
	Speaking of books and their authors I am
constrained to mention Lilian Whiting’s,
“The World Beautiful” published in Bos-
ton last year. It is indeed a beautiful book,
and one cannot hesitate in giving such a
book to young people to read and pon-
der, it is poetry in prose, and truth in the
most delightful setting. There are so many
true sayings in it to cull from, that to turn
over half a dozen pages, one may greatly
enrich the store of thought; and the won-
der is how she could so clearly express the
thoughts that other women have felt just as
keenly perhaps, but were not able to give
even rude setting to, whereas Miss Whiting
has all her fine sayings dazzlingly polished,
and sharp-pointed.
	One chapter treating upon “Success as a
fine art” contains the following paragraph
which is as familiar to me in substance as
possible, and I am very grateful for the
fine arrangement of her wording.
	“To believe and go forward is the key to
success and to happiness. Doubt and dis-
trust are the negative and corrosive forces.
The enthusiasm for a high purpose calls in-
to being the agencies by means of which it
may be accomplished. Great powers attend
great thoughts, and, above all and beyond
all, among the creative forces is the power
of a great faith.
	“No life is successful unless it is radiant”
she says again. And later on in the same
chapter she says, “The one great truth to
which we all need to come is, that a suc-
cessful life, lies not in doing this, or going
there, or possessing something else; it lies
in the quality of the daily life.”
	In another chapter entitled “In newness
of Life” there are many things correspond-
ing to our belief in reference to prayer,
and answers to prayer, actually as marvel-
ous as circumstances in the history of our
Elders, when away upon missions, means
has been put into their possession
mysteriously as it were in answer to prayer,
and sometimes even when only through an
almost unconscious faith. After giving
some such examples she adds, "Humanity
needs to draw on its resources of Christian
faith,” and beyond this I believe more, that
humanity is now on the verge of the dis-
covery, and the development of this law.”
	I could go on quoting to the extent of the
time allotted me from this charming book,

[Column 2]
but I realize I must not dwell too long upon
one, when there are so many, but for our
Y. L. M. I. A. libraries, I do not know a
book more suitable, or one more likely to
help the student. Lilian Whiting is the
sister of Prof. Whiting of the Utah Univer-
sity, with whom you are most of you pos-
sibly acquainted. The family on the father’s
side are descended from Cotton Mather, and
on the mother’s side she is also of New
England people, though born in Niagara
Falls, New York. She was first employed
as a writer on the Cincinnati Commercial
and in 1880 went to Boston and began work
on the Evening Traveler as an art—writer;
in 1885 was made literary editor, and in
1890, took the editor-ship in chief of the
Boston Budget, which position she still oc-
cupies as far as I know. She is of medium
height, slight in figure, blue eyes, and light
sunny hair.
	I think it well we should know some-
thing of literary women, we are likely to
meet and that some of our sisters already
know, and who have shown us some atten-
tion, and so I want to tell you of Martha D.
Lincoln, whose nom de plume is Bessie
Beech author and journalist, she is the niece
of Brother Albert Brown and the cousin of
Samuel Brown of the Twenty-second Ward.
She entertained our Utah sisters in Wash-
ington this last winter one evening at a party
given to a house full of people, and urged
us to talk on our own subjects truly, and
though only Dr. Shipp, Mrs. Gates and
myself were present, we had a pleasant
time; afterwards we were all invited to dine
there but unfortunately we did not all ar-
rive in time. Mrs. Lincoln is much more
prominent than even our sisters who met
her are probably aware. She is very unas-
suming, but has been a very clever journal-
st and is still. She was born at Richfield
Springs N. Y. and educated near by, but
begun literary work at sixteen, contributing
to the “Morning Star” published at Dover
N. H. She married a medical student, who
has for many years been a semi-invalid;
they moved to Washington in 1871—and
the financial crisis of that period wrecked
her husband’s fortune and Mrs. Lincoln
then took to journalistic work in real earnest.
She corresponded regularly for the Daily
Chronicle, Republican, Union and Republic
and several Sunday Journals and also kept
up her connection with papers outside of
Washington. She wrote up President and
Mrs. Hayes silver wedding in the White
House and real weddings in that historic
house for the New York Tribune, New
York Sun, and Jamestown Daily Journal,
was reporter for the Cleveland Plain Dealer
at the same time, it is said the amount of
work she turned out was very remarkable.
In connection with two other journalists
she organized the National Press Associa-
tion, in Washington, July 10, 1882, it is
the first chartered Press Association in the
world. She was its first secretary and for
several years President. Her literary works
are “Beech Leaves” poems and “Central
Figures in American Science.” She does
many biographical sketches of famous wo-
men and is specially clever in childrens’
books. In 1891—she was appointed dele-
gate to the International Peace Congress in
Rome, and again in 1892 to the Congress in
Berne, Switzerland. The same year she
was elected President of the American
Society of Authors for Washington D. C.
which position she fills at present. She is a
tiny little creature, is very fond of her home

[Column 3]
and has decidedly domestic tastes. Mr. and
Mrs. Lincoln have one only son, he is mar-
ried and his mother is very proud of
being a grandma. Miss Mary E. Wil-
kins has two new books which have at-
tracted much attention of late—Pembroke
a typical New England Story of distinctively
Puritanical ideas, a type which we New
Englanders know so well, but that many
people would think overdrawn. It is amus-
ing in some parts, witty too, but affecting
in respect to sternness, rigidity and the sup-
pression of all emotional characteristics to
conform to the rules of propriety; the
self-abnegation that one will endure rather
than let their true feelings be known, and
the pride which supports one on the border 
of starvation, lest the neighbors should
know it, are all faithfully depicted. It is a
finely drawn pen picture of what might
easily have occurred, and the main points
are true to life. The “New England Nun” 
and other stories is her latest book, and is a
collection of short stories, that are very
popular, hen-pecked husbands and domineer-
ing wives, and husbands who took excellent
care of their stock, who had barns, saddle
and carriage houses, all sorts of farming im-
plements and plenty of help, but who left
the wife and daughters a house not as good
as the barn to live in, and all the hard work
of a farmer’s wife to do, but never considered
her need of help, or rooms in which to make
a family comfortable; all these are set forth
vividly. The descriptions of pine woods
and shrubbery the old-fashioned flower
gardens, with sweet peas and four o’clocks,
the meadows fresh with cowslips and clover,
all the charm of rural life is beautifully told
along with the stories; the morals are all
good, there is no lackadasicalness about
them; they are such vivid pictures of inci-
dents and scenery that you might shut your
eyes and see the representation, and almost
catch the odor of the pines and hear the rip-
pling brooks. Miss Wilkins was born in
Randolph, Mass., and comes of an old New
England family. She was educated at
Holyoke, her father died when she was
twenty two and it is said she is the last of
her family; her first success in writing,
though she had written several things be-
fore, was a prize story for a Boston paper,
and she soon became well known afterwards
as a regular contributor to periodicals. The
first production she was paid for, was a bal-
lad for Wide Awake, she wrote for the
Budget, Harper's Bazar, Weekly Maga-
zine and Young People. She has published
several books, her best works besides those
have mentioned are “The Humble ro-
mance,” “Two Old Lovers,” “A
Symphony in Lavender,” I cannot speak
of these from experience as I have never
read them; but her books and stories are
very popular and as she is still a young wo-
man she may yet attain greater celebrity,
than even by her stories and verses.
Maria Louise Pool is another New Eng-
land writer who is creating a sensation with
her books, so truthfully characteristic are
they of country and village life and the
humdrum common-places of the great mass
of the working people, that they appeal to
the hearts of the readers of this class of
literature pathetically. The shrewdness
and thrift, the reticence and silence, that
covers the warm and kindly heart, the New
England exclusiveness, the individual and
specific details, all help to make her books
characters of real everyday folks. She has
lived until recently in an old-farm house


[Column 1]
away up in the country; she is not young,
but her life has been a very congenial one,
free from the vicissitudes that break in up-
on this class of work. Miss Pool was born
near the seashore in the old Bay State, and
Boston was of course the “Mecca of her
hopes.” She wrote first for newspapers,
her first book was a collection of letters en-
titled “A vacation in a buggy.” It is said
all her books have an individual flavor and
freshness very attractive. Tenting at Stony
Beach and Dally were among her first nov-
els. then came Roweny in Boston, Mrs. Keat
Bradford, “The two Salvinis, Katherine
North” and “Out of Step.” She has work-
ed hard and has had many refusals, of her
work though apparently she was nothing
daunted. She says she has a collection of
printed forms of refusals from publishers.
For some years while doing so much literary
work she kept a riding pony, and she also
drove a horse, which exercise brushed away
the cobwebs from her brain; she always
works from nine to twelve in the morning;
at present she is taking a rest on account of 
her health.
	Marie Corelli has been written up once
by one of the members of this club and
I will only mention her new book “The
Silence of the Maharajah,” it is in the
"Violet Series” a new style of binding,
very dainty in cover with illustrations of the
subject that are extra fine; the book describes
English society in India and the entertain-
ment of an East Indian Prince by the Society
people; it is a queer book like most of her
work and can scarcely be called good, mor-
ally, yet it is meant to give the contrast be-
tween vices of our own country and the
heathen, or oriental superstitions and beliefs,
placing us as civilized people at a decided
disadvantage. But Marie Correlli must be
a powerful genius; she deals largely in the
marvelous and attempts great heights and
flights of fancy and sometimes she comes
down to earth suddenly and disappoints us
sadly, but taken as a whole her books are
very fascinating, so different from other
people’s books that one must admit she has
developed a new style. It is not more than
six years since her books came out, and in
that time her fame has reached through the
world. I believe I have read all her books
except one “Barabbas” that I have not seen
or even a review of it though I confess I
should like to, “Thelma” is certainly her
best in my judgment and is vividly written.
Every Norwegian ought to read it, the word
painting is specially fine and the story of the
land of the Norsemen is rich in beauty of
land and sky, salt seas and raging billows,
ice and snow, making a strong impression
upon the reader who in imagination is
carried away to this beautiful far-off
country of the midnight sun. Miss
Correlli is a Venetian type of beauty, light
and fair with fluffy golden hair, and very
girlish in style and manner, her eyes are
blue, her smile charming, and she has beauti-
ful teeth and exquisite hands; she is a bril-
liant talker but does not speak much of her-
self; evidently she is of a high order of in-
tellectuality as one must judge from her
books as well as the description of her per-
sonality. She has had very strange experi-
ences, akin to revelation which have so im-
pressed her that she cannot be persuaded to
speak of them. She is decidedly un-
orthodox, though she is a Roman Catho-
lic yet the devout Catholic regards her as a
heretic.
	Fanny Fern some years ago created quite

[Column 2]
a furore in the literary world of that date.
Undoubtedly she was a decided genius, and
most of us who lived so long ago, recollect
with what eagerness we looked forward for
the New York Ledger, not only for Mrs.
E. D. N. Southworth’s novels but Fanny
Fern’s racy articles so keen and cutting on
every question of the time. Her books are
still read with great interest by all old-
fashioned people and are well calculated to
impress young people with correct ideas of
life. Her style was rich and graceful as
well as humorous, and the world were
ready enough to admit she was highly gifted,
though it was not known until after a strug-
gle with poverty and troubles that made it
positively necessary for her to make an ex-
tra exertion to obtain a livelihood. Her real
name was Sarah Payson Willis and she was
born in Portland Maine July 9th 1811—her
father was a compositor and editor and her
brother N. P. Willis the poet. In her girl-
hood she was fond of books though not of
regular study and she often played truant,
she was very mischievous and played all
sorts of naughty tricks making her little
friends uncomfortable by turns; she liked
to be out of doors and in fact was somewhat
unmanagable. Her father a strong
orthodox was a great believer in what
Yankees call “the becomings”—and there-
fore could not understand his daughter’s
waywardness. As she grew older she was
decidedly charming, but she loved freedom
and was in no hurry to marry though she
had many admirers; at twenty-six she mar-
ried Mr. Eldredge, cashier in a bank, son of
a Boston physician; the young husband
loved his wife almost to idolatry it is said,
they had three little girls, one of them died
of croup at three years of age, almost break-
ing the hearts of the doating parents, but
five years after the father and husband was
taken in the glory of his manhood and the
young wife was left a widow with two little
children to face the world alone. It is said
she went to her brother who was at that
time prosperous for advice in reference to
writing with a view of earning money, but
he discouraged her and offered no assistance,
though it is quite probable he did not know
of her destitute circumstances, as her hus-
band’s father had rendered her some help 
and had taken one of the children home to
relieve her cares. She did not heed her
brother’s advice but commenced writing, and
soon realized something substantial in the
way of remuneration; her family not sus-
pecting her nom de plume, were profuse in
praise of the young writer who was extra-
ordinarily fast becoming famous. Her book
Shadows and Sunbeams, is in every library
in the land, and other stories of hers are as
great favorites now as they were formerly
to those who are acquainted with the best
books; but taken in its broadest sense the
articles she wrote for the New York Ledger
were the best known and gave her greatest
celebrity. After living a widow until her
children were grown and she herself had a 
world-wide reputation as a writer Mrs.
Eldredge married James Parton, who was a
newspaper man and a magazine writer well
known to the general public. They lived
in New York City and were very devoted
and happy. Some years ago Mrs. Parton
died, though she maintained her brilliant
reputation as a writer until her last fatal ill-
ness. After her death Mr. Parton and the
daughter continued the house-keeping and
finally he married her daughter.
E. B. W.


