	THE PARABLE OF THE POOR WIDOW.

	There was in the city a certain poor
widow, who feared God, and wrought
righteousness; and to all the anxious care
and toil of rearing her fatherless children,
there was added unto her much bodily
affliction, she was a great sufferer.
	And it came to pass in process of time,
when her children were grown up around
her, and she began to look to them for that
comfort and consolation, which in her con-
dition, she so much needed—that she was
sorely disappointed; even in this long
cherished hope of her widowhood. For
one treated her with cold indifference, and
seldom spoke to his mother either good or
bad. Another had caused her much pain
by his misconduct, and as age and infirmity
increased upon her, and there was no one
to condole and comfort her, the poor widow’s
heart began to fail, and her spirit to sink
within her. And she began to say within
herself, what availeth me that I have toiled
through all these long years of suffering
for the benefit of my children? And in the
anguish of her spirit, she cried unto the
Lord. Saying "O Lord, wilt thou be
pleased to make known to thy handmaid
how—all these things can be made to work
together for good, according to the
promises?” And the Lord answered the
poor widow according to her request, and
sent an angel to comfort her. And he
spake comforting words to the poor widow.
He said moreover, look around now upon
those that have health and wealth in
abundance: where are their bowels of
mercy towards the afflicted? But thy suf-
ferings have increased thy compassion, now
therefore, if thou wilt continue in well do-
ing, and possess thy soul in patience; thou
shalt be made a mother in Israel a messen-
ger of mercy! And when the poor widow
heard these things, she was content, yea—
her heart, was filled with joy at the pros-
pect of doing good.
	But it came to pass that the poor widow
died! And was carried by the angels into
Abraham’s bosom.Yea—her spirit did
soar towards heaven, even as the lark rises
up in the morning full of rejoicing! And
on the way she was met and embraced by
the holy ones, and she was glad because she

[Column 2]
was free. Having left all her afflictions be-
hind her, and thus she passed many happy
days in sweet and heavenly converse with
congenial spirits. Her youth was renewed
as the eagle, yea—it did seem to her, that
in one harmonious, joyous life, old age and
youth were blended.
	And as the memory of the past came
back to her recollection, she began to say
within herself, surely I have been in this
delightful place before, and some of these
were my companions, but there were others,
whom now I do not see. And she said to
the angel, “where are those my companions,
in whom I once, delighted. There was
Rachel, Ruth, Mary, Mercy and Evangeline,
where are they now?” And the Angel
grasped the widow's hand and wept as he
replied, “Alas! For them! They’re fallen!
They have been deceived aud seduced by
wicked men, who wooed and won their
virgin love, but to defile and ruin.”
	And there was, as though there had been
a veil withdrawn, and the widow saw them
afar off, in the place of their torment, there
was wailing and gnashing of teeth. And
when she saw them she wept sore, and re-
fused to be comforted, for she said, surely I
do remember them, when they were pure as
the angels.
	And she said to the angel, "let thy hand-
maid I pray thee, go down now, and pluck
them as brands from the burning?”
	And he said unto her “how?”
	And she said, “I know not, but it was
promised me that I should be a messenger
of mercy. Now therefore if there be
mercy in heaven that can reach even these,
O let me go down to them and tell them?”
	And he said unto her, "go and prosper!
and the blessings of all be upon thee, be-
cause thou hast prefered it before all honor, to
seek and to save the outcast! For behold
the bosom of the great Father of all, doth
yearn over these with exceeding compassion,
because they sinned not willingly, but were
deceived. Now therefore, thou art a mes-
senger of mercy unto them. And many
shall be glad for thy coming, for they shall
yet be redeemed and sanctified, from all
their filthiness will I cleanse them, saith
the Lord! And surely I will avenge them
upon their heartless deceivers in that day,
when I will cause them to be clothed in
garments clean and white and to sing the
songs of the redeemed, in the society of the
angels, while their seducers, who died as
they lived, impenitent shall be left to writhe
in their torment!”
	And because thou hast desired this at my
hands, blessed art thou, and behold, I do
give unto thee a promise. That all the
blissful emotion, of that holy—heaven born
affection, when thy maiden love was wooed
and won, shall be renewed unto thee, in all
its purity, aud increased unto thee in all
its delights for ever and ever!
