NATIONAL AMERICAN W. S. A.
	THE distinguished women who were ex-
pected here to hold a Conference of the
National-American Woman Suffrage A
sociation arrived on Sunday May 12, as
anticipated and were met at the depot by a
large delegation of suffrage women wearing
their colors, in carriages and the “Utah”
which accommodates over thirty people.
Breakfast had been ordered for the party at
the Templeton and afterwards the ladies
drove for awhile to see the city from various
points. In the afternoon the Rev. Anna
Shaw delivered a discourse in the large
Tabernacle to an immense congregation of
several thousand people. Miss Susan B.
Anthony followed Miss Shaw speaking for
a few minutes only, in a very forcible and
earnest manner. Bishop Whitney occupied
the remainder of the time.
	The Union service at the theatre did not
prove a union of ministers of the different
Churches as anticipated, but Miss Shaw
fulfilled our utmost expectations. Her ser-
mon was “The Heavenly Vision,” and we
greatly regret that we have not this elo-
quent sermon in full to use in our paper.
However the daily papers were very
gracious and made quite extended notices of
her address. The house was literally
packed.
	Monday morning May 13th, at 10 o’clock
the Conference opened in the City and
County Building in the hall where the
Constitutional Convention had been held.
The decorations had been left in place so
the ladies had flags and banners and stream-
ers as ornamentation, as well as beautiful
flowers in vases to greet the eye and make
the hall a pleasant picture. The large
lithographs of Miss Anthony and Mrs.
Stanton were hung in conspicuous places,
but the visitors themselves were the most
powerful attraction.
	Governor West who had been invited to
introduce Miss Anthony came early and
was on the platform to greet these celebrat-
ed women as they came in. The hall was
filled with men and women watching the
door, eager to see these famous ladies as
they entered the room.

[Column 2] 
The Colorado delegates who had arrived
Sunday afternoon came on to the platform
and after the stand was filled, the Secretary’s
desk was also filled up, every seat in the room
and many had to stand.
	The Conference was called to order by
Mrs. E. B Wells, and the Rev. Anna H.
Shaw offered prayer.
	Governor West introduced Miss Anthony
to the assembly with a very happy and
brief speech saying “It is a pleasure and
a distinguished honor to introduce one
whose fame is world-wide and whose work
has been devoted in the highest sense to
humanity, he alluded to her former visit to
Utah and the fact of her being introduced
by the mayor Daniel H. Wells, she carried
away pleasant recollections of her first
visit, and he sincerely hoped that the present
sojourn would be even more agreeable, as
she had come just after the Constitutional
Convention had engrafted into the Con-
stitution, into the organic law, a provision
granting equal suffrage to women. Gov.
West assured the ladies that the Constitu-
tion which provides for suffrage for wo-
men will be carried by an overwhelming
majority. (Applause )
	Miss Anthony’s response was very
gracious and her introductory address was
very complimentary to Utah. She alluded
to the gains made in securing school suf-
frage in twenty five states municipal suf-
frage in one full suffrage in Wyoming and
Colorado and practically in Utah, because
it is sure to carry. Her speech in full will
be given later.
	Gov. West also introduced the Rev. An-
na H. Shaw as one of Miss Anthony’s
most renowned and successful co-workers.
Miss Shaw made an eloquent address in her
usual bright and winning way which we
shall include when we publish in full. Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball the pioneer in the wo-
man suffrage work in Utah, welcomed the
visitors most cordially and referred to the
first visit of Miss Anthony and related
quite a number of reminiscences of past
work of these great leaders of the agitation
for suffrage.
	Mrs. Lyle Meredith Stansbury of Denver
and Mrs. Mary C. C. Bradford of the same
City were each formally introduced and
made brief addresses. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young Honorary Vice President of the
N. A. W. S. A. made a brief speech of wel-
come and was followed by Mrs. William
Ferry, of Park City, Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith and by Mrs. Joanna Melton a brilliant
and humorous Scotchwoman, who always
puts her hearers in a good humor. Next
came Mrs. C. E. Allen President of the
Utah Federation of Clubs, who sort of re-
 lated her experience, then Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne a pioneer woman of 1847, telling a
little of the early hardships. Dr. E. B.
Ferguson said a few words of welcome and
expressed her pleasure at the visit of Miss
Anthony, and the Rev. Anna H Shaw.
Hon. J. R. Murdock of Beaver was the
last speaker, he told the ladies he was a
member of the Legislature of 1869 and
1870 when the right of suffrage was first
conferred upon the women of the Territory,
and again had been privileged to sit in the
Convention which had made it a part of the
Constitution of the new state.
	In the afternoon Mr. and Mrs. F. S.
Richards gave a very large and elegant re-
ception at their handsome residence on A.
Street to over three hundred guests. The
house was very beautifully and artistically

[Column 3]
decorated with flowers vines, etc. In the
dining room where delicious refreshments
were served by daintily dressed young girls,
the prevailing color of the decorations was
the significant yellow, and the effect of the
arrangement altogether was very attractive
to the eye and displayed exquisite taste.
	An evening session was held with a
crowded audience, hundreds not being able
to gain admission. President Angus M.
Cannon made the opening prayer and Miss
Maude Pratt with the Cecelia Club rendered
very effectively and in excellent voice that
beautiful hymn, “The Psalm of Life.”
The Conference was adjourned to the As-
sembly Hall for the following morning
where there would be plenty of room.
	There was an enthusiastic meeting in the
morning of Tuesday, and in the afternoon
the ladies with about a hundred and twenty
five others went out to see the Lake and
the elegant pavilion at Saltair. Col. N. W.
Clayton, with his usual graciousness, kind-
ly consented to put two cars at the disposal
of the party, Mrs Clayton accompanying
the distinguished visitors. In the evening
the Assembly Hall was filled to overflowing
notwithstanding the many attractions there
were at other places the same evening.
	Hon. John T. Caine made the opening
prayer, and Miss Maude Pratt sang ex-
quisitely the beautiful song entitled “My
heart at thy sweet rest.” The speakers
were Mrs. Lyle Meredith Stansbury whose
paper was itself a volume of interesting
matter and very telling.
	Miss Anthony in her own original man-
ner gave a logical clear and forcible as well
as very pleasing address.
	Miss Shaw was the last speaker and car-
ried the audience in one almost continuous
round of applause.
	At 10-30, Mrs. E. B. Wells adjourned
the National Conference after the following
resolution, presented by Mrs. Mary Carrol
Craig Bradford, of Colorado had been
adopted.
	Whereas, great gains in the suffrage sen-
timent and achievement have made the last
year memorable: and
	Whereas, The women who have strug-
gled so long in order that the ideal Ameri-
can republic might become real have reason
to hope that the final incarnation of justice
in American institutions is near at hand;
and
	Whereas, The five states of New York,
Oregon, Nevada, Idaho and Utah have de-
termined to submit the question of full suf-
frage for women; and
	Whereas, The women of two states al-
ready possess full suffrage and the women
of one state municipal suffrage, and school
suffrage is enjoyed by the women of twenty-
five states: and
	Whereas the men of Utah have seen fit
to build the foundation of their new State
upon absolute justice, equality and freedom:
therefore be it
	Resolved, That the sentiment of this
conference is one of profound gratitude to
the men of Utah who have so unequivocally
and practically witnessed to their faith in
the principle of exact justice to all the citi-
zens of this new and glorious common-
wealth.”
	The visit of Miss Anthony and the Rev.
Anna H. Shaw is an event that will ever
be remembered as a red-letter day in the
history of the Territory, and the entire pro-
ceedings will be published at an early date.
We very much regret the limited space
which prevents our giving it all at once.


We are very grateful to the daily papers
that have devoted so much space to the wo-
man question, and have given such splendid
accounts of the proceedings of the Confer-
ence.


