CACTUS PAPERS NO. 2.
[Concluded from page 271.]
	“You need'nt argy, for I haint no argy-
ment for you, I just simply won’t sign my
name to have a woman put over me as
boss.”
	Saying which he picked up his buckets,
and hastily entered the corrall, closing the
gate after him.
	I walked slowly away, thinking of the
weak, amiable old mother who in this case
held up the other end of the neck yoke; and
who had so dutifully told me to “ask Dicky
Ben,” and sighed to myself “Oh consistency,
thou art a jewel.”
	The Strong folks all signed with the ut-
most good humor; so did the Sensabal
family, with the exception of Miss Sally,
who declared that she had all the rights
she wanted, and when she felt herself to be
down-trodden, she would let us know, as
our services might then be needed, and
much to the same effect. It was now get-
ting along toward chore-time, and I thought
I must quit and finish in the morning.
	But as I passed the Post Office, I noticed
a number of acquaintances standing within
so I thought to make one last appeal before
hieing away to get supper and tend the
children. The crowd already had an inkling
of my business, things of so startling impor-
tance travelling quickly in a rural district,
so I had no difficulty in opening the subject.
Some signed gladly, some were afraid, some
did it because another d d, some did not do
it at all. There was much bantering and
arguing, but experience had made me wise.
I had learned to cut short a long dialogue
on a mazy exposition of views, and we had
a hot, sharp debate for some moments when
up sauntered Prof. Full pate, scholar and
gentleman, who had heretofore been ab-
sorbed in looking over a book.
	“Why, why, what’s the matter here,”
he asked enquiringly.
	“Nothing, only we want you to sign this
paper?”
	“Oh, all right,” glancing over it, “Any-
thing to please the ladies.” And he put
down his signature plainly and legibly, in
view of the assembled crowd.
	“Yes,” chimed in a voice from some ob-
scure corner, "and here’sanother for you to
sign Professor.”
	“Ah, indeed, this suits me too.” And if
the learned scholar and gentleman, did not,
then and there sign his name, again, on the
detested opposition paper, asking that the
suffrage article be placed separately before
the public.
	In great indignation I turned away, and
as I passed through the door, overheard an
old gentleman grumbling to himself—
	“It’s mighty funny that the wommen
folks don’t have sufferin’ enough naturally
in life, without wantin’ to go and hunt up
a lot more. They beat all, they do, for in
consistency.”
	I was angry, yet amused, I felt myself to
have been half insulted, browbeaten, made
fun of, and a great many other things, by
people whom I had esteemed as ladies and
gentlemen before, and my friends. There
was some comfort, however, when I opened
my paper and scanned over the forty-seven
names of strong and influential men and
women inscribed there. And when, in the
evening, I recounted my experiences be-
fore my husband and children, we laughed
away all the disagreeables, so that now I
am in as good humor as ever, especially
since we gained the object of our heroic


struggles, and kept the article in the con-
stitution.
	Long live and flourish the true-hearted
men who stood firm for equal rights and
liberty.
