VISIT TO EMERY STAKE.
Editor Exponent:
	ACCORDING to appointment we, Sister
Mary E. Irvine and myself left this City for
Emery Stake on April 17, arriving at Price
1-30 p. m. Were met by President Relief
Society, Sister Sarah Cox and conducted
to Bishop Frantzen’s where we were
hospitably entertained and held meeting in
the evening which was well attended.
	The City is nicely laid out and many 
beautiful shade trees planted. On 18th, we
proceeded in a carriage over very rough


roads to Huntington, 22 miles, where we
partook of luncheon at Brother and Sister
Pulsifer’s, thence to Castle Dale to meet with
the sisters in Conference. Brother Cox ac-
companied by his wife took us to Sister
Maria Olsen’s, President Relief Society and
we remained there two days. It was very
pleasant to meet with an old and valued
friend so comfortably situated in her new
home, also many other dear friends of form-
er acquaintance who have, through their
industry, made homes in the “desert.”
My heart was drawn out towards the
people there, to see how they have labored
and toiled in this desolate region to obtain
the comforts of life.
	We had an excellent conference which
was well represented from the various set-
tlements. The people are alive and zealous
for the truth. President Larsen spoke very
encouragingly to the sisters, also urged
them to sustain the EXPONENT which, he
said, conveyed much useful information and
should be liberally patronized.
	I should not forget to mention the high
appreciation held by the people generally of
the labors and influence of Apostle Lyman
who visits them occasionally and they ad-
here to his counsel and withal observe the
word of wisdom.
	On Saturday there was an interesting
Primary Conference showing that the child-
ren are well cared for. A young lad, from
Orangeville, whose name I did not ascertain,
spoke beautifully and seemed especially
adapted for presiding.
	After meeting we returned to Hunting-
ton and a meeting was appointed in the
evening. Stake President, Sister Larsen,
Sister Irvine, Sister Cox and Sister Pulsifer
met with the sisters from which I begged to
be excused being somewhat weary, I retired
early and next morning we returned to
Price where a meeting was appointed in the
evening. On Monday morning we bade
farewell to our kind friends and proceeded
homeward.				M. A. HYDE.


