THE CONVENTION ADJOURNED.

	ON Wednesday May 8th, the Constitu-
tional Convention which had been in ses- 
sion sixty-six days adjourned sine die, hav-
ing completed their work satisfactorily to
themselves; the members were anxious to
go to their homes and resume work in other
directions. The Constitution makers must
now be judged by the work itself when
submitted to the people as a whole. How-
ever there is little if any doubt as to the
final result when it comes before the legal
voters of the Territory. There is where the
test will be made, and we believe the victory
won. Statehood is preferable to Territorial
vassalage in which Utah has been kept so
long, and has waited for so patiently.
	There was considerable mutual congratu-
lation among the members on the success 
that had attended their efforts, and alto-
gether the winding up of the affair seemed
a happy termination of what has been, dur-
ing a part of the time at least, rather un-
pleasant working at cross purposes.
	This was particularly the case when the
subject of equal suffrage was on the tapis.
But finally the victory was on the right
side, and the winners were very magnani- 
mous towards the losers, and good feeling
and comradeship prevailed again after the
combat of words.
	The women of the Territory who were
anxious for equal rights and privileges were
exceedingly grateful to those who stood
fearlessly by their cause through the strug-
gle for their enfranchisement, and were
desirous of making some suitable expression
of their gratitude and acknowledgment of
services rendered: and realizing the arduous
labors of all who had taken part in the
work of the Convention, decided to make a
public demonstration that would show the
interest they felt, and their sincere ap-
preciation of the work of this great body
of delegates who were representing in the
assembly the people of the Territory.
	At last it was decided to give a public re-
ception at the Hotel Templeton, that these
men from all parts of the Territory might
meet as large a number as possible of the
people of Salt Lake City. It was entirely
voluntary on the part of the women who
made all the arrangements and carried out
the plan proposed that it should be a purely,
social entertainment. That it really was so
cannot be denied.
	And when the Constitution was finished
and the engrossed copy had been signed by
ninety nine members out of the one hun-
dred and seven the President announced
that it had been adopted. (Applause.)
There were no negative votes. 

