HOW MARY ANN CIRCULATED THE PETl- 
TION IN STRINGTOWN.
	A NINE days wonder—a sensation equal
to that of the advent of a new circus or a
band of Assyrian beggars with a danc-
ing bear, has just been in progress; indeed,
the pulse of Stringtown has hardly yet quit
palpitating from its effects, and probably
will not until there is something more ex-
citing to take its place.
	You must know, we have a Suffrage As-
sociation in our town. It is but a youthful
affair, and its members are but children in
politics, etc. Yet it has been a thorn in the
side of many a good honest soul, and a
source of wonder and comment among many
who suppose we meet together to talk about
the men, and tear their characters to atoms.
Poor mistaken creatures, they never come
near to satisfy themselves as to our good in-
tentions, and our efforts to improve and lift
ourselves from the mire of ignorance and
superstition; but, hiding their heads, give
way to morbid forbodings of the terrible
state of society which will ensue if this
thing goes on. But in spite of opposition,
we are growing and gaining strength, and
like infants of a larger growth, are now
able to take a little bread with our milk;
while such opposition but serves as an im-
petus to renewed effort.
	We have a president of whom we are
proud, to say the least. So the other day,
when she called a special meeting, for the
transaction of “Special and important busi-
ness,” there was an immediate and hearty
response. Without going into details, we
were there given each a copy of a petition,
asking that a clause favoring equal suffrage
be inserted in the State Constitution then in
process of manufacture, with instructions to
canvas the town, and secure as many sig-
natures as possible.
	To all, this seemed a fitting and unex-
pected opportunity to remove some of the
prejudice existing against us, and with
cheerful faces we set out on our errands,
nothing doubting as to our complete and
unanimous success.
	I was assigned the district of Main and
Big-bug streets; and I at once set about the
business, thinking to finish my canvas that
afternoon, and report success in the evening.
I went into the mercantile establishment of
Puff, Duff and Digdeep, to purchase a pen-
cil and a paper of pins. In the absence of
something better to do, the proprietors stood
around the store, with some half dozen
other shining lights, talking with the
gravity of sages, on the subject of politics,
“Now,” thought I, “is my opportunity,
they will be just in the right mood for our
proposition.” Being perfectly well
acquainted with all, I had no hesitation in
approaching them, which I did, paper in
hand.
	“Gentlemen,” I said cheerfully, “I have
a paper for you to sign.”
	They at once exhibited considerable in-
terest. Mr. Puff took the paper from my
hand, and read it aloud to his colleagues.
An ominous silence ensued, followed by
Mr. Puff pompously and severely enquir-
ing.
	“Mary Ann Blinkenstoffer, where, is
your husband.”
	In the field,” I replied innocently, “at-
tending to his business.”
	“And where are your children?” “In the
school-room.” I answered simply.

[Column 2]
	“Where are your dinners?”
	“Why, in our stomachs, of course,” I re-
plied, flaring up, “And if I can furnish you
with any further details of my domestic af-
fairs, I will do so at some future time, when
I am in less of a hurry.”
	“O, come now, Sister Blinkenstoffer,”
said Puff in a conciliatory tone, “Don’t get
angry, I only said what I did for the good
of yourself and family, and should have
stopped when I asked you what you were
doing.”
	“Well,” I exclaimed, “I will tell you, I
too am ‘in the field,’ attending to my busi-
ness. My husband does not know of it,
but if he did, he would favor the move-
ment for proof of which assertion you may
ask him.”
	With these words, I picked up the paper,
and with all the dignity I could command,
walked to the door during a burst of laugh-
ter which I realized was at the expense of
the pompous Puff.
	I was recalled by cries of “come back”
“We want to hear more about this,” “I
want to sign that paper,” I swallowed my
wrath, and went back. For one hour and
thirteen minutes I stood, talking like a steam
engine by way of explanation, before I got
that crowd to understand what I really
wanted. Mr. Dohed was positive I was
trying to enlist members for the Suffrage
Association, and did’nt want his wife and
daughters to go there and get stuffed with
nonsense. He had a hard enough time to
get along with them as it was, and he did’nt
know what would become of him in case
they put on any more airs.
	Digdeep signed the paper first and with-
out comment, but with a merry twinkle in
his eyes that spoke volumes.
	Duff did’nt want his wife closeted all
night with a crowd of drunken Jurors. In
vain I explained that such a thing was im-
possible under existing laws. I met it
everywhere, and from all classes, until I
finally decided that it was high time women
were admitted on a jury if drunken mem-
bers were so universal an institution.
	Mr. Feereful said women were exempt from
service in case of war and if they had equal
suffrage they would hence have more rights
than men, which would be entirely wrong.
	“Indeed,” I said with spirit, “That re-
mark is equivalent to admitting that our
cause is just and right. Besides, you are
wrong in the idea that women are exempt
from service.”
	“How so?” he asked.
	“Why, women have the very hardest
time of all during a time of war?”
	“Please explain.”
	“Well,” I went on, “they have the care
of the home and family, the anxiety for ab-
sent loved ones, and—”
	‘And what?”
	“Well,” I said slowly and impressively,
“If it were not for the women, where
would be your soldiers? An army of men
represents a degree of labor and care, pain
and anxiety which cannot be estimated.
Oh, there is no use denying it, women have,
and always have had, the hardest row to hoe
in this world. ’
	Mr. Feereful signed the paper; so did
many others, only Puff, Duff and Dohed
standing aloof.
	A sudden twang from the brazen-faced
advertisement clock warned me that time
was flying and I made a hasty exit, leav-
ing them to talk over the shocking affair at
their leisure.

[Column 3]
	I encountered Councilor Thin-skin at his
gate and accepted his gracious invitation to
accompany him into his house, with visible
satisfaction. With great urbanity he listened
to my request, and with great deliberation
proceeded to argue me out of my views.
	“You see Mrs. Blinkenstoffer, heaven has
implanted in the human breast a feeling—
call it love or sentiment—or what you like,
a feeling—which, between the sexes, may
be likened to a golden chain. It holds man
and woman together; It is as different from
all other feelings as you can imagine, and
while it is strong as steel when properly
nourished, a single false-step will break the
link and they each fly off at a tangent and
it requires a twenty horse power engine to
bring them together—”
	“Oh, Judge,” I exclaimed laughing in
his face at this mixture of sentimentalism
and engineering, “What has all this fol-de-
rol to do with the question. Are you go-
ing to sign or not?”
	“Hold on, Mrs. B. I’m coming to that
directly, I was just going to remark that I
believe this here Woman’s Suffrage busi-
ness is going to break a link of this golden
chain, and if it does, we’ll all go to the
dickens together.”
	“Well” I replied cheerfully, “so long as
we go together it will be all right. There
is nothing one-sided about that. Now I’ve
got your wife’s and daughter’s signature,
am I going to have yours?”
	“I suppose so,” he replied as meekly as
need be. This done, he started again
on his subject, and I left him in the midst
of a sublime syllogism on the unity of the
male and female elements which ended,
I can’t tell where or how.
	Richard Benjamin Singleman, bachelor
aged fifty-seven, next claimed my attention.
He lives on the corner of Big-bug and Lit-
tle-fellow Streets with his aged and widow-
ed mother, the meekest little woman in the
world, as his housekeeper. In response to
my question she simply said, “Ask Dicky
Ben—” In reply to my question as to
where I should find that interesting crea-
ture, she said, “In the back yard.”
	I found him in the act of filling his
buckets with food for his pigs. I told him
I had a paper for him to sign.
	“All right,” he said, come with me out
to the pig-pen and be tellin’ me ‘bout it
while I work.”
	I followed his denim clad form, bent un-
der its heavy load down the narrow path
leading to the odorous abode of that much
despised but useful animal talking a “blue
streak” the whole time, with the following
effect.
	Having emptied his buckets to the wait-
ing, grunting quadrupeds, he set them down
planted his hobnailed shoes firmly on the
ground, placed his arms akimbo, and looked
me squarely in the face from under his
shaggy, grizzled eyebrows.
	“Wall, you see, missis,” he began with
emphasis, “Such fellers as me an’t sposed
to have an opinion on these here subjects,
but we’ve got ’em all the same. And my
’pinion is this. I find it mighty hard to
keep up my end of the neck yoke, as tis,
and I would’nt have no kind of show if the
women-folk get to be boss entirely. For
that reason, to save myself from bein’ com-
pletely squelched, I’m opposed to women
bein’ policemen and poll-tax collectors.”
Seeing me in the act of beginning a remark
he said hastily—
		[Continued on page 275.]


