[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: THE OLD AND NEW YEAR. | Author: Unknown]

THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.
	
	THE year is nearing its close, and brings
with its departing days thoughts of what
has taken place, or perchance of what might
have been happier times, had one only
realized the importance of the actual present.
Are we better for the experience gained?
We are apt to ask ourselves. Have we
materially improved in excellence in any
one virtue? Are we more charitable, or
 more sympathetic? Have we reached out
and broadened our sphere of action? What
have we done for the betterment of human-
ity? Every individual person who is
actuated by correct motives in any degree,
must naturally pause and consider as the 
year grows old, some one or more of these
natural individual questions.
	Looking at the dear old world as it is
(for after all it is a good world made beauti-
ful for the human race) one cannot help be-
ing meditative and contemplating seriously
life in its various phases, as one after an-
other the years roll on filling up the period
of mother Earth's great age; and noting the
many great changes in material things
that from time to time make the sum of pro-
gress far beyond the general expectation, 
though scarcely realizing the ideal of those,
who see far into the future. The little
that one alone can do seems too insignificent
to be considered, in contrast with what is 
going on daily, the world over, and what is
expected of the mass of mankind. And 
yet each one adds something, if it be only
a deed of kindness, a word of encourage-
ment to the desolate, a prayer for the sor-
rowing; any sweetness to the bitter
cup which many fellow-mortals have dealt
out to them in overflowing draughts. The 
brave heart, the generous soul, helps by its
very courage to stimulate another. It is 
not all in giving, there are other expres-
sions of one’s goodness besides the bestowal
of gifts, be they ever so acceptably offered.
	In this matter of fact age it is barely
possible we lay too much stress upon
material things; we have come to consider
money or its equivalent, necessary to hap-
piness, and yet our Savior said, “take no
thought for the morrow.” “Consider the
lilies of the field” etc. There are many
who will say, we must not take this in its
literal meaning; but is it not true that man-
kind at the present are passing through
what must inevitably be called “the mon-
ey age," the greed for money is really so
decidedly uppermost. So far as money
serves a wise purpose, and is not the master
instead of the servant, it may be well, but
when it takes the place of all sentiment,

[column 2]
when it is worshipped, then is the world in
danger of bankruptcy of all that is best for
humanity. Conscience, purity, upright-
ness, virtue, true love, reverence for the
highest and most sacred things, all those
are, in many instances, lost sight of in the
race for gold and some saving principle
must needs be brought to bear, to turn the
tide, and save the world from ruin that to
the highly spiritual mind seems imminent.
	It is good that time is marked off in
periods, that there is an old and a new year,
when a portion of the people will stop and
think of the past and the future. It is
glorious to have such days as Christmas and
New Year’s, when one thinks of “peace
and goodwill,” and when there is a greater
flow of love in human hearts, and some-
times forgiveness of each other,and reconcilia-
tions and memories come back that make
us tender and devotional.
	It may be possible there is too much feast-
ing and merriment, and too little that is
elevating in tone and character. Music
especially, sublime and sacred music, seems
always the proper expression of the deepest
and most reverential emotions of the soul;
the nearest akin to the divine element in
one’s nature, ,and yet how little of it one
hears nowadays on such occasions. The
Psalmist said, “A song of praise is a prayer
unto the Lord.” Long ago in the homes
of the people hymns were sung at prayer
time, they were a part of the family wor-
ship morning and evening. In how many
homes is that good old custom observed
now? Very few perhaps, but it has for the
most part gone out of fashion.
	During this year just past think of the
desolation and destruction made by cruel
war—nation against nation. And the
many terrible calamities that have befallen
people, and cities and islands made desolate
have we not here in Zion in the vales of the
mountains, reason to be grateful to our
Father in Heaven for his protecting care
that has been over us?
	In the New Year about to dawn the
people of Utah anticipate a great change
from the limited conditions of a Territory to
Statehood and it is the proud hope of every
true citizen that wisdom from above may
guide those who have been delegated to
frame the new constitution and that the
whole people men and women alike may
thereafter enjoy the full rights and privileges
of citizenship.


