[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: CHRISTMAS IN AN ENGLISH VILLAGE. | Author: Unknown]

	CHRISTMAS IN AN ENGLISH VILLAGE.

	IT was Christmas eve in a small manu-
facturing village in England early in 18—
and preparations for the usually gay
festivities were going forward; young men
and women were arranging the mistletoe and
holly in the prosperous homes of the work-
ing people, and in many of the cottages,
beer had been brewed by the prudent
housewives, who took care “the master”
should drink his good ale at home, instead
of joining his comrades at the village inn.
Everywhere it was plain to be seen that
the yearly Xmas festival was drawing nigh;
the one little Church ivy-covered outside
was profusely decorated within, and al-
ready the choristers dressed in their best
were wending their way thither to rehearse
the sublime choruses. 
	Not far from the church in one of the
most pretentious houses the village could
boast, there was bustle and confusion; the
Doctor’s gig stood by the gateway, and the
cottagers looked anxiously up and down,and

[Column 2]
inquired of each passer by, whether there
was any tidings yet from Mrs. Barton, for
the village folks were all “agate” to hear
the news; and each one wanted to be first
to carry the glad message if such it should
be (for the master was a great favorite, he’d
been “born among’em” they often said to
each other,) and there were no doubts in
their minds as to the object of Dr. Went-
worth’s visit.
	The evening grew late and still no word
came, the doors were shut, for it was bit-
ter cold, and there was sharp frost in the
air; the music from the Church rang out
clear and full of pathos;—and the village
children heeding not the cold, could be seen
in groups going here and there singing
snatches of Christmas melodies as they
threw from door to door sprays of holly.
When the hilarity had ceased and quiet
was settling down and while the Christmas
bells were ringing joyfully, nurse
Goodman came down the oaken staircase
in her soft slippers, her face beaming with
pride, though tears were on her cheeks, and
opening the door of the great dining room,
where the master sat by the open fire, un-
easy and restless, announced ere entering
the room “ye may’n come up n’ow Maister
Barton as quick as ye like, ye’ve a fine son
born to the tune o’ the Xmas bells, and he’ll
be mighty lucky, I’m sure, for he roared as
we could na hear the bells ring.”
	Many a good woman peeped out inquir-
ingly from behind her bedroom curtain as
the Doctor’s gig rattled over the frozen
ground, long after midnight, but at the
first gray dawn of morning the news that
an heir was born to Master Barton, flew
like wildfire from house to house. And
such a Christmas there had never been since
old Maister Barton’s time so the villagers
one and all declared. 
	The women were not fond of the young
mistress, she was’nt their sort, “young
master should have wed one of the girls
from hereabouts, and not gone off to Bristol
for a stuck-up young woman, I doubt me
she’ll put fine notions into the lad’s head
when he grows up” said Mrs. Gentry to
her neighbor Janet Graham, after her first
visit to see the baby.
	“Now don’t be prophecyin evil to the lad, 
he’s to be Christened tomorrow, and Lizzie
tells me, the boy’s robe is two yards and a
half long, and the lace is old Venetian, and
his head is so thick covered with golden
curls, that Mrs. Barton told the nurse he
need’nt wear caps, (though they're all the
finest lace,) but nurse would’nt hear to it,
and our Lizzie says, as how Mrs. Barton
made herself sick a cryin and a frettin
about the caps.” Lizzie was Mrs. Graham’s
daughter, and a sort of lady’s maid of all
work to Mrs. Barton, and she was never
tired of repeating to her mother what her
mistress said and did, and Janet, as her
mother was always called, told everything
to Mrs. Gentry (with whom she never
agreed about anything however) for she had
a kind heart, and Mrs. Gentry was envious,
that young Barton had not taken to her
daughter Miriam, to whom he paid “great
attentions,” as she repeated over and over

[Column 3]
again till the whole village gossipped about
it; and “Miriam was so upset,’’ she declared,
“that she went off to her uncle’s, so’s no-
body should see she was cut up about the
marriage.” The truth was, she went away
until the gossip should die out, for she was
a sensible young woman, and young Barton
had really given her to understand what he
meant by, “the attentions,” Mrs. Gentry
talked of so much.
	“Well-a-day whoever heard the like” said
Mrs. Graham to Lizzie as the girl repeated
to her mother the scene at the Barton’s the
night before the Christening, on her visit
home afterwards. “Little you tho’t sittin
there in the Church so solemn-like, what a
fuss our young mistress had been making
with the master the night afore. Nurse
Goodman told the whole thing to me, she
would’nt think of his even having his fath-
er’s name as if Charles wasn’t a grand name,
when kings have borne it, as Master told
her; but no he must be called for her grand-
father the Admiral, and she had her way,
but I do think its a pretty name Shirley—
and nurse said as how, the master wanted
Miriam Gentry to be the child’s godmother,
and the mistress flew into a passion directly,
and she said, “Yes I’ve heard of your at-
tentions to that young woman, and a nice
scandal ’twould be if she were to be god-
mother, no, I’ve sent for Aunt Grace, and
she’ll be here presenlty,” and sure enough,
nurse said, just then the door bell rang, and
before Mrs. Barton had quieted down, Miss
Holton (Aunt Grace as she called her) had
her things off, and was in the room, and
such a flurry there was; but Mr. Barton
was as sober as a Judge, and never a word
did he say, so she had it all her own way,
and Master has scarcely spoken a syllable
in the house since."
	“And to think how fine and pleased we
all were and wishing them joy like that, and
she to think my Miriam not good enough
for godmother to the boy; (he’s a reg’lar
beauty for all that) and I doubt me he’ll
be as proud as a peacock, and lord it over
the workin men when he steps in his
father’s shoes.” replied Mrs. Gentry to
Janet Graham when she heard what Liz-
zie had told her mother, rehearsed to her as
soon as Janet could get time to run in; and
half the village knew the story before ’twas
a week old.
	Time went on, and the village prospered,
until it was quite a town, and Mr. Barton
who was the successor of his father and the
overseer at the Mills, grew rich, with one
invention and another, and his wife was as
haughty, as he was amiable; and as much
disliked as he was beloved. One more son
had been born to them, nine years after the
first, but he was a delicate boy, while
Shirley was strong and manly, and a greater
favorite than even his father had been.
Miriam Gentry remained single, and was
the boy’s first teacher,and strangely enough
as he grew up, he clung to her as his ideal;
which vexed his mother beyond expression;
and she contrived by all means in her pow-
er to keep Shirley from her, which only made
matters worse; Miriam had a younger sister
Charlotte who was a sort of musical genius,


[column 1]
a singer and could play the violin; and
Shirley would steal away and spend his
evenings there, singing and playing on the
flute to Lottie's violin while the stately
Miriam accompanied them on the piano.
	“He is only a boy and will outgrow this
childish love for girls so much older than
himself, I have no fears, besides he must
go to college, we can afford it.” said his
father on one occasion when Mrs. Barton
had been urging him to take some positive
measures to stop these visits.
	Mrs. Barton made up her mind that
Shirley should go at once, and set about the 
preparations; Mr. Barton was quite willing
for he felt the boy was far advanced in his
studies, a fine scholar all his teachers said, 
but knew he must undergo some discipline
beforehand, and it was finally decided he
should go to Bristol, his mother's native
City, and remain there a year under the
tutelage of a learned Professor, whom his
mother had known.
	The boy went away at last willingly;
though he had protested against going, and
had made more ado about leaving Miriam
than his own father and mother (of which
his mother was in blissful ignorance) but
his father guessed from hints dropped by
the elder Gentry, who was one of his
trusted men. The first few weeks Shirley
studied diligently and Professor Bradley
wrote glowing accounts of his young pupil
to the parents at M— but later on he in-
formed them the boy was passionately fond
of the sea, that his lessons were perfectly
learned, he had such a wonderful memory,
but his thoughts seemed far away. he was
absent-minded, and waking or dreaming it
was always the sea.
	“It is born in him and he can't help it;
undoubtedly Laura you’ve filled his head
with nursery tales of your grandfather, the
old Admiral, and you’ve hung those marine
views in every room in the house, to im-
press him with the greatness of your ances-
try; however I’ll write to Bradley to hur-
ry him off to the university, and he’ll have
something else to do than dream by the sea-
shore, his companions will cure him of idle
day-dreams,” said his father after reading
the Professor’s letter.
	“I’m sure Charles you blame me for all
the boy’s faults, its a great pity you hadn’t
married the Gentry girl, she’s no doubt
keeping herself single for you; it isn’t
enough to have won your affections,  but
she’s tried her coquetry on my boy to my
sorrow.”
	“This is too serious an accusation to
be passed over silently,” replied the hus-
band, “never mention Miriam Gentry’s
name again, I forbid it,” and Mr. Barton
walked off to his office, the first time since
his marriage, angry and in sullen silence.
	It was true he had admired Miriam as a 
sort of village sweetheart and let her know
it too before he met Laura Otway, but it
had not the ardor of true love; he had often
felt sorry that Miriam didn’t marry, but he
did not know (as men seldom ever do) that
she could never give herself to any other
man: such is woman’s love when once
given to her true mate, and yet Miriam had
never told of her constancy, it could only
be guessed by the magician's art, who un-
locks love’s secret cabinet and whispers
softly to the winds at night-time.
	Mrs. Barton fretted the live-long day,
she loved her husband, notwithstanding her
temper, and was proudly ambitious for her
son:—she wanted him to be a man of learn-
ing, high in the world’s favor; she cared lit-

[column 2]
tle for the true affection of the village
people, she seldom mingled with them; at
intervals she gave them out-door parties but
rarely appeared upon the scene herself.
Mr. Barton felt this keenly, for he loved the
people, he knew they were his true friends,
honest and loyal.
	Gradually the lives of the husband and
wife grew apart, there was no serious quar-
rel, she was unbearably sarcastic, and he
took her sharp sayings in dumb silence, love
to him had received a fatal wound.
	Finally a heavier blow fell upon the
household than the division between hus-
band and wife. Just when the father had
been planning in his mind what changes
might take place at Shirley's vacation, a
letter from the Professor came bringing the
sad news that Shirley had disappeared, “he
has taken nothing with him, and we have
had every one of his old haunts searched,
but no trace of him can be found, we are
ourselves deeply afflicted, for he has greatly
endeared himself to us and was most
respectful and affectionate to us all, but our
hearts are much more deeply grieved for
yourself and his poor mother;” so the letter
read.
	The clerk in the office looked up as he
heard the sobs of this great strong-minded
man, his master, when he read the letter,
but Mr. Barton took no notice, “shut the
office at the usual hour, say I have gone
home, I shall not come back today,” he said
as he rose abruptly the open letter in his
hand. “You have bad news, Mr. Barton,
I am sorry, believe me, can I do anything
for you? Can I help you, shall I call a cab?
you look so broken up,” said the kind-
hearted clerk.
	“No, I will walk, the air will do me good,
besides I can think better.” Yes he had
need to think, how could he tell the lad’s
mother, she would swoon perhaps; he could
not bear to go home, he walked away into 
the fields, he remembered the sayings of
Shirley’s boyhood, “Papa I shall go to sea,
and be a great Captain, and have ships of
my own, and build pretty cottages for the
sailors,” and he would sing of the ocean,
the great bounding, tossing, foaming
ocean.
	The twilight came on while he strolled
about the fields, and when he turned home-
ward the lights were streaming from the
cottage windows. “I must go in and tell
Laura, our boy has runaway” he said to
himself, and he hastened as one does, bent
on a hateful errand, lest he should not have
the courage if he loitered. Supper was
ready and Laura and little Richard were
waiting his coming—he knew he could not
eat, but Laura must have her tea, and he
took a cup, but his hand shook, and his
wife said, noticing his manner, “Are you
ill Charles?” “No, only upset, I shall
soon be better.” Has there been a distur-
bance at the mills, those men grow restless
towards pay day, I’ve noticed?” “Nothing
has gone wrong at the mills, I’ve had a let-
ter from Bristol, about Shirley.” “Has
he gone wrong, tell me the worst,” said
Mrs. Barton excitedly. “I can’t tell you, I
don’t know myself” and he handed her the
letter; but she did not faint, or even weep
as she read on “this is the old story over
again” she said, “he’s gone to sea undoubt-
edly, he knew we would not consent, and
so he’s gone without it. We shall hear
from him soon, when he is far away, so we
cannot bring him back, he will take no
harm, he was born to the music of the Xmas
bells; rather a sea Captain than the over-

[column 3]
seer of these humdrum mills.” Mr. Barton,
took Richard in his arms, as though for
comfort, such a frail child, and said, “we’ll
go up stairs Mrs. Barton, I must answer
this letter tonight,” and without more ado
they left the supper room.
	Mr. Barton wrote to the shipping mer-
chants at Bristol for particulars of the ship’s
crew on board the vessels that had sailed
about that time; and to the Professor to spare
no means to find out whither his boy had
gone; hearing nothing satisfactory he set
off himself for Bristol making diligent
search but all in vain.
	Christmas came but out of respect to Mr.
Barton the villagers refrained from any
public demonstrations; and indeed, the
young man’s fate was truly lamented; and
many a tear fell, whenever his name was
spoken. Even Mrs. Barton began to des-
pond as time wore on, and no news came of
her darling boy; she had been hopeful at
first, but as day after day she watched and
waited she grew pale, and sleepless, and 
finally so melancholy that Dr. Wentworth
advised the sea shore, and Mr. Barton con-
sented to her going. “I shall be nearer if
he comes back, and more likely to hear
something and you shall know im-
mediately,” she said to her husband the
morning of her departure; Aunt Grace had
come to travel with her, as Mr. Barton
could not leave his business just then.
	“I knew how ’twould be, I always said
her pride would have a fall,” said old Mrs.
Gentry when she heard Mrs. Barton had
gone, “he’ll never come back to her, he’s
dead most like, and that boy Richard will
never live to be a man, she’s punished severe
enough for looking down on them as made
their money for em.”
	“Now Bessie that’s very wrong,” said
her husband, “she’s not punished for that,
better folks nor her are chastened, what does
the Bible say Bessie, read about Job, how
he was afflicted, mind don’t go agin scrip-
tur. There’s not a better man livin than
Charlie Barton, I’ve known him since he
were a weelad, and as for Shirley you can’t
say there was any evil in him.”
	“No dad I dont say anything about 
Shirley, but its the stuck-up Bristol woman,
but she’ll suffer for’t ‘pride must have a fall’
that’s scripture ain’t it dad?”
	“Not exactly Bessie, but don’t rejoice in
anybody’s trouble, its wrong, its cruel, be-
sides you know how Miriam has always felt
about Shirley, she’s sure he’ll come back
sometime.”
	“Well yes maybe and Lottie will be mar-
ried and gone, and she set such store by
him, and I don’t see why I should be sorry
for ’em, they’ve brung me no end o’trouble,
what with Miriam bein in love with
Charlie, as she’ll never git over it, and Lot-
tie with Shirley, I’m the one as is to be
pitied.”
	“Lottie’s love weren’t very deep I should
think when she’s sweet on Jim Graham
a’ready, and you talkin of her marryin
soon yoursel.”
	“I’m glad if she do marry him and done
with’t I don’t want another old maid in the
family.”
	“Better have old maids than had hus-
bands for our girls; but I’ve no objections
to Jim Graham, he’s a fine lad and a good-
ish family, and we know’em for what they
are, they’ll have my consent when they’re
ready.”
	It was hard for Mrs. Gentry to forgive,
she was an honest, upright woman but she
was not fond of “bettermost people,” un-


[Column 1]
less they were very amiable. As for Shirley
he had never once thought of loving Lottie:
but he adored her sister, who was really
old enough to be his mother; of marriage
however, he had not even dreamed.
	Three long years had gone by and no
news of Shirley Barton, of all the ships
that had sailed out of Bristol most of them
had come back heavy laden and gone out
again, but still his mother hoped on, she
had grown stronger and returned to her
home at M—and though a sort of gloom
pervaded the place, at Christmas and holi-
day times, yet usually cheerfulness pre-
vailed and the Bartons were scarce ever 
without visitors from Bristol.
	It was at Christinas time three years and
more after Shirley’s absence, and the Bar-
ton homestead was filled with Bristol
people, mostly young folks, relatives and
friends, who were desirous of seeing a
Xmas festival in a village and Mr. and Mrs.
Barton had made preparations to have as
many of the people from the mills as could
be accommodated. The dinner was to be at
five, but as the day was cloudy, lamps were
lighted early, and gaiety seemed to reign
within and without. The Gentrys and
Grahams were there, and many others from
the mills; Mrs. Barton seemed herself
again, so old Dr. Wentworth remarked to
Miriam, to whom of late he had been de-
voted; but Miriam and Mr. Barton both
seemed restless. The dinner was over and
toasts were being given, but it was awk-
ward; the guests all seemed not to know
exactly what was most fitting to propose, for
each one present realized the absence of the
long-lost son, who would have been the
life of the company; in fact the sorrow on
his account had been general.
	Dr. Wentworth lifted his glass and was
about to speak, he had made up his mind to
propose a toast for the absent son—when the
boy himself, alive and well, appeared upou
the scene; fresh and blooming in a mid-
shipman’s costume, his sailor hat in hand,
the golden curls tossed back, and collar
thrown open, displaying a neck bronzed with
sun and wind. All eyes were fixed upon
him, and many a glass dropped from the
hands that held them shivering to atoms,
but Dr. Wentworth came to the rescue,
(for not a word had been spoken it was like
the dead come back again) “here’s to the
long lost lad returned to gladden hearts
and home: speak Shirley to your mother
and father." Coming out of the darkness
into the brilliant light, Shirley was dazed
and he was totally unprepared for the scene
he had burst in upon; he come in unan-
nounced to surprise the family, thinking it
would be only a small party, though he had
noticed the brilliant lights, but when he
saw the villagers, many whom he had
known intimately, he was bewildered and
speechless; he grasped the situation, how-
ever, and graciously withdrew followed by
his father, mother and Richard. Very lit-
tle was said, the company dispersed, the
guests retired to their apartments, and
Shirley who was much in need of rest but
could not sleep, sat long by the dusky fire-
light when all the lamps were out, talk-
ing of his adventures to the eager listeners.
	He had not intended to go to sea, not
then, he said, but he loved to see the ships
sail out and talk to the sailors, he was down
at the wharf, and had been beguiled into
one of the many drinking places, where a
crowd of fine, strong men were taking grog, 
before going on board a great whaling ves-
el, that was at anchor close by; he wanted

[Column 2]
to see them off, he drank with one of the
lads, a fine young fellow, about his own
age; and then went on board with him in-
tending to get ashore again very soon, but
he fell asleep, and when he awoke, all was
dark, and he could not recall where he was,
or how he came to be in such a strange
place: for he could feel the motion of the
vessel and grew dizzy when he tried to rise.
	“What I endured for the first few days on
board that vessel can never be told, the re-
morse of conscience, the mortification, the
despair; many times I prayed to die, I felt
I could never meet my father, or mother,
or any of my former friends again. We
had a fine Captain, he blamed the young
man, Ralph Rathburn, for bringing me on
board, until, I was so sorry for Ralph that
I began to be reconciled to my fate. He
mourned for me too, poor fellow, and he
tried to make up for it in every way pos-
sible. He taught me how to do my work
and I had the tact and skill necessary to get
on. We were always good friends, and no
matter where we put ashore, he would show
me around and entertain me after the true
sailor style. And sailors have good hearts
after all even though their ways are rough,
their manners uncouth, and their use of the
King’s English is beyond description.
There were many unpleasant experiences
for a fellow brought up tenderly as I had
been, but Captain Lamb noticed this and
gave me the easiest places and, as you see,
I improved so rapidly, and displayed so
much courage, and such an adventurous
spirit at times, that he promoted me, when
our mate (who was not over strong at the
beginning of the voyage) was quite unable
to keep on duty; and I cannot say but my
great grandfather having been an Admiral
in His Majesty’s service had something to
do with it.”
	The festivities on the day following
Shirley’s return were on the most magnifi-
cent plan ever known in M—and the
whole village was in a state of joyful ex-
citement. The very garb he wore was a
decided attraction to the young people, we
who live in this day and in an inland
country know comparatively little of how the
sailor dress fascinates people especially the
young. Scores of girls fell in love with
Shirley Barton, and he was jovial and
courteous with them all, but there were
three who were so much enamored of him
that they watched with envy and jealousy
the attentions he bestowed on others and
especially one, who as they put it, “couldn’t
compare with those in his own vicinity.”
She was neither beautiful, nor yet attractive
to her own sex, (who were for the most
part envious of her) notwithstanding her
plain appearance and her poverty, yet the
young men admired her, she could talk
well, dance well, and her voice was
singularly pathetic.
	“Think of Shirley Barton being en-
gaged to Miss Morton and he has only
seen her twice,” said spiteful Susan Del-
more to her two friends Octavia Willis and
Eugenia Somers, the trio they were called,
all well to do, and girls of style and the tip
top of society in M. they boasted on oc-
casions that their fathers were not in Mr.
Barton’s employ, but in business, and their
mothers had never worked for their living
not even as governesses, in fact they were
well connected as the world goes.
	But be this as it may, Shirley fell in love
at first sight with Miss Morton; his mother
fretted and fumed, but all to no purpose,
his father said nothing, but allowed him to

[Column 3]
do as he pleased. Finally when it became
apparent that the young man was deter-
mined to marry the girl of his choice, if he
could persuade her, which was not such an
easy matter, and after Mrs. Barton had used
her utmost endeavors to dissuade him from
it, and implored his father to forbid the
marriage, (which she declared was partly
due to the interference of Miriam Gentry)
“who seemed ever her evil genius,” she
said, she consoled herself with thinking it
would keep him at home, and she took the
first opportunity to advise him to bring Miss
Morton to the house. By much persausion
and entreaty she at last consented to “beard
the lioness,” so to speak for she was in
mortal dread of Mrs. Barton.
	Once within the Barton home Shirley
never left her for a moment, lest his mother
should frighten her away, for she was as
timid as a bird, and almost as fragile. Mrs.
Barton looked her over and inquired
minutely into her pedigree, every now and
then, saying “Humph so he was your
uncle, she was your grandmother,” with
anything but an approving manner.
	After the visit of Miss Morton, Mrs. Bar-
ton was more obstinate about the marriage,
"she has no sort of family reputation to fall
back upon, she is only a village girl for all
her fine manners and attainments; I wish
Shirley you would give up this whim, you
will soon tire of those soulful eyes, and the
girl is really not of good family, go to
Bristol and prepare for college under Profes-
sor Bradley, he will take you back again,
you may marry among the best, your
father’s wealth is an inducement for any
girl and you will surely regret it if you take
this child, without either money or ances-
try.” “But Mamma she is lovely, she sings
like an angel,” said Richard, “I love her
more now than Shirley, I wish I could mar-
ry Eleanor myself no one should hinder
me.” “Who told you her name Richard?”
enquired Shirley. “She told me, and said
could call her sister and I will in spite of
Mamma who dislikes her and she knows it,
besides she’s not so much in love with
Shirley, its only his imperious manner, and
she hopes to win him over to love home and
the country and leave off sea-faring which
will make him coarse, and wean him from
those who love him so devotedly.” “O, is
this all little man,” said Shirley, “we shall
see what this young woman can do anon.
I am not jealous of my little brother but no
one else must interfere. I must be the sole
possessor of this lovely village maiden, who
is without anything to recommend her, save
her innocence and purity.”
	And they were married within three
months at the little church in E—where
Eleanor Morton’s parents were born and
had died. Mrs. Barton would not con-
descend to witness the ceremony though
the young people came home as soon as the
wedding was over.
	One year of love’s sweet young dream;
and of intense sorrow too for the bride, and
she fled from the home that was unbearable
to her sensitive nature, to Miriam Gentry
for protection. She would not go to her
grandma, to burden her with sorrow, father
and mother were both dead, she had not
brother or sister; Mrs. Barton had made
her life unendurable; she had professed
everything and fulfilled nothing. “Such a
child, she can never be really a wife or a
mother.” Richard pined for her society al-
most as much as Shirley himself—“Let her
be ’ said Mrs. Barton “she’ll come back of
		[Continued on Page 221.]


