[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: REPORT TO CONVENTION FEBRUARY 1894 | Author: Unknown]

REPORT TO CONVENTION FEBRUARY 1894
   
	THE year 1893 was so much of it de-
voted to the Columbian Exposition that
there is less to report of actual suffrage
work. But we might truthfully say that
the entire tendency of all that was accom-
plished was in that direction. Utah may
be justly proud (among other things) of her
silk exhibit made in the Woman’s Building
at Jackson Park. This industry per-
manently established will help women in
the future to become self-supporting, and
will also be remunerative to the territory as
well as to the producer. Recently the com-
-mittee of women, who prepared the silk
exhibit for the World’s Fair, formulated a
petition and had it presented to the Leg-
slative Assembly (now in session) asking
for a bounty on cocoons, and a bill has also
been introduced urging the granting of the
same, the ladies having appeared before
committees where they had the opportunity
of speaking upon the matter as a woman’s
measure, which practically illustrates the
need of representation by means of votes as
well as influence.
	The interest taken by the women of the
territory in the work of the present Legisla-
ture clearly proves that they are becoming
conscious of the needs of the hour. In
several places the W. S. A. officers have
called a special meeting to consider ob-
jectionable bills, and have prepared and
adopted resolutions protesting against exces-
sive taxation and other things of which
they disapprove This public expression
of opinion shows that women are fully
awakened to the injustice of being governed
without their consent, and taxed without
representation.
	In consequence of the financial depres-
sion caused by the depreciation of silver
and subsequent closing of silver mines in
this Western country, women citizens in
Salt Lake City, called a mass meeting,
which was held July 27th, and prepared a
memorial to Congress and had it numerously
signed, setting forth the facts in an able
manner, and asking for favorable legisla-
tion on the silver question; the addresses
were patriotic and telling. This meeting,
which was crowded to overflowing, was in-
directly a step towards suffrage, for many
of those present realized how much more
potent the effort would have been had these
earnest women been voters. The foremost
women of the movement had never given
the question of the ballot any serious
thought.
	The women of Utah are powerless to a
certain extent, and cannot have the same
enthusiasm in the suffrage cause, knowing
that a law of Congress took away the fran-
chise, and therefore the Legislature, how-
ever willing, cannot restore it until Con-
gress revokes the act or Utah becomes a
state.
	The present Legislature has presented a
bill proposing that one or more women
(a minority) shall be appointed on boards of
education, insane asylums and reform in- 
stitutions. The bill passed the House and
is still pending in the council.
	October 5th the annual convention of the
W. S. A. of Utah and election of officers
was held, and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, the
very able and efficient President, resigned
on account of ill health. Mrs. E. B. Wells
was unanimously elected by ballot to fill the
vacancy. Mrs. Wells offered a resolution

[column 2]
to the effect that because of Mrs. Kimball’s
faithful and diligent labors in the interest
of the association, she should be made
Honorary President for life; which was car-
ried by the entire assembly.
	In August the Utah Woman’s Press
Club and the Utah W. S. A. gave a lawn
party, at which time (as on many other
occasions) the whole tendency was in favor
of suffrage. Hon. George Q. Cannon, for
many years delegate to Congress from this
territory, delivered an eloquent and forcible
address on the subject.
	An assembly of women under the
auspices of the Territorial W. S. A. was
held February 3, 1894, and was very largely
attended by both men and women; the ob-
ject being to awaken an interest on the
question under consideration and give to
passive and indifferent people some sound
and wholesome reasons for the faith and
hope of the believers in woman suffrage.
Logical and vigorous speeches were made
by both men and women, Hon. John E.
Booth, of the present Legislative Assembly,
making the principal address.
	We are very much blessed here in having
a woman’s newspaper in which minutes of
meetings of the W. S. A. in all parts of
the territory appear from time to time, and
there is always a woman suffrage depart-
ment especially devoted to information on
this important subject. The Deseret Eve-
ning News and Salt Lake Herald (the last a
morning paper) (dalies) are always willing
to publish news of importance for the suf-
frage association and are on the right side
of the question. Besides these city papers
there are a dozen or more newspapers,
weeklies and semi-weeklies, in the several
counties, willing to publish any matter
favorable to the cause. So as far as press
notices go, we are well supported. Our
new Press Committee this year are young
women—Miss Mary M. Wells, chairman—
and we feel confident of their ability to do
good work in this direction.
	I have tried to ascertain how large a pro-
portion of the taxes in the territory are paid
by women, but have only succeeded in
gathering reliable information from one
county, where it is stated 45 per cent, of
the tax is paid by women who own their
own homes or are property holders, yet
have no vote or voice in controlling mat-
ters pertaining thereto.
	The sixteen counties where auxiliary as-
sociations have been organized, are general-
ly holding regular meetings and doing good
work; the advice given them this year has
been to ask permission to meet with the
county boards of education and get practical
ideas and knowledge of the methods of
action, so as to become familiar with the
rules and regulations of procedure in such
work, as in all probability the positions on
school boards will be the first offices to
which women will be elected when the
franchise is extended to them.
	Our semi-annual convention will be held
in April, at which time we hope to be able
to give such instruction and information as
may be received from the general conven-
tion at Washington. We have great
anticipation for the present year, realizing
as we do, most emphatically, that whether
women are ready or not for the ballot,
universal suffrage will soon be accorded to
the women of this nation; and it behooves
all who have the matter at heart to be
diligent in season and out of season, to
create a public sentiment favorable to wise
action in the premises, when the long looked

[column 3]
for opportunity shall arrive. Success to
the honest endeavors of all who are laboring
with zeal and enthusiasm in the cause so
dear to the heart of humanity.
	Respectfully submitted,
