[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: HE COMETH NOT. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

HE COMETH NOT.

	[Continued From Page 219.]
her own accord, but if you go after her
Shirley coaxing her she’ll be trying the
same thing again doubtless,” Richard was
positively forbidden to go, but Mr. Barton
advised Shirley to take a house separate
from his mother, as she would never con-
sent to any of the family, visiting Miriam
Gentry. ‘‘Poor little woman” said the
kind-hearted man, she needs sympathy now
and Miriam is overflowing with kindness
and love, she is the very person to whom
one can go with trouble. The only one
my boy who never gave you up when you
were away so long.”
	Eleanor would not write to Shirley, he
had tried to defend his mother to his wife,
and had made matters worse, and so the
young wife waited, weeping and hysterical.
	‘‘A pretty scandal this will make” said
Mrs. Gentry to Miriam “taking in Shirley’s
wife, I have no patience with such non-
sense.” “Hush mother for pity’s sake,”
said Miriam, “she will hear you, her ears
are so quick to catch a sound,” but it was
already too late, she had heard and felt the
sting; and trembling in every limb and
weak from excessive grief, she put on her
hat and cloak disguising herself as much
as possible went down the garden walk and
was away upon the high road, long before
any one knew she had left the house.
Miriam was not aware of it until she went
into the room with a dainty lunch to try
and tempt her appetite. When she saw
the room deserted she felt positive why she
had fled, but without one word put on her
own things to try and find her. The search
was vain and she sent her little brother
with a message to Shirley but Mrs. Barton
intercepted the note, and though the young 
husband was nearly distracted, the mother
did not relent. When Miriam found
Shirley took no notice of her message and
did not come, she waited for the dawn of
day and commenced inquiries on her own
account, before noon Mr. Barton had heard
that Eleanor had gone away alone no one
knew whither. For the first time in his
life Shirley was severely reprimanded by
his father, and Mrs. Barton who heard the
stinging rebuke, said placidly, “She’s gone
to her grandma whom she adores more than
any one in all the world.” Before she
could say more Shirley had left the house
forever. I will find her dead or alive he
soliloquized why have I been so foolish,
Miriam must know I’m going in search of
her, and he dashed off a note in pencil as he
walked towards the station and mailed it to
Miriam expressing the wildest love for his
wife and the strongest friendship and grati-
tude to herself.
	Young Mrs. Barton had taken a night
train for Bristol and gone to that large city
instead of going home, in fact she could not
go direct, not even by coach, she had
thought of walking but was too weak to
undertake it, and the idea of self-destruc-
tion had never entered her mind. She was
not without money and had brought with
her all her jewelry. Shirley went to Bris-
tol, too and from one inn to another for he


[column 1]
felt she would not tell her grandma of her
unhappiness as she had warned her against
marrying a young man fond of the seas.
	Shirley found his wife at last, found her
in the great seaport, Bristol, he had searched
one whole week, and left no method un-
tried, she was suffering greatly from over
anxiety and worry and a Doctor had been
called by the woman in whose house she
had taken lodgings. Shirley was wild
with joy, and yet tortured with mental
pain, lest serious harm would come to her
after all; she scarcely realized how matters
stood so unstrung were her nerves, and so
over excited her brain. “Send for her
mother,” the physician had said when call-
ed in; and the mistress of the house had
answered, “she has no mother, but she is
married, see she wears a ring.” 
	“Then call her husband here im-
mediately,” was his reply, but before many
hours had elapsed he came. 
	Shirley dispatched a note to Miriam
Gentry, only these words “Come without
delay, Eleanor is very ill, she may die,”
signed “Shirley.” Miriam was soon there
and in charge, and very shortly after a babe
was born and the pale, sweet child-mother
called her Miriam from her birth. Eleanor
was happy now notwithstanding what she
had suffered, and recovered speedily.
Shirley was anxious to take her back to
M——but she said “No! Never! take me
to E——to my grandma now, and I will
try to be content.” So Miriam, Shirley, and
baby set off in the stage coach one cold
morning and were put down at Grandma
Morton’s door not many hours after; the
old lady’s delight was exhilarating when
she saw the happy party arrive: she had
heard nothing of the troubles of her
darling. “No more parting now, I shall
never dare lose sight of you again,” said
Shirley, when he saw the love she expressed
for her grandma; but he did not measure
his own strength correctly; Miriam believed
in him, so did Eleanor; but his resolves
were vain; he was too near the sea; his
mother reproached him with ingratitude,
and Richard was lying ill nigh unto death,
“leave Eleanor with the nurse and come to
us,” his mother wrote. But Shirley could
not, he worried was perplexed and rest-
less, “the sea will bear me away out of all
this, Miriam will look to baby and Eleanor,
I will go aboard a merchantman, a few
months voyage around the Meditterranean,
and when I return all will have settled
down to quiet." And so he sailed away for
a few months leaving Miriam in charge of
all his household treasures. Grandma was
there too and Nellie as he had endearingly
called her since her illness, she seemed
such a child, had consented to his having a
change, besides he must earn money, he
would not accept it from his father while
his mother declared that unless he returned
to M——with his wife and child he should
never have a penny with her consent, his
father had remitted sufficent to pay all ex-
penses so far and even more, but Mrs. Mor-
ton was poor and his wife must have
delicacies. And Shirley sailed away brave
true-hearted and strong intending to return
in a short time. At first all went well,
Miriam went back to M—and answered all
the numerous questions of neighbors but
Mrs. Barton would not condescend to in-
quire. Mr. Gentry informed the elder Bar-
ton his employer at the first opportunity
giving him full particulars, which he repeated 
to Richard, promising to take him to see

[column 2]
the baby and Eleanor as soon as he was well.
Richard grew worse and his mother becom-
ing really alarmed wrote to Aunt Grace at
Bristol to come; and to try to get Shirley’s
wife to allow her to bring the baby, in fact
she wanted the child; and added “do per-
suade Eleanor to give the baby to me. then
she can help herself I hear they are very
poor.” Mrs. Barton wanted possession of
the child; then to influence Shirley to return
home if possible, and she cared not what
should become of the little mother. Miss
Holton went to E——and interviewed
young Mrs. Barton, but to no purpose.
She was respectful but firm, “upon no ac-
count would I give my child into her keep-
ing, I would rather beg my bread from
door to door.” Miss Holton was amazed
when Eleanor’s grandma came in to be in-
troduced, to find her an old schoolmate,
whom she had lost sight of years before,
and many reminiscences were recalled to
each of those mature women and the day
was a pleasant one after all. When Aunt
Grace arrived at M——Richard was sinking
rapidly, but as soon as she could she told
Mrs. Barton, “Eleanor comes of a fine old
Bristol family, her grandmother was at
school with me there one of the most charm-
ing girls, married a brilliant officer, a wid-
ow now with a moderate income and as
grand as a Duchess in appearance.” “But
the child Aunt Grace, can I have her? I
shall be left childless you see, Richard can-
not live.”
	It was hard for Aunt Grace, who loved
her niece to see her in grief, but she must
speak plainly, “No Laura you never will,
have that child unless the mother should
die.”
	In a few days loneliness and gloom set-
tled down upon the Barton home; a mound
in the churchyard was all that remained of
the frail child so beloved; there was no tid-
ings of Shirley, nor of his young wife and
babe. Aunt Grace stayed on to relieve
Mrs. Barton of household cares and comfort
her, in her great affiction, and Mr Barton
plunged into his business affairs trying to
drown his sorrows.
	Years went by and but few changes came,
Eleanor lived on, some letters had come,
full of more adventures and extended
voyages at sea, but as Shirley sailed from
place to place, stopping only at seaport
towns, her letters so full of love and hope
never reached him; “He cometh not” she
repeated over and over when alone; and he
began to despair; he wrote to his mother,
telling her he was now Master of a vessel
Captain Shirley Barton asking her to give
him some news of his wife and child; but
she never even sent the message to them
and this was the last ever heard from him
direct. Long years after when little
Miriam was grown to womanhood and
Eleanor had made for herself a competence,
an honored name, though a fictitious one,
by her pen. Miriam Gentry always faith-
ful learned from Mrs. Barton, (who now that
her husband was dead, no longer feared
Miriam’s influence) that Shirley was dead.
Miriam determined to unravel the secret
which had been kept from his wife and
child, and she succeeded; by means of win-
ning the confidence of Aunt Grace now al-
most in her dotage.
	It was Christmas eve twenty years after
the date of Shirley’s return to M—— and
Miriam a confirmed old maid over forty.
Her sister Lottie had half a dozen children
and Mrs. Gentry had past away. Miriam
kept her father’s house; she had made up

[column 3]
her mind not to write to Eleanor but to go
on a visit to E—— leaving her father in
Lottie’s care to have Xmas with the
children; there was sure to be a happy party
for Mr. and Mrs. Graham and Lizzie (who
had married well) with her husband and
little ones would be there, so Miriam set off
arriving at E. the day before Xmas. As
soon as affectionate greetings were over be-
tween the two. “My Miriam has had
strange forbodings and peculiar dreams,”
said Eleanor to Miriam Gentry, “I hope
your coming is the fulfillment, I feel that
something must be pending, and I dread
any great change. my grandma’s death,
though sad for us, has left us independent,
I am going to take a long rest, perhaps go
out to India, I fancy some way that Shirley
is there.” Miriam Gentry sighed, “Why
do you sigh surely you have no news of
him or you would have written?” Miriam
scarce knew how to tell the story she had
come to unfold. Eleanor saw it in her ex-
pression, and said, “Miriam is the news
you bring good or ill, tell me qnickly?”
“Neither but very important especially so
to Miriam. Her father died years ago, and
she is the only heir to Mr. Barton’s wealth.”
“Go on” said Eleanor “I can bear all now
nothing more can come to me from him, I
always feared he would not come, it is all
over now.”
	“Yes he died true to you Eleanor and
hoped to come to you—died in far away
Bombay on Christmas eve, so young not
yet thirty and you still hoping and teaching
Miriam to love him.”
	“How do you know all this, and are you
sure? He cannot be dead, Shirley Barton
my baby’s father dead and we not know it;
so strong, and me so frail, and still alive,
through all these weary, dreary years of
mourning. I will not believe it until I
have the proof.”
	“A sad Christmas for you and Miriam but
alas life itself is sad and full of mysteries.”
	“Indeed Miriam, but there are true hearts
and noble souls and you have proven one
among a thousand, stay with me always
Miriam you loved Charles Barton and
Shirley for his sake, we will share all with
you if you will stay with us, we need you
most,” just then the younger Miriam
entered the room her golden curls and fair
brow so like Shirley’s, “O Aunt Miriam
here, how lovely, I dreamed of her last
night, that she brought us precious jewels
so dazzling and brilliant that our eyes were
blinded with tears, and when we opened
them again, the casket of jewels held only
pale ashes.”
	“It is true ‘ashes to ashes’ our jewels of
love and memory have turned to ashes, and
Miriam brings today instead of ‘Peace on
earth,’ Peace to his ashes, far away, your
father sleeps in fair Bombay. But ere
another year rolled round the estate was
settled, and Miriam, Eleanor and her fair
daughter knelt at Shirley’s grave, strewing
it with flowers on the next Christmas Eve.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

