[Vol26 | October 1939 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Lund]
THE END
NOTES FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund,
A GLANCE at the map of the world is sufficient to present a picture of the vast distances covered by Relief Society. The tie is a strong one, uniting women of many races widely scattered throughout different lands.
South African Mission
FROM Josephine H. Folland, Relief Society president of the South African Mission, comes a very interesting report. The sisters of this mission are, for the most part, expert in knitting and handwork, and, though many of them are at business during the day, they find time to make attractive articles for use in the bazaars. While the outlined lessons present some problems, they are using them to the best of their ability. Sister Folland writes: General Secretary "I cannot express fully how much I appreciate the wealth of material in the Relief Society Magazine. I had to travel a distance of 1300 miles and also to have a vital interest in Relief Society work to gain an appreciation of this wonderful organization and its splendid Magazine."
Brazilian Mission
THE accompanying picture was taken in Novo Hamburgo and shows the Relief Society members with their first quilt, all made by hand. They are justly proud of this quilt. There are six members of the Church and several friends in this Society, which was organized during the year 1938. Sister Bowers tells us that due to climatic conditions quilts are seldom used, and this, coupled with the high cost of materials, makes the project almost prohibitive. However, the sisters are anxious to cooperate in all that is suggested by the officers of the Organization. They are greatly interested in the work, and this naturally is a factor in increasing the membership. There are some very capable missionaries in Brazil. They cooperate with the Relief Society in the program which it is endeavoring to carry forward among a very deserving people. The lesson material is translated into German for the German-speaking sisters, and it is the plan to have the lessons translated into Portuguese as soon as possible. The Magazine is a great aid here in putting over the Relief Society message.
[Caption: Quilt Made by Novo Hamburgo Branch Relief Society Members, Brazilian Mission]
