[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the “In Memoriam" of Mrs. George Dun-
ford published in our last issue, it was stated that
she came to the valley in 1868, it should have been
1867.
	The Gilmore chorus of four hundred under the
tutelage of Br. E. Stephens have formed an or-
ganization for training in music and will no doubt
accomplish a good work and be prepared for giv-
ing concerts and Oratorio, singing, etc. We
would rejoice to see Salt Lake City make rapid
progress in the development of music which is
undoubtedly, we think, the most refining and soul-
stirring of all arts, or professions.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall in this City on Thursday Decem-
ber 19th meetings commencing at 10, a. m. and
2, p. m. as usual. A representation from each
branch of the Relief Society is earnestly desired,
and it is sincerely hoped there will be a large
attendance of the members, as this is a time when
union and a faithful discharge of duty on the
part of each individual member seems impera-
tive. Bishops and other brethren, are most
cordially invited to attend the Conference as
also all interested in this benevolent organi-
zation.


[Column 1]﻿
		THORNS AND ROSES.
	Nature teaches that we cannot find a calm un-
troubled stream of light and life.
	Winter comes with icy sceptre held on high
and when his breath is felt the world’s wild pulses
cease to beat and all her gladsome songs are
hushed; but Summer follows with her hand of
warmth and loosens all his frigid chains.
	Night comes, and wraps his sombre mantle
round the earth—mantles, dark, and cold, and
chill but day light drives night shades away.
	The storm-king often beats down sorrow and
dismay, but sunshine always follows rain.
	Through all, the biting cold, the genial warmth,
the dark and light, the storm and calm, we tread
life’s hill-side path, yet never tread that path
alone. There are many pilgrims ever near, and
our  walks must temper theirs for good or ill.
Our tracks we leave and round them thorns or
roses fall—a portion from the harvest of our lives.
This is the largess we are bound to give to mother-
earth, to fellow-man.
	We meet a stranger sad and wan, we pass him
on our way; and does the look we give bring
smiles upon the troubled face, or does the frown
but darker grow? Did we drop roses in his path,or
was it but a thorn?
	A friend is near, one delicate and frail; we love
that friend, but watching, see her step aside.
Wrong thoughts she tells to us, and yet we do not
chide, but let it pass lest we should wound her
tender, loving heart, or lose the kind regard we
prize, Is that the strongest proof of friendship’s
[Column 2]
worth, and have we warm roses for her head, or
for that dear one wreaths of thorns?
	Another friend now comes to us in noble manly
pride. Temptation lures him, he loves the wine-
cup’s ruddy glow, but friends can trust such
strength as his; a fair hand takes the cup he loves
and holds it to his lips. ‘Tis given with a smile
but does it hold sweet flowers for the garlands of
his life and they hide no stinging thorns?
	Love comes to woo: we see him there and give
kind welcome by some pretty act. We watch the
pleadings of his face, and hear his ardent voice;
caress the true and trusting heart; accept the
treasures it doth bring, then cast them all away.
	What cruel work our hands have done—heart
strings are rent apart; wounds are bleeding where
we thrust the cruel thorns; and would we hide
the wrong we’ve done, hide that breaking heart
beneath white roses,they are stained, their beauty
turns to blight.
	At “home sweet home,” that dearest spot on
earth, is mother’s gentle, precious form. Her face
is ever near, and have we looked to see if time
were tracing there the deep hard lines of care, or
if the smiles of peace were wreathing halo's soft,
serene and fairer than the flesh of youth?
	Whence came the hard lines on that loving face?
Have our lives but twined round her’s a network
all of thorns? Whence came the peace the
reverential light? Oh! it rejects the love that
roses breathe, the rich perfume of garlands fair
that we hsve woven round that mother’s life.
	And father, must he toil and spend his strength
to bring the wealth that we would have? and is it
more, much more than we would need if we could
feel the achings of his careworn mind? Do soft
hands sometimes touch his throbbing brow and
wipe the sweats away! Are kisses printed there
among the furrowed lines? Is he entwined with
love’s sweet gifts? Do we scatter thorns,or roses
for his tired blistered feet to tread upon?
	Brothers, sisters God has given us, the good
the beautiful and true. 'Tis they who share the
joys the cares, triumphs and failures which are
ours. Sometimes those loved are called to
heaven’s bright realms. We stand beside the dead
to say a long good-night, a last farewell. In fond
tones now we breathe to them the fairest words
that tongue hath ever told—I love you, oh! I love
you, dear—and are we heard? Can dead ears
hear, cold lips feel affection's kiss, the marble
brow and stiffened hand our warm caress?
	Why gather roses for them now when we have
left that task so long undone?
	Why pluck rough thorns from off the grave
where silent ashes sleep?—the living loved! O
let us give them now the treasures of our hearts
before it is too late!
	Let flowers be the gifts we bring for strangers
and for friends. Flowers for the ones beloved while
they are here to know the worth and beauty of the
treasures that we give.
	And let us never scatter cruel, poisoned thorns
where one can feel their sting.
	In the school-room here where angels come to
mark the records, not of words and acts alone, but
of the silent heart thoughts too, is there a place
more mete than this wherein to learn these lessons
for the soul?
	We are weaving now, a chaplet fair for teachers
and for friends—Schoolmates, whose hands will
place the roses there, and whose the cruel thorns!
								ARETTA.	
	Written for an exercise in General Theology,
L. D. S. College, Salt Lake City, Nov. 15, 1889.


[column 1]
AN ADDRESS.
BY MRS. JULIA CRUSE HOWE.

	In addressing the members of Mutual Improve-
ment Associations of this Ward this evening, I
[column 2]
desire to say something that may cause you to
more fully realize your privileges and blessings;
and the consequent responsibilities that rest upon
you as intelligent sons and daughters of God.
	These Associations were organized by inspira-
tion, that you my young brethren may qualify
yourselves for Missionaries—and for other respon-
sible duties pertaining to building up the Church
and Kingdom of God, and establishing righteous-
ness upon the earth. And the mission of woman
is of equal importance and their duties as varied
as that of the brethren. Our exaltation hereafter
will be in proportion to our faithfulness and dili-
gence in this probation. 
	It is our privilege to stand as saviors upon
Mount Zion. And I realize that there is a field
open in this direction, in our own midst. And it
is your privilege and duty to use your influence in
stemming the tide of infidelity that is creeping in
amongst us. This may seem a harsh expression,
but I will admit, there are many young gentleman
and ladies who ignore the necessity of these As-
sociations—and who take pleasure in the vanities
and customs of the Gentile world, and love their
society. And though innocent of any intentional
wrong—yet they stand on dangerous ground.
	There is a sort of science which is termed
"Mind Cure;" faith in which is gaining ground
among us. There is also spiritual, or religious
science, an attractive name to catch the unwary.
	And at our fourteenth Ward meeting a few
weeks ago, a sister was telling of some young
people of her acquaintance being infatuated with
an instrument called the Planchette. Some present
may not know what this instrument is like, and I
cannot describe it for I never saw one, but twenty
years ago, or more, when spiritual rappings were
the craze, I was visiting a family of a prominent
member of the church, and they regretted very
much that their Planchette was loaned out, and told
of its wonderful operations. For instance, a
young lady present, whose father, by the bye, at
the time of his death was one of the three first
presidents of the church, enquired through this
instrument the name of the man she would marry.
The instrument wrote the name, and wonderful
to relate in the same peculiar handwriting as the
gentleman's own autograph.
	She subsequently married this man, and they
are both apostates. And soon after this the
family previously referred to, apostatized, and
professsed to have revelation from God, and they
became infidels to the Gospel revealed through
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	This is only one of many instances, that might
be related, to show the evil result of tampering
with things that are in opposition to the teachings
of the Priesthood, and which conflict with the
principles of the Gospel.
	John the beloved disciple of Jesus, in one of
his Epistles said: "Beloved, believe not every
spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God;
because many false prophets are gone out into the
world, and this was the test in that day. Every
spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is
come in the flesh, is not of God. The test to-day
is—those who deny that Joseph Smith conversed
with God the Father and His son Jesus Christ—
and that the Priesthood was restored through him
with all its gifts and blessings, the gifts of healing,
prophecy, speaking in tongues, interpretation of
tongues, etc., is not of God.
	I can testify that these blessings are in the
Church at the present time, though not to the ex-
tent it is our privilege to enjoy them, and this be-
cause of our lack of faith. Owing to our indul-
gence in vanity and folly and lack of love towards
one another. 
	Paul in his Epistle to the Thessalonians refer-
ring to this time, and those people who recieve
not the truth but reject it. said: "That for this
cause God shall send them strong delusions, that


they should believe a lie, that they all might be
damned who believed not the truth."
	Satan was permitted to exercise his power in
the days of Moses. When Moses and Aaron pre-
sented themselves before King Pharaoh to plead
in behalf of the children of Israel, that they may
go and offer sacrifice to their God, to prove the 
power and Omnipotence of that God, Aaron did
as Moses commanded, and threw down his rod
and it became a serpent. Pharaoh called his wise
men and the Magicians and they did the same. 
But the sequel goes to prove that Aaron's ser-
pent swallowed up the serpents of the Magicians.
	And so it will be ere long, when the Lord has
proven His people, and they are sufficiently
humble He will manifest His power through His
servants who hold the Priesthood, in the deliver-
ance of His people, and the confounding of their
enemies. And the miracles to be wrought will
eclipse any performed in former dispensations. 
	For Zion will arise and shine, and the glory of
her God will rest upon her, and all her inhabitants
will be righteous.
	And it will be those stalwart sons and fair
daughters of Zion, who are now improving their
golden opportunities, and striving to keep all the
commandments of God, searching for knowledge
through the proper channel, and whose aspira-
tions are heavenward, that will be chosen to bring 
to pass this heavenly state of things.
	But they cannot attain unto this, only by sacri-
fice. If we expect to be joint-heirs with Christ,
we must be willing to do the will of God in all
things. And Christ has promised that if we will 
take His yoke upon us and learn of Him, His yoke
will be easy and His burden light. 
	If you wish to know in regard to your future
my young brethren and sisters, I would advise
you to get your Patriarchal blessing; and in all
probability you will find that you are of the blood
of Ephraim and the royal seed of Joseph. And 
that should stimulate you to act nobly and worthy
of your honorable progenitors.
	And that you may be enabled to over come
every temptation of the enemy, and attain to the
blessings and reward your parentage and privi-
leges entitle you to, is my earnest desire in the
name of Jesus, Amen.
	Read at the Young People's Conjoint Meeting, 
17, Ward.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	(The ladies semi-monthly meeting was held in
the 14th, ward Assembly rooms on Saturday,
Nov. 9, 1889, Pres. M. Isabella Horne pre-
siding. In the stand were Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Pres. of the Relief Society and Mrs.
Elmina S. Taylor, Pres. of the Young Ladies
Associations and Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.)
	The meeting opened with singing.
	     "When the voice of friendship's heard," etc,
	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox,
singing.
	     “Do what is right let the consequence follow,”
	Pres. Horne made some opening remarks
spoke of having been in the Logan Temple
recently, and the influence she enjoyed also
that she attended the Relief Society Conference
of Cache Stake at Logan. “We sisters do
not want to be among the number of those
spoken of by the prophet, when he uttered
the words, “Wo unto the women who are at
ease in Zion,” “we are constantly taught that
we should be united and earnest in living our
religion;” she then referred to the Savior’s
words, when upon the earth, and the
prophecies uttered, and explained their appli-
cation to the day in which we live, said “let
us not be foolish virgins but wise and diligent,”
and gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters.
[Column 2]
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, spoke upon the condition
of the people politically, and urged the sisters
to use their utmost endeavors to assist the
People’s Party in every possible way; although
they were deprived of the ballot, they had the
privilege of becoming members of the People’s
Party clubs, and of attending the meetings and
getting an understanding of all matters per-
taining to the issues now pending, and by
doing this would be able to exert a powerful
influence in the right direction with fathers,
husbands, brothers and sons, and give expres-
sion to the loyalty and patriotism that burned
as brightly in the hearts of women, as in those
of men and had in all ages  of the world;
women had as much at stake in the present
crisis as men had, women had endured as
much here, and given as much genuine help in
making homes in this barren desert, and should
make the utmost exertion to stimulate with
faith and energy the voters of the People’s
Party. Urged the sisters to read the daily
papers, and referred them to the article from
the pen of Apostle F. M. Lyman in the No-
vember number of the Contributor. Rejoiced
to see the young men training in riding and
marching clubs and thought how grand the
young ladies would look on horseback, as in
times past when the military were on parade.
	Pres. Horne followed speaking eloquently
upon the same subject and added that the
“Liberal” party boasted of the improvements
they would make etc,” expend a million of
dollars, but where would the money come
from, the people of course would be taxed for
all this extravagance, she thought the Lord
required us in this and in every emergency to
help ourselves and when we had done our
utmost He would lend His aid and support.
Referred to the example of Tooele Co. and
also spoke of the military parades in Nauvoo
in the days of Joseph the prophet,and that he
always had ladies out on horseback whenever
the Nauvoo Legion were out exercising.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young spoke in a similar
strain, she wished we could infuse this spirit
into the hearts of our neighbors and
friends, referred to the trials of Nauvoo when
so many were sick with ague, the sorrows
afterwards and our prosperity here in the
valleys of the mountains, thought we should
live nearer to the Lord, pray every day, and
fast every Sunday—straws will show which
way the mind blows; we should be examples
of purity; the same spirit is on the earth now
that was upon it when the Savior was crucified.
The Lord is for His people, keep close to the
body of the tree, hold fast to the iron rod,
the Saints are the leaven spoken of; as long as
one half are for the kingdom of God He will
be on our side and we need not fear.”  A
verse of the hymn. “The spirit of God like
a fire is burningt’ was sung.
	(Sister Jane James burst forth in praise to
the Lord and spoke in the gift of tongues.
Sister Zina gave the interpretation.)
	Sister Barrows bore her testimony to the
truth of the Latter-day work; and referred to
her husband’s account of the days of Nauvoo.
Thought it was necessary to be very careful;
and that unless we do our duty we shall be
burdened greater and more heavily, rejoiced
that her sons were in the right path and also
her daughters.
	Sister Mary Dyer bore a strong testimony.
	Sister E. Stevenson, “we are commanded to
meet together often, we all need to be mission-
aries and impart to others the good words we
hear from time to time. Our political situation
calls for our attention at the present time, we
must be diligent, the prayers of the Saints
avail much, we built up this place, we crossed
the plains in early days and endured priva-
tions; those who come now have comparatively
easy circumstances and are not prepared to
pass through trials, we must take them by the
[Column 3]
hand, and set an example worthy, by living
our religion. We must watch over our young
girls, dress them modestly and not like butter-
flies; and study economy, put away vanities
of all kinds, Sister Eliza always spoke against
these things and Sister Woodruff spoke of the 
little things that hindered us. Brother Kim-
ball used to say “it was the little foxes that
spoiled the vines.”
	Sister Frances Smith said it was 39 years
since she was baptized into the church; she re-
joiced in the Gospel and in all its principles.
Her sons were on the right side, they would
all vote for the Peoples Party, she had never
felt discouraged in regard to our political
situation, thought we should have faith and
take courage, right would triumph.
	Sister Zina made some further remarks and
referred to the Commissioners Report and ad-
vised the sisters to read it and also the report
of His Excellency Gov. Thomas; these men
know their statements are false. the mothers
should be informed upon all these points.
Repeated some of the sayings of Joseph the
Prophet in regard to the persecutions of the
saints.
	Sisters Diana Reid, Julia M. K. Wenner-
holm, Lois Hook, Jeanette Morris, Helen
Houlton and M. A. E. Watmough, each spoke
feelingly upon the political situation, and the
necessity of keeping the commandments of
God being ever earnest and prayerful and also 
watchful. Meeting adjourned for two weeks,
congregation rose and sung Doxology. Bene-
diction by sister E. S. Taylor.


