Guidance of Children ? Family Organization \ Lucy Wright Snow
======================================================================

Guidance of Children — Family Organization. By Lucy Wright Snow. While the all-absorbing topic of after-war readjustment is being discussed and plans are made to meet the many new conditions and requirements, while schools, churches, business houses and manufactories are being adjusted, what are fathers and mothers doing in the way of family adjustment? There is now more than ever before, the need of our homes being kept in order, families working unitedly and family records being kept. Millions of men have been called to the great beyond in the great world war, many of whom have never heard the gospel of Christ, leaving behind them their preparatory work for receiving the gospel, to be done vicariously. Unnumbered mothers have died of pestilence or been widowed by war, leaving their families to be reared by those outside their home circle. Are we ready for this extra work? Are our houses in order? How shall they be placed in order? By mobilizing forces and bringing families to a unity of purpose and effort for that which is yet to come and for the work that there is to do. Are parents sensing their responsibilities and covenants made to this end? While trying to establish a League of Nations let us bear in mind that united families — families who know the law of obedience, form the basis of united nations. Are Latter-day Saint mothers fully awake to their duties as heads of families, to meet all needs now at this time, when all forces available are required to make the necessary preparation for the coming events of which the prophets have spoken? Families can be formed into great forces for good by organization. Great treasures of knowledge and power lie hidden and ready to be brought out by close association of families — by family organization and effort. Of course a family is a recognized organization, but if an organization is not active it will die, and many Latter-day Saint heads of families are failing to bring out the powers of their own family circle, that would mean much to the children individually as well as to the family as a unit. Family meetings in the homes have been suggested by the head of our Church as a unity producing medium. These meetings would crystallize the family organization and assist materially in all branches of education, and both parents and children would find this to be a wonderful system of development. There is nothing that children delight in quite so much as to have their parents get down to their world and be students with them. There should be a family meeting held at regular intervals at which meeting each member of the family would be expected to attend. If any member is absent, his letter should be there. The plans and methods of conducting such meetings are many and varied, and heads of families, by a little careful thought and consideration, should be best able to make the plan and live to that which would suit their own family needs best. A simple suggestive outline follows: Let the father act as president with mother as his counselor; a member of the family as secretary and treasurer, another member as chorister and the young boys act as deacons. Procure a good large record book for the minutes and have the secretary carefully record all minutes and important items concerning the meetings under the name of the Home meetings of the (father's name) family. Deacons prepare the room in readiness for the meeting. All members should be clean and in proper condition to attend a meeting and the meeting be carried on with dignity and perfect order, though not tense and formal. Father always presides but each member in turn may be appointed to conduct the meetings or even be responsible for the program and success of the meeting which he has been appointed to conduct. There should be a free and happy spirit and the best way of assuring this is to assemble asking Divine guidance just as our Church organizations do, for the Lord has said where two or three are assembled in his name, they shall have his Spirit to direct them. Opportunities are afforded each member of the family including father and mother, to offer appropriate prayers for opening and closing, learning to select appropriate songs and in short, learning to "do things" appropriately and well, without fear. Unnumbered subjects of interest may be introduced by the members in their turn, or some systematic study pursued. Paul said "search the Scriptures, and prove all things and hold fast to that which is good." This would surely be good advice for pursuance of a family organization. The meetings, furnish an ideal place and condition for parents to get close to the children and teach tactfully and forcefully as well as gracefully, the many lessons that have to be taught, and a great amount of individual teaching can be done away with. By making each member in turn responsible for the meeting and allowing him to conduct that meeting, he will learn to love the work and if sufficient variety is introduced the meetings will never become tiresome. The teachings need not be all of a religious nature, although as interest becomes stimulated it will invariably be found that Scripture literature holds first place if properly presented. Then there are Current Events, Studies of Animals, wild and domestic of the various countries; Stories of Travel illustrated by a stereopticon (which, by the way, can be purchased for about $10.) illustrating subjects under discussion; Concert Recitations and Songs memorized, Stories, Talks of Great Men and Women of Ancient and Modern Times, Teaching the boy to save, Teaching the girl how to help in the home, the Value of Service. Encourage and bring out the talents of the family. Parents will be repeatedly surprised and astonished at what their children can do and how they will develop their talents and learn to love their home circle. One tactful mother brought about a wonderful penitence in a runaway boy, by withholding stinging reproof on his return, and then telling feelingly the story of The Prodigal Son at the family meeting. There is a tendency in these days of school rush, for parents to relieve their children of all their home duties so that they can better master their school work, thereby overtaxing their mental powers and eliminating practical education. This should not be done. Home education is fully as valuable as school education, and parents should insist upon children giving good home reports as well as good school reports. Lead the different members of the family to make their effort to increase human efficiency along the lines of Obedience, Good Manners, Conduct, Effort, Personal Hygiene and Responsibilities. Under the last heading a great feature might be awakened by outlining a plan of scout work for boys and girls; e. g., get up as soon as awake, morning prayers, attend to personal toilet, put room in order or any duties that parents might find profitable to their own children. A lively interest will be taken in these subjects if parents will mark their weekly reports on the subjects similar to the school reports, e. g., 1. Excellent; 2. Good; 3. Passing;4. Poor. The older members of the family will be pleased to report on these subjects willingly, setting the example and becoming coworkers with the small children. We never grow too big nor too old to take pride in efficiency on any of the subjects indicated. 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The small children will take a wild interest in reportingon the same things as big brothers and sisters do. They love co-operation. Indeed co-operation is unity. An occasional report of the children's saving, earnings and investments, given by the treasurer, lends interest. So numerous are the subjects that might be taken up with profit and so varied the plans, that it remains with the resourceful parents and children to find them and pursue them interestedly. But almost whatever plan is followed, if taken up earnestly and conscientiously with a view to education and advancement and unity-producing effort, will bring results that will far surpass expectations. "There is no excellence without labor," and so the more effort and conscientious thought that is put into family organization, the more will be realized from such effort. In truth, parents are responsible for seeing that their children are properly guided along all lines of education, whether they be at home, at school or at play, and no parent will be excused in this age for trusting their God-given children entirely to the guidance of others. SOLACE. By Lucy Wright Snow. Would that I could breathe to thee Words full of tenderest sympathy. To help thee on thy sorrowing way; But 'tis not given to human kind To comfort much the sorrowing mind. 'Tis only given to me to ask; God bless my sister in distress; Hold her close that she may find Thy comfort to her sorrowing mind. Take courage, then, my sister dear. The loved ones aren't gone — they're near, 'Tis but a day till we shall meet To There worship at mothers, fathers, the Savior's feet; dear. children Shall claim each other, never fear. The plan is made — the end is sure; Be faithful, trustful evermore; Thy treasures are laid up in heaven. And some on earth thou still art given, These shall thy glory be at length, And lives eternal bless thy strength.