[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 833 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
(To be continued) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Florence S. Jacobsen, President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, were special guests for two days at the Hemisfair and were honored at a reception in the Women's Pavilion. Mrs. Vivian Hamlin, President of the Women's Pavilion, presented the two Latter-day Saint leaders with ''Distinguished Visitor's Certificates,'' and lauded them for their leadership among the women of the Church. The Singing Mothers held a reception at the Mormon Pavilion for Mrs. Spafford and Mrs. Jacobsen. Four hundred Singing Mothers of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presented four concerts at the Hemisfair in San Antonio, Texas, in August 1968. The singers represented Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas, and were praised by many visitors and were especially complimented by the Vice-President of the United States, Hubert Humphrey, and John Connally, Governor of Texas. Mrs. Byron (Joan) Fisher, twenty-nine, of Salt Lake City, was crowned Mrs. America of 1969 in Saint Paul, Minnesota, August 23, 1968, being chosen from among fifty-one delegates representing the States of the Union. Mother of three children, she is a Brigham Young University graduate, a substitute schoolteacher and a teacher in the Mutual Improvement Association Laurel class in her ward. She has been a volunteer guide for visitors at the Beehive House, restored home of Brigham Young. Mrs. Don L. (Alice) Buehner, Salt Lake City, was Mrs. America 1965, and in 1967 Mrs. Dean (Jaynann) Payne, Provo, was first runner-up in the Mrs. America contest. Caroline Eyring Miner, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, mother, schoolteacher, and civic leader, has compiled—especially for mothers—a book of wit and wisdom expressed in both poetry and prose. Titled There's Always Mother, it contains some of her own delightful work. (Deseret Book Publishing Company.) Doctors Rebecca Buckley and Susan B. Dees, in research to learn why some children catch every disease that comes along while others are almost immune—an unsolved puzzle to the medical profession—discovered that many susceptible children have deficiencies of gamma-globulin in their blood serum. This was true of twice as many boys as girls. This may prove to be of significance. Betty W.
