[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 827 | Fiction | Michele Bartmess | ]
ws Jennifer Miles leaned against the big walnut tree gracing the back yard of the large family home in Springville, Utah. It was early spring, and the mountains to the south were still a beautiful blue and white from the winter's snow. The lake to the west and the sky above were an identical blue. The eastern mountains were beginning to turn green. The air was pleasantly warm and flowers were beginning to bloom all across the valley. Jennifer loved the springtime, for it signified new birth and was a change from the final dreary months of winter; but she loved each new season as it came. She sighed audibly. She was failing in a valiant but vain attempt to get an early start in preparing for final examinations at the university where she was a junior student in business eduChapter 1 Welcome The Task 
Michele Bartmess ° as told by Annette Giles » cation. When she finished she would be qualified to teach in high school. There were three more semesters, one of which involved student teaching, before she would finish her course of study. She realized that she was going to have to go into the library in Provo, for there she could push away the thoughts that were crowding her mind and study diligently. Recently, she had been having some trouble forcing herself to prepare for her classes, and, at times, she felt uncertain as to whether she ought to be in school, although it was a lifelong goal. She was assured that it was both natural and temporary. Many dedicated students had periods of time when it seemed hopeless, it was called "junior jitters." From the kitchen the aroma of baking bread stirred Jennifer to 

827 November 1968

 action and she hurried in to see if there might be something she could do to help. "I thought you were studying, dear,' Mrs. Miles commented as Jennifer came into the cheerful yellow and white kitchen, always perfectly clean, even after a baking session. "I guess [ll have to do my studying in the library, where I can't see all the signs of springtime and feel the sunshine warming my bones. I believe my ailment could be correctly diagnosed as spring fever." "You're sure you haven't been bitten by the love-bug, Jenny?" her mother asked perceptively. "How was your date last night?" A flicker of uncertainty clouded Jennifer's features for a_ brief moment, then she said brightly, "The play was wonderful. Some of the student actors are great. They really portray with emotion. I guess it's a reflection on the fine training the university offers." Elizabeth Miles did not pry into the brief hesitation she had noted in her daughter's reply. Theirs had been a close family, and Jennifer was the only daughter. She would come to her in time. "Mother, you're going to ruin my figure," Jennifer protested, as she took the warm cinnamon roll her mother offered. Elizabeth smiled. "No, Jenny, your figure survived two years of British cooking, and most people do put on weight when they go over there." Jennifer knew this to be true, but while she was on her mission she had been consciously careful of what she ate. She had always been slim and_ graceful. She 828 looked like her mother, with long dark auburn hair, and brown expressive eyes. Her mouth was full and generally turned up in a smile. She did have her father's chin, suggesting strength and determination. As Jennifer drove to Provo later, she thought over the previous evening's activities. She wondered if her conversation with Steve was the reason that things seemed all out of proportion today. Their relationship was somewhat strange, she supposed. Although they had tried, or rather Steve had tried to explain it, Jennifer was left somewhat confused and unsure of how she really felt about everything, including Steve. Steve was a quiet person. Everyone was aware of that, but it had never been uncomfortable to be with him, and the silences had been pleasant ones. Jennifer wasn't too much more outgoing than he. She joked and had fun with her friends and family, but was basically serious, and, occasionally, shy. As she had told her mother, the play had been wonderful. It was one she had read, but seeing it portrayed had brought it strangely to life. It was Thornton Wilder's Our Town, done with a minimum of distracting scenery so the characters were the focal point and it had moved the audience deeply. In the climactic final scene where young Emily urges people to live each day fully, for it will be lost when it is done, Jennifer felt tears stinging her own eyelids, and the gentle pressure of Steve's hand told her that he, too, had been deeply moved. After the play, they had walked across campus and sat down on one of the benches beneath a tree in a little grove, where students often came for a bit of quiet aloneness. They discussed the play and its message, and were in agreement about the beauty of such a message. Suddenly Steve had asked, seemingly out of the blue, "Jenny, do you ever feel trapped by life?" She looked at him oddly. "Trapped?" "You know," he went on, earnestly, "by social pressures and all. That if you go against the expected norms, you're some kind of an oddball?" Jennifer could not imagine where this strange beginning was going to lead. This was unlike Steve. "What kind of social pressures, Steve?" "Well," he began hesitantly, "we've been dating for about a year now, and we corresponded for nine months." Jennifer felt momentary panic. What could he be driving at? Was he going to ask her to marry him, or was he trying to end the relationship? Neither seemed likely. "Yes, I guess it has been that long, but it doesn't seem like mo He was silent for a_ while. "Jenny," he finally said gently, "I guess I owe you something after all this time, at least an explanation of my intentions." The thought had crossed Jennifer's mind, but, unlike most girls her age, she was not particularly concerned lest she might not marry. She felt that there was some unfinished business in her life that needed attention before marriage, although what, ~ she had no idea. She had fulfilled her dream of serving a mission in England, but still she felt a restlessness to prepare for some task. She would soon be_ through school, but she knew this was not the task. She was nearly twenty-four years old, and marriage could wait. She enjoyed life and male attention, and she did want to marry and have a family, but not yet. Her friends considered this attitude strange, so she rarely expressed it. She knew that she simply was not yet ready for marriage. Steve spoke again. "I've been getting it from the fellows, you know, about us getting married and all." So this was what he meant by social pressures. She "had been getting it," too, but it would bother a man more than a woman. Steve was twenty-seven years old, nearly through school, a mission and military service behind him, naturally, he was ideal as far as a possible husband was concerned. 

829 November 1968

 "I really don't know what to say, Steve. I haven't been worried about that. We have a good time together, I feel comfortable with you, and of course, I am fond of you, and respect and admire you. ] just ignore the social pressure." Most of their discussions had been religious, academic, or in a non-personal category. It was difficult for them to express themselves in such a frank and candid manner about so serious a matter. "That is exactly why I am attracted to you, Jenny. Pretty girls are a dime a dozen on this campus, but they all have one thing on their minds—marriage. It scares a man. You're a beautiful girl, Jennifer, I like that, but you're also mature and intelligent. You never put pressure on me by dropping little hints, or staring longingly when we pass a jewelry shop." "Well, frankly, Steve, I'm just not in any hurry to get married. I do want to finish school, and I feel that there is something else I have to do. Please don't ask me what, for if I knew I would set about doing it." "I've said this much, Jenny," he said, seeming to force himself to continue, "I guess I'll finish. If I were going to marry soon, you would be my choice. We are compatible, I admire your domestic talents, you're calm, understanding, and intelligent, I'm always proud to be with you, and believe it or not, I do care about you. But, well—I haven't given marriage too much thought yet. I want a home and family, eventually, but right now I want my master's degree. And there is Mom. I don't even remember 830 Dad. I was just a little boy when the war broke out, and he was killed in Normandy. Mother has helped me as she could through school, and with my mission. I don't know, I'm probably against falling in love, and I have no right to ask you to wait until it becomes convenient for me to change my mind." "Steve," Jennifer asked quietly, when she decided he was through, "are you trying to end this relationship?" He shook his head sadly, and pulled her closer looking into her eyes, his own gray eyes expressing sincere and frank concern. "Oh, Jenny, have I made such a mess of things? That's the last thing I want, I only wanted you to know where things stand." They had talked a little more, without solving anything. Jennifer had been perfectly willing to accept things as they were before, why not now? Why hadn't the relationship taken its natural course, or was this the natural course? Why had his friends put on the pressure, couldn't two people be friends anymore? T he arrival at the library and determination to study, forced Jennifer to put Steve out of her mind in favor of the problems she would be facing as a schoolteacher. She arrived home in time to help prepare dinner. "You look so tired tonight, Mother. You haven't overtaxed yourself, have you?" "I am a little tired,' her mother admitted. Jennifer chewed her lip thoughtfully. She worried about her mother. She had had a heart condition which had _ plagued her for many years. 'There were times when she would suffer considerably, but she rarely complained, yet often, despite attempts by the entire family to prevent it, she overtaxed herself. CD innertime was a_ pleasant time in the Miles family. With four busy youngsters, there were few times when the family was all together. Bickering and squabbling were not allowed, nor was monopolization of the conversation; however, anything which might be of general interest to the family was discussed. Charles Miles maintained that good food digested better amid a happy, pleasant atmosphere. After dinner, Jennifer did the dishes while her father and mother talked quietly in the living room. The three boys, Dave, Pete, and Sam, would be off on a variety of activities, depending upon the season of year. All three were avid sports enthusiasts. Pete loved animals, Dave, a little older, preferred girls, and Sam, the youngest, devoted his attentions to the television set. Quite often, the entire family would gather at the piano for singing. Songs from the hymnbooks and other sources were sung with Jennifer at the piano. Every member of the family had a good voice. Elizabeth's was beautiful. The boys would often beg her to sing an old favorite, and she would gladly comply. On many evenings Charles would be found playing catch with the boys, or fly-up, or a variety of other games. Then Elizabeth would help Jennifer Welcome the Task sew, or work on some piece of handwork she wanted finished. Jennifer thought her family life was as perfect as could be. Their parents had never sent them to church, they had taken them. Each week they held a family home evening. Each evening they had family prayer. It was not mandatory, but was looked forward to so greatly, that it was seldom missed if it was possible to be home at that time. On this particular evening the boys were gone and Jennifer was alone with her parents. "You have seemed restless, Jenny," her father commented. "Is there anything bothering you?" Jennifer sighed. "Oh, I don't know. I can't put my finger on any one thing being wrong, but I feel as if I should be doing something I'm not." "We don't want to pry, dear," her mother told her, "but are things getting serious between you and Steve?" Jennifer didn't answer right away. Then, suddenly, she was glad she was so close to her parents, so she could talk with them. She knew that if there was need for advice, they would give some, and it would be good. She told them about the conversation with Steve. "I didn't really worry about it before," she commented upon completion of her story. "Oh, I guess I wondered at times how he felt about me, but I accepted his not saying anything, and even his staying away for two or three weeks at a time without explanation. I know how busy he is. But I didn't wonder much. Bringing it out in the open must have 

831 November 1968

 upset some balance or something, because now I feel unsure of him, and also unsure of how I feel. Maybe the fault is mine. I suppose most girls would be worried if the object of their affections was noncommital and _ stayed away for weeks at a time." "Well," her father commented, "many people react differently to situations. You've never been the type of person who gets too excited, on the outside." "T sound like a dull person," Jennifer commented wryly. "I didn't mean to imply that," her father answered. "What he means, Jenny," her mother said, looking fondly at husband and daughter, "is that you can meet problems with a logical, mature attitude. You aren't emotionless, though, we all know that." uJ ennifer sighed. She was really wondering about herself at this point. Summer was coming. She hadn't secured a job. She had no plans. She did feel dull and trapped. This thing with Steve could go on forever, and, perhaps, end in heartbreak, when some younger girl might sweep him off his feet. Jennifer couldn't let her family support her forever. They had Dave in high school, Pete in junior high, and Sam in the fifth grade. She knew that if her mother could possibly have heart surgery, as had been recommended by a specialist in Salt Lake, that would eat into the budget. The more she thought, the more confused she became. They had sat silently, each thinking his own thoughts for nearly half an hour. Elizabeth spoke first. "How would you like 832 to get away this summer, Jenny?" Jennifer looked incredulous. "Where?" "Well, my cousin Bea McPherson telephoned the other night, and mentioned how she would like to have you come for an extended visit, and your father and I thought you might enjoy spending the summer in Houston." "But don't you need me here? I should get a job." Charles spoke up. "We can have Mrs. Bates come more often," he said, referring to the housekeeper they had hired while Jennifer was in England. "And, as for money, you know we have saved enough for each of you children's educational needs and missions." "You need not decide immediately," her mother said, "but we thought that we would present the idea to you. Goodness knows you have had little vacation in many years." "And," her father added, "Bea has been quite lonely since John's death. She is a young woman yet, and the two of you should be good for one another." John McPherson had been killed in a tragic accident six months earlier. "I will think about it, and I can never thank you enough for being such wonderful parents," Jennifer said sincerely, as she prepared to go up to study for awhile. She was thinking of a summer in Houston, what new things it might bring, as compared to a summer in Springville waiting for something to happen. What would happen if she were in Houston and Steve were here? She wondered briefly before opening a sociology text.