The Relief Society Magazine - November 1968, Vol. 55, No. 11

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1968

The Swallows Dorothy J. Roberts Back beyond the far edges Of time, refuting thunder And the violence of sound, Up from the cool meadows The swallows of my childhood come, To perch in silent symphony, Black notes on a wire staff Above the impending storm. They shift, move, Rewrite the score Of black notes on the coral Of a sunset cloud, Still composing in the lingering twilight Their silent melodies. Never a burst of song Though wings are everywhere. Only the lost chord of silence To assuage the dreamer's ear.

The Cover: Design by Dick Scopes Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Symphony of Swallows Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

While vacationing at beautiful Fremont Lake in Pinedale, Wyoming, I have had a very enlightening experience of reading some two and three year old issues of the Magazine. Thank you, sisters, for publishing the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. You cannot imagine how much the Magazine means to us who live at the end of South America field of alfalfa, wild flowers on the hillside, a hummingbird all the beauty of God's world.

Ardath Esplin Staheli Enterprise, Utah

"Say Peanut Butter" in the May 1968 issue of the Magazine, by Janice Dixon was delightful. I always say a little levity leavens the loaf.

Florence Bittner Salt Lake City, Utah

I thank the ladies of the Twenty-third Ward, Ogden, Utah, for sending me the lovely Relief Society Magazine. I read every word, from the front to the back. Each article and lesson is inspiring. My hands are crippled with rheumatoid arthritis, and this is the only Magazine I can read, so I appreciate it.

Betty Ipsen Young Ogden, Utah

I appreciate the delightful illustration in the July issue (page 508) for my article "The Lady Who Bakes Cakes."

Gladys Thomas Pasadena, California

I am writing to tell you how much I enjoy our wonderful Magazine. The features, articles, stories, and photography are superb. I have always loved the honor given the sisters who are pictured with their lovely handwork.

Genevieve G. Bullard Roy, Utah

802

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.