[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 851 | General Feature | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities]

Howells, President, East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society, reports: "'A Mothers Day social was held for members of the ward and their families. A lovely dinner was served to 350. A program, featuring families depicting how to make home evenings special through song and dance, was presented, with even the youngest children participating. "A special gift booth featuring Mothers Day gifts and a booth with delicious homebaked treats raised the needed funds for the year's activities."' Taylorsville West Stake (Utah), Taylorsville Ninth Ward Bazaar "It Happens Every Spring" May 10, 1968 Karen Van de Graff, homemaking leader, Taylorsville Ninth Ward, at notions booth of bazaar. June Barker, President, Taylorsville West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A very successful bazaar was held in the Taylorsville Ninth Ward of our stake. The theme for the bazaar was, 'It Happens Every Spring.' "To show love for the bishop, the Relief Society sisters made a quilt which was presented to him during the bazaar. Each family wishing to participate had the name of the family head on the quilt." Oahu Stake (Hawaii) Singing Mothers Present ''Love Makes the World Go 'Round" April 20, 1968 Members of the Oahu Stake Relief Society board, seated, at left; Elaine Mayfield, Second Counselor; second from left: Rita Stone, First Counselor; tenth from left: Betty Skinner, President; Barbara Conway, narrator for the program; Carolyn Hannemann, organist; Myrna Fairbanks, chorister. Sister Skinner reports: ''The Church College of Hawaii was the setting for the Singing Mothers concert and art show sponsored by our stake. The theme was 'Love makes.- the World Go 'Round.' It was carried out in song, readings, and dances pertaining to the cultural backgrounds of the many islands of the Pacific as well as the oriental countries. "The song, 'Labor of Love,' written by Joanne Doxey, led off a tribute to Howard B. Stone, late president of Oahu Stake. A portrait of President Stone was unveiled and presented to his wife, Rita. "Many paintings done by sisters in the stake were on display in the foyer." 852 —,- yp WA GT <r af f November 1968 Glendale Stake (California), Glendale East Ward ''Marriage-Go-Round" Bazaar May 25, 1968 Left to right: Enid Crownover, Education Counselor, Glendale East Ward Relief Society; Jan Callister, Homemaking Leader; Trudy Hess; Inez Burns, President. Unita W. Welch, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Glendale East Ward held a unique bazaar. It was a midday affair featuring three wedding events: bridal shower, wedding reception, and at home, shown at three different homes. Luncheon was served at garden tables. "Displays and bazaar items were keyed to each event portrayed. The event was enthusiastically supported by the ward, and many heretofore inactive sisters were in attendance."' Bakersfield Stake (California), Bakersfield Fourth Ward Makes Numerous Kinds of Quilts Seated, left to right: Alene Davis Bowers and Alfrieta Baker Moyes, quilting committee chairmen, Bakersfield Fourth Ward. Barbara S. Gabbitas, President, Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Within three years, the sisters in the Bakersfield Fourth Ward have made numerous quilts of all types and sizes, twenty-five baby quilts and others large, small, and twin-bed sizes. 'Mabel Smith McDougall was honored for her lovely applique work on baby quilts. She has been a member of the Bakersfield Fourth Ward since November 1919, when it was organized. "We are very pleased with the efforts of the sisters of this ward." Australian West Mission, Remote Darwin Branch Relief Society Celebrates Anniversary, March 14, 1968 Left to right: Margaret Grimes, Secretary, Darwin Branch Relief Society; Semah Mojid, First Counselor; Dorothy Kerr, President; Vidella Vance, missionary. Julia G. Hess, Supervisor, Australian West Mission Relief Society, reports: "The members of the tiny Darwin Branch held a social function in honor of the anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. 'A meal was prepared and served by the sisters. Invitations had been sent to all members of the branch. A program was held and a bazaar followed. "Darwin is a thriving branch, and we are proud of it. It is the most remote branch in the Church, 1600 miles from any other branch of the Church. Their Relief Society is well attended and active."' 854 fin, PO nn Fett 2 0- November 1968 Palomar Stake (California) Presents Bazaar, ''Hawaiian Style," May 26, 1968 Officers of the San Dieguito Ward Relief Society, left to right: Phyllis Schwartlose, First Counselor; Carol Jane Christensen, Second Counselor; Lorraine Brewer, President; Sally Moore, homemaking leader; Lois Wages, Secretary-Treasurer. Phyllis Fox, President, Palomar Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Nine wards participated in our bazaar. Stake relationships with the wards were greatly strengthened. All proceeds from items sold in the booths were kept in the respective wards. "A prize was awarded to the San Dieguito Ward for designing the most authentic and original booth in keeping with our Hawaiian theme." San Diego Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present '"'Eternal Spring'' Concert April 26, 1968 San Diego Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Birdie Best, chorister; Thair Milne, President; Jeanne Robinson, Education Counselor; Karen McGlamory, accompanist; Anne Riggs, organist. Sister Milne reports: 'Our Singing Mothers concert was themed 'Eternal Spring.' It was beautifully presented amid an atmosphere of lovely flowers. Corsages in Relief Society colors were worn by the 140 singers, giving an appearance of a vast flower garden. "All who participated and attended were aware. Of the high standard of Relief Society being upheld. Many hours of practice and preparation were responsible for an outstanding program. Refreshments were served at the close of the concert." Wells Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert February 23, 1968 Seated front and center, left to right: Joyce Vuyk, narrator; Lucile K. Salisbury, chorister; Lou H. Winegar, organist. Pearl E. Lund, President, Wells Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Over 600 people attended the Wells Stake Singing Mother's Concert.

The theme for the event was 'The Song of the Heart.' A chorus of 110 presented a program of semi-classical, religious, and patriotic songs. A medley of Dutch folk songs was sung by a double quartette from the Netherlands Branch in their native costumes. "The narrative script was adapted from an editorial by Vesta P. Crawford appearing in the February 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine." 856 Wo, & ae Ya. 4 ae November 1968 Visiting leachers ENcmplily I Seve LOVE San Joaquin Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention, May 9, 1968 Seated, left to right: Martha Miner, organist, San Joaquin Stake Relief Society; Ramona Larson, First Counselor; Zina Shumway, President; Flora Carson, Second Counselor; Garda Meecham, chorister. Second row: Thenalda Broderick; Maurine Skelton, spiritual living class leader; Elva Wolfenburger, homemaking leader; Rouella Brough, Magazine representative; Ranae Williams, social relations class leader; Mildred White, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Shumway reports: ''The poster in the picture symbolizes the purpose of visiting teaching. It shows a large flower, with the petals listing some of the blessings which stem from a heart filled with love. Small flowers of this type were presented to each of the sisters attending our visiting teacher convention to wear. 'Special awards were presented to both the oldest and the youngest visiting teachers, as well as to the ward with the highest visiting teaching percentage throughout the year. Two sisters were honored for the outstanding examples they set by going the extra mile in performing their duties. "At the conclusion of the convention, a fashion show, displaying clothing made and designed by members of the stake, was held. Dainty refreshments were made and served by the stake board." 858 " The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 93: The Nauvoo Temple and Its Higher Ordinances Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 124:25-44.)