[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 864 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message Effective Communication Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 5—Effective Communication Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how effective communication is an avenue to successful relationships. A few years ago a university professor was lying on the floor playing with his young son. The boy, reaching out, touched his father on the cheek, as he said, 864 "You have a nice face, Dad." The father thought to himself, one of the pleasures of parenthood is that your children at least think nice things. A few minutes later his son said, "It's nice to see your face again, Dad." His father replied, "Why do you say that? I haven't been away. I go to the University and I come back every day." "I know," exclaimed his son, "I know you are here, but usually when I look at you, I just see your legs and your tummy." In recounting. This, the father said, "Now this is not much different from how we view things differently between the generations, and just an awareness of this fact may help solve some communication difficulties." How much of our failure in communication lies in the different vantage points from which we look at a problem or an occurrence in life? What role does our age, experience, our capabilities, sensitivity, awareness, and our point of view play in our interpretation of an event? What effect do these have on our communication with someone concerning them? When do our emotions prevent us from hearing accurately what is being said? When does our desire to be right create barriers against understanding? How does our pride keep us from admitting the truth? Are we often preoccupied when we should be listening? When we claim that Lesson Department someone doesn't understand us, is it possible that we are really saying, a won *t see your point of view,' "Why can't you be like me?" ¢ or "I'm not going to change, but you should." or "T understand, but you don't." Does our anxiety, our preoccupation, or our lack of interest convince our children and our husbands that we do not understand them and that they must seek others as confidants? In trying to promote better communication, and, thus, create more successful relationships, we should: 1. Listen, with undivided attention 2. Try looking at things from the other's point of view 3. Be sensitive to hidden and unspoken problems; often, what is being discussed may not be the real problem Think of the needs of others Avoid unkind wit Never belittle the other person Try to help the others, as well as ourselves, learn from failures rather than condemnation 8. Lead—don't argue. SCD CA 5 Remember:. Let us reason together, that ye may understand;" (D&C 50:10.) "In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found..." (Proverbs 10:13.) "She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness." (Proverbs 31:26.) < THE MASTER'S GIFTS ) God loved the flowers So he gave to them the dew, And he loved me, I know, For he gave to me—you. —Mary V.