[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 812 | Article | "To Walk Uprightly Before the Lord" | Marianne C. Sharp]
bey these commandments for the eternal welfare of ourselves and our children than it is at the present time. These are fateful last days in the history of the world. Section 1, 812 the Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, saysin different verses,... The voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days.... The hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. (D&C 1:4,35.)

Among the commandments given to parents, we read "And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (D&C 68:28.) It is not an easy thing in these last days for mothers to teach children to walk uprightly before the Lord. It is true that there have always been temptations in the world, but temptations today seem to be more available, with evil sounds and evil examples allowed, through modern media, to invade the sacred precincts of the home. In 1831, when Section 68 was given, the Lord said he was not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there were idlers among them and their children were growing up in wickedness. Do we wonder what the Lord thinks of the condition of our children today? All we have to do is to listen to the words of our prophets who, in the next few days, will deliver the words of the Lord to us. And it will be for us, aS mothers, to heed those words spoken to the mothers at the Relief Society conference, and then at the great general Church conference, which follows, and the words of the prophets as they visit throughout the stakes. Virtue of Modesty As we think of virtues which we would make the warp and woof of our children's lives, many come to our minds and crowd for expression. A major one is modesty. I recall my mother telling her children that her proper English mother would not allow her daughters to cross their knees, but would reprimand them with the words "Don't make _ yourself cheap." Today, we hear so much about keeping the knees covered that the true meaning of modesty may not be realized. Modesty is not measured by a yardstick. It is that innate feeling and observance for the decencies of behavior, speech, and_ dress. Clothing which covers a knee and even the upper arms may be so immodest as to verge on vulgarity. Such a subtle quality as modesty, can hardly be defined in words. The observance depends, in great measure, upon the example of the mother to her daughters. Let us look into our hearts, do we give lip service and outward compliance in a way to get by, 'To Walk Uprightly Before The Lord" or do we and are we strengthening our characters so that the quality of modesty is an integral part of it, helping us to gain eternal life? Can we imagine an immodest woman in the celestial kingdom? Is that thought a weightier one than style or fashion, or following present trends? Obedience to Law; Upholding the Constitution A second area to which I would speak is the observance of law and upholding the Constitution of the United States. A mother's training in observing the law is powerful for a child. In her daily living pattern she teaches her child not only to observe the laws of God but also the laws of the land. Lessons in law observance are easily taught as she drives a car, as she has her child observe traffic signals in walking, as she observes the word of wisdom in the home and outside, as she observes the Sabbath day to keep it holy. The divinity of the Constitution of the United States is a part of the gospel no matter in what country a Latterday Saint may live, for it was established by the Lord in order that his Church could be established on the earth. Mothers who owe allegiance to the Government of the United States need to train their children to be ready to save the Constitution when that time comes. Brigham Young said on July 4, 1854: Will the Constitution be destroyed? No: it will be held inviolate by this people; and, as Joseph Smith said, "The time will come when the destiny of the nation will hang upon a single thread. At that critical juncture, this people will 

813 November 1968

 step forth and save it from the threatened destruction." Brigham Young added "It will be so." (Journal of Discourses 7:15.) We do not know how or when this will be, but we need to teach our children to love the Constitution of the United States, and to know that "the signers of the Declaration of Independence and the framers of the Constitution were inspired from on high to do that work." (Journal of Discourses 7-14.) When the destiny of the United States will hang upon a single thread, at that critical juncture, mothers, do you want your children among those who will step forth and save it? They must be law abiding and liberty loving if they will do it. A few months ago a Patriot's Day observance was held in this Tabernacle. A former United States Supreme Court Justice, Tom C, Clark asked "What is the most important thing in the world?" and answered, "I say to you it is the law. Without it we would not be able to live. The world would be governed by force.... The next most important thing in the world is obedience to law and respect for constituted authority." As mothers, let us set an example of obedience to law to which our children will adhere. Love for the Savior Finally, I would speak on the attribute which must govern us as mothers in our daily living pattern and which we must teach our children if they would "walk uprightly before the Lord." It is the knowledge of Jesus as 814 the Christ, the Son of the living God, and our love for him. As we have taught our children faith in Christ the Son of the Living God, so we must teach them love for Christ. As we get a dim, imperfect understanding of the atonement of Christ for all, our love for him increases. The great motivating force to be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men, is love of Christ. The great motivating force to keep us on the straight and narrow path to exaltation, is the love of Christ. As mothers we must draw near to him. It is not what we profess to be, nor even what our actions are, which will give us that greatest gift of eternal life. It is what we are—which the Lord knows. In being judged for what we are, there will enter in the words of the Lord with regard to the teaching of our children and where we do not fulfill his command, "the sin will be upon the heads of the parents." Nothing will excuse a mother from obedience to these commandments of the Lord. When children become independent and sometimes even rebellious, it is the day-by-day, hour-by-hour training of the children by the mother which may keep the child from turning away from righteousness. President McKay has testified to the safeguard of a mother's example and teachings in the hour of temptation. May every Latterday Saint mother obey the commandment of the Lord to teach her children to walk uprightly before the Lord and welcome the blessed opportunities for training them throughout life, I pray.