[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 873 | Lesson | Cultural Refinement The Satisfaction of Growth Robert | K. Thomas]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Four By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "We are born to grow and can only develop by keeping ourselves in vital communication with the world without and within us." —J. 5S. Spalding Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that, in true development, increasing complexity is matched ART: by enlarging capacity. 'Lady Jean'' by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Painting reproduced in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1968, page 688. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, page 691. INTRODUCTION As children we usually yearn to grow up; it is only the adult who longs for youth. If, as Wordsworth suggests, "shades of the prison house begin to close upon" the growing child, children are often more realistic about freedom than their parents. The responsibilities of adult life obviously limit complete freedom, and all but relentlessly indulged youngsters willingly accept this. The small girl playing house is trying to the best of her ability to take care of her doll family and pretended household chores. In so doing she is an appealing embodiment of the two elements on which all maturity is based— work and love. If her love still lacks discrimination and her work is childishly random, her instinct is sure. "SILENCE" BY MARIANNE MOORE (under copyright) The first selection in this section, "Silence" by Marianne Moore, helps us to see at least one standard by which our love can be refined. First of all we must recognize that sensitivity is a distinguishing characteristic of mature love. In her deft, opening lines, Miss Moore touches briefly on various kinds of insensitivity; those who make long visits are insensitive to others; those who must be shown standard tourist attractions are insensitive both to others and to themselves. Truly superior people know that real concern for others 

873 November 1968

 has little to do with superficial companionship and that those who try to keep us from indulging ourselves are really our friends. What makes this poem effective is the way in which these ideas are presented. The indirection of Miss Moore's lines forces us to think about what she is saying while the specific details she uses help us to participate in the situations she describes. The result is that we come away from a poem about growth having experienced growth. Discussion Question Although the title of this poem is "Silence," we soon discover that Miss Moore has in mind a special kind of silence—that which is the result of deep, restrained feeling. How important is restraint in the achievement of maturity? "THE MOTHER'S DILEMMA" FROM "THEIR MOTHERS' SONS" BY EDWARD STRECKER (under copyright) The second selection this month focuses on a kind of love which isa hindrance to the growth of both mother and child. Dr. Strecker's article is effective because he never descends to sensationalism or technical jargon to present his point. He is content to pose the problem and possible consequences of overly protective love in language that is both simple and disarmingly forthright. He is understanding enough to concede that just being a mother creates a dilemma for which there is no easy solution. His compliment to his readers is that just seeing the general problem clearly may make individual decisions easier. 874 The integration of love and work found in real maturity is only hinted at in "Silence" when its concluding lines suggest that the truly sensitive are anxious to encourage others' on-going effort. In "The Mother's Dilemma," we see this fusion of love and work more explicitly. It is not enough to love our children devotedly. Unless we work at teaching them how to give as well as take, we have stunted their emotional growth. Failure to prepare her child for independence exacts as much from the mother as the child. Both remain in a state of arrested development; both forego the satisfaction of maturity. Discussion Question Assuming Dr. Strecker's assertion that "the vast majority of men and women are made or broken before the first ten years of their lives" is at least approximately true, what specific things can a mother do to help her children become independent without feeling rejected? "THE RIVER MERCHANT'S WIFE" BY EZRA POUND How one's love for another should develop is the theme of our next selection. Ezra Pound's rather free translation of an ancient Chinese poem helps us to see how old, yet how fresh, are the stages in developing love. Anyone who is happily married can testify that falling in love is exciting, but growing in love is more deeply satisfying. Perhaps the one line in "The River Merchant's Wife" which tells us that married happiness must be worked for occurs at the end of the second stanza. Although her marriage has been arranged, and she is too bashful to laugh or even look up, the young bride looks forward and not back. That this effort cost her something is suggested in the next line when she admits that her first year of married life was characterized by her "scowling." That her effort was worthwhile is testified to in the adolescent intensity of her desire to have her dust mingled with her husband's "for ever and for ever and for ever." Discussion Question The wife in this poem surely does show restraint in expressing her love. To what extent, if any, is the point of "The River Merchant's Wife" in conflict with the theme of 'Silence'? "SONNET 7 FROM HOLY SONNETS" BY JOHN DONNE At the round earth's imagined corners, blow Your trumpets, angels, and arise, arise From death, you numberless infinities Of souls, and to your scattered bodies go; All whom the flood did, and fire shall o'erthrow; All whom war, dearth, age, agues, tyrannies, Despair, law, chance, hath slain, and you whose eyes Shall behold God, and never taste death's woe. But let them sleep, Lord, and me mourn a space, For, if above all these, my sins abound, "Tis late to ask abundance of Thy grace, When we are there; here on this lowly ground, Teach me how to repent; for that's as good As if Thou hadst sealed my pardon, with Thy blood. Our opening selections have stressed various manifestations of love. Our concluding ones emLesson Department phasize work. In "Sonnet 7," for instance, John Donne is painfully aware that he is not prepared for judgment day. The suggestion that his sins "abound" above everyone else's may be deliberate exaggeration, but it is indicative of his state of mind. He is not interested in gauging where his sins might be viewed in relation to other persons, for any sin implies estrangement from God. Neither is he willing to depend upon the grace or mercy of God once his earth life is over. Now is the time and here is the place to repent. It is interesting to note that Donne does not contemplate effortless change, but when the Lord helps him understand how to repent, the rest is up to him. Donne simply asks for time to grow into the kind of person whose life does not mock the Savior's sacrifice. Discussion Question "Sonnet 7" helps us see that repentance is at the base of spiritual growth. To what extent is repentance at the base of all growth? "EARLY MARRIAGE" BY CONRAD RICHTER (under copyright) "Early Marriage" involves us in the development of two young people, a brother and _ sister, Rife and Nancy Belle, who must grow up almost over night. Yet this is no story of courage under actual fire. The young boy and girl who must make several days journey through hostile country are not called upon to fight Indians, but they must fight their own fears, develop enough self-control to strengthen each other, and grow up to the 

875 November 1968

 point that they can face whatever the next day brings. As we might expect, love is the impelling force: the girl's love for her husband-to-be, the boy's devotion to his sister. But the real impact of the story comes in watching them work out of youth into adulthood. We know from the first that Rife's apparent unconcern and Nancy Belle's calmness are carefully and deliberately imposed from within. The effort it is costing young Rife to keep control of himself is hinted at repeatedly in the stiffness of his actions, and Nancy Belle's mature understanding of her plight is effectively suggested in her controlled emotions. She doesn't even hug her brother when he returns with the lost horses lest this break in the discipline she is imposing upon herself, might weaken them both. Discussion Question What is the danger in growing up too fast? What areas of your life are apt to suffer if you assume responsibilities beyond your years? "MY KINSMAN, MAJOR MOLINEUX"' BY NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE "My Kinsman, Major Molineux" was among the earliest of Hawthorne's tales to appear in print, but its critical reception was mixed.