[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 845 | Fiction | If Spring Be Late (Conclusion) | Mabel Harmer]
[If Spring Be Late (Conclusion) Mabel Harmer]

If Spring Be Late-

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with curled hair writing in a book]

Chapter 8 (Conclusion)
Mabel Harmer

■ Any plans for making use of the castle or its grounds were left in abeyance for the time being. The Taggarts planned to visit for a day in Edinburgh and then return home by way of the coastal highway through the Lowlands. Maureen decided to remain in the village to do further research at the castle library.

Before leaving, they all went over to the churchyard to look over the ancient family burial ground. A gardener at work informed them that the great yew tree on the grounds was one of the oldest in that part of the country. Maureen was somewhat surprised to find how many of the headstones bore the name of Taggart. "Do you have any records within the church?" she asked.

"Yes, Miss, to be sure," was the answer. "But you'll have to see the minister about that. My concern is only with the growing things out here."

She was very much interested. Right here at the seat of her ancestral home, she might find a wealth of material for her family research. The records might even equal those at the castle.

When she contacted the minister, however, he said that he feared she would find little that was new to her work. He said that photostatic copies had been made of all of their records and he was sure she had seen most of them, either at the Public Records Office or at Somerset House.

The library at the castle was a different matter, however. In addition to the huge Bible, with its lengthy records, there were numerous volumes which gave promise of other data. The prospect of rewards looked enticing

845

November 1968

—providing she could surmount the problems involved. It was so cold in the library that she dreaded the thoughts of spending many hours there at any one time. Transportation to and from her hotel at the village created another problem.

She partially solved the first by wearing all the warm clothing she owned and, for the second, she purchased a bicycle. It meant an hour's pedaling morning and evening, sometimes in the rain. The one bright feature was that the uphill ride was the morning when she was fresh, and the downhill in late afternoon, which turned out to be rather fun.

On the third morning of her work she was happily surprised to find a blazing log in the fireplace. "How wonderful!" she exclaimed. "But where did you get the wood? I haven't seen any trees near enough to be cut and carried here."

"The wood wasn't the main problem," Robert answered. "I keep rather a good supply on hand. The problem was to get the chimney cleaned out. I had to rustle a good, old-fashioned chimney sweep for that task."

"You can't imagine how grateful I am," she said. "Just to see that cheerful fire lifts my spirits no end. I shall move over as close as I can to do my work."

"You'll have to move close to get much good out of it," he agreed. "After all these years it will take more than one day's warming to penetrate much of this cold."

A few days later the sun broke through with such warmth that

Maureen scarcely needed her sweater for the ride to the castle. Just inside the gates at the cottage, Robert met her, saying, "Guess what? You get a holiday. I've packed a lunch and we are going for a picnic."

"How lovely!" she responded. "Where do we go?"

"Just a climb up that hill to the east. There is a waterfall—small but beautiful—which you must see. It's a good thing you are wearing those stout walking shoes. The climb isn't far, but it is fairly rough."

Maureen was glad for a holiday. With the sunshine so bright and the sweet smells of spring in the air, she had not looked forward to going into the dark rooms of the castle.

Robert led the way, carrying a blanket and the picnic basket. There was just the barest suggestion of a path and, at times, he stopped to help her over a rock or a place that was extra steep. By the time they reached the waterfall, she had to pause for breath to exclaim over its beauty.

"I was sure you would appreciate it," he said, as he spread the blanket. "Now, sit down and rest while you enjoy the view."

Below the glen stretched out to the castle grounds and beyond, where some of the orchards were just now beginning to show their first blossoms.

"I had hoped to see more spring flowers," she said. "The daffodils on the mall toward Buckingham Palace were all in full bloom last week."

"Usually we have more here, too, at this time of year. But spring is late. However," he added with a smile, "if spring

846
