[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 804 | Article | Special Features Belle S. Spafford Elected President of the National Council of Women of the United States | Marianne C. Sharp]
[Special Features Belle S. Spafford Elected President of the National Council of Women of the United States Marianne C. Sharp]

Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] 7 w Early in April of this year, it was my honor and privilege to be the guest speaker at a meeting held in New York City in honor of the 80th anniversary of the founding of the National Council of Women of the United States and also the _ International Council of Women. These two great councils were established in 1888 primarily in the interest mE ORSTERT a 806 of woman's suffrage with two socalled giants of the early suffrage movement, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, as the key figures. Today millions of the world's women are identified with these councils. There were in attendance at this anniversary meeting more than 700 women with sixty-one countries of the world represented. These were capable, serious-minded women leaders who had distinguished themselves in varied fields of human endeavor in their respective countries. They were women of conscience concerned with ways to alleviate the strains under which we are now living and anxious to bring about a more just, orderly, and peaceful way of life. In inviting me to speak, I was advised that it was the aim to have the program recognize the past in the world of woman with particular emphasis upon her work in the field of woman's suffrage, her place today, and what may be expected of her tomorrow. Considerable research was involved in the preparation of my address. Three strong impressions emerged from this research. First, the dedication of women of the past to the cause of suffrage and their conviction of its rightness. So strong were Mrs. Stanton's convictions that according to one of her biographers, Theodore Tilton, "... She would willingly have given her body to be burned for the sake of seeing her sex enfranchised." While Susan B. Anthony, according to one of her biographers, Ida H. Harper, "... Stood ready to sink all personal feelings... For the sake of promoting this cause which she placed above all else in the world." Second, I was impressed with the long and hard struggle of the women, the patience and persistence with which they overcame almost inconceivable obstacles in order to achieve their goal. WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE Third, I was impressed by the worthy motives which prompted early-day leaders to work for woman's suffrage. I found nothing in my reading which indicated, in any way, that the struggle was in order that women might be competitive with men in. Public hfe; rather suffrage was seen as an avenue through which women might have voice in public affairs, use their talents and exercise their judgment in the achievement of a better life for all. They saw it as a means to enlighten women for the enhancement of the society in which they were destined to live.