[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 820 | Article | Luella W. Finlinson Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society | Zola McGhie]
One son, now married, 819 Luella W. Finlinson Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Zola McGhie, Member, General Board of Relief Society w Coming to her new calling on the General Board of Relief Society, Luella Wheeler Finlinson brings a rich background of service and devotion to the Church and the community. She was appointed August 14, 1968. Born in South Cottonwood, Utah, the youngest of seven children of Bishop Jesse H. And Rena M. Doty Wheeler, Sister Finlinson comes from a family of Relief So- \ ciety workers. Her mother was in the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society Presidency when the Cottonwood Maternity Home was founded. Two sisters have been ward and stake presidents. She attended schools in the Granite District and graduated, an honor student, from the University of Utah. She then taught in Granite, Murray, and Jordan Schools before marrying Fred Lyman Finlinson, Salt Lake attorney, in 1939. They are the parents of three children: Fred W., a law student at the University of Utah, married to the former Jeanne Braithwaite; David W., business student; and Judith, a sophomore at the University of Utah. Sister Finlinson's devotion to the Church and her leadership have been demonstrated in her many Church assignments. She was a member of the Tabernacle Choir for twenty-eight years; served as ward MIA secretary and president; as teacher and chorister in Sunday School; as Relief Society visiting teacher; as cultural refinement class leader, Singing Mothers chorister, and ward president. Stake assignments include: Junior Girls leader, counselor of Girls Committee, Relief Society visiting teacher message leader, secretary, chorister, regional welfare president, and seven years as South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society President, a position she held until her appointment to the General Board. Her many civic activities include positions in the Parent-Teacher Association, Utah State Barristers Wives, Salt Lake County Bar Auxiliary, political circles, Delta Gamma Alumni, Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, Salt Lake Council of Women, Lady Lions, Forum Club, and fund raising drives. She is listed in Who's Who of American Women and Who's Who in Western American Women. The women of the Church will truly benefit from the humble spirit, friendly personality, and the great love for Relief Society that Sister Finlinson radiates. 820 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] w The presentation of a brief report of the status of Relief Society, together with a few current official instructions and recommendations from the General Board, is a regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Conference. Heretofore, figures from the most recent annual report have been compared with those of the previous year, giving precise information on growth and accomplishments. In giving this report, we must use figures from the report covering the eight-month period, January through August 1967, which are the only Church-wide figures available to us at this time. This eight-month report does not lend itself to comparison with the previous twelve-month report, so comparative figures will not be used. The growth and expansion of the work have necessitated some changes in procedures; a need to take firmer steps to standardize the work in harmony with the regulations and recommendations of the Church Correlation Committee; a need to provide some new Church approved materials, particularly lesson materials, to meet the special needs of certain Societies; a need for extensive translation of Relief Society materials to serve the many foreign-language organizations. STANDARDIZING THE WORK An effective tool in standardizing the work is the new Relief Society Handbook of Instructions issued in January of this year. The revised Record Books and Visiting Teacher Report Books further standardize the work, as do the present regulations with regard to the use of ChurchCorrelation-approved materials. The four volumes of the Special Lessons prepared for groups needing simplified lessons, as well as the lessons for use by campus Relief Societies during' the summer months, bring further uniformity into the teaching program. Relief Societies are directed not to use courses of study or other programs of their own choosing in substitution for approved programs.

With regard to the translation of Relief Society lessons and other materials, it will be of interest to