The -Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: NO WORDS LEARNED The world was exceedingly small that day From cabin to river and orchard-wide And only as tall as the tallest tree, But filtered with light through the petals of May, An arm of fence and a well beside, And empty of all but a girl of three With no past history remembered long And few words learned for her baby song. Oh, there was a little girl And she had flowers in her hair And on her dress And in her shoes. The world has grown great-grandmother old And as tall as an answered prayer. (The river still runs, but is no longer young And the withered old orchard has long been sold.) Horizons have widened from joy to despair And words have been learned for a voluble tongue Since that memoried day many Mays ago But none yet for blossoms repeated in snow. —Alice Morrey Bailey Trees That Lean Over Water, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Springtime Flowers Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Model Wendy Anderson Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 

From Near and Far I am writing this letter for the sole purpose of congratulating and thanking you for

the beautiful Magazine, which is the strength of Relief Society. When I read the

October 1968 Magazine, I found the message of Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council

of the Twelve. It made me feel very grateful and proud to belong to a Church which

speaks of the gospel in its fulness. I know that you concern yourselves with the problems

of the young women of the Church. In my ward I have read Elder Lee's article

as many times as I have had the opportunity, and each time I read it I feel more joy

for this message has helped me to bring into activity serveral women who were not

attending Relief Society. Me\^ Zapata de Mejia, Mexico City, Mexico

In reading the fine issue— the February Magazine— this morning, I am moved by the

fine writing in the article "Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is," by Margery S. Cannon.

I also think the poem "Silence," by Christie Lund Coles is a fine one.

Bernice Ames, Los Angeles, California

I wish to express my appreciation of The Relief Society Magazine. I have been Magazine

representative for two and a half years. The sisters in the ward are happy to receive

their copies and read the serials and the lessons. There are five subscribers

not of our faith, and they all tell me how much they enjoy trying out the recipes and

making things from time to time. To me the Magazine is a book that is a help at all

times, and especially when I feel lonely or depressed, I pick up the Magazine and it

certainly gives me a lift. Edith Irene Houghton, Geelong, North Victoria, Australia

I loved the beautiful February frontispiece poem "Silence" by Christie Lund Coles, also

Pearle Olsen's "I Think of Beaches," so attractively set up.

Beulah H. Sadleir, Salt Lake City, Utah

I think I have read the Magazine since it was first published and I have always been

anxious for each copy to come. I enjoy the comments and letters in the From Near

and Far department. I noticed one letter from a woman in Indiana whom I knew

when she was not a member of the Church, and who is now a member, and a dear

former neighbor with the birthdays— Bertha A. Kleinman, ninety-one. Many readers

of the Magazine will recall her poetry and writings for many years back.

Emeline L. Lynds, Fontana, Caliiornia

I especially enjoy the pictures in the Magazine and the Notes From the Field. In the

February issue when I saw the Note from Juab Stake, there was a picture that seemed

to jump right off the page to greet me. At the time when I was growing up in Nephi,

Utah, Sister Cazier was president of the stake Relief Society, and we were her neighbors.

The first thing I read in the Magazine was the story "A Day for Diddle-Daddling,"

by Alice Morrey Bailey. It seemed just like a visit with my dear departed mother.

Callie's mother sounded just like my own. Florence S. Anderson, Kearns, Utah

It is a blessing for me to have the Magazine, for usually I am a long way from our

home ward as we move so often. I especially enjoy the Magazine and all the Relief

Society organizations I visit, for I never feel alone or as a stranger.

Leah Hancock Standiford, Taylor, Arizona

I was so interested in the article "Who Will Show Her How?" (about handicrafts) by

Dorothy F. Condry in the January Magazine. I feel that I am a kindred spirit. I like

the poetry of Gladys Hesser Burnham very much. She was a schoolmate of mine.

Mrs. Myron Hansen, Collinston, Utah

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111: Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 323

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from T3 size-cap overflow) ===
. "Oh, the 'Lief Society!" replied Louise. My mother, my grandmother, and great-grandmother were all Relief Society stake presidents who served diligently for many years. My mother's own tenure was_ seventeen years, during which time the family not only shared mother, but our resources, and, in final analysis, were actually involved in a variety of projects. There were quilt and blanket projects in which needy families were helped to acquire necessary bedding during the depression; an immunization project to protect children and adults against diptheria and smallpox; a dental project, the building of a Relief Society The Rogers' home in Snowflake, Arizona, completed in 1918. Sponsored maternity hospital, and many more. Not only was Mother a diligent Church worker, but she took part in community affairs as well. Her good home management, her own humanitarian inclinations, and my father's generosity and encouragement permitted her to serve several terms, first as a member and then as chairman of the County Child Welfare Board, a forerunner to the County Welfare System. Along with the more mundane affairs of our family life, my memories of our home are interlaced with pleasant images of family occasions, family fun, and even adventures into the arts, if that is what one could call the sounds which came forth from beginners on the violin, horn, clarinet, and piano. Mother had in mind there would someday be a family orchestra; therefore, considerable time, money, and effort were expended on music lessons given by our town music. Teacher, Brother Rufus Crandell. In this, Mother was considerably more strongly motived than were her somewhat reluctant "artists," and in order for all of us to get through a rendition simultaneously and harmoniously, Mother labored long hours pointing to notes with a ruler, which she _ occasionally used to tap a balky finger. In spite of the fact that our repertoire never expanded much beyond "The Shepherd's Dream," this introduction to music was important to us and, in time, we found joy in listening to and savoring good music. Our home, thanks to Mother's management, had many excellent books which we enjoyed greatly. The storybooks were threadbare by the time we were grown for, in spite of her busy, active 

327 May 1969

 life, Mother found time for the bedtime story. One of my fondest memories was Mother's expressive reading of one of the fairy tales which transported us into imaginary kingdoms as vividly as_ those seen on television today. Thursdays were looked forward to when we were young, for that was the evening when the family gathered for "Home Night," as it was called then. For those events, Mother was the moving force even though she worked more or less in the background. She always made the children feel important as she designated one each week to be in charge. This meant we could assist in planning the program. This nearly always consisted of stories or discussions regarding certain religious or moral doctrines, with poems and songs interspersed. But the part we children looked forward to with greatest anticipation was the "party"—the games and refreshments which followed the "program." "Pretty bird, my cup, what color is yours?" Round and round the child or parent went with fingers poised in a small cup of water waiting for the moment when one of us guessed the color "it" had in mind. A correct guess signaled squeals of surprise as a drop of water was flicked into the face of the lucky one who then became the possessor of the "cup," and the game progressed. After a few rounds of "Pretty Bird," the dining-room chairs and table were pushed back for a rousing, scuffing game of "Pussy Wants a Corner." This usually 328 came at the end of the evening, for it left all of us laughing and breathlessly ready for the "pass around" and bed. As a young girl, I can remember periods when my parents passed through financial struggles as they worked together to acquire the necessities of life and money for the extras, such as college to come later for the children. There was just no money at one time—no road jobs were available for bidding. Horses and road building equipment stood idle. Creditors, too, were hungry, therefore they eyed any asset of value—cows, calves, horses, land. A national depression plagued the land! Mother, frugal and resourceful as she was, really was no match for these problems, but it was beyond her thinking to seek employment outside the home, prepared as she was to teach. After all, wasn't she a wife and mother? Didn't she have a husband and four children to care for? Someone had to attend to home and family, while Dad matched his wits and brawn against the crisis! Mother did have certain resources she was quite willing to use, however, and did so frequently—faith, and prayer, and works! Both parents bent to the challenge, each assuming appropriate roles, but cooperating and laboring together to free themselves of debt. Mother cut corners everywhere possible. We never knew hunger, but our usual ample larder was considerably reduced. Mother skimped on clothing as_ she patched, darned, remodeled, and made-do. I can remember yet, wearing underclothing which despite bleaching still bore the imprint of Silver Creek Flour Mills—Love Me brand. Probably at no time in our lives were we ever so short of necessities, but out of this trying experience came a great opportunity to observe firsthand the operation of another great principle of the gospel—tithing. Mother's faith in the Lord has always been absolute; therefore, she talked with him frequently. It almost seemed impractical at a time when our financial needs were so great to pay tithing, but Mother had confidence that the "windows of heaven" would be opened if we were faithful to this commandment. At one time she promised the Lord that if he would give our family imspiration and opportunity for earning, she would exercise her influence in the family so that a full and honest tithe would always be paid. '"'With Singleness of Heart" Things did improve for us, and for as long as I can remember, Mother's commitment has been kept. Hers and my father's obligation to the Lord has been taken care of monthly before income has been counted as their own. Of course, after things eased a bit, it was great to be able to have a few new things after doing without. My Grandmother Smith once remarked to Mother, upon admiring some new gingham dresses Mother made for us, "Leonora, it is so good to see your girls in a new piece of goods." Mother and Dad came from pioneer backgrounds. We children grew up in a simple country atmosphere, and yet ours was a rich, loving experience with our parents until my father's passing and a continuing one now with the head of our family, our spry, busy, affectionate, eighty-threeyear-old mother, Leonora 5S. Rogers. E Speak my name in whispers As new May appears: She has no lusty voice, Breathing her way Through shiny foliage And soft-fallen tears. Speak my name in whispers, Reliving pleasures In a tiny town, Child queen in fairy Dress, with lilac crown. MAY DIVIDENDS & Whisper on, as I Recall those faces Of my childhood friends; Faces young and joyful, Sighting not the promise Life extends: And I shall whisper back To you—in time, Of love-filled years, Of all May's dividends. —Beulah Huish Sadleir 329 ~~ Trt TL et w "How can I get my child to do what I say?"

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 20,295 chars) ===

rvisor, Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: ''A special 'capping' ceremony was held for the sixteen members of the Ames Branch Relief Society who completed the Red Cross Home Nursing course. It was taught by June Booth, a member of the branch who is a trained nurse. "The course was taught during the summer months at the regular homemaking meetings. It was designed to help the homemakers be more effective and prepared for various emergencies that might confront them. The sisters were most enthusiastic about learning these things, and appreciated the opportunity." 387 LL Se SSS a a May 1969 Fullerton Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present "Our Heritage in Music,'' November 15, 1968 Front row, Left to right: Jolene Swenson featured organist for solo work; Bonnie Rosell, narrator, and cultural refinement class leader, Fullerton Stake Relief Society; Marjorie Newman, (fifth from left), soprano soloist; Lois B. Anderson, President; Betty G. Low, chorister; Karen Lynn, viola soloist; Bernice Lehman, organist; Pricilla Taylor, accompanist for Sister Lynn. Sister Anderson reports: ''Only the music of Latter-day Saint composers was used for our Singing Mothers concert, 'Our Heritage in Music.' The decorations featured old wagon wheels cowered with sage and sego lilies, and our singers wore sego lily corsages. "The program included a brief resume of the life of each composer, and one of the sisters had drawn charcoal sketches of them which hung in the cultural hall. "Our guests were served a buffet luncheon following the concert, with background music featuring some of the songs presented on the program. It was a very lovely and spiritual experience, richly enjoyed by all." American Falls Stake (Idaho) Board Presents 'Family Christmas Fair,"" December 7, 1968 Shirley Kendell, President, American Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our 'Family Christmas Fair' was beautifully presented and very successful. It was primarily a stake board fund-raising project and was attended by a large percentage of the members of the stake, and many nonmembers. "Among the many displays was the clever bag display (pictured) which was delightful to young and old. We also had a home sewed clothing booth, Christmas tree decoration ideas, homemade foods, including hand-dipped chocolates, and a hamburger and hot dog stand where homemade root beer was served from a wishing well. "We felt that it was a most worthwhile activity, and was enjoyed by all who attended or worked."' Hamburg Stake (Germany) Relief Society Activities Are Numerous Marianne Eggers, President, Hamburg Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Activities among the German sisters in the Hamburg Stake Relief Society are numerous. A regional meeting, with representatives from the General Board of Relief Society, thrilled the sisters and offered some excellent instructions and suggestions. The priesthood brethren were included in these meetings and were able to reap the benefits of a greater understanding of and appreciation for the Relief Society program. 'On December 7, 1968, a bazaar was held featuring handwork for Christmas. All of the branches in the stake participated, and found this to be most worthwhile. Following the bazaar, the Singing Mothers presented a Christmas concert featuring the works of some of the world's greatest composers. Several sisters presented music on the piano, violin and flute. The singing was under the direction of Anneliese Imbeck. The room had been decorated for Christmas, and this and the lovely music made a most worthwhile and enjoyable holiday event." 

388 May 1969

 Phoenix North Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present A Christmas Program, December 1968 Sisters in dark dresses, left to right: Veoma F. Stallings, pianist; Ida M. Steele, President, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society; Doris W. Rowse, chorister; Sharon W. Shields, organist. Sister Steele reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented an outstanding program of Christmas music to help instill the spirit of Christmas into the families in the stake. With the cooperation of the priesthood, no other activities were scheduled for that evening, and the members were encouraged to attend as a family unit. Several hundred enjoyed the music and a narration written by Sister Rowse, the stake chorister. "Our Singing Mothers have presented many fine programs, and we are very proud of them and of the accomplishments of their leaders." British South Mission, Thames Valley District, Presents ''Winter Wonderland'' Bazaar November 9, 1968 Left to right: Gillian Brown-Lee, Homemaking Counselor, Thames Valley District. Relief Society; Madeleine Brighty, President; Maralyn Lasater, President, Oxford Branch Relief Society; Connie Rigby, Secretary-Treasurer. Joan Child, Supervisor, British South Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The annual bazaar for the Thames Valley District of the mission was themed, 'Winter Wonderland.' All eleven branches in the district participated. The Oxford Branch won the prize for the loveliest booth. "The quality of workmanship in all fields, ranging from delicately knitted baby clothes to a tempting variety of cakes, sweets, and jams, was outstanding. We are very proud of all eleven of the branches."' Lehi Stake (Utah) Holds Short Story and Poetry Contest September 19, 1968 Left to right: Eva Carson; Maxine Black; Leola Porter; Connie Nielsen, Alice Cook, first place, poetry; Sylmer Thayne, first place, short story; Margaret McMillan. Leah M. Sabey, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A short story and poetry contest was held, under direction of the stake Relief Society presidency. The judges ruled that the entries were so outstanding that all entries other than the first place winners were accorded second place. '"'We were delighted with the writing quality of the sisters who entered, and the discovery of hidden talents among the sisters. We hope that more contests can be held in the future to further stimulate the use of these talents, and lead to greater participation." 390 SL May 1969 Brigham Young University Eighth Stake Relief Society Presents ''I Remember Mama'"' November 16, 1968 Left to right: Judith Cookson, Education Counselor, BYU Eighth Stake Relief Society; Laurel Stott, homemaking leader; Jackie Westover, guest demonstrator; Roberta Magarrell, Homemaking Counselor; Ann Madsen, President. Sister Madsen reports: '"'Our pre-holiday homemaking meeting fondly recalled family traditions for celebrating Christmas. Outstanding mothers in the Provo community, dressed in old-fashioned clothing, demonstrated the arts of dipping chocolates, stuffing turkeys, wrapping packages, and entertaining, keeping in mind the student budget. "For future reference, a detailed booklet had been prepared and presented to the girls. A luncheon of turkey and all the trimmings was served following the demonstrations. We feel that the 'mamas' of these lovely young girls would be very proud to see the students and student wives upholding the high standards of Relief Society."' North Sanpete Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents Christmas Home Tour Bazaar, December 11, 1968 Ward presidents of the North Sanpete Stake Relief Societies, left to right: Roxie Washburn, Mt. Pleasant Fourth Ward; Donna Brunger, Fairview North Ward; Norma Elaine Anderson, Fairview South Ward; Louise B. Johansen, North Sanpete Stake Relief Society President; Dorothy Clark, Spring City Ward; Ethel Porter, Mt. Pleasant Third Ward; Leota Anderson, Mt. Pleasant Second Ward; Vera Shelley, Mt. Pleasant First Ward. Sister Johansen reports: ''The stake board in cooperation with the ward presidents sponsored our second Christmas Home Tour Bazaar. There were various types of Christmas celebrations presented in the home of a member of each ward in the stake. Included in the types of celebrations were an old-fashioned Christmas, a children's party, a formal Christmas celebration, a Christmas wedding, and many others. "Over 250 guests signed the register and expressed joy and appreciation for the privilege of visiting the lovely homes, buying beautiful handmade gifts, and catching the true spirit of Christmas in so many various ways."' Juarez Stake (Mexico) Dublan Ward Visiting Teachers Honored at Dinner Party, November 1968 Front row, left to right: Jennie R. Bowman; Hannah S. Call, President, Dublan Ward Relief Society; Agnes S. Bluth. Back row, left to right: Ruth M. Longhurst; Mary S. Bowman; Amanda S. Gonzales; Jewel E. Bluth; Willa T. Wagner; Jane H. Taylor; Winifred A. Jones; Shirley W. Memmott; LaRee L. Bluth; Nita H. Taylor, visiting teacher message leader; Christine J. Jones. 'Rhoda C. Taylor, former President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A dinner _ party honoring the faithful visiting teachers of the Dublan Ward was held recently. This ward has had a record of 100 per cent visiting teaching for the past twelve years. They are a wonderful group of sisters who are always willing to go the extra mile." Reta Johnson is the newly appointed President of Juarez Stake Relief Society. 392 nt? & _ iit foe Heuer ore idaho State University Stake Relief Society Presents ''Our Fair Lady" October 27, 1968 Stake board officers, Idaho State University Stake, standing, left to right: Joyce H. Craig, homemaking leader; Irmgard G. Dixon, spiritual living class leader; DeeAnn C. Merrill, Secretary-Treasurer; Carolyn C. Palmer, Education Counselor; Carol D. Chase, President; Beverly N. Andersen, Homemaking Counselor; Diane W. Perry, social relations class leader; Lorna Kay P. Robinson, organist; Sherry M. Van Orden, cultural refinement class leader; LaRae H. Longmore, visiting teacher message leader; Jeanette T. Cooper; May Beth B. Packin, Magazine representative. Front row, seated left to right: Jane Maughan and Gloria Johnson, visiting teachers; Sylvia Ann Woolley, as ''Miss!''m So Unaware;"' and Linda Bernt, narrator. Sister Chase reports: ''In our stake we held a musical skit to acquaint the new students with the Relief Society program, and the members with the coming year's activities. Featured in the skit was 'Miss I'm So Unaware,' who was educated in the ways and programs of Relief Society by the officers, in song and pantomime. "This was a very successful program and helped to get our Relief Society off to a wonderful beginning." 394 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 11—House Plants Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1969 Southern Hemisphere: January 1970 Objective: To show how the home can be made more beautiful and livable and our lives INTRODUCTION As the world draws closer together through various means of travel and communication, we learn more about our neighbors both in our own country and in other lands. Anyone who leaves his own country to travel in another returns with a sense of awe at the beauty which is attached to the spot of earth which each man calls "Home." Much of this beauty is centered in the gardens and flowers which surround and decorate the homes. Everywhere is seen a profusion of flowers— blooming in gardens, on terraces and balconies, in hanging baskets, in window boxes and in more enjoyable by the use of house plants. The windows themselves. People literally live with plants and flowers, inside the home as well as outside. If we are not "living" with this natural beauty, we are depriving ourselves of ofie of the great joys and values of life itself. Most of us do recognize this, for the practice of growing plants in and around our homes is not new. Our mothers and grandmothers before us took great pride in the geraniums blooming in their windows or the scented hyacinth blossoming in the bowl upon the table. To nurture a plant and watch it bloom into beauty is satisfying to the soul and warming to the heart. There 

395 May 1969

 is nothing else that we can bring into our homes that will contribute, at one and the same time, beauty, color, perfume, texture and form, cool comfort, and direct contact with nature. HOW SHOULD WE USE HOUSE PLANTS? Potted plants and _ flowers should be thought of and used in our homes as a part of the whole color scheme; in fact, the colors in every room can be enhanced by the use of plants. For instance, a gay note can be added by a touch of color repeated in the flowers and foliage. Red geraniums make a bright, gay contrast on the window sill between white curtains or drapes, and a potted primrose adds just the right effect on a table where the sun touches it and makes it reflect against the soft-tinted walls. Any room is a happier and more attractive place when healthy, growing greens and colorful flowers are included in the color scheme. WHERE SHALL WE PUT HOUSE PLANTS? No home can be entirely satisfactory for a woman who loves flowers if there are no places where plants and flowers can become a natural and welcome addition. Plants are at their best when treated as any other type of enrichment, selected and placed where they will be pleasing and satisfying to the eye. 1. In window boxes. A _ garden atmosphere can be created against the barest of walls by the use of window boxes filled with flowering plants, potted plants, evergreens, or even small trees. Window boxes have several functions. In one they are miniature gardens used 396 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service fotal plectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _...55 Zone5 _.__-_~-5 Zone3 ~~ 60 Zone6 ~___-.85 Zone4 _-=.-_-.65 Zone7 _._-_-95 Zone8__.- -1.05 c= —— DESERET PPeEews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 The Best in the West CIANSON ees Travel Service (] WW4OW Joe "THE ORIGINAL HISTORIC TOUR" To the Hill Cumorah Pageant July 24 - Aug. 10 TOURS ALSO TO HAWAII > ORIENT + EUROPE MEXICO « SOUTH PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICA + CARIBBEAN For further information and for all your travel needs write or phone— Vida Fox Clawson Travel Service Rae 216 So. 13th East fst: Salt Lake City, Utah, 84102 me 328-3234 or 328-0303 "THE TRIP WITHOUT A WORRY" Lesson Department for a wide variety of plants—daffodils, geraniums, nasturtiums, petunias, marigolds, tulips, etc. Another is to give pleasure to invalids or to old people confined to the house. Still another is to present an appearance to delight the passerby. There must be adequate drainage and the boxes must be firmly attached to the house so that they cannot fall and possibly cause injury. The plants chosen for the boxes must have a sufficiently long period of bloom to justify the efforts, and they must be able to survive under the artificial conditions which are imposed upon them. 2. On_ balconies and_ terraces. Vivid pottery jars containing plants, luxuriant vines on_ trellises, potted flowering plants and miniature shrubs and trees beautify any setting. Also wrought-iron plant stands and wall brackets are graceful additions to the patio or terrace. Hanging baskets holding ferns or flowers or trailgreens are colorful and attractive against plain walls. 3. On the porch. The enclosed porch, or sun parlor, is an ideal place for house plants and flowers, and it can be made as attractive as any room in the house. Indeed, it can be made to serve as one by the addition of a few pieces of furniture and the use of plants, flowers, and accessories tastefully chosen and arranged. 4. In windows. (The indoor garden window is a modernized version of the conservatory which could be afforded only by the very wealthy and which went out with the "Gay Nineties.'') a. The bay window with its three exposures lends itself well to the use of glass shelves for growing plants. The shelves should be arranged across the windows to give interesting patterns of color and space. Room should be allowed for trailing plants to hang gracefully. The kinds of plants will depend upon individual preference— some want blooming plants; others want just the green. It is well to combine small plants with larger ones for artistic effect. B. On ordinary windows, with curtains tied back or with side drapes, glass shelves or squares can be installed on small brackets or braces to hold a garden of violets, bulb and tuberous plants, ivy and easily grown 

397 May 1969

 begonias and geraniums. On windows with sills, potted plants find a place to grow in the sun. For hot, sunny windows, cactus and other sun-loving plants are the best choices. 5. In rooms for decorative effects. A. Largeplants. Big, bold plants are good for major effects or to occupy spaces where furniture will not fit. Plants a foot or two high may be needed on a large table or cabinet. On the floor or low stand, tall plants— as high as six feet-—make an impressive image. B. Small plants. On an end table or bench or on a narrow window ledge, small plants bring a pleasant feeling of their appropriateness. Where several plants are grouped together, however, some variation in sizes and kinds can add interest to the general effect. SHALL WE USE ARTIFICIAL PLANTS AND FLOWERS? Some of the artificial flowers and plants which are being made today are so lifelike that even close inspection does not reveal the fact that they are not real. They are being used in the most tastefully decorated homes. However, they should be as carefully chosen and arranged as if they were fresh garden flowers. Artificial plants can be combined with dried plant species for attractive arrangements. Dry arrangements, though not artificial, require little care and cost little or nothing to obtain. A wide choice is available—everlasting or straw flowers, seedpods, bare branches, driftwood, and even rocks and shells in combination. HOW SHALL WE CARE FOR OUR HOUSE PLANTS? Each type of plant has its own requirements of light and heat, 398 soil, water and humidity for best growth. In caring for our house plants it would be wise to keep the following points in mind. 1. We should treat house plants, which include potted plants, cut flowers, garden window plants, artificial and dry arrangements as we would any other accessory to our homes—appropriately and harmoniously. 2. We should choose containers which are suitable to the occupied space and large enough to hold sufficient water, and which have balance and stability so as to prevent upsetting. 3. We should give plants adequate light and heat under conditions of proper humidity. 4. We should keep plants free of dust by sponging with lukewarm water or by spraying with water from the tap or hose. 5. We should protect plants as much as possible from impurities in the air—cooking gas and fumes from other sources. (Plants are injured by gas before it is present in quantities sufficient for us to detect it.) Cross ventilation, without exposing the plants to chilly air, is helpful. 6. Caution: There are several house plants which have been found to be poisonous. We should familiarize ourselves with all plants which fall under this category and avoid their use, especially where there are children. CONCLUSION House plants are one of the least expensive and yet most effective means of embellishing and beautifying our homes, both inside and out.