[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: WOMAN SUFFRAGE. | Author: Unknown]

WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	Truly, "oratory is not argument, nor
rhetoric reason!" The reports of the
speeches for and against equal suffrage at
the Convention lie before me and have been
examined with the deepest care and anxiety.
When I learned that there would be serious
opposition I expected that opposing cham-
pions would arm themselves with a com-
prehension of the subject and that their ar-
guments would be well-nigh unanswerable,
never dreaming that we should only have a
re-hash of the old ignorant prejudices and
bug-bears connected with the proper atten-
tion of women to the creature comforts of
their families, and the wreck of homes. I am
once more reminded practically of what
Geo. W. Cable once said: "I have never
seen an argument against woman suffrage
that was not flimsy. Men are much dis-
posed to exaggerate the difficulties of voting
intelligently when they talk of women
voting. By the time a public question is
ready for the popular vote it has become a
very simple question that requires little
more than honesty and common sense to
vote upon it. If our mothers are not fit to
vote they ought to stop bearing sons."
	The only one of the opposition one would
deign to run a tilt with is the redoubtable
hero (?) "from Davis."
	And as the "gentleman from Davis" was
so lionized we must examine his arguments
and ascertain what they are worth. Argu-
ment! Oratory there may have been to such
as sat under the spell of his voice. But
logic! Argument! Are they not mainly
conspicuous by absence? In his last speech
he throws a withering disdain upon the
poet as if he were quite too weak and
"soulful" to appreciate the majestic flights
of the orator. He, too, is magnanimous!
He is "in earnest—terribly in earnest"—
and for what? A threadbare, ragged, worn
out prejudice, or the music and tinkling
symbols of his voice? It would have been
more to his honor had he been armed with
something of the 'logic, philosophy and in-
cisiveness" he so bitterly mocked.
	But behold the terrible forces which he
has marshaled to the contest! And, especi-
ally, forget not the dramatic courage of a
hero digging his political grave in defense
of wrong and oppression! Ah, he was tre-
mendously in earnest about that grave, but
he was not without strong faith that he
should dump the majority of the Conven-
tion into its gloomy depth before himself,
and then, having killed the dragon "that
had risen from the ashes of the past to
plague them," and having scattered the
dragon's teeth by mighty oratory, he no
doubt hoped to see the armed giants rising
up out of the earth, terrible as an army
with banners to scare away the Tyrians
(the women) and follow him as their leader
to the erection of Thebes or the monument
of man, sole, unquestioned monarchy in
government. The poet! Heaven's blessing
rest ever upon him as the faithful, prophetic
watcher on the tower, catching the first
dim ray of advancing truth; and the orator,
if he were but careful, too, to "sharpen his
arrows in the silent surroundings of his
private study" that he might be armed
with thought, and if sincere prayer for
right enlightened his soul with truth, we
would not quarrel with his calling, either.
But when it becomes mere music to catch
the ovations of the multitude we are re-
minded of another poet who, after all, be-
ing but a poet, and a "poor, blind old

[Column 2]
schoolmaster" to boot," is perhaps beneath
the attention of a Demosthenes.
	This, too, may be "soulful," but, any-
way, he is bold enough to put it into the
mouth of the greatest of all earthly poets,
philosophers, philanthropists and orators
combined:
"For what is glory but the blaze of fame,
The people's praise, if always praise unmixt?
And what the people but a herd confused,
A miscellaneous rabble, who extol
Things vulgar and, well-weighed, scarce worth
	the praise?
They praise and they admire they know not what
And know not whom, but as one leads the other;
And what delight to be by such extolled?
To live upon their tongues and be their talk,
Of whom to be dispraised were no small praise?"
	As there are certainly no stars in my po-
litical horizon to be blotted out, if there be
political pabulum in this quotation, why,
"make the best of it!"
	Three speeches of upward of an hour
each, and yet the seeking after a real pearl
of thought throughout the whole mass of
rubbish is like the proverbial seeking for a
"needle in a straw stack!" Perhaps, how-
ever, in her cry for logic woman is but giv-
ing another proof of her "incapacity for in-
dependent" research as well as action, and
adding thereunto a flagrant proof of her
lack of intellect by her inability to duly ap-
preciate a flight of oratory for its sheer
music. Something in the poet's fix, you
know. But the most hardened orator would
not refuse her just a little sip, even though
God and nature, man and prehistoric cus-
tom, render her, by birth, quite incompe-
tent to drink deeply at the Pierian spring of
logic or oratory.
	First, then, we are confronted with the
chivalrous (?) assertion that we are really
not capable of exercising the franchis[-], that
the hearth must limit all our aspirations,
that women are sweet and pure and whole-
some around the fireside alone, and this
complemented by the proverbial curse of
Eve. Paul, too, is quoted, and we do not
see why he did not go on and quote Paul,
bidding us stay at home and learn of our
husbands, etc. Admitting Paul's fervent
zeal and matchless logic, we still hold that
the customs of his times in regard to women
will scarcely "wash" in our nineteenth
century, even making allowance for nine-
teenth century self-conceit and presumption.
	Then in regard to Eve's curse: Is it not
amusing, would it not be really laughable
were it not used as such a potent weapon
against us by cruel hands, to see how glibly
men can quote: Her desire shall be unto
her husband and he shall rule over her. If
you counter quote: So God created man in
His own image; male and female created
He them.
	And God blessed them, and God said unto
THEM, be fruitful, and multiply, and re
plenish the earth, and subdue it and HAVE
DOMINION, etc. They are not posted,
"not well up in the Bible anyway, you
know, never was very religious at best.
Don't take much stock in religion, you
see." Ah, no, plenty of them that "take
no stock in religion," except to remind
women of the curse of mother Eve—their
religion becomes quite eloquent then.
	Then if it be a curse would it not be more
in accord with the chivalry, justice, right-
eousness of a true manhood to ameliorate
and lighten so sweeping a degradation?
Adam's curse was to earn his bread by the
sweat of his brow. Does even our hero
"from Davis" object to a man’s accumula-
tion of sufficient wealth to make others do


[Column 1]
the toilsome sweating? And if a wife and
mother does the sweating over somebody’s
washing to help earn the daily bread while
the appointed toiler shirks his part and
lounges around polling booths or street cor-
ners discussing politics or woman’s rights
with cultured intelligence and profound
forethought (!) who would be so bold as to
proclaim that he is evading the law, dis-
torting the designs of his Creator, unsexing
himself, endangering the peace and comfort
of the home? Ah, no, woman must have
her rights; her rights to bear children in
sorrow and to rear them in like manner;
to yield gently, willingly to the rule of her
husband, to keep dutifully within the sphere
which he may limit and, in addition, bear a
heavy share of his burden beside. His
sphere who shall limit; his actions who
shall criticise; his unerring judgment who
shall question?
	Poor woman! There is danger to society,
to the home, to the children, if she be
trained to think; if her mind should wan-
der beyond her care of socks and buttons
and puddings, beyond fashion and the tire-
some dulness of conventional society.
Danger to society if she should be given a
personal incentive to study anything but
fashion and housekeeping. She may study
government for the sake of her influence
over male relatives, but it must be purely
from such feminine standpoint—not with
any hope of casting a personal vote for what
she may feel in her soul to be right. Influ-
ence! If her influence is of any use, or if it
can be admitted what is the danger of her
personal ballot with it? But that would be
unwomanly, and some one else might have
to rock the cradle or hold the baby while
she cast it. There is danger to society if
she gain a little ascendancy over her ages
and ages of subordination and oppression;
if, by giving her the ballot, whereby she
could help protect herself and the interests
of her fireside, she should gain a little self-
respect and command the respect of her
brother who knows too well, and does not
always forget to remind her, that she may
have ever so earnest and anxious convic-
tions, when he goes to the polls any value-
less son of Adam so long as he can stagger
there if it be in a drunken stupor, is worth
more than the whole union of intelligent
womanhood.
	Canaan fell under the heavy curse of ser-
vitude in the tents of his brethren, but the
intelligence of the age has seen fit to de-
clare that he has served long enough, and
that emancipation was but his human right.
But woman must never be emancipated
from the curse of Eve! All classes may rise
higher and higher toward the golden age of
perfection, attainment and power, but her
inferiority is a patent truth, “briefly and
forcibly expressed.” Adam still never for-
gets to make grimaces at her from behind
the tree and to remind her that “the woman,
she gave it me and I did eat.” “Though
at first so ready to yield to the tempter, she
has ever since been so ready to yield to the
voice of God” that even Mr. Roberts ac-
knowledges her, man’s moral superior. But
no faithfulness, no self-abnegation, no in-
tellectual attainment in her can ever satisfy
the demands of justice or lift her beyond
“the great truth” that she is a mentally in-
ferior creature, without inherent right to
rule herself or to consent to the laws which
she will be compelled to obey.
	Mr. Roberts forestalls opinions as to his
coldness or tyranny by referring to his life
of which he great public knows nothing

[Column 2]
and cares less. It is quite sufficient that
his doctrines confirm men in tyranny and
imagined superiority and while his wife
may sit in “pleasant places,” complacently
indifferent to the great heart-throbbing of
the wcrld beyond the narrow circle of her
daily life, it is not every woman who is so
fortunately situated, nor is Mr. R., with
all his wisdom, wise enough to predict just
how his nearest and dearest may end their
days. Personalities, however, cut no figure
in the clash and battle of ideas. We are
only seeking for the truth deep in the heart
of creation, and a narrow application of
God’s curse of Eve is neither manly, just or
chivalrous.
“Ah, I doubt not thro.’ the ages one increasing
	purpose runs
And the thoughts of men are widened with the
	process of the suns.
Not in vain the distance beckons. Forward, for-
	ward let us range,
Let the great world spin forever down the ringing
	grooves of change.
Thro.’ the shadow of the globe we sweep into the
	younger day;
Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of
	Cathay!”
Shall not women share the progress, the
advancement toward “the parliament of
man, the federation of the world,” when
“The common sense of most shall hold a fretful
	world in awe,
And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in uni-
	versal law?”
Shall we forget that “all those who re-
ceive ray Gospel are sous and daughters in
my kingdom?” Shall we be bound by the
narrow sphere of home alone when we re-
member Mary, who was so sweetly com-
mended by Christ, for having chosen the
better part? Shall we forget the equality
which he declared between the sexes in ex-
pounding the marriage law? Or shall we
shrink into our narrow round of domestic
drudgery and leave man sole proprietor of
the ennobling studies of government and the
exalting comprehension of the works of
creation in the “fairy tales of science,” be-
cause, forsooth, he has an inherent right to
prescribe what we shall or shall not do?
	With what solicitous love and passion
Mr. Roberts warns men to pray before they
admit the demon of politics to their firesides,
and how he pleads that women will with-
draw their senseless, unrighteous demands!
Woman suffrage may be a new idea to him
we should judge it to be so but it is not so
to all women, and Mr. Roberts must offer
us something better than past political his-
tory, made by men alone, before we can
accede to his anxious request. Then,
“eliminate politics from the fireside!” Per-
haps it, too, was merely music, but we
have often been consoled for our lack of the
reality by an offering of the ghost in this
shape or something similar: “Today God
has thrust responsibility upon every man
and woman; every man to know how to
vote, and every woman to see that he votes
right!” Use your influence, woman! Every
woman’s influence is a power! In a conver-
sation a day or two ago a gentleman asked
a lady of what political complexion she
was? “Why should I care to know?”
she asked, innocently, “it matters not on
election day it doesn’t count I have no in-
centive to that kind of study.” “Oh, but
your boys, your boys!” he replied, “you
should teach them!” Ah, indeed! Then
what about the fireside? Then Mr. Rob-
erts fairly raises the hair of our heads on
end with a cry of "Danger to our homes!"

[Column 3]
Now, what under the sun, is the danger?
Will not a little time given to the study of
government or politics be more bracing in
every way than general novel reading, and
is it not quite as fitting to a sensible human
being of either sex? Mr. Roberts knows
by experience, perhaps, or, at least, the
present writer does, that while the average         
novel is enervating both to body and mind,
the vigorous prosecution of science is invig-
orating, and we rise from its study with a
joy, a mental tone and vigor that gives also
tone to the body and elasticity in manual
pursuits. But, alas! Government and
science are unfeminine; novel reading is in
better taste. And no one will call in ques-
tion the tardiness of tea, disorder of the
kitchen, neglect of children or general good-
for-nothingness, if only Madam is not lit-
erary, scientific, or a defender of woman’s
rights. The poet again: Our Whittier
said: “I am not afraid that men will be-
come less manly or women less womanly
by giving suffrage to women.” And as to
divorces, the “test of the pudding is in the
eating,” and Wyoming, (oh, that I might
say New York, Mr. Roberts, but I cannot,)
declares that their register of divorces is
less in proportion to population than that
of any other State. The nature of men and
women cannot be changed by the ballot.
True to that nature, they unite in the home
as in politics, one complementing the other,
subduing, assisting, fulfilling, completing
what neither can do alone—what neither
was ever intended to do alone. Helpmeet,
companion, queen in the home, as he is
king, with superiority to neither, God de-
signed that companionship, that bearing of
one another’s burdens, sharers of each
other’s fortunes, for no narrow sphere.
	But why do we want the ballot? That is
too big a question to be answered in a news-
paper article. One reason is that we feel
politically degraded. Franklin said that to
be unenfranchised was to be in political
slavery. When the Government
wanted to punish Jefferson Davis for rebel-
lion they simply disfranchised him. We
have to endure taxation without represent-
ation, whereas the meanest transient of the
correct gender can vote for the disposal of
taxes women have to pay. We are a part of
the people who are amenable to the coun-
try’s laws, but we have no voice in those
laws; though governed we have no power
of consent. Woman’s claims to the right
of suffrage cannot be less inherent than that
of mans.
	We consider that government of a
people is as the government of a fam-
ly, but on a large scale, and believe that
the moral and intellectual counsel of women
through the ballot can be no danger, but of
incalculable value; and, further, as we are
equally interested in free trade or contra-
wise, in the licensing of various evils, in
taxation—in a word, since we are in reality
a part of the people, suffering in the adver-
sity of the country, glad in its prosperity,
anxious for its morals, proud of its honors,
sharers of its burdens, we demand the ballot
as a right through which to express our
will for all mutual good; and, above all
things for the good, the moral protection,
the education, the happiness of our chil-
dren—the very thing to which the most
radical anti-suffragist would point as our
first and greatest duty.
	Mr. Roberts rather likes the saying of
Luther (we presume he means St. Augus-
tine,) about the rib of Adam from which
God made Eve, that he might protect her


Let us try an interpretation of the rib, if
it were meant for a symbol, with a little
independent originality, begging pardon of
the great Roberts, and the greater Luther.
May we not read an equality in the glorious
symbol, a side by side companionship, an
“I am king and thou my sister queen,” (for
God bade them have dominion.) Indeed,
we would ask Mr. R. to go back and read
Augustine clearer, and not mislead himself
and others by a part, only, of the text.
	His “glowing apostrophe to woman,”
was no doubt worthy of a knight of chiv-
alry; but we have outgrown the Middle
Ages, thank heaven, and women to whom
the Creator has given brains for independent
thought and desire for independent action,
are but poorly satisfied with ever so liberal
a dose of “taffy” when they are asking for
a little substantial bread and meat. Our
darling poet’s apostrophe to woman’s right
to progress through the willing hand of
God’s providence and love, was a far
sweeter aud wholesomer morsel than a worn
out rag of ignorant chivalry. What a
broader, better, truer knighthood do we
recognize in our intelligent poet! How
truly “the highest peak of all.”
	Mr. Roberts does not deny our right to
education, our moral superiority, or our in-
fluence for purity and goodness. Well,
that was kind. But, really, education
makes us feel, more and more, the galling
bonds of political bondage; moral superior-
ty, it seems, can never compensate our first
unfortunate mistake in Eden, and our in-
fluence, however great and good and pure,
must be so shackled that our little sons
learn early to regard us with contempt,
(the most unkindest cut of all)! Must be
confined within such narrow limits to be
duly feminine, that we, who have felt and
found the shackles galling, (mothers,
wives are we, with women’s tender hearts),
would almost exclaim: Remove education,
give us the convent veil or the retirement
of the Turkish slave-wife, for with our
wider vision the load becomes too heavy,
and your praises seem but airy conceits, or
insults that sink too deep.
	His figure of the confluence of the Mis-
souri and Mississippi with but an ocean to
rest in, might not be inaptly put in another
way. Political power has so long been ex-
ercised by man alone, unchecked by wo-
man’s higher moral sense, until, so full of
moral filth, it has become like the great
Hoang Ho which, depositing its silt in its
bed as it flows, it rises higher and higher
until at length no hand can stay its violent
outburst to the utter destruction of a prov-
ince with its millions and millions of hu-
man lives. So our governments, defiled by
their own corruptions, break out in strikes
and insurrections, revolutions, wars—civil
and otherwise. Admit a purer stream to
make the filthy one less turbid, and the
catastrophe would at least occur at more
widely separate periods.
