[Desert Spring by Jessie M. Robinson]

Desert Spring Jessie M. Robinson The desert is a garden Of multi-colored cacti-bloom; Saguaros green and white are columns In a golden room. And sands are flaming music With ocatillos blossoming; And in the arching turquoise sky, The vagrant birds will sing. Within this temple garden, Slender yuccas, one by one, Will lift their ivory chalices In worship to the sun. AMAZING SEWING TIME SAVER RIP-A-SEAM ATTACHMENT Rips out seams twenty times faster than you can do it by hand MAKES ALTERATIONS, RE-STYLES, RENEWS, MAKES OVER REDECORATES SEW OUT AND SAVE Only $1.00 (check or bill) for this RIP-A-SEAM ATTACHMENT Fits all standard makes of sewing machines
USE COUPON BELOW
Mrs. John A. Rowe, Distributor RSM 5 2623
East 2900
South Salt Lake City, Utah Enclosed find $ 2..005 for RIP-A-SEAM attachments (postpaid). THE HISTORIC TRAIN leaves Salt Lake City, Utah AUGUST 1, 1952 for Denver, Kansas City, INDEPENDENCE, NAUVOO, CARTHAGE, Chicago, Cleveland, KIRTLAND, Niagara Falls, and the GREAT PAGEANT at the HILL CUMORAH! Also SHARON, VERMONT, New York, Philadelphia, Washington D. C., etc. For complete details write or phone VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966
East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Tel. 4-2017

From Near and Sar I have just read for the "manyth" time, your most inspirational editorial report of the October conference, 1951 (Relief Society Magazine, December 1951, page 830, editorial by Marianne C. Sharp). I read every word published in the Era of the conference speakers, and so far 'as women of the Church are concerned, your selection of statements of the brethren includes the most vital statements of the entire conference messages. 'Thank you, and heaven continue to bless your efforts. —Annie P. M. Hepworth Garberville, California It is with interest that I have just read the article "Individual Influence and Responsibility" (By Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, March 1952). In reference to front page headlines which appear south of "49," we, here, north of "49" also experience many similar headlines.
From these reports, it would be indicated that we (both North and South) should accept our "individual responsibility and inflence" in the upbuilding of our country and its people. As individual citizens and as organized groups, it becomes our duty to correct the conditions which exist. —H. E. Richardson Victoria, B. C., Canada. Thelma Hatch, author of the story "Every Night at Our House," page 303, is sixteen years old and lives in Bancroft, Idaho. She is a great-granddaughter of Parley P. Pratt. We returned from Mexico last week to find a pile of congratulation letters for my story "The Wearing of the Gay" (March 1952).
Since then I have had no end of calls and personal comments, all of which proves how well the Magazine is read. I believe the story "The Least of These" (third prize story, March 1952) is one of the finest stories I have ever read, and "Room for Phyllis' (by Alice Morrey Bailey) is one which all can profit by. Also, I would like to compliment Kay Islaub for her fine story "To Thine Own Self" in February, and also Hannah Smith's story "The House With the Blue Roof." —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho Please let Mrs.
Coles know how very much I admire her frontispiece poem "The Women of Nauvoo" in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I have heard my grandmother speak of the wonderful fortitude and courage of the women of Nauvoo. She was one of them. I especially like the two last lines of the poem. I once heard the deceased * Harrison R.
Merrill call Christie Lund Coles '"'the Sara Teasdale of Utah.' Her work is very lovely. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah Our family is enjoying the March Magazine. We are planning to use material from it for our next Family Hour. Our youngest daughter will retell Frances Yost's charming story "The Wearing of the Gay" (She loves its message and its gaiety); our school-teacher daughter will read "The Least of These," by Margery S. Stewart, and I shall read several poems, one of which will be "The Women of Nauvoo" by Christie Lund Coles. I am so grateful for Margery S. Stewart's story, as it gives a needed sermon without preaching.
Both our daughters liked the story "Room for Phyllis," by Alice Morrey Bailey. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I would like to mention the many letters which have come to me about the article: "A Faith-Promoting Memory" (Relief Society Magazine, November 1951), letters from all over the country, and two from daughters of Brother Hatch, mentioned in the article.
They remembered that he often referred to the trip described in the article. —Esther L. Warburton Evanston, Wyoming Being Indian, I really like the article "The Place of Relief.
Society in the Indian Program" (By Elder Delbert Leon Stapley, February 1952, page 76).
Both the Era and The Relief Society Magazine have really been an inspiration and help to me. —Mrs. Jennie Morn Wolf Point, Montana Reading for May: Brigham Young and Church History Discourses of Brigham Young Selected and arranged by Dr. John A Widtsoe. In this book Brigham Young speaks for himself and shows the coherent system of faith which he lived and taught. It shows how he applied the simple principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. #300
Brigham Young, The Man and His Work —By Preston Nibley. The intimate life story of the great Mormon colonizer and leader, with special stress on his, teachings as set forth in his letters, sermons, and writings, many of them 00 never before published.