[Vol33 | May 1946 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Women Poets in Review Hart]

Women Poets in Review Anna Boss Hart Member of the Relief Society General Board PART I COME with me to greet a few C of our women poets in review. We will not linger long today, however great or well-known the poets may be, but you may wish to become better acquainted with them in your home and spend many hours with each one in your own cosy reading nook. You will be in awe of some and treat others as casual friends.
This is such an inviting time of the year to greet new and old friends? book friends.
Just as soon as there is a tinge of spring in the air and peace in our hearts, we receive new life; we hear overtones in nature; color is richer; life is more abundant. Let us meet some of our women poets whose poetry sings this spring day. Francis Ludlow has said that women whether real or imaginary? escape all classification.
These women who pass in review have a special gift the gift of poetry, a rare gift. "Poetry is simply the most beautiful, impressive and widely effective mode of saying things," said Matthew Arnold. The poet fixes landmarks that our children's children may see and travel better for seeing. It is true that many a poet "puts out a finger, and leaves a star wherever he touches." A poet is happy when he finds the unwritten poems men live by.
Poets often feel symphonies in song that others never hear. How strangely Page 298 susceptible to divine inspiration they are! And now, as we skip the centuries, we greet Sappho whose name has outlasted "floods and hurricanes, the erosions of rain and frost and famine, and all the wars." The beautiful Sappho, a name which the Greeks for more than a thousand years placed next to that of the great Homer. Her image was stamped upon coins. She loved nature and had the power to express in striking language the living beauty of her surroundings.
Sappho had the power to be direct, intense, strong that "wondrous creature without comparison during her time." In the words of the ancient epigram: Sappho's white, speaking pages of deaf song Yet linger with us, and will linger long. During Sappho's time the genius of women developed itself to a degree unsurpassed for a thousand years. In the highlands of her home country, Lesbos, women enjoyed more culture than elsewhere. She was one of the founders of the lyric poetry of the world. Alcaeus, her townsman, and one who shared the honor of being a founder of lyric poetry, addressed to her these exquisite lines: Violet-crowned, pure, sweetly smiling Sappho. WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW Few facts of her life are known. She was born in 612 B. C. No doubt she knew by heart her Homer and Hesiod.
Many were her admirers, and one fortunate admirer won her hand. By him she had a daughter, named after her own mother, Cleis: I have a little maid, as fair As any golden flower, My Cleis dear, For whom I would not take all Lydia, Nor lovely Lesbos here.
What a picture of the southern summer, with its noonday siesta in _ the open air, we have in her lines: The lullaby of waters cool Through apple boughs is softly blown, And shaken from the rippling leaves, Sleep droppeth down. She knew, too, that she herself would not be easily forgotten: I think there will be memory of us yet, In after days. 299
Sappho lived to a ripe old age, and died leaving a name which Plato called the "tenth muse." 

we will meet one of the greatest of the singing women of England, who lived centuries after Sappho. She is Christina Georgina Rossetti, whose matchless lyrics cause her to loom above other women of her period. She was born in London, December 5, 1830, of Italian origin, daughter of Gabriel Rossetti, a well-known commentator on Dante. We can imagine the four Rossetti children in the garret spending the time together before their bedtime. Christina, the youngest of the four, would be listening to Maria tread aloud, while her brothers, Gabriel and William, colored prints. Already, as a young child, Christina was religious and reflective. At eighteen she resembled Gabriel's A Perry Picture SAPPHO From a Painting by Alma Tadema (1836-1912) A Perry Picture ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING (1806-1861) painting of Mary, the Virgin, for which she had posed. Within Christina there was a "keen, white sharpness, protecting, like a coat of armor, something she held above the treasures of the world." One would not expect this when her outward appearance was soft and womanly. Her poetry reflected her life. Sometimes, painting her sheets of paper, knitting, or going about her duties, she looked on the world with shining eyes: My heart is like a singing bird Whose nest is in a watered shoot; My heart is like an apple tree Whose boughs are bent with thickset fruit; My heart is gladder than all these Because my love is come to me.... "Song" and "Remember," and  many others of her exquisite poems should be read and reread. As she grew older she seemed to become a younger sister of her mother.
After the last link that still held her to the world had snapped, she lived on in the hope of life everlasting, where all she held dear awaited her. mention Elizabeth Barrett Browning in review, brings to us the remembrance of a poet loved and well-known. Elizabeth Barrett Browning (1806-1861) led a life exceptional in various ways.
Possessed of a sturdy soul in a frail body? "her mind was disciplined by an un- _ usual education and her character by prolonged illness." Her father built for the family a mansion of oriental splendor, and there he placed every one of his children "in a gilded cell and locked the door."
Elizabeth often longed "to slip downstairs through all the sleepy house and escape."
There were but two secrets that she kept from her father, forbidden books and_ her dear friendship for Robert Browning. It was on May 20, 1845, that Robert Browning was at last permitted to come to Wimpole Street. When Elizabeth took matters into her own hands and set sail for Italy as Mrs. Robert Browning, her father said, "My daughter is now in her grave. Let us forget the dead." Her poetry increased in depth and beauty from the happiness of her marriage, yet the love sonnets written to Robert Browning during their courtship days are exquisite in thought and structure.
When her husband saw these poems, he prevailed upon her to have them WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW published as "Sonnets from the Portuguese."
What favorites these sonnets are! I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death. But love me for love's sake, that evermore Thou mayest love on through love's eternity.
Just three days after Elizabeth's forty-third birthday, a son was born to them. And from her newborn babe she felt a newborn strength.
That was the peak of her happiness! Again, how sad she must have felt when she tremblingly read a letter and found a package from her father, addressed to Robert Browning: In the accompanying package you will find the letters sent to me by your wife. All these letters, you will note, have remained unopened. The seals upon them are still intact. Elizabeth's father died shortly after the return of the letters. The news of his death brought on a collapse from which Elizabeth never fully recovered. She has left us poetry full of living fire.