[Vol33 | May 1946 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: In Memoriam President Barker]

These and every other virtue that contribute to ideal motherhood, I associate with you, My Mother! In Memoriam President Louise Y. Robison Counselor to Sister Robison in the Relief Society General Presidency (This address was delivered at the funeral services for Sister Robison held in the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, Utah, Thursday, April 4, 1946.) TODAY, for the first time, I have the responsibility of speaking in this building without Sister Robison at my side. On all other occasions, knowing that I was frightened, she would reach her hand out to mine and say, "You can do it." And somehow, when she said this, we stood up and with the help of the Lord did our best. I feel that she is encouraging me now, that I can see her sweet smile and that she is telling me that no matter if I fail to express adequately what is in my heart, she knows what I feel and think, and how ardently I would love to give fitting utterance to my and your admiration and love. I am sure that all our hearts are filled to overflowing with pride and gratitude. We are proud that one whom we love so dearly has gloriously prepared herself for a greater work. We are proud of the honor. Sister Robison brought to the Church and to the Relief Society in all the contacts she made, national and international. We are proud that we are numbered among her friends. We are deeply grateful for her lovely self, for her beautiful life, that we were so blessed as to be permitted to work with her. We a grateful that she was our president.
There is sadness in our hearts for we know that something lovely has gone from our lives. No more will come those precious letters so full of love and encouragement, that always came when needed. She gave us so much of sweetness, she poured so much of warmth into our hearts. How we shall miss her! But we know that our sorrow is for our own great loss. We know that this is a glorious day for Sister Robison ? Commencement Day ? and that she graduated with the highest honors. We know that her beautiful, radiant personality, her charm, her poise, her captivating sense of humor, her graciousness, her sympathy, her great love, her abiding testimony ?all of those qualities which made her a great leader, so lovable and beloved will go with her and be intensified in her new sphere of activity.
Someone has said that the happiest person is the one who thinks the most interesting and beautiful thoughts, and that such a person never grows old, but grows happier as the years pass.
This was true of Sister Robison. The last time I talked with her she was not well.
Though nothing could dim her radiant spirit, her delightful humor, yet I sensed a yearning of her soul for higher things, for greater service. Page 295. Kate M. Barker PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON LOUISE y. ROBISON The opportunity for greater service has come.
What a wonderful lifetime of service she has given here—eleven years of which she was president of the great Relief Society of the Church.
Translate this into kind words, encouraging words, inspirational words, into kind deeds, into days and years spent in seeking those things that would enrich the lives of the women of the Church, and what a glorious record we have. She gave so generously of her time and always of herself, we wondered at her vitality. She gave so cheerfully. I have told her many times that she must be a great joy to her Father in heaven, she served him so cheerfully.
She was always solicitous of the women and so appreciative of their work. She so loved the "Singing Mothers" and I know how beautifully she would express her appreciation of this group today who have come to sing to do honor to her. When she stood before a group and said, "Dear Sisters," something went from her heart to touch our heartstrings and we had a spiritual feast.
Probably her greatest contribution to Relief Society was the strengthening of the ties of unity, love, and co-operation. She traveled much, visiting wards and stakes and missions, and every visit strengthened the bonds of love and friendship.
Her vision of Relief Society was one of sisterhood and friendliness. Hear her plea:
"In some of the wards we still find there is lack of hospitality. We go to a meeting and are so in earnest in the work we are doing, that we are not as attentive as we might be to those fine women who come to our meetings. We do not feel that
way when a friend comes. We are happy to have her come and we tell her so. Cannot we take this hospitality into our ward Relief Societies?
"There is nothing in the world that makes work go so smoothly as to be thoughtful and courteous to everyone."
She exemplified this kindness in her own contacts. How often she expressed her love and appreciation to the Relief Society workers:
"Often we know that you have patiently labored with sad hearts and tired hands to render the service required in these times of distress, and no cry for help has gone unheeded. From our hearts we thank you. We honor you and love you . . . We face the future with confidence and hope born of our faith in you and in the gospel of our Savior, Jesus Christ."
I have heard both officers and members say: "Oh, Sister Robison, we can get so close to you and feel you are close to us."
One bishop in a remote ward said, "Sister Robison belongs to the Church—not to one ward or stake. We all feel she belongs to us."
She truly had that great gift, "the understanding heart—the human touch."
In one of her addresses, she told of the night in Gethsemane, when the Savior, knowing that he was facing a terrible ordeal, could have called legions to help him, but he took his friends with him and said, "Tarry ye here, and watch with me." He was sorrowful unto death and while he prayed they slept, and when he came to them he said, "What, could ye not watch with me one hour?" (Matthew 26:40).