	OUR LESSONS.

	Well, since this life is a school, preparatory
to the next stage of action, we would ask,
“What is our lesson for to-day?”  Well, I
hardly think the old lesson of being as “wise as
serpents and harmless as doves” has been
studied and reduced to practice sufficiently to
take a new one.
	We find when we are associated with those
who measure themselves by the same pattern
and live by the same rule as our Savior, we
think we are progressing finely. But suddenly
some tinsel show attracts our attention, and,
being fond of the beautiful, our attention is
held, until we are charmed by its harmless and
beautiful appearance. We ask ourselves, may
we not grasp the golden prize?
	We soon find, by making a desperate effort
on our part, and perhaps making a sacrifice of
something else, that the prize is ours. We feel
happy for a moment that our efforts were
blessed in obtaining it. Suddenly a disap-
pointed feeling comes over us; this prize does
not afford true and lasting comfort; it is fleeting
and transitory, like all other worldly treasures,
unless put to usury.
	We turn our eyes within, and ask, “How do
I stand in the sight of my Heavely Father?
It seems that my feet are sinking to the under-
current. Was this indeed the wisest course
to pursue? Will the result be all that I de-
sired?”
	This may be a profitable lesson for the future,
but in reality of no real worth when compared
with the riches of eternity.
	Jesus, the Savior of the world, taught His
disciples what those riches were. In applying
your mind to those riches, you will soon find
how much nobility of character you possess.
Narrow, contracted minds cannot grasp the
glorious truths or comprehend them, because
the mind must be prepared by the existence of
the divine nature. Yes, the gift of the Holy
Ghost to truly conceive their real value, and
enable you to act in sincerity of heart. The
Lord requires those who worship Him to do it
in sincerity and truth.
	Jesus once said, “Those who love anything
more than me, are not worthy of me.” This
passage was repeated not long since in the pre-
sence of a lady, who remarked, “Well, I know
the Lord does not expect me to love Him more
than my baby boy, whose sweet prattle and
bright eyes take my whole attention. He
could not expect me to love one I do not see,
as I do my boy. Surely that love is pure and
heavenly, because the object of my love is
pure.” But how is your parental love? Your
parents loved and cherished you as fondly as
you do the boy. How many years have they
been your guardians, shield and protectors,
teaching you virtuous, honorable and upright
principles, to save you from vice and ruin, and
keep your feet in the paths of joy and peace?
Their experience and intelligence, which they
gain from time to time, is always kept in re-
serve for your benefit; you can go to them for
counsel, which will benefit you, because of their

[Column 2]
age and experience; they are qualified to teach
you in many things.
	Could you be so ungrateful and so short-
sighted as to neglect to give your best affections
to god-like and honorable parents, whose whole
soul is interested in their offspring, to comfort
and bless and lead their minds on to true in-
telligence? We are naturally lovers of intelli-
gence, especially when combined with wis-
dom to govern and control the affairs of
families or associations.
	How much gratitude do we owe, then, to our
Heavenly Father, the head of all science, the
ruler of the universe, who gives unto all their
agency; to seek knowledge from Him, or
otherwise, as we choose. I think the love we
have for a superior, who is properly apprecia-
ted, is greater than that of an inferior, although
it may be a dear child. I would not say it
was not most pure; however, for children are
pure, and, oh, how important that they always
remain the same.
	I greatly admired an illustration of Prest.
Heber C. Kimball’s. He spoke of a friend of
his who was going up the river to visit a rela-
tive; he took a skiff and plied the oars manfully,
until he came in sight of his relative’s residence,
when he began to feel quite exhausted, and
said, “I must rest; I can see the house, and will
soon be there.” Accordingly, he laid down his
oars, laid himself down also, and dropped off
to sleep; when he awoke he found himself far
below the starting point.
	“This,” said he, “is our position to-day. We
are going up stream against the current of
popular opinion. Yes, as much so to day as
when this Gospel was preached by Jesus, our
Savior.” He remarked, “This is our situation
to-day. We gain strength by exercise; not by
over-doing or over-reaching, but by caution,
and carefully applying the oars and developing
the little strength we have to-day, we can, if
we observe the word of wisdom, gain renewed
strength from the fountain.” These are lessons
which we, as a people, have proved to be bene-
ficial, especially when we realize that this is
the dispensation of the fulness of times, when
all things which have transpired in ages past
will again appear.
	Believing this, we hope to see the human
family return to their sober senses in the near
future. I believe a portion of them will have
the humility to see themselves as they truly
are, dependent upon an alwise Father for every
faculty, both mental and physical, which they
possess. There are a few of this class living
among the masses to-day; there are others who
realize they have good abilities and can arrive
at great attainments through these faculties,
yet their vanity causes them to think they
know enough to judge the world.
	Well, St. Paul once said that we are as sub-
ject to vanity as the sparks which fly upward.
This vanity, you will see, is a great detriment,
because it hinders us from making the improve-
ment we would otherwise make, when we are
more childish and humble.
	We are looking forward to a time when the
human family will see themselves as they
truly are in the sight of their maker. Did
they see themselves to-day they would not re-
ject the message sent them to prepare for the
second coming of our Savior.
	I would compare them to little children with
their Christmas toys. They enjoy them so
well, they will not heed the call of their
parents to put them by and attend to some-
thing of more importance. No, this they call
cruel and a great sacrifice of their feelings.
While some are reckless and wayward, others
are obedient, having more filial love and venera-
tion for their parents.
	Now, I would ask, which will make the
greatest progress and become the most useful
man? Who will comprehend the designs and
purposes of an alwise Parent so readily as a

[Column 3]
faithful and dutiful child? May we prove to
be one of this number.
	M.  E. KIMBALL
	Nov. 28th, 1887.


