UTAH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake convened in the meeting
house at Provo City, Dec. 9th, 1887, Prest
John presiding, assisted by her Counselors;
Sister Elizabeth Howard, from Salt Lake, also
present. Conference opened by singing and
prayer, reading of minutes of former confer-
ence, etc.
	Prest. John said, "A few of us have met to-
gether in conference, and I ask God for His
Holy Spirit to be with us while we are together.
I am pleased to meet with my sisters again; let
us be united and be charitable one to another
humble and kind, willing to overlook each
other's weaknesses and imperfections; never
criticise the speaking of our sisters; we are all
new beginners; let us bear our testimonies to
the truth of this work. I wish to bear my
testimony to the truth of celestial marriage;
I know the sisters are tried at present, but be
patient and all will come out right in the end;
let us pray for strength"
	Sister Marilla Daniels said, "It is with
pleasure that I meet with you again after my
journey out in the world." The speaker gave
quite an interesting account of her journey
among friends in the East, and also across the
ocean to Europe, and spoke of her pleasure in
being home again and mingling with the
Saints.
	Sister Howard, the next speaker, was pleased
to meet with the sisters in Provo; hoped she
should have the faith and prayers of all, that
she might be enabled to say something that
would be beneficial to us. "It is just as neces-
sary for us to come to meeting to be instructed
as it is to eat our food. Let us do right; if we
are right and trying to do right we need not
care what others say of us. Let us uever say
anything but good of our sisters" Spoke on
order and punctuality and as the time was spent.
the conference adjourned till 2 p.m. Benedic-
tion by Emily G. Cluff.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p.m., with
usual exercises, after which Sister Howard re-
sumed her remarks, giving a very interesting ac-
count of the Sisters' Conference held in S. L.
City on the previous day; also read from the
EXPONENT the last-remarks of Sister E. R
Snow Smith at a Relief Society meeting; also
gave the sisters much useful counsel and ad-
vice on various subjects calculated to benefit
the sisters, etc. Said, "The enemy is trying in
every way to overcome and destroy us. Mothers
should educate their daughters in the ways of
the Lord; teach them what they are here for;
teach our boys to be honest and upright; let
us pray for the Spirit of God, that we may
learn of His ways; we must be continually on
the watchtower; let us take care of our bodies,
so that we will not need doctors; we will have
faith and power enough yet that we will ask
God and He will heal our children; let us not
be wrong-doers, but wise as serpents and harm-
]ess as doves. We must bring our minds in
conformity to the will of the Almighty." Spoke
of the cast that was growing up in our midst,

[Column 2]

and said the Lord was not well pleased on ac-
count of it. "Let us not forget our prayers,
nor forget to pray for our brethren who are in
prison for conscience' sake. Father's hand is
in everything, and He overrules all things for
the good of Zion; it behooves us to be faithful
and pure; we are the salt of the earth, the light 
of the world; the Lord's work is wonderful."
The speaker exhorted the sisters to come to
meeting and get the Spirit of God to help
them. "Teach your children to read the Con
stitution of the United States and all good
books, and gain knowledge for themselves. I
pray that the Lord will pour out His Spirit
upon all, in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Prest. Smoot said, "I have listened with
pleasure to the remarks of Sister Howard per-
taining to the interests of Zion. We are all
prone to evil, yet the Lord has instituied
principles, that if we heed, we will be enabled
to overcome. Among the true Saints there are
no classifications; the poor and the meek will
inherit the earth, so say all the prophets, and
our Savior called or chose the poor of the
earth to do His bidding; our sympathy should
be towards them. When this earth is redeemed
all who serve the Lord will meet on this earth
in its purified state, aud we will have a Sab-
bath of rest, free from all our troubles, ruled
over by our Savior; the Lord has promised
these things to His people. We should begin 
to-day to put away our follies and be independ-
ant; we will then begin to live the celestial
law; we talk about a celestial law, but we know
very little about it Eternal life is the greatest
gift of God, and if we gain it we must live for
it; if we cannot abide our covenant, we had
better not make them; if we can live up to
them it is well. Obedience is better than Sacri-
fice—obedience to the law of God or the sacred
oracles; our Savior said, 'My sheep know my
voice and will follow me, but they know not
the voice of a stranger.'" The speaker spoke
of the great responsibility resting on mothers
in the teaching of their childien; said, "Train
your daughters to be modest and plain, and
sociable with one another; be not proud; we
make ourselves slaves to Babylon; let us make
our adornments the work of our own hands; it
is better to seek the riches of eternity than
Babylon; be careful to make home happy, that
your children will think home is the best place
for them; be of good cheer you are doing a
good work, and the Lord will bless you there-
in," etc.
	Father Graves spoke a short time in the in-
terest of the silk association, followed by Sister
M. A. Till, President of the Society in Utah
Stake. She had some handkerchiefs on exhi-
bition manufactured from cocoons raised by
the sisters; the handkerchiefs were for sale;
there were also "two pieces of goods on hand.
which it was proposed to donate to the Temple
at Manti, to aid in the furnishing or decorating
of the same. A vote was taken and carried
unanimously; that it be given to the Temple.
	Sister John made a few explanatory remarks
concerning the goods, saying that the means to
purchase the cocoons, from which the goods
had been manufactured, had been donated by
the sisters of the Society, and, therefore she
thought it but right to get their vote as to its
disposal, and also to give it as a donation from
Utah Stake.
	Sister Standring spoke of the advantages of
these Societies, in educating the sisters in the
things of the kingdom of God. Said, "We
will each be judged by our own works," etc.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff said she felt the Spirit
of the Lord had been with us; we had also
been blest in having Sister Howard and Prest.
Smoot with us to instruct us "We ought to
live in such a way that we would have the
Spirit of God with us at all times "
	Sister John felt to rejoice at the good spirit
that had been,with us to-day. We will now

[Column 3]

adjourn our counference for three months."
Benediction by Mother Duke.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


