BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety ot Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City, Dec. 13th, 1887.
Prest. Harriet Snow presiding. After singing
the hymn, "Once more we come before Thee,
Lord," prayer was offered by Coun. Widerborg.
Singing. "What was witnessed in the heavens."
	Prest. Hart iet Snow made a few opening re-
mark.
	Coun. Susannah P. Booth spoke at some
length upon the duties of mothers; encouraged
all to be energetic in performing all their
duties.
	Sister Hardy, from Willard City, reported
verbally. Spoke in loving terms of their
President. Related a dream; how the Lord
showed her to be contented in her circum-
stances.
	Sister Jensen, of Mantua, said: "We ought to
be satisfied with our lot wherever it is cast. I
used to think it ever I should share my home
and husbaud with others, it surely would kill
me, but now I have lived in the principle of
celestial marriage for eleven years, I find my-
self happy and satisfied."
	Sister Fannie Graehl: "I feel well to be one
with my sisters, and always feel that the testi-
mony of my elder sisters is true."
	Sister Albertsen of Bear River City: "I
have a testimony for myself; we should be true
and honest in all thiugs."
	Prest H. Snow moved we adjourn till 2
o'clock.
	Singing, "Come, come, ye Saints," etc. Bene-
diction by Prest. Mary Andersen.
	Afternoon session: Singing, "Praise ye the
Lord." Prayer by Emilia D. Madsen. Sing-
ing, "God moves in a mysterious way."
	Coun Widerborg: "The subject touched
upon this morning. the organization of the
Relief Society: is a grand one, when carried out
rightly." Related an incident to show how
much comfort we have received many times in
meeting together, in our trials Reported the
Scandinavian Society. "They have, by gather
ing together their small units, gathered from
the old country eighteen  persons. I am thank-
ful for every day we can feel that our whole
heart is in the service of God."
	Prest. Mary Andersen: "I realize that if we
have the Spirit of the Lord it matters not if
we say little or much; it will comfort some one.
If we earnestly search ourselves we will have 
plenty to do with No 1"
	Prest. Watkins spoke of the trying circum-
stances many are placed in at the present time,
and the death of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith.
"Let us try to carry out the instructions she
has given us."
	Sister Cordon: "I am thankful that I have
a standing in this Church," Bore a strong
testimony to the principle of celestial marriage.
	Sister Susannah Facer: "My whole heart is
in the kingdom of God; we know we are in the
hands of the Lord; we know we are trying to
serve Him, and our enemies say we shall not,
but if we try to live right before the Lord
daily, He will stand by us; persecution is good
for us."

[Column 2]

	Bro. E. A. Box encouraged the sisters in
teaching each other; our duties to our children
cannot too often be mentioned; we should know
what kind of company our children are keep-
ing. "Let us be alive to our calling; when we
come in contact with one who is weak in faith,
let us sow faith where there is none, and reap
peace and happiness."
	Emilia D. Madsen made a few remarks; said
we should acknowledge the hand of the Lord in
all things.
	Bro. Wixum said, "In receiving the Gospel
we become initiated in the relationship of
Christ. Jesus said, 'Who is my brother and 
my sister? Those who serve me in righteous-
ness.'"
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing "O, my Father, Thou that dwellest."
Benediction by Susannah P. Booth.
