NEW YORK LETTER.

	January 1st, l888.
MY DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been so much engaged in humanitarian
work, that I have neglected to render due thanks
for your valuable little paper, although its interest
has not been lost, as it has made many friends to 
your associations,especially to the Mormon women;
it has opened the eyes of those who have perused
it to a better understanding of the Mormons' re-
ligious principles, which the general population
of the world does not understand. A few women
have been to Salt Lake City, for the purpose of
giving lectures on their return, and these only
falsified facts for a selfish purpose.
	Allow me to say, the contents of your little
EXPONENT are exceedingly entertaining. Among
the several weekly papers I receive, it is discussed
and treasured. Many ladies who have read it have
changed their ideas from horror to a friendly na
ture towards the Mormon women. The Constitu-
tional Convention is a wise movement at this time,
Utah should be free from slavery, and take her
place in line, with free and equal rights, as a
State.
	The Mormon people, who were driven from their
homes on account of their belief as a religious
sect, founded on the same book, and representing
the same principles as the various church sects
and creeds—but these various sects and creeds
have ever, disagreed from the first organization, of
divisions, from the time of the Christian dynasty.
	The rights of individual religions have
been fought, and the followers persecuted,
tortured and murdered as the Mormons;they have
been driven from their homes, through forests,
and over praries, and been hunted from state to
state, as though they were wild beasts of prey,
men pursuing them, and they fleeing before the
pursuers; women with infants in their arms and
young children following as they could, sleeping
at night in the wilderness, where wolves made the
night hideous with their howl, or on the praries,
where insects, serpents and lizards crawl around
them, still listening to the click of the rifle in the
hand of their pursuers.
	Alas! what do the priests, guides and Levites do
to-day under the term, free and independent na-
tional laws? Drive innocent religionists (like
those of the fifth century) fleeing in search of a
home and peace. They were cast into prison, and
shot even in prison walls, as though they were
wild beasts of prey. Such is orthodoxy, and yet
it is not dead; it still struggles to live, yet fast ap-
proaches its destination of death.
	At length they came out of the forest into a
desolate plain; no green grass, tree or shrub to
welcome them with a smile, or greet them with the
wave of a bough; the earth was crusted over, as
far as the eye could extend, with a carbonous
white substance, with a scattering of sagebrush,
the only indication of life.
	These persecuted people, citizens of a Republi-
can freedom and liberty, forced on, came to an
entrance between two massive, lofty mountains; it
appeared to them like a large gate thrown open
for their reception and protection, by the Great
Spirit whom they worship. Within this space
was no tent or cabin, no stream of the bright
sparkling water of life to refresh their weary and
torn bodies; they settled upon this desolate spot,
as the ancient Pilgrims who landed on our eastern

[Column 2]

shoresover two hundred years ago,who fell on their
knees on the Plymouth Rock, to give thanks for
their safe arrival; these people also fell on their
knees to render thanks for their escape from their
pursuers. Yet they have been persecuted in many
forms since, and yet are not free from persecution;
still they live, and have made that desolate land
bud and blossom as a full blown rose of many
colors.
	Please accept my best wishes, as ever,
