MEMORIAL SERVICES.

	Funeral services in honor of Sister E. R. Snow
Smith were held in the Nephi Tabernacle, on
Wednesday, Dec. 7th, 1887, at 12 o'clock, Prest.
Mary Pitchforth presiding. Choir sang,

	"Thou dost not weep, to weep alone."

	Prayer was offered by President Charles Sperry.
The choir sang,

	"Rest for the weary soul."

	Prest. Pitchforth said we had met to pay a
tribute of respect to our friend and sister, Sister
E. R. Snow Smith. She was The Elect Lady of
Zion, and was a noble woman, and she proved
herself worthy of the trust committed to her care.
Told of Sister Snow's kindness when the valleys
were first settled. "We mourn her loss and so-
ciety, but cannot help but rejoice that she re-
mained true and faithful." Hoped we would emu-
late her virtues and follow her example. She had
finished her work and gone to her reward, but she
would live in the hearts of the Saints forever.
"Every Latter day Saint owes Sister Eliza a tribute
of respect."
	Sister A. L. Bigler read from the Deseret News
a sketch of her life.
	Sister Maranda Bryan said Sister Snow had
lived a pure life. "We should try to emulate her
noble example."
	Sister Jane Picton said we had met on this
peculiar occasion to how our respect to the
honored dead. "Our sister was endowed with
precious gifts; her name is immortalized; she has
done much good in organizing, and we should be
grateful to our Father that she lived as long as she
did. May it be said of us when we have departed,
'They have kept the faith and been true to the
end.' " Singing,

	"Sister, thou wast mild and loveIy."

	Sister A. L. Bigler said all who would hear or
read of Sister Snow would respect her, and she
would live forever in our memories. She desired
to be humble and faithful.
	Sister Hannah Grover felt that no good word
that could be said was too much for Sister Snow.
She had gone home to her Father's house, and
there was rejoicing there. She knew that our Sis-
ter was the Prophet's wife when he was living.
She had been intimately associated with Sister
Snow in the Temple, and she loved to look upon
her beautiful face. "It would be well for us to
square ourselves and follow her example."
	Sister M. E. Teasdale felt incapable of speak-
ing on such an occasion. She loved Sister Snow,
and she highly prized a letter lately received from
her. She had gone to associate with her husband
and all the faithful Saints who had passed away,
and she thought there was great rejoicing when
she returned.
	Patriarch J. G. Bigler spoke of his early ac-
quaintance with Sister Snow, and of her integrity
under all circumstances. Spoke of her valuable
writings; said they were appreciated.
	Prest. Sperry told some interesting incidents
connected with his acquaintance with Sister Snow.
Said her name would be handed down to posterity.


"Let us emulate her example and make a success
of this life." Choir sang,

	"Creation speaks with awful voice."

Benediction by Bro. George Kendall.
