SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the San Juan Stake, held at Bluff,
Dec. 4th, 1887, Prest. Jane M. Walton presid-
ing. Singing, "Joy to the world." Prayer by
Bishop Jens Neilson. Singing, "Torn from
our friends."
	Prest, Jane Walton made a few opening re-
marks; was glad to have the privilege of hold-
ing conference; would like to visit the several
branches in the Stake as soon as opportunity
offered; was sorry there was no one to represent
the different wards present.
	Minutes of the previous conference were
then read and approved, and the officers sus-
tained.
	Prest. J. M. Walton reported the Bluff
Ward; believed that there was a good feeling
among the sisters; she had full love and confi-
dence in them all; she hoped and trusted the
Society would prosper. Said that they had
money to buy grain, and hoped that some time
they would have a place to put it in. Spoke
of the principle of plural marriage, and said
she had a testimony for herself that it was
true.
	Prest. Josephine Wood reported the Prim-
ary of Bluff; said that the children were doing
as well as they could; felt willing to do all she
could to help them.
	Prest. Julia Butt said she had had no oppor-
tunity to visit any of the Primary Associations,
but thought they were doing well.
	Sister Betsy Burnham represented the Burn-
ham Ward; said they all felt well and were 
doing well.
	Prest. Margaret Nielson represented the
Young Ladies of Bluff Ward; said they were
doing as well as could be expected.
	Mary N. Jones spoke, and said she felt like
doing all the good she could. Wished that the
young would put in practice all the good coun-
sel that had been given during conference. Be-
lieved the sisters took great interest in their
meetings.
	Coun. Kisten Nielson said she could not
express her feelings as she would like; she
knew there was a great work to perform.
	Coun. Maggie Walton said she felt to do good
and improve, and hoped the young ladies
would be humble and prayerful and keep the
word of wisdom, and store their minds with
useful knowledge.
	Sister Martha Hammond said the sisters of
the Mancos Ward were storing up grain, and
felt that the brethren were sustaining them.
	Sister H. Barton said she wished to teach
her children correct principles; thought our
husbands should encourage us all they could.
	Prest. F. A. Hammond felt that we had been
abundantly blest, and that the Spirit of the
Lord had been with us. He hoped there was
no sister but what had her name enrolled in
the Relief Society, and all the young ladies.
Was pleased to live to see the time when


[Column 1]

woman had come to live in her proper place
this being the only Church where woman was
given her proper place; said they were help-
mates in the kingdom of God. Spoke at some
length on the usefulness of woman. Gave very
good counsel to the different Societies; wished
some of the brethren would get ready and take
the Stake Officers around to visit the different
wards. Wished the young men and young
ladies would get good books and study them.
	Sister Jane M. Walton made some closing
remarks, and adjourned conference for three
months.
	Choir sang, "Nearer, my God, to Thee."
Benediction by Coun. Wm. Halls.
		JULIA BUTT, Secretary.

