DEAR ELLA:
	For five years past you have occupied the labori-
ous position as Secretary in our Mutuals, and have
been untiring in performing the many duties de-
volving upon you.
	At every meeting you have blessed us with your
presence and aid, always on time and at your post,
unswerving in the performance of your duties, and
striving to help those around you.
	It has ever been your object to spread sunshine
in the paths of the discouraged, to cheer the
hearts of those in sorrow, and to alleviate the bur-
dens of the depressed. From your noble charac-
ter, full of love, charity, sympathy, patience, and
others of those attributes which win love and ap-
preciation, we realize in you a faithful and valu-
able friend, and an example we will gain much by
following. We feel blessed by your presence,
and as sincere friends we desire to express our
feelings of gratitude and appreciation for the great
good you have been and still are doing for us.
	Accept, dear friend, this gift as a token of
esteem from us, and ever remember that no matter
where you may go, you will carry the love, respect
and best wishes of the band of sincere friends
with whom you have been associated in the Y. L.
M. I. A. of the 17th Ward.
	The friendship that has taken root in our hearts
for one deserving of so much good is eternal, and
our prayer is that you may live long upon the
earth, that the path of usefulness you have trod-
den in the past may be continued for many years
to come.
			VICKIE CLAYTON,
		In behalf of the Association.
	A song, with guitar accompaniment, was then
rendered by Lizzie Smith; Recitation by Priscilla
Smith; song, with guitar accompaniment, by Viola
Pratt.
	Sister M. Y. Dougall then made a few appropri-
ate remarks, endorsing the sentiments expressed
in the address, and felt that they were not over
estimated.
	Song, with guitar accompaniment, by Vickie
Clayton.
	Sister Ella Dallas then made a few remarks,
thanking the Association for the honors paid her
but she desired the good will of the members far
more than the gift.
	Sister Howe then endorsed the sentiments al-
ready expressed, and gave us all some very good
advice, especially in regard to health.


﻿Meeting then adjourned for one week, to meet
at Sister M. Y. Dougal's. Closed by singing
"Providence is over all." Benediction by Lizzie
A. Davis.
	Refreshments were then indulged in, and the
evening passed in a very pleasant and successful
manner.
