	LEADER.

Hail to the leaders of men, the sovereigns by grace of God,
Who flinch not and fear not to venture where none before
	them have trod!
As lightning unsheathed from the clouds to chasten the
	pestilent air,
As fire running swift through the sere-wood, their spirit
	shall heaven prepare.
Lo, the armed leader alone! But soon not single he
	stands;
Not quicker sown teeth of the dragon sprang up in militant
	bands
About the great founder of Thebes than rallying legions
	arise,
And circle a leader of men, and lift his loved name to the
	skies.
Then, whereso he biddeth them strike, there draw they
	the glittering blade,
And whereso he biddeth them pause, the tide of the battle
	is stayed;
The field being won, he teaches how victors should temper
	their pride;
The field being lost, how Truth and the Right beyond
	ravage abide.
Few are the leaders of men, yet many the liegemen they
	draw; 
Fire of the courage in one, chill fear in a thousand shall
	thaw!
Still, as of old, Miltiades' trophies drive away sleep,
Still at the parle of the trumpet, hearts responsive shall
	leap:
Wherefore we follow our leaders, and well! yet cannot dis
	cern
How they whom we follow exultant are also led in their
	turn.
But surely, unseen is their chieftain, no plume streaming
	white in their van,—
Ah, surely, unseen is their chieftain, and ever a greater
	than man!
We move as their watchword commands, but a watchword
	more potent they hear;
The clang of the battle for us, for them music aerial-clear!
So  he who drank poison at Athens still heard the sweet
	voice of the law,
As the wild Corybantes the flutes of their deity listened in
	awe.)
They follow a deathless Idea;—leader of leaders for
	aye.—
That liveth, and wageth its strife, though we remain but a
	day;
That chooseth the man most fit, and setteth him foremost
	in fray.


Hail to the leaders of men, who know and their leaders
	obey!
Yet we too, the liegemen,—we too, though our sight ex
	ceed not a span.—
Follow a deathless Idea clothed in a puissant man.
	From the poem by
