A CHRISTMAS STORY.

	About the year one of the Christian era, as
the Gentile nations compute time, a virgin
lived; she traced her descent from ancient Israel,
who have continued to count time from the be-
ginning of creation. The name of this chosen
vessel of the Lord was Mary, and before she
was born the prophets spoke of her as being
the mother of the Savior; and they also prophe-
cied of one that should come to prepare the
way before Him. Mary had a cousin, her
name was Elizabeth, and they were both of the
same lineage. These two women were pure
and holy in conduct and conversation. Mary
was the youngest, and had not been married
when my story commences, but was engaged
to a good and devout man by the name of
Joseph; he also was of Israel, and descended
from the tribe of Juda, one of the twelve sons
of Jacob, by his wife Leah. We read in
Matthew, 1st chapter, of Joseph, the intended
husband of Mary, that his descent came down
through Solomon. And we read in Luke, 1st
chapter, "That a certain priest named Zacharias
of the course of Abia and his wife, was of the
daughters of Aaron, and her name was Eliza-
beth." Now Abia was the grandson of Solo-
mon. By tracing this descent it makes John the
Baptist and the Savior, or their natural fathers,
Zacharias and Joseph, related, as well as
Elizabeth and Mary; Elizabeth was of the
daughters of Aaron; who were of the tribe of
Levi, and Levi and Juda were own brothers;
these four persons would be related by blood.
Elizabeth and Mary were women highly fa-
vored of the Lord. The angel Gabriel was 
sent direct from the presence of the Father to
inform them of the birth of their children, and
named them before they were born; their pre-
existent state was fully defined, and their
missions here were fore-ordained, and their lives
sacrificed to save a fallen world.
	Before John the Baptist was born, there
were great promises made to his father con-
cerning him. He was told by the angel that
talked with him in the temple of the Lord,

[column 2]
“That he should have joy and gladness and
many would rejoice at his birth.” That he
should be great in the sight of the Lord, and
should not drink wine nor strong drink, and
should be filled with the Holy Ghost from his
birth, and many of the children of Israel he
 would turn to the Lord. The Savior said of
him, “That he was the greatest prophet that was
ever born of woman.” His office was to bap-
tize the Son of God, and also to baptize all
those who repented of their sins and brought
forth fruits worthy of repentance. Elizabeth
was filled with the Holy Ghost before her son
was born; Mary, her cousin, paid her a visit
and staid with her three months, and they re-
joined together in the things of God, that had
been made known to them through revelation
from on high.
	Joseph and his wife, Mary, went to the city
of David to be taxed, and while there the
Savior was born, and as there was no room for
them in the inn they slept in a stable, and the
Savior of the world was dressed in swaddling 
clothes and laid in a manger. And in that
country shepherds were there watching their 
flocks by night, and the angel of the Lord
came to them, and said for them not to fear,
they had brought them good tidings of great
joy, that should be to all people. "And there
was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly
host, praising God and saying, 'Glory to God
in the highest, and on earth peace, good-will
toward men. For unto you is born, in the
city of David, a Savior, which is Christ, the
Lord.' "
	Christ, the Son of Mary, was born in Bethle-
hem, in the land of Judea; wise men came from
the east to worship the babe of Bethlehem, for
they had seen a particular star, that indicated
He was born, and they inquired at Jerusalem
where he was; and when King Herod heard
the wise men tell about the star, he inquired
when it appeared, and sent them to Bethlehem
to find Jesus, that he might kill him, for he
really believed that Jesus would be King of
the Jews, and thought that he would be de-
throned, and he pretended to those wise men
that if they found Jesus he would worship Him
also. And they went at the King's command,
and, lo, the star that they had seen in the east 
went before them, till it came and stood over
where the young child was. When they saw
the star they rejoiced exceedingly.
	The writer of this dreamed she saw the star
in the heavens; the sky was dense, but over-
head, deep, beyond in a circular space, formed
a beautiful star, circle formed the center of it
and the painters touched the outer extremity,
and its colors were like the rainbow. I was en-
tranced; my gaze was steadfast; I watched it
until it gradually faded away, and a personage
slowly came to view, dressed in priestly robes
of pure white, feet and ankles bare; his head
was toward the West and feet to the East, as
he took the place of the star in the circle.
These were the only objects I saw in the hea-
vens. I thought this was the star that would
appear before the Savior's coming, and that
was His appearing in like manner. It reminded
me of that passage of Scripture, "That every
eye shall behold Him." I know I felt like
those wise men from the east. For days after
I had seen this, I rejoiced in the heavenly in-
fluence that shed itself through my whole be-
ing, which I cannot easily forget or describe.
	And when these wise men found the young
child and His mother they fell down and wor-


shipped Him; and they opened their treasures
and presented unto Him gifts; gold and frankin-
cense and myrrh.  The first gifts were pre-
sented to our Lord and Savior in His childhood,
and when His natal day rolls round, let us 
present to him a pure heart, like the gold, with
no alloy, purified from all dross; and when we
offer gifts to one another on Christmas day, let
us remember, that as each Christmas succeeds
another, we are approaching nearer the time
when He will appear, to give good gifts unto
those who ask Him in faith and keep His com-
mandments.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Dec 14, 1887.


