AN INTERESTING DREAM.

The following panorama passed in prophetic 
view before my slumbering eyes last night:
My attention was attracted by a funeral
cortege in the street, moving quietly westward.
First, there comes the hearse, bearing the hon-
ored dead, followed by many carriages and
horsemen, and last of all an imposing file of
men on foot, dressed in common everyday attire.
Onward the slow advancing mass of souls pro-
ceeded, and at every corner where a street in-
tersected, other retinues came up and fell in
with the procession, until with its miles of
length it seemed interminable.  In the begin-
ning there was no sign of flags or arms, and no
music, but as the vast concourse swept
solemnly on, it was suddenly discovered that
each man had shouldered a glittering bayonet;
and all at once the American flag, deeply
draped and hanging at half mast, waved
gloomily at short intervals over the moving
spectacle.  Everyone stepped regularly, and
with a tread almost tender, to the soft beat of
muffled drums.  Many were weeping and all
were sad.
	Then, suddenly, out from the impressive
silence, from the thousands of oppressed hearts,
rose in harmonious chords a song, and I heard
distinctly these words, sung in the beautiful
tune of “Sweet By and Bye:”

“In the sweet by and bye,
We will bow under tyranny no more;
In the sweet by and bye,
We will bow under tyranny no more.”

The chorus was sung over and over again,
and though sweet and soft, it rose to such an
enthusiasm that the very heavens seemed to
catch up the melodious refrain and sang in con-
cert.  The time was afternoon, serene and
bright.  All at once, a greyish light, as of
twilight, began to settle over the people, and
the sky so clear and fair a moment ago, began
to darken, and finally changed to ebon black-
ness.  Still I could see the immense train of
people, going forward with bowed heads, wav-
ing their banners aloft, singing in mutual sym-
pathy that same solemn, mysterious chorus.
	Then in the zenith appeared a circular open-
ing, the size of a large wheel, apparently, and
a division--twelve divisions, equal and regular,
--took place in the darkly shrouded sky, be-
ginning at the circle, and running downwards
along the sky to the verge of the horizon.
Each one of the separate divisions now began
majestically to move its sable folds, then formed,
in color and shape, into a flag, which appeared
heavily creped, and hung at half mast, drooped
to the earth and touched it.  The top of the
staffs, on which were fastened the twelve flags,
met the circle at regular sections.  Just on the
interior of the circle glowed these words, “The
twelve tyrannies.  Tyrants, beware!”  The
words were formed of letters written with
golden fire, that seemed to burn and crackle
and cintillate with their very intensity of 
meaning, and glittering serpents ran rapidly
up and down along the tracery of the letters,
hissing as they went.
	The blackness of the crepe was deeper upon
some of the flags than others; on the American
flag it was the blackest.  On another it was only
a dark dull grey color.  All the flags but that 
of my own country were strange to me, but
they represented distant nations.  The govern
ors and nobles of the earth, as spectators,
looked on the strange scene aghast.
	While up in the wide dark vault the flags
in their terrible beauty waved ominously to
and fro, and the gleaming letters above them
trembled and quivered under the mad rage of
the darting serpents, and the voices below con-
tinued in grand imposing chorus, the grey twi-
light air hanging directly over the people 
changed to a blood red light; earth and heaven
seemed to murmur, and a voice in the air said,
“Liberty is dead!”
A RESIDENT OF SALT LAKE CITY.
Thursday, Nov. 10, 1887.


Silence is the sanctuary of prudence.
	Though a lover be never so great an orator,
yet a kiss on the lips of his beloved is often
more eloquent than all his fine speech.—J.
Bodenham.
	Faith, though weak, is still faith, a glimmer-
ing taper if not a torch; but the taper may give
light as true as the torch, though not so bright-
ly.—H. Muller.


