NOTES BY THE WAY.

	Leaving Salt Lake City by the early south
bound train, on the 8th of December, fully antici-
pating Sister Z. D. H. Young's companionship in
the tour through Sanpete County, the disapoint-
ment of not having her society had a depressing
influence throughout the day, as one does not like
the responsibility of going out alone among the
sisters, when it is expected there will be two or
three together as it was in this instance; how-
ever, when the train reached Fountain Green
station, a carriage was in waiting, and Sister
Johnson welcomed the one lone visitor very cor-
dially, and we soon reached her hospitable home,
and, after a most excellent dinner, attended the
meeting of the Relief Society at the new brick
meeting house, Mrs. Polly Ann Johnson presid-
ing. We made it a point of having a verbal re-
port from the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. there, and at each place we visited when it
was not arranged to hold meetings with these or-
ganizations. After a pleasant evening at Sister
Johnson's, spent in conversation with several of
the sisters, who gathered there to talk upon the
principles of the Gospel and systems of work in
the Society, etc. we sat up late to write and send
home editorial matter for the paper, as every edi-
tor must do after occupying all the day with
other duties.
	The next morning drove over to Moroni with
Brother and Sister Clark; went direct to Bishop
Irons, where everybody goes to be entertained.
Meeting at half past one p. m., with the Relief So-
ciety, dear old Sister Jane Bailey presiding; and
at half past three the Primary Association assem-
bled, Sister Deborah Irons presiding. The chil-
dren rendered the programme prepared for the
occasion in a most creditable manner, and it must
be a great satisfaction to those who are interested
in the progress and spiritual development of the
little people of Zion, that these associations are
doing such good home missionary work wherever
they have been organized. Certainly those who
preside over the children, and who meet with them
every week,year after year,in all kinds of weather,
ought to have the faith and prayers of all Israel
in this noble undertaking.
	The following morning, Dec. 10th, went with
Bishop Irons and wife and Sister Gee to Mt.
Pleasant, where the Conference of the Relief So-

[Column 2]

ciety and Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake convened on
that day. The Bishop drove direct to the meet-
ing house, where we found conference in session,
Sister Mary A. Hyde presiding. Pres. Canute
Peterson and wife were present on the stand and
also sisters from several parts of the Stake; Sister
E. Allred, Counselor to Sister Hyde, Sister M.
A. Pritchett, Pres. R. S. Fairview, also Sister
Rebecca Tucker, Levee Terry and Sister Cheeney
from that place. The meeting house had been
handsomely draped in memory of the recent
death of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. Sister M.
F. C. Morrison and Sister Madson, the local
Presidents, were both present. Most of the 
branches of the R. S. in the Stake were repre-
sented verbally at the Conference. At the close
of the morning session a large number of the
brethren and sisters took dinner at Brother
Peels, where ample arrangements had been made
and a regular Christmas prepared for the visitors
from different parts of the stake.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference was held in the
afternoon, Sister Helen Armstrong presiding. Be-
sides reports from the Associations and brief
addresses from several of those present, Miss
Olive Lowrey related her wonderful experiences 
during a long and tedious illness, and her manifes-
tations of the power of God in her being re-
stored to health. Her recital produced a thrill-
ing effect upon the congregation, and, indeed,
throughout the Conference a most excellent spirit
was manifest in all the addresses and teachings
given, and it seemed a time of refreshing from on
high.
	That night we stayed with our dear friends the
Morrisons, and on Sunday morning went with
Sister Leonard Jordan and son to Spring City.
We arrived in time for dinner, at the residence of
Sister Hyde, at the home of the late Apostle
Orson Hyde. Many recollections of his life and
labors are recalled in visiting his house in Spring
City, where he lived so many years and labored
among the people in that Stake of Zion, and where
at least, he laid himself down to sleep after a long
life of usefulness, or, as we believe, passed to the
Spirit world to proclaim the glad tidings of great
joy to the Spirits in prison there, and to join his
fellow laborers and co-workers who had gone be-
fore him to the other side.
	In the afternoon attended service in the ward
meeting house, Bishop Allred presiding. A re-
turned missionary occupied most of the time,
whose field of labor had been in the Southern
States, and who seemed to be inspired with the
spirit of his mission, and bore an excellent testi-
mony to the truuth of the Gospel. The sisters meet-
ing was held at the same place in the evening, Sis-
ter Mary Frantzen presiding. There was a
crowded house; many young people of both sexes
were present, and paid great attention to the
speakers. Monday morning, with Sister Hyde
and Master Royal Hyde, we drove over to
Ephraim, where, as in every other settlement. we
visited, we were very cordially greeted, and most
hospitably entertained. As a matter of course
we stayed at Pres. Peterson's, and thoroughly 
enjoyed the visit, not only with the President and
his good wife, but with the sisters who came to
visit us,during the time we were there, and whose
kindness will ever be remembered. There were
two meetings at Ephraim one of the R. S., in the
afternoon of Monday, Sister M. A. Hyde presid-
ing with Sister Sarah Peterson, her Frst Counsel-
or, and one of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the evening;
both were well attended, and seemingly much en-
joyed by all present.
	Tuesday, Pres. Peterson and wife, with one or
two other sisters accompanied us to Manti, where
meeting was held in the Council House in the
afternoon. Sister M. A. Hyde presiding, as is
usually the case when there are two or more lo
cal Presidents. Sister Rebecca Wareham, Prest.
of South Ward,and Sister Jane Casto President of


North Ward; each gave a verbal report, showing
the condition of the R. S. in the local wards. There
was also a report from the President of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Manti.
	In the evening we attended the bonjoint meet-
meeting of the Y. M. and Y. L. A regular pro-
gramme of exercises was rendered. The sub-
jects treated upon were interesting, and the asso-
ciation is no doubt making good progress.
	Wednesday morning, in company with Prest.
Maiben and his amiable wife, also Sister Alvira
Cox and the architect, Bro. Fulsom, we had the
pleasure of going through the Manti Temple,
which is now nearing its completion. No Latter-
day Saint can enter one of these sacred edifices
erected for the most holy ordinances, without feel-
ing inspired with e deep inward sense of the great
mission to be performed therein for the living and
for the dead.
	The same afternoon the two Primaries held a
joint meeting in the Council House, Miss Olive
Lowrey presiding. Brief notes of the meeting are
given in another column. While in Manti we
were entertained at Bro. Wareham's, where we
enjoyed our visit very much indeed. Their doors
are always open to the sisters who travel from
time to time in the interests of the organizations,
and the spirit of love and of peace overshadows
their habitation.
	Thursday morning, bright and early. Pres.
Peterson arrived ready to drive on to Mayfield.
The air was very frosty and the way was cold and
somewhat dreary; notwithstanding the goodly
company we couldn't converse much, on account
of the cold air.
	We reached Mayfield in time to keep the ap-
pointment made for eleven o'clock. Here we
found the sisters had a new Relief Society Hall,
which does great credit to the place and proves
their untiring energy and perseverance in good
works. Sister M. Olson presided, and the meet,
ing was well atteuded, a good spirit prevailing.
After partaking of a warm dinner, made more
agreeable still by the pleasant company assembled,
the party started for Gunnison, where there was
an appointment for three o'clock. Prest. Peterson,
having learned it was not safe to cross the river
the nearest way, had to drive several miles further
around, so that we were late in reaching Gunnison.
The meeting had already commenced, Sister
Helena Madsen presiding. The attendance was
very large. In one part of the hall the Primary
Association were seated, and it was evident they
enjoyed the instructions quite as well as the older
people. Verbal reports were given by the Pres.
of the Y. L. and P. A., and all seemed to enjoy
the coming together. Pres. Peterson gave out an
appointment for a special meeting in the evening.
The travelling party repaired to Bishop Madsen's
where we had a most enjoyable time. Attended
the evening meeting; Bishop Madsen presided,
but Pres. Peterson was the speaker of the occa-
sion. His remarks were well chosen, and cer-
tainly all must have been encouraged to persevere
in the path of duty, by the fatherly counsel and in
strnction imparted to them.
	Friday morning Bishop Madsen and wife and
Elder Metcalf joined the party, and we drove over
to Fayette. Meeting was appointed for 2 p.m.
Sister Jane Ann Bown presided. At Fayette, as
in all other places we visited, there was a warm
welcome for all the party. We stayed at Bishop
Bartholomew's, where we spent a very pleasant
evening with his interesting family and relatives.
Very early Saturday morning we left for Juab, and
reached there in time for dinner, and to caich the
train, reaching home at evening and finding all
well.
	The visit was in every respect a pleasant one,
and long to be remembered from the friendly
association and congenial companionship of the
brethren and sisters with whom we traveled, and
wherever we tarried upon the journey.


