FREAKS OF NATURE.

	A little to the south and considerable to the
west of Fillmore can be seen a beautiful white
knoll, or small hill. It is round, coming to a
peak in the center; very much resembling a
snow capped mountain, when viewed from the
city. But as the investigator approaches, he
finds, instead of snow, a white sand, supposed
to be volcanic ash, and certainly there seems
some foundation for the supposition, as, im-
mediately beyond the whole surface of the
earth is rent with openings running in all di-
rections as if caused by an earthquake Some
of these openings measure three and four feet
across, the depth being unknown.
	If a rock is thrown down it can be heard
striking from side to side, the sound coming
faint and fainter, until it is entirely lost by
distance.
	Adventurers deem it great sport to enter
these crevices and follow them both downwards
and in the direction of the rent. Sometimes
subterranean caves are found, which differ in
size, shape, and beauty. Caves can not be
found in all the crevices, but they abound in
great e ough numbers to securely conceal, at
least, half of those convicted for unlawful co-
habitation.
	If they were ever followed the pursued or
the pursuers would each do well if he were
able to keep track of his own person.
	About a mile and a half's climbing over
trenches and huge boulders of lava, will bring
you to two caves, one representing a very large
room, rather longer than wide, high in the
centre, and gradually sloping from the centre
to the ground. In shape very much like a
blubber of soap found floating upon water
and who knows but that this huge cave was
once filled with gas, which finally made its
escape where we found an entrance. The
second cave is very much inferior in size and
beauty, there being several openings through
the top. This cave is also very narrow, and, in
some places, not high enough to allow a man
of medium height to stand erect. Both must
be examined by an artificial light.
	Verging on this volcanic mountain is a mea-
dow, dotted here and there with springs. In
some the water is a little warm. They are
very much alike in shape and surroundings.
One of the most artistic is almost square, 
walled up with rock, as if by the hand of man.
In one corner is an opening through which
the sparkling water makes its escape. The
spring being somewhat elevated, the water
forms a miniature fall, producing an exquisite
effect upon the eye.	
		L. C.


