A HAPPY NEW YEAR!

	The new year always brings with it a feeling of
joy, as the departure of the old one leaves sadness,
we throw it off in the dawning of the new, as we
cast off an old garment we have worn and don the
new, scarcely knowing whether it will serve us as
well as the old one, and yet it is with some little
satisfaction we take on the new.
	The new year is a time of fresh resolves to al-
most all the world of mankind; in whatever work
one is engaged, the wish is generally felt if it is
not expressed, may this year now just entered
upon be a more prosperous and a more propitious
one than the last. In this feeling the literary
worker, and especially the journalist, shares very
largely. We find it noticeable in almost all our
exchanges, and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT feels
most strongly the necessity of greater success in
the undertaking of the work on hand. The de
pression among the Latter-day Saints, in conse-
quence of the crusade against this people, the
many bonds, imprisonments and exiles, and the
circumstances of the people generally, has had its
effect upon the paper, and most severely, too. The
women of Zion should feel a sufficient degree of
interest in their representation to support a paper,
and it certainly gives them both influence and
prestige, as well as helping to develop the talent
of women for writing, and in this connection we
can safely affirm that it has been instrumental in
bringing out and aiding, not only young women,
but young men as well.
	We look back with a slight degree of pride
(laudable we think), to the first published writings,
both prose and poetry, of some who have since
made a mark and attained to some distinction in
home literature.
	The EXPONENT contains sketches of the lives
and peculiar experiences of some of the most
noted women who ever lived, and a complete re-
cord of organizations of the Relief Society, Young
Ladies' Associations and Primary Associations in
all the several Stakes of Zion. It also has, from
time to time, published many original essays upon
various subjects, besides poetry or verse, that
has found its way into other newspapers and jour-
nals and young ladies' scrap books, not only in
Utah, but elsewhere.
	The EXPONENT is also a missionary abroad as
well as at home, and goes where it would be very
difficult for a "Mormon" Elder or a "Mormon"
woman even to gain admittance. And it sows the
seeds of truth, much as it may be despised, by
some and insignificent as it appears to many.
	During the past year alone hundreds of tourists
have called at this office to inquire concerning the
"peculiar people," and especially the "Mor-
mon" women. Looking over the register
book for the year 1887, there are recorded the
names of some very distinguished people, and the
list includes men and women from various parts
of the globe. At times there have been very
strong testimonies borne to strangers in this 
office, sometimes by Elders, but much more fre-

[Column 2]

quently by the sisters, and thus, also, much good
seed is sown; it may be as the Savior said of the
sower who went forth to sow:
	"And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the
wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them
up.
	"Some fell upon stony places, where they had
not much earth; and forthwith they sprung up, be-
cause they had no deepness of earth;
	"And when the sun was up, they were scorched;
and because they had no root, they withered
away.
	"And some fell among thorns; and the thorns
sprung up and choked them.
	But others fell into good ground, and brought
forth good fruit, some a hundred fold, some sixty
fold, some thirty fold."
	A little of this kind of sowing has been done by
the women of Zion through the EXPONENT, and
even this little is both precious and desirable.
	No more hearty or sincere congratulations can
be given by any, than we wish to express for our
readers and the women of Zion, and the women
of all the world, hoping for a brighter day and
fairer prospects, and that ere long the strong bands
of oppression that hold the Latter-day Saints in
bondage may be broken, and Zion arise and shine
resplendent in glory, the admiration of all the
world.


[Column 1]

