[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    LJears  ^/Lgo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  November  1,  and  November  15,  1896 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
CLARA  BARTON'S  WORK  IN  TURKEY:  If  yon  ask  of  our  mission  what  we 
found  and  what  we  left,  there  is  really  but  this  to  say:  We  found  want,  desolation  and 
suffering,  and  relieved  them  so  far  as  we  were  able.  In  spite  of  all,  these  are  still  there, 
and  they  have  grown  since.  Winter  is  approaching  and  unless  the  open  hand  of 
charity,  not  of  this  country  alone,  but  of  all  civilized  countries,  is  reached  out  to  them 
and  access  be  secured,  hunger  and  cold  will  gather  the  victims  in  by  the  tens  of  thou- 
sands, and  bury  them  like  the  fallen  leaves  beneath  the  snow. 
— Clara  Barton,  President  of  the  American  Red  Cross 
THE  SPIRIT  OF  SLEEP 
He  seals  the  eyes  that  arc  wet  with  tears, 
And  those  where  gladness  beams, 
And  by  a  wave  of  his  scepter-wand 
We  soar  to  the  land  of  dreams  .... 
In  the  silent  gloom  of  the  midnight  hour 
His  standard  is  unfurled; 
With  his  misty  crown  he  reigns  supreme 
The  monarch  of  the  world. 
— Julia  Bowring  Maltese 
QUEEN  VICTORIA:  Queen  Victoria  has  been  queen  of  Great  Britain  during 
the  administrations  of  Van  Buren,  Harrison,  Tyler,  Polk,  Taylor,  Fillmore,  Pierce,  Grant, 
Hayes,  Garfield,  Arthur,  Harrison  and  Cleveland. — Selected 
THE  EXPONENT:  The  prestige  the  Exponent  has  given  the  women  of  this 
Church  in  the  outside  world  is  little  realized;  it  has  broken  down  mountains  of  prejudice, 
it  has  gone  into  the  homes  of  the  rich,  and  the  famous,  poets,  writers,  philosophers, 
people  of  rank  and  title;  besides  it  affords  opportunity  to  the  Elders  who  are  out 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  allay  much  prejudice  they  have  to  meet  .... 
— Editorial 
BOOK  OF  POEMS:  The  book  of  poems  to  be  issued  by  Mrs.  E.  B.  Wells  is  now 
in  course  of  publication  .  .  .  more  than  one  third  of  the  pages  have  been  prepared,  and 
it  is  expected  the  book  will  be  ready  for  subscribers  before  Christmas. 
— Editorial  Note 
THE  NATIONAL  COUNCIL  OF  WOMEN:  The  Executive  meeting  of  the 
National  Council  of  Women  of  the  United  States  will  be  held  this  year  in  Boston  on 
December  2,  3,  and  4th.  Notices  have  been  sent  to  each  society  belonging  to  the 
Council  to  send  delegates,  but  this  year  Utah  organizations  cannot  conveniently  send 
representatives  on  account  of  the  great  distance  and  the  scarcity  of  means. 
— Editorial  Note 
Page  736