[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Society]
[Notes to the Field: New Address for Relief Society]
FROM    THE    FIELD 
Margaret  C.  Pickering,  General  Secretary- Treasurer 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal 
of  material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1950,  page  278,  and 
the  Handbook  of  Instructions,  page  123. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Margaret  R.  Jackson 
NEW  ENGLAND  MISSION,  CAMBRIDGE  BRANCH  RELIEF   SOCIETY 
CONDUCTS  SUCCESSFUL  BAZAAR 
Left  to  right:  Margaret  R.  Jackson,  President,  New  England  Mission  Relief  Society; 
officers  of  the  Cambridge  Branch  Relief  Society:  Leonora  B.  Cox,  President;  Bessie 
Ryther,  Secretary-Treasurer;  Elizabeth  J.  Freeman,  Counselor;  Alice  Karas,  work  meeting 
leader;  Bonita  T.  Bennion,  Counselor. 
President  Margaret  R.  Jackson  reports  the  success  of  this  unusual  bazaar:  "The 
bazaar  presented  an  excellent  display  of  handwork  and  other  items.  The  sisters  made 
several  hundred  dollars,  and  the  bazaar  included  everything  from  wonderful  New  Eng- 
land recipe  books  made  by  Relief  Society  members,  to  fresh  honey  from  the  hives 
belonging  to  one  of  the  members.  The  unique  thing  about  the  bazaar,  I  felt,  was  the 
way  the  sisters  worked  to  get  ready  for  it.  They  decided  in  advance  what  they  wanted 
the  bazaar  to  include.  They  then  divided  the  work  into  as  many  months  as  there  were 
left  until  the  time  of  the  bazaar.  They  mimeographed  copies  of  their  plans  and  gave 
a  copy  to  each  member.  Each  work  meeting  they  worked  like  bees,  beginning  their 
quota  for  that  month.  Then,  at  the  close  of  the  work  period,  each  member  would 
take  some  part  of  the  unfinished  work  home  and  bring  it  back  to  the  next  meeting. 
They  would  then  start  on  the  next  month's  quota.  The  plans  were  most  perfect  in 
organization  and  development." 
Page  756

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
757 
Photograph  submitted  by  May   Dyer 
CENTRAL   STATES   MISSION,   LIBERTY    (MISSOURI)    BRANCH 
CONDUCTS  QUILT-MAKING  PROJECT 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Calvina  Davis;  Mary  Harrison;  Ocean  Dick;  Jean  McCul- 
lock;  Laura  Evans;  Mickey  Gordona;  Alice  Tolman,  First  Counselor;  Sybil  Rayner. 
Back  row,  left  to  right:  Ruby  Miller;  Cleora  Williams,  Secretary-Treasurer;  Wanda 
Rogers,  Second  Counselor;  Jewel  Mackesty,  President;  Ida  McHenry. 
May  Dyer,  President,  Central  States  Mission  Relief  Society,  reports  the  activities 
of  this  devoted  organization:  "The  sisters  of  the  Liberty,  Missouri,  Branch  always 
gather  together  with  a  special  feeling  of  humility.  They  are  privileged  to  meet  each 
week  in  a  hallowed  spot,  over  the  Liberty  Jail,  where  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  suf- 
fered as  a  prisoner  for  many  months.  This  branch  Relief  Society  was  begun  in  March 
1955,  with  fourteen  members.  Under  the  able  leadership  of  Sybil  Rayner,  Jewel 
Mackesty,  and  Alice  Tolman,  the  members  have  made  an  enviable  record,  in  spite  of 
the  fact  that  many  of  them  have  to  drive  a  distance  of  fifty  to  seventy-five  miles  from 
their  homes  to  meeting  and  back.  Although  they  have  to  drive  110  miles  a  month  to 
get  their  visiting  teaching  done,  Wanda  Rogers  and  Ocean  Dick,  and  others  who  have 
helped,  have  always  achieved  a  one  hundred  per  cent  visiting  teaching  record.  The 
branch  has  also  scored  one  hundred  per  cent  on  The  Book  of  Mormon  reading  project. 
Last  November  the  women  conducted  a  very  successful  bazaar  in  Liberty.  Although 
it  was  very  stormy  weather,  the  women  brought  160  articles  which  they  had  made. 
In  addition  to  the  bazaar,  they  had  a  bake  sale  at  the  same  time.  At  the  spring  Relief 
Society  fair  and  fashion  show,  in  Independence,  the  Liberty  Branch  again  submitted 
many  articles  and  received  three  first-place  awards.  Since  the  organization,  they  have 
tied  one  quilt  and  quilted  three  more,  a  remarkable  accomplishment,  considering  that 
the  sisters  knew  nothing  about  quilting  until  Alice  Tolman,  a  missionary  custodian  at 
the  Liberty  Jail,  taught  them  how  to  quilt."

758 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1956 
sliaagMlwlwlil^^  ■ 
Photograph  submitted  by  Rosalie  Marble 
SOUTH  SEVIER  STAKE  (UTAH)  RELIEF  SOCIETY  BOARD  MAKES  QUILT 
OF  UNUSUAL  DESIGN
