[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Beauty | Author: Deep]
ONE  BRIGHT  STAR 
733 
Joey  watched   their   delight   and  out,  we  will  look  like  real  shepherds, 
thought  how  dim  this  star  would  anyway/'  Joey  told  them, 
look  to  them,  if  they  had  seen  all  Their  mother  helped  them   don 
the  big,  brighter  stars  and  all  the  the  robes,  and  when  she  had  wound 
shining  colored  lights  and  the  glit-  the  scarf  turbans  about  their  heads, 
tering  beauty  of  the  town.  their  bright  laughter  filled  the  room, 
He  started  to  speak,  his  words  a  as  they  paraded  before  the  mirror, 
swift  burst  of  emotion.  "The  town  The  lambs  scampered  back,  start- 
is  so  pretty,  and  there  are  so  many  led  by  the  strange  figures  that  came 
wonderful  toys  in  the  store  .  .  .  ."  to  open  the  gate  of  their  pen. 
The    sight    of    his    mother's    face  The  children  spoke  to  them,  call- 
checked  his  words.    In  her  eyes  was  ing    them    by    name.     "Come    on 
the  hurt  of  not  being  able  to  give  lambkins;  don't  be  afraid." 
her  children  the  joy  and  satisfaction 
of  all  the  fine  things.     A  troubled  'THE  lambs  soon  quieted  and  came 
look  clouded  Joey's  eyes  for  a  mo-  slowly  to  the  gate,  as  they  heard 
ment,   but  his   mother   placed  her  the  friendly,  familiar  voices.     The 
arm  about  his  shoulder.     She  gave  boys  drove  them  out,  and  they  be- 
him  a  smile  of  tenderness  and  un-  gan  nibbling  the  dry  grass  near  their 
derstanding. 
"Come,  we  must  hurry  and  place 
the  star  above  the  stable,"  Benjy 
said. 
"But  Joey  must  be  hungry,  and 
there  is  warm  stew  waiting."  His 
mother  hurried  to  the  stove  to  set 
him  something  to  eat. 
"No,  Mother,  it  is  getting  late. 
I  will  go  with  them  to  place  the 
star,"  Joe  told  her. 
They  fastened  the  star  to  a  tall, 
thin  willow  and  nailed  the  willow 
stick  to  the  roof  of  the  stable,  but 
in  the  twilight  dimness  it  did  not 
shine  nor  sparkle.  For  a  moment, 
disappointment  showed  in  their 
faces. 
"It  doesn't  shine  at  all  like  the 
star  of  Bethlehem.  It  is  supposed 
to  be  brighter  than  any  other  star," 
Benjy  spoke  dejectedly. 
"But  we  know  the  star  is  there," 
Maria  tried  to  cheer  them. 
"Now,  if  we  put  on  the  shep- 
herds'  robes   and   drive   the  lambs 
pen.  Suddenly,  a  bright  moon 
peeked  over  the  hill  to  the  east  of 
them.  A  white  light  spread  all 
around,  and  the  sheep  looked  snowy 
white  and  clean. 
"Oh,  see  our  star,  how  brightly 
it  shines,"  Maria  cried. 
"The  valley  is  so  beautiful  and 
the  lambs  are  so  white,"  Joey  said. 
He  felt  happiness  and  peace  creeping 
into  his  body.  He  breathed  deeply, 
and  said,  "This  is  almost  like  the 
real  shepherds  of  Bethlehem;  the 
light  shining  down  so  brightly  and 
everything  so  peaceful."  Then  Joey 
began  to  repeat  very  softly,  the 
words  his  mother  read  to  them  from 
Luke  every  year. 
And  there  were  in  the  same  country 
shepherds  abiding  in  the  field,  keeping 
watch  over  their  flock  by  night. 
And,  lo,  the  angel  of  the  Lord  came 
upon  them,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord 
shone  round  about  them:  and  they  were 
sore  afraid. 
And  the  angel  said  unto  them,  Fear 
not:  for,  behold,  I  bring  you  good  tidings 
of  great  joy,  which  shall  be  to  all  people.

734 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1956 
For  unto  you  is  born  this  day  in  the 
city  of  David  a  Saviour,  which  is  Christ 
the  Lord. 
Joey's  voice  was  very  solemn,  and 
Benjy  and  Maria  stood  silently  with 
lighted  faces,  their  hands  clasped 
tightly  together. 
"Out  here  it  sounds  even  more 
beautiful  than  when  Mother  reads 
it  to  us  in  the  house  each  Christ- 
mas/' Benjy  said. 
"It  is  like  Bethlehem,  only  there 
aren't  the  angels  and  the  singing," 
Maria  told  them. 
Then  they  all  heard  the  sound  of 
the  music.  Softly  the  strains  came 
to  them  on  the  night  air.  For  a 
moment  their  eyes  turned  heaven- 
ward, as  though  they  expected  to 
see  heavenly  angels  singing.  The 
tune  was  very  familiar.  They  had 
sung  it  many  times  around  the  fire 
at  Christmas  time.  It  was  "Silent 
Night,"  and  the  words  were  being 
sung  softly,  "Silent  night,  holy 
night.  All  is  calm,  all  is  bright 
"It  is  Mother,"  they  all  chorused 
with  awed  voices.  "She  is  playing 
the  organ  and  singing.  It  sounds 
as  sweet  as  an  angel." 
They  looked  toward  the  house 
where  the  door  was  open,  and  the 
music  coming  out  to  them.  "That 
is  Mother's  part.  We  had  forgotten 
Mother  would  be  helping  us.  Hers 
is  the  best  part  of  all." 
"I  feel  it  all,  deep  in  here,"  Joey
