[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 15 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Designs]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Rozella Stringham Grant Makes Rugs of Intricate Designs]
see  their  features  plainly. 
"And  you  are  Joey  Adams,  the 
boy  who  told  us  about  his  decora- 
tion. 'It  is  just  a  stable/  you  said. 
But  it  is  more  than  that,  Joey.  We 
are  the  judges,  you  know." 
Joey  looked  at  them  for  a  mo- 
ment before  he  could  speak.  "I'm 
glad  you  took  the  trouble  to  come 
way  out  here  to  our  place,"  he  said 
seriously.  "I'm  sure  the  lovely  place 
where  I  saw  you  got  the  prize.  Is 
it  the  one  that  got  it?" 
"That  place  was  very  beautiful, 
all  that  art  and  money  could  make 
it,  but  money  cannot  buy  what  we 
have  found  here— love  and  peace 
and  good  will."  It  was  the  kind, 
older  man  who  spoke  again,  and  the 
others  nodded  their  heads  once 
more. 
Joey's  eyes  were  as  shining  as  the 
lights  suddenly  turned  on  a  Christ- 
mas tree.  Now  he  forgot  the  bright- 
ness of  the  town  and  all  the  toys 
and  gifts.  He  looked  at  Benjy  and 
Maria,  and  the  silver  star  over  the 
stable.  He  remembered  only  the 
words  of  the  angels  who  sang, 
"Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and 
on  earth  peace,  good  will  toward 
men." 
cJhe  cJatted  JLace 
Norma  A.  WrathaD 
The  lamplight  holds  in  circled  radiance 
The  rocking  chair,  the  floor,  the  fireplace, 
And  finds  its  sheen  upon  her  head  bent  low, 
As  in  and  out  her  shuttle  weaves  the  lace. 
Her  work-worn  fingers  move  with  quiet  skill, 
She  smooths  the  lace  across  her  knee,  and  then 
Pauses,  plucks  faulty  stitches,  winds  the  thread 
And  makes  the  pattern  true  and  fine  again. 
So,  through  the  years,  the  handmade  lace  adorned 
A  petticoat  a  happy  bride  might  wear — 
A  loving  gift  of  doilies — pillow  slips — 
A  baby's  dress — a  handkerchief's  white  square. 
And  who  might  guess  what  dreams  or  plans  were  in 
Those  wheels  of  filigree  her  shuttle  traced? 
Or  know  what  cares,  like  broken  stitches,  were 
Pondered,  and  with  serenity  replaced? 
I  like  to  think  that  from  a  ball  of  thread 
Her  fingers  cast  the  pattern  of  her  days; 
And  that  the  tatted  lace,  of  quaint  design, 
Held  love,  forbearance,  faith,  that  marked  her  ways.