[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Dedication | Author: Magazin]
he precious gifts of sisterhood and service. In that time, in another era, they shall say: "This house our mothers built for us." We are that golden link in time which binds the historic days to the *The proceedings of the dedication of the Relief Society Building will appear in the December issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Page 738 EDITORIAL ever-widening years to come. We know that many of the builders of this edifice will never see its shining walls, its spacious rooms, its lovely gifts and adornments which have been sent from afar, but all Relief Society women everywhere will feel the joy of the builders, and the spirit of the house will flow forever into all the stakes and missions, into the far-off branches to the great cities and to the towns — to all places where faithful women meet in the name of the world-wide sisterhood — in all those places where devoted women build the structures of their earthly lives for an everlasting purpose. The replicas of sheaves of wheat which adorn the marble panels on the outside walls of the building are more than decorative motifs. The sheaves are as a joining of large and small treasures, harvested, perhaps, from abundant fields, or smaller garnerings from regions of small 739 harvests. Yet all the sheaves are rich in fulfillment. Even as the faithful sisters once gleaned in the desert fields and stored their wheat for a time of need, even so the women of Relief Society joyfully through all the years have gathered their sheaves of spiritual sustenance and have stored them for a time of need. The sheaves of wheat are a symbol of fulfillment, and they are like the precious grain which will be for the seeding of other fields in years to come. 'The service and the joys of Relief Society are everlasting; they are forever a reaping and a planting. How beautifully the Psalm has expressed the rejoicing of the daughters: Let mount Zion rejoice, and let the daughters... Be glad.... Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following (Psalm 48:11-13). —V. P. C. —<— lot Gust the Heart Catherine E. Berry The far, far pastures of the mind Bloom green and fair, Waiting to feed the hungry thoughts. But winds blow down the lonely crevasses Finding no searcher there. The wide, wide spaces of the heart Are crowded now, Yielding their sustenance to fill The thoughts that seek and yearn for greater heights Of all love will allow. The deep, deep canyons of the soul Go unexplored, Lying in wasted, unused lengths. We have not learned it takes all three to hold The treasure-laden board. Votes TO THE FIELD New Address for Reliof Society As of November 1, 1956, the general offices of Relief Society are located in The Relief Society Building at 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 16, Utah. This includes all departments except the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, located at 21 West South Temple Street. Dedication of She Reliof Society Building to Be Featured in December Mlagazine The complete proceedings of the dedication of The Relief Society Building will be featured in the December Relief Society Magazine. Included will be a cover picture of the building in four colors, and many other illustrations inside the Magazine, some of them in color. President McKay's dedicatory prayer and addresses by the First Presidency and the general presidency of Relief Society will be presented. Relicf Society Souvenir Plate Available The Relief Society Building souvenir plate may now be purchased at the general offices of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 16, Utah, for $3.50, which includes mailing costs. The plate is made of Old English Staffordshire Ware and was especially designed for Relief Society. The center part of the design is a replica of The Relief Society Building. Photographs of the oil paintings of the nine general presidents of Relief Society are circled on the plate, and the whole pattern is bound with replicas of sheaves of wheat—an emblem long dear to Relief Society women. The motto of the society—"Charity Never Faileth'"—is engraved on the plate. Birthday Congratulations The Birthday Congratulations column, for women ninety years of age and older, which has been part of the "Woman's Sphere' page, will generally be found, beginning with this issue of the Magazine, on the page facing the inside back cover. Page 740 ae +, Rozella Stringham Grant Tlakes Rugs of Yntricate Designs ea Stringham Grant, Glendale, California, has made more than one hundred rugs. Using cast-off woolen materials cut on the bias in three-fourths inch wide strips, she crochets the strips together with carpet warp. Occasionally, she makes rugs of solid color, but finds greater scope for her artistry in using blending and contrasting colors in many all-over and "swirl" designs. In some of the rugs she makes a recurring border motif of colorful figures on a lighter ground, and the edges are made of the same colors as the border motifs. She has also made many braided and hooked rugs, and it is easy for her to see in any home where a colorful homemade rug could be placed to advantage. She believes that a woman's hands are made for homemaking—for making beautiful handwork to beautify her home—and the homes of others. Mrs. Grant, now ninety-four years old, is also an excellent cook, being particularly famous among her friends for her homemade cookies and whole-wheat bread. She is the mother of six children, grandmother to sixteen, and great-grandmother to thirtyfive. She has been a Relief Society secretary, a counselor, and a president, and has lived in her own life the ideals of charity and service which are exemplified in Relief Society work. Fu Gene Romolo fumn Like a gorgeous bird of tropic birth With widespread pinions, Splendorous autumn hovers over earth, Deepening the hues of ungirthed gold In sunlit glory Radiating over mountain crests and wold. And when the time comes for autumn's end of duty, Like a topic, molting bird, it sheds its beauty. Page 74] ~~ (Beauty Ys Mlore Shan Skin Deep What is beauty? Who can have it? Ask John Robert Powers, world-famous authority on the subject. After many years of choosing and training beautiful models, he will tell you, though it sounds trite: "There are certain features that most beautiful women have in common" "a glow of health," "a radiant personality," ""a complete Page 742 BEAUTY IS MORE THAN SKIN DEEP 743 > oes self-assurance and naturalness," "intellectual curiosity, integrity, and stability of character." "Beauty comes from within." "It is within the potentialities of almost any girl." Or look to some authorities of the past. Said Emerson: "Beauty is the soundness of the bones... A peach-ripe complexion; health of constitution that makes the sparkle and power of the eyes." "... Character gives splendor to youth." Sir James Barrie says of charm (the sister of beauty): "If you have it you don't need anything else, and if you don't have it, it doesn't much matter what else you have." Beauty is largely a matter of the thoughts we think, the deeds we do, the food we eat, the interest we show in others. It is the sum of sincerity, enthusiasm, and unselfishness. It is the product of busy days and nights untroubled by guilty regrets. Beauty is obedience to the laws of good and wise and wonderful living of the laws of health and happiness. To these add a lively search for eternal truth — for the good things here — for the good things hereafter —and you will surely find beauty in living, and be beautiful yourself. In short, beauty is a reflection of what you are inside yourself. So, if you would be beautiful— BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Sar Arve Shese Ways Alice Morrey Bailey Christmas comes across the sleeping hill As gently as the new snow drifts tonight, But in the valley song and laughter spill Beneath the city's canopy of light. The rainbow streets with holly-green are strung And costly goods give shoppers wistful pause. With lighted trees and stockings limply hung, — Star-eyed children wait for Santa Claus. These alien ways are seeming paradox, And far are they from soft Judean plains Where gentle shepherds watched their bedded flocks Until the heavens burst with angel strains. Yet gifts and ways of giving still are wide; Through deserts of the heart the Magi ride. Recipes Sromthe dlawau Ti lission Submitted by Maurine M. Haycock CuIcKEN Witnu Lone RIcE 3 Ib. Chicken 2 or 3 bundles long rice* butter or cooking oil salt and pepper 1 clove garlic shoyu (soy sauce) to taste 1 piece ginger Ajinomoto (Accent) Cut chicken in serving pieces. Fry in butter or cooking oil with garlic and ginger until golden brown. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil neck and part of chicken about forty-five minutes separately, adding water so as to have at least two quarts of stock. Cover remaining chicken with water and cook till tender. Cut up long rice which has been soaked in water for forty minutes and cook for twenty minutes in stock. Combine with chicken, add shoyu (soy sauce) and Ajinomoto (Accent). May be served plain or with rice or poi. *Long rice is a product resembling spaghetti in shape, but made of cooked rice. It may be purchased in nearly all stores which carry Oriental foods. SUKIYAKE 2 Ibs. Chicken, cut from bones 2 bunches green onions 6 tbsp. Shoyu (soy sauce) 1 tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 6 tbsp. Sugar salt to taste 1 can Japanese bamboo shoots chicken fat 1 can mushrooms Cut chicken in small pieces. Slice bamboo shoots and mushrooms. Cut green onions (including tops) into one-inch pieces. Heat the pan, put in some small pieces of chicken fat. When melted add enough chicken to half fill the pan. Add sugar and shoyu (soy sauce) and mix well with chicken. When it begins to boil, push to sides of pan, add some of the mushrooms, bamboo shoots, and onions. Cook 10 minutes. More chicken, vegetables, sugar, and shoyu (soy sauce) should be added from time to time. Do not allow the sukiyake to brown. If it begins to dry out, add a little water, additional sugar, and shoyu (soy sauce). Sukiyake is called "Hekka" in Hawaii. It is served with rice, a green salad, and pickled vegetables. Makes six servings. 'TERUYAKI Barbecued Steak 2 Ibs. Round steak % inch thick 1 clove garlic (either mash 1 c. Shoyu (soy sauce) or chop very fine) ¥% tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 1 tbsp. Finely chopped ginger root Soak steak in seasoning mixture for about 1 hour or longer, if desired. It may be cooked over hot charcoal or broiled. Haupia Coconut Pudding ac. Fresh milk 5 tbsp. Sugar 3.¢. Coconut milk 2 or 3 drops vanilla extract or 5 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 drop lemon extract 3 or 4 large coconuts pinch of salt Grate three or four large coconuts, which will make about three cups coconut milk. Moisten grated coconuts and allow to stand for twenty minutes.