[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: Hearts | Author: Sutherland]
[Heart's Bounty — Chapter 6 Deone R. Sutherland]
unburden  their  hearts  concerning 
personal  problems  and  seek  counsel 
and  advice  that  should  come  from 
the  home?  Too  many  young  peo- 
ple are  afraid  to  discuss  intimate 
matters  with  parents  because  they 
are  shrugged  off  for  lack  of  interest, 
or  time,  or  it  is  something  not  to 
be  talked  about,  when  to  youth  it 
is  important  and  maybe  a  pressing 
matter,  a  problem  with  which  they 
are  presently  faced.  A  satisfying 
answer  and  wise  direction  may  be 
needed  to  protect  and  safeguard 
them  against  pitfalls  that  might  be 
imminent  in  their  lives.  Youth  re- 
quire understanding  and  help  in 
the  process  of  growing  up,  for  it  is 
the  most  critical  and  important 
time  in  their  lives. 
OARENTS  should  constantly  ana- 
lyze the  home  to  be  sure  it  is 
an  ideal  home  according  to  the 
highest  Church  standards,  with  a 
proper  environment  conducive  to 
joyful  and  fruitful  living.  Does  the 
home  promote  love  and  affection? 
Is  there  respect  of  children  toward 
parents  and  parents  toward  chil- 
dren? Are  the  teachings  of  the  gos- 
pel fully  lived  in  the  home?  What 
about  daily  family  prayer?  Is  the 
recommended  weekly  family  home 
night  religiously  followed?  Is  the 
family  home  program  of  activities 
and  functions   occasionally  revised 
to  meet  the  changing  needs  of  chil- 
dren in  growing  up  to  enliven  inter- 
est and  promote  development  and 
progress  in  family  and  social  rela- 
tionships? Is  the  gospel  taught  and 
the  principles  of  morality  discussed 
in  language  that  will  interest  youth 
and  give  them  understanding  to 
help  them  obtain  the  basic,  whole- 
some satisfactions  in  life  which  in- 
clude deeper  fundamental  loyalties 
such  as  love  of  God,  love  of  the 
Savior,  love  of  the  gospel,  love  of 
the  Church,  love  of  fellow  men, 
self-respect,  the  attainment  of  a 
happy  marriage  and  an  ideal  family 
life,  which  provide  a  bulwark  against 
material  and  worldly  things?  Are 
parents  counseling,  guiding,  and 
assisting  their  children  to  find  and 
cultivate  wholesome  Church  com- 
panionships that  will  as  far  as  pos- 
sible assure  dating  with  Latter-day 
Saint  boys  and  girls  that  eventually 
will  lead  to  their  marrying  within 
the  Church,  and  properly  in  the 
temples  of  our  God?  Have  parents 
worthily  set  the  example  of  temple 
marriage  before  their  children  and 
honorably  fulfilled  all  covenants  and 
obligations  received  and  accepted 
in  the  house  of  the  Lord?  Can 
these  important  responsibilities  and 
opportunities  for  blessings  mean 
any  more  to  children  than  to  par- 
ents? Parents  should  reflect  back 
upon  their  own  youth  and  activi- 
ties. Problems  are  not  so  much  dif- 
ferent between  then  and  now  ex- 
cept in  today's  more  modern  world 
of  fewer  restraints  and  less  inhibi- 
tions they  are  found  in  diverse  and 
various  dress  which  parents  are  not 
excused  from  knowing  if  they  de- 
sire to  give  wise  counsel  and  guid- 
ance to  their  sons  and  daughters.