[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: 754 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Moroni Explains Principles and Ordinances of the Gospel Leland H. Monson]
LESSON   DEPARTMENT 
cJ  neology — Characters  and  Teachings 
of  The  Book  of  Mormon 
Lesson  45— Moroni  Explains  Principles  and  Ordinances  of  the  Gospel 
Elder  Lehnd  H.  Monson 
(Text:  The  Book  of  Mormon:  the  Book  of  Mormon,  chapters  8  and  9;  the  Book  of 
Ether,  chapters  5  and  12:5-41;  the  Book  of  Moroni,  chapters  1-7,  and  chapter  10) 
For  Tuesday,  February  5,  1957 
Objective:    To  show  ".  .  .  if  the  day  cometh  that  the  power  and  gifts  of  God  shall 
be  done  away  among  you,  it  shall  be  because  of  unbelief"  (Moroni  10:24). 
Moroni  the  Last 
Nephite  Survivor 
I7OR  a  period  of  at  least  twenty- 
one  years  (400-421  a.d.),  Mo- 
roni, son  of  Mormon,  roamed  the 
wilderness  and  the  plains,  as  the 
last,  sad  survivor  of  a  once  mighty 
people.  (See  Mormon  8:3-6.)  He 
was  a  wayfarer,  living  a  lonesome 
and  a  forlorn  life;  a  hunted  man, 
for  he  knew  that  if  the  Lamanites 
found  him  they  would  kill  him.  The 
manner  of  his  death  is  still  a  mys- 
tery. 
After  the  battle  of  Cumorah, 
fought  in  385  a.d.,  in  which  Moroni 
led  ten  thousand  people,  he  was 
given  custody  of  the  sacred  records, 
the  brass  plates,  the  twenty-four 
gold  plates,  the  large  plates  of  Ne- 
phi,  and  the  plates  of  Mormon,  in- 
cluding the  small  plates  of  Nephi. 
Moroni  studied  the  records  and 
familiarized  himself  with  the 
prophecies  foretelling  the  destruc- 
tion of  his  people  and  with  the  his- 
tory of  the  Nephites  and  the  Jared- 
ites.  He  engraved  an  abridg- 
ment of  the  Jaredites,  record- 
ed on  the  twenty-four  gold  plates, 
upon  his  father's  plates.  This  abridg- 
ment, the  Book  of  Ether,  was  the 
first  book  we  read  in  this  course  of 
study.  It  is  a  summary  of  a  great 
civilization  that  suffered  extinction 
because  the  people  sought  for  blood 
and  revenge  (Moroni  9:23),  and 
because  they  refused  to  serve  the 
God  of  this  land  who  is  Jesus  Christ. 
Moroni  Finishes  His  Father's  Book 
Before  engraving  the  history  of 
the  Jaredites  on  Mormon's  plates, 
Moroni  wrote  two  chapters  (chap- 
ters eight  and  nine)  to  conclude  his 
Page  761

762 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1956 
father's  book,  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. In  these  two  chapters,  he 
recounts  the  death  of  his  father  and 
all  other  Nephites  save  himself: 
And  my  father  also  was  killed  by  them, 
and  I  even  remain  alone  to  write  the  sad 
tale  of  the  destruction  of  my  people.  But 
behold,  they  are  gone,  and  I  fulfil  the 
commandment  of  my  father.  And  whether 
they  will  slay  me,  I  know  not   (Mormon 
8:3). 
Conditions  in  Latter  Days  Given 
Moroni  relates  the  conditions  that 
would  exist  when  his  father's  rec- 
ord would  come  forth,  he  gives  his 
testimony  concerning  the  three 
Nephites  and  Jesus  Christ,  and 
addresses  unbelievers. 
Moroni  writes: 
Behold,  I  speak  unto  you  as  if  ye  were 
present,  and  yet  ye  are  not.  But  behold, 
Jesus  Christ  hath  shown  you  unto  me,  and 
I  know  your  doing  (Mormon  8:35). 
There  was  no  question  in  Mo- 
roni's mind  about  the  coming  forth 
of  the  writings: 
And  no  one  need  say  they  shall  not 
come,  for  they  surely  shall,  for  the  Lord 
hath  spoken  it;  for  out  of  the  earth  shall 
they  come,  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord,  and 
none  can  stay  it;  and  it  shall  come  in  a 
day  when  it  shall  be  said  that  miracles 
are  done  away;  and  it  shall  come  even  as 
if  one  should  speak  from  the  dead  (Mor- 
mon 8:26). 
Moroni  describes  the  social  and 
religious  conditions  that  would  ex- 
ist at  the  time  of  the  coming  forth 
of  the  record: 
And  it  shall  come  in  a  day  when  the 
blood  of  saints  shall  cry  unto  the  Lord, 
because  of  secret  combinations  and  the 
works  of  darkness  (Mormon  8:27). 
He  further  testifies  that: 
Yea,  it  shall  come  in  a  day  when  the 
power  of  God  shall  be  denied,  and  church- 
es become  defiled  and  be  lifted  up  in  the 
pride  of  their  hearts;  yea,  even  in  a  day 
when  leaders  of  churches  and  teachers 
shall  rise  in  the  pride  of  their  hearts,  even 
to  the  envying  of  them  who  belong  to 
their  churches. 
Yea,  it  shall  come  in  a  day  when  there 
shall  be  heard  of  fires,  and  tempests,  and 
vapors  of  smoke  in  foreign  lands; 
And  there  shall  also  be  heard  of  wars, 
rumors  of  wars,  and  earthquakes  in  divers 
places   (Mormon   8:28-30). 
Moroni  further  notes  that  the 
record  will  come  forth  in  a  day 
when,  ".  .  .  there  shall  be  churches 
built  up  that  shall  say:  Come  unto 
me,  and  for  your  money  you  shall 
be  forgiven  of  your  sins"  (Mormon 
8:32),  in  a  day  when  churches  will 
have  been  built  ". .  .  to  get  gain  . .  ." 
(Mormon  8:33). 
And  I  know  that  ye  do  walk  in  the 
pride  of  your  hearts;  and  there  are  none 
save  a  few  only  who  do  not  lift  themselves 
up  in  the  pride  of  their  hearts,  unto  the 
wearing  of  very  fine  apparel,  unto  envy- 
ing, and  strifes,  and  malice,  and  persecu- 
tions, and  all  manner  of  iniquities;  and 
your  churches,  yea,  even  every  one,  have 
become  polluted  because  of  the  pride  of 
your  hearts. 
For  behold,  ye  do  love  money,  and 
your  substance,  and  your  fine  apparel,  and 
the  adorning  of  your  churches,  more  than 
ye  love  the  poor  and  the  needy,  the  sick 
and  the  afflicted   (Mormon  8:36-37). 
Address  to  Unbelievers 
To  the  unbelievers,  Moroni  says: 
.  .  .  turn  ye  unto  the  Lord,  cry  might- 
ily unto  the  Father  in  the  name  of  Jesus, 
that  perhaps  ye  may  be  found  spotless, 
pure,  fair,  and  white,  having  been  cleansed 
by  the  blood  of  the  Lamb,  at  that  great 
and  last  day  (Mormon  9:6). 
To  those  who  deny  latter-day 
revelation  and  the  gifts  of  the  spirit,

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
763 
he   says   that   they  know   not   the 
gospel: 
For  do  we  not  read  that  God  is  the 
same  yesterday,  today,  and  forever,  and  in 
him  there  is  no  variableness  neither  shad- 
ow of  changing?  (Mormon  9:9). 
Moroni  states  that  the  only  rea- 
son for  a  lack  of  miracles  is  a  lack 
of  faith  in  God.  (Mormon  9:20) 
Recalling  the  visit  of  Christ  to  the 
Nephites,  Moroni  calls  attention  to 
the  fact  that  Jesus  said: 
And  these  signs  shall  follow  them  that 
believe — in  my  name  shall  they  cast  out 
devils;  they  shall  speak  with  new  tongues; 
they  shall  take  up  serpents;  and  if  they 
drink  any  deadly  thing  it  shall  not  hurt 
them;  they  shall  lay  hands  on  the  sick 
and  they  shall  recover  (Mormon  9:24). 
Moroni  calls  upon  unbelievers, 
"Be  wise  in  the  days  of  your  proba- 
tion ....  See  that  ye  art  not  bap- 
tized unworthily;  see  that  ye  partake 
not  of  the  sacrament  of  Christ  un- 
worthily; but  see  that  ye  do  all 
things  in  worthiness,  and  do  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God;  and  if  ye  do  this, 
and  endure  to  the  end,  ye  will  in 
nowise  be  cast  out"  (Mormon 
9:28-29). 
In  concluding  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, Moroni  asks  those  to  whom 
the  record  will  come: 
Condemn  me  not  because  of  mine  im- 
perfection, neither  my  father,  because  of 
his  imperfection,  neither  them  who  have 
written  before  him;  but  rather  give  thanks 
unto  God  that  he  hath  made  manifest 
unto  you  our  imperfections,  that  ye  may 
learn  to  be  more  wise  than  we  have  been 
(Mormon  9:31). 
Discourse  on  Faith 
When  Moroni  was  abridging  the 
Book  of  Ether,  he  inserted  some  of 
his  own  teachings  and  experiences 
which  are  inspirational  and  reveal 
the  greatness  of  Moroni's  character. 
He  addresses  chapter  5  of  Ether  to 
the  future  translator  of  his  writings, 
saying  that  the  plates  may  be  shown 
unto  three  by  the  power  of  God. 
In  the  twelfth  chapter  of  Ether, 
Moroni  gives  a  discourse  on  faith: 
...  I  would  show  unto  the  world  that 
faith  is  things  which  are  hoped  for  and 
not  seen;  wherefore,  dispute  not  because 
ye  see  not,  for  ye  receive  no  witness  until 
after  the  trial  of  your  faith. 
For  it  was  by  faith  that  Christ  showed 
himself  unto  our  fathers,  after  he  had  ris- 
en from  the  dead;  and  he  showed  not  him- 
self unto  them  until  after  they  had  faith 
in  him;  wherefore,  it  must  needs  be  that 
some  had  faith  in  him,  for  he  showed 
himself  not  unto  the  world. 
Wherefore,  by  faith  was  the  law  of 
Moses  given.  But  in  the  gift  of  his  Son 
hath  God  prepared  a  more  excellent  way; 
and  it  is  by  faith  that  it  hath  been  ful- 
filled. 
For  if  there  be  no  faith  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men  God  can  do  no  miracle  among 
them;  wherefore,  he  showed  not  himself 
until  after  their  faith. 
Behold,  it  was  the  faith  of  Alma  and 
Amulek  that  caused  the  prison  to  tumble 
to  the  earth. 
Behold,  it  was  the  faith  of  Nephi  and 
Lehi  that  wrought  the  change  upon  the 
Lamanites,  that  they  were  baptized  with 
fire  and  with  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Behold,  it  was  the  faith  of  Amnion  and 
his  brethren  which  wrought  so  great  a 
miracle  among  the  Lamanites. 
Yea,  and  even  all  they  who  wrought 
miracles  wrought  them  by  faith,  even  those 
who  were  before  Christ  and  also  those 
who  were  after. 
And  it  was  by  faith  that  the  three  dis- 
ciples obtained  a  promise  that  they  should 
not  taste  of  death;  and  they  obtained  not 
the  promise  until  after  their  faith. 
And  neither  at  any  time  hath  any 
wrought   miracles    until   after    their   faith;

764 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1956 
wherefore  they  first  believed  in   the  Son 
of  God. 
And  there  were  many  whose  faith  was 
so  exceeding  strong,  even  before  Christ 
came,  who  could  not  be  kept  from  within 
the  veil,  but  truly  saw  with  their  eyes  the 
things  which  they  had  beheld  with  an 
eye  to  faith,  and  they  were  glad. 
And  behold,  we  have  seen  in  this  rec- 
ord that  one  of  these  was  the  brother  of 
Jared  .  .  .  (Ether  12:6-7,  n-20). 
Moroni  points  out  that  it  was  by 
faith  that  his  ancestors  obtained  the 
promise  that  the  record  should 
come  to  their  brethren  through  the 
Gentiles,  and  he  expresses  a  fear 
which  he  told  the  Lord  that  the 
Gentiles  would  mock,  when  they 
would  receive  the  record,  because 
of  the  Nephites'  weakness  in  writ- 
ing. Moroni  then  states  that  the 
Lord  had  made  the  Nephites 
".  .  .  mighty  in  word  by  faith  .  .  ." 
(Ether  12:23),  but  not  in  writing: 
.  .  .  because  of  the  awkwardness  of  our 
hands.  Behold,  thou  hast  not  made  us 
mighty  in  writing  like  unto  the  brother 
of  Jared,  for  thou  madest  him  that  the 
things  which  he  wrote  were  mighty  even 
as  thou  art,  unto  the  overpowering  of 
man  to  read  them. 
Thou  hast  also  made  our  words  power- 
ful and  great,  even  that  we  cannot  write 
them;  wherefore,  when  we  write  we  be- 
hold our  weakness,  and  stumble  because 
of  the  placing  of  our  words;  and  I  fear 
lest  the  Gentiles  shall  mock  at  our  words. 
And  when  I  had  said  this,  the  Lord 
spake  unto  me,  saying:  Fools  mock,  but 
they  shall  mourn;  and  my  grace  is  suf- 
ficient for  the  meek,  that  they  shall  take 
no  advantage  of  your  weakness  .... 
I  give  unto  men  weakness  that  they 
may  be  humble  .... 
Behold,  I  will  show  unto  the  Gentiles 
their  weakness,  and  I  will  show  unto 
them  that  faith,  hope  and  charity  bring- 
eth  unto  me — the  fountain  of  all  right- 
eousness (Ether  12:24-28). 
And  Moroni  says  that  he  was 
comforted.  He  recalled  that  the 
brother  of  Jared  removed  a  moun- 
tain by  faith,  ".  .  .  wherefore  thou 
workest  after  men  have  faith  .... 
And  I  also  remember  .  .  .  man  must 
hope,  or  he  cannot  receive  an  in- 
heritance in  the  place  which  thou 
hast  prepared"  (Ether  12:30,  32). 
And  again,  I  remember  that  thou  hast 
said  that  thou  hast  loved  the  world,  even 
unto  the  laying  clown  of  thy  life  for  the 
world,  that  thou  mightest  take  it  again 
to  prepare  a  place  for  the  children  of  men. 
And  now  I  know  that  this  love  which 
thou  hast  had  for  the  children  of  men  is 
charity;  wherefore,  except  men  shall  have 
charity  they  cannot  inherit  that  place 
which  thou  hast  prepared  in  the  man- 
sions of  thy  Father. 
Wherefore,  1  know  by  this  thing  which 
thou  hast  said,  that  if  the  Gentiles  have 
not  charity,  because  of  our  weakness,  that 
thou  wilt  prove  them,  and  take  away 
their  talent,  yea,  even  that  which  they 
have  received,  and  give  unto  them  who 
shall  have  more  abundantly. 
And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  prayed  unto 
the  Lord  that  he  would  give  unto  the 
Gentiles  grace,  that  they  might  have 
charity. 
And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord  said 
unto  me:  If  they  have  not  charity  it  mat- 
tereth  not  unto  thee,  thou  hast  been  faith- 
ful; wherefore,  thy  garments  shall  be  made 
clean.  And  because  thou  hast  seen  thy 
weakness  thou  shalt  be  made  strong,  even 
unto  the  sitting  down  in  the  place  which 
I  have  prepared  in  the  mansions  of  my 
Father. 
And  now  I,  Moroni,  bid  farewell  unto 
the  Gentiles,  yea,  and  also  unto  my 
brethren  whom  I  love,  until  we  shall  meet 
before  the  judgment-seat  of  Christ,  where 
all  men  shall  know  that  my  garments  are 
not  spotted  with  your  blood. 
And   then   shall  ye   know   that  I  have

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
765 
seen  Jesus,  and  that  he  hath  talked  with 
me  face  to  face,  and  that  he  told  me  in 
plain  humility,  even  as  a  man  telleth  an- 
other in  mine  own  language  concerning 
these  things; 
And  only  a  few  have  I  written,  because 
of  my  weakness  in  writing. 
And  now,  I  would  commend  you  to 
seek  this  Jesus  of  whom  the  prophets  and 
apostles  have  written,  that  the  grace  of 
God  the  Father,  and  also  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  bear- 
eth  record  of  them,  may  be  and  abide 
in  you  forever.     Amen  (Ether  12:33-41). 
Teachings  of  the  Book  of  Moroni 
In  beginning  the  Book  of  Mo- 
roni, Moroni  says: 
Now  I,  Moroni,  after  having  made  an 
end  of  abridging  the  account  of  the  peo- 
ple of  Jared,  I  had  supposed  not  to  have 
written  more,  but  I  have  not  as  yet 
perished;  and  I  make  not  myself  known 
to  the  Lamanites  lest  they  should  destroy 
me  (Moroni  1:1). 
Moroni  then  discusses  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  He 
informs  us  that  he  writes  these 
things: 
.  .  .  that  perhaps  they  may  be  of  worth 
unto  my  brethren,  the  Lamanites,  in  some 
future  day,  according  to  the  will  of  the 
Lord  (Moroni  1:4). 
Moroni  tells  them  concerning  the 
bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the 
Nephite  twelve.  He  writes  concern- 
ing the  ordination  of  priests  and 
teachers.  Moroni  also  gives  the  two 
prayers  used  by  the  Nephites  in  ad- 
ministering the  bread  and  wine, 
both  of  which  we  use  today  in  our 
sacramental  service.  Finally,  he 
specifies  the  conditions  and  mode 
of  baptism.  People  were  not  bap- 
tized except  ".  .  .  they  came  forth 
with  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite 
spirit,     and    witnessed     unto     the 
church  that  they  truly  repented  of 
all  their  sins"  (Moroni  6:2).  After 
this  ordinance  was  performed  they 
were  numbered  among  the  people 
of  the  Church. 
The  people  met  together  fre- 
quently: 
...  to  fast  and  to  pray,  and  to  speak 
one  with  another  concerning  the  welfare 
of  their  souls  ....  And  ...  to  partake 
of  bread  and  wine,  in  remembrance  of  the 
Lord  Jesus   (Moroni  6:5-6). 
These  people: 
.  .  .  were  strict  to  observe  that  there 
should  be  no  iniquity  among  them;  and 
whoso  was  found  to  commit  iniquity,  and 
three  witnesses  of  the  church  did  con- 
demn them  before  the  elders,  and  if  they 
repented  not,  and  confessed  not,  their 
names  were  blotted  out  .... 
But  as  oft  as  they  repented  and  sought 
forgiveness,  with  real  intent,  they  were 
forgiven    (Moroni   6:7-8). 
Obtaining  a  Testimony  oi 
The  Book  of  Mormon 
Moroni,  finally,  closes  his  book 
and,  of  course,  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, writing  to  his  brethren,  the 
Lamanites,  and  giving  some  specific 
instructions  on  how  a  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  The  Book  of  Mormon 
may  be  obtained: 
Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when 
ye  shall  read  these  things,  if  it  be  wisdom 
in  God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that 
ye  would  remember  how  merciful  the  Lord 
hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men, 
from  the  creation  of  Adam  even  down 
until  the  time  that  ye  shall  receive  these 
things,  and  ponder  it  in  your  hearts. 
And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  tidings, 
I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of 
Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true;  and 
if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with 
real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ,  he 
will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you, 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.