[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Haycock]
Squeeze out liquid Page 744 RECIPES FROM THE HAWAII MISSION 745 through a cheesecloth. Place fresh milk and coconut milk in double boiler and, when warm, add the cornstarch and sugar which has been mixed with a little of the coconut milk, and then the salt and lemon extract. This may be served either in individual dishes, or cut in squares and eaten by hand. PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA WHIP 1% c. Pineapple juice 2 egg yolks. 2 tbsp. Minute tapioca % Cc. Whipping cream " tsp. Vanilla extract 3 tbsp. Sugar Bring pineapple juice to a boil, add tapioca, and cook slowly until clear, then mix sugar with eggs. Combine the two mixtures and cook for a few minutes. Cool and add vanilla, stirring it once in awhile. When cool, fold in the whipped cream and pour into glasses. Chill before serving. Coconut MACAROONS ¥% c. Sifted flour 1 egg white % c. Sugar 1% c. Grated fresh coconut % c. Light corn syrup Mix flour and sugar and stir in syrup gradually so the mixture will not form lumps. Beat egg white until stiff and fold in coconut. Add the sugar and flour mixture. Shape into small balls, place on slightly buttered baking sheet, and flatten a little with a knife. Bake in 400° oven for ten minutes, and, if not browned, place under broiler heat for a minute or two. PANIOLA Hawaiian Cowboy Stew 2 Ibs. Beef, cut into 24 tbsp. Salt 1% inch cubes " tsp. Pepper shoyu (soy sauce) enough 1 tsp. Brown sugar to cover cubes 6 carrots 2 tbsp. Bacon fat 4 potatoes 4 c. Boiling water 1% C. Cut green beans 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 6 small white onions 1 tsp. Garlic powder 2 tbsp. Flour "% ¢. Chopped onion 4 tbsp. Cold water Soak beef in shoyu (soy sauce). Brown well in bacon fat, then add water, Worcestershire sauce, garlic powder, chopped onion, salt, pepper, and brown sugar, and let simmer for one and one half hours, stirrimg occasionally. Cut carrots into one-inch pieces and potatoes into one-inch cubes and add vegetables to meat and cook until done. Dissolve flour in water and add to stew and cook until gravy is thickened. Pork Cuorp Suey 1 c. Canned bean sprouts 2 ae sliced mushrooms lc. Chopped cooked pork 1 ¢. Chicken broth 1 c. Chopped celery 1 tsp. Cornstarch % c. Green pepper strips 2 tbsp. Cold water % c. Chopped onion 2 tbsp. Shoyu (soy sauce) Saute celery, onion, mushrooms, and pork in butter for three minutes. Add pepper, bean sprouts, cornstarch mixed in water, and chicken broth. Bring mixture to boiling point and simmer for four minutes. (French style or thinly cut string beans or thin strips of carrots may also be added, if desired.) Serve with fluffy white rice.