[Vol31 | June 1944 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Offering Gabbott]
THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CZECHOSLOVAKIA 
307 
prewar  days,  and  intensely  disliked 
by  the  Czechs,  formed  a  strong  and 
dangerous  opposition  unit.  Until 
1926,  these  groups  refused  to  co- 
operate and  boycotted  parliamentary 
elections.  Since  1926,  however, 
largely  because  of  President  Mazar- 
yk's  diplomacy  and  influence,  a  bet- 
ter spirit  prevailed  for  awhile.  In 
that  year,  two  Germans  were  ap- 
pointed to  cabinet  positions  in  the 
government  and  Germans  partici- 
pated for  the  first  time  in  the  gen- 
eral elections.  However,  extreme 
nationalists  from  both  German  and 
Czech  factions  succeeded  in  keep- 
ing alive  the  flames  of  animosity  ex- 
isting between  the  two  peoples,  and 
thereby  prepared  the  way  for  Goeb- 
bel's  skillful  program  of  Nazi  propa- 
ganda. 
Relations  with  the  Carpathio- 
Russians  have  been  even  more 
strained.  Ruthenia  was  assigned  to 
Czechoslovakia  by  the  Peace  Con- 
ference in  order  to  provide  a  new 
state  with  a  natural  boundary  in  the 
Carpathian  Mountains  and  also  to 
bring  it  into  direct  contact  with  Ru- 
rnania,  thus  forming  a  solid  ring 
about  Hungary.  Now,  while  the 
Czechs  by  treaty  provisions  are 
bound  to  grant  the  Ruthenians  aut- 
onomy, they  have  hesitated  to  do  so 
and  instead  have  appointed  Czechs 
to  important  offices.  The  govern- 
ment justified  its  policy  on  the 
ground  that  the  Ruthenians  con- 
stitute a  relatively  backward  and 
largely  illiterate  group,  which,  if  left 
to  themselves,  would  fall  under  the 
control  of  the  better-educated  Mag- 
yars and  Jews  within  the  province. 
The  situation  was  alleviated  some- 
what when,  in  1928,  laws  were 
passed  which  reorganized  the  entire 
provincial  administration  and  grant- 
ed Ruthenia  practically  complete  lo- 
cal autonomy. 
The  population  question  is  fur- 
ther complicated  by  the  antagonism 
of  the  Czechs  and  Slovaks  them- 
selves. The  Czechs,  who  outnum- 
ber the  Slovaks  almost  two  to  one, 
are  somewhat  more  westernized 
than  their  compatriots  and  tend  to 
dominate  the  governmental  part- 
nership. They  have  a  higher  per- 
centage of  literacy  than  the  Slovaks 
and  are  much  more  interested  in 
commerce  and  industry  than  in  agri- 
culture. Disagreements  and  quar- 
rels, sometimes  to  the  accompani- 
ment of  bloodshed,  soon  arose.  The 
Slovaks  accused  the  Czechs  of  mo- 
nopolizing the  desirable  offices  and 
of  violating,  at  least  in  spirit,  the 
'Tittsburgh  Pact"  of  1918,  wherein 
Mazaryk,  in  order  to  get  the  support 
of  the  American  Slovaks  for  his 
Czech-Slovak  unification  project, 
was  said  to  have  given  a  promise  of 
Slovak  autonomy.  Since  1926, 
thanks  again  to  the  diplomatic  ef- 
forts of  President  Mazaryk,  the  ten- 
sion between  the  two  peoples  be- 
came very  much  alleviated. 
•npHE  consummation  of  Anschluss 
(the  annexation  of  Austria  to  the 
Reich)  in  April  1938,  was  the  signal 
for  more  bellicose  unrest  among  the 
Czechoslovaks.  Clearly  the  aim 
of  Hitler  was  the  annexation  of  the 
republic.  War  was  narrowly  avert- 
ed in  the  month  of  May  1938.  A 
frontier  altercation  resulted  in  the 
death  of  two  Germans.  Hitler 
promptly  cut  off  negotiations  with 
the  Czechs  and  rushed  troops  to  the 
border.  Czechoslovakia  as  prompt- 
ly mobilized  and  hastened  400,000 
troops  to  her  frontiers.  France  and 
Russia,  as  allies  of  the   Little  En-

308  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1944 
tente,  affirmed  their  support,  and  Munich,  in  September  1938. 
when  Britain  strongly  endorsed  the  Czechoslovakia  was  an  uninvited  on- 
Czech  position,  Hitler  withdrew  his  looker  as  the  four  statesmen- 
troops.  Nevertheless,  despite  the  un-  Chamberlain,  Deladier,  Mussolini, 
toward  turn  of  this  crisis,  the  and  Hitler,  carved  up  the  unhappy 
Fuehrer  did  not  give  up  his  inten-  republic,  according  to  the  infamous 
tions  of  incorporating  hapless  Godesberg  ultimatum.  Four  zones 
Czechoslovakia  within  the  German  were  to  be  occupied  by  the  Germans. 
Reich.  A  fifth  was  created  in  which  there 
In  September  1938,  there  oc-  was  supposed  to  be  plebiscites.  But 
curred  renewed  uprisings  among  the  •  the  final  result  proved  this  stipula- 
Sudeten  Germans.  The  British  am-  tion  to  be  a  farce.  The  Germans  took 
bassador,  Lord  Runciman,  declared  what  they  wanted,  marched  to  with- 
later  that  these  had  been  incited  by  in  forty  miles  of  Prague,  and  ab- 
Nazi  agitators.  President  Benes  at  sorbed  about  750,000  Czechs  in  the 
once  declared  martial  law.  Shortly  new  Germany.  As  they  did  so,  the 
afterwards,  the  British  prime  min-  Poles  invaded  Teschen,  annexing 
ister,  Neville  Chamberlain,  an-  about  80,000  Poles  and  100,000 
nounced  his  intention  of  flying  by  Czechs.  Hungary  then  advanced 
airplane  to  consult  with  Hitler.  This  from  the  south,  crossed  the  Danube, 
was  to  be  the  first  of  three  trips  *'to  and  took  Bratislava. 
Canossa"  which  the  Prime  Minister  But  still  the  Nazis  were  not  satis- 
of  England  was  to  take,  ''successful  fied.  Hitler  had  himself  solemnly 
trips  all  of  them  in  humiliating  sub-  pledged  to  go  no  farther,  but  he  had 
servience  to  the  will  of  the  German  not  the  slightest  intention  of  keep- 
dictator."  The  first  flight  was  to  ing  his  word.  Having  swallowed 
Berchtesgaden,  where  he  was  told  somewhat  more  than  one-third  of 
by  Hitler  that  Germany  insisted  on  the  area  of  Czechoslovakia,  he  was 
the  instant  inclusion  of  the  Sudeten  still  greedy  for  more.  The  Germans, 
Germans  in  the  German  Reich,  ev-  thereupon,  demanded  and  obtained 
en  at  the  cost  of  a  general  war.  This  a  corridor  across  what  was  left  of  the 
proposition  was  not  only  acceded  to  republic  for  a  military  highway;  they 
by  Britain  and  France,  but  the  two  demanded  also  and  obtained  the 
erstwhile  friends  of  the  hapless  re-  right  to  decide  on  the  destinies  of 
public  agreed  to  even  greater  hu-  Slovakia  and  Ruthenia.  When  Ha- 
miliation;  namely,  that  the  reduced  cha,  last  president  of  the  republic, 
republic  should  ''renounce  all  the  protested,  he,  like  the  Austrian 
treaties  of  defense  with  other  coun-  Schuschnigg  before  him,  was  sum- 
tries,  suppress  all  anti-German  agita-  moned  before  the  presence  of  Hit- 
tion,  and  enter  into  close  economic  ler.  Hacha's  going,  however,  was  a 
relations  with  the  Reich."  mere    formality.     Even    before    he 
But  even  these  humiliating  con-  reached  Berlin,  the  German    army 
cessions  did  not    satiate  the    Nazi  started  south  and  crossed  the  Czech 
dictator.    Continued  restlessness  by  border.    Once  at  Berlin,  the  Czech 
the  Sudeten-German  minority  led  to  President,  berated  and    browbeaten 
further   negotiations   and   the   final  by  Hitler,  signed    away    the    inde- 
conference  of  interested  parties    at  pendence    of    his    country.    Simul-

THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CZECHOSLOVAKIA  309 
taneously  as  he  did  so,  the  German  mans,  from  the  new  state.  Other 
army  entered  Prague.  Thus  perished  than  this  arrangement,  it  appears 
the  Repubhc  of  Czechoslovakia,  vie-  that  the  problem  might  be  ap- 
tim  of  one  of  the  most  ruthless  and  proached  and  appreciably  solved: 
brutal  outrages  in  all  history.  (i)  W  giving  more  autonomy  than 
Within  a  new  Czechoslovakia,  re-  heretofore  was  realized  to  all  mi- 
newed  consideration  must  be  given  nority  groups;  (2)  by  developing  a 
to  the  vexed  and  complicated  mi-  more  integrated  nationalism  through 
nority  problem  and  even  greater  a  well-planted  system  of  education; 
concessions  must  be  made.  It  may  and  (3)  by  effecting  a  greater  de- 
be  desirable  to  detach  Sudetenland,  centralization  of  public  administra- 
inhabited  almost  exclusively  by  Ger-  tion. 
» ♦ 
CONVOY 
Grace  A.  Coopei 
A  big  ship  slid  silently  from  its  moorings 
into  the  dark  water; 
One,  then  another,  smaller  vessel,  with  its  protection 
in  order 
Slipped  into  designated  place. 
A  thousand  men,  so  recently  boys,  stood  about  the  darkened 
deck. 
Feeling  the  strangeness  of  their  surroundings. 
They  had  come  from  varied  homes,  from  schools,  from  planned 
work; 
The  lives  of  many  had  been  convoyed 
Until  the  call  for  the  duration; 
Few  had  been  like  lone  ships,  sailing  the  deep  seas,  lonely 
but  unafraid; 
Some  were  going  on  a  high  adventure; 
Others,  resentful,  wanted  it  over  with. 
There  were  no  farewells  at  the  sailing- 
Only  the  universal  tears  from  the  great  heart  of  a  nation.

Sixty    LJears  KyLgo 
Excerpts  from  the  Woman's  Exponents,  June  i,  and  15,  1884 
"The  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion,  and  the  Rights  of 
THE  Women  of  All  Nations" 
Editorial:  Temple  Dedication — ^The  Dedication  of  the  Logan  Temple,  which  took 
place  May  17,  1884,  was  one  of  the  most  remarkable  events  that  has  transpired  in  the 
history  of  the  Church  .  .  .  Services  commenced  at  half  past  ten  a.m.,  President  John 
Taylor  presiding.  On  his  right  hand  sat  his  First  Counselor,  George  Q.  Cannon,  and 
on  his  left  his  Second  Counselor,  Joseph  F.  Smith;  President  Wilford  Woodruff  and 
Apostle  Lorenzo  Snow,  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  also  occupied  seats  on  either  side 
of  the  First  Presidency  .  .  .  Never  since  the  time  when  we  witnessed  the  remarkable, 
one  might  say  marvelous  occurrences,  which  transpired  in  Nauvoo  at  the  time  when 
the  mantle  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  appeared  so  plainly  to  fall  upon  Brigham  Young, 
have  we  seen  any  manifestation  of  divine  acceptance  so  distinctly  clear  as  during  the 
dedication  services  in  the  Logan  Temple.  A  sensation  as  though  myriads  of  angels  were 
in  attendance  and  taking  cognizance  of  that  which  transpired  .  .  .  The  hymns  of  praise, 
the  solemn  prayer  offering  the  house  unto  the  Most  High,  the  words  of  the  servants 
of  God  who  officiated  on  that  memorable  occasion,  and  the  thrilling  Hosannas  of  the 
multitude,  must  be  vividly  impressed  upon  every  one  who  has  the  spiritual  and  emotional 
nature  largely  developed. 
*  «  «  * 
Editorial  Notes:  The  Exponent  of  this  issue  ushers  in  the  new  volume  and  so 
many  of  the  subscribers  are  behind  in  their  payments,  we  wish  to  remind  them,  that 
they  may  come  forward  and  pay  up,  as  everybody  knows  newspapers  are  not  published 
without  money.  Now  is  a  good  time  to  settle  up  all  delinquencies,  and  also  to  subscribe 
for  the  coming  year. 
*     4e     «     If 
Extract  from  Laie  Letter:  Laie,  Oahu,  Sandwich  Islands,  April  17,  1884.  Mrs.  S. 
M.  Kimball,  Secretary  of  the  general  organization  of  Relief  Society:  Dear  Sister,  I  im-