[Vol31 | June 1944 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Adapted to the Sharp]
present  who  had  gone  along  with  said  it  was  "adapted  to  the  capacity 
the  crowd  in  smoking  and  drinking  of  the  weak,  and  the  weakest  of  all 
had  been  reared  a  Mormon.  saints,   who   are   or   can   be   called 
To    each    person    on    this    earth  saints."                                 M.C.S. 
Page  312

Sketch  Of  My  Life 
Eliza  R.  Snow  Smith 
CHAPTER  IV 
HAD  it  not  been  for  the  rich  Salt  Lake  Valley— a  City  site  was 
seasons    of    refreshing    from  being    surveyed,    etc.    etc.,    which 
above  which  we  experienced  prompted  a  feeling  that  we  had  a 
from  [time]  to  time,  with  renewing  definite  point  before  us— a  future 
influence;  it  really  seemed  as  though  peaceful  home, 
many  must  have  yielded    beneath  On  the  8th,  we  met  the  main 
the  weight  of  fatigue  and  exposure;  body  of  the  Pioneers,  led  by  Presi- 
who  were  thus  enabled  to  struggle  dent  B.  Young  and  H.  C.  Kimball, 
through.  who    were     returning    to    Winter 
But  with  all  that  was  so  kindly  Quarters  to  spend  the  winter.  It  was 
and  timely  bestowed,  deaths  made  a  joyful  time,  and  so  deeply  inter- 
occasional  inroads  in  our  traveling  ested  and  absorbed  were  all,  that 
camps.  Nursing  the  sick  in  tents  no  guard  was  kept,  and  about  forty 
and  wagons,  was  a  laborious  service;  horses  and  mules  were  stolen  in  the 
but  the  patient  faithfulness  with  night— some  of  them  were  not  re- 
which  it  was  performed,  is,  no  covered;  which  crippled  the  teams 
doubt,  registered  in  the  archives  and  impeded  our  progress,  for  many 
above  as  an  unfading  memento  of  times,  especially  in  ascending  hills, 
brotherly  and  sisterly  love.  the  teams  had  to  be  doubled,  thus 
The  burial  of  the  dead  by  the  way-  causing  much  delay.     But  with  all 
side  was  a  sad  office,  and  so  sad,  these,  and  other  impediments,    we 
that  had  it  not  been  for  a  genuine  strung  along  and  reached  the  val- 
feeling    of    sympathy    for    the    be-  ley,  one  company  after  another,  un- 
reaved,  I  would  not  have  witnessed  til  all  had  arrived.    Our  arrival  was 
its  performance.  on  the  2nd  of  October. 
On  the  4th  of  August,  we  met  Our  first  winter  in  the  moun- 
several  of  the  "Mormon  Battalion"  tains  was  delightful— the  ground 
—husbands  and  sons  of  women  in  froze  very  little— our  coldest  weath- 
our  Division;  and  to  see  the  care-  er  was  three  or  four  days  in  No- 
worn  faces  of  those  women,  beam-  vember,  after  which,  the  men 
ing  with  the  glow  of  exquisite  joy  plowed  and  sowed,  built  houses 
in  a  happy  reunion,  after  a  long,  (huts)  etc.,  during  the  winter— the 
toilsome  separation,  imparted  un-  temperature  truly  seemed  to  have 
speakable  pleasure  to  us  all.  been  particularly  ordered    to  meet 
On  the  17th,  a  letter  brought  by  our    very    peculiar    circumstances, 
brethren  returning  to  Winter  Quar-  Every  labor,  such  as  cultivating  the 
ters  for  their  families,  was  publicly  ground,  and  procuring  timber  and 
read,  confirming  the  cheering  report  fuel  from  the  canyons  was  an  experi- 
of  the  first  arrivals,  to  wit:  the  Pio-  ment— most  of  us  were  houseless: 
neers  have  found  a  location  in  Great  and   what    the   result,  would   have 
Page  313

314 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1944 
SOUTH  FORTS^  ~      NORTH  FORT' 
Fort,  Great  Salt  Lake  City>  1848. 
been,  had  that  winter  been  as  se- 
vere as  the  succeeding  ones,  the  Lord 
only  knows. 
The  small  amount  of  breadstuff 
brought  over  the  plains,  was  dealt 
out  sparingly;  and  our  beef,  made 
of  cows  and  oxen  that  drew  it,  was, 
before  they  had  time  to  fatten  on 
the  dry  mountain-grass,  very  in- 
ferior. Those  to  whom  it  yielded 
sufficient  fat  to  grease  their  grid- 
dles, were  considered  particularly 
fortunate.  But  we  were  happy  in 
the  rich  blessings  of  peace,  which, 
in  the  spirit  of  brotherly  and  sisterly 
union,  we  mutually  enjoyed  in  our 
wild  mountain  home,  and  what  we 
had,  seemed  to  be  multiplied  as  we 
carefully  and  thankfully  used  it. 
When  the  men  were  toiling  in