[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 162 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

I have been in Helsinki, Finland, for two years, and in Bergen, Norway, for a year and a half. When I was in Finland, I would take my Magazine with me to Relief Society and sit and read the lessons in English while the sisters were enjoying them in Finnish. The Magazine also helped me in preparing talks for Church. The little Haaga Branch in Helsinki, Finland, has one of the best organized Relief Societies that I have attended in the mission field. The group was small, but made of humble, loving sisters. But now they have a new chapel and a beautiful room and they are proud of it. I hope the sisters in Bergen will enjoy their new chapel and room when the building is finished. The sisters in Bergen are busy knitting Norwegian style sweaters for their building fund. They do beautiful work. Mildred Johanson Bergen, Norway I feel I must write and say thank you for the Relief Society Magazine which I sincerely appreciate and enjoy reading each month. I am always enraptured with the lovely pictures of trees, mountains, and lakes used as cover pictures, for I love all the things of nature that God has given for our enjoyment. I see his touch in everything, and, regardless of what man is doing, it will always be a_ beautiful world to me. Ella Palmer Westmead New South Wales Australia Our Magazine is one of so few that I keep. We don't have much room to keep things, but this is one I! Will keep. A woman gave me some of her Magazines, and these I keep with mine. How she could give away the Magazine is beyond me, with ail the helps and spiritual, uplifting material in it. Mrs. Sherri Jonte San Pablo, California 162 ae Just a word to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. I have used back issues, as well as each current issue, over and over again in the mission, for work projects, talk topics, and personal inspiration. Our Indian sisters love the Magazine, too. Many of them have expressed their appreciation, especially for the poetry and the lov. Color illustrations. The conference dress, ''Love, the Measuring Rod," Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (in t November 1965 issue) must have b written for my particular benefit. Estella L. Far Relief Society Supervi Northern Indian Missi Rapid City, South Da I agree with Mrs. Openshaw's comm (in the January issue of the Magazi about Dorothy Roberts' poem "Ye day's Gold."' It haunts me, too. Y ago, Dorothy, Margery S. Stewart, 1, and our three little daughters s a day together in an autumn can I can see the very gold-and-sh spot of which she speaks. And I th her words were for all of us. I proud to have these talented a beautiful women among my friends enjoyed all the poetry written by contest winners in the January M zine. The photography in the M zine is exquisite. Christie Lund Provo, U For several years now my dear cou Mrs. Vera Pettit of Layton, Utah, kindly been sending my family T Relief Society Magazine. As my h band and I prepare talks and less for Sunday services, with the child all taking part, we have on m occasions used messages and poe from the Magazine. The color pho graphs are wonderful. We have two missionaries call on us. They wonderful young men. Long may t Magazine send out its truths. Barbara Ki -.
