[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 169 | Poem | The Gospel Iris | W. Schow]
THE GOSPEL Iris W. Schow The gospel is a flaxen tent Upon the desert of the earth; It is a purse whose contents, shared, Retain their undiminished worth. The gospel is a sparkling spring Whence living waters ever flow; A box of spikenard which has been Prepared against the hour of woe. The gospel is a fertile field; White for the harvesting it lies; And all who reap its shéaves of truth Shall see mankind through quickened eyes. 169 The Importance of the Family Home Evening in a Latterday Saint Home @ As I face this great audience of Relief Society workers, it comes most forcibly to me the tremendous potential power for good you sisters have in developing testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ as the Son of the living God in the minds and hearts of the members. Of the family. To enable us to accomplish this, the General Authorities have provided for us a course of study, known as the Family Home Evening, where we can gather our children around us and teach them the gospel. This is to be a Priesthood supervised evening, wherein the father is to take his place as patriarch and head of his family; where the mother takes her place at his side, that they may work together. Of what importance is_ the home organization? Where did it originate and what is its purpose? The late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in his inspiring talk on "Our Homes" (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 802), said, "To the Latter-day Saint, the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the Heavens. Thus we came from a celestial home to this earth; we shall return to a celestial home when we leave this world,' — when all God's laws have been obeyed. 170 Elna P. Haymond Member, General Board of Relief Society [Talk Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965. ] This clearly states that we all belonged to a heavenly home where heavenly parents taught eternal truths, guided, inspired, and loved the children of that home. Does this inspire us to do the same, to accept the program as given to us, to work out a way whereby all families—large or small, old or young, few or many —can meet and follow the program? President Clark further states that great laws have been given the Latter-day Saint