[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 226 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
pating in the fun. Booths were decorated, and the sisters were costumed to represent the following countries: Ireland (for sale of linens and gifts); France (beauty needs and flower arrangements); Germany (the candy shop); Holland (the bakery, with homemade cakes, pies, bread, and cookies); Japan (the fish pond, which was a favorite with the children); Mexico (the tables were decorated to represent this country, and tamales, meat pies. Chili, hot dogs, hamburgers, and steamed puddings were sold). "Girls in different native costumes entertained with dances on the stage every fifteen minutes. A nursery was maintained and cartoons were shown." Officers of the Pleasant Grove Seventh Ward Relief Society are: LaPreal Lundgren, President; Dora Hales, First Counselor; Mavis Hamilton, Second Counselor; and Janet Parry, Secretary-Treasurer. Bountiful South Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert "Our Society In Song" September 24, 1965 Eulala H. Butters, President, Bountiful South Stake Relief Society, reports: "A beautiful evening of song was presented, with the theme '... And the night will be filled with the sound of music, and your cares will float away.' Barbara Peterson was the director, with Ruth Christensen and Carolyn Talbot as accompanists. The script for the concert was written by Eleanor Hoaglund, with Elaine McKay as narrator. The combined voices of sixty-five women of our ten-ward stake presented this lovely program as a special tribute to the visiting teachers, their husbands, and friends. It was the culmination of an afternoon of a 'Festival of Arts' in which each of the wards depicted in display, arts and crafts, and all types of handiwork. Coy Tyson, stake work meeting leader, and Edith Sharp, Work Counselor, were in charge of this affair. "After the program everyone was invited into the cultural hall for refreshments. We were delighted with the success of this lovely day, and with the attendance of over 500 people." 226 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.

See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. GERMAN vt Shop oe MARCH 1966 North Idaho Falls Stake (idaho) Relief Society Display Featured at Opening Social September 2, 1965 May Wilding, President, North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "A presentation 'The Quest' was written and produced by social science class leader Kathryn K. Price, chorister Esther C. Mathews, and Magazine representative Nellie C. Bate. The cast included: Gayle W. Farr, Rosaline Gold, Eliza Teeples, and LaDean R. Marshall. The dramatization related the experiences of a Relief Society president and an inactive sister. Sister Gold, who had portrayed the inactive sister, later bore her own testimony as to how she had joined the Church through activity in Relief Society. Beautiful organ music was played throughout the presentation by organist Sylvia H. Thompson. Sister Thompson and Marjorie Wood were in charge of the display, which featured a mannequin holding gold ribbons which extended to each of the seven small tables. '* 'Self-fulfillment Through Relief Society,' which was the theme of our opening social, will continue to be stressed by short talks and testimonies at leadership meetings throughout the year, as we work toward our goal: to bring the blessings of Relief Society into the lives of all the sisters in our stake." Lost River Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Patriotic Concert and Flower Show August 17, 1965 Front row, at right, in black dress: chorister Loretta Jensen; at Sister Jensen's right: Marilyn King, organist. Second row, left to right: Mary B. Davies, President; Leona Anderson, First Counselor; Mary W. Kotter, Second Counselor. Sister Davies reports that the Singing Mothers of Lost River Stake also sang at two sessions of stake conference in May 1965. Ricks College Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Officers at "Show and Share'"' Christmas Fair, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Deanne Moore, organist; Jessie P. Morrell, First Counselor; Lisle L. Andrus, President; Leta Skoy, Second Counselor; Elsie R. Lewis, Secretary. Back row, standing, left to right: Lasca Stucki, social science class leader; Eunice Williams, Magazine representative; Ruth Biddulph, literature class leader; Pamela Lehto, chorister; Lorna Tibbits, work meeting leader; Dorothy McIntyre; Evelyn Graham, theology class leader; Phyllis Wood, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Andrus reports that the officers and members of the newly organized Ricks College Stake are enthusiastic about Relief Society work. Their "Show and Share" Christmas Fair was a well-planned and successful event. The traditional Christmas colors red and green were carried out in the decorations. The "Christmas Rose" tree was covered with roses and red lights. Displays were presented by each of the wards, including toys, cookery, aprons, table, settings, gift wrapping, inexpensive gifts, and stories for Christmas. Posters made by the stake board portrayed the work done in each department of Relief Society. A program was presented twice during the afternoon, consisting of Christmas music by the Singing Sisters, a trio, and a reading. The refreshment tables were decorated with glass figurines, and a bowl of cranberry punch was placed at each end of the tables. Eight individual tables, serving four each, were covered with green net over a green cloth, and centered with a candle circled by roses. Each guest was presented with a booklet containing the program, recipes, and directions for making the articles displayed. 


 Argentine Mission Relief Society Seminar Caseros, Argentina, October 23, 1965 Left to right: Maria Abera, Education Counselor, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Nalida Turner, Secretary-Treasurer; Mafalda Guinaldo, Work Counselor; Herta Mellor, President, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Nadia Mirosnikov, Secretary-Treasurer, Central District; Nedra H. Strong, Supervisor, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Elena Mancini, President, LaPlata District; Angela Guiliani, President, Buenos Aires District; Estella Angelora, Education Counselor, Buenos Aires District; Maria Flores, Work Counselor, Buenos Aires District; Federico Wolgast, Councilman, LaPlata District; Carmen Cuneo, Secretary-Treasurer, Buenos Aires District. Sister Strong reports: ""The seminar was held for the purpose of presenting the program for the summer work meetings. The seminar was prepared by the mission Relief Society board and the district boards. Present were representatives of the twenty-three branches involved. Numerous representatives of the Priesthood were present to supervise and support. ''Many demonstrations were given. Dr. Augustin Minotti, Jr. Gave a lecture and demonstration on first aid and common illnesses; Mafalda Guinaldo outlined and demonstrated the latest methods of the art of dressmaking. Nancy Briscoe demonstrated the art of making paper flowers for bazaars, children's parties, Christmas, and other festive occasions. A demonstration was given on Japanese flower arrangement. Sister Martinez from Quilmes demonstrated the making of feather flowers. Sister Strong and Elder Kraig Dahl showed how to make rolls and marshmallows. All of the demonstrations were carefully recorded, and a printed manual was given to each sister present. "The same seminar was held the following weeks in Rosario and Mar del Plata, with the women of these areas participating. Each day the sisters here in Argentina are learning to love and appreciate the great organization of Relief Society more." Calgary Stake (Alberta, Canada) Bazaar November 6, 1965 Left to right: Nedra Leavitt; Barbara Walker, luncheon chairman; Gwen Haycock, Second Counselor; Joy Lee Matheny, advertising chairman; Naida Walton, President, Calgary Stake Relief Society; Rita Holt, luncheon committee member; Ruby Hornberger, First Counselor; Hallie Logan, convenor and pricing committee chairman; Bernice Nelson, director of Singing Mothers; Mary Platt, head of cashiers; Louella Payne, decorating; Janet Merrill, sales personnel; Glenna Fowler, displays; Marion Levant, bake table. Sister Walton reports: '""The stake center was a delightful setting for the bazaar, where eleven wards and two branches combined for their first stake bazaar. Decorations for this outstanding event featured a dropped ceiling in white, dotted with ice-blue snowflakes, with overhanging winter scenes of snow-crested Christmas trees, and snowmen and skaters on an artificial rink. A winter scene done in pastels by Marion Barker completely covered the largest wall of the cultural hall, to complete the breathtaking scene. "Over 3,000 bazaar articles were attractively displayed, and included such items as kitchen aprons, children's clothing, doll clothes, toys, pillows, sleepwear, Christmas novelties, knitted articles, Christmas puddings and mincemeat, Chinese food, and homemade chocolates. The bake table was well supported and was a main feature of the bazaar. A fifty-voice Singing Mothers chorus rendered two special selections during the afternoon. A delicious luncheon was served. Over 1900 people attended the bazaar; approximately 1200 of these were nonmember friends. During the afternoon the full-time missionaries showed the film 'Man's Search for Happiness.' "The final proceeds from the bazaar were tabulated on the basis of the number of articles made by each ward. Each item was tagged, showing the name of the ward and the price of the article, then, as each article was sold, the cashier removed the tag. This information was used in the distribution of the money to the wards." 230 BAS Sa TON ARS Alaskan-Canadian Mission, Cariboo District Singing Mothers Present Music for District Conference Fort St. James, British Columbia, Canada October 17, 1965 Patricia Conklin, the chorister, stands at far left in the front row; Julia Gwilliam, organist, and district Relief Society president, stands second row at far right. Derhoof, and Fort St.