[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 216 | Special Feature | Visit of Queen Kapiolani to the Relief Society Jane | Elizabeth Molen]
Visit of Queen Kapiolani to the Relief Society Laie, Oahu, Sandwich Islands July 6, 1878 Jane Elizabeth Molen Copy of a letter published in the Woman's Exponent, August 15,1878 Thinking a short sketch of a Royal visit to our isolated home might be of interest to some of the readers of the Exponent, I forward the following. Her Majesty Queen Kapiolani, arrived here just at the close of our morning services. Her design was to reach here in time for our meeting, but on account of the illness of one of the party she was detained. Her attendants consisted of her sister Pooloku, Col. Judd, and Miss Pitman, with a number of servants, all bearing some big title pertaining to the palace household, such as cup bearer, chambermaid, steward, etc. She was making a tour around the Island for pleasure, and in the interest of the Hui Hoola Lahui (Relief Society). We bade them welcome in an easy manner, leaving out, no doubt, many of the court titles usually applied to people holding such positions, which appeared to have the effect of making them feel at home. At one o'clock P. M., a messenger arrived to tell Her Majesty the people were assembled, ready to receive her and hear her instructions. We all walked to the meetinghouse which was filled to overflowing, anxiously waiting her arrival; as she entered, the. People arose to their feet, the 216 Laie, Oahu, Sandwich Islands July 6, 1878 Jane Elizabeth Molen Copy of a letter published in the Woman's Exponent, August 15,1878 choir singing a song of welcome composed for the occasion. The house was nicely decorated with evergreens, with appropriate mottoes on the walls, and a beautiful crown composed of ferns just over Her Majesty's seat. The meeting being opened, she arose and read her speech, which was short but to the point, urging the people to continue in the good work of administering to the afflicted and destitute; gave some good advice in regard to the management of the society, disbursements of means, etc. Col. Judd followed, spoke of the prosperity, union and contentment of the people here; thought much credit was due to the foreign elders; after which Elders Molen and Richards, occupied a few minutes each, in support of the Queen's instructions, eulogized her in her work of charity among the people. After returning to the house the natives were permitted to shake hands with Her Majesty and say "aloha.'' Many of the older ones who had not entirely forgotten their ancient habits of showing deference to their nobles, approached her on their knees, or with heads almost bowed to the ground; while the more enlightened ones only showed due respect. This over, we all (the Queen's party and members of the Mission) sat down to the tables and partook of a plain but hearty dinner. The Queen is a nice looking woman, very affable and kind, but not loquacious. Her sister Pooloku is more of a lively turn, appears to enjoy a good joke and quite as ready to take as give one. Miss Pitman, who has traveled considerably in_ the United States, is well informed and quite a talker; she visited Salt Lake City not long ago, and is full of praise and admiration of that place and the people. By previous invitation, they were the guests of Brother Kaleohano, where they repaired in the evening. They felt so much at home their stay was prolonged two days.
The natives flocked around them by the hundreds, and did all in their power to VISIT OF QUEEN KAPIOLANI make them comfortable. We rode up in the mountains with them, gathered ferns, and lunched under the boughs of the evergreen trees, by the side of the beautiful cool stream of water that sinks long before it reaches the parched fields below.... The Relief Society held their third Annual Festival meeting today, which was really a credit to our native sisters; they were all dressed in white and made a grand appearance in the procession. They seemed to be filled with the spirit of the gospel, and from their own earnings they feasted some two hundred persons, which is no small matter these hard times; they have done much towards administering to the poor and needy of this place.... Your sister, J. E.