[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 196 | Home | A Present for Grandma | Celia Luce]
P A Present lor Grandma Celia Luce @ When our daughter was about five, she and I worked out a present for her grandmother. She made several pictures, mostly of people, but some of animals, houses, and trees. I cut patterns from her pictures, and stenciled them onto a lunch cloth. Naturally I made myself one, too. Her grandmother and I have treasured them ever since. Later, I wrote to my nieces and had them send me some drawings their children had made. For Christmas I gave my sister-in-law a set of dish towels. Each dish towel had the drawing from one of her grandchildren painted on. Two of the children were almost too young to hold a crayon—this was the first. Drawing each had ever made. These were just scribbles in color, but they made interesting and precious designs on the dish towels. I never saw my sister-in-law more pleased over any gift. The stenciled cloth we made several years ago was a lot of work. The dish towels were easy. For the dish towels I used textile paints that come in tubes with a ball point on the end of the tube. They are especially good for reproducing the crayon drawings, too, for they make a mark like a crayon. I paid 50 cents a tube for the paints, but a tube contains enough paint for hundreds of uses. They are wonderful for decorating any household linens. In any textile painting, the first job is to wash the material to be painted. Most new cloth contains starchy filler. If that isn't washed out, part of the paint goes onto the starch, and the paint washes out with the starch, leaving a dull, lifeless pattern. I used two methods of transferring the design. For the older children's drawings I used a sheet of carbon paper and tracea the design onto the dish towel. For the babies' scribbles this was too complicated. I pinned the drawing under the cloth, then used a piece of glass with a light under it. Then I could see the design and draw it right on without tracing with carbon. The paints work like writing with a ball point pen. Use a scrap of old cloth to get the paint flowing right—just as you start a balky ball point pen on a scrap of paper. Then just go over the design. Push down on the tubes, but do not squeeze them very hard. Squeezing may build up pressure inside the tube that makes the paint ooze out and fill the cap after you have put it away. Embroidery hoops may be used to hold the material taut, but put the cloth in upside down from the usual way. The cloth must be below the hoops rather than above the hoops, for you must have a hard surface under the cloth to work on. Always use newspaper under the cloth as a little of the paint will come through onto the table otherwise. When the painting is finished, dampen a press cloth with vinegar and place over the design, then press with the iron. This makes the design more permanent. Use a rag for a press cloth as a little of the color comes off in this first pressing. These designs stay for a long time. They fade a little with repeated washings, but not greatly. 196 On e- é a 5 PRED Ser eRe ne Bee Me EL. N. Ie retest acco NOS RR BE RE I CIEE wet Ne Ne wot Bete TT I me wre —_ WRB a2.