[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 178 | Special Feature | Appropriate Music Materials Cleone | R. Eccles]
APPROPRIATE MUSIC MATERIALS Dr. Stanley Armstrong Hunter said that words have a far reach, and yet there are tremendous regions beyond. Music carries words to far places, where they can never go alone. Music gives life and soul to words. All great music has a great and lofty text. During an interview, Caruso, the world's greatest operatic tenor, was asked, "Where do you locate the source of expression in singing?'"' His answer was: "I find it in the words always. For unless I give my listeners what is in the text, what can I give them?" In building a repertoire, choose songs of such worth that they can be sung over and over again, and still present some challenge and joy to the singers. You will find a splendid listing of sacred and secular songs in "Music Leadership in the Relief Society," by Florence J. Madsen, graded Easy, Medium, and Difficult, in two and three part arrangements. Singing Mothers programs may be built around a subject chosen from the scriptures, or from the works of composers and poets. Correlating musical numbers may consist of solos, duets, organ, strings, etc., as well as the spoken word. You may find instrumentalists in your wards and stakes who are waiting for just such an opportunity to revive and use their talents. Frequent use should also be made of the hymns in the back of the hymn book that are arranged for women's voices. There are also program suggestions in Chapter 10 of this same little book of Sister Madsen's. To name a few: 


 Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns Stories of other Christian hymns Music as a Missionary Seasonal programs, such as Christmas, Easter, Spring, etc. I have heard Sister Florence Madsen say that one of the great benefits of Singing Mothers concerts is to have the husbands and the families of the singers present to see and hear what their wives and mothers have accomplished, and why it has been necessary for them to go to rehearsals. President Belle S. Spafford has said, "When we have a combination of beautiful music and beautiful women, willing to serve, who have a gift of song, a talent, and use it for the benefit of the Church, we have a creation that is truly worthwhile." For the congregational singing, every song in the hymn book is a good song in its place, but the lesson material may be greatly enhanced by choosing songs that support the objective of the lesson. The Family Home Evening is the ideal time and place to encourage and develop the talents in the family. Let each member have some part on the program. They will never have a more indulgent and sympathetic audience to encourage and coax along their talents. Tommy may falter when playing the piano, and Mary's squeaky violin may not enhance the accompaniment, but it is a wonderful learning process, and they are putting their music to practical use. I am reminded of the home orchestra of my childhood and the many happy eve- 180 nings we spent together as a family. There are songs suggested for - each, lesson in the Family Home Evening Manual, but the program should be flexible to accommodate the different age levels. Let the children suggest songs that they would like to sing. It may be a Primary song or one from the Recreational Song Book, or a familiar hymn. To me, the most important function of music on Family Home Evening is to have a happy time together on a spiritual level. Oliver Wendell Holmes said, "Purchase some kind of instrument for the home and see that its beneficent harmonies are often heard. Let music be as much a part of a day's routine as eating or reading or walking." Children who study musical instruments should often be reminded of the service they can give the Church as conductors and accompanists when they are qualified and ready. This training is also invaluable in the mission field. My grandson, who was a very difficult piano student at home, was very pleased to write to me while on his mission that he could play nearly. A hundred hymns from memory. Music has become a very important part of his life because he was able to see its practical application. I will close with the words of the great apostle Paul—"Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord" (Col. 3:16).