[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 191 | Special Feature | The White Sands of New Mexico | Claire Noall]
lowed at a more leisurely pace. Up the dunes I raced, weaving a pattern of footprints in cupping palms which permit no permanence. The white sands covered my sandals as 1 stood. The sands crept away like waves of water, leaving me almost without a footing. Prints dissolved under my path. Prints made by running children remained, linked for a moment only, then they vanished, even as the laughter of these young, barefooted visitors faded across the air. Children are particularly welcome at this Monument. Conservation here stands aside for recreation. Many people come—as many as 300,000 in a single season. I climbed a high slope, and every rippling wave increased in brightness according to its opposing shadow. Evening was at work. The gleam assumed the luster of mother-of-pearl. A few parallel lines, scratched on the gypsum bed at the foot of the dune, shone like mica. As the day's bright azure faded, I reached the cream-colored crest and looked into the pots of blue at my feet. Long shadows of low-keyed indigo, subdued by the non-reflecting light, gradually descended the full length of the immense oval bowl. I stood on the crest with my husband, hand in hand in the solitude of sundown, in the aloneness of April, and for me the dunes began to write a poem, a poem of accent and meter, of curving line and irregular sequence—a poem of silence, too, except for the distant calls of the children. Seconds passed. Length of line, foot, and stanza changed. We strolled down the slope to the channel, when all at once an unexpected golden light tinted every windward exposure. The alpenglow had touched each sunward crest, slope, and ripple. They shone pale as the fire of white sandalwood; then the magical veils of coral and crimson commenced to lower their hems. We turned a bend. A wee white pocket mouse caught the shimmer. It scurried away, making no more lasting impression in these shifting waves than the small bleached, earless white lizard can cut. Only these two species of animal have adapted to the white environment. Once upon a time the valley stretched between its two ranges of mountains level as a table. To the east, the Sacramentos are capped by 12,000 foot Sierra Blanca's snowbound peak. Westward, the San Andres range crests dark blue against a more remote horizon. The great sink provided no outlet for its drainage. In the distant mountains snow and rain still dissolve the gypsum. The run-off finds its way to reed-grown Lake Lucero in the southeastern corner of the Monument. When the moisture dries, it leaves behind exquisitely translucent elongated crystals. The wind, with busy fingers, tools these jewels into miniature spheres. An area of more than 275 square miles has succumbed to the display. The rare white grains move faster and pile deeper under the northeasterly winds than do the sands of any comparable area in the world's barrens. If the wind blows the sands against your car, don't worry; they'll mar neither paint nor glass; they'll not scratch your face; and though they may pelt your legs your hose will not fall apart. The grains are 192 somehow both soft and slightly heavy. They fly close to the floor, and still they shift and take shape. The dunes rise and elongate, drift and diminish, only to rise again. The Loop Drive is constantly cleared to keep it from being drifted over. The hard white road is marked by mileposts which one is asked - to respect. In the soft shoulders, the wheels of a car bog down, and, if they spin, the driver calls for help. To dig a tiny groove in the gypsum bed is to see how close to the hard surface the water level lies. A runnel forms, whose waters, being highly mineralized, support a wide variety of microscopic life; but they will not support you; they are not potable. You may picnic in the Monument provided you bring your own supplies. None are available at the Visitor Center; nor is there a restaurant. In a widely cleared area, however, among the dunes, tables are shaded by metal-slatted sails which, curving against the wind and reflecting the blue of both sky and sand, suggest a flotilla of ancient Norse ships. Food was forgotten in the gleam of alpenglow. Night was closing in. The beam of starlight soon would be tracing these ghostly crests. I asked myself what moonlight could not do for them. Again I felt the pulse of the dunes expand and decrease, rise and diminish. Again I heard the poem of silence, the runic song which sang of itself in the White Sands National Monument. For, lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come (Solomon 2:11, 12).