Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew -. Promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
ORDER NOW Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. 84111 Enclosed is a check/money order for the total cost of my purchase; residents of Utah will include 3%% tax. Residents of Calif. Who Please send me copies of OF order through the Deseret Book FOOD AND THOUGHT h Store at 777 South Main in a: a: our ep add ct ee tax se send me copies o ' ave an account..., bi SUGAR 'N SPICE $3.95 each me. MS none ccc ccccceececcccecececeececcecesercecsecsccesessrsrecnenssestessersescereececesereceese AAreSS «o. Oo. Oocccccccceccecccceececccccecececcecccccceccceececeeegensecececssesetesececeessesssrensseessseseseeee I anna co oeneas sens ecscesecseessecesscnesseee SSS ee Se March Relief Society Will you be ready when he is? Investigate this N E WV MISSION MOUWATOR PAIN Latter-day Saint families have been advised repeatedly to build a missionary fund for their children. Yet, despite good intentions — many of us save the "put'ntake" method — we put some in; take some out, and end up about where we started. Call your Beneficial Life man about this plan — soon, or mail the coupon below. Cee eeoeeeeeeeeeeereeerescesereeeresesereeeeeereseesreseseeeo®e BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. — Beneficial Life Building — Salt Lake City, Utah [] Yes, I'd like to know more about your new "Mission: Motivator" Plan. NAME Street or RED CIT'. STATE.. ZIP CODE Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Py ~ / The Beneficial Life Mission Motivator Plan makes your savings systematic and sure. It gives you these advantages: e Reminds you to save regularly. © Guarantees that the money will be available when the call comes — if the plan is fulfilled. E Has paid-up options in case the plan can't be continued. © Provides flexibility to suit your income and needs. E If Dad should not live to complete the plan we pav premium automatically. @ Pays Mission funds either in monthly: allotment check