[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 217 | Poem | Returning March Elizabeth | Cottam Walker]
RETURNING MARCH Elizabeth Cottam Walker The waning winter winds that bring the scent Of all forgotten springs in an icy crest, Awaken in me haunting moods that, blent With memories, stir me from winter rest. Now on the live hearth coals I place a log Of applewood I garnered for this day, Watch flame through gray smoke, billowing like fog, Sun-splashed and gleaming as it fades away. My heart grows eager in the apple smoke As in its pungency I seem to smell Remembered perfume of the petaled cloak Of blossoms—prelude to the apple-swell. Though waning winter winds with ice are sowed, My heart goes Apriling along the road. 217 Winnifred C. Jardine @ List-making has always been an important activity of my life. For me it clarifies thinking and streamlines actions: which jobs to do first; how to organize errands for greatest efficiency; whom and what to include on my Christmas gift list; a plan for preparing a company dinner; how to spend my money., As a result of these many years of list-making, I've developed a priority list for my life. This has never before been put down on paper by me and yet has been referred to so often that it has become crystal clear in my mind. I advert to it especially when making decisions—and even more important, in sticking with those decisions.: This priority list has only four items, involving four specific values in the order of their importance to me: 1. Spiritual 2. Intellectual 3. Cultural 4. Material There can be no question about the number one priority, for we are told most emphatically in the Sermon on the Mount: "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." This is the single greatest guide 218 any of us can have for making choices in our lives. Being human, we all stray from this guideline too often, and each time must learn anew that it is truly the iron rod of life. The gaining of knowledge as the number two priority has to be near the top for a people who believe that the glory of God is intelligence and that a man can be saved no faster than he gains knowledge. '"'Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life,"' we are told in Doctrine & Covenants 130:18-19, "it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." However, the gaining of knowledge must go hand-in-hand with seeking first the kingdom of God, in order that our knowledge be converted to intelligence and wisdom. For some, the gaining of knowledge has taken top priority even over the matter of spiritual growth, and, for them, their enlightenment becomes distorted. Jacob wrote of such a thing when he said (2 Nephi 9:28-29): "... O the vainness, and the frailties, and the foolishness of men! When they are learned they think they are wise, and they hearken not unto the counsel of God, for they set it aside, supposing they know of themselves, wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness and it profiteth them not. And they shall perish. But to be learned is good if they hearken unto the counsels of God." The wise increase of knowledge is more than a matter of intellect; it is also an attitude. When accompanied by humility and a love of God, it becomes a great instrument for good upon the earth, and a joy, we are told, in the life hereafter.