HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN COMPLIANCE with requests made by sev-
eral ladies, Dr. Ellen B. Eerguson will open a
medical class for ladies on the 1st of October.
The course will inclnde instructions in Anato-
my, Physiology, Obstetrics, Puerperal Diseases
and Diseases of Children. Instruction will
also be given in the medicinal properties of
herbs and plants, and their uses in domestic
practice, thus enabling those who are at a dis-
tance from proper medical aid to meet the ear-
liest symptoms of disease intelligently. Those
applying immediately for tickets can pay a
portion of the fees in grain, dried fruit, or pro-
duce. For terms apply to Dr. E. B. Ferguson,
First East Street, or to the Editor of the EXPO-
NENT.
	THE BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.—Through
the politeness of Mrs. M. J. Tanner, we have
received the Circular of the B. Y. Academy at
Provo, Utah Co. The Academical year con
sists of four terms of ten weeks each. The
first term commenced August 26, 1878. The
Academical Department consists of four
courses:
	1st. Commercial Course Bookkeeping. The-
oretical and Practical Commercial Arithmetic
and Penmanship.
	2d. Polytechnic Course—Algebra, Geometry,
Surveying and Drafting.
	3d. Scientific Course—Chemistry, Physics,
Geology and Natural Philosophy, alternating
as follows: Mineralogy In the 1st Term, Botany
2d Term, Zoology 3d Term, Physiology 4th
Term.
	4th. Language Course—Rhetoric, Phono-
graphy, Latin and German.
	In connection with this there is a complete
Normal Course, theoretical and practical,
which extends over a period of two Academical
years. Practical teachers may attend for a
much shorter time, special provisions being
made for their benefit. There is also a Musical
Department in operation. The B. Y. Academy
is in charge of Prof. Karl G. Maeser, with com-
petent assistants in different departments.
	ELDERS JUNIUS F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy
and John Craner returned Tuesday, Aug. 27th,
from a short Missionary tour in the interest of
the Y. M. M. I. Associations. These brethren
have been absent two months, and have visited
and held meetings in Box Elder Cache, Bear
Lake, Rich, Morgan, Summit and Wasatch
Counties. They have effected Stake organiza-
tions of the Y. M. M. I. A. in these Counties,
have held sixty meetings, in the interests of the
young people’s Associations, have advocated
monthly joint sessions of the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Y. M. M. I. A. They have advised the As-


sociations everywhere to secure libraries and to
make these libraries the repositories of Church
works, introducing a systematic programme for
mental work which aims to popularize the
study of the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Church
History—these forming a solid, religious basis;
afterwards introducing Histories, Books of
Travel, Biography, and such a class of reading
as tends to cultivate a taste for a high order of
literature. Everywhere these young brethren
have been received gladly, and the most hos-
pitable welcome extended to them.  Their aim
has been to suggest the best methods for spirit-
ual educational work, and awaken a growing
interest on the subject of improvement in the
hearts of the young people, by introducing
regular methods of disciplining the mind and
heart. Many of the meetings they held have
been very numerously attended, and no doubt
much good seed has been sown that will event-
ually bear rich fruit.
	GRADED SCHOOL—On Monday, Sept. 2d, a
thoroughly Graded School will be opened in
the Social Hall, under the supervision of Miss
Ida Ione Cook, whose superior qualifications
as an efficient teacher are well known.  Special
attention is to be given to deportment, obedi-
ence and honesty as well as to study. The
Grades are, Primary, $3 00; Intermediate, $4.00;
Grammar, $5.00.  The Grammar Grade will be
in charge of Miss May M. Wells, who has had
a good practical experience in teaching, and is
thoroughly qualified in all the various branches
taught in this department.  Miss Anna Lynch,
teacher of the Intermediate Grade, has been
very successful in securing good behavior and
atten tion from her pupils heretofore, and is
well qualified for the position.  Miss Louie
Snelgrove, in charge of the Primary Grade,
stands pre-eminent among teachers in that
line.  Miss Mary E. Cook, the Principal and
Founder of this school, has taken great pains
to qualify her teachers, and has insisted upon
thorough work.  She is absent now, having
gone recently to St. George, to aid in that vi-
cinity in establishing and getting into work-
ing order a system of Graded Schools. Miss
Cook, having had much experience in teach-
ing and preparing others, is eminently well
qualified for this department of educational
work, and has already accomplished much
towards furthering the interests of education
in this Territory.  Her unselfish devotion to
the cause of education, and untiring persever-
ance under the most unpropitious circum-
stances, deserve the highest encomium of
praise from those who have received the bene-
fits of her arduous labors.


