	﻿EQUAL PAY FOR EQUAL WORK.

	Various methods have been taken in differ-
ent parts of the United States, to secure the
same remuneration for labor to women as is
given to men for the same class of work. On
this subject more has perhaps been said in fa-
vor of women teachers than any other depart-
ment of labor, possibly because there are more
women engaged as teachers in proportion to
men than any other work. Statistics are
brought forward to substantiate the value of
the services of men and women in dollars and
cents, as estimated by their employers and
those who have charge of educational bureaus.
The increase in the proportion of women
teachers within the last thirty years has been
exceedingly great, especially in New England,
and the price of their work has risen, too,
though perhaps it has not reached a just pro-
portion to the labor as yet. In  most cases there
is a vast difference in the wages of men and
those of women employed as teachers. “But in
some States, as in Iowa, the rule is becoming
general to pay men and women the same sala-
ry for the same grade of work. In the city of
St. Louis no distinction is made between the
sexes in fixing the teachers’ salaries; and the
California Legislature of 1873 enacted that the
female teachers in the public schools should in
all cases receive the same compensation as men
for like services. A few of the Southern States,
which employ more men than women, pay the
same salary for the same work to both sexes;
and Idaho, Nevada and Arizona report the
same custom.”
	Some of the most noted men of the time, well
acquainted with educational labor in all its va-
rious departments have borne this testimony
in favor of women teachers, believing them to
be better adapted to the work than men. Hor-
ace Mann considered the growing increase of
women teachers a great reform, on account of
their superior adaptability to the work. The
prices paid to teachers of both sexes now is
very much higher than formerly, and the
qualifications necessary to secure situations are
very much greater.
	In the primitive days of the country, and in
rural districts especially not so very long ago,
and even yet in some remote localities, teach-
ers did not necessarily possess a fountain of
knowledge on any subject—in fact the govern-
ment was considered the chief requisite, and
“Can she make the children mind?” was more
often asked than any other question, in refer-
ence to a teacher. Ruling with the rod was
THE RULE, and wo to the refractory urchin, as
many of the grandfathers and grandmothers
of to-day can testify.
	The custom of boarding round, which was
some years since very common, is now almost
abolished, though Harper's Monthly Magazine

[Column 2]
for September says that 'it is still in vogue in
many places, and that in one district in Penn-
sylvania all the teachers receive $15 a month
and board in this manner. Who but the vic-
tim himself (or herself) can describe the mise-
ries of boarding round in rambling country
villages—of living for a week or month on tea
and pie, and then only exchanging the fare for
pie and tea; of sleeping under leaky roofs, up-
on pillows which the rains and snows of heav-
en bedow; of shivering in breakfast rooms
where, if a drop of water fell upon the table-
cloth, though the stove be in close proximity it
is instantly frozen? And yet the physical dis-
comforts are often the least of the homeless
teacher’s trials.”
	There is much hard labor and much real pleas-
ure connected with teaching, and in our opin-
ion a great deal depends upon fitness and adap-
tability to the work. It is said by some it is
woman’s special mission to teach and we agree
in this assertion, but all women are not good
teachers, nor do all succeed well who under-
take it. Because persons possess a good store
of information on the subjects to be taught, it
does not follow that they can impart it to oth-
ers understandingly, but teaching like other
avocations not only requires preparation and
training, but one must have a love for it either
natural or cultivated; great patience and the
peculiar tact of being comprehensive in im-
parting instruction.
	When a person having tact, talent, education
and a desire to impart knowledge to others,
enters the profession as a teacher it is but just,
such a person should receive suitable remuner-
ation for services rendered. The mere fact of
being a woman should not deprive one of the
worth of their labor. It seems simply absurd
to make all sorts of worn-out pretexts against
woman’s wages being equal to man’s in such
classes of work as she can perform equally well
and many times even better.
	The very fact that women continue in the
occupation of teaching, longer than men,
should militate in favor of their receiving at
least as large a salary as men do. Slowly wo-
man’s cause is advancing, and the good exam-
ple set in St. Louis, Iowa and some particular
sections of the country, will be emulated by
others, and by thus securing justice to women-
teachers it will give encouragement to continue
in the labor to those perhaps who might oth-
erwise grow weary in the work, for however
enthusiastic one may be—one must eat and
drink, and provide for the wants of nature,
and often single women employed as teachers
have aged or invalid relatives dependent upon
them, or orphaned children of those beloved.
Teaching is hard work, and should be well-
paid, and teachers do a great share of the work
of molding and making society. The mothers
form the groundwork perhaps, the teacher
builds on and weaves in, and although people
think little of the teachers Individual princi-
ples or religion, yet this should be one of the
first considerations, for teachers have much to
do in forming the mind and character of the
pupil.
	The writer previously referred to in this ar-
ticle says in speaking of women continuing in
the employment of teaching. “Those who
contend that teaching with women is apt to
be a temporary resort more than with men,
have only to look around them to become con-
vinced of their mistake. Almost any New
Englander can count among his personal ac-
quaintances women who have taught from
fifteen to thirty years, and who will probably
die in the harness. One of the Boston teach-
ers—a single woman—died recently after teach-
ing in one of the primary schools for forty

[Column 3]
years.” Col. Higginson’s report when one of
the school committee in Rhode Island gave
the average time of service in teaching of men
and women—female teachers, eight—seventeen
years; male teachers, three—eight years.
	It seems to us as if every clear-headed intel-
ligent person should at once recognize the fact
that equal services equally rendered should of
themselves demand equal remuneration in
whatever department or class of labor. And
in these days when so much is said about jus-
tice, it does seem exceedingly strange that
there should be any quibbling on the subject.
There are many other classes of work beside
school-teaching that want equalizing and the
world will come to it by and by, and the fact
of sex will not stand in the way of equal pay
for equal work. There is a good time coming
and this will be one of the issues of that good
time.


