LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS.
	July 12, 1878.
To—
	Dear Sister:—Your kind and very wel-
come letter of the 20th of May reached
me about June 12th. It gave me much

[Column 2]
pleasure to receive a letter from one of my
sisters who has labored so long for the same
cause that I am now laboring; one who
knows the joys and sorrows of those who
are called to leave home and friends and
take up their abode on the Sandwich Is-
lands.
	I do not feel as though I could tell you
anything about my feelings—the anxieties
for the folks at home and the lonely hours
that I have spent thinking about them—
for it would be old to you; you have gone
through it yourself and know all about it.
But you can sympathize with me, can't 
you?
	Although I am very lonesome at times,
and feel as though it would be a great plea-
sure to be able to step in and see mother
and the rest of the dear ones once in a
while, still I am a great deal more con-
tented here than I expected I would be
when I left them.
	Last Friday I received the sad news of
the death of my dear little niece, Lucy. It
made me feel more homesick than I have
felt since I have been here; she was such a
fine, healthy child when we left home, I
did not think of her going to her mother
so soon. I had just been talking to Sister
Molen about her that day, and saying what
a comfort she would be to her father when
she got larger. The Lord giveth and the 
Lord taketh away, and we must learn to be
reconciled to whatever we have to pass
through.
	We were called to part with one of our
native friends last Friday, Kaohenauna, one
of the men who was called to go to Utah at
the last Conference. He was at work on
Thursday, went home and ate a couple of
"Sand-spiders," I expect you will know
what they are, and was taken with cramp
and vomiting. He died at 7 o'clock, only
being sick one day and night. His funeral
was held at the schoolhouse, at 2 o'clock on
Sunday, and his body was followed to the
grave by over two hundred people. I ex-
pect you were well acquainted with him,
for he has been in the Church a great many
years. He was the father of the youngest
of the two native women who live in the 
19th Ward. He had saved about one hun-
dred dollars towards taking himself, wife
and child to Utah, and expected to go with
the first missionaries that were called home.
He was very anxious to get there and have
his wife sealed to him before he died, for
he has not been well for a long time; he
has been troubled with a very bad cough.
His wife and child are intending to go and
have the work done for him The boy is
about fourteen years old; he has been liv-
ing with us ever since we went to keeping
house on the Island.
	It was not at all hard for me to accustom
myself to the food and manner of living
here, though I would much prefer the way
we have at home. All the white associates
I have are the missionaries from home. I
have made the acquaintance of one lady
since we came here, but she is only half
white. She is a very nice woman, and 
very aristocratic in her manners and habits.
Mr. Hassenger, her husband, who is a
white man, has been keeping the ranche of
a Mr. Campbell, at Habuku, about seven
miles north of here, but I understand they
are about to leave the place and go back to
Honolulu, where they resided before they
came to Habuku. They sent a native over
to say they would call here and spend Wed-
nesday night. They have three very nice
daughters, the eldest about sixteen years.
	We have not had any one call here since
I came, excepting the Queen and party,
consisting of the Queen, her sister, and

[Column 3]
Miss Mary Pitman, a half white, and Mr.
Charles Judd, besides six servants. They
took one meal at the plantation house, and
spent the rest of the time at Lucy's, the
girl who used to live with you. The Queen
invited us down there to take supper with
her; we all went, and spent a very pleasant
evening. I had quite a talk with Miss
Pitman; she said she was in Salt Lake
City last winter, and that she took dinner
with you, and had a very pleasant time.
They stopped at this place two days, and
seemed very much pleased with the way
the people are getting along.
	My husband has been gone to the Island
of Kanai between two and three weeks,
and I am here alone, with the exception of
my baby, who is a great comfort to me in
my lonely hours. Remember me kindly to
the family and inquiring friends. Bro.
Molen got a letter from Bro. —— last
Monday. If you see any of my folks, give
my love to them and tell them that we are
all well. I have finished my sheet, so I
will now close. Hoping this will find your-
self and family all enjoying good health, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,
