NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION. 

	We have gathered, from the "National
Citizen and Ballot Box," items concerning
the Convention held in Rochester on Fri-
day, July 19, in the Unitarian Church. In
our issue of Aug. 15 we published notes of
the Business Meeting held the day previous.
At ten o'clock the delegates assembled; the
pulpit had been removed, making a larger
platform for the speakers. Rochester, now
called the "City of Flowers," had contrib-
uted of its beauty to the adornment of the
church, in bouquets, in twining wreaths
running through the low wire lattice, about
the platform, and in hanging clusters of
vines from chandeliers."
	"There was a pleasant interchange of
greetings from women whose homes are far


apart, but who are friends and co-workers
in this great reform." We would be glad
to republish more of the speeches made
and letters read than our small space will
admit of, but will try to give to our readers
extracts of importance from some of the
best speeches and letters.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton occupied
the chair, and made the opening address.
	"We are here to celebrate the third de-
cade of woman's struggle in this country
for liberty.
	Thirty years have passed since many of
us now present met in this same church to
discuss the true position of woman as a
citizen of a republic. The reports of our
first conventions show that those who inau-
gurated this movement understood the sig-
nificance of the term "citizens."
	At the very start we claimed full equality
with man. Our meetings were hastily
called and somewhat crudely conducted;
but we intuitively recognized the fact that
we were defrauded of our natural rights,
conceded in the National Constitution.
* * * * * *
	Look at the department of education,
the doors of many colleges and universi-
ties thrown wide open to women, girls con-
tending for, yea, and winning prizes from
their brothers.
	In the working world they are rapidly
filling places and climbing heights unknown
to them before, realizing, in fact, the
dreams, the hopes, the prophecies of the
inspired women of bygone centuries.
	In many departments of learning, woman
stands the peer of man, and when by high-
er education and profitable labor she be-
comes self-reliant and independent, then
she must and will be free.
	The moment an individual, or a class, is
strong enough to stand alone, bondage is
impossible.
* * * * *
	Some of our opponents attack us with
the same old weapons in use thirty years
ago; though ever and anon, as new phases
of the question have arisen, new weapons
have come into use. When a number of
women in this city, with Susan B. Anthony
at their head, went to the polls and voted,
Henry R. Selden, in his constitutional ar-
guments in their defence before the United
States, forged a good supply of Minnie guns
and Columbiads, which have done us good
service.
* * * * * *
	Much has been accomplished for the civil
rights of woman. The laws and customs
touching her property, education and labor
have been essentially modified and im-
proved, but her political rights are still ig-
nored.
* * * * * *
	I would remind the gentlemen present
that the enfranchisement of woman in-
volves your interests as deeply as our own.
We are so indissolubly bound together that
whatever degrades woman lowers the status
of man also. Our growth is your develop-
ment, our hope your inspiration, our long-
ings your triumph; our success your vic-
tory."


