BY HANNAH T. KING.

	When we see all thinking, far-seeing,
prophetic minds impressed with some
mighty principle, crude and chaotic though
it may be, and is, for there is ever the
germ, the nucleus to all things great and
small--but when we see such minds shaken
up--the "moving of the waters"--then look
for the Angel of Truth to descend to re-
store, to purify, to elevate, to invigorate,
and cause all such to pass from "under the
rod" and emerge into their native element,
from which they have been excluded, pro-
bably for wise and just reasons; we must
believe this, because God is a God of love
and justice, and all effects spring from
causes governed and controled by the grand
Potentate of the universe.  God is the Fa-
ther of all spirits, both His sons and His
daughters; can any thinking, reasonable
mind believe that He cares less for His
daughters than His sons?  Common sense
and the common feelings natural to every
parent negative such an idea.  Look into
the mechanism of woman as she came from
the hand of her Creator--study well both
mental and physical organism, study the
exquisite sensitiveness of both.  Her soul
--yes, she loves much; this shows that
God has bestowed on her a larger portion of
His Spirit.  What will she not bear and en-
dure for those she loves--her husband and
her children most especially?  Witness her
fortitude under trial; often in such has she
been indeed a help-meet unto man, and he
gratefully owns it; for there are very few
men who will not readily give to woman
the praise due her, if he has been the re-
cipient of her helping life! I maintain
that men can and do appreciate a good and
faithful wife; such words do not mean a
soft, obedient simpleton, who has not judg-
ment enough to decide what is right and 
what is wrong, but by a good wife I mean
a true friend, who studies his interests, his
welfare, his happiness, and even in the
small (?) affairs of every day life studies
what will please him, what will comfort
him, and shuns all that would annoy him;
if she requires something of him that she
thinks he will not grant, watch for the mo-
ment when his mind is unloaded of its
cares and he feels gentle and conciliative,
and I feel sure she will get her wish, if it
is within his reach.  I could elaborate this
subject, but enough is said--"a hint to the
wise is sufficient."
Young wife, do not think this too much;
it is, I assure you, only a hint. Would you
not act precisely the same to your brother,
or your sister, or friend, were you living
with either?  Surely you would.  There is
no subservience in doing right, such is
merely "the rudiments of an angel."
This is the age when the minds of the
masse, as I said in the beginning of this
article, when the minds of all nations seem
impressed with the desire to elevate wo-
man to a sphere from which they realize
she has declined, and to which all just and
candid minds desire to help to restore her.
There have been women in all ages who
have stood forth on the stage of life as the
Prima Donna of the age, showing the being
God made, and which men and the world
have unmade! and she has also helped to
unmake herself!  The last is the most
dreadful of all; to misrepresent ones self is
a fearful thing.  Alas! woman has done it,
and is still doing it, though many are awak-
ening to the great fact that she is a daugh-
ter of God, and equally responsible with
man for her course in life, where she is not
coerced.
	The woman question is the subject of the
day and age in which we live; I feel it will
be a work of time, as all great revolutions
usually are, yet I feel sure it is especially
woman's era, and that a change must come,
when woman can indeed be a helpmeet for
man.  Man is the brother of woman, her
co-partner; she is his sister, and they must
be co-operatives in the grand business of
saving life.  May each become more en-
lightened and walk understandingly, not
in plain ignorance of their mutual position,
of their inseparable "duetts."  I feel that
the generality of women need instruction
on that subject as much as men.  I have
seldom, if ever, seen a man who refused to
a woman the place she had worked herself
up to by her own ability, even if in some
measure she supplanted himself, if she was
really capable o[-] filling it, and he knew it;
he naturally loves a woman who is indeed
and in truth a helpmeet to him.  How
many a good man has been spoilt, ruined
often for the lack of just such a woman!
and many an inferior man has been raised
up to a platform from which he never after
descended, by the love and admiration he
has felt for some woman, who has come
like an angel of light upon his path, and
has walked side by side with him through
his after life, finding that "her ways were
ways of pleasantness, and all her paths were
peace."
	Let woman study herself, cultivate her-
self, her character, disposition temperament
and temper, holding her own, maintaining
her native dignity, knowing and asserting
her place, by simply taking the chair that
belongs to her, and then quietly and un-
sleepingly retaining possession with full
capability; and I assure you such a woman
will have all the queenship she craves, be
it what it may, for she will be irresistible,
and her own mind and her own character
will be to her a kingdom, over which she
will love to reign, and rejoice therein.
S. L. City, Aug. 24, 1878.


