	A MOTHER'S TRIBUTE.

'Tis fourteen years ago today since heaven sent to me
A winsome, black-eyed baby-girl, as sweet as she could be;
And when I took her in my arms, her cherub face to
	view,
I felt a strange, ecstatic joy, that thrilled me through
    and through.
I watched my darling as she grew, so artless, pure and
	mild,
And sometimes sighed to think that she could not remain
	a child;
But now that fourteen sunny years have fled since she
	was born,
She seems as much a babe to me as on that natal morn.
And thus, I think, 'twill ever be—as on the seasons roll,
The babe will still remain a babe, while tarries here my
	soul;
Yet, should she live, the time must come when she will
	surely see
A woman in her looking-glass, whate'er my thoughts
	may be.
And when that time does come, I know her mirror will
	reveal
The face of one whose character is bright as polished
	steel;
She'll be as full of love and faith and pure as she is now,
And virtue's self will sit enthroned upon my darling's
	brow.
'Tis true she'll find life's pathway strewn with thorns as
	well as flowers,
And she, when sorely pierced, may sigh for childhood's
	happy hours;
But whether she be filled with foy, or 'neath the chast'-
	ning rod,
She'll have the same dislike for wrong, the same sweet
	trust in god.
My darling, oh my darling! As time speeds on his way,
You'll find another love than mine to comfort you some
	day—
A deep and thrilling sentiment. which you will think di-
	vine,
A love that may be mere intense, but not more true than
	mine.
'Tis right that you should make new friends as through
	the world you glide,
I cannot hope to keep you, love, forever at my side;
'Tis right that you should form new ties—'tis nature's
	great behest;
Nor would; [clip thy wings, sweet dove, to keep thee in my
	nest.
But this I know—whate'er your lot, wherever you may
	rove,
You[-]l still possess, in all its depth, a parent's holy love;
Whether beneath the parent wing, or on life's troubled
	sea,
God bless my bonnie, black-eyed girl—wherever she may
	be.
	A. L. B.


[Column 1]
