	WEBER STAKE OF ZION.

	This Conference was held in the Taber-
nacle in Ogden City, Thursday and Friday,
Aug. 15 and 16; the first two day's meet-
ing the sisters have ever held, which makes
it quite an event in the history of the wo-
men of Utah. Mrs. Jane S. Richards, with
her Counselors, Mrs. H. C. Brown and Mrs.
Sarah A. Herrick, presided.  Conference
opened at 10 a.m. on Thursday.  On the
stand with the officers of Relief Society
Stake were Pres. D. H. Peery, of Weber
Stake of Zion, and some Bishops of Ogden,
Bishop Hammond, of Huntsville, and re-
presentative ladies, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs.
B. W. Smith, Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs. E. Davis,
of Salt Lake City.  The Conference opened
with singing and prayer, in the usual man-
ner; then the Secretary, Mrs. A. M. Frods-
ham, read the minutes of the last Quar-
terly meeting, Financial Report of Ogden
Relief Society, and the reports of the va-
rious branches of that Stake.  The congre-
gation was large, and sisters from all the
settlements in the county were present.
The reports were creditable, representing
the condition of each branch spiritually,
industrially and in benevolent and charita-
ble pursuits.  Pres. Richards made a few
congratulatory remarks, and Miss E. R.
Snow then addressed the meeting in her
usual spiritual and interesting manner.
Pres. Peery then spoke appreciatively of
the labors of the sisters, in benevolence, in
storing grain, in doing business, and all
the associations and pursuits in which they
are called to labor.  Elder Shirtliff, of
Harrisville, spoke upon faith and the ordi-
nances for the sick, storing grain and other
subjects.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Convened at 2 o'clock.  After opening
services Mrs. M. I. Horne, Pres. of Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society, addressed the
meeting. Her remarks were mostly upon
woman's duties and responsibilities, the
work of Relief Societies, the storing of
grain, the training of children, the fran-
chise, the inheritance of daughters; re-
ferred to the days of Moses, when the Lord
spoke concerning the daughters of Zeloph-
iad.  Miss E. R. Snow then delivered an
eloquent address upon the disciplining and
educating of children, their spiritual culti-
vation, evil influences and their effect;
made reference to the origin of a plan to
inaugurate a system of Primary Associa-
tions; alluded to the faith, gifts and bless-
ings manifested among the children in the
the early days of the Church, and the lack
of them at the present time.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith thought it was time
for parents to awaken to the exigencies of
the hour, for we wanted our little boys to
become Bishops and great men, and our
little girls companions and helpmeets for
them.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young exhorted the sisters
to live their religion, honor God and His
laws, and live faithfully every principle of
the Gospel; if it was plural marriage, honor
it, hold it sacred, and the Holy Ghost would
bless and strengthen all who desired to
carry out the revelations of God.  She said
we have been resting here thirty years, is it
any compliment to us to send our children
away to be educated?  Should we go to the
nations of the earth to gather in scattered
Israel, and let our children grow up in infi-
delity? She believed much of the unbelief

[Column 2]
could be traced to the fireside, and the ne-
glect of parents to fulfill duties that were
sacred.  Bishop Hammond, of Huntsville,
commended the sisters for their earnest-
ness and diligence; felt the Relief Socie-
ties were a great help to the Bishops. Pres.
Richards made some brief remarks and in-
vited the little children and parents to
meet at the Tabernacle at half past eight
on the following morning, when Miss E. R.
Snow and other sisters would speak to them
on the subject of a Primary Association.
Thus closed the first day of the Conference.
	&HILDREN'S MEETING.
	At half past eight o'clock on Friday
morning the Tabernacle was well filled with
parents and children, anxiously expectant,
and when Miss Snow rose to address them
they were all attention.  The Spirit of the
Lord rested upon the speakers, and all felt
it to be a memorable occasion.  The Secre-
tary recorded the names of nearly three
hundred children who desired to become
members of a Primary Association.
	Conference convened at 10 o'clock on Fri-
day.  There were present on the stand, be-
sides the President of the Stake and Coun-
selor Middleton, officers of Relief Society,
and ladies who were present the previous
day, Elder D. M. Stuart and Prof. Monch,
of Ogden, Junius F. Wells and Milton H.
Hardy, who are traveling together in the
interest of Y. M. M. I. A., and Mrs. S.
M. Kimball, Mrs. S. S. Young, Mrs. S. M.
Heywood and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of Salt
Lake City. The first business was the re-
ports of the Y. L. M. I. A., read by the
Secretary, Mrs. R. Monch, who acquitted
herself excellently well in that capacity.
The reports represented the Society in good
condition, spiritually and financially.  Mrs.
E. B. Wells addressed the meeting, dwell-
ing upon practical development, and the
higher cultivation of mental powers and
spiritual attributes, the mission of woman,
her influence in home and society, and the
necessity of becoming self-sustaining.  Mrs.
S. M. Kimball said in the past the sisters, in
their organizations, had been mostly en-
gaged in works of charity and benevolence;
now the sphere was enlarged, and one of
the subjects we should inform ourselves
upon was social science, for the women of
Utah had a responsibility resting upon
them in this direction.  Mrs. S. M. Hey-
wood spoke upon the training of children,
the work now in contemplation among
them, the great field for woman's labor,
and the need of wisdom and diligence.
Bishop F. A. Brown said he always liked
to hear women talk; said the Saints had
many things taught to them that the world
would not receive; in our weakness we had
received them, and in seeking to carry
them out we sometimes made crooked
paths; we are all in the school and trying
to do better.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Meeting convened at the usual hour, and
opened with singing and prayer.  Mrs. H.
A. Snow addressed the meeting on woman's
organizations generally, the good results,
the efforts made to establish home-indus-
tries in Box Elder Co., of the increasing
responsibilities of woman and the need of
grace and humility.  Msss E. R. Snow then
spoke upon the principles of the Gospel,
the duties of home-work, the listlessness of
the Saints, the mission given to us in the
spirit world, warned the sisters not to be
governed by their feelings, but by princi-
ple. Made some excellent remarks upon
Celestial marriage, told that large congre-
gation that the principle of plural marriage

[Column 3]
was taught her by Joseph Smith the Proph-
et; related part of a conversation between
herself and the wife of the American Min-
ister to Greece; the lady acknowledged
that if she had such testimony as Miss
Snow assured her she had, she should for-
get herself in her desire to fulfill her mis-
sion.  Miss Snow closed by saying the or-
ganization of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber
Stake would be deferred for the present.
Mrs. E. Davis made a few remarks, and re-
cited a poem upon "Plural Marriage," com-
posed many years since by John Jaques.
Counselor C. Middleton said the majority
ruled; and as women were greatly in the
majority he was acting under orders in
speaking. Spoke upon the responsibility
of mothers, the home education, the storing
of grain, and many other things.  Bishop
McQuarrie said he remembered once talk-
ing to a congregation of sisters when it
was too stormy for the brethren to turn out.
Spoke of the grain and granaries, and
urged the brethren to assist the sisters in
this matter.  Elder David M. Stuart said
the sisters were a power in Utah and it was
being felt here and elsewhere; said the
Bishops in Ogden were going to help the
sisters in building granaries.  He felt that
the sisters were assisting socially and reli-
giously to establish the government of God.
President Richards announced the adjourn-
ment of the Conference for three months,
and the meeting closed with singing and
prayer.
	These are but a very few of the many
precious things spoken by the sisters and
brethren. It is impossible to publish all,
there is so much good instruction given,
but this being the first two-days' meeting
we felt it would be a precedent for other
Stakes, and we know there is much work
to be done and comparatively few earnest
and efficient workers.
	Financial report of all the branches of
Relief Society of Weber Stake of Zion,
from April 30th to Aug. 14th, 1878:
Receipts, in Cash and Merchandise.$199 30
Disbursed to those needing assis-
	tance.......................................... 122 23
To P. E. Fund..................................... 7  90
To Temple Fund............................... 67  40
To Missionary Fund.........................  2  00
To Welsh Fund.................................    18 00
	Total					 216 63
Property on hand............................... $1301 67
Cash on hand......................................    71 04
Wheat reported..................................      478 1/4 bu.
Amount of cocoons raised not known.
	A. M. FRODSHAM,
	Recording Sec'y R. S. for Weber Co.


