R. S. REPORTS.

	Reports of the General Retrenchment
Meeting, Saturday, Aug. 17; Counselor
Zina D. Young presiding. The President,
Mrs. M. I. Horne, was absent, traveling
with Miss Eliza R. Snow through the set-
tlements of Morgan Co., and holding meet-
ings with the various organizations of sis-
ters.  The meeting was addressed by
Counselors Zina D. Young, B. W. Smith,
P. Woodruff and E. Howard, also by Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. Pixton, and Dr. Wm.
Smith.  One interesting feature of the 
meeting was the reading of the minutes of 
the Juvenile Association, by Miss Alice
Merrill.  This Association is composed of
little girls, all under eleven years of age.
The minutes were full of the simplicity
and sweetness which characterizes child-
hood and reminded one forcibly of the Sa-
vior's words "Except ye become as little
children, ye cannot enter into the kingdom
of heaven."  The sisters who spoke dwelt
much upon the necessity of improvement,
the training of children, the benefit of fire-
side teaching, the storing of grain, and
home industries.  Mrs. Young spoke of
her recent visit with Sister E. R. Snow to
Provo Valley, the peaceful influence among
the sisters wherever they went; of being
in Logan at the Conference, when they de-
posited in a stone box the Church records,
in a corner pillar designed for the purpose,
and the sister's conference at Ogden.  Mrs.
Howard gave a brief account of her visit
to Randolph; said the Relief Society there
had a good house of their own to meet in,
wth plain, substantial furniture.  They
raised no grain there, but were going to
sell some stock owned by the Society to
buy wheat to store up.  Mrs. Woodruff, in
her remarks, said the low price of wheat
now, reminded her very forcibly of the fam-
ine in Egypt—they had seven years of 
plenty previous to the seven years of fam-
ine.  Spoke of one poor place in the coun-
try where the sisters saved Sunday eggs
for the Temple, and in there months it
amounted to forty-one dollars.
	Many good ideas are suggested in these
meetings for the benefit of all, and much
practical as well as spiritual instruction is
imparted.


