CONTINUED.
	We prospered in all our efforts to accu-
mulate wealth, so much so, that among
our friends it came to be remarked that
nothing of my husband's ever got lost on
the lake, and no product of his exportation
was ever low in the market, always ready
sales and fair prices.  We had neither of
us ever made any profession of religion,
but, contrary to my early education, I was
naturally religious, and I expressed to my
husband a wish that we should unite our-
selves with one of the churches, after ex-
amining into their principles and deciding
for ourselves.  Accordingly, we united our-
selves with the Campbellites, who were
then making many converts, and whose
principles seemed most in accordance with
the Scriptures.  We continued in that
church, which was to us the nearest pat-
tern to our Savior's teaching, until Parley
P. Pratt and another Elder preached the
Everlasting Gospel in Kirtland.
	Sidney Rigdon was then a great Camp-
bellite preacher.  He received the Gospel
at the house of Isaac Morley, who, was the
[---] to embrace the truth in that Vicinity.

[Column 2]
When I heard that these Elders were
preaching without money, or remuneration
of any kind, and more especially when I
knew Bro. Morley had received them into
his house and had united himself to their
faith, and that they were opposed to all
priestcraft, I felt an earnest desire to hear
their principles proclaimed, and to judge
for myself; accordingly, I went immediately
to hear, and as soon as I heard the Gospel
as the Elders preached it, I knew it to be
the voice of the Good Shepherd. and went
home rejoicing, to tell my husband the
news; he was convinced that I was entirely
sincere, and wished to hear them, that he
might also receive with me a full assurance;
he asked me if I would wait for him to be-
come convinced, that we might together
enter the fold through the waters of bap-
tism; but  strong "impression bore witness
in my heart, that now was the accepted
time, and the day of salvation." I had then
a babe in arms and two older children liv-
ing, and two I had laid away until the Res-
urrection.  My convictions were so strong,
that much as I desired my husband to par-
ticipate in these blessings, I felt impressed
that I must not wait, and I was baptized
immediately.  My husband, however, ex-
amined the doctrine and was himself bap-
tized within a few days.  This was in Nov.,
1830.  Soon after this many false spirits
began to manifest themselves, and many
were deceived by these misrepresentations;
the power of these spirits was terrible;
some persons under their influence imag-
ined  they could read the word of the Lord
out of their own hands in letters of gold;
it was a terrible time of temptation.
	In December of the same year, Joseph
Smith, with his wife, Emma, and a servant
girl, came to Kirtland in a sleigh; they
drove up in front of my husband's store;
Joseph jumped out and went in; he reached
his hand across the counter to my husband,
and called him by name.  My husband, not
thinking it was any one in whom he was
interested, spoke, saying: "I could not call
you by name as you have me."  He an-
swered, "I am Joseph the Prophet; you
have prayed me here, now what do you
want of me?"  My husband brought them
directly to our own house; we were more
than glad to welcome them and share with
them all the comforts and blessings we en-
joyed.  I remarked to my husband that
this was the fulfillment of the vision we
had seen of a cloud as of glory resting upon
our house.  And during the time they re-
sided with us, and under our roof, were
many of the revelations given which are
recorded in the Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants.
	Just previous to the Gospel being
preached in Kirtland I had made all need-
ful preparations for a visit to my parents in
Connecticut; but after receiving the Gos-
pel I abandoned the idea, determing to
devote my life, my energies and all that I
possessed, towards sustaining and building
up the Kingdom of God upon the earth.
My whole heart was in the great work of
the last dispensation, and I took no thought
of my own individual comfort and ease.
Joseph and Emma were very dear to me,
and with my own hands I ministered to
them, feeling it a privilege and an honor
to do so.
	Aunt Sarah, who had always lived with
me, and felt a sort of supervision of every-
thing pertaining to my welfare and happi-
ness, and who had been a true and faithful
friend to us, under all circumstances, was
very much disconcerted by the turn things
had taken; she looked upon Joseph like all
other preachers, and did not like to see us

[Column 3]
made the dupes of priestcraft, which was
her version of all religious doctrine and
opinions; and acting upon her own theory
and responsibility, when my husband was
absent with the Prophet Joseph upon busi-
ness, and I was in delicate health, and un-
able to attend to any domestic duties, she
took the opportunity to rid herself and us
of the family, considering it not only an
incumbrance, but an entirely unnecessary
inconvenience.  I would have shared the
last morsel with either of them, and was
grieved beyond comparison when I found
what she had done; but she had a good
motive in it, and really thought she was
consulting the best interests of those who
were far dearer to her than her own life;
her devotion and her power of self-sacrifice
towards us individually were unlimited,
but her efforts, like those of many other
sincere and ardent friends, were misdi-
rected.
	(To be continued.)


