R. S. REPORTS.
HEBER CITY, WASATCH CO.,
July 30, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
We were favored with having our beloved
sisters, Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Zina
D. Young on the stand, for the first time in
Heber. It was what we had long hoped
for.  President Margaret Muir, of the Re-
lief Society, with her Counselors, and Pres.
Anna Duke, of the Y. L. A., with her
Counselors, were also present on the stand.
After singing and prayer, President Muir
made a few opening remarks, expressing
her pleasure at the sisters' visit.
Miss Snow arose and said she was glad
to see so many of the brethren taking so
great an interest with the sisters of the
Relief Society.  She did not know how it
was with the sisters here, but if we were
united we could do much good.  The
Prophet Joseph Smith said that all the sis-
ters should be members of the Relief So-
ciety, and in Nauvoo chastity was a test of
fellowship. Let us learn refinement, honor
our positions, and go to meeting to get
spiritual food.  Let mothers pay their tith-
ing honorably, teaching their children to
observe these things, for it is mothers that
give tone to society.  She felt that she had
no spare time but what should be devoted
to the interest of Zion; she had many times
worked so hard before meeting time that
she had to pray to the Lord to give her
strength to get to meeting.  She was thank-
ful she had never spoken against Celestial
Marriage.  Some sisters had asked her "How
long shall we suffer these trials?" she an-
swered, until they are no longer a trial,
until we have got the victory over them.
Spoke of home-industries; dared not call
for a vote, lest we should be ashamed. She
told us to exercise faith, that the time may
come when we can raise mulberry trees
here.  The Prophet Joseph said the curse
would not be taken off the earth all at
once.  She said, speak not evil one of an-
other, for they that feared the Lord spoke
often one to another, and a book of remem-
brance was kept.  She did not wait for the
Lord to force her when she was told to do
anything. Made some further remarks in
regard to storing up wheat and planting
out beans.
Mrs. Zina D. Young next addressed the
meeting. She said:  "My brethren and
sisters, if I did not know this to be the
work of God I would not be on this stand;
but in the strength of the Lord we can do
what is required of us.  A gentleman said
to President Joseph Smith, 'How do you
control this people?'  He said he told them
what to do and they governed themselves.
The key to the baptism for the dead has
been restored, and the faster we work for
the dead the sooner they will be made
comfortable.  Jesus, in his mission, when
hungry and faint, had to pluck the ears of
corn by the way."  Referred to paying
tithing, for it will be by observing the laws
that we can be saved. * * *  She
said we needed the Holy Ghost at all times
and in all our business.  Spoke of evil in-
fluences that have crept among the people;
let mothers have a strict care of their
daughters, for they had better die than de-
file their bodies, for it will take a long time
to have the stain removed.  She said that
many who now seem to be in the shade
and pass unnoticed, will shine bright in
the kingdom of God.  The Lord has plant-
ed within us the germ of intelligence.
Never speak against the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, never mind who laughs at
it, but keep humble, we have got good
rulers.  When your little girls are eight
years old let them join the Young Ladies'
Association.  If the sisters would take the
EXPONENT, those who are able, and those
who are not club together and take it, it
would be a good help to them.  It would
be well if some of the ladies of Heber City
would go and learn medicine and surgery--
learn to set bones, rather than have to send
to a doctor who is not of our faith.  A doc-
tor was sent for to set a bone for a little
girl, and he said she would be a long time
before she would walk; but the sisters of
the Relief Society washed and anointed
her, and she recovered fast.
Pressdent Hatch endorsed what the sis-
ters had said, and was glad they had come
to visit us, He also would like some of
the ladies of Heber City to study the pro-
fession of medicine and surgery.
In the evening Miss E. R. Snow and
Mrs. Z. D. Young addressed the young la-
dies and gentlemen of Heber City.
Relief Society Quarterly report, from
May 2d, 1878, to August 3, 1878:
Donations received..................$4 05
Disbursed to poor..................... 3 15
Balance in Treasury................. 4 00
Wheat in store for Zion.............30 bu
ELLEN LEE, Secretary.
MANTI, Aug. 11, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Report of the meeting held in this city
June 18th, by Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Z. D.
Young and party.  We feel that we were
very greatly blessed by their brief sojourn
in our midst, and we hope and trust that
Providence will so order events that their
visit, with its attendant blessings and en-
joyments, may be repeated at no distant
day.  The subjoined is a copy of the min-
utes of that most interesting occasion.
The Society met by special appointment.
Opening prayer by President Petersen.
Choir sang "Come thou glorious day of
promise," also "When all thy mercies, O
my God."  The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted, after
which Miss Eliza R. Snow addressed the
meeting; said if the sisters wished to be
edified, they must lift their hearts in prayer
to God.  She spoke of the organization of
Relief Societies in the days of Joseph the
Prophet, said that Chastity was then a test
of qualification for membership.   *  *
Exhorted the sisters one and all to come
forward and become members of the Re-
lief Society, lest the few who were per-
forming all the labor should also receive all
the reward.  She felt thankful that she had
been permitted to maintain her integrity
and was still numbered with the faithful.
Spoke of the necessity of working out our
own salvation, if we ever expect to attain
it, and of the folly of wasting our talents
in seeking after the things of this life, and
thereby imperiling our soul's salvation.
The speaker then dwelt at some length
on the duties of Relief Societies, said that
it required much determination and wis-
dom to relieve  the wants of the poor in a
proper manner.  She thought it was the
duty of the Society to furnish suitable labor
for those who were able to work, and should
furnish gratuitous aid judiciously, and
guard against being imposed upon.  She
spoke very forcibly and understandingly
upon the duties of mothers to their chil-
dren, and also upon the necessity of meet-
ing together often, as she thought it assist-
ed the sisters greatly in overcoming the
trials of their life.  Said the sisters who
could never find time to go to meeting
would certainly fail to make her home
pleasant and happy.  Contrasted her with
the sister who takes pleasure in attending
the meetings of the Society, and neglects
none of the duties pertaining to life here-
after.  She dwelt at some length on the
subject of home-manufacture, and in the
course of her remarks requested all the la-
dies present who wore home-made hats to
rise to their feet, but was surprised at the
smallness of the number; she advised the
young ladies to make their hats as beauti-
ful as possible, but by all means to let their
adorning be the work of their own hands;
Said it was folly for us to sustain Babylon,
when we were able to sustain ourselves, if
we would only take steps in the right di-
rection.  Said we should bear all our trials
in humility, and should by no means do
wrong because wrong is done to us, and
that we should turn a deaf ear to false sym-
pathizers and strive to overcome our evil
natures.
Mrs. Zina D. Young expressed her plea-
sure at meeting with the sisters, and of the
good things to which we had already list-
ened.  She spoke of the beauties of Celes-
tial Marriage and of the ordinance of bap-
tism for the dead as a part of our religion.
Spoke of our duties to ourselves and to each
other, said if we each acted well our part
every day it was all that would be required
of us.
Exhorted the sisters to provide suitable
reading for their children, and made special
mention of the EXPONENT and "Juvenile
Instructor."  She then exhibited some
specimens of home-made silk, and exhorted
the sisters to increase their diligence in its
manufacture, that they might make their
apparel beautiful without any aid from
Babylon.
	Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde, of Spring City, ex-
pressed her pleasure at meeting with the 
sisters, and bore her testimony to the truth
of what had been said.
Mrs. Amelia Goldsborough, of Nephi,
preferred to listen rather than speak, but
felt willing to respond when called upon.
Mrs. Petersen and Mrs. Williams, of Eph-
raim, bore a faithful testimony to the truth,
and hoped the sisters would redouble their
diligence in home manufacture.
Pres. Maiben felt thankful to the visiting
sisters for their kindly words of good cheer,
and hoped we should all go on our way re-
joicing, in consequence of the many good
words that had been spoken unto us.
Brother Folsom said he felt highly hon-
ored by having the privilege of meeting
with the sisters. Spoke of the goodness
of God towards His people, if they were
only willing to receive His instructions.
He hoped the sisters would influence their
husbands to renewed diligence in working
on the Temple.
Mrs. Rebecca Wareham announced a
joint meeting in the evening for the Young
Ladies' and Young Men's M. I. A., and
heartily endorsed what had been said by
those who had spoken, especially that
which relates to home-manufacture.  Sang
"Let Zion in her beauty rise."  Benedic-
tion by Pres't. Maiben.
