VISIT TO RELIEF SOCIETIES.

	Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Mrs. E. Davis returned Thursday eve-
ning from the Northern and Eastern settle-
ments, where they have been visiting the
sisters' organizations, holding meetings, etc.
These sisters were received everywhere
joyously, and cordially welcomed, every
hospitality and courtesy extended them to
facilitate the interests in which they were
laboring. The people came out in crowds
to greet them welcome, and to bid them
farewell on leaving in the different towns.
They were hungry for the spiritual instruc-
tion these sisters were able to impart to
them. The sisters organized Young La-
dies' Mutual Improvement Associations in
three districts; assisted the Bishop at Hen-
neferville in re-organizing a Relief Society,
also assisted in organizing a Relief Society
in Echo City. The sisters in their meet-
ings advised the Societies everywhere to
maintain a spirit of unity, to co operate to-
gether in home-industries and all good
works; to become self-sustaining as fast as
possible; and those who were aliens to be-
come citizens, by taking out naturalization
paper. Instructed them on the subject of
the franchise, the benefits resulting from
it, and urged them to avail themselves of
the privilege allowed women in this Terri-
tory, in voting, and to seek to understand
the subject of government.
	These sisters have been absent nearly a 
month, except Mrs. Horne, who joined
them in Ogden at the Relief Society Con-
ference, and has been traveling with them
two weeks. They have held twenty-nine
meetings, sometimes three in one day.
They visited Mendon, Hyrum, Wellsville,
Paradise, Brigham City, Ogden, Morgan,
Richville, Milton, Littleton, Croyden, East
and West Porterville, North and South
Morgan, Echo City, Coalville, and Henne-
ferville.
	A tour like this for a lady of Miss Snow's
age is rather wonderful, and there are few
women in the world who would think they
could endure the fatigue of traveling as she
does at her time of life. The party have all
enjoyed excellent health during their absence
from home, although much of the journey
from place to place had to be performed in
lumber wagons. We expect to publish a
fuller account of their visit and labors in
our next issue.


WE are haunted by an ideal life, and it
is because we have within us the beginning
and the possibility of it. --Phillips Brooks.


