	NESS COLLEGE.

	Mrs. Sara A. Spencer, who has endeared her-
self to the Mormon people by her defense of
the rights of Mormon women in the National
Capitol, is Vice-Principal of the Spencerian
Business College,Washington, D, C. Prof. H.
C. Spencer is Principal.  This Institution be-
gins its Scholastic Year the first Monday in
September.  The College Course is arranged to
be pursued in two departments—The Practical
English Depa[-]tment and The Advanced Busi-
ness Department. "There are also Incidental
Lectures upon Health, Temperance, Virtue,
Economy, Thrift, Enterprise, General Deport-
ment."  In addition to the regular day train-
ing and instruction there are also evening ses-
sions.  "The design of the Institution is to
prepare those who attend to [-]arn for themselves
a home and a livelihood."  The circular con-
tains a picture of the interior of the Main
College Hall and the College Bank; also a like-
ness of the Professor and his distinguished
wife.  The Twelfth Graduating Class celebrat-
ed their annual public exercises at Lincoln
Hall the present year, with salutations, essays,
and valedictories; and diplomas and certificates
were conferred.
	Mrs. Spencer, previous to awarding the la-
dies their diplomas and certificates, made a
brief address, from which we quote the follow-
ing paragraph:
	"Let a woman, weak, friendless, poor, de-
spondent, only put her foot down metaphori-
cally and actually, and take a position of health,
strength, self-reliance and self-respect, and see
how the ever-abundant life of the universe
flows in.  She is inspired with confidence in
herself, and the world with confidence in her,
and the chances are ten to one she will either
accomplish what she undertakes, or prepare
herself for something better.  * * *
Women who have money and leisure are the
last to prepare for the inevitable day of want
and suffering."
	The design of this college is to furnish prac-
tical preparation for the business transactions
growing out of the great variety of individual
enterprises.


EMIL HOEDEL, the young man who tried
to assassinate Emperor William, was be-
headed at Berlin recently.  He was but
twenty-one years of age.  He asked for
wine and drank to the Commune and the
Social Democracy.
	We have been requested by Mrs. Mary
E. Holt of Hoytsville to correct two errors
which occurred in the Hoytsville Report,
published in our issue of July 15.  The
word treasury was changed to tannery,
and Mrs. Holt's name was published Hoyt.
	THIRTEEN LADIES received the decora-
tion of the Red Cross, recently established
by the Emperor of Russia in honor of ser-
vices given to the sick and wounded in the
Russian army.—Ex.


[Column 1]
