October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts,
The Framers of the Constitution and 'Their Work Dr. G. Homer Durham Vice-President, University of Utah GEORGE WASHINGTON O build a strong house, adeT quate building materials, intelligent workmen, and a sound plan are required. If any of the three is missing, the structure suffers. In producing a frame of government for a political system, the problem is similar but infinitely more complicated and difficult. Whereas the achievements of architecture and construction engineering are virtually numberless, the net produce of statecraft over six thousand years of civilization is numbered and relatively small, perhaps two or Page 646 three hundred "specimens." The great Roman state had an existence for two millenniums—from about 750 B. C. Until the final expiration of the Eastern Empire at Constantinople in 1453 A. D. Queen Elizabeth II can look back to Alfred and a millennium of subtle growth for the British state and its marvelous commonwealth system. The Roman and British states were produced less by conscious design, however, than they were painfully evolved. Each has contributed its great legal system to the world— the civil law of Rome, and the common law of England, each as vital and alive today as centuries ago. In rather interesting contrast, the Constitution of the United States reflects conscious design. Gladstone's tribute is well known. However, it must not be forgotten that the "building materials" of all previous systems, including Persia, Greece, Rome, and Europe, were available. As Samuel B. Pettengill wrote, "Our Constitution was 'far brought from out the storied past.'"' The main mechanical features and principles of the Constitution— written law, federalism, separation of powers modified by a check-andbalance system, republicanism— were at least 2,000 years old as political "specimens" although not extensively used nor brought into harmonious relation in one system. It is wonderful that the framers wise-