the Salt Lake Temple, April 6, 1893, with a prayer of humble supplication: "... We regard with intense and indescribable feelings the completion of this sacred house. Deign to accept this the fourth temple which Thy covenant children have been assisted by Thee in erecting in these mountains. In past ages Thou didst inspire... The prophets, to speak of the time in the latter days when the mountain of the Lord's house should be established in the tops of the mountains, and exalted above the hills." In 1919, the first temple to be erected outside the boundaries of the United States was dedicated at Laie on the island of Oahu, Hawaii —in the beautiful palm lands of the Pacific. President Grant, in offering the prayer of dedication, asked a blessing upon "the natives of EDITORIAL this land, that all the great and glorious promises made concerning the descendants of Lehi might be fulfilled in them." The temple at Cardston, Alberta, (dedicated in 1923 by President Heber J. Grant), stands in chaste simplicity upon the plain against a western backdrop of the snow-clad summits of the Canadian Rockies. Built upon the soil of a Commonwealth nation, this temple has been a source of comfort and fulfillment to the British people of North America, and to all who "partake of the spirit of peace and of the sweet and heavenly influence." So the same spirit of rejoicing and of restoration has characterized all the temples in their dedication and in the ordinances performed within their walls. The temple at Mesa (1927), magnificent in ts green gardens in the midst of the Arizona desert, received its dedication from President Heber J. Grant, wherein he spoke of the "pioneers of this land... Their courage and indomitable purpose, and their lofty ideals." Many thousands have thronged to the majestic temple (dedicated in 1945 by President George Albert Smith) on the banks of the wide Snake River, at Idaho Falls, to perform the temporal and eternal ordinances, in this the latest temple to be completed. It is of sacred import to members of the Church that the first temples were built through material poverty and spiritual grandeur; all of them have been constructed through sacrifice and industry and faith; all of them are loved and revered by the 671 saints who pray for "the endless life, which administers in time and eternity... A correct knowledge of all laws, rites and ordinances...." Much may be learned from a study of the humble, yet eloquent, dedicatory prayers pronounced upon the temples. Each prayer has explained the relationship between heaven and earth—between our former and our later habitation and the