Work Nleeting— Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Spending the Clothing Dollar Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, January 12, 1954) HE average American family spends about fifteen per cent of its annual income for clothing. It is second or third in cost among family expenditures. The greater part of it is spent by women. Their buying skill will, therefore, greatly affect the kind and quantity of clothes the family has and the degree of enjoyment that is derived from their use. In the days of our grandparents, every homemaker was familiar with the type of materials available and their performance. Today, the situation is quite different. The multiplicity of fabrics, weaves, fibers, and the "dos" and "don'ts" in handling materials present a complex problem to even the most highly skilled shoppers. This complex situation warrants serious consideration of ways in which the clothing share of the family income can most profitably be used in the interest of all family members. In no other division of family expenditure is long-time planning more essential. Plan Before You Buy Minimize the buying of non-essentials and an overtaxing of the current budget by making a longtime plan of clothing needs. In periodic family councils, have each family member, mother and father included, make a list of "must haves" and "would like to haves" or "wishes." Careful planning can often show the way to make wishes come true. A clothing buying plan will help you anticipate most of your needs and avoid snap judgments. Before deciding what you are going to buy, check over the clothes you have. What is the condition of them? Can they be made wearable with repair or alteration, or remodeled for one of the children? What colors, types, and quality of materials and specific kinds of weaiing apparel are needed to complete your wardrobe? In your planning you will likely be confronted with the decision as to whether to buy yard goods, for certain pieces of wearing apparel, or ready-made garments. Definite decision will perhaps be determined only after sources of supply and costs in both departments are studied. Home sewing can be a real dollar stretcher for anyone who has the skill, time, and physical capacity, satisfactorily to make needed LESSON DEPARTMENT garments, especially in children's clothing. Be a Wise Shopper Well-thought-out plans are essential to successful shopping, but preplanning is only part of the clothing buyer's responsibility. The value-wise buyer avoids the busiest shopping hours and never goes shopping when she does not feel well. She is never misled by so-called "bargains," for she knows that a bargain is a bargain only if: 1, The article is something she really needs. | 2. The price is better than normal. 3. She will be able to use it with satisfaction. 4. It will not be too hard or costly, in time or money to keep in good condition. The wise homemaker buys clothes that fit in with those she already has on hand. If money is particularly scarce she sticks to a "kin" color for the wardrobe of each member of her family. This is what is generally considered to be the "best" color or colors for each member. Around it, she builds the entire wardrobe, working new garments into the color scheme for the best effect. In this way she never has misfits. Labels are important to her. She favors those materials and readymade garments that carry labels which give in clear unquestionable terms: 1. The kind of fiber that 'is used 2. Probable shrinkage 3. Color fastness to various causes of fading Resistance to wrinkling Best type of care Cleaning method recommended. Yn 697 She disregards labels that only give half-truths and misleading statements, such as "preshrunk," "fast color," and "super shrunk," for, unless these terms are elaborated on, they have no value. Guessing or exaggeration by an overenthusiastic sales person can be disregarded when actual facts are given on the label. A wise buyer would not think of buying a ready-made garment without first checking the workmanship. Some of the things she checks are: 1. Seams. Unless they are at least onehalf inch wide, and finished, if the fabric ravels easily, the garment will not give satisfactory wear. 2. Grain line. Garments cut off-grain will soon sag and pull out of shape. 3. Fabric pattern. If it is striped, checked, or plaid, she wants all pieces to be well matched. 4. Trim. Will it stand cleaning and wear along with the garment? Does it cheapen or add to the appearance of the garment? Has it been used to cover up inferior workmanship or poor quality material? 5: Belt. Will it stand cleaning and wear for the life of the garment? 6. Style. Will it still be good next year, and the year after that? Simplicity is the key to good taste. Consumers Will Get Only What They Demand Not until individual consumers see the need for informative labeling, standardized sizes, and high quality workmanship, and demand them, will methods of merchandising be improved. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way does the proper care of clothing help in spending the clothing dollar? 2. Of what advantage are labels on merchandise?