[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: EDITOR EXPONENT: | Author: Unknown]

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	This mission has fixed in my mind a con-
clusion which to your readers may be both
new and novel. I allude directly to the
immense amount of good the Orthodox
ladies of Utah could do abroad with their
husbands or father's, in allaying the deep-
seated prejudice there is against our—WILL
BE—most popular institution, viz., "Celes-
tial Marriage." Throughout this country
the people have been treated with periodi-
cal doses of "pen dente lite," "Tell it all,"
"Fifteen years among the Mormons," and
numerous other trashy, lying, sensational
effusions, gotten up by designing men for
money-making purposes. They have not
seen or heard a "Mormon" Elder for a great
many years in this, and no doubt most other
counties of the State, and I am sure that a
hopeful, thorough Elder, with the presence
of a faithful, devoted wife, or daughter,
would accomplish as much or more good
than two Elders traveling together. I feel
pretty certain that the feeling of confidence
in the ability and integrity of the ladies of
Utah is rapidly obtaining in Zion, hence the
confident appeals to them to treasure up
wheat, nurse home industries, such as the
manufacture and sale of home products, and
the vast amount of good they are doing
through the Relief Societies. That God
may speed them success is my humble
prayer. I would suggest in this connection
that the Elders had better look to their
"laurels," or they may lose the credit of
being Saviors on Mount Zion. A popular
writer referring to a universal prejudice

[COLUMN 2]

says: "Such has been the crushing effect of
public sentiment that women almost feel
like apologizing for being on the earth at
all." I witnessed a striking illustration of
the greater susceptibility of women over
men in religious matters a few evenings
ago, in Strasburg, in this County, while at-
tending a distracted Methodist meeting.
Out of the goodly number that knelt at
the "anxious seat" not a single man was
present, and yet there were numbers in theroom that might have gone up to that man-
ner of chaff and husks with profit to them-
selves and families.
	I need not inform you that everybody
and his neighbor is anxious to learn all
about the "peculiar institution," and that
questions on that subject are always first in
order. But I will tell you that I have had
but little trouble in removing much of that
prejudice at all times when a fair opportu-
nity is given.

	I expect Bro. O. F. Whitney to join me
here in a day or two; will try and retain
him with me, as I much need his help.
	That the Lord will always bless your ef-
forts in disseminating the truth is the
prayer of your
	Brother in the Gospel,
