HYRUM GIBBS SMITH Hyrum Gibbs Smith By George Albert Smith, Jr. HE Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed be the name of the Lord." These words of philosophical truth and comfort have found utterance in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints more often than usual during the past few months, occasioned by the calling home of Church leaders. The Presiding Patriarch of the Church, Hyrum Gibbs Smith, was indeed given to the Church, and as a very young man, by the lineage of his descent and by the appropriateness of his own life, which was ever motivated by the prophetic traits of a great soul. And now he has been taken away, not full of years, though able to look back upon an earth life full of active service and abounding in deeds of goodness and blessing to all mankind. He was born July 8, 1879, at South Jordan in Salt Lake County, the son of Hyrum Fisher Smith and Annie Maria Gibbs, the great grandson of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, one of the two martyrs. He was one of nine children whose ancestry bequeathed to them the blessings of faith, of testimony and of prophetic vision, which qualities in his especial case enabled him to serve his Church and people in the capacity of a prophetic seer and revelator. The formative period of his life was spent in the wholesome influences of a delightful home and in the out-of-doors. The year after his birth his family moved to Idaho, into the Snake River valley where they resided for a time. They next settled in Portage, Box Elder County, where the father engaged in farming and horse raising. When young Hyrum was just seven, the residence "was again changed, the family this time making a home in Hoytsville, Summit County. Here he grew to manhood, assisting with the duties of the farm and home, at the same time attending the public schools, filling positions of responsibility in the Church and varying his activities by hunting, riding and learning the charm and mysteries of the out-of-doors. He subsequently entered the Brigham Young University at Provo, which school he attended until graduation. His scholarship was very high there and he also made a good record as an athlete, being a member of the school track and baseball teams. 'On August 17, 1904, he married Martha Gee of Provo, who has been a remarkable companion for him and an inspirational influence in his life and in forming the lives of their splendid children, of which their home has been blessed with eight, three sons and five daughters. After a period of school teaching. He matriculated into the College of Dentistry of the University of Southern California, which he attended until 1911. He was graduated in June of that year with high honors, was awarded a gold medal for excellence in operative technique and served his class as valedictorian. The practice of his chosen profession was highly successful but was terminated by his selection as successor of his grandfather, John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. This was in 1912 when he was thirty-three years of age. 152 This high calling found him well schooled and experienced in Church work, for he had actively performed the duties of a Latter-day Saint all his life and had held many positions of trust and leadership. He served as Superintendent of Religion Classes and of Sunday Schools in Summit County. Before going to Los Angeles to attend the University there, both he and his wife were set apart 'as missionaries and performed valuable service in that field. Outstanding was his work as Superintendent of the Los Angeles Sunday Schools and later as President of the Los Angeles Branch. For the past nineteen years he has diligently and faithfully discharged the duties of his office. He has pronounced thousands of blessings upon the heads of his fellow Church members, thus pointing to them the way of peace and salvation. In addition to these blessed personal ministrations he has functioned with the other General Authorities of the Church. In visiting the Stakes of Zion, always counseling wisely and encouraging the Saints to enable the fulfilment of their blessings and promises by keeping the commandments of God. Asa member of the Young Men's General Board he performed distinguished service in that organization. This active life of righteousness could do no other than endear him to those whom he contacted both in and out of the Church. A splendid compliment was paid him in 1928 by his Alma Mater, the University of Southern California when he attended the home-coming exercises and was asked as the sole representative of his class to sit with the faculty in recognition of his excellent under-graduate scholarship, his ecclesiastical attainments and_ his ascendency to the position he so RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE deservedly held as Presiding Patriarch of his Church. Hyrum G. Smith's appointment was to be the father of the Church, and so to be, his disposition and native endowments most fittingly qualified him. He was a lover of his fellowmen. He loved peace, simplicity, orderliness. His was a finely sensitive nature, responsive to the needs of those about him and ever alertly reaching out into the infinite and bringing back those treasures of prophetic comfort and assurance to the gladdening of the lives of those who were the grateful recipients of his ministry. He was not the aggressive, argumentative type although he was firm in support of his convictions. His sympathy for the misled transgressor was abundant, but for sin itself he had no tolerance. This faculty developed in him a directness of thought and speech. He talked to people but rarely about them. The confidence of another he never betrayed. This fidelity to friendship and personal trust was only equalled by his loyalty to his Church and devotion to the principles which it promulgates.
It is not surprising that such a man qualified to be Patriarch of his people should also be eminently successful in fathering his own immediate family. He laid the foundation stone of a happy home admirably well when he chose for his wife a young woman of personal charm, unusual intelligence and possessing that vital faith in God which has induced her to an unselfish support of her husband in his high calling and which has been caught up into the lives of the children she bore him. These two, so happily wedded, have, under the judicious and affectionate guidance of the father reared their family in a remarkable way. Orderly dispatch of their domestic affairs is ever their watchword. Family prayers are faithfully observed and obedience to parental advice is a highly developed trait in this family. The parents have never ceased to be lovers and that warm, wholesome affection has kindled the whole family, than which a happier, more loyal or more faithful could nowhere be found.
Holidays have been home days for this family. Hyrum G. Smith had the foresight to desire the immediate companionship of his loved ones and provided that it should not be secondary to other associations. He enjoyed working about to beautify his home and garden that they might form sanctuaries where the blessed influences of the better life might be fostered and imbibed. As a lover of these valleys and peaks which gave him his birthplace and home he rejoiced in their beauties, and as opportunity afforded he visited the streams and remoter glens to enjoy fishing or hunting, in both of which he was signally proficient, and to absorb enjoyment and inspiration from God's handiwork.
His calling required of him a particularly fine degree of faith and vision. His endowments of character and personality enabled him to meet these unusually high standards to the complete satisfaction of his associates and to the blessing of the Church for which he lived and to which he gave his full measure of devotion. In his life were no indications that he harbored the thought that being born of such illustrious ancestry gave him any privileges for absolution. On the other hand he regarded his heritage as a special responsibility, by virtue of which he should strive the more diligently toward that perfection of life exemplified by the Master in whose service he was.
Hyrum G. Smith did not leave to his family or people any great legacy of material accumulation, a possession of which too oft is a hindrance to spiritual growth. That which he did leave is of infinitely greater worth—a testimony that God lives and has revealed His purposes,—a beautiful life which vitalized that testimony—a family full of faith, which is a tribute to his patriarchal nature—and the blessed memory in the hearts of his fellows that he was one whose greatest desire it was to assist his Lord and Master in bringing to pass the eternal life and immortality of man.