5 The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo By Alice Driggs Brown and Jane Cutler Weaver CAST OF CHARACTERS Reader Lucy Mack Smith............. Mother of the Prophet CHARTER Members OF RELIEF SOCIETY Emma Smith Leonora Taylor Sarah M. Cleveland Bathsheba W. Smith Phoebe Ann Hawkes Phoebe N. Wheeler y Elizabeth Jones Elvira A. Coles Sophia Packard Margaret A. Cook Philinda Merrick Sarah M. Kimball Martha Knight Eliza R. Snow Desdemona Fulmer Sophia Robinson Elizabeth (Ann Whitney Sophia R. Marks Costumes: Dresses, bonnets, scarfs, paisley shawls, etc., worn at that period.: Setting: Parlor in Heber C. Kimball's home in Nauvoo, with small center table at front and left of stage, rocking chair and small chair at left of table, desk or chest of drawers at rear stage, settee and two or three chairs at right and rear of stage, rag rugs or strips of rag carpet on floor. Portrait pictures in round frames or framed mottoes such as "God Bless Our Home" on the wall, tidies of lace or patchwork on table, chairs and settee, globe of wax flowers, and oil lamp, Bible and album on table, all lend an old-fashioned atmosphere.. Doors, back and right of stage. An orchestra consisting of piano, violin and. Cello, plays an overture during rising and lowering of curtain for both scenes; the same theme throughout as effective. (Where an orchestra is not available, the organ or piano may be substituted.). The reader stands at the right of stage, with curtain lowered, while the orchestra plays an overture. Reader: Let us take you back ninety years to the beautiful city of Nauvoo, the famous gathering place of the Saints in Illinois. The Church has been in existence only twelve years. It has suffered much from the ravages of persecution and apostasy. It has been driven from Palmyra to Kirtland, from Kirtland to Jackson County, Missouri, and from Missouri to Illinois. The Prophet Joseph and many of the brethren have been imprisoned, their homes and property taken from them. The sufferings of the Saints have been so intense that only the faithful have reached Nauvoo. Their trials at this time are greatly aggravated by the physical weakness resulting from recent privations and sufferings in Missouri. Scarcely a family in Nauvoo or vicinity has ORGANIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 145 escaped the scourge of cholera and winter fever. And with it all, they are again building a Temple. It is due to these distressing conditions that a desire has been awakened among the sisters for an organization of the women members of the Church whereby relief might be "given to the suffering Saints in a systematic way. Thus we begin our first scene showing the parlor of the Kimball home in Nauvoo, where the women are meeting to discuss and formulate plans to present to the Prophet Joseph for his consideration and approval. Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball is greeting the women as they come in. Scene I: Grandma Lucy Mack Smith kitting in rocker by small table near front and left of stage, vacant chair to her left; Sarah M. Kimball standing by table, facing audience, Elvira Coles and Elizabeth Whitney ion sofa at right of table near back of stage, Sarah M. Cleveland in chair by sofa, Phoebe Wheeler coming from another room at rear, enters room, adjusting her hair, just having removed her hat. Phoebe takes vacant seat at left of Lucy Mack Smith and begins to examine her knitting. Orchestra plays a few measures of appropriate music as curtain slowly rises, giving audience time to contemplate scene before the characters speak. Sarah M. Kimball speaks as Phoebe Wheeler enters the room. Sarah M. Kimball:. You know, sisters, I have just been thrilled ever since we discussed this matter the other day. If we could only be organized! Wouldn't Sister Emma Smith make a splendid leader? Elizabeth Whitney: Yes, indeed she would. Dear me, it makes my heart ache to see such poverty and suffering among us and not be able to help as we could if we had an organization. Think of the number that have died from cholera and winter fever. It seems to me that we should have committees to take care of the different kinds of work. Each committee should be responsible for one part of the work. 'We could accomplish much more and the work would be done more efficiently. Don't you think so? ' Elvira Coles: Yes, indeed! Sarah Kimball: J think that a splendid suggestion. (As Sister Whitney says "work would be done' there is knock on door to right of stage. Sarah Kimball goes to door and opens it.) Sarah Kimball: Come right in, Sister Smith, and Sister Snow. We are all here waiting for you. Sisters Smuth and Snow: Good afternoon, everybody. All say: Good Afternoon. Sarah Kimball:, Come in the other room and remove your hats. Emma Snuth (While they are removing hats): I'm sorry we have kept you waiting, but I was detained the last minute by an urgent case of sickness. Phoebe Wheeler: By the way, ladies, I called to see Sister Peterson this morning. Her two children are seriously ill in bed and all they had to cover them was a poor, ragged quilt. There was no carpet on the floor and not a cup of flour in the house. This is just one family. There are so many others. Sister Emma has been visiting another family in similar circumstances.  Emma Smith: Yes, that is a pitiful case, too, but their faith is strong and they try not to complain. You know, sisters, if we were united and 'had the authority to go ahead and do things, we might approach some of our brothers who are well-to-do and secure donations. Then we would have a fund upon which to draw. Some would give us clothes and others flour and groceries. Eliza Snow: Yes, and we could get together and have rag bees and make rag rugs and carpets. 'We could sew quilts too, couldn't we? There are so many families that need bedding. Grandma Lucy, what do you think about it? Lucy Mack Smith: I think it is a splendid idea, dear, and I would be there with my needle and thread to help. My eyes are getting dim, but I think I could see to sew carpet rags. Phoebe Wheeler (Pats Grandma Lucy on shoulder and says): Bless your heart, we knew you would help. Elvira Coles: That is just fine, dear lady. Sisters, another thing came to my mind. Have you thought how we could help in building the temple? We all know how hard the men are working and I can imagine how they would appreciate some surprise dinners. We might assist with the work, too, by carrying water for the masons. My arms are strong and I could do that. (Bends arm to show muscle.) Sarah Cleveland: Honestly, sisters, it amazes me to think of the service we might render. With so many of the apostles and others on missions and immigrants arriving so often we are really needed to help out. If the (Prophet Joseph would organize us we could get down to work immediately. I read the other day of a body of women in the states known as the Anti-slavery Organization. This body of women have been holding public meetings, making speeches and discussing the broad principles of human rights. Our cause is as worthy and of as much importance as theirs but we need to be organized to get results, Emma Smith: Well, sisters, let us formulate some plan. If we were officially organized, what would be our name? Sarah Cleveland:. I was thinking about that this morning. Since our aim is to give relief we might name ourselves a relief society and as the male members are not included we might call ourselves the "Ladies' Relief Society." Different ones respond in unison: That is a good name. A splendid name. A very appropriate name. Lucy Mack Smith: A very sensible name, I'm sure. Sarah Kimball:. I'll find a pencil and paper and let us have someone write this down. (Sarah goes to desk or table drawer in rear of room.) Sarah Cleveland: Let us have Sister Eliza Snow for our secretary. Sister Eliza, I'll bring you a chair and will you please come to the table and write the by-laws. (After bringing chair to table and getting Eliza R. Snow seated, all in room come slowly to table.) These by-laws we will present to the Prophet for his approval, and I feel sure he will realize what a benefit we could be to the community. ORGANIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 147 Now, let's see—what shall we write first? (By this time they have all gathered to table, facing audience. They are looking down at Eliza R. Snow and tablet, thus forming a tableau.) Music by orchestra as curtain falls. Reader: So these sisters took their by-laws written by Eliza R. Snow to the Prophet Joseph, who received them kindly and said he would be pleased to organize the women of the Church., In fact, he said he had been considering this vital question for some time. His plans, however, were greater and more comprehensive than they had contemplated. So on March 17, 1842, he called these women together, eighteen in all, to meet at the Masonic Temple, to perfect the organization. Accompanying Joseph Smith on this important occasion were Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards of the Council of the Twelve. — They began their meeting by singing the hymn, '""The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." Elder John Taylor offered the invocation. Their deliberations resulted in a unanimous expression of good will and a desire that all the sisters present be admitted to membership in this society for human service. In addressing the meeting, the Prophet outlined the purposes of the organization, after which officers were selected and voted upon as follows: Emma Smith, president; Sarah M. Cleveland, first counselor; Elizabeth Ann 'Whitney, second counselor; Eliza R. Snow, secretary; Phoebe M. Wheeler, assistant secretary; and Elvira Coles, treasurer. The officers were then set apart, and Emma Smith, the new president, took charge of the meeting. & The next order of business was the selection of a name for the new society. Elder John Taylor suggested that it be called 'The Nauvoo Female Benevolent Society," which name was approved by the Prophet Joseph. Counselor Cleveland proposed the name of "The Nauvoo Female Relief Society,' and was supported by Counselor Whitney and President Emma Smith. This name carried the vote, and the Society was known 'as "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." The Prophet recommended that all members hereafter be admitted to the Society by vote. He then told them to conduct meetings according to parliamentary procedure, instructing the women to work in cooperative manner, to respect and hold sacred the confidences of one another; that they should be pure in heart and always armed with mercy. "If you would have mercy from God, have mercy for one another." He gave instructions on how to care for the poor, the sick and the unfortunate. "This society should be not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." The Prophet made the first contribution to the charity fund, by donating five dollars in gold with the remark, "Hereafter, what I do for charity, I shall do through this Society. A charitable organization is according to your natures. It is very natural for women to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a position where you can act according to these sympathies that God has planted in your hearts. If 'you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. I now turn the key for you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice. Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down upon you from this time.". So impressed were the women with what had taken place on this  occasion, they just had to meet to talk things over. Thus we see them gathering again at the Kimball home after meeting with the Prophet Joseph and the two apostles. Scene Il: Stage setting same as for Scene I. Sarah M. Kimball leads, going into her home after the meeting. The six officers follow her. Orchestra plays while curtain slowly rises. Sarah Kimball: Come in, sisters, and rest for a few minutes. Take off your hats. Emma Smith: No, Sister Sarah, we won't remove our hats because we can only stay a few minutes. (Sarah Kimball goes into the other room and removes hat. Eliza R. Snow puts notebook and papers on table and sits down at table facing middle of room. Other sisters in group talking. As Eliza speaks, Emma Smith leaves group and comes to table facing audience. Others sit on sofa and chairs. Emma Smith stands, Sarah Kimball returns to room while Elza Snow is of Sarah Kimball goes over to sofa and tells sisters to sit down.) Eliza R. Snow: Sister Emma, I should like to go over the minutes of the meeting while everything is fresh in our minds. T do want the record of this meeting to be accurate for everything the Prophet said was so important. I should like to read it over to you and— (While giving this last sentence, there is a knock, the door is pushed open, and Sophia Packard looks in. With her are the remaining women of the group.) Sophia Packard: We saw you come in Sister Kimball's and we couldn't resist following. We all came to tell you how delighted we are with our officers and we are going to support you in every way possible. (While talking, she goes over to Emma Smith and takes her hand. The others come into room and mingle in groups.) Elvira Coles: I can see we are going to be a happy united band of workers., You know when the Prophet sent word that we were to meet with him today, such a wonderful feeling came over me. I felt as though something of great moment was about to happen to us. Hasn't this meeting today just exceeded our expectations? And to think the Prophet has had this in mind for some time! Elizabeth Whitney: 1 think we are all thrilled with the wonderful spirit of the occasion. The Prophet gave us the authority to go ahead and do according to our charitable and kindly impulses, but did you notice that all our meetings are to be conducted in a business like manner, according to parliamentary rules? Emma Smith: Yes, sisters, we officers will have to study parliamentary procedure now and with all the work we have planned, it means untiring effort and diligence, for this is going to prove a big undertaking. And sisters, we officers do feel our responsibility, but you have spoken and shown in so many ways your willingness to help that we feel with the help of the spirit of the Lord that we are going to be blessed with strength to accomplish everything we set out to do. Eliza R. Snow (has been sitting, but now stands): For my part, sisters, I feel that we are blessed in having, as our president, the wife ORGANIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 149 of our beloved Prophet. I also feel it is a great honor to be chosen secretary of this organization, and I pledge you my word that I will try faithfully to do my duty in this capacity. Sisters, we have a complete organization now. The Prophet told us that he had turned the keys for us, in the name of God, and we would rejoice in our work. He made some wonderful promises to us also. Tears came into my eyes many times while he was talking. Think of it, sisters, he said that if we lived up to our privileges the angels of heaven could not be restrained from being our associates. Martha Knight: What touched me too, was the Prophet's sympathy and fairness. I guess he realized that sometimes we criticize each other unthinkingly, so he told us we should be merciful and work with a cooperative spirit. Another thing, don't you remember, he said we should hold sacred the confidences of each other. I made up my mind right then that I would not say anything to offend or hurt anyone's feelings if I could help it., Elizabeth Ann Whitney: Yes, and he said that knowledge and intelligence would flow down upon us from this time and that we should have love for religion, culture, education and refinement. Sophia Robinson: Wasn't that splendid! Just think, this is the first real organized Relief Society in our country. The Prophet said that all our relief work should be done through this Society, and when he presented the $5 in gold, he said that hereafter all his donations would be made through us. Philinda Merrick: Yes, and sisters, we must remember our official name. Let's see, Sister Sarah Cleveland proposed the name, ''Nauvoo Female Relief Society" and I'm so glad we voted for that in preference to "Nauvoo Female Benevolent Society." I believe I'd get my tongue twisted if I had to repeat that name very often. I like the name "Relief Society" because that's what we are, isn't it, a society to give relief. Emma Smith: Well, sisters, I believe we have all come away from this meeting with a wonderful spirit of cooperation and now while we are all here let's decide when and where we shall hold our first meeting. Sarah Kimball (extending both arms graciously): You are all welcome to meet here at my home. Curtain slowly descends as orchestra plays an overture. Reader: Thus ends the story of the first heroic efforts of the eighteen charter members to establish a Relief Society composed entirely of women, the anniversary of which we have met this day to celebrate. From such a small beginning, the Relief Society has grown until it is national and international in scope and influence. We feel that it is a privilege of great magnitude to belong to an organization of 64,000 members, all of the same faith. Music by orchestra.