MASONIC HALL, WHERE THE RELIEF SOCIETY WAS ORGANIZED IN 1842 BY THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH
Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
THE RELIEF SOCIETY this month is ninety years old. This great sisterhood engaged in benign charity, in retrospection now beholds wonders of progress and achievement. So the good work of loving kindness goes on from year to year—God bless the Relief Society.
"CHEER up" was the message Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt sent to the world on her 73rd birthday. "As soon as everybody works the depression will end. We'll come out of this one—as we always have before," is her optimistic prophecy.
STATISTICS tell us that the decrease in marriages and divorces was due to the depression. In June of last year Reno issued a divorce every eight minutes. One wonders what would happen if there were no depression.
KATHERINE HARING, of New Haven, was recently awarded the Loomis fellowship of $1500 in chemistry at Yale University. She is the first of her sex to be so honored. The award is one for which the most brilliant men in the chemistry departments compete.
MISS VIRGINIA KIRKUS of Harper Brothers, publishers, has set a high standard in the selection and presentation of books for children and adolescents. Her judgment in this matter would be most helpful to parents in the selection of books for children.
THE Real "Alice in Wonderland" is to visit America in May. Mrs. R. G. Hargreaves, a little old lady now, who has two sons buried in Flanders Field, is the original heroine of that wonderful story, so dear to every little child. The author, Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, whose pen name was Lewis Carroll, promised to write out the story for Alice Liddell which he so delightfully wove for her one summer day in 1862. He kept the promise and gave her the manuscript, borrowing it once to have a facsimile made. This original manuscript was sold at auction in 1928 and brought $72,250. It will be shown at the centenary celebration at Columbia University in May with 15 known copies of the first edition. January 27, this year, was Carroll's centenary and it was celebrated in London, with Mrs. Hargreaves present. The celebration in New York was deferred until May, that Mrs. Hargreaves might be spared an ocean crossing in winter.
"JADWIGA," by Charlotte Kellogg, is one of the new books much praised by the critics. It has an interesting preface by Ignaz Paderewski, the Polish statesman and artist.
"THE WOMEN'S HOUSE OF DETENTION" is the name for the new prison New York is building for women. This is a step in prison reform long desired where women prisoners may be segregated and those only held as witnesses or on suspicious charges will not have to mingle with the criminal class.
REPRESENTATIVE EDITH NOURSE ROGERS of Massachusetts has recommended to President Hoover combined homes and hospitals for women veterans of the World War. Another step forward in behalf of women.
It Slays to Advertise
By Harrison R. Merrill
WE are all game for the advertiser and there is no buck law or closed season. He guns for both sexes the year around, and in all sorts of places. We are bombarded from roadside bill-boards, from the pages of magazines and newspapers, from the pulpit, the screen, and even from our own firesides. When a magazine is opened with its gorgeous coloring and enticing slogans and catch words, or when the radio is turned on I feel what pennies I possess scurrying for cover. They remind me of chickens when the screech of a hawk is heard over head. Unlike the chickens, rarely do the pennies escape.
Slogans and statements with all the assurance of truth and innocence gaze calmly at us from various places, or ride to us on the invisible steeds of the ether until they become a part of our thinking. We get the habit of subscribing to them subconsciously. Because seven million glasses of a certain beverage are sold daily, we call for it at the soda fountain without taking the trouble to think. Occasionally something occurs that sets up a resistance—the child and the hot poker idea—but usually we go merrily along unconscious of our bill-board magazine-page thinking.
I developed some resistance rather early in life when a cousin of mine, a little older than I wanted to bet his flipper against my knife that he could out-run me and run on one leg half of the time. I found that he was right and lost my knife even though I had misinterpreted. A few years later I bought from a friend a fine Waltham watch in a case that was guaranteed for 20 years. In time the gold wore off the case and I took it to a jeweler for replacement.
"This case was guaranteed for twenty years," said I. "It has gone bad and I'd like a new one."
"Very well," said he, "if you'll tell me who made the guarantee, I'll take the matter up with him."
"The guarantee is right there on the case," I answered.
"So it is," he replied, "but unfortunately, whoever put the guarantee on it neglected to put his name or the name of his company with it. Waltham, you know, didn't make the case."