Vol. 37.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1909.						No. 7.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
A Tribute to Sister Hyde..................................
	..............................Julia P. M. Farnsworth	49
Reminiscenses of Nauvoo.........Louisa Decker	49
A Very Interesting Old Letter...........................
	.........................President Joseph F. Smith	51
Celebration Portland Relief Society.................	55
17th of March Anniversary...Leonora Worthen	55
Resolutions of Respect.....................................	55
Obituary............................................................	55
A Loving Tribute..................Abbie H. Cowley	56
Relief Society Stake Report: Bear River..........	56
Nineteenth Ward Hall...........Agnes G. Branch	56
Notes and News................................................	56
Editorial:—In Memoriam of Rachel Ridgeway
	Ivins Grant................................................	52
	Here and There.........................................	53
	Birthday Party...........................................	54
	Social Hall Parties....................................	54
	Sisters Badger and Nuttall........................	54
	Editorial Notes..........................................	55
Poetry:—In Memoriam of Annie Taylor Hyde
	......................................Carrie S. Thomas	49
	In Memory of Annie Taylor Hyde............
	........................................Ellis R. Shipp....	49
	Grandmother’s Fan...................................
	..............................Queenie Scott-Hopper	50


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
	ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE.
Read at the R. S. Conference, April 2, 1909.

A gentle spirit hers we miss today—
Her Father called—we could not bid her stay
Her work so sweetly done, now she may rest,
We still are toiling thitherward—God knows best.

And so we do not mourn, for well we know
Thou hadst thy meed of suff’ring here below,
Earth’s narrow vision widened, thou mayst see
Much that to us remains a mystery.

It is not Life to live mechanically—
We do not live while lacking charity—
For Love is All, and Love is God’s own way:
“He prayeth best who loveth most” they say.

And in that blessed Evermore we’ll see
What now, perchance, hath been revealed to thee:
God’s will be done! and Father grant us grace
To reach with her, Thine own abiding place!
					CARRIE S. THOMAS.

IN MEMORY OF ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE.
How short the span—how brief the day
	That binds to earth a mortal soul;
This earthly part a crumbling clay,
	That human mind cannot control;
That yearning hearts cannot retain
	The lives encircling arms enfold,
’E’en love, and hope, and faith are vain—
	Enfeebling strength must loose its hold,
Must loose its hold, must humbly bow
	In meek submission to God’s will,
Too weak to see the wherefore now—
	Yet trusting faith is living still!
Above, beyond, o’ermastering all
	The Universe of life and light,
Our Father’s love shines through the pall
	Of death, and gloom, and sorrow’s night.
How infinite, how limitless,
	Immutable, and without end
The powers of our God to bless,
	How far His mercies can extend—
Through every varying, changing phase
	Of mortal life for all on earth,
In tender, loving, nameless ways
	Proclaims for all immortal birth!
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.

	A TRIBUTE TO SISTER HYDE.
	We do not feel that a word can be uttered
that will add to the record of our dear sister,
whom we have met to honor this day. She
has ever been a true, womanly woman in all
that the word implies. A wife and mother,

[Column 2]
noble, sincere, capable and devoted; a
daughter kind and faithful in all things. A
consistent, genuine Latter-day Saint. As
sister and friend, generous, tender and true;
as counselor, wise, earnest and just.
	The Spartan fortitude which marked Sis-
ter Hyde’s entire life work has been most
heroically exemplified in her last critical ill-
ness; cheerful, patient and hopeful under the
most serious conditions, thoughtful and soli-
citous for others, charitable, generous and
courteous to every one, and nothing but her
own implicit faith and trust in God and His
mercies could have sustained her through
the long months of intense suffering she has
endured.
	Our acquaintance since laboring in the
General Relief Society Board with our dear
sister has been of a close, intimate nature.
Long, hard missionary trips, sometimes
made by team, have brought out many traits
of character that years of association in our
home towns would not have developed.
We have made several long journeys with
dear Sister Annie Hyde, and never found
one quality that was other than pure, elevat-
ing, beautiful and womanly. She was a
natural born lady in very deed, refined, cul-
tured and well informed to an unusual de-
gree. A woman of wonderful faith and in-
tegrity, temperate in all her habits, modest
in dress, a conscientious Relief worker and
officer, gentle and self-sacrificing under every
condition. She never failed in her appoint-
ments, neither was she tardy in attending
her meetings. Always thoughtful and anx-
ious for those who entertained and gave to
us the most cordial and best of their hospi-
tality. She was ever charitable and liberal
to the poor, loyal and staunch to her friends.
The personal loss to her immediate family
alone can over balance what we, her sister-
associates and near companions, sustain at
this time. Women like Sister Hyde leave
an indelible memory, a strong tie, that time
can never efface.
	For Annie Taylor Hyde came of a fine an-
cestry. On her mother’s side Jane Ballan-
tyne was of the sturdy, high souled Scotch
Covenanters who did so much to establish
religious freedom in their own country, and
sent so many noble men and women to the
New World to help in its colonization. Her
father, John Taylor, was ever the trusted
friend and often the companion of our be-
loved Prophet and Patriarch, and the only
man whose blood mingled with that of our
martyred heroes, he having been wounded
five times on that memorable 27th of June,
1844, at Carthage. President Taylor was
not only one of the early defenders and pro-
moters of the Latter-day Saint Church, the
able expounder of our Savior’s gospel, but
he was one of the most polished, learned,
scholarly men identified with the Pioneer
founders of Utah, our great and growing
commonwealth, also the third president of
her people.
	Then ’tis no wonder, being of such worthy,
intelligent parentage, born and reared in this
grand, high mountainous region of the great
Wasatch range, that Sister Hyde has left a
record, a character all may honor and emu-
late.

[Column 3]
	We will miss her able counsel, her gentle,
cheerful presence. We mourn with her loved
ones in their irreparable bereavement, yet
we feel stimulated for we have faith and
hope in our Father’s promises, in the glori-
ous reuniting of family circles, knowing this
is only the preparatory life, the hereafter is
eternal, everlasting, and the separation brief.
If we live worthily we will again meet our
dear friend, our beloved associate.
	May a portion of God’s influence be in the
homes and lives of Sister Hyde’s family,
especially the two missionaries, her absent
sons, to comfort and bless, to guide and di-
rect, to strengthen them at this time, is our
earnest, sincere prayer.
		JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.

	Read at the R. S. Conference, April 2,
1909.


REMINISCENCES OF NAUVOO.
Written by LOUISA DECKER for the Exponent.
		(Continued from page 42.)
	It was now our task to get our wagon
ready, Nathaniel getting a permit to go on
the field to bring the front wheels of the
wagon that had been used to mount a can-
non. The city was now in possession of
the enemy and parties were searching for
ammunition and guns that might not have
been delivered. Our trunks and boxes were
emptied on the floor, and as I followed them
from room to room, I said, “These are the
men that make our homes desolate.”
	Now we made all haste to cross the river.
We helped mother to her seat in the wagon,
Nathaniel driving and I following with the
one horse wagon that father had used to de-
liver his work.
	We traveled slow and stopped with some
camp of Saints at night, as there were
many all along the road. There was much
sickness in these camps, and the fall rain
made the roads bad. Some had camped
where the men could get a few days’ work.
	We got as far as Garden Grove, where a
few had settled. We found a family that
we knew in Kirtland by the name of Mac-
Kinney. They received mother in their
house, where she gave birth to a baby boy,
which only lived a few hours; and mother
passed away on the morning of the 5th of
November.
	Here we found kind friends to see that
mother and babe were properly dressed, one
neighbor, Brother Whipple, made the neat
pine board coffin that held mother and babe.
	Now we were prepared to continue our jour-
ney to Winter Quarters. My brother Na-
thaniel and a few young men heard that
they could get work down in Missouri where
they went. The MacKinneys offered my-
self and brother Benjamin for a small rent
payment room to put our camp stove in one
side of their big fireplace and room to put
our bed, while some of their older boys
slept in our wagons. This was a family of
twelve children, father and mother, and a
big log room to shelter all. Here I cooked
and cared for my little brother, sometimes
getting a dish of hominy from the big-
hearted Sister MacKinney.


[Column 1]
	As soon as the weather permitted, we
started for Winter Quarters, arriving three
weeks before the second company started
for the valley. Here we found we were
short of the requirement of provisions for
all of us to continue our journey. My
brother, after trying to collect some money
that was owing father, (the brethren were in
no condition to do anything besides look
after their own families) after asking coun-
sel of Father Morley (he was one set apart
to give counsel) he decided to wait another
year. He made arrangements with a fam-
ily named Kinyon for me to travel with;
paying him one hundred dollars in provi-
sions. We had an uncle here, Benjamin
Aber, who offered for a small weekly pay-
ment to take care of our little brother; we
left our wagons and goods in his care,
while my elder brother went down in Mis-
ssuri to get work. He was in his eighteenth
year. The next spring he was sick with
malaria, and the next year while coming up
the river, he had his trunk, clothing and
money stolen. Sick and discouraged, he
went to Cincinnati where he worked into a
partnership in the steel and stencil engrav-
ing business. He prospered, and bought
out his partner. We corresponded until the
civil war broke out, when he wrote that he
thought of joining the army. That was the
last I heard of him.
	At Winter Quarters I met my sister Mary.
She had lost her young husband, John Mur-
dock. While driving the cattle through the
Missouri river, he had taken cold and died,
and was the first white man buried in the
Indian Mound at Winter Quarters, leaving
a bride of five months, a widow at the age
of fifteen. She stayed with her husband’s
mother, and journeyed across the plains in
Captain Jedediah M. Grant’s company. I
traveled in Captain A. O. Smoot’s com-
pany. Kinyon being captain of ten, I drove
a two horse team for him as far as Fort Lar-
amie, where my team and three other horses
were stolen by Indians. From there to the
valley I drove a yoke of oxen; walking most
of the way to lighten the load. I helped
set out the meals, wash dishes, make mush
for next day’s lunch milked four cows that
gave enough milk for our mush. This I
strained in a churn, and and the jolting
of the wagon churned butter for one meal;
seven in family, three boys, Mr. and Mrs.
Kinyon, her brother George Swartout, and
myself.
	One morning at Green River, Sister
Kinyon’s babe was born, a widow by the
name of McKimins acting as doctor and
nurse. In about two days we drove on,
joining our company at their noon lunch.
The babe became a great comfort to me,
it was something to love all the next win-
ter. I would hurry through my work to hold
it in my arms. The family never knew how
the orphan girl longed for the kind words
they so freely gave their own, and that I
had been so recently deprived of. The
mother was a good woman, but the father
was always surly with me; only speaking
to order some work done. He became
weak in the faith, and later going to Cali-
fornia to seek better conditions. On his re-
turn trip he and two others were killed by
the Indians. I heard the family went to
southern California in the spring of ’48.
	Aunt Sally Murdock, my sister’s mother-
in-law, complained that carrying the water
across the fort and other work was too hard
for me. She made arrangements to take me
and demanded my share of provisions, five
hundred of flour, which she got. They had

[Column 2]
received flour in payment for bringing me
out and keeping me a year. As soon as the
roots began to grow, I had dug them and
mostly lived on them; although they were
almost tasteless it stopped the gnawing
hunger; and I was told it was wicked to eat
more than was necessary to stop hunger; the
children were younger than I, and I felt
they needed the bread more than I did,
having less control of their appetites.
	The Mormon Batallion boys were coming
into the valley now and had to be fed;
each family giving what they could spare.
By trade, work and donations they managed
to live. People had now begun to move
out on pieces of land, to raise crops, having
brought seed with them, some living in
wagon boxes, others in tents, some leaving
their families in the fort. I went with
Aunt Sally Murdock and her young son
Nymphas, fourteen years of age, to help
plant and herd the cows off the fields. We
had no fences. We had neighbors doing
the same. Our crops on Mill Creek bench
were doing fine; irrigation ditches running,
everything looking prosperous, good bread,
milk and sego roots to eat Here we fared
better than some of our neighbors. One
near us, having a cow and a little meal,
lived on gruel, another, by the name of
Johnson, lived on milk alone, their families
in the Fort, faring little better, all waiting
for the crops to mature. Then came the
big black crickets. All turned out to drive
them off; the old lady Murdock and myself
with willow limbs walking up and down
each row and Nymphas filling the ditches
with water to drown them.  But with all we
could do, more came, until we realized our
efforts were vain. Then came our God-
given blessing, the gulls. We stood in
wonderment to see them fill themselves and
disgorge, filling again and again. Then we
knew the Lord sent them. Aunt Sally
raised her arms to beaven and said, “O
Lord, we thank Thee for our deliverance!”
Here I wish to bear my testimony that I
know our heavenly Father sent the gulls.
	Ours were the first people to make homes
west of the Missouri river, a thousand miles
from civilization. Our Heavenly Father
had delivered us from persecutions and
drivings of those who hated our religion,
gave us a goodly land where the Saints
have grown to a mighty people still grow-
ing and prospering as we never could in
Kirtland, Missouri or Nauvoo, only in the
valleys of the mountains, where a multitude
have found homes, raised sturdy children to
manhood and womanhood—no more intel-
ligent ones to be found in all the world.
	I lived with Sister Murdock until my
eighteenth year, then stayed with my sister
Mary. She had married again and lived in
Kaysville and remained there for fifteen
years, where her six children were born.
Her husband, O. S. Holmes, was persuaded
to go to California, going with team, driving
his herd. By this journey my sister had
crossed the continent from New Jersey to
the Pacific in a covered wagon. Her hus-
band died a few years after, and I was at
her bedside eight years after when she
passed away.
	My brother Benjamin lived four years with
Uncle Aber. Tired of waiting one morning
he started out bare-headed and bare-footed
to walk to the valley. After walking until
very tired, he came to a camp of men going
to the California gold mines. They kindly
brought him to where the roads turned off,
then got him in a train coming this way.

[Column 3]
He is now living on his ranch in Provo
valley.
	I was married to Charles H. Decker a
pioneer, and one that was an active business
man, aiding in many ways the improve-
ments being made. He crossed the plains
fifty-three times, carrying the United States
mail through a hostile Indian country, es-
caping only by outriding them. At times
he was guide in finding and rescuing the late
hand cart companies; was in the mountains
in Echo Canyon the winter Johnston’s
army was coming. He served in the Indian
wars, and belonged to the company called
minute men, and later the Nauvoo Legion
He was a liberal giver at the time of the
wheat famine when many were asking for
bread, many new comers who had spent
their last dollar to bring their families to the
valley. The crops failing that year, flour
was ten cents a pound, and very little to
sell. It was a pitiful sight to see women
selling their trinkets, rings, relics that they
had held almost sacred, for something to
feed their hungry families, children out ask-
ing for crusts of bread; men begging for
work at any price, and again the grass-
hoppers stripped our gardens and trees of
every vestige of green, leaving them in a few
hours as bare as in a winter day. My hus-
band died seven years ago in March, in his
seventy-sixth year. His first wife, Vilate Y.
Decker, died soon after, leaving three chil-
dren, two sons; a daughter, Alice Pitt, now
living in Sugar Ward, had twelve children.
I have only two living, five dying a few
hours after birth.
	My daughter lives in San Francisco.
While visiting her I witnessed the earth-
quake and fire that laid waste that beauti-
ful thriving city where death and destruc-
tion now reigned. In the confusion parents
lost their children. and children their par-
ents. Babes were sent East to find homes,
and will never know to whom they be-
longed. Two days we were cut off from the
rest of the world. All means to stop the
fire were exhausted. We had gone to the
hills when the relief firemen arrived. Next
came the carload of bread from Utah, and
other relief soon followed, money was of no
use. There was nothing to sell. Rich and
poor lined up in the street and waited for
their rations. But the story is too long to
tell here. I trust I have not wearied my
readers with a few incidents of my life with
the Saints, or tried too severely the patience
of my very dear friend, the Editor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GRANDMOTHER’S FAN.
Grandmother’s fan I shall take today
Thus in my hand to the matinee—
Grandmother’s fan and my pink bouquet.

Graudmother’s fan—such a beauty! See!
Hand-painted satin and ivory!
Grandmother’s fan—and ’twill dance with me!

Daintiest, surely, of dainty things!
Look at the rose-wreaths and cupids’ wings!
Sweetest of odors around it clings.

Grandmother dear, with her girlish grace,
Once ’neath this fan hid her winsome face—
Once when the world was a diff’rent place!

Once when with grandfather first she met,
Daintily treading a minuet—
Grandmother’s fan may remember yet!

Oh she was gentle and blithe and true—
Grandmother dear, past whose cheeks’ soft hue
Fluttered this fan—and her secrets knew!

Let me be like her, if so I may—
who am taking her fan today
Thus in my hand to the matinee!
			QUEENIE SCOTT-HOPPER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A VERY INTERESTING OLD LETTER.
			IN EXILE, March 30, 1887.
My Very Dear Aunt Mercy R.:
	Your welcome favor of Dec. 28, ’86, and
Jan. 9, ’87’ with card of remembrance of
Aunt Martha’s death are all before me.
You have, no doubt, wondered at my long
silence, and thought me neglectful of duty,
but I would not like to rest under such a
feeling from you. I have various, or rather
numerous reasons for delaying my answer to
your welcome letter—for your letters are al-
ways more welcome and pleasing to me than
two-thirds of those I do receive. And more
worthy of my earnest consideration and
prompt acknowledgement. Still more,
there are none more welcome, not even
from my own dear loved ones, for you are
the last remaining link of your generation,
which binds me to the earthly remembrance
of my own beloved and cherished Mother.
Not only by the natural ties of birth and
blood, but by the stronger and more endur-
ing ties of fellowship in the bonds of the
New and Everlasting Covenant.
	The example of your life has been like a
way-mark and a guide to all that is true
and faithful, pure and good, for all who
have known you. There can be nothing
more satisfying, or more assuring to the
youth of Israel and especially to such as
have known your undeviating, unselfish in-
tegrity to the cause of Zion, than the exam-
ple of yeur life.  I prize it, I bless you for
its happifying influence upon my youthful
and middle age. I thank you with all my
heart for your faithfulness and firmness to
the cause of Zion. And I thank God for His
goodness and mercy towards you all your life
long, and I hope you will live in the flesh to
see Zion redeemed, and the kingdom of God
victorious over all the world. I know you
will live to see this and all the triumphs of
truth throughout the blessed Millennium,
but it may be after the resurrection and re-
newal of that poor, enfeebled frame of yours
which now has to suffer with the ills of
mortality. For you have eaten of the bread
of life, and, have drunk at that fountain
which giveth life eternal.
	On Dec. 20, 1842, the Prophet said:
“Christ and the resurrected Saints will reign
over the earth a thousand years. They will
not probably dwell on the earth, but will
visit it when they please; or when it is nec-
essary to govern it.” The promise is yours
and it is your right to come forth in the morn-
ing of the resurrection, on such the second
death has no power, and with your husband
you shall reign on the earth, although you
may not make it your permanent abiding
place during the thousand years. I know
that you will live to see Zion redeemed, and
you will, with your husband, and those you
have given unto him, together with the
righteous who have part in the first resur-
rection, be priests and priestesses unto God
and Christ and reign with him a thousand
years (see Rev. 20: 6). Then shall Satan
be loosed for “a little season,” and then
comes the final great battle and the victory
of the Lamb of God, and the end of the
world; then will Satan, the old serpent be
bound, with his hosts and thrust into their
pit, and then shall we see a new heaven
and a new earth, for the old shall pass away
and all things shall become new, and then
shall the Saints of the Most High receive their
inheritance forever, and shall possess the new
earth, and the new heaven for ever and forever.
This is the program, as set forth in the
ever living word of God, whose word is true

[Column 2]
and its promise sure, and those who possess
it in their hearts and endure to the end of
mortal life, can afford to rejoice, and suffer
if need be, and have joy therein.
	I look upon your faithful life as an ex-
emplification of implicit faith in this glori-
ous word, and as such it has borne and will
bear its precious fruits which will bud and
blossom and fruit again and again from
generation to generation to all eternity, and
so the end thereof, tho’ not always seen,
passeth understanding and is most glorious.
Well might the Psalmist say, “I have seen
the wicked in great power, and spreading
himself like a green bay tree, yet he passed
away and lo, he was not, yea, I sought him
but he could not be found. Mark the per-
fect man, and behold the upright, for the
end of that man is peace, the salvation of
the righteous is of the Lord, he is their
strength in the time of trouble, and the Lord
shall help them. He shall deliver them
from the wicked and save them, because
they trust in him.” Not many may know
you, but your life has not been hid from
God, nor from the eyes of some of the faith-
ful, and some who have shone in splendor,
and whose praises have been sung, will yet
pale before the beauty of thy glories, and
diminish in the presence of thy greater re-
wards. From the multitude you have been
hid with Christ in God, your faith has been
that of the first order, altho’ meek and quiet,
your works have been those of an exalted
rank, tho’ unpretentious and unboastful.
And such as met the highest commenda-
tions of the great High Priest of your pro-
fession (see Mark 12: 41-44). Your forti-
tude under trials has been wonderful, your
desires, those of a Saint indeed; your char-
ity to the poor has been abundant, unstint-
ed, your devotion to principle, to the king-
dom of God, to prayers and duty has been
faultless, and your life, a life of self-abnega-
tion and sacrifice for others’ good. You
have loved God and Christ, and sought to
honor them in your works. These things
have even been apparent to me, and how
much more so to Him who seeth and know-
all things. I do not say these things to
flatter, the truth is no flattery, much less
when but part of the truth is told, but that you
may know in your old age and feeble years, a
few of the true sentiments of my heart, and
my appreciation of your true Christian ex-
ample; for which your reward is sure.
	The reasons I have not answered sooner
are in part that I have been a little over-
taxed with correspondence and have not
been able to meet the demands upon me.
I still have many letters to answer, and they
keep coming every mail. Before my late
sickness I managed to keep up, but then I
fell behind and have not yet caught up.
Again, I trust you get word from
me from time to time thro’ the family,
so that I thought I could put you off a lit-
tle, and I know you would forgive me for
my seeming neglect. Before this you have
met my precious companion and babies,
from whom I parted on the 16th inst. They
should have reached home, all being well,
on Sunday morning the 27th inst. Allow-
ing one whole day and part of two days in
San Francisco. I earnestly hope they
reached home in safety, enjoying the bless-
ings of health and peace, and found all well
at home. While my precious Sarah has
been a mother to her children, Julina has
been wife and companion, and all a mother
could be to me, unless she could have been
more aud better than human. I feel that
God has blessed me with the best wives in

[Column 3]
all this world. I cannot afford to be un-
true or unfaithful to them. And I thank
God no such thought has ever yet entered
my heart for an instant, I can die any time
the Lord is willing or calls for me, but in
life or in death, I must be true to those who
are true to me. I would rather never have
been, aye, a thousand times never have
been, than to be unfaithful to them. I can-
not see how I can be true to God or myself
without eternal fidelity to them. Therefore
to this end my heart is fixed, and Cod help-
ing me I shall not, for I cannot change, and
would not if I could. But this seems small
talk to me, as no doubt it does to you. It
is not a debatable question, there can be no
ifs and buts about it, for fidelity and truth
to my covenants means eternal life, and
infidelity thereto means death, hell and
damnation! Surely there ought to be no
possible circumstance connected with this
life, wherein a man can for a moment hesi-
tate as to his choice between these two.
And yet men have fallen, therefore I pray and
crave God’s merciful help, that I may stand.
	Well, Robert stayed with me after the
folks left, and he took the best of care of me.
He was “Chief Cook and butler,” and did
his work well. No one could be more kind
or willing to make my lot as pleasant as
possible. We spent almost a week togeth-
er, and then came out here. He has now
gone to Town with the team and saddle
horse to help out some of the poor Saints to
conference. Started this morning and will
be back tomorrow, all being well. I think
it high time that you should enjoy all you
possibly can of what blessings you possess.
Certainly no one is more deserving, and
when you need what I am owing, you shall
have it if everything else has to stop, you
should have had it before if I had been at
home. I may say incidentally that Robert
is well clothed and eomfortable, so is Hy-
rum, no where else in the world are Elders
provided for as they are here, not all of
them appreciate it either. I think Robert
does, and also Hyrum; they both know my
mind on such subjects. They are both
good boys, and both of them are kind and
respectful to their brethren. That dream
and patriarchal blessing was very interest-
ing. I forwarded them to the address you
gave. I would like to have my mother’s
grave and grave stone renovated and re-
lettered, and will try to arrange for having
it done as soon as I can. I have dreamed
several times about her, and I am satisfied
something is wrong, but what it is the
Spirit has not made plain to me, I know I
should do something for her, and if I can
learn what my duty is I shall leave no
stone unturned to do it. I have been some-
what impressed that she desires me to have
her sealed to father in the Temple, but sup-
posing she was sealed in Nauvoo, I have
not known if it was what she wants. I
have no idea that she cares very much about
her grave stone or such things. I am satis-
fied something is needed.
	There is no difficulty about unembodied
or disembodied spirits conversing together
or with mortals (see B. of M. Ether 3: 16,
and Doc. and Cov. Sec. 129: 7). God bless
you and deliver you from affliction and
suffering. Give my love to Mary Jane.
May God bless her, heal her and sustain
her by his Holy Spirit. Give my love to
the girls, and tell them to be true and
faithful. Robert is becoming a good speak-
er on the first principles. Excuse this
hasty scribble and believe me ever, Your
Affectionate Nephew,	JOS. F. SMITH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	-	APRIL, 1909.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	RACHEL RIDGEWAY IVINS GRANT.
“Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that
	her race is run,
God grant we may rest as calmly, when our work
	like hers is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness, our treas-
	ures for him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth
	His loved ones sleep.
So He calls them in from their labors ere the shad-
	ows around them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved ones sleep.”

	A beautiful old age is faithfully depicted
in the life of Sister Rachel Grant who passed
away very early in the morning of January
26, 1909, at the residence of Elder George
J. Cannon in this city, where she had been
living for some years past with her grand-
daughter, Lutie Grant Cannon.
	Sister Grant was herself an ideal home-
maker in every sense of the word. Her
very presence was restful, and her own
home in the Thirteenth ward where she re-
sided for many long years, had the bracing
atmosphere of real home life. Sister Grant
may have inherited this distinctive attribute
from her Dutch ancestry, and it is also a
characteristic of the Quakers or Friends,
and Sister Rachel really had the air, the
tone and mannerism of the Quakers.
	The writer has a faint remembrance of
Miss Ivins as she first saw her in Nauvoo.
She was dressed in silk, with a handsome
lace collar or fichu, and an elegant shawl
over her shoulders, and a long white lace
veil thrown back over her simple straw bon-
net. She carried an elaborate feather fan,
and now in thinking of fans, we recall the
fascination of that fan, one could easily dis-
cern the subdued Quaker pride in her method
of using it.
	The poem, “Grandmother’s Fan,” would
be an appropriate one for her many grand-
daughters.
	Years after first seeing her in Nauvoo,
when she came to the valley in 1853, and
we became intimately acquainted she was
still the same fastidious, born Quaker.
	Elder Heber J. Grant may well be proud
of his grand and noble mother and of her
antecedents. Her forefathers and fore-
mothers were distinguished people; in the
exceptionally well-written article by May
Booth Talmage, published in the Young
Woman’s Journal in April, 1908, she gives
some points concerning the ancestry of Sis-
ter Rachel Grant. One of these the daugh-
ter of a wealthy nobleman of Amsterdam,

[Column 2]
Holland, married an English Knight. The
girl’s father opposed the marriage because
the man was of inferior rank, and became
very bitter when he ascertained the marriage
had been consummated. The young peo-
ple fearing his power to separate them in
their own country, came to America, and it
is said established the Shreve family in this
country. Its members have been conspicu-
ous in the history of New Jersey, and
“Sister Rachel” is one of the descendants.
	Sister Grant, whose maiden name was
Rachel Ridgeway Ivins was the daughter of
Caleb Ivins (whose grandmother was a
Shreve) and of Edith Ridgeway, his wife.
Their home was in the state of New Jersey,
where little Rachel was born, March 7,
1821. Her father was a merchant, though
living upon a farm with a beautiful orchard
in which also grew chestnut, hickory and
walnut trees; he owned besides his own
store, a gristmill and sawmill. Caleb Ivins
was greatly beloved and was Christened by
his neighbors, “The good Samaritan.” His
wife, report says, was a lovely, spirited
woman, and both Mr. and Mrs. Ivins be-
longed to the Quakers or the Society of
Friends. Afterwards Mrs. Ivins joined the
Baptist Church.
	Rachel Ivins was but six years of age
when her father died, and her mother three
years afterwards.
	These sad events changed the home life
of the family; the children were separated,
Rachel went to Trenton, New Jersey to the
home of her cousin, Joshua Wright, where
she remained until eighteen years of age.
It was in this home she learned the arts of
housewifery though her relatives remon-
strated, saying, “such work belonged to the
servants.” She herself said, as quoted in
Sister Talmage’s article, “I could see the
hand of the Lord in this shortly after com-
ing to Utah and having to assume such
practical responsibilities.”
	Sometime after Miss Ivins went to live in
Hornerstown, New Jersey, with an uncle,
Richard Ridgeway, whose wife had died,
and it was during her stay there she first
heard the Gospel. She has quite frequently
told the story of how “after being induced
to go and hear the Elders preach, she went
home and prayed that the Lord would for-
give her for doing so wicked a thing on the
Sabbath day.”
	However she continued to go notwith-
standing the Baptist minister “declared
that if she did not cease she must give up
her seat in the church.”
	Becoming thoroughly convinced of the
truth of the Gospel she braved the opposi-
tion of relatives and friends and became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and in 1842 went to
Nauvoo with some of her cousins of the
Ivins family, who built a handsome home
near the banks of the Mississippi river, and
who were true friends to the Prophet Joseph.
	Miss Ivins then became well acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph and his associates,
passing through the trying and thrilling ex-
periences of the Nauvoo persecutions, cul-
minating finally in the terrible tragedy of
the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patri-
arch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
	Subsequently following these sorrowful
events the Ivins family went back to New
Jersey, Sister Rachel accompanying them.
	In 1853, August 10, Miss Rachel Ivins
came to Salt Lake City, and has lived here
ever since. In November, 1855, she was
married to Jedediah Morgan Grant and
November 22, 1856, a son was born to Sister

[Column 3]
Rachel Grant, named Heber Jedediah, and
on December 1st, 1856, she was left a wid-
ow, but she had her babe, a child of prom-
ise, born in the new and everlasting cove-
nant of marriage.
	Her wealthy relatives in the East en-
treated her to return to them and she would
be amply provided for with no struggle for
herself and child; but like a veritable Saint
indeed she refused all such offers, prefer-
ring to make her own way among those to
whom she was more strongly attached than
the kindred, who were not believers in her
faith.
	Sister Rachel Grant prospered in all her
endeavors and always had friends among
the people, who were proud of her integrity
and her devotion to her religion. She was
an excellent seamstress and an economist,
although she had been reared in luxury; she
adapted herself to conditions and her home
was always a pattern of neatness, and one
would scarcely believe she earned her living
by her needle, or by keeping boarders.
	During those days when her son Heber
was a little boy she often entertained in the
most hospitable way her friends and some-
times very distinguished guests, and in her
own quaint way quoting again from Mrs.
Talmage’s article “They loved to come and
I loved to have them and ofttimes Heber
and I would live on very scanty fare that
we might have the greater pleasure of pro-
viding sommething good to share with our
friends.”
	It has been our privilege to know Aunt
Rachel as we call her intimately ever since
the organization of the Relief Society in the
thirteenth ward in this city. She was chosen
President in April, 1868, and filled the posi-
tion with great credit and dignity for thirty-
five years. Her first Counselors were Annie
T. Godbe and Margaret T. Mitchell, when
Mrs. Godbe was released Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith was selected to fill the vacancy;
and subsequently when Sister Mitchell’s
husband was called on a mission to the
Sandwich Islands and to take his family, Sister 
Mitchell was released and Sister Lydia Ann
Wells was chosen to fill the vacancy, this was
in 1873.
	In 1882 Sister Bathsheba W. Smith moved
from her home in the Historian’s Office to
the seventeenth ward. Sister Lydia Ann
Wells was set apart as First Counselor and
Sister Louisa K. Spencer was chosen Second
Counselor; with these Counselors and other
officers, teachers and members of the So-
ciety over which Sister Grant presided, there
was a strong bond of affection uniting them
together due largely to the leadership and
executive ability of the presiding officers,
who were all of them women of energy and
zeal as well as faith in the Gospel.
	Sister Grant was all her life associated
with the foremost women in the Church;
Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young and
Bathsheba W. Smith with others, too many
to mention here, were her constant com-
panions. When these sisters began to travel
among the sisters outside of Salt Lake City,
Sister Rachel Grant was one selected to aid
in this work. She was a woman of mighty
faith and possessed of unusual power in ad-
ministering to the sick and afflicted.
	Sister Grant’s serenity of mind and patient
endurance under all circumstances was mar-
velous; for many years she had been afflict-
ed with deafness possibly the result of quinzy
or severe throat trouble, yet she uttered no
complaint, although she realized to an al-
most painful degree the embarrassment of
the difficulty, as well as the disadvantage


[Column 1]
of not being able to converse freely with her
friends, and to hear the conversation going on
about her. In a way she was shut out from
society, yet she was a great favorite with all
those, who knew her; a very attractive per-
sonality; she was fond of reading good books
especially Church literature; and was a very
fluent speaker and greatly gifted in prayer.
Even years after her hearing was gone when
she spoke in the meetings of the Saints, one
could not realize she had sat during the en-
tire service without hearing a word; her re-
marks were always interesting and in keep-
ing with the spirit of the meeting.
	Sister Rachel Grant has left quite a pos-
terity although she had only one child of
her own. Ten beautiful grand-daughters and
six great grandchildren, all strongly attached
to her, and mourning her loss; and her son
Heber J, most devoted, loving and tender,
always giving his best to his mother; and
the mother and son have been from his in-
fancy companions and comrades, all that
could possibly spring of joy and gladness,
sympathy and comfort to each other, to
make life desirable, and laudable ambition
a hope and reality. Such ties are stronger
than death, and even in advanced age
mother love is still the dearest thing on
earth. Sister Rachel Grant will live im-
perishably in the hearts of her friends and
her kindred.
	For her there was a glorious reception on
the other side, her husband, dear ones of
her own family and household, and the in-
numerable company of Saints to bid her
welcome in their midst.
	The funeral of Sister Grant was held in
the twenty-seventh ward chapel at 11 o’clock
Friday, January 29, 1909, Bishop James
Maxwell presiding. The chapel was filled
with friends and many prominent business
men of the city. The pulpit and stand were
draped in white with ferns and vines.
	Floral tributes in profusion and in many
beautiful designs. The First Presidency of
the Church and several of the Apostles were
on the stand.
	The service opened with a quartet consis-
ting of Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Miss
Mabel Cooper, George D. Pyper and Horace
S. Ensign, singing, “Thou dost not weep to
weep alone.” Prayer was offered by Elder
Jos. E. Taylor. Elder George D. Pyper sang
a solo “Sister thou wast mild and lovely.”
Elder John Henry Smith was the first
speaker, he said Sister Grant was “faithful
and true, devoted and earnest, a true soldier
of the cross; she had been a guardian angel
among the sick and the afflicted an ex-
emplar of the ideals we hold most dear in
our lives.” He paid an eloquent tribute to
her as a mother, neighbor, friend and Saint.
	President Richard W. Young spoke ten-
derly of the many virtues of “Aunt Rachel”
and the wisdom of her counsel and devotion
to the cause of truth, “She has died with
the love of all who knew her, God will wel-
come such as she.”
	President John R. Winder alluded to the
encouragement he had received from Sister
Rachel Grant and her husband Jedediah M.
Grant (who had preceded her in death many
years) when he first met them in Salt Lake
City 55 years ago; he recounted several in-
cidents that had taken place in her life in
which the nobility of her character was
shown.
	President Anthon H. Lund expressed in a
few choice words his high regard for the de-
parted sister and her son Elder Heber J.
Grant; mentioned the fact of her son being
too young to remember his father when he

[Column 2]
died, but who through his mother’s teach-
ings, had become honored as one of the
Apostles of the Lord.
	Elder Horace S. Ensign then sang “O my
Father” to the old tune which was so fami-
liar to Sister Rachel.
	President Joseph F. Smith spoke in the
most endearing terms of Aunt Rachel Grant
and declared she had been to him dearer
than a mere sister or friend; remarked upon
her loveliness in appearance, and in her
thoughts and actions; he also dwelt upon
the eternal perpetuity of the family relation-
ship as revealed through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, how wives should meet their hus-
bands and parents their children in the re-
surrection. The sermon was full of food for
thought and emphasized with great emotion,
it was a very profound discourse.
	“Farewell all earthly honors,’’ was ren-
dered by the quartet, and the closing prayer
offered by Elder Rulon S. Wells.
	A long procession of carriages followed
the remains to the grave, where the hymn
“Rest on the hill side rest” was sung and
the grave dedicated by Elder J. Hyrum Grant,
as the last earthly resting place of one
honored and beloved a mother in Israel.
“So He brings them home to rest, with the Vic-
	tors crowned and blest.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HERE AND THERE.
	The new and strange events constantly
transpiring here and elsewhere throughout
the world are so many and various, that it is
quite impossible to keep posted even if one
had time to read the daily papers including
all telegraphic dispatches; therefore one
must be content with here a little and there
a little, and perhaps better not to know too
much.
	Waves of disaster by sea and by land, all
sorts of calamities and accidents transpir-
ing, and commotions and troubles, and wars
in countries afar off and notwitstanding all
these destructive forces great movements
in the way of progress are made, numerous
discoveries and inventions; colonizing new
countries and opening up facilities for agri-
culture and commerce, and for speedy com-
munication over long distances, both on
the ocean and on land, such as were not
dreamed of forty or fifty years ago—one can-
not help wondering what we are coming to;
or what will be the next step in advance-
ment towards a higher state of civilization.
	Will it be communication with the people
on the planet Mars? Who can tell? Un-
doubtedly the great effort to ascertain if
Mars is inhabited or not will soon be made.
	One thing that the Latter-day Saints do
know, is that the Lord has in these last days
spoken from the heavens, and told his pro-
phets many wonderful things concerning what
would transpire in the world, during certain
periods of time and many of these things
predicted have already come to pass, and
have been fulfilled to the letter; others we
solemnly believe will be.
	Are this people giving heed there to?
	In our opinion many are: there has cer-
tainly been during the last seven or eight
years, great changes for the better. Quorums
and organizations have been set in order
more perfectly, and the people generally
have been more diligent and faithful in the
discharge of duties and obligations, and
greater harmony of action promoted.
	The many responsibilities resting upon
the sisters in the Church and especially
mothers seem to have increased, because of

[Column 2]
the tendency of the times towards greater
freedom of action, among the people gener-
ally than in former days, when things were
more primitive, and there were not so many
temptations in the way of the young people
—and we find this is not only the case in
cities, or large towns but even farther away
from great centres, similar tendencies pre-
vail to an almost alarming extent, is it for
lack of proper restraint? Very much has
been done by the Latter-day Saints; fathers
and mothers and heads of families have tried
to stem the current, and excesses of various
habits and customs, and yet one is appalled
at the prevalence of some of the evils once
entirely unknown and unheard of among
people of religious belief, or high moral
standards.
	It is useless perhaps to enumerate these
things, yet one is scarcely justified in being
silent on vital subjects, that undermine the
health and hinder the growth of the best and
highest attributes of the heart and soul.
	Extremes of all kinds are detrimental to
the individual in some ways and should al-
ways if possible be avoided.
	It may be that in the days long ago, our
people had too much hard work and priva-
tion, but the tendency was not hurtful ex-
cept perhaps in rare instances; but idleness
and disregard for law and order—and living
beyond one’s means, and trying to keep up
appearances beyond one’s actual income is
a great risk to one’s morals, and leads to
many evils, that cannot always be overcome
without lessening one’s opinion of himself
at least. The simple home life such as the
early settlers in this valley practised and
maintained, and was counseled by those who
practised what they preached was in itself
a protection and a veritable safeguard.
	A real home means much to children and
to family life altogether. In the early days
one felt a great pride and satisfaction in real-
izing that most of the Latter-day Saints owned
their own homes and a garden spot at least;
but now-a-days it is not so much thought of
or the fact appreciated, that to the children
it is so significant.  Home is of itself an
almost inexhaustible subject, a permanent
dwelling place where one can enjoy the tran-
quility, the peace, the restfulness that comes
from the society of loved ones, and where
there is protection from dangers and evil.
To be sure there are thousands yet among
our people who own their own homes, but
the fashion nowadays is to live in flats or
to board, among young people more espe-
cially. The humblest home on a piece of
land of one’s own is preferable. Let the
little children have the solid earth under
their feet, instead of hardwood floors, they
will enjoy life more and live longer.
	The counsel given by Brigham Young in
the early settlement of these mountain vales,
would be excellent to repeat at the present
time; he taught the real “simple life” by
precept and example. We hear some peo-
ple talk of the simple life as if it was a new
idea, we “Mormons” had the simple life
in fact and in sober earnest. Not that
one would like to go through all those
experiences again, but better even that in
the way of dress and of food, than some
of the hideous fashions of the day; and the
elaborate cookery.

	And now a word to the sisters about sav-
ing grain, the outlook at the present is not
very hopeful as regards the supply of bread-
stuffs for future need. The “Mormon”
women are the only womne who have grain
stored against a time of need, and it is quite


necessary that they should be on the watch
to protect that which is stored; and to re-
plenish their granaries, for should there
really be a lack of breadstuff, the money in
the bank would not help them.
	It is a long time now since the counsel
was given, and doubtless some have grown
weary of taking care of the wheat stored,
but surely all rejoice that so far there has
not been such great necessity for its being
disbursed, yet to be prepared for such an
emergency must be a satisfaction in itself.
And after all the grain on hand would not
be sufficient to feed a great army of hungry
people. To have granaries full of wheat is
something women-need never be ashamed
of, and if in a good state of preservation it
is certainly commendable for any commun-
ity, and quite a remarkable undertaking
for women, yet quite in keeping with a
charitable society organized for benevolent
purposes. And it is a sacred duty and obli-
gation to keep it against a time of scarcity
and famine.
	It is a step in a direction never under-
taken by women before in any period of the
world, and as the counsel came from Presi-
dent Brigham Young, prophet, seer and rev-
elator, there is every reason to believe that
he foresaw the wisdom of such a movement,
in order to keep a supply of grain on hand
for any emergency that might arise, that the
children might not cry for bread as in the
time of the grasshopper devastation. The
fact of taking care of the grain stored cannot
be emphasized too much.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	At the handsome residence of Mr. and
Mrs. Ovando Beebe, Wednesday, March 24,
1909, a delightful afternoon party was given
in honor of Mrs. Beebe’s mother Sister Em-
ma S. Woodruff, whose birthday occurs
March 1st, but as that is also the anniver-
sary of the late President Wilford Woodruff’s
birthday and is generally celebrated by all
his numerous posterity, it is only fitting that
Sister Emma should have a select party of
her own intimate friends. It was the real
birthday of Sister Amelia McDonald and she
was a guest of honor with sister Woodruff.
After an hour or two spent in greeting and
congratulations the guests were called to the
spacious dining room, where two long tables
were set with elegant china service and cut
glass, each table for twenty persons;
beautiful flowers in profusion shed sweet
fragrance, but best of all were the dear faces
of old-time friends, and the hum of happy
voices made time fly swiftly. At each plate
a card with name and motto.
	Sisters Woodruff and McDonald were
seated side by side at the head of one of the
tables, and it is needless to add that they
were beautifully dressed.
	The menu was perfect in all its details,
and served by charming young girls which
added zest to the enjoyment of the delicious
repast. Toasts were given by some of the
ladies present to which the two guests of
honor responded in a few choice words. In
fact the affair might well be termed a festive
occasion, and one long to be remembered
for its good cheer and harmony of fellow-
ship.
	These social gatherings are essentially
restful to women who lead busy lives. Mrs.
Beebe is to be congratulated on the brilliant
success of the entertainment, and certainly
the ladies will agree that she is a charming
hostess.


SOCIAL HALL PARTIES.
	The Genealogical Society gave an unique
entertainment in the Social Hall in honor
of the home coming of President Joseph F.
Smith and party after the visit to the Sand-
which Islands and to the descendants of the
founders of the Church.
	Supper was served in the dining room
three tables the entire length of the room
being filled with guests and served by the
members of the Society to every variety of
delicacies to satisfy the most fastidious Epi-
curean.
	The surprise however was in giving on a
screen of canvass arranged on the platform
pictures in Church history, commencing with
the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and showing the progress of the work in its
advancement from place to place, and year
to year. It was distinctively original in its
presentation and its delineation, on the can-
vass. Sister Susa Young Gates herself made
suitable explanations as the pictures were
changed, which made it easy for the un-
initiated to comprehend all the details of
the progress of the proceedings. Toward the
close when Nauvoo was given President Jos-
eph F. Smith gave briefly interesting remi-
niscences of those days and his childish re-
collections of some soul-stirring events that
transpired.
	Sister Gates like her illustrious father
Brigham Young has a fertile brain.

	The Genealogical Society gave a party
Thursday eyening, April 8th, in honor of the
veterans of the famous Zion’s camp that went
up to Missouri in 1834, leaving Kirtland in
the month of April; the Prophet Joseph
Smith being in charge of the company con-
sisting of over one hundred and fifty able-
bodied men with twenty baggage wagons.
History has recorded this remarkable journey
made on foot in that early day. Of all those
who went forth at that time young and vig-
orous only one man (so far as known) sur-
vives today, Brother Nathan Tanner now
ninety-four years of age, on his birthday
May 14, 1909. Brother Tanner’s daughter
came with her venerable father and her hus-
band, Hon. F. S. Richards, to the party.
	This veteran survivor attended the party
in the Social Hall and spoke to the people
giving briefly some salient points of the re-
markable journey being commemorated.
	Elder W. W. Riter made some explana-
tions, in regard to that remote but interest-
ing period when the Church was in its infancy.
It is well that the younger members of the
Church should know from living witnesses
some of the struggles of the early days in
the establishing of this great work which has
grown to such large proportions. Brother
Tanner cannot have too much honor for the
part he has taken not only in Zion’s camp
but in pioneering in this Western country.
	He was ploughing in the field when he
was called to go up to Missouri a lad nine-
teen years of age. It was a sort of perilous
undertaking. Looking back upon it Brother
Tanner must feel a great satisfaction in re-
calling his intimate association with the
great Prophet of this last dispensation.
	There was good music and dancing and
the evening was enjoyable because of re-
miniscences and greetings of old friends and
acquaintances, even for those who did not
dance.


SISTERS BADGER AND NUTTALL.
	It seems rather a remarkable coincidence
that Sisters Annie Taylor Hyde and Sophia
Taylor Nuttall both of one family should de-
part this life so near to each other one on 
March 12 and the other March 20. Sister
Harriet Ann Taylor Badger another sister 
only five months previous.
	Both Sister Badger and Sister Nuttall had
been missionaries in the General Relief So-
ciety for some years and faithful in perform-
ing service whenever called to go out among
the sisters.
	Sister Hyde as is well known was Counse-
lor to the President of the General Society
so all these sisters had been associated in
this important work.
	Sister Nuttall had visited some of the far-
away Stakes Alberta and Taylor in Canada,
and quite a number of others North and
South; she was full of zeal and was humble
in spirit, and gentle in manner, always had
a smile and kind word for her friends.
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of the
Seventeenth ward held Tuesday, January 19,
1909, at the residence of Brother and Sister
Andrew Jenson Sister Nuttall bore her testi-
mony to the Gospel, and gave some good in-
structions to the sisters she testified of the
goodness of God in raising her from a bed
of sickness; and those who saw her on that
occasion felt she would live to go among
the people again, and labor in the Society
as heretofore. We had no idea then we
should never hear or see her in this life but
this was her last public message to the sis-
ters, though we knew it not.
	The meeting was a reunion and birthday
party as well in honor of Sister Fanny T.
Howell an English sister the mother of Sis-
ters Andrew Jenson, who was 80 years of
age on that day and also Sister Abbie
H. Cowley’s birthday who was present.
It was a sort of banquet, and geniality
and congratulations which made it a very
happy occasion. Sister Nuttall participated
in it and enjoyed the affair seemingly as
much as the others. Thus it is in the midst
of life, we know not who may be called next.
There was very good music also; solo sing-
and recitations, and General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith spoke feelingly of the ward 
where she had for Borne time been President
of that Society and mentioned some of those
associated with her in the work who had
since passed away, spoke in praise of Sister
Marinda N. Hyde an intimate friend and
neighbor the former President; it was a very
interesting meeting and a good spirit, many
excellent things were said worthy of record
and remembrance.
	Sister Sophia T. Nuttall’s funeral was held
in the Seventeenth Ward Chapel on Tues-
day, March 23, Bishop F. S. Tingey in
charge. The speakers were Elder Matthias
Cowley, President John R. Winder and Pre-
sident Anthon H. Lund, also the Bishop; all
testified of the excellent traits of character
of the deceased; her beautiful motherhood,
her devotion as a wife, and particularly as a
neighbor and friend.
	There were many lovely floral offerings
and the hall was tastefully draped in white,
fitting emblem of purity. The Relief Society
sisters in the big Utah with a profusion of
flowers occupied a suitable place in the pro-
cession that followed the remains of the de-
parted to the grave.
	May our Heavenly Father comfort and
console the orphan children who are left
fatherless and motherless, and may they fol-
low in the footsteps of their honored father
and mother Brother and Sister Nuttall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Thursday afternoon, February 26, the Au-
thor’s Club gave a reunion and banquet in
the spacious hall of the Lion House. This
club is one of the most popular in Utah and
the members are almost all University
graduates. On this occasion although visi-
tors are not usually admitted there were two
guests Aunt Emm. Wells and Mrs. Preston
J. Cannon, the members were nearly all
present, the hall was artistically decorated,
the club colors red and sage green being
carried out, making the room very pictur-
esque. There were twenty at table each
lady having a place card and the President
Mrs. Harriet B. Harker the hostess in a very
gracious manner gave the fullest liberty to
each one present. Mrs. Augusta W. Grant
was toast-mistress and wit and humor pre-
vailed freely. There were a few piano selec-
tions rendered and one or two songs, but so-
cial chat predominated.
	Monday, March first, some of the members
of the General Board of the Relief Society
came as a sort of surprise to the headquarters,
to spend an hour or two as a reminder of
Aunt Emm.’s birthday and the plain simple
refreshments and dainty flowers were very
much appreciated and pleasing; but the
faces of dear friends on these annual oc-
casions are always like golden milestones
along the way of the years. A miniature
bank filled with silver was presented with a
very graceful speech by Sister Carrie S.
Thomas in behalf of the Board. There are
no fitting words in which to properly
acknowledge these honors therefore one is at
the mercy of one’s friends when favors are
bestowed in such unobtrusive ways.
	The U. W. P. C. and Reapers’ Social gave
a party in honor of Aunt Em., March 12, at
the elegant new home of the President, Mrs.
J. Q. Critchlow; about forty ladies were as-
sembled and there were original poems read
and selections from Musings and Memories
(Mrs. Wells book of verses) and the lady
was presented with a handsome opera cloak;
Mrs. Maria Francis speaking eloquently for
the donors. The affair was a very happy
one and the literary numbers were very ap-
propriate also the kind words and affectionate
sentiments.
	What can one say to one’s friends for the
many blessings, benefits and favors bestowed,
only—“This is the message that ye heard
froni the beginning, that we should love one
another.” 1 John 3: 2.


[Column 1]
	CELEBRATION PORTLAND RELIEF
			SOCIETY.
Sixty-seventh anniversary of the organization
	of the Relief Society celebrated in
		Portland, Oregon.
	At five o’clock in the afternoon of the 17th
inst. the Relief Society met in the Latter-
day Saints’ Church and held a most inter-
esting meeting presided over by Relief So-
ciety President Sister Sarah M. Pratt.
	After the preliminary exercises Sister Pratt
made some opening remarks explaining why
we celebrate that day throughout the Relief
Society of the Church. She said that it
was because the first organization of this
society wss brought about by Joseph Smith,
the Prophet sixty-seven years ago today and
was the very first woman’s society ever or-
ganized for public work, in the United States
or the world. She bade the sisters welcome
and rejoiced at their presence. She also bade
President Pratt welcome as he had met with
them upon this occasion.

[Column 2]
	The hymns sung in the opening exercises,
were “Praise to the Man Who Communed
with Jehovah” and “We Thank Thee Oh!
God for a Prophet.”
	Sister Pratt read a communication from
General President of the Relief Society,
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and General
Secretary Emmeline B. Wells.
	Sketches from the lives of the various Re-
lief Society Presidents, Secretaries and other
officers, had been prepared with great care,
and were listened to with profound enjoy-
ment as they were read before the Society.
One especially interesting a historical sketch
of Sister Peter Whitmer at whose house the
plates were being translated, which necessi-
tated the taking care of and the cooking for
Joseph Smith the Prophet, his wife Emma
and Oliver Cowdery, making her work very
laborious, and adding additional burdens to
her already heavy load, which had begun to
discourge her somewhat. In order that she
might be comforted and strengthened for the
additional burdens, the Angel Moroni met
her and exhibited to her the plates contain-
ing the Nephite record, and turned the leaves
over, one by one, before her eyes and bore
witness that the translation of these records
was the work of God, such consolation and
strength were given to her by this glorious
manifestation that she went about her work
cheerfully during the time that the visitors
remained at her house.
	In this manner and with some very happy
and consoling remarks from President Pratt
the afternoon and early evening were spent.
	As a continuation of this celebration the
Saints of the whole ward met together about
seven thirty in the evening. After partaking
of refreshments prepared by various sisters
of the society the choir again rendered the
hymn “Praise to the Man who Communed
with Jehovah” and after the opening prayer,
three members of the choir and their leader
Elder John E. Evans rendered in the most
pleasing manner the quartett “Come where
the Lilies Bloom;” then an address of wel-
come by the President of the Relief Society,
after which songs, recitations and readings
followed each other in quick succession,
most of these pieces were sacred, one of them
being entitled “The Assassination of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith” by Eliza R. Snow; read
by President Pratt.
	To make a final climax to the enjoyment
of the evening a comedy in one act entitled
“Obstinacy” was most creditably performed
by six young people of the ward, trained
under the supervision of Elder John E.
Evans.
	Our Church was well filled and this cele-
bration was generally voted a grand success
by those who were present.
			SADIE M. Pratt, President,
			IDA DAY, Secretary.


17th OF MARCH ANNIVERSARY.
	The seventeenth of March was a bright
and sunny day, in our Dixie land. The Re-
lief Society of the East and West St. George
wards assembled at 3 o’clock in the Lyceum
to celebrate the day, on which, 67 years ago
the work was begun, which has since played
so important apart in the lives of the women
of Zion.
	The meeting was presided over by Presi-
dent Esther Whitehead of the West St.
George ward.
	After the opening exercises Sister Ann C.
Woodbury gave a short talk on the early or-
ganizations of the society, after which Stake


Counselor Aggie Windsor sang, “Daughters
of Zion,” composed by Sister Annie Wells
Cannon. Two pieces were read giving inter-
esting items on the first organization and
short talks were given by Sisters Emma
Morris and Stake Counselor Elida Snow,
interspersed with some very sweet songs.
	A good spirit prevailed and the sisters felt
encouraged to press forward with renewed
energy in the good cause, for it certainly is
a glorious work in which we are engaged.
	The only thing to be regreted was the ab-
sence of the Stake President Cornelia Brooks,
who was unable to attend on account of
sickness.		LEONORA WORTHEN, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	At the annual meeting of the Relief Society of
the Parker ward, Idaho, March 17th, 1909 the fol-
lowing resolutions were unanimously passed:
	Whereas, the eternal Father has seen fit in His
infinite wisdom, to call to himself our beloved
Sister Juliet Rice.
	Be it resolved, that the members of this Society,
sincerely mourn the loss of their cheerful co-
laborer, and faithful associate in the cause of hu-
man aid and fellowship.
	Also be it resolved, that a copy of these resolu-
tions be sent to the bereaved family. A copy
furnished the Woman’s Exponent, for publication,
and they be entered upon the secretary’s record
of the Parker Relief Society.
	As cheering as the sun’s bright ray,
		She shed her light upon our way,
	Her genial presence cheered our gloom
		As dewy roses waft perfums
	Dear friend, fond mother, faithful wife,
		Fit subject for eternal life!
								COM.


OBITUARY.
	Sister Ellison Gourley departed this life, Febru-
ary 13, 1909, after an illness of two weeks. Aged
76 years.
	She was born at Garco, Lanarkshire, Scotland.
At the age of 19 years she married Elder Paul
Gourley a widower with 5 children.
	She emigrated to Utah in 1856, coming with the
last hand cart company arriving in Salt Lake
City, about the 1st of December. The reason she
came with the last company, her husband being
a cartwright stopped back on the Iowa camp
ground making carts for the rest of the people.
She was in Captain Larkins company. She suf-
fered much on the plains being ill almost all the
way. She had two children of her own, one of
which died on the plains; and the other after she
arrived in Salt Lake City. She lived in the 11th
ward of Salt Lake City until she moved to Goshen
in 1858 with her husband and family.
	She was one of the most prominent women of
the Goshen ward, being a teacher in the Sunday
School from its first organization and a member
of the choir, and was counselor in the Relief So-
ciety for many years.
	She has been a widow for 19 years, has lived
alone during that time, the children of her hus-
band all being married.
	She visited the sick of all classes and did much
good in caring for the same and helping the needy,
and dressing the dead.
	She was a very sweet singer and loved to sing
the Songs of Zion until her death. While she was
lying on her deathbed she sang some of the hymns
and she seemed to enjoy doing so.
	She was beloved by many, many people for her
cheerful disposition, generous heart, her kind
acts, and good deeds.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas—Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister
	Therefore—be it resolved by the members of
Goshen Relief Society that we will cherish her
memory and emulate her good deeds, and re-
member her sweet smiling face and cheerful dis-
position.
	Resolved that we spread upon the record of the
Relief Society these resolutions and send a copy
to the Woman’s Exponent for publication.
	Rest in peace our dear kind sister,
		We will miss her from our ward.
	She proved faithful to the gospel,
		And has gone to her reward.
						Annie M. Lichfield,
						Lucy P. Taylor, 
								Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.
	Sister Sophia T. Nuttall, daughter of the
late President John Taylor and wife of the
late L. John Nuttall departed this life March
20th, 1909, at her home on West Temple
Street. She was ill for several months dur-
ing which time she was patient and long
suffering, always expressing a desire to live
for her children and to finish her work on
earth acceptably to her Father in Heaven,
yet she would say, “I am ready if the call
comes.”
	Sister Nuttall was born July 14th, 1849,
in Salt Lake City. She left three children
to follow in her footsteps, William Taylor
Nuttall, Mrs. Geo. B. Andrus and Mary Tay-
lor Nuttall.
	Her passing away was like falling into a
peaceful sleep which was her faith it would
be, as in a recent Patriarchal Blessing she
was told she should not taste of death, but
her spirit should take its flight as a babe
falling into a quiet slumber.
	By her death the 17th Ward Relief Society
sincerely feel that they have lost a wise
counselor, an experienced instructor, a faith-
ful worker and trusted friend. For such she
was, having for the foundation of her life’s
work the spirit of the Gospel of Christ ob-
tained by a life of sacrifice and devotion to
the principles of the Gospel in the possession
of which success is sure. She was the oldest
worker in the society, having served as coun-
selor to Sister Bathsheba W. Smith as early
as the year 1894. Afterwards laboring as
Sister Clarissa Williams’ counselor for seven
years and in her last days she was counselor
to Sister Fidelia Jacobs.
	The long and loving associations with her
have endeared her to the society, which will
remain with them until it is renewed in the
life to come.		ABBIE H. COWLEY.
	In behalf of the 17th Ward Relief Society.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	The first Relief Society conference of the
Bear River stake of Zion, convened at the
Garland hall, Friday, January 8th, at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m.
	There were present Stake President Milton
H. Welling, Counselor P. M. Hansen, four
members of the High Council, two bishops,
Clarissa S. Williams and Rebecca Nibley of
the General Relief Society Board, President
Susannah P. Booth and Mary J. Harding
of the Box Elder stake Relief Society and
President Caroline E. Facer of the Malad
stake Relief Society, the Bear River stake
Presidency and members of the board.
	President Julia A. Richards presided.
After the opening exercises, reports were
given by the presidents of the ward organiza-
tions, who expressed themselves as deeply
interested in the Relief Society work.
	President Richards reported the visits of
herself aud associates to all the wards of the
Stake, which were found to be in a live, ac-
tive condition.
	President Susannah P. Booth bore her
testimony to the great good of the benevolent
cause and was thankful to be a worker in
the same.
	Instrumental solo—Miss Lera Clark.
	Vocal solo—Mrs. Mary E. Wanlass.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams had enjoyed
the reports and felt that as a new stake we
were much favored. Gave words of instruc-
tion and encouragement to the sisters.
	During the noon hour delicious refresh-
ments were served.


At the afternoon session the same presid-
ing authorities were present and there was a
large attendance of members. The roll call
showed all the wards represented.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley spoke of the neces-
sity of us sustaining prohibition and urged
that mothers and wives use their influence
in helping loved ones to abstain from intoxi-
cants, etc.
	Solo—“Daughters of Zion”—Sister Essie
Foulger.
	Sisters Caroline E. Facer and Marv J.
Harding, each made a few remarks relating
to Relief Society work.
	President Milton H. Welling spoke of his
appreciation of the Relief Society work and
gave good counsel and advice to the sisters
present.
	Sister Clarissa Williams spoke of the duty
of one toward another, Said, “It is for us to
do all we can for our Father’s children. We
should live near each other, love each other
and be kind and attentive to all even the
non-Mormons who may be in our midst.
Extended the love and blessing of President
Bathsheba Smith to the sisters of the new
Bear River stake.
	Sister Nibley then called for a vote of all
those who would sustain prohibition. The
vote was unanimous.
	President Julia A. Richards expressed her
pleasure at having had such a successful
conference and felt that we had received
much that would encourage us in our duties.
	Prayer—Sister Eva Wilcox.
				MARGARET W. MANNING,
								Secretary.


NINETEENTH WARD HALL.
	The Relief Society of the 19th wa[-]d of the
Salt Lake stake of Zion, completed a hall
for their use for meetings, also for sewing,
and socials, etc., on February 1st, 1909.
	The building contains a front rooms 20x20
feet, and a kitchen, pantry, toilet, coal bin,
tables and cupboards, all under one roof.
	The building cost, including plumbing,
wireing and fixtures ($2,031.25) two thou-
sand thirty-one dollars and twenty-five cents.
The Society still owe about $600.00.
	At the opening, on February 25th, 1909,
72 people called in the afternoon, 107 in the
evening and 75 children on the following
afternoon. A program was rendered and re-
freshments were served.
	Among those present were three members
of the High Council, also Sisters H. B. Harker,
C. S. Williams, E. B. Wells, the Bishop and
Counselors, Pres, of Young Ladies Associa-
tion, Pres. Primary Association, Pres. Re-
ligion Class, and nearly every organization
of the ward was represented.
	It was a very enjoyable time, exercises
well rendered and good music.
				AGNES G. BRANCH,
							Secretary.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw sailed on April 10
for London, to attend the meeting of the
nternational Suffrage Alliance. Miss Lucy
E. Anthony and Miss Caroline Crossett ac-
companied her.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Madame Sarah Grand is to deliver an ad-
dress of welcome at the International Suf-
rage Convention in London.
	Olive Schreiner is about to bring out a
book entitled “Closer Union for South Afri-
ca.” It deals with the political situation.
	Mrs. Fanny Friedman has just did at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. Bertha Burger,
244 East 85th street, New York City, aged
112 years and three months.
	“Miss Ethel L. Arnold says she hopes the
American public “will not be misled by the
lying newspaper reports which represent the
suffragettes as biting, kicking and scratch-
ing the London police.” Evidently some
English journals are as “yellow” as any in 
this country.”
	Over 1,000 representative women from 26
counties of New York State appeared be-
fore the judiciary committee of both Houses
of the Legislature at Albany in behalf of the
amendment striking the word “male” from
the suffrage clause of the State Constitu-
tion.
	Josiah Taft, grandson of Robert Taft, the
immigrant who settled in Uxbridge, Mass.,
in 1680, was at his death the largest tax-
payer in Uxbridge.
	The town meeting granted his widow the
right of suffrage during her son’s minority.
She exercised it creditably to her intellig-
ence.
	On one occasion, the Province of Mas-
sachusetts Bay made a special demand upon
the towns for money (possibly for some
military emergency), and it was the widow
Taft’s vote in town meeting which carried
the question,—her patriotism being shown
by her support of the measure.
		Ex.					C.A.B.
	The 41st Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association will
be held in Seattle, Wash., July 1 to 7 in-
clusive.
	This marvelous city of the Pacific Coast
in twenty years has multiplied its popula-
tion twenty times, increasing from 15,000 to
300,000, a growth unparalleled in the his-
tory of cities. To those who have had the
opportunity of visiting it, howeyer, this
growth is not wonderful, considering its ad-
vantages in relation to ocean transportation,
its commercial possibilities, both local and
foreign, and over and beyond everything
else, its unrivalled scenic beauty.
	The members and friends of the conven-
tion will go to Seattle in a special train from
Chicago, with through sleepers, and upon
arrival at Spokane, the eastern boundary of
the State, we shall be met by “The Woman
Suffrage Special,” and escorted to Seattle,
stopping en route at Pasco, North Yakima
and Tacoma, each city vieing with the other
in extending courtesies and entertainments.
	On account of the Alaska Yukon Exposi-
tion, the exceedingly low rate of $62 for the
round trip has been authorized from Chica-
go, with return until Oct. 31.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
						67-69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES' READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

