Vol. 37.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1909.						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
										PAGE
President Bathsheba W. Smith. . . . . . . E. B. W.	57
The Statue of Queen Louise. . . Lydia D. Alder	58
International Council Quinquennial. . . . . . . . . .
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lillian M. Hollister	59
An Important Gathering of Women. . . . . . . . . . 
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C. W. Penrose	60
Incidents in the Life of Lydia Pond Rich. . . . . . 
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . Lydia Rich	61
Obituaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	62
In Memoriam of Mabel Ann Hakes. . . . . . . . . .	52
In Memoriam of Anna Kleinmann. . . . . . . . . . .	62
Relief Society Stake Reports: Uintah—Nebo
	—Teton—Alpine. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	63
Julia Ward Howe Post Card. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
Mrs. Howe at 90. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
A Vietory in Switzerland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
The International Suffrage Song. . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
Notes and News. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	64
Editorial:—Old Memories. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60
	One More in Heaven. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60
	Editorial Note. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	60
Poetry:—Growing Old Gracefully. . . . Selected	57
	The Little Stranger. . . . . . . . Maud Russell	59


GROWING OLD GRACEFULLY
Softly and softly, the years have swept by thee,
	Touching thee lightly with tenderest care;
Sorrow and care did they often bring nigh thee,
	Yet they have left thee but beauty to wear;
		Growing old cheerfully,
			Graceful and fair.
Far from the storms that are washing the ocean
	Nearer each day to the pleasant home light,
Far from the waves that are big with commotion;
	Under full sail and the harbor in sight!
		Growing old cheerfully,
			Cheerful and bright.
Past all the winds that were adverse and chilling,
	Past all the islands that lured thee to rest,
Past all the currents that wooed thee unwilling,
	Far from the port of the land of the blest;
		Growing old peacefully,
			Peaceful and blest.
Never a feeling of envy and sorrow,
	Where the bright faces of childhood are seen,
Never a year from their youth wouldst thou bor-
		row,
	Thou dost remember what liest between;
			Growing old willingly,
				Gladly I ween.
Rich in experience that angels might covet,
	Rich in a faith that has grown with thy years,
Rich in a love that grew from above it,
	Soothing thy sorrows and hushing thy fears;
		Growing old wealthily,
			Loving and dear.
Hearts at the sound of thy coming are lightened,
	Ready and willing thy hand to relieve;
Many a face at thy kind words has brightened;
	It is more blessed to give than receive.
		Growing old happily,
			Blest we believe,
								Selected.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
HER BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	“Growing old gracefully” may well be
applied to our President of the Relief Socie-
ty, there is not time or space to tell all the
reasons why this saying is applicable, but if
one looks at her as she mingles in society or
as she moves about in her own home, and
more especially in the Temple, one cannot
but feel that she is a good illustration of the
poem given above.

[Column 2]
	Among the Latter-day Saint women, who 
are a connecting link between the past and
the present, from the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith down to our own time, but
few remain. Foremost of the illustrious few,
we are proud and happy to mention Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, whose birthday anni-
versary was recently celebrated with appro-
priate honors and the respect befitting her po-
sition as a Mother in Israel; one indeed, who
has ministered scores of years in holy places,
and officiated in sacred ordinances, to many
hundreds of the Daughters of Zion.
	Sister Smith holds the position of General
President of the Relief Society of the Church,
an organization founded by President Joseph
Smith himself sixty-seven years ago in the
city of Nauvoo—Illinois, (she became a 
member on the first day) and which Society
 has reached out into all countries where the
Gospel tidings have been carried and women
converted thereto.
	Through the systematic correllation of its
branches, women have been able to regulate
the principle of giving charity, and doing ac-
tive philanthropic work for the betterment
and uplifting of all the members of this So-
ciety everywhere and for others outside; re-
lieving both temporal and spiritual needs in
an unobtrusive and dignified way, and pro-
moting moral and educational progress
among those whose opportunities had been
limited, along these lines of advancement;
often owing to their surroundings and en-
vironments.
	Sister Smith has not only been at the head
of great public movements and benefits, both
presiding and assisting in managing, but she
has always been a delightful home-maker;
industrious, an early riser, economical, thrifty
even resourceful; and in the best sense
motherly.
	Her life has not been free from thorns and
briers, yet it has really been very beautiful
in many ways, and she has borne herself
heroically, when tried as by fire, and her 
faith has never wavered.
	Her illustrious husband Hon. George A.
Smith, cousin of the Prophet, and one of the 
most distinguished men in the Church, died 
over thirty years ago.
	A few years after his demise she built a
smaller home near the Temple and has re-
sided there permanently ever since.
	Although it is not a large or “stately man-
sion” she entertains her friends hospitably
and with the most cordial good cheer, for
she is a Southerner to the heart’s core, and
proud of her dear old Virginia birthplace.
	She has always cultivated flowers and her
neat, white cottage with green shutters, and
yard with its lilacs, roses, trailing myrtle,
holly-hocks, lackspur and other old-fashioned
flowering plants and shrubs are the admira-
tion of her friends, and the passers by, and
give a sort of tone to the dwelling place in-
dicative of peace and restfulness.
	However we are not giving our readers a
descriptive narrative or a story of this famous
woman, who has lived as long, and seen
so much, and associated with so many great
men and women, but only wish to tell about 
her eighty-seventh birthday anniversary.
	The lady in question gave a reception at

[Column 3]
her residence on Monday, May 3, 1909, from
2 p. m. to 8 p. m. to which she invited her
relatives, friends and co-workers. The parlor
and other rooms were artistically decorated
with flowers and ferns etc., festooned with
ribbons as for a bride; pretty vases and
bowls were filled with fragrant blossoms,
tastefully arranged, and all was done in the
most perfect harmony of color.
	Sister Smith wore with becoming grace,
an elegant, white, homemade silk dress,
with exquisite fine lace at the neck and 
wrists, and a very fine white lace scarf over
her beautiful soft white hair; altogether she
presented a queenly appearance, as she sat
in state, to receive her guests. She was as-
sisted in receiving by her only daughter Mrs.
Clarence E. Merrill, and Mrs. Susan E. Smith;
her charming and attractive grand-daughters
Mrs. David Allen, Mrs. George A. Horne,
Mrs. Ben. E. Lloyd, Mrs. Joseph Fisher,
Mrs. Stephen L. Richards, courteously meet-
ing the guests doing the honors and deftly
dispensing light refreshments to the nume-
rous callers, who came to offer congratula-
tions to the reverend hostess, on this auspi-
cious occasion; and to wish her continued
health, happiness, prosperity and future use-
fulness, and activity, as long as life seemed
desirable to her. Many of her friends brought
bouquets, pretty books and a variety of gifts,
remembrances, and messages, tokens of love
and esteem.
	During the entire afternoon until eight
o’clock in the evening Sister Smith was
shaking hands and greeting her guests, in
the most kindly and gracious way.
	Among the distinguished callers were Pre-
sident Joseph F. Smith, President John R.
Winder (who is near the same age as the 
lady herself) and President Anthon H. Lund,
also the venerable Patriarch John Smith,
and other notable people from far and near,
about two hundred in all, and every one 
seemed delighted to show honor and rever-
ence to the beloved woman leader.
	During the day a telegram of loving con-
gratulations and good wishes was received
from Los Angeles, California, signed John
Henry Smith, George Albert Smith, John and
Lucy Smith Acomb.
	The following day the General Board of
the Relief Society, according to a previous
arrangement, gave a sort of informal
but most delightful banquet at the home of
their president at three o’clock Tuesday,
May 4, 1909.
	A competent committee had the affair in
hand, to whom much credit is due for its
enjoyment and success. Consent of the
hostess having been given, the committee
took possession inside the cottage, and
made the needful preparations. Thereupon
the other members of the Board were re-
lieved of anxiety. The President, in her
pretty white costume, received all the mem-
bers with her sweetest smiles, and cordially
welcomed them to the home they had in-
vaded. The table looked very inviting with
its snowy linen napery, and elegant old-
fashioned china dinner-set and other rare
old plates; platters, bowls, etc., of antique
style, but the most interesting of all was the
President herself the Guest of Honor.


[Column 1]
	Everything had been done beforehand
with a view to sociability, and seated at
the head of the table was the reverend lady
we had gathered to honor while partaking
of the feast. On her right her counselor
Ida Smoot Dusenberry was seated, and
next to her, Sister Julina L. Smith, and on
the other side the secretary, Sister Emmeline
B. Wells, and next to her Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, the treasurer. Other members of
the Board present were Sisters Sarah Jenne
Cannon, Susan Grant, Emma S. Woodruff,
Emily S. Richards, Priscilla P. Jennings,
Phebe Y. Beatie, Alice M. Horne, Annie W.
Cannon, Minnie H. James, Elizabeth S. Wil-
cox, Rebecca Nibley, and Harriet B. Harker.
Rebecca E. Little, who had been seriously
ill for a long time, was at the banquet ac-
companied by her intimate associate and
friend Sister Elizabeth Crismon.
	It is scarcely possible to enumerate the
good things prepared for the delectation of
the sisters of the party, but if one dared tell
who this efficientc ommittee were, the secret
would be made public for the ladies are
famous in giving entertainments. The table
fairly groaned with the weight of the feast—
the roast beef looked very tempting and all
the vegetables of the season served in the
most appetizing style and all the condi-
ments that go with a dinner, and famous
salads, and after these dainties and
delicacies and ice cream and cakes of great
variety, and fruit to set off the picture of the
table, and a birthday cake, the most deli-
cious that could be made, and candy and
nuts and grape juice to give zest to the
toasts.
	A blessing was pronounced by Sister B.
W. Smith upon the delicious menu, and the
feasting began, all were ready to converse
socially until the chairman of the committee
announced that toasts were expected, and
the ladies began to think what to say.
	Aunt Emm. Wells was given the task of
opening the subject and after congratulat-
ing the President and telling her how long
she had known her, etc., she asked Sister
Dusenberry to respond, and in a few well-
chosen words the lady gave a pretty senti-
ment in her delightful manner. Sister
Julina Smith came next and spoke most
tenderly and lovingly of her Aunt Bath-
sheba, and in fact there seemed in her mind
a little rivalry between herself and Aunt
Emm. Wells as to who loved Aunt Bath-
sheba the best, but that was rather more
amusing than serious, and naturally Sister
Julina is dearer, being her own sister’s
daughter and according to the old saying,
blood is thicker than water.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams could scarcely
speak when she recalled the first recollec-
tions of Aunt Bathsheba, associated as she
was in her mind with her own mother and
her dear father, her feelings almost over-
came her, but she choked down the sob fn
her throat and spoke eloquently of those
dearest memories of her childhood, and
closed with some beautiful lines from Long-
fellow’s poem; “THE GOLDEN MILESTONE.”
Each man’s chimney is his milestone,
Is the central point from which he measures
		Every distance
Through the gateway of the world around him.
We may build more splendid habitations
		But we cannot
Buy with gold the old associations.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff spoke of the
many years she had been acquainted with
Sister Smith and their very intimate associa-
tion in the temple, and in the work of the

[Column 2]
Relief Society, and of her great life work,
and congratulated her on her long life.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon who is al-
ways original as well as dignified, spoke
briefly of her life-long recollections of Aunt
Bathsheba and her nearness to her in the
Relief Society and Temple work.
	Sister Priscilla Jennings wished Sister
Smith all the blessings here and hereafter
that could be showered upon her to make
her life happy; rejoiced that she had been
so closely associated with her. Sister
Susan Grant, modest and demure, spoke
sweetly and tenderly of the past and present
in the finest words possible. Sister Emily
S. Richards alluded to the intimate assosia-
tion of the Richards family and Aunt Bath-
sheba, and could not recall the time when
she had not known her, and referred to Sis-
ter Jane S. Richards intimacy with Aunt
Bathsheba for so many years.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne was particular-
ly grateful to all who felt to honor her dear
grandmother, and spoke of her grandmoth-
er’s energy and perseverance being an incen-
tive to all, and the sisters were all grati-
fied with her kindly words and feelings so
beautifully and tenderly expressed.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon gave a few of
her childish recollections of the way she
used to scale the high stone wall that separ-
ated the Wells home from the Historian’s
office, when Uncle George A. (as the chil-
ren called him) sat on the porch in his old
arm chair, and referred to the great rever-
ence she felt for him and Uncle Brigham
and her own father, associating them to-
gether as educators and benefactors, and her
great love for Aunt Bathsheba, which she
could give more fully, she thought, in some
lines which she quoted:
	“I would flood your life with sunshine,
		I would fence you from all ill,
	I would crown you with all blessings
		If I could but have my will.
	Aye, but human love may err, dear,
		And a power all-wise is near,
	So I only say God bless you,
		And keep you through the year.”
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie spoke tenderly of
the love she had for Sister Smith, who al-
ways reminded her of her mother (Sister
Zina Young) and how all through her girl
life she had watched them so intimate in
every place, and it was gratifying to recall
scenes and associations of the earlier days.
	Sister Minnie H. James spoke of the inti-
macy of Sister Smith with her own dear de-
parted mother, Sister M. Isabella Horne, for
so many years, and referred to the beauti-
ful past as she recalled it to memory.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox had the same
tender spot in her heart concerning her own
mother, who was so closely associated with
Sister Smith. Sister Rebecsa Nibley begged
to be excused, but spoke a word or two in
appreciation of her friendship with our
President, Sister Hattie B. Harker felt the
honor it was to be with us and expressed
great kindness and love for our President.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke a few
precious words to us all, expressing her love
and kindly feeling and her good wishes to
all who had come to her home. She blessed
us and desired we should all keep the faith,
love our religion and keep the covenants we
had entered into sacred. She blest us with
the choicest of heaven’s blessings, peace,
prosperity and love, and hoped we should
all meet again and rejoice together and fesst
as we had today,
	It was indeed a happy day and the only
regret was that some of the members could

[Column 3]
not attend, especially Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, who at all great gatherings of this kind
has been one of the most active in assisting,
and Sister Romania B. Penrose, who is now
abroad, Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Sister Carrie S. Thomas who were unavoid-
ably detained at home.
	The General Board may be congratulated
on the success of the banquet, and if the
President felt happy, which we hope and
trust she did, and will remember the day
with pleasure and satisfaction, knowing she
has the love and reverence and devotion of
her coworkers.			E.B.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE STATUE OF QUEEN LOUISE.
	Within a shadowing sylvan retreat of the
Thiergarten, Berlin, is the statue of Queen
Louise, wife of Frederick William the Great,
whom he wedded in 1646. She was Louise
Henrietta of Oraniem, and history tells us
that in birth, spirit and character she was
the equal of her illustrious husband, to
whom she was a beloved counselor and com-
panion for twenty years.
	On Napoleon’s invasion of Germany, he
made dire threats against the peace of the
Queen, who fled, taking refuge in one of the
palaces on the river Havel, thus escaping
his wicked machinations. She won the love
of her people, and is the reverenced as the
“Pure Louise.” Beautiful of face and form,
she enchants all who gaze upon her, chiseled
there in stone.
	The lace of her robe, cut in the stone, re-
veals perfectly, its beautiful design. March
10th of each year, the anniversary of her
birth, sees a loyal admiring people, loading
her statue with flowers, piling them high,
before and around her in the white pave-
ment. Thus decorated, the writer beheld it,
in March 1905, with feelings difficult to de-
scribe.
			LOUISE.
	Forever of this realm a part,
		Thy memory is adored;
		Queen of thy warrior Lord,
	Thou livest in the nation’s heart.

	And here Louise, thy subjects meet—
		From thy high place above,
		Behold their gifts of love,
	Exhaling fragrance at thy feet.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.

		Frederick William the Great,
	Was born in 1620, and assumed the bur-
den of government at the age of twenty
years, reigning until 1688, as Elector Prince
of Germany.
	In June, 1675, he became victor over the
French King, Louis XIV, who had invaded
the land. At that time the title, “The Great
Elector Prince” was bestowed upon him, by
a grateful people. By this title he is known
in history.
	His statue, not nearly so pretentious or
large, as that of Queen Louise, is also situ-
ated among the dense shrubbery of the
Thiergarten, not far from that of his beloved
Queen, the Pure Louise.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


Suffrage for women is looking up in New
Mexico. Mrs. Ellen M. Bolles of Lumber-
ton, N. M., has undertaken to organize a
Territorial campaign committee, and has
succeeded in securing the co-operation of
fourteen newspapers, whose editors have
agreed to publish articles in advocacy of
the movement.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LITTLE STRANGER.

Whence comest Thou, Little Stranger?
I know thee not, nor have I sought
Thine acquaintanceship. Thy rare baby
Joy and gladness, with love full fraught,
Who gave it thee? And why shoulds’t be
Thine alone, inimitable,
Unpurchasable, to thee free,
Unsearchable by science grave?
What teaching or philosophy
Such wondrous sweetness to thee gave?

Who doth tell thee, Little Stranger,
The deepest secrets of the heart?
Wiser heads than thine have pondered
Yet ne’er discerned the smallest part.
Who hath made thee, cans’t thou tell me,
The wee instructor of my soul?
Great divines with power and pathos
Have failed to reach thy easy goal.

Who hath clothed thee, Little Stranger,
With such dainty, princely grace—
Grace of mind, and heart and action—
Thou flower mystery of the race?
Will it mar thy native beauty
When life’s hard lessons thou’rt taught,
Then will all thy innate sweetness
Fade away and come to naught?

Who hath given thee, Little Stranger,
Thy wealth of love, thy jewels rare
That shine on me, and where did’st get
Thy sunkissed crown of silken hair,
The like of which no king doth hold?
Riches thine that can’t be “cornered,”
Nor by the mighty be controlled.

Whence all these slaves, Little Stranger, 
That humbly serve thee night and day?
Were they captives in thy conquests,
Brought in chains from some fierce fray,
Who so meekly do thy bidding,
Hurrying at thy faintest call?
Or doth thy superior forces
into quick surrender, awe all
Those whom thy majesty may meet?
The world and I want information;
Thy method, prithee, we entreat.
					MAUD RUSSELL.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL QUINQUEN-
				NIAL.
	A notable gathering of women from all
over the world to be held in Toronto, Onta-
rio, June 15-29, 1909. The National Council
of Women of the United States one of the
twenty-three councils represented. Her Ex-
cellency, the Countess of Aberdeen, wife of
the Viceroy of Ireland, will be present.
	The women of America are now looking
forward to the coming of the Quinquennial
Session of the International Council of
Women, to be held in Toronto, Ontario,
Canada, June 15-29, of this year.
	Representative women from eyery part of
the world will be present at this session,
which will be one of the greatest gatherings
of women ever held on the Western Conti-
nent. These women are familiar with the
needs of their respective country, and can
give a breadth and outlook, attainable in
no other manner, thus, the immense value
of such a gathering may be readily seen.
	It is specifically understood that the Inter-
national Council is organized in the interest
of no one propaganda, and has no power
over its members beyond that of suggestion
and sympathy. Its purpose is to provide a
means of communication between women’s
organizations in all countries; also to provide
opportunities for women to meet together
from all parts of the world, to confer upon
questions relative to the welfare of the com-
monwealth, the family and the individual.
	Like most great movements, the Inter-
national Council of Women has been a de-
velopment. Its formation is due to Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss Susan B.

[Column 2]
Anthony, American women, who, after con-
sultation with friends in England and France,
decided to convene a representative as-
sembly of delegates from as many countries
as possible, this assembly to be held in
Washington, in 1888, to celebrate the for-
tieth anniversary of the “Woman’s Rights”
movement, and to consider the possibility
of organizing International and National
Councils of Women. As a result the Inter-
national Council was organized with Mrs.
Millicent Garrett Fawcett of England as its
first president, Miss Clara Barton, of the Red
Cross Society, vice-president, and Mrs.
Rachel Foster-Avery as corresponding Secre-
tary.
	At the same time, the National Council
of Women of the United States was formed,
with the late Miss Frances Willard as its
president.
	National Councils of Women have been
formed in the United States, Canada, Ger-
many, Sweden, Great Britain and Ireland,
New Zealand, New South Wales, Italy;
France, Holland, Denmark, Austria, Switzer-
land, Netherlands, Tasmania, Argentine,
Victoria, South Australia, Hungary, Nor-
way and Queensland.
	The general officers are as follows:
H. E. The Countess of Aberdeen, president,
		Vice Regal Lodge, Dublin, Ireland.
Frau Marie Stritt, 1st vice-president,
	Durerstrasse 110, Dresden, Germany.
Dru Anna Hierta-Retzius, 2nd vice-president,
	110 Drottninggatan, Stockholm, Sweden.
Madame Jules Siegfried, 3rd vice-president,
226 Boulevard Saint Germain, Paris, France.
Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, D. Sc., Ph. D., F. L.
		S., corresponding secretary,
	1 Rubislaw Terrace, Aberdeen, Scotland.
Miss Martina Kramers, Recording secretary,
	92 Kruiskade, Rotterdam, Netherlands,
Mrs. W. E. Sanford, Treasurer,
			Wesanford, Hamilton, Ontario.
	The Conveners of the International Com-
mittees are as follows:
Peace and Arbitration,
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall,
		201 N. Euclid Ave., Pasadena, Cal.
Laws Concerning the Legal Position of
	Women,
		Mme. D’Abbadie D’Arract,
				32 Rue Vanneau, Paris.
Suffrage and Rights of Citizenship,
	Rev. Anna Howard Shaw,
			Moylan, Pa., U. S. A.
White Slave Traffic and Equal Standard
	Morals,
		Mme. Avrll De Sainte-Croix,
1 Avenue Malakoff, Paris.
Press, 
	Mrs. Willoughby Cummings,
		44 Dewson St., Toronto, Ontario.
Finance,
	Frauelein Helene Lange,
		Gillstrasse 9, Grunewald, bei Berlin,
					Germany.
	The president and nine delegates from
each Nationai Council federated with the
International Council of Women, together
with the general officers and conveners of
standing committees, have the right to vote
at the Quinquennial Sessions.
	The President from the United States
Council is Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, of Ber-
kely, California; the Corresponding Secre-

[Column 3]
tary is Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, of Detroit,
Michigan, and the Treasurer, Mrs. H. Josie
Nelson, Union City, Indiana.
	Speakers of National reputation will be
heard at the various meetings, all of whom
will assist in making known to the general
public the magnitude and variety of woman’s
work for humanity.
	The International Council of Women has
for its President, Her Excellency, The Coun-
tess of Aberdeen, wife of the Viceroy of Ire-
land. The Countess of Aberdeen is noted
the world over for her philanthropy and for
her efforts to better the condition of women
less fortunately situated. Believing that all
children, no matter what their station in
life, should be taught some useful occupa-
tion, her son. Lord Haddo, was brought up
a practical farmer, while her daughters are
skilful housekeepers who can dispense with
their servants if need be, or face the rough
life of a colonist without any sense of griev-
ance. Although modest and unassuming,
her royal position is such that she travels in
state second only to that of King Edward
himself. Lady Aberdeen is at present per-
sonally engaged in a crusade against tuber-
culosis in Ireland.
	The Corresponding Secretary of the Inter-
national Council of Women is Mrs. Maria
M. Ogilvie Gordon, D. Sc., Ph. D., F. L. S.,
of Aberdeen, Scotland. Mrs. Gordon, who
is a cousin of Countess Aberdeen, was the
first woman to present an original work on
any natural science subject for the degree of
D. Sc. in London, and was also the first
woman to enter for the degree of Ph. D. at
Munich, which she won with the highest
honors. Mrs. Gordon has written several
books on science, and was among the first
group of scientific women admitted as Fel-
lows of the Linnaean Society of London.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Sanford, a woman of pro-
minence in Canada, is the Treasurer; Mrs.
Sanford has traveled extensively in the in-
terests of the Council of Women.
	Any person, whose name is accepted by
the Executive Committee and approved by
the Council of his own Nation where one
exists, may become a life patron of this
Council upon the payment of $200; or may
become a quinquennial contributor upon the
payment of $25.00 within the quinquennial
period.
	Every member of every society, belonging
to a federated National Council is a member
of the International Council, and can attend
and take part in the discussion at its meet-
ings.
	The influence of the International Council
can at present be best traced through the
results of the work of the National Councils,
which it has been the means of forming.
	These Councils can show proof of having
been instrumental in breaking down preju-
dices, and in promoting mutual understand-
ing and charity between adherents of es-
sentially different faiths, races, parties, and
also providing a pivot round which all who
desire to labor for the good of humanity,
may unite for the common cause; they have
also collected and spread correct information
concerning woman’s work, and created a
center which will prove a rallying point for
women, who, in all countries, desire to live
for others and leave the world better than
they found it.
	Issued from the office of,
		MRS. LILLIAN M. HOLLISTER,
			Chairman, Press Committee,
			National Council of Women,
				Detroit, Michigan.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-		MAY, 1909.


[Column 1]
			OLD MEMORIES.
	To those who came here in the early days,
and have seen comparatively all the houses
in Salt Lake City built, and have been fam-
iliar with the old-time places and their oc-
cupants and in a way known their history,
to watch great changes made, even in the
way of progress, awakens many recollections
of a past that is full of historic data and
rich with tender sentiment.
	To our people the very ground round
about the northern centre of the city near
the Temple seems almost sacred, and it is
not to be wondered at either, when taken
into consideration how the Saints came here
and the peculiar circumstances surrounding
the people; the arrival of the pioneers and
establishing landmarks and the almost more
remarkable journey of men, women and
children following after and settling in a
desert—and the wonderful events transpir-
ing from time to time, especially the hand
of the Lord made manifest in the preserva-
tion of their lives and the material prosper-
ity which came to them and the gathering
together of a great people from many na-
tions, all these things and many more that
come to mind, when old familiar buildings
are removed to make room for other modern
and more substantial structures, bring back
in memory’s vista scenes and incidents of
that beautiful past, when those we cherished
as the servants of the Lord to lead and guide
his people and to hold in trust and in keep-
ing as it were, the treasures of the earth or
its bounties—the tithing of the Saints. When
watching the old tithing office torn down,
and the Deseret News building makes one
very sentimental to say the least.
	Looking out from the windows of the
Templeton facing the corner where the work
of tearing down the buildings that have stood
on the southwest corner of the block oppo-
site, one who has seen these old places in
the course of construction, can call up
“moving pictures” of the men who figured
conspicuously in public matters; and recall
such scenes and events as strike deep at the
fountains of feeling in the human heart, and
fancy is so busy with recollections so
clear and strong, that one might almost be-
lieve that each memory picture was a real
vision.
	However one ardent wish pervades the soul
of the writer, that the generation now living
in the midst of the newer methods and im-
provements of strength and desirability in
material and in use, to promote comfort ease

[Column 2]
and splendor, and grandeur, of appearances,
may also have the appreciation of these
higher and more artistic homes and public
edifices and structures, and that in all the
innovations that make for the beautifying of
this fair city, they of the present and the
future may hold in the same tender reverence,
the places erected on the ground consecrated
to the Lord for his children, that those of us
who belong to the primitive period of the
settlement of this city have cherished in
our hearts and souls for the cruder and
ruder early beginnings.
	One might better live in a tent in the
wilderness than to lose that tender senti-
mentality that is so helpful to human life,
and more especially that gratitude to our
Heavenly Father for the daily blessings
vouchsafed to all his children. Whatever
comes of wealth, and splendor to this people,
remember much is due to those, who came
early and turned the soil, and planted and
builded and established homes aad institu-
tions and beautified as best they could this
now far-famed “Mecca” of the West.


ONE MORE IN HEAVEN.
		REBECCA E. LITTLE
	Death during the few months past has
claimed among its victims some of the
brightest and most useful of the workers in
the Relief Society. Another notable name
must now be added to the long list recorded.
Our readers are all aware of the demise of
Sister Rebecca Ellen Mantle Little, whose
very recent passing away is fresh in our
minds today, and one scarce knows what to
say. There is much to tell, and in our next
issue we will have a tribute to her life and
works that will give our readers an idea of
the woman as we knew her. Sister Little was
an exceptionally superior woman in many
respects, one who stood for the highest and
best ideals in the home and in public life,
and in all the departments of knowledge
and educational work and of business and
affairs; she had the sterling qualities of
the Scotch race from which she descended,
and of which lineage she was very proud;
she was generous in her soul and in her
character.
	The glowing and eloquent tributes paid
to her by President Nephi L. Morris and
Prof. James E. Talmage at her funeral, as a
scholarly woman and one who forged ahead
in educational attainments bore proof of her
standing in the community where she was
born and had always lived.
	Bishop Frank Platte also spoke of her de-
votion and faithful performance of duties as
a Latter-day Saint, which was a very fitting
and appropriate closing to the career of one
who had been born and reared in the Church,
for which her parents had sacrificed home
and native land. The floral offerings in
great abundance were significant of the
love and esteem of her many friends, the
basket of white roses given by the General
Relief Society, was a testimonial, so to
speak of the whiteness and purity of her life
and the sacred bond which linked her to
the Society, and the basket of lilies of the
plentitude of gifts of mercy and charity,
tender tokens that speak to the human
heart.
		“So by scattered ruins,
		By sweet links unbound
		By fair blossoms all unheeded
		Trampled on the ground,
		So He brings them home to Him,
		Where no cloud their joy can dim.”


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	“Historical Tales” is the title of a unique
set of books prepared for use as text-books
for the Angelus University Course in the his-
tory of the world’s greatest nations, and yet,
they are so charmingly told and so tastefully
bound that they will form a handsome ad-
dition to any ones library.
	The set consists of 23 books, each volume
dealing with historical incidents of the diffe-
rent nations:—American, English, French,
German and the sub-title “The Romance
of Reality’’ so aptly describes them as to
leave little to explain.
	The Tales are some of them “old as the
hills” but the style of telling them is so de-
lightful that they seem to be something new
and read more like fiction than fact.
							I. S. B.


AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN.
		Millennial Star, April 29, 1909.
	During the present week an important
congress has been holding daily sessions at
St. James’ Hall, Gt. Portland Street, Lon-
don. Two hundred delegates from twenty-
one different countries are gathered in the
quinquennial council of the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance. This is not to
be confounded with the movement popularly
known as the cause of the Suffragettes. That
is an independent organization of a militant
character, being neither a part of nor en-
dorsed or opposed by the International or-
ganization which has been holding its ses-
sions this week in London. The ladies in
charge of the meetings of the Alliance are
highly educated, earnest, devoted, well train-
ed in parliamentary usages and able to set
forth their views in a logical and interesting
manner. They do not resort to extremes,
nor fall into the ways of the militant women
who have made such a stir in the country
by violating police regulations and exposing
themselves to the penalties of the law.
	The Alliance moves upon legitimate and
lawful lines, and its influence is therefore
spreading throughout the civilized world. It
is presided over by Mrs. Carrie Chapman-
Catt, who on Monday last delivered a most
remarkable address, speaking extemporane-
ously and without notes for an hour, mak-
ing herself distinctly heard in clear, musical
tones which reached to every part of the
great building. The chair was occupied by
Mrs. Henry Fawcett, LL.D., and a number
of distinguished women took prominent
parts in the business meetings and in the
great demonstration held iu the Royal Albert
Hall. The four States in the American Union
in which woman suffrage has been estab-
lished, viz., Wyoming, Utah, Idaho and Co-
lorado, also Australia, New Zealand, Fin-
land and Norway were represented, and the
Isle of Man came in for its share of represen-
tation, the speaker for that rock in the sea
being Mr. Armitage Rigby.
	Utah’s delegates received recognition in
all the courtesies of the occasion, Dr. Roma-
nia B. Penrose being appointed by the Wo-
man’s National Relief Society, of which Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith is president; Mrs. Nel-
lie C. Taylor by the Young Ladies National
M. I. Association, of which Mrs. Martha H.
Tingey is president; and the editor of the
Star representing the Utah Woman Suffrage
Association, of which Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards is president. The proceedings have
been conducted with the best of order, yet
with enthusiasm and vigor.
	The speakers have evinced a determina-


[Column 1]
tion and zeal which show that their hearts
are in the work which they have undertaken
to perform. They ask only for what they
deem to be simple justice. They demand
for women the same rights to vote as are ac-
corded to men; equal pay for equal work re-
gardless of sex, representation to go with
taxation, a voice in the enactment of laws
which they are required to obey. They point
to the great progress that has been made
towards the uplifting of women through the
efforts of the promoters of the Woman Suf-
frage cause, such as the removal of many
disabilities under which women labored not
many years ago. Since that movement be-
gan, the right to hold property once denied
to married women had been obtained, pro-
fessions once entirely closed to women have
been opened to them. These opportunities
for female labor and independence are in-
creasing, and the conviction is fast taking
hold of the minds of thinking people that
the ballot should be an equal right to women
[-]s to men. 
	The peculiar reasoning that opponents of
woman suffrage use when they put women
forward to solicit votes and to employ all
the tactics and methods peculiar to political
movements, was exposed in a striking man-
ner by speakers at the congress, and it does
seem rather singular that political leaders
and applicants for popular favor are willing
to put women forward as political wire-pul-
lers and canvassers, doing the same work in
election schemes and tactics as men do, and
yet vehemently decry their right or privilege
to vote themselves while engaged in getting
votes for others. The so-called arguments
against woman suffrage that have been used
for many decades are still put forth as
though they were of some weight, when they
have been met and exploded with such force
that it would seem they would never be re-
vived again; such as that women cannot
serve as soldiers therefore they should not
be allowed to vote; the man is the head of
the family therefore the woman does not
need the vote, the family is the unit of the
state and the head represents the family,
etc., etc. 
	The same reasoning would shut out the
majority of men from the ballot. There are
millions of men not suitable for soldiers or
for policemen, or for other offices or posi-
tions. If the head of the family is sufficient
to represent the family, then the unmarried
sons, as well as the daughters and the moth-
er, need not and ought not to have the suf-
frage. The truth is that in a representative
government the individual is the unit of the
state, and the same principle by which the
male when of age is entitled to the ballot
would bestow it also upon the female when
of age or having any other similar qualifica-
tions as a citizen. These are among the
arguments used by women of brains and
culture in the great gathering of the Inter-
national Alliance, and they are set forth
calmly, rationally, without violent attacks
upon the male sex, and yet with force com-
ing from settled conviction and a determina-
tion to succeed. 
	The right of women to equal remuneration
for labor with that given to men when it is
as well performed is also maintained with a
logic that carries conviction to an unbiased
mind, and the need for the alleviation of
distressed and oppressed female laborers in
various capacities forms one of the reasons
advanced why woman should have the bal-
lot. With it she becomes a person of con-
sequence to the office-seeker and office-holder
and can exercise a force in the direction of

[Column 2]
legislation to relieve her from the disabili-
ties which oppress her sex and drive many
of them into ways of living that bring dis-
aster to the commonwealth, as well as ruin
to herself. There is no argument used
against giving the suffrage to women that
cannot be turned to act with squal force
upon a large number of men. 
	The equality of the sexes before the law
and in matters of religion has been recogn-
ized in theory and in practice by the Latter-
day Saints, or “Mormons” as they are gener-
ally called. In the Church both sexes stand
on an equality in voting upon all measures
relating to ecclesiastical affairs. This has
been part of the discipline of the Church
from its very beginning. As early as 1870,
the ballot was given to women in the Terri-
tory of Utah. When Utah became a State
in the American Union, her constitution
provided for equal political rights to women
with men. In this Utah has been a pattern
to surrounding States and has afforded a
most complete refutation of the fallacy so
generally accepted that in Utah women were
in bondage to men. 
	The march of civilization cannot be turned
backward. It is moving with steady strides. 
Proofs that the predicted evils to follow
woman suffrage are fallacious are afforded
by actual facts in the countries and states
where equal suffrage has prevailed for many
years, but prejudice dies hard and none are
so blind as those who will not see. Yet, all
error must eventually give way to mighty
truth, and the principle of justice will gradu-
ally bring forth the right and woman will
stand by the side of man, his companion in
all things, sharing with him every right and
privilege and honor and dignity which he
can lawfully hold and use, for the common
good and the uplifting of enlightened human-
ity.							C. W. P.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF LYDIA POND
				RICH.
	I was born October the 9th, 1834, at
Whitestraw, Wiltshire, England, and am
the daughter of Thomas and Ann Garrett
Pond who were of humble birth but strictly
honest and taught their children the same;
my father died when I was about eight years
old leaving my mother with seven children.
I being the youngest of them. In a few
years my mother was married again to a
man by the name of Isaac Pernell and we
moved to his home in Trowbridge, a manu-
facturing little town; they make some of the
best woolen cloth that is made in England.
After awhile I went to work in one of these
factory’s belonging to the firm of Potter and
Heywood, the same firm that my grand-
parents and parents had worked for, they
were weavers and kept others to help them
and when the weaving was done in the fac-
tory by machinery the old faithful ones still
continued to have theirs at home and the
children if they had any that were old
enough to work in the factory had the privi-
lege of going and working at the power
looms, and I was one of that number; it was
there I first heard of the Latter-day Saints.
Another young girl and myself went to their
meeting for a little pastime and we enjoyed
it very much and went quite often till we
became thoroughly convinced of its truth
and in November 1850 we went down into
the waters of baptism; I was only a girl six-
teen years old. My parents belonged to the
Baptist Church, so I had to depend on my
Father in heaven and he never has forsaken
me.

[Column 2]
	Soon after I joined the Church my step-
father died leaving my mother a widow
again. My home was very comfortable; I
could take the Elders home at any time
and leave them with the family, as I had to
go to work early in the morning and I knew
they would be well cared for, as my mother
would never allow bad rumors told in the
home about the Latter-day Saints. She told
us that we should not tell anything we did
not know to be true, and. we could not al-
ways depend on rumor and that home ought
to be the happiest place on earth. Some
time after I joined the Church I became ac-
quainted with a young man by the name of
John H. Rich and our acquaintance soon
ripened into courtship and in 1852 I became
his wife; we were married in the Church of
England, in January, 1853. We left our
home and turned our faces Zionward being
the only ones of our families that were in
the Church. We left Liverpool on the fifth
of February on the ship Jersey; Elder George
Halliday was our president. We arrived in
New Orleans in March being six weeks and
three days on the sea; we went from New
Orleans up the Mississippi River to St. Louis
and stayed there two months. My husband
went to work while we were there to help
get our living and also to get things for our
journey across the plains; many inducements
were held out to us to try and get us to stop
there; but we had started for the gathering
place of the Saints. We went from St. Louis
up the Mississippi River to Council Bluffs;
I shall never forget how the boat grated on
the river bed; and we camped at Kanesville
till the company was ready to start. The
captains name was Moses Daley; while there
a dear sister met with an accident and lost
her foot, it was shot off by her husband who
had been out hunting and was showing the
boys in camp how he lost his game; he pul-
led the wrong trigger and shot his wife in
the leg; she was getting her baby to sleep at
the time; but there was not much sleep in
camp that night; it was quite a trial for us
to leave her; there was an arrangement made
as soon as she was able for her to come on,
but she went back to St. Louis with her
husband, and they came to Utah the next
year and lived in the city for a while, her
name was Emily Halliday.
	In June we started on our journey across
the plains, August 24th, I gave birth to a
baby boy, we named him Franklin John;
we were at that time at what was called the
Black Hills; the company stayed over one
day for me; we arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 29, 1853.
	A few days after we came in, a brother
Thurston came to our wagon and offered us
a home for the winter at his house if my
husband would work for our board which he
agreed to do; we lived in with the family till
April the following year; when we moved
into a log cabin that we had used as our
bedroom during the winter; it was about fif-
teen feet square with no floor or window,
but it was the best they could do for they
had a large family of their own. It was
there I learned to make salt-rising bread; I
also learned to make butter while there,
Sister Thurston was very kind to us and so
were all of the family. In August, 1854, we
moved to the settlement or fort as it was
called; my husband was working days work
for our living and the Lord blessed us in our
labors and we got us a home, it was a log
house, we bought it of Brother Lyman Porter
and we were thankful to be in our own
house; in January, 1855, another son was
born to us, James Thomas. The following


[Column 1]
fall, in October, while my husband was
hauling wood from the mountain he had the
misfortune to break his leg; he was not able
to do any work that winter; we had some
wheat on hand and had it ground and we
sifted the bran and put one fourth bran and
three fourths flour and it made good bread
and by so doing we had enough bread to
last us till my husband was able to work
and during that winter we lost everything,
and had to make a new start. In September,
1857, a son was born to us, William Henry,
and in the spring of 1858 the call came for
the people to leave their homes and move
south; we were among the first ten that left
Centerville; we left our home not knowing
where we were going; we did not have any
team or wagon at that time, but Brother
Rollins, a man, my husband had done a
great deal of work for, offered him a yoke of
steers, and a light wagon, if he would haul
some of his things with ours which he did;
it was not much we had to haul at that
time; we went to Payson and stayed there
till the latter part of June when we returned
to our home again, and the Lord blest us
greatly for the sacrifice that we had made
although it looked rather dark at the time
and the cloud was hanging low, but there
was a silver lining under the cloud.
	October 31st, 1859, a baby girl was born
to gladden our home, her name was Lydia
Millira; in April, 1861, we moved from Cen-
terville to Weber Valley, now Morgan, in
Morgan County; my husband took up some
land and built us another home; we were
among the first settlers; there were many
hardships to endure, but it all gave us an
experience and taught us to be thankful to
our heavenly Father for the blessings we re-
ceive from time to time; in January, 1862,
another little girl was born to us, Louisa
Ann, but she did not stay with us long, not
quite two years and her spirit took its flight
to the better land.
	There are many lessons to be learned in
settling up new countries and in those days
there was not much to do with, making it
all the more difficult to build new homes;
now it is comparatively easy to do what it
was then, a great hardship, one can scarcely
realize it if they have not passed through it
in these days. We were glad to have a
spring seat in a lumber wagon to ride in but
that is almost a thing of the past now and
buggies have taken their place; in 1865 an-
other daughter, Lucy Jane, was born to us.
	In 1868, the Relief Society of Morgan was
organized and I have been a member of it
ever since; for which I am truly thankful,
for it has been a good school for me; it has
taught me to rely on my Father in heaven
for strength to do all things. In March, 1877,
I was chosen President of the Relief Society
of Morgan, and when the stake organization
was effected in 1878, I was chosen President
of the stake and held both offices until 1889
when I asked to be released from being Pre-
sident of Morgan ward; I am still laboring
as President of the Morgan stake. I shall
never forget how I felt when my name was
called out for me to take that responsible po-
sition. When I reached home I said to our
dear sister Eliza R. Snow; I fear I am not
capable of filling that position; she said you
will; and fill it with honor, and those words
have always been strength to me in the hour
of need, and before she went home she blest
me; and it has always been a help to me
with other blessings that I have received
from her and Aunt Zina and many others
who have gone behind the veil not forgetting
the many kind and encouraging words that

[Column 2]
I have received from many of the Sisters
that have visited our conferences; among
them Sisters Jane S. Richards and E. B. Wells,
many words of counsel have they given me
and they have been as land marks while
passing through life. In 1879 my eldest
daughter died leaving a baby girl four days
old, it lived one week and passed away. In
1886, my eldest son died leaving a wife and
six boys, they are all grown up to manhood
and are workers in the Church. I have pas-
sed through many trials; it has given me ex-
periences, that have been as gems by the way
side; and my faith has been increased and I
trust I will be faithful to the truth to the
end of my life.
					LYDIA RICH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
	We wish to record through our valuable paper,
the death of one of our faithful sisters, Mrs.
Mary L. Nelson of the sixth ward, Provo, who be-
came a member of the Relief Society when it was
first organized in the 2nd ward of Provo, and
officiated as a teacher in that ward very many
years, and served faithfully in that capacity after
the ward was divided until a short time before
her demise, acting as a teacher over thirty years.
Sister Nelson was born at Hornly, Sweden on the
17th of February, 1831, and departed this life on
the 19th of October, 1908.
	She was the beloved wife of Brother Lars P.
Nelson and was a true and loving companion.
She came to Utah in the year 1861, crossing the
plains by ox teams, and was married the same
year. She was the mother of several children.
	Bishop Nelson of the 2nd ward survives them.
Sister Nelson was a consistent Latter-day
Saint, true to her covenants, for she delighted in
her holy religion, and as such we shall ever regard
her memory.

	We have been called upon to part with another
of our faithful sisters, in the person of Sister Ma-
tilda E. Loveless, wife of the late Bishop Loveless
of the 2nd ward, Provo. She also joined the Re-
lief Society when it was first organized, in that
ward, wherein she was a teacher and counselor
very many years, and continued an active worker
in the 6th ward after the wards were divided.
She was born at Nashville, Tenn., and was the
daughter of Brother and Sister William C. McClel-
lan, on the 15th of Dec. 1828, and passed away
after a lingering illness, March 15, 1909. She was
the mother of ten children. When young she was
with her parents in Nauvoo, and always bore a
strong testimony of the divinity of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and remembered many remarkable
scenes and incidents in his life of which she was a
witness. She was always willing to perform the
last sad rites for the dead evsn in contagi-
ous diseases, for which she was highly appreci-
ated. One of her nephews is Professor McClel-
lan, the organist of the Salt Lake City Tabernacle.
				ELECTA BULLOCK,
						Pres’t.
				M. A. TILL,
				CLARA PAXMAN,
						Committee.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of our beloved sister Mabel Ann
Hakes, who departed this life January 19, 1908.
	She was born in McDonough Co., Illinois, April
10, 1840. She was born in the Church and was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith,
who used to dandle her on his knee when she was
a little tot. She went with her parents to Utah in
1850, and to San Bernardino, California, in 1851,
and was there married to Collins R. Hakes on the
28th of Feb., 1857. In ’58 the young couple re-
moved to Utah, where they remained until 1883,
at which time they came to Mesa, Arizona.
	Sister Hakes joined the Relief Society in 1868,
not as a lay member, but as a ward counselor,
and spent 40 years in Relief Society work, holding
office the entire time. She was a stake officer,
counselor or president, for twelve years while liv-
ing in Mesa, but finally had to resign on account
of ill health.
	Sister Hakes and her companion lived together
almost 52 years, and she was the mother of 12
children. She had 43 grandchildren and 21 great
grandchildren. Though she had many trials in


life her family never heard her speak a word in
anger. For two years previous to her death she
was helpless and a constant sufferer, but she never
murmured nor complained.
	Sister Mabel Hakes was truly a noble woman,
and a mother in Israel, and we, the Relief Soci-
ety of Mesa Ward and of Maricopa Stake shall
greatly miss her from our midst; but while we
feel her loss, and miss her wise counsel, and while
we sympathize with her bereaved husband and
children, we bow to the will of our Heavenly
Father and pray that when we are called from our
earthly labors we may be worthy to meet her in
the great beyond.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon the records of the Stake Relief Soci-
ety, a copy be sent to the family and a copy sent
to the Exponent for publication.
					CELIA A. SMITH,
					BARBARA ALLEN,
					ANNIE E. FULLER,
								Committee.


IN MEMORIAM.
Resolution of respect to the memory of Anna
	Kleinman, daughter of Henry Beneze and
		Elizabeth Lang, who departed this life
			December 8th, 1908.
	She was born June 1st, 1836, was one of the
first to embrace the gospel in the place where she
then resided (Weininger, Zurich, Switzerland) in
the year 1854.
	Emigrated to Utah in the following year, mar-
ried Conrad Kleinman in 1856, in Salt Lake City,
moved from there and went to Lehi to live some
time after.
	In 1861 they were called to Dixie, among the
first that were called there, and obedient to the
call went and made their home at St. George un-
til 1867, when they moved to Toquerville, where
they stayed until 1883, when they moved to Ari-
zona.
	She was the mother of ten children, three girls
and seven boys. Four sons survive her death.
	She was called to preside over the Relief Socie-
ty of Alma ward, Maricopa stake, May 31, 1883,
which duty she performed in an energetic and
exemplary manner, until a few years ago. She
then moved to Utah with her husband to work in
the Temple at St. George; while there she was
called upon to part with her husband Conrad
Kleinman, after his death she still continued to
labor in the house of the Lord, and did the work
for 2,500 or 3,000 relatives and friends.
	She was sympathetic in nature; always helping
those that were sick or in trouble.
	She passed through all the hardships of the
early days in Salt Lake.
	Having a desire to once more visit with her sons
and daughters in Mesa, Maricopa Co., and then
return to St. George to finish her work for the
dead, but while here her health began to fail and
after lingering for four weeks after an operation
finally succumbed to the inevitable.
	She won the love and esteem of all whom she
associated with through life.
	And the officers and members of the Alma ward
Relief Society, feel that in her passing away we
have lost a faithful and earnest worker in the Re-
lief Society cause, a firm and valued friend and
be it
	Resolved:—That we duly sympathize with her
family in their deep bereavement, and sorrow in
the loss of a loving and devoted mother, and we
pray that the sweet consoling spirit may descend
upon them to heal up the broken hearts.
	Resolved:—That we sincerely mourn her depar-
ture from us but appreciate her past faithful la-
bors, and know that she has gone to receive her
reward for her past labors so well performed.
	Resolved:—That we place these resolutions up-
on our record, present a copy to the family, and
also send one to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication.
			Josephine H. Pew, President,
			Mary P. Standage,
			Clara Rogers, Counselors,
			Eva A. Kleinman, Secretary.


Miss Eetelle Reel, National Superintend-
ent of Indian Schools points out in her last
official report that there has been marked
progress during the last few years in the
general field of Indian education. Good re-
sults have been obtained through industrial
training and the encouragement of native
industries.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 47th Relief Society con-
ference of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Vernal in the ward house, February 28,
1909, beglnning at 2 p. m.
	There were present on the stand Brother
Dan B. Colton of the Stake Presidency, and
several high Councilors, Patriarch Nelson
Merkley, several bishops of wards, besides a
goodly number of Relief Society presidents
of wards. President Nancy A. Colton pre-
siding. Singing, prayer and singing.
	Sacrament was then administered, after
which President Nancy A. Colton welcomed
the brethren and sisters; she reported the
Stake in good condition, all the wards in the
valley had been visited except Jensen. We
anticipate visiting those on the reservation
in the near future; she spoke of the Sabbath
day, charity, cheerfulness and cleanliness.
	A lecture by Mrs. Jean Merkley was given
entitled “Loyalty.” “To our country, to
our Church and people, to the priesthood,
to our homes and relatives and to ourselves,”
etc. The subject was ably handled.
	Song by Bathera Young and Mina Pack,
assisted by Miss Afton Pack.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett addressed the con-
gregation on the subjects of loyalty, charity,
the evils that surround us, the duties of
Relief Society workers, and of the mission-
aries that go to the nations of the earth.
She bore a strong testimony of the truthful-
ness of the Gospel.
	Song by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, assisted
by Brother Orson Calder.
	Brother Dan B. Colton, in behalf of the
Stake Presidency, felt to say amen to the
work which was being done in the Relief
Society of the Stake and he appreciated the
work of the Relief Society workers. He
encouraged the brethren and sisters to
gather and fight against the evils that are
in our midst.
	President Nancy A. Colton made a few
closing remarks, thanked all for their
presence.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing. Benediction by Elder Fred G.
Bingham.
			PNEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec’y.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference  of
the Relief Society of the Nebo Stake of Zion
held at the Benjamin Ward meeting house,
on Friday, March 25, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 a. m. Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presidlng.
	Singing, prayer and singing.
	Sister Bingham, president of Benjamin
Ward, spoke a few words of welcome, and
gave in a brief report of her ward.
	President Eliza J. Dixon made opening
remarks congratulated the people on their
efforts in coming out today, said we are in
need of spiritual food as well as temporal,
and we get fed both temporally and spirit-
ually in the Relief Society work, spoke of
early spiritual training in children.
	Sister Forcey gave in a good report of
Mammoth Ward. Sister Jenkins gave a
good report of the condition of Goshen
Ward, all working in harmony. Sister
Tietjen reports Santaquin as doing good
work. Gave some good instructions—we
should do the will of our Savior.
	Instrumental selection by Sister Oakle-
man. Sister Andrus spoke for some time on
the subject of charity, in a very able man-
ner.

[Column 2]
	Recitation, Josephine Shepherd.
	Sister Eleanor Hone read a paper on
child culture.
	After singing, and prayer by Sister Mary
Brown, conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	At 2 p. m. the conference reconvened,
President Eliza Dixon presiding, Mary
Brown in charge.
	Singing and prayer and usual exercises.
	A paper was read on parents’ class work
by Sister Beck. Sister Hawkins spoke a
few words, having just returned from a three
months’ visit to California. Recitation, Sis-
ter Nora S. Hone.
	Sister Kapple gave a talk on lesson work
for the Relief Society, spiritual growth.
	Solo by Brother Charles Hawkins, entitled
“The Way of the Cross.” Sister Alis-
baugh gave a talk on our children attending
the various organizations, referred especially
to the Religion classes.
	Brother Swenson spoke of the work and
responsibility of the sisters and the mission
of Joseph Smith. Said to teach our children
the great sin of blasphemy. Bishop John-
son said it was good to carry sunshine in
our lives.
	Sister Dixon made a few closing remarks
and thanked all who had taken part in mak-
ing our conference a success.
	After singing, and benediction by Sister
Clara Evans, conference adjourned for three
months.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.
			TETON STAKE.
	The Teton Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened at Driggs, April 25th, 1909.
President Sophia E. Rigby presiding. The
morning session commenced by singing.
Prayer by President J. D. Killpack, Jr.
Singing. The sacrament was administered,
and during the passing of the sacrament
Jas. F. Griggs played an instrumental sacred
solo.
	Six wards were represented, six of the
Stake Board, the Stake Presidency, five
High Counselors present. There was a good
representation of members and visitors.
	Brother David A. Smith of Victor sang a
solo.
	President Sophia E. Rigby welcomed
those present and prayed for the Spirit of
the Lord to attend our conference.
	Sister Sadie Green of Driggs read a paper
on Relief Society work.
	President Martha Little reported Haden
Society.
	Duet from Darby.
	Geo. S. Young of the Stake Presidency
spoke of how Latter-day Saints are tested as
to their faith in our Creator. Cheerfulness
was also spoken upon, and how it helped
others as well as ourselves.
	Hymn, “All hail the glorious day,” by the
congregation.
	Secretary Olive M. Scott reported Victor
Society.
	T. R. Wilson of the High Council spoke
of the genuine work of the Relief Society.
	Darby was reported by President Louisa
Davidson.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills we
bless Thee.” Benediction by Sister M. H.
Price.
	The afternoon session opened by singing.
Prayer and singing as usual.
	Silvia M. Thompson spoke on the great-
ness of the Relief Society work, also recited
“No room for the boys.”
	Quartette rendered from Pratt ward.
	J. D. Killpack, Jr., of the Stake Presi-

[Column 3]
dency encouraged the good work of the Re-
lief Society.
	Solo from Haden.
	Lecture, “Science of baby raising,” by A.
T. P. Durrant.
	President D. C. Driggs spoke on patience,
perseverance and cheerfulness.
	Maude Pratt Griggs then sang a solo.
	Singing, “When dark and drear.”
	Benediction by A. T. P. Durrant.
				LYDIA E. FULLMER,
						Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Alpine stake was held in the
2nd ward chapel American Fork, Friday,
January 29th, 1909. Stake Counselor Annie
C. Hindley presiding[-] Meeting opened at
10 a. m. with the usual exercises.
	Counselor Hindley greeted the Sisters.
Thought it the largest gathering since the
stake was organized. Extended the greet-
ings of the season in behalf of President
Standring, who had been called away to at-
tend two funerals of very dear friends. The
first time our president has been absent from
conference since the stake was organized.
Sister Hindley thought the sisters had done
well this year and the president was well
satisfied with their labors, and desired her
love to them. Invoked our Father’s blessings
would rest upon us, and that by common
consent we would hold a testimony meeting
this morning, and all who desired could take
part.
	Song, “Count your blessings,” by the con-
gregation.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs bore her testi-
mony, and urged the sisters to not spend all
their time in temporal affairs. We must
feed our spirits and seek to overcome our
weaknesses. Set a good example to our
children and make a determination that we
will serve the Lord.
	Twenty-two sisters bore faithful, spirited
testimonies, interspersed with singing and
prayer from the congregation. The spirit
of the Lord worked so powerfully among the
sisters they could not keep their seats but
were on their feet two at a time, and it
seemed quite difficult to bring the meeting
to a close.
	Benediction by Sister E. D. Clarke.
	(Lunch was served during the noon recess.
300 sisters were present.)
	Afternoon Session: Sister Annie C. Hind-
ley presiding.
	After the opening exercises Sister Kate
Allred reported Lehi 2nd ward in good con-
dition. Have testimony meetings and les-
son meetings alternately. Have 850 bushels
of wheat on hand. Gave a report of the
Kirmess, given by the Relief Society for one
week, and had cleared something over four-
teen hundred dollars to finish paying off the
debt on the Tabernacle.
	Sister Louisa Halliday reported Pleasant
Grove. “We work unitedly and have quite
a few poor and elderly people, who feel
grateful for the help the Society gives them.
Have a new cement granary, with iron roof
and door, and feel that our grain will be safe
from mice and insects.
	Mrs. Maycock of the Agricultural College
of Logan was introduced to the sisters and
gave a lecture. Traced the growth of do-
mestic science and home economics, proving
that the educational system has been at
fault, and that professional training of girls
should be home making. They should
choose their profession early in life and all


their education should tend toward that of
home making, as ninety-nine girls out of
every hundred come to that some time in
their lives. The day is coming when we will 
realize the benefit of proper home making
even in the question of diet, if the mother
wishes to raise the standard of her family,
the community, the state and the nation,
she must look well to the diet in her home.
The boys and girls must be taught to be
home makers and home keepers. Teach
them how to cope with problems they will
meet in the homes they expect to make.
Girls should be taught to save time and
energy by knowing how to keep house prop-
erly, but to do so we must be alive, be
awake and progressive. The business man
knows that he must get out and converse
with people, read along his line of work and
be a wide awake, progressive man. The
home maker should do the same in order to
profitably use her time and energy.
	It is the duty of the mother to see that
the daughter is in full practice in all the du-
ties of home making, before she sacrifices
her time and energy to let the daughter take
so much text book and cultural work. More
household duties would be of more health-
ful benefit to the daughter and at the same
time prepare her for wife and motherhood,
and we would have fewer nervous wrecks.
Some mothers think that the daughter is not
strong and too delicate to perform the duties
of home, and so does that herself when nine
times out of ten the mother is the most un-
able, and it would be the best thing for the
daughter to drop some of her mental work
and perform more physical labor. Instead
of education preparing one for life, we should
be living the actual practical life while get-
ting this education.
	President S. L. Chipman enjoyed the spirit
of the meeting and also the ideas advanced
today. There is nothing that will bring more
comfort in the home than a little regularity
and arrangement. This is a fact in business
and it is in the home.
	We are living in an age of progress and
advancement. Our schools have been mak-
ing a mistake in training the head and not
the heart nor the hand. I hope the time is
not far distant when the training will be di-
vided between the head, heart and hand,
and make the education one of practical
work, so that our boys and girls will be
turned out practical men and women.
	Let us have our ideals and ambitions high
and work to that and reach it.
	We do not find such another organization
as the Relief Society. It is a labor of love;
so is that of the bishop. Stand by them and
do not allow any one to say anything against
them in your presence.
	Meeting closed by singing and the benedic-
tion was by President James H. Clarke.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA J. T. ROBERTS,
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


JULIA WARD HOWE POST CARD. 
	M,s. Julia Ward Howe has been made the
subject of a new post card, one of the most
artistic yet issued, It is pale brown and
bears a very pleasing portrait of Mrs. Howe,
the last verse of the “Battle Hymn,” and a
fac-simile of Mrs. Howe’s signature. It may
be ordered from the Msssachuttes Woman
Suffrage Association, 585 Boylston St. Bos-
ton. Price 5 cents apiece. Add one cent
or more for postage, according to the quan-
tity ordered.


MRS. HOWE AT 90.
	Mrs. Julia Ward How’s ninetieth birthday
brought her as many floral tributes as if all
the flowers of her ninety springs had come
to life again, and were raining down upon
her. There was also a profusion of magnifi-
cent birthday cakes, and a shower of letters
and telegrams from many parts of the
world. There were so many presents that
the hall of her Beacon street home was fair-
ly crammed with dainty packages, snd
looked as if a wedding or a Christmas tree
were in prospect.
	All her children were with her at lnnch-
eon—Mrs Laura E. Richards, Mrs. Florence
Howe Hall, Professor Henry Marion Howe
and Mrs. Maud Howe Elliott. The recep
tion that followed was limited to the family
and a few intimate friends as Mrs. Howe
was just convalescent from a cold. Receiv-
ing with Mrs. Howe were Mrs. Henry M.
Howe, Mrs. Elliott, Mrs. Richards, and
Miss Rosalind and Miss Elizabeth Richards,
and Miss Marjorie Parks, of Brighton, a
grandniece of Dr. Howe.
	Mrs. Howe was dressed entirely in white
and wore no flowers. On the table back of
her “throne chair” was set a huge bunch of
lilies of the valley, sent by the children of
the Asylum for the Blind, with a bunch of
letters written by them.
	Among the telegrams received were those
from the Rhode Island Woman Suffrage
Association, the New Jersey Woman Suf-
frage Association, the National Alliance of
Unitarian Women, the senior class of the
Durfee High School, Fall River, the St.
Mathew’s Rectory, Bedford, N. Y., and the
National Woman’s trade Union League. A
greeting with which Mrs. Howe was especi-
ally pleased was from the Church of the
Disciples, to which she has belonged for
many years and whose pulpit she has occa-
sionally filled.
	Among the presents was a beautiful ame-
thyst necklace from the New England
Women’s Club. The Italian consul snd
the Circolo Italiano of which Mrs. Howe is
honorary president, the Greeks of Boston
and the Suffrage Association were among
those sending flowers. Altogether it was a
delightful occasion.


A VICTORY IN SWITZERLAND
	Switzerland has adopted a Federal Civil
Code for the whole Republic. Beginning
January 1, 1912, this will take the place of
the thirty different codes now in force in the
different cantons.
	When the new code was adopted the
Swiss parliament voted to give a copy of it to
every male citizen. The National Council of
of Women asked the Federal Council to
give a copy also to every spinster or widow
who might ask for it. This was refused;
but the Federal Council has now reconsid-
ered its action and has granted the women’s
request. It is eminently reasonable, since
women as well as men need to understand
the laws under which they live.


THE INTERNATIONAL SUFFRAGE SONG.
	A number of songs were sent in for the compe-
tition opened for an international hymn of wom-
en’s freedom. The following was chosen, the com-
mittee making the recommendation said that
there were others with more literary value as
poems, but none which lent themselves so well to
music:
		Forward, sister women!
			Onward evermore! 	
		Bondage is behind you,
			Freedom is before,
		Raise the standard boldly,
			In the morning sun!
		Gainst a great injustice
			See the fight begun!
	
			CHORUS:
		Forward, forward, sisters!
			Onward evermore!
		Bondage is behind you,
			Freedom is before.

		See the women’s army
			Press their country’s sod!
		Sisters, you are treading
			Where the heroes trod.
		Let no fear withhold you,
			No oppression stay;
		Out of night and darkness
			Onward into day!

		Women’s hands have labored,
			Giving love and life.
		Yours is now to follow
			In the glorious strife. 
		Lift the burden gladly,
			Strong in right and youth,
		Victor’s wreaths must crown you,
			Naught can conquer truth!


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Women’s Franchise says: “In Mr. Mer-
redith we have lost an ardent woman suffra-
grist. Perhaps now he is dead his ‘Ballad
of Fair Ladies in Revolt’ will be better ap-
preciated as propaganda’
	The proprietor of Keith’s theatre recently
announced that jokes against mothers-in-law
would be excluded from all performances
upon its stage. Mr. Keith has been flooded
with letters of thanks. It is reported that
most of these are from men, who declare
that they are on the best of terms with
their wives’ mothers.
	Florence Nightingale, who has just en-
tered her ninetieth year, received many con-
gratulatory messages and bouquets. She is
now so feeble as to be confined to her room. 
Miss Nightingale has been a life-long advo-
cate of woman suffrage. When asked to
give her reasons she wrote: “It seems to
me almost self-evident, an axiom, that every
householder and tax-payer should have a
voice in the expenditure of the money we
pay, including, as this does interests the
most vital to the human being.”
	Mrs. Howe has just been re-elected presi-
dent of the New England Women’s Club, an
office that she has held for many years. She
succeeded the first president, Mrs. Caroline
M. Severance, who is now a beloved and
honored “Mother of Clubs” in Los Angeles,
Mrs. Howe was the first president of the New
England Woman Suffrage Association, 
chosen at its organization nearly 40 years
ago, and she has been re-elected at its last
annual meeting.				Ex.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US

