Vol. 37.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1908.						No. 4.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Pioneer Literature and Writers.......................
	...............................Annie Wells Cannon	25
Relief Society Stake Reports: Snowflake		27
	Liberty—Union—Millard—Nebo—
	Uintah.....................................................	30
Ministering Christmas Angels........................
	...................................Susa Young Gates	29
Twenty-ninth Anniversary....Amelia Wardrop	29
In Memoriam of Elizabeth Hill Maughan......	31
Birthday Party........................Emily Isaacson	31
Portland Relief Society...................................	31
National Council of Women...........................	32
Notes and News..............................................	32
Essay on Prayer............................Rinta Snow	32
Editorial:—The Election of a President.........	28
	Editorial Notes........................................	28
Poetry:—Intuitive Solace.........Ellis R. Shipp	25


INTUITIVE SOLACE.
I hunted all over the garden
My garden now yellow and sere
I wanted a flower for my darling,
	A flower with a message of cheer.
But dead leaves were rustling about me,
	The lilies had bent their fair heads,
The sweet peas and asters in mourning,
	With the daisies asleep in their beds.
I turned with a sigh, while I wondered,
	Why all things so lovely must fade;
Why love’s tender ties must be sundered,
	And hopes in their graves must be laid.
Why eyes must grow dim with their weeping,
	Why hearts must e’en break with their ach-
		ing,
Why moments slip on while we’re sleeping,
	And life’s wine is lost in partaking.
In vain I had sought for a treasure,
	That breathed of new life and great peace;
Disappointment I found without measure,
	But nothing heart-hunger to ease.
My soul was o’erwrought with a sorrow,
	My head bent low on my breast;
E’en hopes in the joys of a morrow,
	Seemed all dead along with the rest.
But just as my footsteps were turning,
	My heart gave a sudden great bound;
Ah, somethfng I saw small and purple,
	Yes, surely one flower I had found.
It scarcely could peep from the grasses
	And leaves that enshrouded it there,
Just kissed by the sun’s glinting flashes,
	My dear little violet fair.
I’d been seeking for flowers most regal,
	All gorgeous in color and form;
Forgetting that nothing could equal
	The sweet, modest violet’s charm.
So fragrant, and yet unassuming,
	How perfect your power of speech,
So faithful for aye in your blooming,
	Most potent the lesson you teach.
Inspiring a patient endurance,
	Though trodden beneath careless feet;
Firm trust and a constant assurance,
	Our joys in the end are complete.
Sweet spirit of infinite feeling,
	E’en found in the folds of this flower,
Go thou with divine, tender healing,
	And comfort her heart from this hour.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
PIONEER LITERATURE AND WRITERS.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
				I.
	In the different epochs of the world’s his-
tory great spirits have been born to carry
out the wondrous designs of the Creator.
	Few comparatively are the names passed
down through the generations that have
achieved great deeds in the world’s drama,
so turning back the page we read of Moses
and the prophets, but the names of those
who helped them in their great works are
long since forgotten. Then we come to the
awakening and the world is illumined by
the birth of Christ, marvelous was the work
of his disciples, men and women that their
names have been handed down through the
centuries to be revered by the children of
men as Saints; and yet it is the Saints, those
whose lives are nothing in the balance
against the work of God who have left their
“foot prints on the sands of time” and
whose praises are sung throughout the ages.
	Since the hour of the transfiguration when
Christ died that man might live, nations
have had their rise and fall and men and
women have played great parts upon the
stage of life.
	The brightest constellation of stars since
that time in all the world’s great history ap-
peared with the dawn of the 19th century.
	The civilized world was shocked and dev-
astated with Napoleon’s great army. Liter-
ature, science, art, religion, all the finer feel-
ings were dormant, commerce and invention
were stagnated, for the wealth, force and
sinew of nations was being applied towards
checking the onward march of that master
General but there was a quickening in the
world’s pulse when Napoleon met his Water-
loo. Out of the darkness came great light.
In the literary world alone were born many
most glorious spirits, Hugo, Eliot, Dickens,
Bancroft. But the brightest star in all this
wondrous constellation, the brightest since
the sorrowful Nazarene, was the spirit of
JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET.
	With him came others to help in his won-
drous work, chosen spirits sent by the Mas-
ter to perform the Master’s work and among
those master spirits are those of whom the
Latter-day Saints may be justly proud today
for their fine literary genius and attainments.
	It has been remarked that Utah has made
much greater advance in music and in art
than she has in literature, that from a world-
ly standpoint in fact she had made no pro-
gress at all, her writers had made no fame
outside her boundaries, while her musicians
and painters were widely known.
	If this be true, as perhaps it is in part, it
is due to the fact that the literature of Utah
is largely of a religious nature and a prejudic-
ed world is reluctant to give merit even where
merit is due. Sublime themes in painting
and music are inspiring and pleasing to the
eye and ear without particularly appealing
to one’s reasoning powers, while the same
subjects dealt with in a literary way call
forth the reasoning and argumentative pow-
ers of the mind and are less apt to receive
favor. A picture is accepted by the critics
not for the sermon that it preaches or the

[Column 2]
story that it tells but for its beauty in shad-
ing and coloring, its perfect perspective, its
symmetry and lines. A musical composition
not so much for its theme but such arrange-
ment of sound as to produce the most tell-
ing and harmonious effects; but a poem or
a story or writings of any kind must have
besides the genius of inspiration and the
learned acquirement of composition the art
to appeal to the sympathy and reason of the
human mind, before it ranks among the
classics. That Utah has now and has al-
ways had such works I do maintain whether
the world’s critics received them as such or
not. The writings of the Utah authors should
justly claim a first place in the ranks for
erudition, composition, inspiration and sen-
timent.
	True in the field of literature known as
Fiction Utah can make little claim to excel-
lence and yet in all the world’s history there
can scarcely be found a people, whose tradi-
tions, experiences and sentiment so abound
in those attributes and acquirements which
are necessary for the making of a successful
novel. A people taught, however, almost
from the beginning to refrain from reading
that class of literature are not very likely to
study the art of composing it and what few
attempts have been made have been confined
largely to the short story telling for maga-
zines and newspapers by some of our later
writers with probably the exception of the
dramas and stories of Edward W. Tullidge
and that rather striking story of Corianton
from the Book of Mormon by Brigham H.
Roberts and some religious novels by Nephi
Anderson.
	The class of literature embracing treatises,
essays, letters, history, journalism, and
poetry, has always existed with the people
of Utah and is of the highest and best order.
	In the building of an empire where all the
strength and ability of every man, woman
and child, had to be spent towards the mak-
ing of homes, little time could be given to-
wards the cultivation of the talents in the
higher refinements, and yet from the founda-
tion of the Church the Latter-day Saints
have been a studious reading people and the
record of the Church itself is a literary dra-
ma.
	“Seek ye out of the best books words of
wisdom, seek learning even by study and by
faith” is a commandment given through the
Prophet Joseph Smith to his people, and so
seeking and learning by study and by faith
out of the best books the people of this
commonwealth have ever had before them
the highest ideals of literary work.
	Carlyle says—“The writer of a book, is not
he a preacher, preaching not to this parish
or that, on this day or that but to all men,
in all times and places. * * * * Men
of letters are a perpetual priesthood from
age to age teaching all men that a God is
still present in their life. * * * * The
true literary man is the light of the world,
the world’s priest; guiding it like a sacred
pillar of fire in its dark pilgrimage through
the waste of time.” From the time when
the boy prophet brought forth from the Hill
Cumorah and gave to the world, that great-
est and most powerful of books—the Book


[Column 1]
of Mormon,—the Latter-day Saint people
have been building a literature better in ori-
ginality and inspiration of thought, than any
other people. What had we, when sixty-one
years ago, our fathers and mothers entered
this valley, in a literary way? Principally per-
sonal diaries and a Hymn Book. Oh, what
a Hymn Book! It contains some of the
grandest themes, words most prophetic, doc-
trines most profound, mingled with a senti-
ment so sweet, so pure, so full of faith and
hope all in perfect rhyme and rhythm as can
not be found between the covers of any other
song book in the world.
	It has always been the custom of the Latter-
day Saints as soon as they became settled
in a town capacity to establish a newspaper
and in less than three years after reaching
these valleys, the Deseret News was estab-
lished, a weekly periodical with Willard
Richards as editor. Through its columns
those who had literary talents were invited
to express themselves; it has always been the
organ of the Church and soon became a
daily paper. It had for editors, always, men
of literary ability and renown among the
people and has ever held a high place in the
ranks of journalism as an organ of good, up-
right principles.
	Of books the pioneers possessed but few
having to use the space in their conveyances
for the necessaries of life; what few these
were, however, were of the choicest, but
what matter, so long as among the people
if there were not books there were men and
women who were the makers of books.
	Early in the fifties a literary society called
the Polysophical Society was organized by
Lorenzo Snow. The meetings were held
twice a week and were much enjoyed. The
object of the association was the cultivation
of the mind and manners in a social and
literary way. Is it not remarkable that in
a western desert, among a poor and driven
people should originate and thrive a literary
association of which the favored east, even
Boston herself, with her culture and refine-
ment might be proud to day? Also so far as
present research can show it was the first
literary club in the United States. Among
the members may be mentioned the founder
—Lorenzo Snow and his gifted sister Eliza
R. Snow, Brigham Young, the poets Henry
W. Naisbitt, W. G. Mills, John Lyon, W. W.
Phelps, Hannah T. King and Hannah Cor-
naby.
	Probably the pioneer writer deserving first
mention is the author of that wonderful mis-
sionary work—“The Voice of Warning”—
Parley P. Pratt. A young literary man in
speaking of Parley P. Pratt says—“In prose
we have only had his equal in his brother
Orson. These two men, have written, I be-
lieve, all the philosophy on which Mormon
literature is founded.” Parley P. Pratt lived
scarce fifty years but in that short period of
time he performed a work so magnificent as
a missionary, a legislator, a journalist, a
writer, and a man of God as to leave his
name among the immortals. “The Voice of
Warning” was first published in 1838, has
passed through numerous editions, been
translated in almost every modern language
and is still doing its great work among the
people and the nations though its author has
long since passed away.
	The Key to Theology, another of our
standard church works, has been a great help
to the missionary, a guide to the teacher and
student of religious literature and an inspi-
ration to the expounder of our faith. In
1840, Parley P. Pratt brought out the first
number of the first volume of that glorious

[Column 2]
little periodical The Millennial Star, in the
city of Manchester, England, on the cover of
which appeared the beautiful hymn “The
morning breaks, the shadows flee,” written
by him expressly for that purpose and oc-
casion and which has ever since been the
first hymn in the Latter-day Saints Hymn
Book. Besides the numerous newspaper ar-
ticles and letters written by him, Parley P.
Pratt wrote forty-six of the choicest hymns
sung by the Latter-day Saints. On his fif-
tieth birthday while on a mission in the east
and just a month before his death, he wrote
a poem called “My Fiftieth Year” which in
a most concise and musical way tells some-
thing of his life and work. One verse reads
like this:

I have wandered far, I have wandered wide,
From Maine to the wild Missouri’s tide;
And over the Atlantic’s sea girt isles
Full many a weary thousand miles.
I have trampled the desert’s burning sands
And the snow-clad mountains of unknown lands.
Mid the crystal waters of Deseret
I have pulled the oar and cast the net;
I have climbed the steeps with the golden ore,
And roamed o’er the lone Pacific shore;
I have ploughed its bosom many a day
To visit the nations far away;
I have stood on Chili’s distant shore,
Where the Polar star is seen no more;
I have gazed on the Andes heights of snow
And roamed mid the flowery plains below.
I have toiled with the great in freedom’s cause,
And assisted to give a state its laws.
I have lain in a dungeon bound in chains
And been honored in courts where justice reigns
In a thousand joys and a thousand fears
I have struggled on through my fifty years.

	This poem, probably the last he ever
wrote, was like the summing up of his life’s
work and in it he expresses a weariness of
travel and a desire to rest in his home with
his dear ones. For him the span of life was
short but his work will extend forever.
	Orson Pratt like his brother was one of the
first apostles of the Church. Both were col-
lege men and both came from old Puritan
stock. They accepted the gospel in its ful-
ness and were ardent and faithful laborers
in the Church. The literary work of Orson
Pratt is more of a scientific nature and his
sermons alone would make a volume of pro-
found thought. In 1852, Orson Pratt pub-
lished a periodical in the city of Washing-
ton called “The Seer,” the two volumes of
which contain articles on the priesthood
and other doctrinal subjects. Perhaps the
most widely read of his works is The Key to
the Universe a book which learned scientists
have marveled could be produced in his
time, for it reveals things which have in
later years by the use of new improved sci-
entific instruments been discovered by the
most learned men. In 1848 he edited the
Millennial Star and was always writing and
studying and gaining knowledge for the
benefit of his people. A collection of tracts
for missionary work called Orson Pratt’s
Works is a notable volume among our
Church works. A rather unique work of
Orson Pratt’s was the transcribing and pub-
lishing of the Book of Mormon in Phonetic
characters, called the Deseret Alphabet.
Brother Orson Pratt was a man of humble
demeanor and rather inclined to diffidence
in social affairs, childlike simplicity of man-
ner but a most wonderful mind and a voice
so resonant and rich that thousands still re-
member his powerful and logical sermons
delivered in the great Tabernacle. His writ-
ings appeal more to the student than the or-
dinary reader. Orson Pratt with Erastus
Snow were the first of the pioneers to enter
this valley, riding down on the 23rd of July,
and looking over the land for the purpose of

[Column 3]
selecting a good camping place for the peo-
ple. A pioneer, a traveler, a preacher, a
scientist, a man of letters and one of the
kindest and noblest of men, such was Orson
Pratt.
	Among the choice literature of the Church
is a little volume entitled Spencer’s Letters.
It is a collection of letters explaining the
faith and doctrines of the Latter-day Saints
written by Orson Spencer to a Mr. Wil-
liam Crowel, a minister in the Baptist
church.
	Orson Spencer was a learned man, a col-
lege graduate and was himself educated for
the ministry, also the law, but having accept-
ed the gospel he gave up the prospects of the
brilliant career that seemed to await him
and laid his destiny with the Saints of God.
He died in the service of the Church while
on a mission to the States. Had he been
permitted to live longer doubtless our liter-
ature would have been much enriched from
his facile pen. He was the first chancellor
of the University of Utah and active in all
educational work among the people.
	John Taylor—apostle, poet, prophet—
throughout his long life in the Church con-
tributed largely to church literature. His let-
ters, sermons, epistles, and poems speak of
his devotion to principle, his fearlessness,
his loyalty to his people, his religion, and
his friends. The Hymn Book contains three
of his hymns, the most notable of which is
that inspiring poem The Seer, which always
calls forth the heart’s great love for Joseph
from the people in response to the telling of
his own love for him. John Taylor wrote a
very beautiful response to the poem by Par-
ley P. Pratt before quoted, on Friendship and
many other verses on the same subject to
loved friends, He edited and founded the
little periodical called the Mormon in New
York city, also founded and published in
Paris, France, a periodical called Zion’s Pa-
nier, Zion’s Banner, and made the first trans-
lation into the French and the German lang-
uages of the Book of Mormon.
	Speaking of John Taylor’s book entitled
The Government of God, Hubert H. Ban-
croft, the historian, says: “As a dissertation
on an abstract and general subject it prob-
ably has not its equal in point of ability
within the range of Mormon Literature.”
John Taylor also edited the “Nauvoo Neigh-
bor” afterwards called The Times and Sea-
sons in Nauvoo, and ever held a high place
among the literati of the Latter-day Saints.
	Of the songs written in our Hymn Book
second only to Parley P. Pratt in number,
and to no one in excellence are those
from the pen of W. W. Phelps. The most
beautiful, the most inspiring songs of
Zion are from the pen of that gifted man.
Thirty-five in number, “Redeemer of Israel”,
“Awake oh ye people,” “Come all ye sons
of Zion,” “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning,” “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers,” “Glorious things are sung of Zion”;
“Let us pray, gladly pray,” and “Praise to
the man who communed with Jehovah” and
many others fill our hearts and souls with
all the love and fervor and fire that a true poet
can call forth. Some of them are perfect epics
and he surely possessed the “divine fire.”
William G. Mills contributed two of our very
best hymns, “Arise, oh glorious Zion” and
“We’ll sing the songs of Zion.” John Lyon
wrote three well known hymns, John Jaques
five, M. A. Morton five, William Clayton two,
Edward W. Sloan five, and Charles W. Pen-
rose eight. Edward W. Sloan was also the
founder and first editor of The Salt Lake
Herald and assisted in the founding of that


[Column 1]
dear little paper—The Woman’s Exponent
—the first woman’s periodical west of the
Mississippi River.
	Its present editor Emmeline B. Wells also
claims a place among the pioneer writers of
Utah having written some fragments in the
early days for certain occasions. Her first
contribution, when quite a girl, written in
1844 and published in the Millennial Star
called “Friendship” is very touching and in
the early fifties she wrote a poem called An
Ode to Deseret in which she very beautifully
describes the wind on the desert.
	The most prominent woman in early Mor-
mon literature, however, is Eliza Roxey Snow.
She was born in Massachusetts in 1804, and
had a good literary and domestic education.
Descended from good old revolutionary an-
cestors she possessed in her character those
strong and abiding principles which mark
the saint. Even as Joan of Arc, that sweet
maid of Orleans, felt her divine calling and
accomplished her work even to her martyr-
dom and never quailed even when placed
over the burning fagots but died a true Saint,
so Eliza R. Snow from the moment of her
baptism into the new and everlasting faith
was born anew and marched through perse-
cution, poverty, sickness and heart rending
scenes to her destiny. No words so truly and
fully tell her faith in this great work as she
herself tells in the following words:

My heart is fixed I know in whom I trust
The proclamation sounded in my ear
it reached my heart—I listened to the sound
Counted the cost and laid my earthly all
Upon the altar, and with purpose fixed
Unalterably, while the spirit of Elijah’s God with-
	in my bosom reigns
Embraced the Everlasting Covenant,
And am determined now to be a Saint
And numbered with the tried and faithful ones
Whose race is measured with their life, whose joy
Is everlasting and whose happiness
Is God’s approval, and to whom ’tis more
Than meat and drink to do his righteousness.

	Before joining the Latter-day Saints Eliza
R. Snow gained some literary fame through
writing a prize story for a popular magazine.
	She was the first secretary of the Woman’s
Relief Society and prepared and preserved
the records of that organization containing
the instructions of the Prophet Joseph
Smith to the Women of Zion. She wrote
many newspaper articles and essays, also
the biography of her brother, Lorenzo Snow,
and she also wrote and published that very
interesting book of travel called The Pales-
tine Tourists. She wrote two volumes of
poetry mostly of the heroic style but the one
beautiful poem which alone would immor-
talize her name among her people is the
great doctrinal hymn called “Oh my Father”
so loved by all the Latter-day Saints.
	Perhaps the saddest, sweetest poetess we
can claim is Miss Sarah E. Carmichael. She
came to Utah when a little girl with her par-
ents from New York where she was born and
even as a school girl wrote beautiful verses,
in fact in her early life she wrote some of the
best, and most beautiful of her poems and
always proved the genius of a true poet. She
perhaps alone is the one Utah writer the
world has so far recognized.
	A little volume of her beautiful thoughts
was, published by some of her friends for
private distribution and a copy of the same
is now very rarely seen and held very pre-
cious by those who are fortunate enough to
own one. She was always a dreamer and her
last days were clouded, as Byron says “As
by a sickness of a soul.” While her poem
The Stolen Sunbeam was the one selected
by William Cullen Bryant for his collection

[Column 2]
of American poetry, some writers deem the
following poem called Dead Roses, to have
been the most beautiful. It is not in the
little volume but has been culled from some
paper in which it was printed at the time of
her death.

			DEAD ROSES.
		BY S. E. C. WILLIAMSON.
Roses, ye kissed me with lips that were brighter,
Than these that ye touched ere the yesterday 
	passed,
But now they are colder, and stiller, and whiter,
Than others that trembled awhile in life’s blast.
No matter. They weep not for blossoms that
	wither
Who bear in their bosoms the deep scar of graves
Yet any sad whisper may summon thoughts hither
That mingle our tears with Eternity’s waves.
Is there no summer land where the breath of the
	flowers
Increases in sweetness, forever and aye,
Or pass their faint sighs from this bleak world of
	ours
To thicken its vapors ot passing away?
Is there no summer world where the heart cometh
	nearer
To all that it yearns for and misses in this,
Where beauty and love are intenser and dearer
And wedded forever in widening bliss?

Roses, ye speak not—the death spell is on ye.
Ye breathe not, ye blush not, ye tremble not now;
And though to the touch of my lips I have drawn
	ye
There mute as my own stifled heart-heats ye bow;
But something too sweet to be dust on the mor-
	row
Still lingers about the pale forms that I press,
’Tis something akin both to joy and to sorrow
That clings to my soul with a passion’s caress. 
Only dead roses, yet proud brows have worn them,
With smile jewels hiding the point of each thorn;
And tender true hearts have unflinchingly borne
	them,
And veiled them with laughter to hide them from
	scorn.
Only dead roses! Yet strong spirits tremble
And bow by a breath of their sweetness oppres-
	sed;
And brave honest lips, little used to dissemble.
They hold to a lie of a truth unconfessed.

Only dead roses. Yet, who shall restore them
To summers departed and youth that is passed,
Or bring to the saddest of lives that deplore them
A hope that is sweet as the shadow they cast?
Roses—ah, poor, blighted roses!—yet sweeter
For trial that left ye so faded and changed—
Love passing the grave hath existence completer;
Affections death chastened are never estranged.
I have one changeless trust in the changing FOR-
	EVER,
There must be perfection in God’s work complete;
have dreamed of an isle in the ocean called
	NEVER,
Where the souls of the birds and the blossoms
	shall meet;
I have dreamed of a shore to the soundless
	DEATH RIVER
Where love proves its moral of NEVER IN VAIN;
Where ’tis not the cross, but the crown of the
	giver
And the dead roses gather their incense again.

	Mrs. Hannah T. King also claims a place
among pioneer writers though most of her
published writings were of a later period.
She wrote some poems for the Polysophical
Society and contributed largely to Utah
literature in some fine prose writings; also
the dearly lamented Emily H. Woodmansee
gave in her young womanhood some poems
and writings and our Hymn Book contains
six of her songs—these however are of a late
date.
	There are others too who gave some frag-
ments of song or story to early literature in
Utah, and Utah’s literary fame will spread
throughout the world and the nations will
yet sing her praise.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The incoming President of the United
States, like the outgoing President, is in
favor of the ballot for women.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Snow-
flake Stake convened at Snowflake, August
14, 1908.
	All the members of the Stake Board and
also those of the St. Johns Stake. It is the
first time our missionaries have been ap-
pointed outside of the General Board, and
though the idea was new it was none the less
acceptable to us.
	Sister Ella S. Udall’s remarks led us back
to the “days of long ago.” She spoke of the
many changes that had taken place since
her visit here twenty-five years ago and the
friendship “that used to exist between our
stakes.” Though we have had many ups
and downs we have been greatly blessed in
this land. It has certainly been a school of
experience for us.
	The Relief Society develops, makes us
broad and aids in every way. It is “a most
beautiful organization.” She also gave a
very complete report of the General Relief
Society Conference held in Salt Lake City.
	Sister Emma Patterson spoke of the duties
of Relief Society members and tenderly re-
ferred to some of her old acquaintances and
expressed pleasure in again meeting with
them.
	Miss Mary Ellsworth gave an interesting
account of her work in the Nurse Class. She
was successful in the examination before the
State Board of Utah and we are glad to have
her added to our small number of nurses.
	Sister Mary E. B. Farr spoke of being de-
pendent on the Lord for all things and not
speaking disrespectfully of the authorities.
“We can do more against them in one min-
ute than we can undo in a week.” Also
spoke of the talents God has given us and
the use we should make of them.
	Sister Nona Gibbons referred to some of
the predictions made by local brethren, how
they have been fulfilled and our ability to
serve God wherever we are.
	Sister May H. Larson read an article on
the experiences of Sister Mary A. Ellsworth
in the handcart company and a blessing that
Patriarch John Reidhead had given to the
Relief Society.
	Sister Mary A. Standiford related several
incidents of her journey across the plains
with the handcarts.
	Brother W. W. Willis gave an account of
his parents journey to Salt Lake City in
1847.
	President Mary J. R. West reported our
Stake as doing fairly well, still in some of
the wards there seems to be a lethargy.
	Said she was very much pleased with the
visit of the St. Johns sisters and expressed
gratitude for the excellent conference we
have had.
	President Samuel F. Smith said he was
pleased with the sisters efforts and hoped
they would continue in well doing.
	Brother Littleton L. Perkins also spoke a
short time.
	There were several songs interspersed with
the speaking, most of which were under the
direction of Miss Jennie Kartchner. One on
Relief Society work was composed by Mrs.
Annie H. Kartchner. Another one sung by
Mrs. Mary Porter was composed especially
for the occasion by Mrs. Ethel Westover.
	We have never had visitors at a confer-
ence who were more filled with the good
spirit or possessed a greater gift of imparting
it to others so of course, we feel our confer-
ence was a decided success.
			DELLA F. SMITH, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	NOVEMBER, 1908.


[Column 1]
THE ELECTION OF A PRESIDENT.
“There is a tide in the affairs of men
Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune.”
	A national election is always interesting
and generally somewhat sensational. Cer-
tainly the last election has been very much
so. The writer recalls the first election
within her recollection, when William
Henry Harrison was elected President of
the United States, though she was a very
little girl; it was what might be termed an
illustrated campaign, or even spectacular, for
such it really was.
	To the children it was exceedingly pictur-
esque. Those who witnessed the street
parades and the pageantries can never for-
get them; log cabins on wheels, imitation
barrels of hard cider and all the parapher-
nalia of scenery that could be improvised to
attract the voters and excite the populace.
	Campaign songs on new subjects were
quite in vogue, and everywhere the refrain
“Tippecanoe and Tyler too” was echoed by
the children as familiarly as “Yankee
Doodle.” There was a bitter tirade against
Van Buren, and we children thought he
must be a monster.
	Such campaigns are more or less demor-
alizing, and nowadays, after half a century
or more of the rapid progress of civilization
of which people boast so much, there ought
not to be such bitterness and strife between
the opposing parties, as there seems to be
whenever a national election is in progress.
	People come to their sober senses after-
wards, but one hears more or less of frauds
and deceptions until the inauguration of the
President takes place, and then politicians
are busy watching party maneuvers.
With vigilant eyes, ever watching the foes,
Who are prowling around them and aiming their
	blows.”
	The campaign in Utah has been an excit-
ing one for other reasons than the two
parties would make it, and women have per-
haps been more active than ever hereto-
fore, there certainly seemed to be much at
stake, that would naturally arouse women,
especially mothers of families to feel it was
time for them to show their colors and to
stand for liberty; and having equal suffrage
why not use it and make it a power for
freedom. There was an incentive to be up
and doing and the women of Utah rose to
the occasion valiantly.
	Even women who are indifferent to the
ballot, and rather careless about voting,
were anxious to exercise their privileges and
to use their influence where it would be

[Column 2]
effective for the best interests of the com-
monwealth. Very little, if any ill-will or
party-feeling was apparent among the
women voters, they were loyal to the heart’s
core.
	In a very pronounced way this election
has been educational politically. Women
who had taken little interest in public affairs
or questions have been reading the litera-
ture distributed and have been enlightened
on national issues. It is as much the duty
of women to comprehend the matters of
government as men, for they are the teach-
ers of men, at least, while they are boys,
not only in the home at the fireside, but
thousands of women in the public schools.
Women who travel nowadays get enlight-
ened on certain subjects when they attempt
to bring home expensive articles from other
countries, and find themselves out of pocket
or involved in litigation.
	However now that civil government is
taught in the schools and studied in wom-
en’s clubs the country over, there is little ex-
cuse for ignorance on matters of grave
importance. The women of at least most
of the states have had suffrage campaigns
that have reached the homes remote from
the great cities and so much literature has
been distributed, that it would seem women
everywhere are posted on the great ques-
tions of the day in both parties. And it is
quite noticeable that women generally are
not as partisan as men are. The great suf-
frage teachers have inculcated in their
teachings the principle of tolerance in this
respect and it has been one of the helpful
influences in the suffrage organizations
throughout the world wherever women are
making efforts for enfranchisement.
	With the wide popularity of Mr. Bryan,
who is really so mnch better known than
Mr. Taft, it is strange that so few votes were
cast for him. That it was really a Repub-
lican victory there is no denying. It cannot
be attributed to the man, as it wculd prob-
ably have been if Theodore Roosevelt had
consented to the clamor of the party lead-
ers and allowed his name to appear for a
third term. Mr. Bryan has certainly proven
himself a generous gentleman in facing the
results of the situation so gracefully and
nobly as he has done; and has won for him-
self the honor and admiration of the people
in meeting his defeat heroically. “A great
man struggling in the arms of fate.”
	Woman suffrage is still a novelty even in
the states where they have voted for years,
and when a national election is on there is
more or less agitation, especially if women
are asking for any privileges. Miss Susan
B. Anthony said many years ago, “men will
be very unwilling to give women places of
emolument or trust,” and her words have
been verified in most instances, except
where the salaries were very small; it is a
pity that it is true; here and there a few
men are generous and broad-minded and
even helpful in the election of women.
Notably in Utah this year one thinks so,
but out of all the women in the state only
two, one in each party, were nominated to
be voted for to fill positions. Of course
men think women should be very grateful
to them if they get anything in the
way of office with a salary attached.
	In the recent election women were very
much in evidence, and were enthusiastic or
quite, as much so as men, if they did not
make as much noise at public gatherings, or
sing campaign songs. However, there are
many subjects in legislative work that

[Column 3]
women could and do understand quite as
well as men, and it is the ardent hope of a
large number of Utah women, that the time
will come ere long, that women may have a
place in public affairs that will give them an
opportunity to help make and enforce laws
that will be for the promotion of the welfare
of all concerned.
	We can, however with all propriety, con-
gratulate ourselves here in Utah on the suc-
cess of the election, and hope and believe
that the future of this dear commonwealth
will be in safe hands, and the best interests
of the people not be jeopardized by schem-
ing and designing men.
	The pioneers who made the country habi- 
table cannot possibly be considered usurp-
ers; they have known what it was to sweat
and toil and face all sorts of dangers and
difficulties, and their sons and daughters
and those who came here to remain, who
believe in justice and equality, should also
help to
	“Uphold the right though fierce the fight,
	And powerful the foe,” etc.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are so many important happenings
in the world today, that it seems very es-
sential we should have means sufficient to
admit of publishing our little paper more
regular, and it is necessary in order to do
this to secure more subscribers and that
they should pay down. We are now offer-
ing an inducement that we hope may be
successful in this regard. It is the picture
of Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, which is declared by those
who knew her intimately to be a very good
likeness, offered to any new subscriber and
to any of those now taking the paper who
will pay up and prepay for one year ahead.
Also any of those who have discontinued
the paper if they will renew subscription.
To all agents everywhere the same terms
as formerly, including the picture, and we
feel the Woman’s Exponent, that has done
so much for the women of the Latter-day
Saints is deserving of their continued pat-
ronage. In the Relief Society, in all the
wards and stakes of Zion it is indispens-
able.

	The Eglishwoman’s Review has now
been published half a century, and its edi-
tor says in the October number of this year
that
	“Any chronicle of the history of the
‘Review’ would be equivalent to writing that
of the whole woman’s movement, of which
it is itself the principal register.	*	*	*
Or the whole story of the Parliamentary
vote for women on the like terms as it is
granted to men. Each of these would fill
many volumes, and the volumes have been
written in plenty, but one may certainly say
that all through the rise and progress of the
various movements, the Englishwoman’s
Review has been the one contemporary and
living chronicle of their history in the mak-
ing of its “Annual Register,” in fact as the
work of Edmund Burke was the political
history of his day. It bears, we may say,
the same relation to the woman’s movement
that medieval work as the Anglo Saxon
Chronicle, Matthew’s Paris, William of
Worcester and Gregory have to the events of
their own time, and is worthy to be serious-
ly regard in times to come as the firsthand
and practically original source of informa-
tion on its special subjects.”


This is only an extract from the leading
article in the October number of the present
year. What the editor of the “Review” has
said of that paper we can truthfully affirm
regarding the Woman’s Exponent as a
chronicle of the woman’s movement along
many lines in the west. Therefore we
earnestly beseech the women of our people
to use their best efforts to maintain their
own paper.


And the divine ministering Christmas
angels softly breathed upon the aged brows
of both toiling human angels, for God was
indeed over them all!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MINISTERING CHRISTMAS ANGELS.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES.
	The usual subdued buzz of conversation
in the teacher’s meeting at the Relief Soci-
ety hall; was greatly augmented that day by
the heap of Christmas parcels which quite
hid the placid president of the Society, as
they were piled in various attractive looking
bundles on the table before her. She stood
up to say:
	Sisters, our friends have been very gen-
erous, this holiday season, and a great bless-
ing, for we have seldom had so many poor
and sick among us who need our help. We
will dismiss our meeting early, to permit
you to begin your distributing this after-
noon, and if there is any special case of
want or distress call upon us for nurses
or what may be needed. We will ask the
sisters appointed for this block to take this
money to the widow in the row, for her
medicine and doctor bills.”
	Two white-haired women approached the
table and added the money to their other
parcels.
	A benediction was spoken, then the dozen
women dispersed with cheery salutations,
and the two block sisters took the heavy
basket between them and turned down a
side street. Both were white-haired, slen-
der and small. Both wore quaint and
charming old-style English bonnets upon
their snowy locks with the infinite grace of
English ladies. Both were widows and
both had passed through three score and
ten years.
	Halting at a shabby cottage door, they
entered in response to an invitation from a
childish voice, a small, but comparatively
clean room.
	“Is your mother out today?” inquired
Mrs. Forsberry.
	“Yes, she got a chance to clean some
offices, and she thinks now she can take
care of us all.”
	The cripple child who spoke with the soft
roundness of the South in her tones, lifted
a thin hand to offer greetings to the teach-
ers, while her eyes shone as they deposited
a half dozen parcels on the table.
	“Mother is sure grateful to you for all
your kindness to us all since we came from
Florida. Allie, don’t touch the things. Jim,
you better let those strings alone.”
	But the two half starved children greedily
tore open some of the parcels of goodies de-
signed for Christmas stockings and filled
hands and mouths with raisins, content
with present prosperity and quite willing to
make this serious draft upon future culi-
nary possibilities. The little cripple’s mild
suggestions for proper deportment fell on
hungry, heedless ears. What were Relief
Society “teachers” and “manners” to
yearning cavities in a boy’s anatomy?
	As the two little ladies withdrew, the
elder one said softly:
	“I’ll get my Emma to make a good batch
of bread and take over to those hungry
children. Did you see those scraps of

[Column 2]
heavy, sour bread on their table? It makes
me feel half wicked to see folks so destitute
in this land of plenty.”
	“Most of us work for all we get, dear
friend, and God is over all.”
	With which piece of world-wide spiritual
philosophy, the good souls picked up their
baskets and proceeded on their way,
	It was a weary way they trod. But
they murmured not. They knew they were
only two of six thousand like themselves,
who were facing the storms of winter
that bitter Christmas Eve to bring
comfort to the poor and needy. Now it
was a house filled with the somber clouds of
death and poverty. Again it was aged inval-
dism, united to shiftless youth. Then
sickness claimed the working head of a
struggling household, and the temporary re-
lief was like the broken rift in a leaden sky,
cut by the Bun in his brilliant and hope-
giving path. Next laziness and ill-luck
made havoc with helpless children, but
these must not be forgotten. And every
where the tender ministrations of the two
white-souled human angels brought an at-
mosphere of peace and encouragement.
They chided not, neither did they judge.
They just loved and helped.
	When they peached the widow in the row
of tiny tenement houses built in a lane,
they were very tired. But the look of su-
preme gratitude on the flushed face of the
fever-stricken woman on the scanty bed
brightened the tired faces of the visitors.
When the money was laid in the hand of
the youthful lad who was his mother’s only
help and attendant, there was a pean of
homely gratitude to God and his minister-
ing daughters uttered by both mother and
son, which transported the little old ladies
into that region where only the benevolent
can enter.
	Could you put your hands upon my
head before you go, and ask God to heal
me?” asked the sick woman. “It seems
like you sisters’ prayers would reach heaven
right quick.”
	And the two visitors knelt and prayed
with touching simplicity that those shining
ones who had accompanied them filled the
whole room with their own divine radiance.
	Once more on the sidewalk, both flooded
with the benediction of the grateful peace
they had just quitted in the dingy room of
the row they spoke not for a few moments.
Then,
	“We know in whom we trust,” said the
younger woman. “How good He is to us
all!”
	“Yes,” murmured her companion, “God
is over all!”
	And then they parted, one to go to her
daughter’s noisy mansion, filled with the
confused happiness of children and comfort,
the other to enter the tiny portal of her one-
roomed home, where she dwelt alone with
her own chastened heart and the angels.
And the one whispered to herself as she
entered the plate glass door of her daugh-
ter’s home,
	“How good the Lord is to me. I have my
home in the halls of plenty and peace, sur-
rounded by loving hearts and happy chil-
dren. Surely God is over all!”
	And the other, as she stood on the sag-
ging porch of her home, unfastening the
rude lock of her poor little door, murmured,
	“How good the Lord is to me! I have
the dear quiet of unbroken silence with
which to bathe my tired spirit. And I have
to thank no one for my crust and my bed.
Surely God is over all!”


TWENTY NINTH ANNIVERSARY.
	It is seldom in the history of a woman’s
organization that the same officers all re-
main in so many years.
	The minutes of the meeting of the 29th
anniversary of the 12th ward Relief Society
held July 14, 1908. President Julia Druce
presiding. Commenced by singing “Guide
Us Oh Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by
Bishop F. B. Platt. Singing “Oh Ye Moun-
tains High.”
	Minutes of last annual meeting read and
approved. Counselor Jemima Midgley gave
an address of welcome to all present. Miss
Doret Evans gave a piano selection. Miss
Clare Williams sang a song entitled “Oh
Love Divine.” Mrs. Margaret Romney gave
a brief account of her trip to Honolulu.
Mrs. Ethel Druce Leaver sang a boIo. Mrs.
Emma Derrick gave an interesting reading.
The 12th ward quartette gave a selection.
Miss Winnefred Tibbetts gave a select read-
ing.
	An address on Relief Society work was
given by Mrs. Annie K. Hardy also she read
the minutes of the meeting of the organiza-
tion of the Society 29 years ago when the
present officers were appointed and they
have served ever since.
	Miss Elma Young then sang a song and
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith addressed the
meeting said she was present at the meeting
when Joseph Smith the Prophet organized
the first Relief Society, March 17, 1842. She
knew that he was inspired of God; she urged
the young sisters to join this society; knew
the sisters were blessed in doing their duty.
She enjoyed working in the Temple, she
spent the greater part, of her time in the
Temple, she also enjoyed Relief Society work.
	Mrs. Xenia Druce Schroder gave a piano
selection.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells addressed the
sisters; told of the benefits and blessings
derived rrom the Relief Society work and the
magnificent work in the Temples; explained
the wide field of effort and endeavor for all
wonaen in modern times.
	President Richard Young, Doctor Sey-
mour B. Young, Ex-Bishop H. B. Clawson,
Ex-Bishop T. A. Williams, each spoke en-
couraging words to the sisters and applauded
their good works in the past and the promis-
ing prospects for future labors.
	An announcement was made of the Relief
Society excursion to Wandamere the day to
be the 21st of July, 1908. Closing hymn
Doxology. Benediction, Brother Joshua
Midgley.
	Supper was served at 6:30 p. m. to all
present and a most delightful occasion it
was.
			AMELIA WARDROP,
						Secretary.


“The Pioneer Mother.” Mrs. Irving Moul-
ton presided recently at a meeting in San
Francisco, called by Mrs. Philip Verrill
Mighels, to consider the erection of a statue
to the pioneer mother, not only of California,
but of all lands.
	Miss Margaret Smith, B.A., is a candidate
for the City Council of Birmingham, Eng-
land. Women were made eligible last year.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Liberty
Stake Relief Society was held in the 9th
ward meetinghouse Thursday, June 25, 1908.
President Anna S. Musser presiding.
	We had with us Sister Annie W. Cannon
and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the general board,
also Sister Maria Y. Dougal of the Y. L. M.
I. A.
	The soloists at the morning session were
Miss Brain and Sister Eva James.
	After the opening exercises, and address
of welcome by President Musser, Counselor
Mary E. Hodgson presented the names of
the general and stake officers who were un-
animously sustained.
	The Statistical and the Financial report
was read and accepted, and the Presidents
of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 8th and Liberty wards
each reported her respective society to be
in a flourishing and prosperous condition.
	Sister Maria Y. Dougal read a paper on
the life of Sister Zina D. H. Young, and
Sister Annie W. Cannon spoke to the sisters
for a short time.
	Adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	At the afternoon session, Mr. Brain favor-
ed us with a solo, and Sister Maude Paul
read a paper on the “The Simple Life of
Christ.”
	Sisters Wilcox, Cannon and Dougal, gave
us many good instructions, spoke words of
comfort and good cheer, also gave instruc-
tions to the officers, teachers and missiona-
ries.
	Sister Loyd spoke for a short time to
mothers, and Sister Eva James testified to
the goodness of God to her, during the re-
cent illness of her family.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success, speaking words of
love and comfort to all present, and giving
instructions to missionaries and teachers.
	After the closing exercises, conference ad-
journed for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS,
						Secretary.
			UNION STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Union
Stake, held July 19, 1908, President Mary
Schofield presiding. After singing, and
prayer by Brother J. R. Price, singing and
other opening exercises, reports of different
wards were given.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley, of the General
Board, said that every family should have
at least one representative in the Relief
Society to work for the advancement and
betterment of the people.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon, of the General
Board, said we were certainly blessed to see
and hear the president of the Church and
some of the twelve apostles. The calling of
a Relief Society teacher is the noblest call-
ing a woman can have. The storing of grain
is not a fad but the commandment of a
prophet of God.
	The names of the General and Stake
officers were then presented and sustained.
After singing and benediction by Brother F.
S. Bramwell, conference adjourned until
evening.
	Evening Session.—After singing and
prayer a recitation was given by Sister Eva
Rosenbaum.
	Sister Annie W. Cannon said she was
pleased to see so many young people out to
the meeting. Spoke of the kind of liter-

[Column 2]
ature mothers should allow their children to
read.
	Sister Nibley said parents should set the
example of keeping the Word of Wisdom
before their children.
	President Bramwell spoke of the duties
of the teachers. They should be energetic
and act as guardians of the people.
	Brother George Stoddard endorsed what
had been said during the conference. The
Relief Society was doing a great work.
Every one has a mission on this earth; not
only to save themselves but others.
	Sister Helen Geddes then sang “Daugh-
ters of Zion,” written by Sister Annie W.
Cannon.
	President Mary Schofield said the various
wards had responded generously when called
on for their allotment of the fund on March
17. Said she appreciated the privilege of
holding the conference on Sunday.
	After singing and benediction by Sister
Mary L. Ransom, conference adjourned.
			ETHEL BEAN Ass’t Sec.
		MILLARD STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Millard Stake held at Fillmore, July 31,
1908. President I. E. Robison presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises President
I. E. Robison was pleased to see so many in
attendance, hoped we would not feel disap-
pointed because President Hinckley and the
visiting brethren were not present, as they
were holding meeting at Hinckley the object
being to dedicate the Relief Society Hall
that they have just completed, and to re-
organize that Relief Society.
	President Emma Watts of Kanosh, Presi-
dent Mary A. Stephenson of Holden, Presi-
dent M. E. Bushnell of Meadow, Counselor
Maggie Hatch of Scipio, President Melissa
Olsen of Fillmore and President Ann E. Ly-
man of Oak City, each gave a very good re-
port of the work they were doing laboring
for the poor and sick, preparing the dead for
burial, storing wheat, building halls and
granaries, and each one reported an improve-
ment in Society work.
	Elder Orvil Thompson of the Stake Presi-
dency said the Officers of the Relief Society
were superior women inasmuch as they were
doing a superior work, read a passage bear-
ing on Charity. There is no power for good
more potent than the influence of women,
felt the labors of the Relief Society were ap-
preciated.
	Counselor Adeline Smith had enjoyed
visiting the different branches, was thank-
ful for the experiences. A woman’s mission
is to make the home and use her influence
for the betterment of her family.
	President Isabella E. Robison spoke of the
call for more students to take the Nurse
Course, alluded to the lack of nurses who
belong to our faith, this is a calling we
should try to encourage, asked the sisters to
support the Woman’s Exponent. Said there
were over thirty thousand women enrolled
in the Relief Society in the Church.
	After singing benediction by P. T. Brun-
son.
	Relief Society adjourned until evening ses-
sion at which many good testimonies were
given and much good instruction, adjourned
for three months.
			MARINDA BENNETT,
							Secretary.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Conference of Nebo Stake Relief Society
held June 19, 1908, Spanish Fork. Presi-

[Column 3]
dent Eliza J. Dixon, presiding. Sisters
Phebe Y. Beatie and Rebecca E. Little be-
ing present as visitors from the General
Board, and all the officers of Nebo Stake
present except one. Conference commenced
by singing, etc., and usual exercises. A
few words of welcome were spoken by Sis-
ter Holt of Spanish Fork First Ward.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon presiding. She
reported Nebo Stake in excellent condition.
Sister Sharer report Payson First Ward, Sis-
ter Potter reported Payson Second Ward.
Sister Holt reported Spanish Fork First
Ward.
	Song by Sister Anna Lewis. Sister Beatie
congratulated Nebo Stake on their good
work, also spoke of amusement for the
young, don’t shut up the parlor from the
children, but teach them to take care of
good things and throw everything nice
around them, and go with them to their
places of amusement, and go home with
them and be one of them; said our children
must get a testimony for themselves, lead
them in that influence that will help them
to gain a testimony. Be good mothers.
	Sister Bradford reported Spanish Fork
Second Ward, Sister Jones, Spanish Fork
Third Ward, Spanish Fork Fourth Ward re-
ported by Sister Swensen.
	Sister R. E. Little referred to the good re-
ports that had been given; said the oftener
we meet in conference capacity the better
we get acquainted and learn the good quali
ties of our sisters, thought mothers should
not stay at home with their children but
take them to meeting, if they do cry some-
times.
	After singing and benediction conference
adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon session, President Dixon pre-
siding. Singing and prayer. General and
Stake officers were presented and sustained.
A poem was then read that was written by
Annie Wells Cannon entitled “Daughters of
Zion.”
	A short talk was given by Sister Emma
Hitchinson, “Our Home and What it Should
Be.”
	Song by Sister Anna Beck entitled “Some
Time, Some Where.”
	Sister R. E. Little spoke a short time on
Relief Society work; also of a visit she had
made to Palmyra in the central part of New
York State where Joseph Smith had lived in
the 19th century, and described the place
very beautifully.
	A musical selection was rendered by Sis- 
ter Tjern Lewis, entitled “The Last Hope.”
Sister Beatie spoke on the Nurse Class work.
	Brother Swensen spoke on Relief Society
work, said “the brethren are interested in
the work as well as the sisters.” Bishop
Hales spoke of the good the Relief Society
was doing. Bishop Argyle spoke a few
words of encouragement.
	Bishop Argyle of Lake Shore spoke a short
time on the Relief Society grain.
	Bishop McKell spoke of the help the mis-
sionaries had received from the missionary
fund in the Relief Society.
	Sister Dixon made a few closing remarks
of appreciation to the people of Spanish
Fork for the splendid entertainment and
hospitality received at their hands. Con-
ference closed by singing and benediction.
				ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
						Cor. Secretary.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 46, also 2nd annual
Relief Society conference held in the Uintah
Stake tabernacle, August 4, 1908.


[Column 1]
	There were on the stand Stake Counselor
Don B. Colton, one Patriarch, several High
Councilors, and Bishops, Sisters Susan Grant
and Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the General
Board from Salt Lake City, and a good rep-
resentation of Relief Society officers of the
Stake.
	In the absence of President Sarah M.
Colton, Counselor Nancy A. Colton pre-
sided.
	After the opening exercises, Counselor
Nancy A. Colton welcomed the brethren
and sisters, also reported the Stake in good
condition, all the wards had been visited
the last quarter, she also spoke of President
Sarah M. Colton’s illness.
	Lecture by Miss Almeda Perry, entitled
“Cheerfulness.” The lecture was very
ably handled.
	Violin solo by Miss Mabel Hansen, assist-
ed by Miss Hazel Johnson.
	Report from Naples Relief Society by
Mrs. Annie Casper,
	Sister Susan Grant said she felt pleased
to meet the brethren and sisters in such a
beautiful building, had been pleased with
the reports and also the lecture, she spoke at
some length on cheerfulness she testified
of having the privilege of being acquuainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith and what a
noble being he was, also testified of the
work that he was an instrument in the
hands of the Lord in bringing about.
	A chorus by some little girls from Maeser
led by Mrs. Merrel Colton, entitled “The
Star Spangled Banner.”
	Report by Hannah Odekirk of Vernal
Relief Society. Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth
spoke of the beautiful scenery between here
and Salt Lake City, and what a pleasure
she had in coming to visit us. Spoke of
the lecture on cheerfulness, of wbat the
early settlers had to pass through, referred
to the Mormon Batalion and their sufferings
for the Gospel’s sake. Said Romania B.
Penrose has organized 26 branches of the
Relief Society in the British Mission the
last year. She gave the number of members
as about 35,000, and the number of bushels
of grain as over 170,000.
	Mrs. Annie S. Bartlett felt to add her mite
with the rest of her brethren and sisters
referred to our yearly program. She spoke
on cheerfulness, Word of Wisdom, tithing,
and obedience.
	Cenference adjourned until 2 p. m. after
singing and benediction.
	Afternoon Session.—After the usual open-
ing exercises, sacrament was administered
while the choir sang a hymn. Then Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth said Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith wished to be remembered
to all the sisters, and would like the sisters
to get the spirit of their work. She spoke
of intemperance, and of the evils that exist
from the same, such as homes being broken
up, families being made homeless, through
drink. Spoke of the education nowadays,
compared the privileges of today with those
in former days, talked of the nurse class in
Salt Lake City, said in the last year they
had given 2,000 days nursing the sick for
charitable purposes.
	Essay from Jensen Relief Society by
Lydia Wall, entitled “Social Duties in the
Home,” which was well rendered. Song
from Naples by the Glee Club, composed of
young girls. Mary J. Hards reported Glines
Relief Society. America M. Orser reported
Jensen Relief Society. Phebe Hislop re-
reported Maeser Relief Society in good con-
dition.
	Recitation by Mrs. Jean Merkley. In-

[Column 2]
strumental music from Glines ward by
Hazel Johnson.
	Sister Susan Grant thought every one had
been pleased; she had been very much edi-
fied and pleased for coming: felt to encour-
age the sisters in their Relief Society work;
she enumerated the duties of the Relief So-
ciety sisters and spoke in particular of the
teachers’ duties, referred to Nauvoo, where
the first Relief Society was organized, also to
the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his brother Hyrum, she had the
privilege of seeing them after the martyr-
dom. Told of the early pioneers in Salt
Lake Valley in 1847, and the hardships they
had to pass through.
	Brother Don B. Colton thought all had
been paid for coming to conference, it made
his soul rejoice when he heard brethren and
sisters bear their testimonies that knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith, he bore his testi-
mony that he knew that Joseph Smith was
a prophet of God. Spoke at some length on
prohibition, he gave statistics of the divor-
ces and of children who had been made
homeless through drink.
	Patriarch Nelson Merkley thought we had
had a feast of good things ever since we
entered the house, said he wondered when
Sister Grant entered the Salt Lake valley if
she ever thought she would be called to
visit the different Stakes of Zion. Spoke of
the inconvenience the sisters have in getting
to meeting where they live in such a scat-
tered condition.
	Counselor Nancy A. Colton thanked
all who had helped in our Confer-
ence. Spoke of the young sisters be-
longing to the Relief Society, we should
teach our children that the Relief Society is
the mother of all other woman’s organiza-
tiyns.
	Annual Conference adjourned for one year
after singing and benediction.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Hill Maughan, wife of the late
Bishop William H. Maughan, died at her home in
Wellsville, on October 3, 1908, after an illness of
about a year. She was born February 14, 1838,
in Upper Toronto, Canada. She immigrated to
Utah in 1852, and came to Wellsvile in 1856, where
she has resided ever since. She endured all the
hardships of pioneer life, she was the mother of
ten children, nine of whom survive her,, six sons
and three daughters, also fifty-four grandchildren
and seven great grandchildren.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,
	Whereas our Father in heaven has in his infi-
nite wisdom removed from among us our worthy
and dearly loved sister, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation with her
in the faithful discharge of her duty as a counsel-
or in the Society makes it fitting that we record our
appreciation. Wherefore
	Resolved that the wisdom and ability which she
exercised in our midst by service and counsel
will he held in grateful remembrance.
	Resolved that we sincerely mourn her depar-
ture from us, but appreciate her past faithful
labors and know that she has gone to receive the
reward for labors well performed. She held the
position of first counselor to Sister Elizabeth Sal-
isbury for the period of 18 years in the Wellsville
Relief Society, which duty she performed in an
energetic and exemplary manner and won the
love and respect of those with whom she associ-
ated in that capacity. 
	Resolved that we place these resolutions on our
records, present a copy to the family, and also
send one to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
	Sarah A. Parker, Pres.; Elizabeth Salisbury,
Elizabeth Owens, Jerusha B. Maughan, Agnes
Allan, Mary J. Parker, Sec.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	The members of the South Relief Society
of the West Weber Ward, North Weber Stake
of Zion, gave a very pleasant surprise party
on their president Sister Sarah Hunter on
her seventieth birthday, November 9, 1908.
The party gathered at her home at 11:30 p.
m. and at 12 o’clock some thirty brethren
and sisters were seated at a beautiful table
spread with the most delicious bounties of
life provided by the members of the Society.
The afternoon was spent in singing, speak-
ing by the brethren, comic readings, and
phonograph music; after which supper was
served before going home. The party was
in every way a success and a merry day was
spent.
				EMILY ISAACSON.


PORTLAND RELIEF SOCIETY.
	In the latter part of last July Sisters Em
ma Holling, President, and Sadie M. Pratt
and Elsie A. Jorgensen, Counselors, of the
Portland Relief Society tendered their resig-
nations which were accepted by unanimous
vote of the Branch.
	On the 26th of July the Society was reor-
ganized under the direction of the Portland
Branch Presidency as follows: President
Sadie M. Pratt, 1st Counselor Petrine Wes-
tergard, 2nd Counselor Ada Nibley, Secretary
Ida Day, Ass’t Secretary Xemina Holling,
Treasurer Agnes Nibley. These sisters were
unanimously sustained by vote, and they
were set apart the same day for their labors.
	Since the reorganization was affected
there have been ten sisters called to act as
teachers and are doing a work which is
astonishing in its results. The names of
these teachers are: Ida Becker, Elsie A. Jor-
gensen, Millie Hardy, Helen Davenport,
Janie White, Rose Palmer, Amelia Kimball,
Annie Hurl, Hilma Pratt, Annie C. Olsen.
	On the first Monday in every month we
hold an officers and teachers meeting to hear
the reports of teachers, to counsel together
and receive instruction. On the first Thurs-
day in each month we have a testimony
meeting which is preceded by a short lecture
on “Mother’s Work.” On the second Thurs-
day in each month we have a working meet-
ing and on the third Thursday a meeting for
lectures and questions on the Book of Mor-
mon.
	We have an enrollment of members num-
bering 39 with an average attendance of 14,
and our meetings are often very interesting.
There are six subscribers to the “Woman’s
Exponent” among our members, and they
prize the Journal very highly.
	Hoping you and the sisters at the head
will some times remember us and that we
may hear from you occasionally, we sub-
scribe ourselves,
	Sincerely and Respectfully
	Your Sisters in the Cause of Truth,
		SADIE M. PRATT, President,
		IDA DAY, Secretary.


We have received recently news of the
passing away of John W. Hutchinson of
Lynn, Mass., the last survivor of the famous
Hutchinson family of singers, whose voices
were for so many years a power in behalf of
anti-slavery, temperance, woman suffrage
and other reforms; also of the death of Miss
Mary F. Eastman, in past years one of the
most witty, logical and effective speakers in
Massachusetts for woman suffrage.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
		NATIONAL OCUNCIL OF WOMEN.
	The National Council of Women will hold
its Seventh Annual Executive Meeting, be-
ginning November 15th, 1908, at Union
City, Indiana; the invitation from the Local
Council of Union City, Indiana, having been
accepted. The business meetings will be
held in the Christian Church, corner of Oak
and Plum Streets. It is expected that a
platform meeting will be held either in the
Opera House or at the Church Sunday after-
noon, when addresses will be give by various
speakers.
	The Branham and Murray Hotels are the
best in the city. Rates have been secured
as follows: Branham Hotel, $2.00 per day;
Hotel Murray, $1.00 per day.
	Arrangements have been made by the
members of the Union City Local Council
to entertain those of the delegates who pre-
fer entertainment in private homes. Please
correspond with Mrs. Mabel R. Keltuer, 623
Pearl Street, Union City, Indiana, in regard
to entertainment in the homes. For enter-
tainment in hotels, correspond direct with
the manager of the hotel.
	In the absence of Mrs. Kate Waller Bar-
rett, Chairman of the Program Committee,
and Mis. M. Josie Nelson, Treasurer, who
has charge of the general arrangements in
Union City, Indiana, the officers of affiliated
societies are requested to confer with Mrs.
Lillian M. Hollister, Correspoding Secretary,
317, Kirby Avenue West, Detroit, Michigan,
at once in regard to their appointees, also
to nominate such speakers as they desire to
have on the program. Suggestions as to
subjects for discussion on the program will
be gladly welcomed. A speedy reply is soli-
cited as the time is limited.
	Each society of National Scope affiliated
with the National Council of Women is en-
titled to two delegates in addition to their
President; State Councils are entitled to one
delegate besides the President; Local Coun-
cils are entitled to Presidents only. The
Chairman of all standing committees or their
proxy are also eligible to attend all sessions
of the Council, with all the privileges of a
delegate, including a vote.
	Each affiliated society is requested to for-
ward immediately to the Corresponding
Secretary, Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, a com-
plete list of its delegation for the Official
Roster.
	It is desired that we shall have a full re-
presentation from our various societies, as
at this meeting the delegates to the quin-
quennial to be held in Toronto, Ontario,
June, 1909, will be elected. We also expect
to hear the report of the special meeting of
the International Council recently held at
Geneva, which I am sure will be of great
interest to all.
	Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, Pres.;
	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Vice-Pres.;
	Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, Cor. Sec.;
	Mrs. Frances E. Burns, Rec. Sec.;
	Mrs. M. Josie Nelson, Treasurer.

		PRESS COMMENT.
	The seventeenth annual executive of the
National Council of Women of the United
States is one of the most important meetings
in the History of the Council, as the quin-
quennial of the International Council of
Women is to be held in Toronto, Ontario,
during the month of June, 1909, and at this
meeting delegates will be elected from the
American Council to attend the same. The
International Council of Women is a body
composed of about twenty-two countries of
which the United States is one. We feel

[Column 2]
very proud of the fact as this is the first time
the International Council has met upon this
side of the water.
	The objects and general policy of the Na-
tional Council of Women of the United Sta-
tes may be best understood, perhaps, by
quoting from the constitution adopted at the
organization.
	“We, the women of the United States
sincerely believing that the best good of our
homes and nation will be advanced by our
own greater unity of thought, sympathy and
purpose, and that an organized movement
of women will best conserve the highest
good of the family and the state, do hereby
unite ourselves in a confederation of work-
ers committed to the overthrow of all forms
of ignorance and injusiice, and to the appli-
cation of the Golden Rule to society, custom,
and law.
	“This federation shall be called the Na-
tional Council of Women in the United
States.
	“This Council is organized in the interest
of no one propaganda, and has no power
over the organizations which constitute it,
beyond that of suggestion and sympathy:
therefore, no organization voting to enter
this Council shall thereby render itself liable
to be interfered with in respect to its com-
plete organic unity, independence or manner
of work, or be committed to any principle
or method of any other organization or to
any act or utterance of the Council itself,
beyond compliance with the terms of this
constitution.”
	There are seventeen National and nine Local
Councils affiliated with the National Council
of Women of the United States, representing
over one million and five hundred thousand
women.
	The work of the National Council has
been along many and varied lines, some of
which are divorce reform, equal pay for
equal work, dress, education in citizenship,
domestic science, social peace and interna-
tional arbitration, social purity, and care for
defective and deformed children, equal stand-
ard of morals, tuberculosis, political equality
and art and literature. Each subject is in
charge of a competent standing committee
who will report the progress made at this
executive.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	The suffragists of New York City had
seven polling places open on election day,
at which women were invited to cast their
votes. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt was among
the first to do so. In all, 1977 votes were
cast, most of them for Taft.
	Judge Lindsey of the Denver Juvenile
Court writes on “The Public Schools and
Morality,” in the Housekeeper for November.
It is one of the articles in the series, “The
Truth about the Public Schools.” Any par-
ent who is complacently sure that everything
is all right would do well to read what one
of the most noted students of child life has
to say. On the other hand, the article will
cheer those who are despondent about con-
ditions.

[Column 2]
	At the opening exercises of the law class
of the Woman’s Legal Education Society at
the University of the City of New York, No-
vember 2, before a large gathering of women,
Chancellor McCracken prefaced his address
by reading from an article against suffrage,
written by Mrs. Humphry Ward to an Ameri-
can magazine, advocating political work by
women in local matters, and condemning
them for desiring the imperial franchise.
Taking this as his text, without endorsement
or repudiation, the Chancellor said: “The
principal need of the hour is information as
to how far the suffrage has been extended
to women, and its results in municipal bet-
terment. What high positions of responsi-
bility has it given to women? Where should
women be placed, and what are their duties
in civic action?” He added: “In a city like
ours, full of institutions and hospitals for
women and children, it is a crying shame
that no woman in authority is on the Health
Board Commission, none on the Board of
Education, etc.” He advised the Woman’s
Law Class to make a special study of the
legal aspect of the subject, and to compile
the laws and statutes so as to make a text
book of information.

		ESSAY ON PRAYER.
	“Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire.” Joseph
Smith the Prophet was desirous of becom-
ing a church member but did not like the
contention that then existed among the dif-
ferent churches, and it was through prayer
that He gained a light and knowledge of this
dispensation. Christ was desirous of doing
the will of His Father, and He realized the
fearful ordeal that was in store for Him.
He went apart from His disciples, the third
time, praying most fervently that the Father
would let the cup pass by, and His sweat
was as it were great drops of blood falling,
to the ground, but He said: “Not my will
but thine be done.” An angel appeared
from heaven to strengthen and comfort
Him; He found His disciples sleeping for
sorrow, He said unto them, “Arise and pray
that ye enter not into temptation.” He
knew that it was their hour, and an hour of
darkness, he prayed for Peter that his faith
would not fail him and that he would be a
strength to His disciples and brethren.
	The inspiration that comes to us after
prayer is what demands our utmost atten-
tion, put it into practice and work for what
we pray for, faith and works go together,
prayer will strengthen our faith, a practical
people is what we are striving to become.
	Faith and works are two hands clasped
in prayer. Before Christ appointed His
disciples He went out into the mountain
and continued all night in prayer, and that
shows there is more need of diligent action
in every time of need.
					RINTA SNOW.


The articles entitled The Sabbath Day,
also Alpine Stake Report, Women of the
19th Century, Burial Customs in England,
and Daffodils left over for want of space.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
						67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


<Holloday P. A. Mary Cowley>

								WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

