Vol. 37.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1909.						No. 5.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Stake Presidents of Relief Society....................
	.................................Annie Wells Cannon	33
A Party and Banquet.............Eliza Buckwalter	34
Obituary and Resolutions of Respect...............	34
Resolutions.......................................................	35
In Memoriam of Maria Wealthy Richards
	Wilcox...........................................E.B.W.	35
Ideal. A Dream..............................Louisa Gray	36
Relief Society Stake Reports: Emery—Liberty
	—Nebo—Oneida—North Weber.............	37
Women of the Nineteenth Century...................
	.....................................Sarepta E. Cowles	38
Keep the Sabbath Day Holy.............................
	..................................Caroline C. R.Wells	39
Lavender....................................Ethel Webling	40
Notes and News...............................................	40
Editorial:—The New Year, 1909.....................	36
Poetry:—A Stradivarius Violin........................
	.......................................May Riley Smith	33
	Daffodils..........................Martha T. Tyler	33
	Good Night...........................Ruth M. Fox	35


A STRADIVARIUS VIOLIN.
The music of this ancient violin
	Is haunted as men’s chambers sometimes are.
	Along the liquid ladder of each bar
Phantoms of pleasure dance; regret steals in,
With happier ghosts, and Fate her wheel doth
		spin,
	Torn butterflies of hope a breath did mar
	Here flutter, like a flame within a star.
And if thou wouldst, O soul, nepenthe win,
	Pause not beside this portal, lest thou hear
	The voice of thy dead sorrow whispering near!
For every passion that thy life hath known—
Anguish benumbed, and love thou thought’st
		flown—
	Among these peerless octaves veiled, wait
	To speak to thee across the stringed gate.
					MAY RILEY SMITH.


DAFFODILS.
What marvel that dear Wordsworth sings
	The glory of the daffodils?
I’ve found them, too, by lonely springs,
	In many a hollow of the hills,
And something of that pleasure known
The mountain minstrel makes his own!
In meadows which the March wind seeks
	To look for April, they are born.
They loved them much, the golden Greeks,
	The poet heroes of the davn,
Transplanting to immortal fields
The fairest flower that Nature yields.
And surely ’tis a joy supreme
	When early throstles pipe and call,
And the pale, kindly skies redeem-
	The greening earth from winter’s thrall,
To meet by pool; or tinkling rill,
The first, fine, fragile daffodil! 
I love them for the olden time,
	For some sweet vision faint and dim,
Of large delights and deeds sublime—
	I love them for the love of him
Who sang among the English hills
The glory of the daffodils.
					MARTHA T. TYLER.


[Column 1]
STAKE PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
SOME BUSY WOMEN OF THE CHURCH.
	The organization of the women of the
Latter-day Saints known as the Relief So-
ciety is operated on the general lines of or-
ganization in the Church—namely, a presi-
dency and board of directors at the head,
with a presidency and corps of assistants

[Column 2]
over each stake of Zion, and under these the
presidencies, teachers and members con-
stituting the ward society. Inasmuch as the
membership of the Relief Society is some-
thing like 35,000, the remarkably systematic
nature of its work will be evident from the
statement that the general president is kept
at all times in perfect touch with the vari-
ous charities and operations of each branch
society, no matter how small or how remote
it may be.
	There are 59 stakes of Zion and each of
these, as stated, has an organization of the
society. It is the president in each of these
stakes who is the medium between the local
workers and the general officers. All in-
structions for the conduct of the work are
communicated to the members through her,
and the work done by the members is like-
wise reported by her. It will be seen, there-
fore, that these stake presidents must needs
be very busy women in directing the affairs
of all the different wards over which they
preside and in making personal visits, not
only to the wards, but also to the homes of
the people. Some of them travel during the
year many miles over dreadful roads in order
to make these visits, while others have the
convenience of railway trains or street cars;
but whether their stakes be scattered or com-
pact, it is their duty to be personally ac-
quainted with all the work and all the work-
ers under their supervision, to know all the
conditions of the people, and to be able to
outline such policy and direct such labor as
the circumstances of their people seem to
require.
	It will be apparent that the organizations
having the most work to perform in a char-
ity sense are those located in and near the
larger cities, Salt Lake, Ogden, etc. In fact
the first Relief Society stake organization of
the Church was that of the Weber stake
where Mrs. Jane S. Richards presided with
untiring zeal for the welfare of the people
for 31 years. Besides overseeing the affairs
of the many wards in that large stake,
she personally visited hundreds of homes to
alleviate suffering and took to her own home
and provided for the immediate wants of
countless transients and wayfarers. Her re-
sidence in Ogden was so near the railway
station that she never had to look far for op-
portunity to give relief. She only retired
from her arduous work when Weber stake
was recently subdivided and new organiza-
tions were formed—and this when she had
reached the glorious age of 86 years in the
cycle of life.
	The original Salt Lake stake Relief Socie-
ty was presided over 27 years by that most
worthy and benevolent woman, Mary Isa-
bella Horne, whose name will ever be re-
vered among the women of Zion for the wise
counsel, her tender ministrations to the sick
and those who were called to mourn, and
for the wonderful skill and prudence with
which she directed the charity and business
affairs of the association under her charge.
It was under the direction of Mrs. Horne
that the class of Relief Society Nurses was
inaugurated, with Dr. Roberts as instructor
and Mrs. W. W. Riter as superintendent, the
purpose being to provide trained help for

[Column 3]
the needy sick instead of relying altogether
on the Relief Society workers, who already
had so much to do. Out of that part of the
vineyard over which Mrs. Horne presided
with such signal ability, six stakes have
since been created—Jordan, Granite, Liber-
ty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and Ensign.
	The stake Relief Society of the first-named
is presided over by Mrs. Hildah H. Larsen.
Composed mostly of a farming community,
the people generally, while not rich, are not
poor; and the labors of the Society are di-
rected more to taking care of the sick than
in relieving want.
	A large part of Granite stake, like Jordan,
is rural; but there is also a large part thick-
ly settled by renters and people of unstable
incomes—those who work hard when work
is to be had but depend largely on the con-
dition of the times for their employment.
The Society in this stake is presided over
by Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff and the labors
of the organization are many and varied.
Some of the most interesting conferences of
women held in the Church are held in Gra-
nite stake, and splendid efforts are being
made to educate the women along the lines
of Church history and biography. Clothing
is gathered in large quantities, and a work
department renovates and makes over gar-
ments to be given out to the poor in the
stake.
	The Liberty stake Society is presided over
by Mrs. Annie S. Musser, and it consists of
eight wards. Among other things under-
taken by this organization is helping the
poor in their temple work, those who have
not the time and means for genealogical re-
search and subsequent work for the dead,
being assisted by the Society. A certain day
once a month is given by the women for
temple work for the poor, and thus the bles-
sings and ordinances for the dead have been
and are being bestowed upon hundreds,
through the labors of these good women.
Like the Society in other parts of this city,
the poor they have always with them, and
they are found ever ready to extend a help-
ing hand and give comfort to those who
need. Their average annual disbursement
for charity is about $1,000, but their minis-
trations in distress cannot be counted in
dollars and cents. A unique work done in
this stake is in the direction of an employ-
ment bureau for girls. In each ward some
woman has an office desk where she takes
the names of girls desiring work and the
names of places where girls can find suitable
employment; the Society in this way retain-
ing a supervision and watchcare, to some
extent at least, over the working girls. This
admirable plan is still in embryo, but it is
certain to be the means of accomplishing
much good.
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon presides over
the Pioneer stake Relief Society. The peo-
ple residing in this stake are largely of the
laboring class, there being few of wealth and
many of the poor. The Society distributes
annually something like $1,300 in charity;
and when one reflects that this amount is col-
lected almost entirely by the teachers in their
regular visits from house to house, and gather-
ed in small sums from those who are them-


[Column 1]
selves none too able to give, it is a literal
instance of ‘‘the poor helping the poor.”
There are 11 wards in the stake, three of
them on the west side of the Jordan river.
These districts during a large part of the
year are very hard to visit, on account of
there being no sidewalks or railroads; but
the women who act as teachers flounder pa-
tiently through the snow and mud in calling
at the different homes on their mission of
comfort and help, and many instances might
be cited where the coming of these unselfish
and generons women has seemed to be in
very deed the visit of ministering angels.
Three times since the organization of the
stake have the wards joined to help families
whose homes had been destroyed by fire,
and in one case the Soiety in one week raised
about $500 towards building a home for a
widow with little children. The stake So-
ciety has a library of fine reference books
which are circulated among the members for
their assistance in the department of moth-
ers’ work and for the education of the women
of the stake along all benevolent and pro-
gressive lines.
	Mrs. Harriet B. Harker is president of the
Salt Lake stake Relief Society, having re-
cently been called to that position, to succeed
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general treasurer
of the board, who resigned the office to which
she was appointed at the organization of the
stake. The work in this stake in charity is
similar, of course, to that in the other parts
of the city, with perhaps this distinction
that more help to the really poor who are
not members of the Church is given here
than elsewhere. This is because the stake
includes districts in the thickly settled parts
where tenement houses and and cheap lodg-
ing places prevail. The teachers’ work in these
districts are very arduous, and their experi-
ences at times are well nigh heartrending,
for here is found the nearest approach to the
slum conditions, and the real poverty of the
big cities, and the relief workers find much
to do and sometimes great difficulty in the
doing. A great missionary work is being
done in this stake, a number of sisters hav-
ing been called to labor among the people
as missionaries, to visit the different homes
and talk of the gospel and its beauties, and
thus to spread the spirit of the work. The
mothers’ department is also most interest-
ing; outlines touching on almost every sub-
ject that would be helpful to the mother in
rearing her family having been prepared and
lectures being given and discussed in special
mothers’ meetings—all of which has led a
large number of young mothers into Relief
Society work. This stake also has a special
department for Book of Mormon study, and
once a month the Society meets for this pur-
pose. Salt Lake is one of the few stake or-
ganizations where meetings are held weekly;
but as the work grows, so grows the necessity
for more time to be devoted to it.
	The Ensign stake Relief Society is presided
over by Mrs. Margaret A. Romney. Here dwell
the wealthier population of Salt Lake City,
but within its boundaries are also included
some poor and thickly settled districts, in
which there is ample opportunity for charit-
able effort and for the disbursement of a
considerable sum from the Relief Society
fund. The organization in this stake has
splendid material for mothers’ department
work, and most interesting lectures are given
in the different wards for the help of the
young home-maker. The sick are visited,
the mourners comforted, and every duty re-
quired of these kind workers in helping to
build up the people spiritually is cheerfully

[Column 2]
and promptly performed. The stake meet-
ings are excellent in spirit and are always
marked by a fine attendance.
	Allusion has here been made to only half
a dozen out of the vast number of organiza-
tions which exist throughout the Church;
but enough has probably been said to show
that the stake president, wherever her
field of labor may be, has full opportunity
for the exercise of originality of thought and
energy of action in meeting the conditions
by which she is surrounded. Surely the du-
ties devolving also upon Relief Society work-
ers are anything but insignificant. The ne-
cessities of the poor, the necessities of the
sick and the afflicted, the necessities of the
erring,and of those that lack understanding,
and the endeavor to implant in their hearts the
testimony of the Spirit of God—to look after
these things is the duty of Relief Society
workers. As to the system of organized
charity which they pursue, nothing could be
more perfect. With a band of women visit-
ing regularly every home in their respective
districts for the express purpose of finding
out the different needs and ministering to
them, there is no chance for the existence of
actual and unrelieved want; and the true
Christian spirit of love and help for one’s
fellow man is the real spirit and watchword
of Relief Society work. It follows, therefore,
that there could be no grander or better
school for women than in the work which
the Society affords. It teaches unselfishness,
pity, mercy, kindness and love—it is an in-
spiration to the soul to progress and learn
all the good in life and then to impart that
good to others. Surely. “Charity never
faileth.”		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PARTY AND BANQUET
(in Honor of Sister Ellen D. Clark on her Sixty-Ninth
				Birthday.)
	On November 22nd, 1908, the Relief So-
ciety of the Second Ward of American Fork,
together with the local board members of
the other three wards, also stake officers,
Pres. Rebecca Standring, Counselors Annie
C. Hindley, and Harriet Jacobs, Secretary
Emma Featherstone, Asst. Sec. Emma J.
Robberts, Relief Society Missionaries Sina
Chipman, Mary Webb, and Rachel Hunter,
met in the 2nd ward chapel at 2 p. m.
	A conveyance was then sent for Sister
Clark, who supposed that a singing practice
was going to be held, but before she had
reached her accustomed seat, knew that the
beautiful decorations, and the distinguished
faces present meant something unusual, but
a few seconds had passed when she took in
the situation, and knew she was the victim
of a surprise party.
	A good program was rendered, many
beautiful sentiments and good wishes for
our dear sister were expressed. A delicious
lunch was served during which time toasts
and sentiments were given in honor of the
stake officers.
	Sister Clark was so overcome she could
hardly express her feelings.
	She has been a worker in the Relief So-
ciety ever since its first organization in
American Fork. For many years has been
local agent for the Woman’s Exponent, and
is an active worker in the Alpine stake at
the present time.
	A beautiful black silk dress pattern was
presented to Sister Clark as a token, of re-
membrance.
				ELIZA BUCKWALTER,
							Secretary.


Lines to Sister Ellen D. Clarke,
Written by Eliza Buckwalter, Sec. of Am. Fork
		2nd Ward Relief Society.

	In the dear old land of Scotland,
	In a town near the “Firth of Forth”
	A little baby girl was born,
	Who has proven of wondrous worth.

	She was watched o’er by fond parents,
	Who were anxious about her fame;
	It was finally decided 
	That Ellen D. should be her name.

	She glided along through childhood,
	Was both intelligent and bright;
	When the gospel truths were shown her,
	She could plainly see its light.

	Let us gather unto “Zion,”
	Could be heard on every hand
	To dwell among the “Saints of God” 
	She left her dear, native land.
		
	The journey no doubt was a long one,
	But at last reached American Fork;
	Where every one knew and loved her;
	And to all was “dear Sister Clark.”

	This life is not always sunshine,
	Our sister had sorrow to share;
	Her husband this life departed,
	She was left for her children to care.

	She struggled along most bravely,
	Determined her mission to fill,
	She never found time to falter,
	While climbing up life’s busy hill.

	In Sunday School, Relief Society,
	Choir, ‘‘Old Folks,” or whatever part,
	She labored on untiringly,
	With willing hand and loving heart.

	When that sad accident befell her.
	Not even a complaining word,
	But endured all most patiently 
	And said “’tis the will of the Lord.”

	In preparing Temple raiment,
	She seems to take special delight,
	That those who go to the House of God,
	Will have those sacred things all right.

	In filling the empty caskets,
	With bodies whose spirits have flown,
	The number has been recorded,
	And will speak when the bugle has blown.

	The many good deeds of our sister,
	We can never, never portray;
But we know the welcome words “well done,”
Will be said on the great judgment day.


OBITUARY AND RESOLUTIONS OF
				RESPECT.
	To the memory of our beloved Sister Mary
Tattersoll. She was the daughter of James and
Mary Topping, born December 2nd, 1850, in Pres-
ton, Lancashire, England; died August 28th, 1908,
from dropsy resulting from leakage of the heart,
brought on from the great shock of her son Ar-
thur’s death which was the result of an injury
received at the Utah Sugar Factory.
	Her husband from exposure while attending to
the son took pneumonia, and died in less than
two weeks afterward.
	Sister Tattersoll’s father was one of the first to
embrace the gospel in England, during the time
when Pres. Heber C Kimball labored there, and
from that time until coming to Utah in 1879. His
home was ever open to the Elders.
	Sister Tattersoll was the mother of five chil-
dren, three of whom survive her, two sons and
one daughter.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, a member
of the Relief Society, and was ever liberal in don-
ating to the poor.
	Reseolved by the sisters of the 2nd Ward Relief
Society of American Fork, that we sincerely regret
her departure and keenly feel our loss.
	Resolved that we extend to her orphan children
our deepest sympathy, and pray that God will
watch over them and will indeed be a father to
the fatherless.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be kept
on record, also a copy sent to the local paper, one 
also to the Woman’s Exponent for publication.
					Sarah S. Chipman, Pres.
					Eliza Buckwalter, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOOD NIGHT.
Nay, not unkind, but merciful is death, 
He folds our tired hands, stills e’en our breath
He lays us fondly on our mother’s breast
Who sings sweet lullabyes of heavenly rest.
		Good night, good night.

No clamoring din to mar our well earned sleep;
No fitfnl dreams from which to start and weep
With joy in tasks accomplished close our eyes
And gently drift away to paradise—
		Good night, good night.

How beautiful to watch the sunset fade,
Drink in the glory of the purpling shade,
Without regret behold the darkness grow—
The light is almost gone,—the fire burns low—
		Good night, good night.
						RUTH M. FOX.
	Inscribed to the late Maria Wilcox.

			RESOLUTIONS.
MARIA WEALTHY RICHARDS WILCOX.

	Whereas our Father in heaven has seen fit to
call from us our beloved President, Sister Maria
W. Wilcox, whom we shall greatly miss for her
many sterling qualities, and one who was true to
every trust,
	Whereas the poor have lost a benevolent sister,
the distressed a comforter, having always carried
with her a sweet spirit, which was felt by those
she met, be it
	Resolved, that we, the members of the Relief
Society condone with the family in the loss of a
noble wife a loving mother, and considerate sister,
be it
	Resolved that these resolutions be filed in
the minutes of the Fourteenth Ward Relief Soci-
ety, Salt Lake City, and a copy be sent to the
family.
					Rida C. Taylor,
					Nellie D Woodruff,
Committee.			Louisa F. Brown,
					Sarah C. Folsom,


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
MARIA WEALTHY RICHARDS WILCOX.

“No sighs are heard in the shadowy place
	No voices of them that weep
They have fought the fight and finished the race,
	God giveth them rest in sleep.

“Are they dreaming, the sleepers pale and still.
	For their faces are rapt and calm,
As though they were treading the Holy Hill,
	And hearkening the angel’s psalm,”

	In recording the departure of those we
have been intimately associated with to a
higher life beyond, we often fail not only in
satisfying their immediate relatives and
friends, but in expressing our own senti-
ments. It has fallen to my lot, many times
to write notices of my friends, and I have
sometimes thought will there be any left of
those I knew in early womanhood? I have
felt this very deeply in the demise of Sister
Wilcox. For many years we have met each
other in “sweet converse,” as it were daily,
and as I sit here writing, I almost feel I
might look up and see her coming in the
door, but alas, no. We shall not meet
again on this side the veil, that hides those
who have left us for that “Betterland from
our view.
	Sister Wilcox was one of those who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith and had sat under
his teaching and could bear testimony of
him and of his divine mission. Of those
who knew the prophet and could testify of 
his wonderful personality and powerful

[Column 2]
ministrations among the Saints there are
but few remaining.
	Sister Maria Wealthy Richards was
born, so to speak, among the Berkshire hills
in the old Bay State; many of the great men
and women of the world boast of coming
from that celebrated locality, and a number
of illustrious Latter day Saints, the Richards
and Spencer families and others. Miss
Richards was born in Richmond, Berkshire
Co., Massachusetts, June 17, 1827, her par-
ents were Phinehas Howe, cousin of Brig-
ham Young, and Wealthy Dewey Richards.
They were of the early Puritans, and proud
of that descent. Sister Wilcox was Puri-
tanical in manner, in habits possessing all
the very best qualities of that noble origin.
Her father’s family, including herself, be-
came converts to the “Mormon” faith and
moved to Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1843; the
daughter, Maria, had received a good com-
mon school education and taught school
herself when fifteen years of age.
	On Dec. 10, 1855, Miss Richards was
married to Walter Eli Wilcox, who was
born in Dorchester, Mass., adjoining Boston.
After the marriage Mr. and Mrs. Wilcox
went to St. Louis. Mo., to reside and from
that city emigrated to Salt Lake City, with
a large company of Saints in ox teams, ar-
riving in the valley in September, 1852.
	Sister Wilcox endured the hardships of
that three months’ journey across the plains
with that same heroic fortitude that she
has manifested throughout her whole life.
	Sister Wilcox has always been a busy
woman, possessing the best characteristics
of a wife and mother and a model home-
maker; she was orderly, industrious, econ-
omicsl and thrifty, and neatness personified
in herself and in her home and surround-
ings; fond of flowers, and especially roses
which she always raised in abundance. We
can never forget her gifts of roses, from her
own garden.
	A sweet and dainty poem written by Ruth
M. Fox on her eightieth birthday, calling
her “A June Rose,” is very applicable to
her life and the poem closes with these ex-
quisite lines:

		“To a rose fully blown
		We do honor today,
		Of exquisite neatness,
Rounded and full-a corolla of sweetness;
Old rose, we will call it for sake of completenss,
A life of well-doing drives old age away.

		The twilight is passing
		Dear friends gone before
		Are calling, soft calling,
The petals are falling, falling fast falling
But the way is not long, nor dark, nor appalling
There roses bloom ever to wither no more.”

	The complete poem was published in the
June number of this paper 1907.
	Sister Wilcox was an active member of
the Relief Society from its inception here,
and was elected Corresponding Secretary of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake in De-
cember 1877, when the stake was organized,
and continued to fill that office and to visit
in the various wards of the stake until the
division of the stake in 1903, although in
1899 she was chosen President of the Relief
Society in the Fourteenth ward in this city
which position she held at the time of her
death. She has been one of the workers of
the Salt Lake Temple ever since it was
opened for ordinances in May 1893, and has
seldom been absent. She has also officiated
for very many of her kindred, who had pas-
sed away without the knowledge of the Gos-
pel, and she will without doubt be welcomed
with joy and gladness by them, when she

[Column 3]
reaches the “other side.” Thousands will
miss her here, and the sisters who officiate
in the Temple most of all perhaps except
her immediate family.
	She died on Wednesday evening, January
13, 1909, full of faith and good works and
with a full assurance of an abundant en-
trance into the celestial kingdom, for she had
been faithful and true to all her covenants,
and had accepted every principle pertaining
to exaltation, as revealed through the Prophet
of the Lord; and had received all the ordin-
ances and blessings pertaining to an exalta-
tion hereafter.
	Sister Wilcox’s funeral was held in the
Assembly Hall in the ward where she resided,
and the house was crowded with her rela-
tives and friends. Bishop Elias Woodruff
presided and Prof. C. J. Thomas and the
Temple choir furnished sacred music, the
Hymns were “Unveil thy bosom, faithful
tomb” and “Farewell all earthly honors,”
and the following solos were beautifully ren-
dered: “Sometime we will understand,” by
Miss Edith Grant; “Face to Face,” by Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward; and “O Love Di-
vine,” by Mrs. George Q Morris. The opening
prayer was by Elder Rodney C. Badger and
the speakers were Bishop George Romney,
President John R. Winder, President Anthon
H. Lund, President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Emmeline B. Wells who repre-
sented the General Relief Society. The clos-
ing prayer was offered by Elder Adolph
Madsen.
	The beautiful white casket was literally
covered with the most delicate flowers in
every conceivable design. The Relief So-
ciety of the Fourteenth Ward took charge of
the flowers in the “Big Utah.” The pall
bearers were the four sons and two eldest
grandsons of Sister Wilcox. Her sons are
George A., Charles F., Franklin A., and Ed-
ward E. Wilcox; grandsons Walter Arnold,
and Stevenson Wilcox. A large cortege fol-
lowed the remains to the grave where Elder
Horace Cummings dedicated the grave.
	Sister Wilcox was the mother of nine chil-
dren, one son died a few years ago and four
sons and four daughters survive her and a
large number of grandchildren and great-
grandchildren.
	Sister Wilcox was only severely ill three
days, having attended the tabernacle ser-
vices as usual on Sunday, January 10; she
was most exemplary in all her religious du-
ties.

“Better than earthly presence e’en the dearest,
	Is the great blessing that our partings bring;
For in the loneliest moments God is nearest,
	And from our sorrows heavenly comforts spring,
			If God be with us.”

“Good-bye, good-bye, with latest breath we say
		it,
	A legacy of hope, and faith, and love;
Parting must come, we cannot long delay it
	But one in Him, we hope to meet above,
		If God be with us,”
								E. B. W.


The California suffragists have opened
legislative headquarters at Sacramento, and
the New York suffragists at Albany, and
there are other State suffrage headquarters
Des Moines and Chicago, besides the old
National Headquarters at Warren, O., where
a vast amopnt of business is done, and the
newly opened one in Washington, D. C., for
Congressional work. But Boston can boast
of the oldest suffrage headquarters in the
country, maintained in that city without a
break for nearly forty years.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
at second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	JANUARY, 1909.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW YEAR, 1909.
	The close of the year 1908 was not only
overflowing with general interest in affairs
of the utmost importance in these days of
the greatest achievements, of all kinds im-
aginable, but there was the excitement fol-
lowing the election of a new president of the
United States, which is always interesting;
but when it seemed the year was just mak-
ing its exit, nevermore to return, then there
came the astounding telegraphic news of
the greatest calamity known to the world
for over a century at least. The distressing
disaster of the terrible earthquake in Sicily
and Southern Italy, caused such widespread
consternation, as to awaken the sympathy
and the deepest emotions of the human
heart in tender compassion for the sufferers.
	It is said by those best acquainted with
the history of such world events and with
atmospheric and earth disturbances, that
the recent holocaust in Southern Italy, and
surrounding islands along the coast, now
devastated and destroyed, that there has not
been anything so dreadful and appalling
since 1783. Tidal waves are not so un-
common in some sea coast places, where
there are shoals of islands, but the wide-
spread area of destruction in this alarming
catastrophe, and the thousands of human
lives instantaneously, as it were, swept
away, hurled to destruction, and those not
killed outright, mangled and disabled,
homeless and disconsolate, dependent upon
the mercy and charity of the world, not
knowing what their fate is to be, is too
deplorable to be dwelt, upon and yet, one
whose heart is full of compassion, must
needs contemplate these circumstances
more or less, though far removed from us or
our country; millions of dollars worth of
property utterly destroyed, and those who
survive left penniless, these are solemn
facts; horrors indeed to the sensitive mind,
and although liberal contributions came
from many sources, there is much pain and
misery that cannot be mitigated or allevi-
ated, and though in this land far removed
from these terrible occurrences, yet the
woes of humanity touch tenderly every sen-
sitive living soul, and the prayers of tens of
thousands ascend to heaven in behalf of
those, who suffer from these dread calam-
tics.

	Nevertheless the new year has opened
propitiously, and here in our own famous
land of America, prosperity seems to smile

[Column 2]
upon the people, and except the ills to
which flesh is heir, everywhere, no danger
threatens the peace and tranquility of this
glorious commonwealth.
	There are some problems confronting the
people of this nation but they are only shad-
ows, as it were, compared with the grave
and serious conditions that hang over some
of the most enterprising foreign lands.
	As a people we believe there is safety in
keeping the commandments of God, as re-
vealed in this last dispensation, and rejoice
that the truths revealed from heaven in this
day and age, through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, are spreading throughout the world
of mankind. The gospel is being preached
in many lands, and the honest in heart are
being converted and coming to an under-
standing of its saving principles.
	Therefore as Latter-day Saints we have
great reason to rejoice and be glad, for Zion
will arise and shine, and put on her beautiful
garments, and the glory thereof will eventu-
ally fill the whole earth, as has been fore-
told by prophets and apostles of old, and
of the present dispensation.

	The Lord is at the helm, and will bring
to pass His righteous purposes in the earth,
and the Saints who are in the line of their
duty will be on the alert, watching the signs
of the times and discerning the significance
of momentous events as they transpire from
time to time. It is all a part of the great
drama being enacted in the world of which
we as individual are only an insignificant
part.
	Meantime each one has a chance if ever so
small in the great development of knowl-
edge of God and His purposes; and work to
do that may count for much or little, ac-
cording to the diligence and devotion of the
doers; and the light and intelligence brought
to bear upon the object to be attained.
	One cannot be at ease in Zion, is an old
saying, for the work is pressing, and it re-
quires the utmost zeal and capacity of the
individual effort and endeavor to accom-
plish the designs of the Almighty in over-
coming evil, and establishing truth and
righteousness in the earth.
	In this greatest dispensation, when all
former dispensations are to be merged into
one, women have an important part, and
one that will require greatness of soul and
magnanimity of purpose beyond that to
which they have as yet attained; although
many grand and noble ones have laid the
foundation for those who are now engaged in
the far-reaching undertakings that are being
developed, but those who are coming for-
ward will yet see how vast the increase will
be; surely “the” harvest is great and the
reapers are few.
	The work for the living and the dead, in
the temples already built is marvelous, but
when more temples are built there will be
need of such an army of women workers as
well as men that one looking forward can
scarce conceive of its magnitude.
	Are our young women preparing them-
selves for this mighty undertaking? Are
they appreciating the fact that they are
heirs to all these privileges and blessings?
This is an endless theme to dwell upon, and
reaches far into the past and none living
can satisfactorily grasp its future, indeed it
is not given to man to know all that there is
in store, but the Lord reveals to His proph-
ets here a little and there a little.

[Column 3]
	In connection with the foregoing,we espec-
ially, recommend the work recently taken
hold of in a way to open up more and greater
interest in the work for the dead in estab-
lishing a Genealogical Society in the Church.
We believe this will lead up to greater ad-
vancement in Temple work and awaken a
stronger conviction of its necessity in the
minds of the youth of Zion, who have not
all been awakened to its vast and far-
reaching importance.


IDEAL.
A DREAM.
	My dear fellow-workers, I fear that a
great many of us do not realize the import-
ance that is attached to Relief Society work.
	The vague idea that it is only an organ-
zation for the older sisters is a profound
mistake, its doors stand open for the girls
of sixteen as well as the sisters of more ma-
ture experience.
	When our beloved prophet opened the
door of benefit for woman, he did not sim-
ply mean the few who were fortunate
enough to be under the sound of his voice
at that time.
	But the knowledge of woman organized was
a legacy given to the whole world of woman-
kind, his words that were delivered by in-
spiration have had their effect not only
smongst us as Latter-day Saints, but their
significance and influence have threaded
their way through the civilized nations of
the earth, politically and religiously. Var-
ous kinds of benevolent societies and clubs
have since that memorable day sprung into
existence and the originators of them know
not why or what instinct has led them on
to action.
	But we who have the spirit of truth burn-
ing in our bosoms know that all these subor-
dinate systems are but flickering footlights
under the blaze of a great institution whose
wheels are moved by the power of revela-
tion.
	Our society here in Randolph is in a
healthy condition, the president is energetic
and alive to her duties, she and her counsel-
ors are as one, love and harmony exists be-
tween every officer and teacher.
	I consider we are blessed above all the
other branches in our stake, as we are in
touch with the stake presidency, their homes
being right here.
	We are occasionally favored with a visit
from our stake president, Sarah Tyson, and
her diligent staff of officers, who are ever
willing to impart unto us words of counsel
and encouragement.
	That we will be judged and rewarded for
what we have done should remain no longer a
a doubt with Relief Society workers. I was
skeptical for a long time in regard to our be-
ing judged from our Relief Society records, but
doubt fled with the wings of night after I
had been convinced through a dream.
	All at once I seemed to be in the com-
pany of a very intelligent and dignified per-
sonage, who walked some distance with
me until we reached an elevated portion of
ground. While standing there viewing the
surrounding country, my companion pointed
to the west. I turned and looked in the
direction he pointed, there before me were
two rows of magnificent trees whose
branches towered to the sky, their beautiful
foliage was splendor itself. A pathway sep-
arated these trees, and the glorious rays of
the sun shone on it, blending harmoniously
with the rich green tone displayed. While


I was admiring the beauties of nature and
enjoying the calm serenity of the atmos-
phere, the venerable and much beloved
Bathsheba W. Smith came walking leisure-
ly up the snow white path. I can vividly
recall her to mind now, as I beheld her in
my dream, with that broad, sweet smile on
her queenly face, as she came nearer and
nearer to the end of the path. Her dress
was perfectly plain, and in her right arm
she clasped firmly three large books, simi-
lar to our Church records; when she reached
the end of the path she turned to the right,
walked a few steps, and reaching a large
brick building she knocked at the door,
which was instantly opened. She walked in,
carrying the records with her. Turning to
the guide I asked if that was her home, he
answered, “Yes.”
	As this dream has impressed me very much
felt a desire to make it known through your
valuable little paper. It comes like a
stream of sunshine every month and its con-
tents are eagerly read by us.
	Dear sisters, may humility be our watch-
word, and obedience to the living oracles of
God here upon the earth, is the desire of your
sister in the Gospel.
					LOUISA GRAY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Emery Stake Relief Society con-
ference convened at Huntington on
Friday, October 30, 1908. Two sessions were
held, beginning at ten a. m. and two p. m.,
respectively. Although there were no visit-
ors from the general board, the conference
was a decided success. Nine local branches
were represented. The welcome address
was given by Mary A. Sorenson, and Coun-
selors Caroline M. Guymon and Mary J.
King, who spoke on Relief Society work in
general, and encouraged the sisters to con-
tinue the good work.
	Favorable reports were given of the fol
lowiug: Huntington, Castledale, Orange-
ville, Emery, Ferron, Lawrence, Cleveland,
Desert Lake and Price.
	Sister Alice Whimpey read a chapter from
the life of Joseph Smith. 
	Sisters Hattie Reid and Amanda Tuttle
rendered a duet entitled, “When the Mists
Have Cleared Aw’ay.”
	A report of the Sunnyside Relief Society
was read by President Mary A. Sorenson.
	Sister Kate Fulmer gave a lecture on
Woman’s Influence in the Home Town,
County and State.”
	A song was rendered by Sister Rachel
Thomas.
	Sister Mary T. Fowler gave a talk on
“Prohibition,” taking for her subject “Does
it pay to have liquors sold, and thus get
the revenue?”
	Sister Rosella Riley spoke on “Prohibi-
tion” and the means of obtaining the same.
	Elder John Wakefield spoke encourag-
ingly to the sisters and asked the Lord to
bless them in their efforts to do good.
	Sisters Cecelia Woodward, Hannah Leon-
ard and Elizabeth Howard sang “When I
I Reap What I Have Sown.” President
Mary A. Sorenson said she had enjoyed
the conference, and spoke on Mother’s
Plan Work, hospital funds, socials for Relief
Society teachers, etc., and thanked all for
their help. A song was rendered by Sister
Hannah Leonard. Sister Esther Grange
reported the prohibition movement and ex-
plained the same. Bishop Antone Neilson

[Column 2]
expressed himself in favor of prohibition
and thought the women were engaged in a
good cause.
	After singing and benediction the confer-
ence adjourned for six months.
			ANNIE MARIA ALLEN,
					Secretary.

		LIBERTY STAKE. 
	Liberty Stake Relief Society conference
was held in the 9th ward meeting house,
December 10th, 1908, President Annie S.
Musser presiding. After the opening exer-
cises, President Musser feelingly greeted the
sisters and spoke words of welcome, also
felt grateful for the many blessings she en-
joyed.
	Reports were made by the presidents of
the 9th, 31st and 33rd wards, all were in
the line of their duty, and performing a
good work.
	President Annie Wells Cannon of the
Pioneer Stake Relief Society, and a member
of the General Board, gave, by request-
a sketch of the life of her mother,
Emmeline B. Wells, the General Sec-
retary of the Relief Society, which
was very interesting and much enjoyed.
	A duet was rendered by Sisters Bailey and
Kirkman. After benediction by Sister
Blanche Earl, adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock. After
the preliminary exercises, Sister Jennie
Lloyd gave a lecture on “The Training of
the Child in the Home,” which was very
instructive and helpful to mothers.
	Sister Strong rendered the solo entitled,
“Jesus Lover of my Soul.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth, of the
General Board, felt proud of being a mem-
ber of the Relief Society and gave some
timely instructions to the sisters.
	Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley gave in-
structions to presidents in regard to looking
after the poor and infirm. Elder C. W.
Symons, of the High Council, made a few
timely remarks, and encouraged the sisters
to continue in the good work, and urged the
mothers to watch and guard their boys and
girls.
	President Musser made a few closing
remarks, thanking all who had helped to
make the conference a success. After sing-
ing, and benediction, conference adjourned
for six months.
	A delicious lunch was served, between the
meetings to all present.
Lizzie Robbins, Secretary.

			NEBO STAKE.
	Conference convened at Goshen, Friday,
September 18, 1908, at 10 a. m.
	President Eliza J. Dixon presiding, First
Counselor Martha S. Kapple in charge.
Opening exercises as usual, Sister Price,
President of Goshen ward spoke a few
words of welcome and encouragement.
Sister Kapple reported the visit of the Stake
Presidency in Tintic district, and spoke of
the disadvantages under which they labor in
mining camps, also spoke of the great im-
portance of our children marrying in the
Temple.
	Sister Tietjen, president of Santaquin
ward reported her ward in good condition,
and the benefit they are receiving from the
parents’ class work. Their society have
built a new granary; have 1,000 bushels of
grain.
	Sister Foster reported Eureka ward in
good condition. Recitation, Louie Taylor,
entitled "Mother was Away.”

[Column 3]
	Sister Dixon spoke for some time on the
Word of Wisdom and read some of the 89th
section of the Doctrine and Covenants, said
we should use wisdom in all things, the
Word of Wisdom means many things. If
we will keep the laws of God our health will
be good.
	Sister Matilda Dixon read a paper on the
subject of tithing, of its origin, and gave
many references on the subject, and ex-
plained them very beautifully. After singing
and prayer, conference adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m., conference
reconvened, President Dixon presiding,
Mary F. Brown in charge. After singing
and prayer, etc., Sister Page spoke on the
subject of divine authority and explained it
very clearly, also spoke of some of the
things that were spoken of at our last Stake
conference.
	Song by Sister Oakelberry entitled, “The
Old Rag Carpet.”
	Sister Townsend, one of the Stake Board,
spoke on the subject of prayer and its im-
portance, also the answer to prayer.
	Recitation, Sister Powelson, “Trouble in
the Amen Choir.”
	Sister Roberts, of Goshen, was pleased to
have R. S. conference in Goshen again,
spoke of the Relief Society as being the
mother of the Church, also spoke of the
Woman’s Exponent, and the great benefit
and importance it is to the society.
	Bishop Oakelberry spoke of the faithful-
ness of our older sisters, also said we as
young people are seeking the riches and
pleasure of this life too much.
	Brother Finch spoke a few minutes on
the Word of Wisdom, also said we should
work for our spiritual salvation as well as
a temporal one.
	Brother Roberts, one of the High Council
spoke on Relief Society work for a short
time. Bishop Tanner spoke of the good
things that had been talked of today. 
	Sister Dixon thanked the people of Gosh-
en for the kindness that had been shown the
visiting brethren and sisters.
	Sister Mary F. Brown made a few closing
remarks. Conference adjourned for three
months, singing “On the mountain tops
appearing,” and benediction by Sister
Emma Jenkins.
	ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.

			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Relief Society annual conference held in
Preston, May 2, 1908. President Louisa B.
Benson presiding.
	There was present of the General Board
Sister Susan Grant and Annie Wells Can-
non, full Stake Board present.
	Singing, Prayer, Singing, Roll called, 19
wards represented.
	Minutes. Statistical and financial report
approved.
	President Benson welcomed all to our
conference, reported a new society viz. Win-
der, making the 20th in the stake.
	President Julia Jenson reported the 2nd
ward as building a new granary.
	Solo—Dora Geddes.
	Fairview, Weston and Franklin were re-
ported by their respective presidents.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon addressed the
conference on The Broadness of Relief So-
ciety Work, said every woman in Zion should 
be an example of purity. Spoke of the du-
ties of teachers, power of organized charity,
looking after spiritual welfare of sisters and
of the watchcare we should haye over our
girls, keeping them from large cities etc.


[Column 1]
	Singing—Solo, “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.”
	Preston 3rd ward and Mink Creek reported.
	Sister Susan Grant endorsed what had
been said and spoke on making good re-
cords, mothers reading good books and the
education of our children.
	President L. B. Benson spoke of responsi-
bilities of our teachers.
	Counselors Hannah Mickleson and Lucy
Parkinson each made a few remarks.
	Morning session closed with singing and
prayer.
	A banquet was given between the meet-
ings at which over 800 people were served.
	Afternoon Session. Stake President Geo.
C. Parkinson and other leading brethren
were present.
	After opening exercises President Louisa
B. Benson reported the stake. Two new or-
ganizations, Cherryville and Winder; all
branches in fair condition.
	Sister Susan Grant addressed the confer-
ence on “Qualification for Duties,” being
examples for all, cultivation of faith, and
teaching our children the gospel.
	Piano Solo—Eva Johnson.
	Sister Sylvia L. Jensen read an article
written in memory of Elizabeth Fox by De-
lilah E. Dudley.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon spoke encour-
aging words to Society workers, and spoke
on temperance; great women who had work-
ed for it—also woman’s franchise, advised
parents to teach their sons and daughters to
be true to themselves and their faith.
	Duet—Dora Geddes and Pearl Eames.
	Recitation, “Be merciful”—a member of
Weston Society.
	President Parkinson commented on the
success of the banquet. Spoke of the power
of the mother in molding character. Advised
the husbands and fathers to give their wives
their tenderest thoughts.
	A vote of thanks was given to the various
banquet committees.
	Singing by Academy Choir. Benediction
Jos. S. Geddes.
				LINDA N. BENSON,
						Cor. Sec.
		NORTH WEBER STAKE.
	November 12, 1908. The first quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of the North
Weber stake of Zion, convened at the Relief
Society stake house at Ogden.
	The morning session convened at 10:30
a. m, and the following visitors were present.
Sisters Harriet B. Harker and Rebecca
Nibley of the general board, President C. F.
Middleton of the Weber stake and stake
secretary Nellie Becraft of the Ogden stake,
also a full representation of the Relief So-
ciety stake officers of the North Weber stake.
	Stake President Georgina G. Marriott con-
ducted the conference.
	Singing, “Guide us, O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Prayer, President C. F. Middleton.
Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Stake President Georgina G. Marriott said,
the visiting sisters desired to hear a report
from each ward in the new stake. There are
eleven Relief Society organizations in the
North Weber stake, and all are reported as
doing good work. The attendance at meet-
ings is increasing, the young mothers are
joining, and the lessons, outlined by the
Relief Society stake officers are proving of
great benefit in the wards in bringing the
young married sisters to a realization of the
good, Relief Society work will do for them.
The president also explained the object of

[Column 2]
taking up the subjects of “Prayer” and “The
Sabbath Day.” These subjects were for the
month of November and others would be
outlined every month.
	President C. F. Middleton of the Weber
stake spoke on the subject, “What Relief
Society will do for young mothers.”. He
likened the old Weber stake to a hive of
bees, who had become so numerous, that it
had become necessary to divide them, in
order to get them to do more thorough
work, also spoke of the first organization of
the Relief Society.
	Stake secretary Nellie Becraft of the Ogden
stake felt at home in this conference and
spoke of the good Relief Society would do
for young mothers, and of the great help
and benefit they could be to the older sisters.
	Singing, “Our God, we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by stake counselor Lucy H.
Williams.
	Conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	After the morning session a delicious
luncheon was served, and all were invited
to stay and partake of the same. About
two hundred people sat down to the tables,
spread with an abundance of the bounties
of life.
	The afternoon session convened at 1:30
p. m. and there were present: Sisters Har-
riet B. Harker and Rebecca Nibley of the
general board, President James Wotherspoon
of the North Weber stake, and President
Harriet E. Woodmanse of the first ward
Relief Society of the Weber stake.
	Stake President Georgina G. Marriott pre-
siding.
	Singing, “O, Ye mountains high.” Prayer
by President James Wotherspoon of the
North Weber stake. Singing, “Prayer is the
souls sincere disire.”
	Sister Harriet B. Harker was pleased to
see a mixed congregation of old and young
sisters and spoke on the subjects of “Indivi-
dual Responsibility” and “Training of Chil-
dren,” she also urged the sisters, to try and
bring out all the good we can from any one
with whom we come in contact.
	Sister Mary A. Terry of the Marriott ward
sang “O, blessed was the day.”
	Sister Rebecca Nibley had been pleased
with the reports of the wards at the morning
session; spoke on “The power of prayer” and
of the necessity of living pure lives, and
having pure thoughts and of honoring the
priesthood.
	President James Wotherspoon regretted,
not being able to be at the morning session,
but had been pleased with the spirit of the
conference this afternoon. He spoke of the
good that had already been accomplished,
since the division of the old Weber stake, as
it had called into service a greater number of
the brethren and sisters; he spoke of the
noble work of a teacher, also of the necessity
and power of prayer and hoped the time
would come when the spirit of God would
be in every home in the stake, and that the
influence would be felt throughout the stake;
he also spoke of discouraging working on
the Sabbath, as that day should be a day of
rest, and had been set apart as such by the
Lord.
	President Georgina G. Marriott thanked
the sisters for coming out to conference, and
for the support they had given the stake
officers; she also thanked the sisters of the
“third ward” for the able way, in which
they had served the luncheon.
	Singing, “Doxology.” Benediction by
Sister Elizabeth Marriott.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
		MARY N. BUTLER, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMEN OF THE NINETEENTH CENTUTY.

	“New occasions teach new duties;
	Time makes ancient good uncouth
	They must upward still and onward,
	Who would keep abreast of truth.”
							—Lowell.
	The century just passed has been a won-
drous change in the status of woman, and
has seen many rights and privileges secured
to her, which in preceding years were con-
sidered possible by the few only. Women
today enjoy more privileges than ever be-
fore in the world’s history. If we read the
signs of the times aright, we understand to
some extent how this has been accomplished. 
Our Father’s purposes are brought about on
perfectly natural principles. 
	He had declared that light should shine
forth. The way had been prepared to some
extent by such reformers as: Martin Luther,
John Wesley, and many others who had
been moved upon by the Spirit of the Lord. 
The times were ripe for the light to begin to
shine. The Prophet of latter days was born
December 23, 1805. The Church was or-
ganized on the 6th day of April, 1830. The
Relief Society was organized on the 17th
day of March, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	I can find no record of an organization of wo-
men prior to this time. No woman dared
attempt to enter the professional world. 
Sixty-two years ago Harriet Martineau,
while visiting in America, declared that she
found here but seven occupations for wo-
men; teaching, needlework, taking boarders,
typesetting, employment in cotton mills,
domestic science, and book-binding. Yes,
women were allowed to bind books but not
to write them. 
	Think of George Elliot as she called her-
self, being obliged to take a man’s name in
order to have her writings published. Think
of poor Jane Austen hastily dropping her
sewing over the writing when a guest came
in; that she might not be called ungenteel. 
	It is only forty-nine years since Elizabeth
Blackwell, applying for permission to win a
medical diploma, was refused by a dozen
colleges, one of which added to its refusal
that interesting statement that it would be
unbecoming and immoral to see a woman
instructed in the nature and laws of her or-
ganization. Now, in the United States
alone, there are seven medical colleges for
women, besides the men’s colleges to which
she is admitted. Over seven thousand are
practicing physicians and surgeons, and the
reasons for and against such things are
being forgotten in the light of their actual
worth. 
	And what has brought about these changed
conditions? Latter-day Saints will answer,
“The light and knowledge that comes with
the Gospel dispensation.” Many intelligent
spirits were appointed to come to earth to
illumine the dark places, and to lift the bur-
den of tradition and false doctrine, which so
long has hung like a dense cloud over our
race. And how faithfully many have labored,
with untiring energy and wonderful intelli-
gence to accomplish good for mankind. I
shall not attempt in this article to write of
women of our Church. I shall leave that
for an abler pen than mine. 
	I shall, however, give a very brief sketch
of some ef the prominent women of our na-
tion. We notice that in every case their
birth occurred a short time after that of the
Prophet Joseph Smith’s.
	Prominent among writers and speakers
are:


[Column 1]
Frances E. Willard,	Born in	1832.
Louisa M. Alcott,		“	1854. 
Harriet Beecher Stowe,	“	1819.
Julia Ward Howe,		“	1819.
The latter was a writer of wonderful power.
She wrote “Marching On,” which became
the battle hymn of the republic. Her “Stir-
ring Appeal to Womanhood,” is pronounced
the ablest Peace Manifesto ever written, and
has been translated into French, German,
Italian and Swedish. Notwithstanding the
fact that Mrs. Howe had the intellectual
powers generally looked for in the male sex,
she lost none of her womanly nature. She
writes “The world looks to women and de-
pends upon them for its moral and spiritual
advancement.” Their release from wornout
traditions as to the sphere-of woman has
broadened their horizon and increased their
ambition to live higher lives of morality and
intellectuality.
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who was born
in 1815, called the first woman’s rights con-
vention in 1848. And in that first year
succeeded in getting the “Married Woman’s
Property Bill,’ passed.
	Clara Barton, who was born in 1825, was
the first woman to hold a regular clerical
position under the government.
	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps Ward, who was
born in 1844, was a descendant from the
Mayflower company. Here are a few of her
own words: “Not until the few last decades
has woman been permitted to rise to the
full measure of her capacity for usefulness.
Formerly her activity was confined to the
sphere of her own home, and public opin-
ion condemned, as unseemly, her ap-
pearance in public, or her active participa-
tion in enterprises outside of her do-
mestic circle. A change has been
wrought and within the last half century
there has been a multitude of women whose
acheivements for the uplifting of the race
have commanded the affectionate admira-
tion of mankind.”
	Last, but by no means least, on my list,
is the name of Susan B. Anthony, who was
born February 15, 1820. She came of good
and upright parents. Her father was a
Quaker and her mother a Baptist. Her
father had been reprimanded by the Quaker
authorities for marrying a Baptist and for
wearing a comfortable cloak. He was fin-
ally expelled for allowing a room in his
house to be used for the instruction of his
children. Though a wealthy cotton manu-
facturer, he desired that his children should
be trained for professions. His daughters
were prepared in the best private schools
for teaching, which was the only vocation
open to women. At the age of eighteen
Susan became a private teacher in a Quaker
family, at one dollar a week and board.
When the financial crash of 1837 came, it
carried with it Mr. Anthony’s wealth, and
his wisdom in fitting his children for an
emergency was clearly proved. They were
all teaching and were of great assistance to
him in his distress. Susan was successful
to a marked degree, and devoted fifteen
years to the work. She was an active
member of the New York teacher’s associa-
tion, and made many effectual appeals for
higher salaries in the profession, and for
equal rights and equal compensation for
women, in all its honors, labors and
responsibilities. Lady teachers are in-
indebted to Miss Anthony for much
of the improved conditions of later
years. There can be no doubt but that Miss
Anthony was born for the work of a reform-
er and a philanthropist. She may have in-

[Column 2]
herited much of a lofty nature and patriotic
tendency, yet heridity is not all. There
are men and women born into the world at
certain periods of time for a distinctive
purpose, with a mission to fulfill for their
fellowmen. Their pathway is not smooth
for them. They are pioneers through new
fields of advancement, the pathfinders to
growth and culture, possessing the attributes
of faithful endurance and steadfastness.
	Miss Anthony early became interested in
temperance. In 1852, she organized a
woman’s temperance league, the first in the
country. Mrs. Stanton was its president
and Miss Anthony was secretary. In the
same year she was sent by the Daughters of
Temperance at Albany, to a state mass
meeting of the Sons of Temperance. Dur-
ing a discussion among the men she arose
to speak, but was not allowed to do it. The
women present were horrified and indig-
nant, and called her “the bold thing.” The
president of the meeting, with all the digni-
ty he could command informed her that
women were not expected to speak in meet-
ings, but only to be spectators. He meant
to settle the question forever, but the re-
buke acted like a firebrand to one of
Susan’s temperament. She marched out of
the hall, half a dozen others following, to
the residence of Lydia Mott, a cousin of
Lucretia Mott, where they held an indigna-
ation meeting. It was during these years
ot active work that Miss Anthony deter-
mined to work for greater freedom for
women, and decided that in order to suc-
ceed they must have the privilege of the
franchise. She allied herself with the suf-
frage movement, leaving other reforms
largely to her co-workers.
	It would be difficult for our young people
of today to realize the conditious of society
and the primitive educational advantages
at the time of Miss Anthony’s girlhood.
The changes wrought since then are mar-
velous and much credit is due this brave
woman, who had the courage to face the sit-
uation and stand boldly for the defense of
education for girls and equal privileges for
both sexes. Almost alone and unaided at
times she heralded truths with which her
understanding was quickened, even though
they were unacceptable. She, years ago,
plowed the rough way, and sowed the seed
that has taken deep root, and has sprung
up here and there, eventually, to bear
good fruit. At a state teachers’ convention
in Rochester, in 1853, Miss Anthony
claimed the privilege of speaking. There
were many women teachers present, but
none of them had a word to offer. The
question under discussion was why is the
profession of teaching not so much re-
spected as that of lawyers, doctors, and
ministers. A lively debate followed. Miss
Anthony’s request to be heard was at last
granted She said: “Mr. President and
Gentlemen: Do you not see that so long
as society says woman has not the brains
to be a lawyer, a preacher or a doctor
but has sufficient brains to be a teacher,
that every man of you who condescends
to teach school actually acknowledges that
he has no more brains than a woman?”
	There was no great reform advanced for
the uplifting of humanity in which she was
not actively interested. To the very last
she strongly advocated co-education. She
prepared and read a paper in Troy, New
York, in 1856, that called forth from the
ablest members of the convention their
views on the question. Mr. Hazaltine said:
“While I admit the power and talent of

[Column 3]
your retort, I would rather see a daughter of
mine buried beneath the sod than to stand
before a promiscuous audience and utter
such sentiments.” Superintendent Randall
replied. “And I should be proud if I had a
daughter able to do it.” In the winter of
1861 she planned a series of meetings to
begin at Buffalo, New York. Whenever
Miss Anthony and her little band appeared,
they were hissed, mobbed, and their voices
drowned with cries and groans. Ruffians
swore, turned off the gas, took possession
of the platform, and offered every kind of
indignity but she went on with her plans.
To relate how she went from door to door
to secure signatures to petition for the ballot
and equal rights for women, would be too
long a story. At all times she has been a
conspicuous figure, and in later years, she
has received great honors in America and
foreign lands. Above all else she has won
the true love of the people wherever she
was known. In 1871 Miss Anthony, in
company with Mrs. Stanton, crossed the
continent to California, and in passing, vis-
ited Salt Lake City. They lectured in the
old tabernacle in that place.
	When years later on, our delegates from
the National Relief Society and Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Association
went to the National Council of Women
held in Washington, Miss Anthony received
them in a manner which won the love and
admiration of them all. In speaking of,
her life she herself says that her work has
been like subsoil plowing to prepare the
ground for cultivation by women who are
reaping the benefits of fuller opportunities
and higher education. She died at the ad-
vanced age of 86 years (March 17, 1906).
The world is richer and better because of
the beautiful lives and examples of those
prominent characters that we have been dis-
cussing. And while we are blessed in the
enjoyment of twentieth century privileges,
let us not forget that we owe to such char-
acters as I have mentiond, our gratitude
and homage for what they have done.
			SAREPTA E. COWLES.
Ogden First Ward, March 17, 1908.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


KEEP THE SABBATH DAY HOLY.
(Continuation from No. 3, page 24.)
	Then our cattle, have we any right to
make our beasts of burden, minister to our
pleasure, by violating the laws of God upon
his holy day? The Savior told the Pharisees
in his day, that “the Sabbath was made for
man and not man for the Sabbath,” showing
that in cases of extreme necessity we may do
things which at other times would be unlaw-
ful, but in riding out in our carriages upon
the Sabbath day we desecrate the day and
are responsible also for our cattle, who can-
not help themselves.
	I have known people in other churches,
who have been strict observers of the Sab-
bath day, and who have remarked upon our
careless observance of it, and I have been
obliged to say, that no true Latter-day Saint
was thus careless.
	Now I come to what in my opinion is the
underlying cause of the lack of a proper ob-
servance of the Sabbath day, as well as the
cause of many other serious evils, which are
abroad in our midst, and which has been the
cause of the ruin of many of our sons and
fair daughters, viz. too much liberty.
	It is remarked by many people, and espe-
cially those from the old countries that the
freedom from restraint of our children is
appalling!


This no doubt in most instances, is the
result of mistaken kindness on the part of
parents or guardians and on the part of those
who would like to govern their children in
accordance with the requirements of the
gospel, the condition is forced upon them,
by their too careless neighbors, who by their
conduct not only utterly ruin their own off-
spring, but by their contact, precept and ex-
ample and that of their children, bring ruin
upon the sons and daughters of their un-
fortunate friends and neighbors, and it seems
to me that the only remedy is the conversion
of the parents, to the knowledge, of their
strict accountability to which they will be
held in a final judgment day by God our
eternal Father, or as it were, by “laying the
ax on the root of the tree,” and in those who
do realize their position as “moulders of the
minds of men,” insisting in unmistabable
terms, upon strict obedience to parental
authority mildly but firmly administered,
and that parents themselves should look
upon it as a sacred duty to meet together
and partake of the emblems of the broken
body, and spilled blood, of our slain Re-
deemer, our elder brother, who freely gave
his life that we might live, as our Father has
commanded on that holy day. That we may
manifest our faith in his promises, wherein
He promises, that the “fullness of the earth
shall be ours.” For if we keep not the law,
how can we claim the blessing? I feel that
we as members of the Relief Society which
was established by our beloved prophet so
many years ago, for the purpose, as he said,
of not only caring for the poor and the needy,
“but for the saving of souls,” should be not
only exemplars, but reminders, and helpers
to those who are weak, young mothers for
instance, who perhaps stay at home so long
with their young families that it becomes a
habit, and under some circumstances a po-
sitive necessity, with cross babies, and no
mother, sister, or friend to leave them with
if we love our neighbor as ourselves, we will
some times take the place of the overburden-
ed mother, in the care of her children for an
afternoon, or evening and let her go to the
house of prayer, where she may become re-
freshed and her faith strengthened and re-
newed. We who are old in the gospel, sure-
ly need not be afraid if we should miss a
meeting once in awhile, to give an opportun-
ity to another to enjoy the privilege which
we enjoy so constantly that we would lose
the faith, because we should be, “not hear-
ers of the word alone, but doers of it too,”
and should we not have our reward for so
doing, in seeing the renewed interest with
which the tired mother would take up her
labors in her household, and the renewed
determination to live nearer to the Lord?
and as “sacrifice brings forth the blessings
of heaven” so will we receive of the blessings
of the holy spirit, as a reward, for a duty
performed. For do we not desire the salva-
tion of all of our Father’s children? and if
we are not all called to go to the nations of
the earth to preach the gospel, let us not
neglect any opportunity to spread the same
at home, both, by precept and example,
that we may indeed be the children of God,
and receive of the blessings which he has
promised to those who would go to the house
of prayer.
			CAROLINE C. R. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Ethel Arnold and Mrs. Turner, two
sisters of Mrs. Humphry Ward, are as strong-
ly in favor of woman suffrage as she is op-
posed to it.


[Column 1]
			LAVENDER.
		BY ETHEL WEBLING.
	As I walk along a crowded street with the
sun reflected and thrown up from the pave-
ment the dust glittering and dancing in the
light; an added warmth and fragrance steals
around me like a cloud of white mist and
changes again into pale purple breaking into
softest green. Then spikes of summer bloom
rise up and the murmurous sound of bees
and the heat and fragrance of incense fills
the air.
	I pass through the door of an old house
and into a room where on a big chest rests
a black and gold lacquered tray filled with
lavender drying in the sunlight. I see oak
chairs of ample size, dark with age and pol-
ished with use and I notice that the shutters
of the long casement window have in each a
a little hole, cut like a heart, to let the light
through.
	The house dates from the XVIth century,
but the solid oak beams and some of the
stone work had been used in a building two
or three hundred years before. The walls,
upheld by the wood, have a strange music
in them, they vibrate to the voice and foot-
steps on the floor. There is a throbbing
silence in that house, it swells into volumes
of sound of all the immemorial years. The
beams still hold the music of the living oaks
and all the wild birds that nested in the
deep shade of their branches. After the
song of birds and other sounds of nature
there is the whisper and record of all the
human lives that have been discussed in the
great ingle nook. For years the house was
an inn, and how many men as they sat
around the hearth on the big oak settle,
sheltered from the draught and cold were
cheered by the imprisoned sunlight set free
in the flame and glowing embers of the
wood fire.
	The shelf running round the room near
the ceiling, with old lustre ware and pewter
standing on it, like the beams knows no
touch of plane, they were leveled by the ax
alone and the hand that wielded it swung
into the rhythm of nature. The sturdy
knot that marked a new branch spreading
out to the light, the surprise and pleasure of
the uneven line, is still the record of the
great tree’s growth, the builder builded bet-
ter than he knew, receptive to the propor-
tion, the harmony and contrast of the living
tree by whose strength the house still lives
and shelters life.
	The back of the house is like a dream of
summer. There is the red roof with its great
slant and rich color, only broken by the
dormer window and quaint chimnies, the
green painted barrels for rain water, and the
deep well that is known for miles around.
The court yard is half paved with red brick,
half with old flag stones and separated from
the garden by a border of delphiniums,
sweet peas, carnations and pansies. The
heart of the garden is a great pear tree that
in the springtime, with its wealth of white
blossoms, reminds one of snow-capped
mountains.
	All the paths radiate from the pear tree,
one leading to a magic circle where herbs

[Column 2]
grow—sweet thyme, marjoram, rosemary,
rue, callamint, bitter-sweet, and many more
whose virtues were well known in past days
when they were gathered in their proper
mystic hour; another to a gate that opens
on to fairie land—a deep pond bordered by
tall flowering reeds, ever swaying in the wind
where the busy Tits work and play the
whole day long.
	All the paths are laid with flint stones
that in their strange, uneven shapes seem
like the characters of an old rune, and the
strong self-sown seeds spring up between
the stones, for him who reads the rune
aright they burst into a wilderness of flow-
ers.
	A few weeks ago, the rose and the honey-
laden scent of the broad bean blossom filled
the air—in a little while it will be the ripe
fruits of autumn—plums, peaches and
apples—but today the lavender is being cut
and the winds are laden with its perfect
sweetness, the burning incense rises as I
stand in the loveliest garden in Kent—no, it
is a London street, but I see the spikes of
purple flower and hear a girl’s voice cry—
	“Lavender! Penny a bunch! Sweet
lavender!”


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


NOTES AND NEWS.
	“Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, the President
of the International Woman’s Suffrage As-
sociation will sail for Europe on Feb. 13.
	The woman suffrage bill has been defeat-
ed in the Vermont Senate, but by so narrow
a margin that a change of three votes would
have carried it. In the Vermont Constitu-
tional Convention held in 1870, woman suf-
frage received only one vote.”
	Governor John C. Cutler of Utah writes to
the Boston Woman’s Journal:
	“Woman suffrage has been most success-
ful as a practical expedient in Utah. In
fact, it is no longer an expedient, but an in-
tegral part of our civil life. Politics has
been benefited by the refining influence of
women; and, instead of being unsexed or de-
based, the women have been broadened and
bettered intellectually and socially through
the study and practice of civic affairs entail-
ed by the franchise. 
	“Politically, the influence of woman suf-
frage has been on the side of peace at the
polls and the selection of better officials, re-
sulting in a higher honesty of administra-
tion. Socially, it has resulted in a more
chivalrous regard for women, and an un-
questioned acknowledgment of their equal-
ity with men, and consequently their right
of participation in affairs of State. With the
experience Utah has had, we should not
think for a moment of returning to the male
suffrage system. 
	“As to the probability of the expansion of
woman suffrage into other States, I can
merely say that every State ought to adopt
it. Doubtless all of them will in time, but
progress in this direction will necessarily be
gradual, because it involves the overcoming
of great and deep seated prejudice.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

