Vol. 37.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1908.					No. 2.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions..................Emmeline B. Wells	9
Blessing Penned Long Ago............................	11
An Old Letter.............................Emma Smith	11
A Beautiful Testimony......Johanna Eggertsen	14
Delegate from Utah at the Woman’s Congress
	Dr. Roumania B. Penrose.......................	14
Relief Society Reunion...................................	15
Relief Society Reports: Bear Lake—Rigby		15
Orbituary.........................................................	16
I. W. S. A........................................................	16
Editorial:—Relief Society Nurse Class..........	12
	In Memoriam of Bishop William B.
	Preston ...................................................	12
	Editorial Notes........................................	12
Poetry:—Old Mothers................The Century	9
	Love’s Throne.................Lydia D. Alder	11
	Julia Ward Howe.........Woman’s Journal	11


OLD MOTHERS. 
I love old mothers—mothers with white hair,
And kindly eyes, and lips grown softly sweet
With murmured blessings over sleeping babes. 
There is a something in their quiet grace
That speaks the calm of Sabbath afternoons;
A knowledge in their deep, unfaltering eyes
That far outstretches all philosophy. 
Time with caressing touch about them weaves
The silver-threaded fairy shawl of age. 
While all the echoes of forgotten songs
Seem joined to lend a sweetness to their
	speech. 
Old mothers—as they pass with slow-timed step,
Their trembling hands cling gently to youth’s
	strength;
Sweet mothers, as they pass one sees again
Old garden walks, old roses and old lanes. 
							The Century.


[Column 1]
	L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
	PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS.
	BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	In continuing the personal impressions of
women of renown in this dispensation of an
early date in Kirtland, Ohio, one cannot
choose those more deserving of a conspicu-
ous place on the roll of honor than the
“Fielding Sisters,” Mary and Mercy some-
times alluded to as the “Mary and Martha”
of this dispensation.
	Mary Smith and Mercy Thompson have
been spoken of in history as apostolic wom-
en, fore-ordained so to speak, to become fam-
ous in the annals of the Church with which
they were identified when young girls.
	Very few among the young women of to-
day, who reverence President Joseph F.
Smith, know of his mother’s origin and re-
markable life. It is surprising considering
how much good material for life incidents
there is in her career, that more has not been
written concerning her; especially in this day
when one hears so much of the mothers of
great men of the world, past and present.
	Sister Mary Fielding Smith had passed
through many trying ordeals, in fact had
been tried as gold in the furnace of fire seven
times purified, before I had ever met her,

[Column 2]
and one could almost see sorrow stamped
upon her countenance. Although outwardly
she was cheerful and always strenuously oc-
cupied with absorbing work.
	Strength of character was written in every
lineament of her face, and she had a com-
manding figure; a sort of martial bearing,
the carriage of a woman who could lead an
army to battle.
	Of all the sisters whose severe trials and
hardships have been almost beyond human
endurance, it seems to me Sister Mary
Smith’s have been greatest. And yet her
faith never wavered, her courage never fal-
tered. The Spartan mothers so lauded in
history could not have been more heroic
than this mother in Israel, whose name
might with all propriety be emblazoned
in letters of gold on the Smith scroll of
fame.
	Under all circumstances in which she was
placed however trying, she was equal to the
occasion and triumphed; she scarcely needed
counsel for she was ever instructed from the
One above, and yet she was obedient to
proper authority.
	Not only was she of a religious nature by
inheritance; but also by early home training,
and discipline. It is well known that in
that day young girls did not have the educa-
tional advantages that are now accorded
them, but the Fieldings were people of the
educational class, and the best opportunities
of advancement for girls were given them;
and great pains was taken with young girls
at that period to acquire ease and grace of
manner, and proper deportment and polite-
ness, at all times. The cultivation of moral
development and preparation for home life
was a part of every young girl’s training, that
she might be a model wife, and even if she
remained a spinster know how to manage a
household.
	In this respect most of the women of that
day and age excelled those of a later time,
when more attention was given to the school
and to music, especially the piano, and less
to the preparation for the home and family.
	The Gospel as we all know does inspire
its devout followers, to bear all life’s bur-
dens with greater humility, and power of en-
durance, than any moral teaching however
excellent; yet in the case of Mary Fielding
she had this foundation to build upon, and
who shall say that she was not better pre-
pared for the many vicissitudes of her late
years for having the cultivation of those
homely virtues in her early career, so thor-
oughly grounded as to be a part of her very
self. Be that as it may, all of us who have
lived many long years, and have made good
use af our opportunities of studying human
nature must acknowledge, that the founda-
tion of a really well-balanced dominant and
masterful character is laid in early life.
	Looking back upon the time when I first
heard of and met Sister Mary Smith, I re-
call the remarks of sisters, who knew her
much more intimately; women near her own
age, while I was very young, and the impres-
sions I received from them were those that
obtained with me when I met her again, and
more often here in the valley, in the home
of Sister Vilate Kimball.

[Column 3]
	She was a woman who believed in the
charity that teaches people, able to work at
all, to help themselves, and she would and
did furnish employment and food, raiment
and shelter for many homeless and friend-
less ones, when other women perchance sit-
uated as she was would have asked for, and
would have needed assistance. This alone
gives a key to her selfhelpfulness and the
superior capability she possessed of hand-
ling means, and directing the energies and
activities of others; and when a woman can
handle people and means so wisely, and dis-
cretly without capital, except such as ac-
cumulates through her own perseverance and
enterprise, is it not positive proof of genuine
business ability and of an excellent knowl-
edge of controlling forces in life with un-
common skill and diplomacy?
	Sister Smith was not a woman who made
a noise about what she had done, or was
doing, but was very quiet and self-possessed,
and in fact reticent, she did not ask favors,
but was more ready to bestow them, than to
receive.
	She was very exemplary in her tithing and
donations, and in fact in all Church obliga-
tions. Her example is this respect is a very
striking illustration of woman’s independ-
ence and capability to stand alone, and
maintain her position, as the head of a
household, when circumstances required it;
and in this respect she succeeded admirably
with the help of the Lord on whom she re-
lied at all times and in all places.
	The one circumstance of her journey
across the plains, which she undertook in
face of almost superhuman obstacles is illus-
trative of the masterful character of this
wonderful woman, and deserves to be en-
graved conspicuously where our dainty
young women of today could read it when
they complain of daily tasks.
	In 1848, Sister Mary Fielding Smith de-
termined to come with the Saints who were
leaving Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river for the valley of the Great Salt Lake;
after she had strained every nerve as it were
to procure teams and means to go forward
with the company, and with such an experi-
ence, in dealing with cattle, steers, cows and
calves as few women know anything of, her
principal help being very young boys, Jos-
eph F. now President of the Church was
then not quite ten years old, his elder broth-
er John now Patriarch of the Church not
sixteen, Sister Mary Smith finally reached
the Elk Horn river, where the companies
were being organized for the plains, and re-
ported to Heber C. Kimball as having start-
ed for the valley. He assigned her to a Cap-
tain of Fifty who questioned her as to her
outfit, and learning just what number of
teams, cattle and so on, she had, the Cap-
tain said, addressing her, “It is folly for you
to start in this manner; you never can make
the journey, and if you try it you will be a
burden upon the company the whole way.
My advice to you is, to go back to Winter
Quarters and wait until you can get help.”
	Sister Mary Smith replied, with apparent
complacency “Father—I will beat you to
the valley, and will ask no help from you
either.”


[Column 1]
	“After this she sent back and succeeded in
getting by buying and hiring on credit, seve-
ral yoke of oxen from brethren who were not
able to emigrate that year, and when the
companies were ready to start she and her
family were better prepared for the journey.”
	The writer knows, all the difficulties en-
countered of this tedious journey across the
plains that year, when women were taken
care of, and protected by able-bodied men;
and also by observation and acquaintance
with women, who traveled depending upon
their own exertions and watchfulness of
every detail, how strenuous the circum-
stances were through which these pioneer
women had to pass, and how brave and un-
flinching scores of them were in the midst of
such scenes as they must of necessity now
and then encounter.
	But to continue the relation of Sister Mary
Smith’s victory; without enumerating the
many disasters by the way, when cattle were
lost and Indians and buffalo and other wild
creatures came down upon us “like the wolf
on the fold,” “one day driving slowly through
the sand and dust near the Sweetwater the
hot sun pouring down upon the poor ani-
mals hauling heavy loads,” one of Sister
Mary Smith’s best oxen laid down in the
yoke, rolled over on his side and stiffened
out his legs spasmodically, evidently in the
throes of death.”
	All the teams behind were stopped of
course, and people came forward to know
what was the matter. “The Captain on
ahead came back to know what was wrong. 
No one supposed the ox would recover, and
the Captain’s first words were, “He is dead
there is no use working with him; we’ll have
to fix up some way to take the widow along;
I told her she would be a burden upon the
company.”
	Meanwhile Sister Mary Smith was looking
for a bottle of consecrated oil she had in one
of the wagons, and just then came with it,
and asked her brother Joseph Fielding and
the other brethren to administer to the ox,
thinking that the Lord would raise him up.”
“They did so pouring a portion of oil on the
top of his head, between and back of the
horns, and all laid hands upon him, admin-
istering the ordinance as they would have
done to a human being that was sick. In a
moment he gathered up his legs, and arose
to his feet, and traveled right off as well as
ever. He was not even unyoked from his
mate.”
	September 22nd the company crossed over
“Big Mountain” near the valley; the western
side of it was very steep and they had to
rough-lock the hind wheels, and the forward
cattle were turned loose and only the wheel-
ers retained on the wagons; being anxious
to shorten the journey now they were so
near, they drove on until late into the night,
and camped near the foot of “Little Moun-
tain.” During the night several of Sister
Mary Smith’s cows that had been turned
loose were lost in the brush. The next morn-
ing John Smith went back to hunt for them. 
The Captain gave orders for starting earlier
than usual, although he knew Sister Mary
Smith would be obliged to wait till John
came with the lost cattle. The company
went on and she was left alone, with her
family. John was long in returning and she
could see the company ahead toiling far up
the mountain. At this time it seemed as
though her prediction would ingloriously
fail. But as the company neared the sum-
mit of the mountain a cloud burst, and the
rain poured down in torrents, causing utter
confusion. The cattle refused to pull, and

[Column 2]
to save the situation, the teams were un-
hitched and wheels blocked; the teamsters
run to shelter, and the storm drove the cattle
in every direction; after it was over it was a
day’s work to find the cattle and get them
together. Meantime John had come with
the stray cattle, the teams were hitched up,
and Sister Mary Smith and her family, with
teams and wagons climbed the mountain,
passed the company, and came on, arriving
in the valley twenty hours ahead of the Cap-
tain. “And thus was her prophecy fulfilled.”
	This little narrative needs no comment it
speaks for itself. Reminiscences of pioneer
women of the Church would fill volumes. It
is not only men who paved the way to make
Utah and the surrounding localities what it
is, but women have borne their share of the
burdens and hardships. We would not like
to carry the impression that because Sister
Mary Smith was heroic and self-sustaining,
and business like in methods and achieve-
ment, that she was heroic and self-sustaining,
and business like in methods and achieve-
ment, that she was in the least degree mas-
culine, such was not the case, she was
womanly to the heart’s core, she loved her
husband with intense devotion, she suffered
almost more than martyrdom in her feelings,
but she rose to the occasion in every trial,
and her prophetic nature no doubt helped
her stand the test of adversity and to prosper
where many weaker ones signally failed. 
These are but a small part of the personal
impressions made upon me of this sainted
woman. Her name must be handed down
in history, as one of the bravest heroines of
that period of the exodus from Nauvoo, and
the subsequent pioneer journey to the Great
Salt Lake Valley. A woman of mark and
distinction, not only in rare instances where
great victories are to be wrought-out, but in 
the days of the severest persecutions and
mobbings of Ohio and Missouri. Through
all these she came forth unscathed, a con-
queror to succeed! a mother to the mother-
less as well as her own! she kept the home
pure and bright and with her marvelous skill
and frugal management, plenty for her own
and to spare for those in need of true chari-
ty. Sister Mary Smith lived a magnificent
and glorious life, there was much of shadow
more than of sunshine in it, and many times
storms, tempests, and sometimes tragedies. 
Such lives are the grandest triumphs when
all is over and even “Death is swallowed up
in victory.”
	It is not possible to write of such women
without strong emotion, and a vivid appreci-
ation of the overwhelming conflicts of human
nature, with the higher soulfulness that suf-
fered and conquered.

Our vision of the infinite, afar,
	Is quickened and we draw so near
We almost see the gates of life ajar,
	And angel voices shouting praises hear;
And we interpret in our own poor way
	Some of the doubts and mysteries we’ve seen
But in the light of an eternal day
	Then we shall know why all these things have
		been.

Mary Fielding Smith, born July 21, 1801,
at Honidon, Bedfordshire, England, died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, September 21, 1852.

	Sister Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson,
younger sister of Sister Mary Fielding Smith,
was much better known among the people
here than her older sister, having lived in
this city fifty years and more after the death
of her sister Mary. 
	Sister Thompson was a woman of exceed-
ing great faith, one who loved to converse
upon spiritual subjects, was familiar with
the Bible and with all church works. It

[Column 3]
was her delight to talk of the Prophet
Joseph and his brother Hyrum and the won-
derful manifestations of their power and
authority, that were quite familiar to her
from association with the gifted Prophets,
Seers and Revelators. 
	Sister Thompson had been connected
with the Relief Society from its inception
and her estimate of woman and her strength
of mind and active energies was of the very
highest, and too, from believing that the
Prophet Joseph Smith had conferred upon
the sisterhood great blessings, that were to
be unfolding from time to time, and that
were in the process of development of great
intellectual and spiritual progress.
	Sister Mercy Thompson, the younger sis-
ter of Sister Mary Fielding Smith, of the
famous English Fielding Family, was in
many respects very unlike her senior sis-
ter, although she possessed some of the
same traits of character. Sister Thomp-
son lived many years in this city and
was very widely known, by her re-
markable work among the sick and afflicted,
which endeared her to many hearts, and
like some other benevolent women of her
time she was endowed as it were with the
gift of healing, she went much among the
poor and lowly of the Latter-day Saints, and
in many homes, she was like a ministering
angel; and in those early times in the val-
ley, when all were comparatively short of
provisions and means, she always seemed
to have wherewith to help others. 
	Sister Mercy Thompson was indeed a wo-
man of mark. In studying her character
one finds much that was unusual in her de-
velopment. Certainly she had like her il-
lustrious sister Mary the best education
given to young women of that time, and the
same sort of home training and discipline,
but the writer believes that the training of
a large family of children, such as Mary
Smith had to rear, and being in the midst of
such circumstances as the work necessitates,
brings out and strengthens more powers of
the soul and consciousness, than the quiet
life of a small household. At any rate its
tendency is to round out one’s character in
many directions. 
	Sister Thompson was of a distinctively
religious nature, one who would make al-
most any sacrifice to assist in building tem-
ples and other charitable and philanthropic
enterprises of a like nature. 
	She was a woman who had made the
most of her opportunities, she had married
younger in life than her sister Mary, and her
husband was a man of literary attainments,
and not having a large family to rear like
her elder sister, she had more time at her
disposal to cultivate her mind and spiritual
energies. We know moreover she was natur-
ally self-reliant, industrious and enterpris-
ing, and possessed the quality of thrift and
a sort of assertive independence. 
	Our sisters familiar with the Relief So-
ciety work can remember how zealous Sister
Thompson was in this field of labor, and
the untiring ministrations of charity that ex-
tended in a wider field than her own par-
ticular locality in the 16th ward and its
vicinity, but she was more, if I may say so,
more of a zealous devotee of temple work,
and sought by all the means in her power to
promote it by giving liberally of her means
and in various other ways. 
	Some people wait for opportunities to
come, but Sister Thompson sought for ways
and means to carry out her desires concern-
ing work for the dead, and with this end in
view in the summer of 1871, she visited


[Column 1]
Canada, the temporary home of the Field-
ings after leaving England, and while there
sojo[-]rning among her old friends and her
husband's relatives, collected much ma-
terial to add to the family record of the
Thompsons.
	She returned in March, 1872, and in Oc-
tober of the same year she started again on
a trip to England for similar purposes; ac-
companying President George A. Smith and
the Palestine party as far as England. Ar-
riving there she visited the home and scenes
of her girlhood, and numerous relatives and
friends, though she made it her principal
business to gather reliable genealogy for her
Temple records. During this time she bore
her testimony of the restoration of the Gos-
pel in this dispensation, wherever and when-
ever opportunity presented itself, and there
can be no doubt that such seed scattered
abroad will some day spring up and bear
fruit. Sister Thompson returned in June,
1873.
	Travels and journeyings of this kind give
a broader and more comprehensive view of
life, and are educational in the best sense
of the word; equipping one with more ma-
terial for doing good and rendering aid, and
service to others in the great work of this
age, when so much is to be accomplished by
the Saints both for the living and the dead.
	Sister Thompson was not a woman to
hide her light under a bushel, but to let it
shine abroad to the enlightening of her co-
laborers in the vineyard of the Lord, and so
we found her after these missions (if such
we may call them) doing more for her fel-
low-workers than ever before.
	The one virtue or characteristic that
seemed most beautiful of all in her later
life was the patience and resignation, which
was manifest in the fortitude with which she
bore pain and suffering, when she who had
been so active and apparently strong, be-
came more or less helpless, and dependent
upon others to assist her in moving about
(even in the room) when she could move at
 all. In this she showed the true spirit of
heroism. Not only did she bear her afflic-
tion bravely, but when her friends called
upon her, the atmosphere of her presence,
seemed to be of one being perfected through
pain and affliction.
	The sisters who called on her to express
sympathy came away comforted in the as-
surance that suffering had sanctified the
soul, so full was she of blessings for all and
praise to God for all His mercies and good-
ness; and one recalls in this connection the
words of the poet who wrote:
" 'Tis alone of his appointing
That our feet on thorns have trod.
Suffering, pain, renunciation
Only brings us nearer God."
	On June 15, 1898, a number of sisters went
to the home of Sister Thompson with hearts
filled wit[-] love and blessing for this aged
sister, to cheer and gladden her, and con-
gratulations for the birthday anniversary,
bringing appropriative gifts and choice flow-
ers in abundance.
	The day was spent in charming converse,
Sister Thompson relating many incidents of
the days of Nauvoo and those earlier scenes
of sacrifice and suffering for conscience sake.
Those dear sisters who were there on that
day can never forget the heavenly influence
that pervaded the room and seemed to fill
the hearts of all present. Three months
from that day Sister Thompson passed away,
and many of those present on that memor-

[Column 2]
able occasion have since gone to join the
hosts behind the veil.
"Those who have battled for truth with their
mind and might
With their garments clean and their armor
bright."
	Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson, born
in Preston, England, June 15, 1807; died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 15, 1898.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LOVE’S THRONE.

Do you love? then trust!
Tells you true your heart;
“Trust, have faith and trust,”
Criticized unjust,
Can you see your love?
Shield her then you must.

None may understand
Why you love her so,
Why you hold her hand.
Hearts are brittle things
Easily they break,
Pierced by cruel stings.

Then away love flies,
Far, so far away;
Heeding not your cries,
Cherished, will love stay
Ope your heart disclose
There his throne alway.
			LYDIA D. ALDER.


JULIA WARD HOWE.

She championed the cause of freedom,
	With the might of her living power,
When the slumbering nation wakened,
To the solemn need of the hour;

And fought her bloodless battles,
	With the aid of tongue and pen,
Till the shackles fell from the chattels,
	Aad they knew themselves as men.

Before the nation’s councils,
	Like a pilot in a storm,
She breasted the waves of oppression
	To achieve some grand reform.

She saw with a clarified vision
	The needs of the human race,
And gave her life to its service
	With infinite love and grace.

She has worn no chevrons of tinsel,
	Nor silken banners waved,
And the tears of her grateful sisters
	Were all the jewels she craved.

If ever her feet grew weary,
	Or her heart was heavy and sore,
She remembered the loving Master
	Trod the selfsame way before.

Then she girded anew for the conflict,
	And looked for light from above,
Renewed her soul at the fountain
	That springs from Eternal Love.

She hath seen the dawn of the morning,
	And the sun of equality rise;
God grant that its noonday splendor
	May gladden her waiting eyes.

May they live till the angel of Justice
	Spreads her pinions from sea to sea,
Till woman’s appeal for freedom
	Results in her liberty!
				WOMAN’S JOURNAL.


A BLESSING PENNED LONG AGO.
(The writer long since dead.)
	First of all that I would crave as the rich-
est of heaven’s blessings would be wisdom
from my Heavenly Father bestowed daily,
so that whatever I might do or say, I could


not look back at the close of the day wi[-]h
regret, nor neglect the performance of any
act that would bring a blessing. I desire
the Spirit of God to know and understand
myself, that I might be able to overcome
whatever of tradition or nature that would
not tend to my exaltation in the eternal
worlds. I desire a fruitful, active mind,
that I may be able to comprehend the de-
signs of God, when revealed through His
servants without doubting. I desire the
spirit of discernment, which is one of the
promised blessings of the Holy Ghost.
	I particularly desire wisdom to bring up
all the children that are, or may be com-
mitted to my charge, in such a manner that
they will be useful ornaments in the King-
dom of God, and in a coming day arise up
and call me blessed.
	I desire prudence that I may not through
ambition abuse my body and cause it to be-
come prematurely old and care-worn, but
that I may wear a cheerful countenance, live
to perform all the work I covenanted to per-
form in the spirit-world and be a blessing to
all who may in anywise need aught at my
ha[-]ds.
	I desire with all my heart to honor and
respect my husband as my head, to ever live
in his confidence and by acting in unison
with him retain the place which God has
given me by his side, and I ask, my Heav-
enly Father, that through humility, I may
be enabled to overcome the curse which was
pronounced upon the daughters of Eve. I
desire to see my kindred and friends em-
brace the principles of Eternal Truth, that I
may rejoice with them in the blessings
which God has in store for all who are will-
ing to be obedient to His requirements.
Finally, I desire that whatever may be my
lot through life I may ever be enabled to ac-
knowledge the hand of God in all things.
	These desires of my heart were called
forth by Joseph sending me word*
***that he had not
time to write as he would like, but I could
write out the best blessing I could think of
and he would sign the same on his return.


AN OLD LETTER.
			Nauvoo, Oct. 18, 1844.
Brother Heywood:
	Sir, I send by the stage twenty-two bags,
wishing Brother Hollingshead to send some
oats by the St. Bt. Osprey, as soon as is
convenient. The brick store will be empty
next week, and I would like well if you
could find it advantageous to your interest to
fill it with goods and groceries this fall, the
rent will be low. I think it a good time to
commence an establishment of that kind
here now, as there is a number of merchants
about to leave here soon.
	My family are all in good health at pres-
ent, and the brethren are generally well, with
the exception of Amasa Lyman, who has
been very sick, but is better now.
	My best respects to your family and all
our friends. Tell Mrs. Heywood I shall
keep those shoes she gave to Mr. Smith as a
memento both of her and my husband, too,
for I can never see them without remember-
ing them both.
			Respectfully your
				Most obedient
					EMMA SMITH.
Mr. J. Heywood.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON; Assistant Editor.
        
	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	AUGUST, 1908.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	To those intending to take the nursing
course taught by Dr. M. C. Roberts under
the direction of the General Board of Relief
Society it is desired that they communicate
as early as possible with the Secretary of
that department Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie
55 North, West Temple Street, so that suit-
able homes may be provided for them dur-
ing their course of study where they can
either pay for their boa[-]d or earn sufficient
to cover that obligation.
	The class will start September 21st, due
notice will be given later in regard to the
plaee where class will be held and other
particulars.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	BISHOP WILLIAM B. PRESTON.
	“Beyond the poet’s sweet dream lives
	The eternal epic of the man.”

	How true are these lines just quoted of
Bishop Preston, a man graced with every
quality and attribute of soul, to lift him to
the highest place in social and business life;
richly endowed by nature with that geni-
ality that is so rare among men of a com-
mercial character, but where it exists spon-
taneously as with Bishop Preston gives the
impression of true sincerity, and not simply
a desire to be courteous.
	Although living many years in the West,
he never lost the spirit of gallantry that is so
apparent in the well-bred men of the South
and particularly Virginia.
	That Bishop Preston belonged to one of
the oldest and most aristocratic families of
Virginians of the early settlements in that
locality the writer is aware from history.
	One might go on enumerating his noble
qualities of head and heart, his generosity
in giving, his hospitality which for many
years has been proverbial among this peo-
ple, and withal his loyalty to the Church of
Latter-day Saints of which he was a faithful
member and officer of trust, and yet one
could not do justice in words of appreciation
to his memory. A true lover of his country,
loyal to its government and institutions, and
seeking to promote all its interests, broad-
minded in the best sense of the word. How

[Column 2]
can one sum up his nobility of soul, his ten-
derness in the home circle, and to all with
whom he had to deal, especially women,
young or old.

	“Tho’ modest on his unembarras’d brow
	Nature had written—Gentleman.”

	Bishop Preston never hesitated to under-
take hard work; pioneering, colonizing in
the West as he has done requires men of
strong character and determination; he was
a good leader among men, and no doubt one
of the finest business managers in this wes-
tern land, this new country as to speak. He
was selected at different times to fill some
of the most important and trustworthy posi-
tions, and he never failed in his allegiance
to the people, or the trusts committed to his
care.
	William Bowker Preston was born Nov. 24,
1830, in Virginia, on the family plantation,
and became familiar with all the duties and 
responsibilities of a Southern planter.
	In 1852 he went on a trip to California in
the time of the gold fever and studied the
mining situation in Sacramento, but after
some experience in digging for gold, started
a plantation in the Yolo valley, where he
met the family of Brother John Thatcher
and became a convert to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints of which the
Thatcher family were members. Subse-
quently and not long afterwards he came to
Utah, at the time of Johnston’s army, when
President Brigham Young issued a call to
all of the members of the Church to assemble
in the Rocky Mountains. Wm. B. Preston with
the Thatcher family arrived here by way of
San Bernardino Jan. 1, 1858, and soon after,
he married Miss Harriet Ann Thatcher, Feb.
24, 1858. The marriage proved a happy one
judging from their beautiful home life, and
unbounded hospitality in entertaining of
which hundreds and thousands of Latter-day
Saints have partaken.
	After that time Brother Preston became
identified with large public interests, and
was in constant service whether at home or
abroad filling missions; there were always
responsible positions to be filled and he was
qualified to undertake whatever labor in the
Church he was called to perform, with honor
and credit to the Church and all concerned.
	Finally as a climax of his long career in
positions of trust and confidence, he was
chosen to succeed Bishop Edward Hunter
as Presiding Bishop of the Church in 1884, 
this gave him opportunities to be known to
all the people of the Latter-day Saints. The
years that followed this appointment were
weighted with heavy responsibilities requir-
ing great wisdom, prudence and knowledge
of business principles, to cope with the con-
ditions and circumstances in which the
Church affairs were placed in consequence
of adverse laws and various grievances that
had to be met and dealt with.
	Through all those trying years of his
stewardship Bishop Preston bore his share of
the responsibility with diplomatic energy
and heroic fortitude. He was unwavering
in his devotion to duty, and allegiance to
the Church. He maintained the dignity of 
his calling as Presiding Bishop so as to win
the admiration of all his associates in office,
fulfilling every duty to the entire satisfaction
of all the people concerned in Church inter-
ests at large; so far as it is possible for man
to do, certainly with unusual and intelligent
ability in that line of work which requires
diligence, patience and the quality of leader-
ship; an influence of power in management
that promotes peace and harmony among

[Column 3]
men of many countries with the attendant
customs and traditions.
	Bishop Preston has left a noble record on
the tablets of time.
	His memory will be engraven upon the
hearts of his co-workers and the Saints
generally. His wife and family to whom
he was so deeply attached must feel keenly
the loss of his dignified presence in the home
circle, and his intense sympathy with all the
griefs and sorrows that come into the lives
of those near and dear, but they doubtless
realize he has gone to his rest among the
blest, where some of the nearest and dearest
of his own kindred and children had gone
before him. “Blessed are the dead that die
in the Lord, yea from henceforth they rest
from their labors and their works do follow
them.”
	Bishop Preston departed this life on Sun-
day afternoon August 2, 1908, at 3 p.m. He
was sojourning for a change during the hot
weather with a part of his family at a sum-
mer resort in Cottonwood, he had not been
very well for some time but not seriously ill
until the crisis came, and he passed peace-
fully away like “one lying down to pleasant
dreams.” Such deaths are glorious, and yet
those near and dear must mourn, it is human
nature to feel keenly the loss of the society
and companionship of those we love. Brother
and Sister Preston had been married over
half a century, fifty years last February, and
to the wife bereft of the sweet companion-
ship of a beloved husband, the father of her
children awakens the sympathy of her friends
and the community, and yet we know “He
giveth his beloveth sleep.

He sees when their footsteps falter, when their
	hearts grow weak and faint;
He marks when their strength is failing, and lis-
	tens to each complaint;
He bids them rest for a season, for the pathway
	has grown too steep;
And folded in fair, green pastures, He giveth his
	loved ones sleep,
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
Weep not that their toils are over, weep not that
	their race is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly, when our work
	like theirs is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our treas-
	ures to Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth his
	loved ones sleep.”

	Bishop Preston’s body was brought to this
city and after he was arrayed in his beauti-
ful white robes and placed in the casket he
was taken to the Assembly Hall which had
been tastefully draped in white; many floral
offerings of lovely blossoms adorned the cas-
ket, gifts of loving friends and associates.
	Impressive funeral services were held at
one p. m. President Joseph F. Smith was
present, the Tabernacle choir rendering the
sweetest music. Eloquent tributes to his
life and character were paid by the First
Presidency and Apostles, and after the con-
clusion of the services here the body was
taken to Logan for burial in the family plat
there, where members of his family had prev-
iously been buried.
	Funeral services were also held in the
Tabernacle at Logan, the city where so many
years of his active life had been passed in the
Master’s service.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There have been so many entertainments
that ought to be mentioned in this little pa-
per, and so litte space to give to each one
that we have decided to make only brief
notes and apologize to our patrons for not


[Column 1]
giving fuller accounts of interesting social
events.
	June 4, 1908, the 40th anniversary of
the marriage of Brother and Sister W. B. Dou-
gall was celebrated in their handsome new
home N. State Street, in a most beautiful
way without ostentation or show. The
rooms were artistically decorated with roses
principally, as June is the month of roses.
Old friends were invited to participate in
the festivities, and many fervent congratu-
lations were offered as well as gifts and
blessings. The great feature of enjoyment
was the choice vocal and instrumental music
exquisitely rendered for the delectation of
the guests, the selections being made from
old masters. Another feature that will al-
ways mark the event as of great significance
was the eloquent prayer offered by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, dedicating by re-
quest the new home of Brother and Sister
Dougall. The evening was rainy outside,
but within all was peaceful and enjoyable.
The bride of forty years wore her wedding
gown of long ago, and carried a bouquet of
bride roses, and looked as charmingly happy
as though she were in reality the young
bride. The bridegroom bore his honors as
grandly as he could have done on that great
occasion forty years before.
She full of grace and rich in happiness.
He with the sober years of manliness.
	A reception was tendered United States
Senator Reed Smoot, Tuesday evening, June
9, at the home of Brother and Sister Jacob
F. Gates. The affair was unique in many
respects, and rather informal, and very de-
lightful. Hon. Thomas Hull was master of
ceremonies and did the honors admirably,
relieving the host and hostess, so that their
pleasure was enhanced instead of hindered.
Clive’s band furnished excellent music, and
the speeches were short and interesting,
wit and brilliancy interspersed. The speak-
ers were Elder J. G. McQuarrie of the East-
erm Mission, President Joseph F. Smith,
President F. M. Lyman, Hon. Reed Smoot
and Mrs. Reed Smoot, who gave a glimpse
of Washington society, and a real Utah
home in Washington. There were recita-
tions by young talented women, Maud May
Babcock and Mrs. Belle Ross, Apostle H.
J. Grant sang “The flag without a stain,”
and there were other distinguished gentle-
men who spoke briefly and interestingly.
Light refreshments were served during the
evening. Among the distinguished ladies
present we recall the venerable lady Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith, Sister Rhoda
Lyman, and many younger women, wives
of Apostles, and Presidents of Stakes.
Brother and Sister Gates are to be congratu-
lated on having made a perfect success of
this reception.
	Wednesday, June 10, 1908, annual meet-
ing of the Daughters of the Revolution, Utah
State Society, met in room 509 Templeton
Building, to elect officers for the ensuing
year. After preliminany exercises and the
transaction of some business, the following
ladies were elected by unanimous vote of
the members present: Regent, Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright; First Vice-Regent, Mrs. Emily Y.
Clawson; Second Vice-Regent, Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith; Recording Secretary, Mrs. Clarissa
Y. Spencer; Corresponding Secretary, Mrs.
Julia F. Lund; Treasurer, Mrs. Emily H.
Willey; Registrar. Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears;
Historian, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth;
Chaplain, Mrs. Rachel Campbell. After
the officers were elected the annual meet-

[Column 2]
ing was adjourned for one year, and notice
given that the next regular meeting would
be held on Wednesday, September 16, as
usual after summer vacation.
	Thursday, June 11, was the formal open-
ing of Whitney Hall, a new building erected
in the 18th ward of this city, adjoining the
Ward Chapel. The occasion was some-
thing of a house-warming and was in a way
informal, as the hall is not yet to be dedi-
cated. There were opening exercises of
prayer and singing conducted by the Bishop,
T. A. Clawson, and an eloquent address
suited to the occasion by Elder Orson F.
Whitney, Bishop of the ward for many
years, giving a sort of history of the ward in
the past and explanations as to the name,
all of which was very briefly summed up
necessarily. President Joseph F. Smith
spoke feelingly and reverently of those who
had rendered service in the ward in the past,
and congratulated those who had assisted in
getting so commodious a place for social en-
tertainments. There was excellent music,
vocal and instrumental, followed by danc-
ing and supper. At some future time we
hope to give a good sketch of this building
named for the late Bishop Orson F. Whit-
ney and his illustrious grandfather Presid-
ing Bishop Newel K. Whitney.
	Friday Evening, June 12, the General
Board of the Young Ladies M. I. A. gave a
reception in Whitney Hall to the visiting
Stake officers, the First Presidency, Apos-
tles and Church officials, and the General
officers of the Relief Society and Primary.
It was a very grand affair on a broad scale,
and the music, dancing and refreshments
were all of a high order of excellence. The
spirit of unity and good fellowship was par-
ticularly apparent, and it equaled if it did
not surpass, the yearly entertainments or re-
ceptions of previous years. It is a sort of
Herculean undertaking to give these large
affairs and make them a success. Our young
ladies however have never failed to give sat-
isfaction to all invited, find it is a great
pleasure to entertain so royally those who
are laboring so effectually in the various lo-
calities, far away from headquarters when
they come once a year to receive instruction
from those who preside over all.
	Saturday, June 13, 1908, was Primary day
for the General Society and Stake officers.
Every year the day of the “outing” is look-
ed forward to with eager anticipation by
those from a distance particularly. Wanda-
mere now seems a very popular resort for
summer pic nics and excursions, it has many
attractions, and is kept free from "hood-
lums” which is very desirable. This year
the Primary chose Wandamere, for the enter-
tainment of the Association and guests; the
day was not very propitious but one cannot
always have fine weal her even in June. There
were a large number assembled and more
than an abundance of good things to eat;
the meeting of old friends at times like these
is a very great pleasure and the General
Board of the Primary is noted for the great
courtesy and liberality extended to all inter-
ested in this important work for the children
of Zion.
	This year Utah Daughters of the Pioneers
gathered at Wandamere the 15th of June for
their annual outing, and as Flag Day, June
14, came on Sunday it happened to combine
the two things. The President Mrs. Susa
Young Gates conducted the exercises, had

[Column 3]
Clives band engaged and progra[-] arranged.
There was considerable enthusiasm, some
very fine singing by talented young girls and
excellent music, and quite a number of vet-
erans were present, belonging to various
organizations. Some very good speeches
were made, the President herself being
most happy in her remarks and several of
the speakers particularly the ladies gave
entertaining reminiscences.
	The marriage of Zina Young Card and
Hugh B. Brown took place in the Salt Lake
Temple, Wednesday, June 17, 1908, the
bride is the granddaughter of President
B[-]igham Young and of Sister Zina D. H.
Young one of the most noted women of her
time in the Church, and the daughter of Pre-
sident O. S. and Zina Y. Card. After the
ceremony a wedding breakfast was given at
the home of the bride’s mother at which
were assembled the immediate family of
Sister Zina and a very few invited guests,
among the number the editor who con-
sidered it quite an honor, to be one of so hap-
py a wedding party. The most elaborate
congratulations were given and many gifts
of love for the young couple to take with
them to Canada, where they intend to make
their permanent home, and may it be a pa-
radise on earth and the Holy Spirit dwell
therein.
“Across the threshold led
And every tear kissed off as soon as shed,
His house she enters, there to be a light,
Shining within when all without is night;
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
Doubling his pleasures, and his cares dividing.”
	Wednesday from 3 to 6 p. m., June 17,
Mrs. C. F. Wilcox and her daughter Miss
Mona who had but just graduated from the
Utah University gave a reception in honor
of the happy event. It was a very pleasant
and enjoyable affair, although the rain pour-
ed down in torrents, the ladies came, many
in full evening dress; the decorations were
artistic and exquisite and the delicacies
served in the way of refreshments were dain-
tily delicious. As it was also the birthday
of Dr. Wilcox’s mother; she assisted in
receiving the entire afternoon; excellent
music rendered by a string band, added to
the pleasure of the guests who seemed to
enjoy every moment. It was indeed a charm-
ing affair and everything was delightful ex-
cept the weather, and that was out of doors.
	At the home of Mrs. John Groesbeck, Jr.,
Tuesday, June 23, a luncheon party was
given for her mother Margaret G. Clawson,
the guests were most of them Temple work-
ers about 25 or 30. The rooms were prettily
decorated with roses and other June flowers,
and the luncheon was par excellence, and
naturally very appetizing and seasoned with
wit and humor necessarily when Margaret
Clawson and Phebe Kimball get together;
this sort of conversation is good for diges-
tion. Half the pleasure of Sister M. G.
Clawson’s parties is the fine viands and the
other half is the enlivening conversation, it
does not depend much on her guests. She
has always been popular with the young
people, and now she is becoming very popu-
lar with the elderly sisters.
	Mrs. A. W. Carlson gave a garden party
on June 23, at her own residence, out doors
and in; some of Sister Clawson’s guests left
early to attend this Garden party, which was
made very attractive by the beautiful trees
and shrubbery, and especially by the cherry
trees, full of ripe red cherries, that added


[Column 1]
greatly to the beauty of the landscape. Mrs.
Carlson is a charming hostess and a prime
favorite with her friends, who are very num-
erous. We are sorry we have not space to
elaborate more fully on these two parties 
that occurred on the same day, but we can
remember them, and the ladies we met at
both places, and the good fellowship that
brings those who meet often closer to-
gether and year after year the ties grow
stronger.
	Thursday, July 9, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Sophia Sharp and her
daughter Mrs. James E. Jennings gave a 
party in her honor to a large number of her
mother’s relatives and friends, in her hand-
some and commodious home. As it was
the midsummer many of the ladies were in
white, and all in light beautiful raiment
making an artistic picture in the midst of
the elegant furnishings of the rooms and the
exquisite floral decorations. The refresh-
ments were dainty and delicious and beauti-
fully served by little girls in white with rib-
bons, etc.,  the pretty grand daughters of
Mrs. Sophia Sharp and Mrs. Priscilla Jen-
nings. One may be sure there was no lack
of interesting conversation where so many
intelligent ladies were gathered and the par-
ty was therefore a brilliant success in every
respect. The Exponent extends congratula-
tions to the dear little lady, and wishes for
her many more returns of the day with health
and strength to enjoy life, and may her lines
be cast in pleasant places henceforth.
	Saturday, at 12 m., July 11, a luncheon
was given at the Utah University by the
Dean of Domestic Science Miss Lucy Van
Cott, and some special invitations were giv-
in a way informally, the General Officers and
Board of the Relief Society and of the Young
Ladies Associations were invited and the
affair was made very delightful and inter-
esting. New methods were explained, and
the general condition and status of this par-
ticular department were practically explain-
ed. Miss Van Cott seems to have made
good use of her advanced training in Eastern
Colleges, and is very competent to undertake
the superintending of a wider system of the
work, than is possible at present even in the
new University building that her students
occupy at present. She gave a fine talk on
the subject which is in reality a home topic,
Prof. Wm. Stewart spoke on the kindergarten
and kindred subjects a department which is
his pet theme, and Prof. Kingsbury occupied
a few minutes on the general situation of
the University and in praise of the pioneers,
and of their descendants taking a greater in-
terest in the institution founded by them so
many years ago in the new west. The writer
was requested to speak and incidentally al-
luded to the topic which Prof. Kingsbury
had so eloquently and ably referred to, and
also expressed the pride felt by all the early
settlers in the growth and excellence of this
University established in the Great west at
such an early period. Mrs. Martha H. Tin-
gey spoke by special request, expressing the
feeling entertained by the young women in
that organization, to help forward the good
work undertaken by Miss Van Cott which 
was certainly a laudable undertaking and
should be encouraged and patronized by the
community. The lady visitors were shown
through the buildings and explanations were
made to the party in regard to the buildings
and grounds.
	Tuesday, July 21, the Relief Society of the
four Stakes of Zion had their annual outing

[Column 2]
at Wandamere. The day was fair and a sort
of program was expected when the crowd
gathered at the dancing pavilion, Gen. John
Q. Cannon had been asked to act as Master
of ceremonies and though there was not
much of a program there was a very pretty
fairy dance by a dozen or more little girls in
fairy costume. Miss Ivy Evans who has a 
fine soprano voice sang a popular sang; and
Georgie Young played the violin very sweet-
ty, a very beautiful little girl gave a fancy
dance in the most delightful style, Clive’s
band was in attendance furnishing excellent
music.  After the announcement had been
made that the program was over, Brother T.
H. Morrison stepped forward and asked the
privilege of speaking a few words and mount-
ing the improvised platform, he announced
that he desired to present fifty dollars to the
President of the Relief Society, because of 
favors bestowed upon himself and family
when they came to Salt Lake City, strangers
in a strange land without home, and in time
of sickness and death, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, General President of the Relief Soci-
ety, came forward and received the donation
in gold, thanking him heartily for the gift.
Gratitude for favors in time of need is an
admirable quality in human character and
all of the sisters present felt to bless Brother
Morrison for his liberality.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A BEAUTIFUL TESTIMONY.
To the Editor of the Exponent:
	DEAR SISTER E. B. WELLS:
	As I am owing for the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, I would like to pay the same and
also bear my testimony to the truth of the
work in which we are engaged; and also to
the good work and spiritual assistance of
the Woman’s Exponent of which I have
been a subscriber since its first publication,
I hope to continue taking the paper as long
as I live, or as long as I am able to read its
contents. If I were able to express my
feelings, dear sister Wells, of the spiritual
strength and enjoyment gained by reading
the Exponent, the heavenly and spirited
testimonies given by the true and faithful
sisters, whose lives have been a continual
warfare against wrong which has made them
strong in the Lord our God; and able to
teach or instruct the sisters on the true jour-
ney and pathway to gain salvation and hap-
piness, I feel like bearing my testimony
that the Exponent carries the light of the
Gospel along with its teachings into every
home where it is taken, and I hope it will
continue successfully in the future.
	I was born in an out of the way hamlet in
Jutland, Denmark, January 2, 1825, where
all might feel secure from the Mormons; but
the Lord’s ways are not our ways. He is
no respector of persons.
	Two Mormon Elders found us and bore
testimony that God had revealed himself to
Joseph Smith and given him the everlasting
Gospel to proclaim to all men. I tried to
argue with the missionaries, but was unable
to cope with them, as many of the passages
I had learned as scripture were not from the
Bible, but merely the notions of the Luther-
ian Church. I was religious in my own
way and asked God to give me wisdom to
do what was right. In a short time my sister
and I fully believed in the Gospel as taught,
and we thought sure no one could hear and
not believe the Gospel truths, but we soon
found out differently. We had a hard strug-
gle to be free from obeying our own con-

[Column 2]
science. We succeeded at last, and my sis-
ter and I were baptized in June, 1855. We
soon got the spirit of emigration to Zion.
We sought the Lord in humble prayer to
open the way for us with our scanty means,
and the next day the hand cart organization
was established which suited us. We were
young and had no family. We were able
to work whenever needed, and were full of
faith and hope. A little less than two
years after we were baptized we left all that
was near and dear to us in an earthly way
in Denmark, sailing from Copenhagen, April
18, 1857. We arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 13, five months later; but from
July till September we had been working
our way with handcarts for 1300 hundred
miles over sandy hills and big mountains
and rivers; but all was well, we were going
to Zion and we reached the place all right.
Praise be to the name of the Lord.
	I was taken from the camp in a buggy to
McKenny’s in the 10th ward where I worked
all winter weaving. Mrs. McKenny was
good to me and so was everybody else. I
was married February, 1858 to S. P. Eggert-
sen one of my own kinsmen, just before he
was called to go to Echo Canyon to help
watch our enemies. My sister and I were
then moved to Provo where our husbands
found us later. Provo 2nd ward was made
our home and there I have lived for over
fifty years together with my husband and
children. We have helped to build up
Provo both temporally and spiritually and
hope to continue.
	I have been a member of the Relief Soci-
ety from its first organization in Provo, in
1868, and have tried in my weakness to work
in my calling according to counsel, together
with my good band of energetic, united sis-
ters who aimed to make this society harmon-
ize with the Prophet Joseph’s instructions
to the sisters when first organized. I feel
like we succeeded pretty well. I have been
a widow nearly eight years but have child-
ren taking their father’s place taking care of
mother, and working for the upbuilding of
Zion. I feel I am greatly blessed in my old
age, I have friends wherever I go, I am
treated with kindness and respect for which
I am thankful to my heavenly Father. I
have partly lost my hearing, which is try-
ing and humiliating to me.
	I wish every success to the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, hoping it may have a place in every
home belonging to the Latter-day Saints, to
encourage and strengthen them in hope,
faith and charity.
			Yours very truly,
				JOHANNA EGGERTSEN.


DELEGATE FROM UTAH AT THE
WOMAN’S CONGRESS.
	At the Congress of the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance, held in Amster-
dam, Holland, from June 15th to 21st, Dr. 
Romania B. Penrose attended as delegate
from Utah by the appointment of Governor
John C. Cutler. The meetings were held in 
the Concertgebouw, one of the most capa-
cious buildings in the city, and representa-
tives were there from all the civilized coun-
tries of the world. Part of the program was 
to have been short speeches on the practical
effects of woman suffrage, by delegates from 
Utah, Wyoming, Idaho and Colorado, the
four states of the American Union in which
woman suffrage has been for some time
established. The governors of those states


[Column 1]
had appointed delegates in response to an
invitation from the Alliance, but the dis-
tance being so great, none were present with
the exception of Dr. R. B. Penrose, who
delivered the following address, which was
reseived wfth much applause:
	The elective franchise was given to the
women of Utah by act of the Legislature in
1870, while Utah was a territory of the
United States, so that when the State was
organized and admitted into the Federal
Union in 1895; woman suffrage could not
be considered in the light of an experi-
ment. In the State Constitution which was
approved by the President of the United
States, a provision was incorporated placing
women on a political equality with men.
Every citizen of the United States, of either
sex, who has resided in the State one year,
in the county four months, and in the pre-
cinct thirty days next preceding an election
and who is twenty-one years of age, is en-
titled to vote at said election. This was
adopted by a large majority of the dele-
gates in the Constitutional Convention,
after a long and heated debate in which all
the old objections to woman suffrage were
brought forward and vanquished.
	The good effects of woman suffrage in
Utah are numerous. Among them are
these: The primaries, conventions, and
polling places are conducted in proper or-
der without unseemly wrangles, vulgar lan-
guage, and profanity, and free from the
uncleanness of tobacco-using, due respect
being shown to the ladies, who are treated
as political equals with male citizens, and
with that gallantry, which becomes gentle-
men when in their society. Women are
chosen on the various committees and their
views are sought for and given due weight.
Women have been elected to the State
Legislature, and whether as Senators or
Representatives, have served with signal
ability; have taken part in debates on prom-
nent public questions; have introduced
measures which have passed into law, and
have exereised an influence which has been
recognized and appreciated.
	Women have also been elected to and re-
ceived appointments in various county
offices, and have served on State boards of
directors for colleges and asylums, and
on school boards. They are recognized fac-
tors in political parties, and whether as
Republicans or Democrats, their influence
is felt and courted, for they choose their
own party principles and candidates, often
on the other side from their husbands,broth-
ers and sons. This, however, has not led to
those disruptions in families which were
predicted to follow these conditions.
	The influence of political power in woman
is being felt in aid of the temperance wave
that is passing over the great West, for
the suppression of the drinking saloon, and
the banishment of those temptations which
have led so many souls into vice, intemper-
ance and debauchery, For with the ballot
woman is armed with a weapon of attack
and defense that in some respects is strong-
er than her tongue, and which gives practical
effect to her word. Her influence with the
ballot is also potent in the selection of hon-
orable, clean, and upright men for public
stations, and the turning down of the unfit
and those who seek public office for private
pelf. 
	The elective franchise has given to women
influence for the reformation of many pub-
lic institutions and regulations. For in-
stance the establishment of retention homes
for females, with women matrons and in-

[Column 2]
spectors of the accused. Also in reform
schools; in the promotion of juvenile courts;
in the cleansing and beautifying of cities
and towns; in the promotion of public mor-
als. It was a woman legislator who intro-
duced a bill, which became a law, against
the wearing of huge hats in places of amuse-
ment by which the general public has been
greatly benefitted. Woman has vigor-
ously supported enactments against expec-
toration on street cars and street pavements,
and similar regulations for the public health
and convenience.
	By the enfranchisement of women, the
agitation over the much vexed question of
political equality has been settled in Utah,
and the contention and strife which it has
evoked has passed away, and woman shares
with man the power that full freedom
brings. And this puts her in her proper
place by his side, instead of under his
thumb or his foot or other unjust domin-
ion. It has not robbed her one whit of her
womanliness or hindered the performance
of home duties. She is just as good a wife,
a mother, a sister, or an aunt as she could
be without the rights and privileges which
the ballot brings to her. She can teach
human rights and the principles of govern-
ment to her children, and imbue her sons
with the spirit of that liberty she herself en-
joys. She is no longer a political serf, but
a citizen in the full sense of the term, a part
of the nation, having a voice in the making
of the laws which she is required to obey, in
accord with the eternal principle that, “all
governments derive their just powers from
the consent of the governed.” Utah stands
third on the list of educational status among
the forty-six states of the American Union,
and her position is largely due to the influ-
ence of free, progressive and enfranchised
womanhood.
	There are offices in the gift of the people
for which women are especially adapted.
There are others which can be better filled by
men. The good sense of the voter, both
male and female, is, or should be, exercised
in their selection. This has been exempli-
fied in the workings of equal suffrage, and
the universal acceptance of this righteous
eqnality cannot fail to bring to the world
greater freedom, higher justice, closer union
and advancement in every thing that will
elevate humanity, and bring them to that
condition of harmony, fraternity and peace
foreseen by the prophets and heralded by
the poets and sages of ancient and modern
times.
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.

	Delivered June 16, 1908, Conccrtgebouw,
Amsterdam, Holland.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REUNION.
	Minutes of the Tooele Stake Relief So-
ciety Reunion held in Grantsville on June
25, 1908, at 2 p, m., President Alice R.
Woolley presiding. All the Stake officers
were present, Alice R. Woolley, Rose
Hammond, Maggie W. Anderson, Mary E.
Halladay, Lillian Gillespie, Lillian H. An-
derson. After the opening exercises, Presi-
dent Woolley welcomed the sisters, told us
every ward in the stake was represented, for
which she was very thankful. Felt that
Relief Society work was a great blessing to
the sisters, uniting them in love and unity.
Relief Society work is likened to the work
of our Savior. Asked the Spirit of the Lord
to be with us. She received a telephone


message from President Gowans saying that
on account of the sickness of his wife he
was unable to be with us; sent regrets for
other members of the Stake Presidency.
	Sister Louie Hale made a few remarks;
was so glad to meet with the sisters. Felt
thankful that the Relief Society was organ-
ized to make us better women and mothers.
Said Sister Mary A. Hunter, our former
Stake President sent her love and wished
she could have met with us today.
	Sister Agnes Judd played an organ solo.
	Sister Rose Hammond spoke of the happy
hours she had spent in Relief Society meet-
ings. Testified to the good spirit enjoyed
by the sisters, and hoped we would always
realize from whom our blessings came.
	Sister Lillian H. Anderson read a humor-
our piece entitled “How we Hunted a
Mouse.”
	Sister Shields, of Lake View Ward, sang
a solo.
	Sister Emily Anderson was thankful to
meet with the sisters, hoped we would have
a good time together. A good Relief Soci-
ety member is a good member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We 
renew our friendships in these reunions.
	Sister Lillian Gillespie read a paper on
the beauties of motherhood.
	Sister Maggie Anderson wished all to
understand  that when we hold a stake re-
union every one is invited to attend, spoke
of the blessings of Relief Society work, we
need spiritual food when we are raising our
families.
	Sister Lizzie Barrus sang a solo, “Count
Your Many Blessings.”
	Sister Steele read a paper entitled “An
Old Fashioned Standard of Life.”
	A paper prepared by Sister Jean Bennion
of Vernon was read by Sister Mary E. Hal-
laday, as the writer was unable to be pres-
ent.
	The reunion program closed by singing
“O, ye mountains high.” Benediction by
Sister Mary E. Halladay.
	The company then assembled on the lawn
beside the meeting house where refresh-
ments were served to all, which ended a
very enjoyable sociable time.
		MARY E. HALLADAY, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
			BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference and
officers meeting held in tabernacle at Paris,
July 12, 1908. President Nancy E. Pugmire
presiding.
	Sisters Elizabeth S. Wilcox and Minnie H.
James being our visitors of the General Re-
lief Society.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer
and other usual exercises.
	President Nancy E. Pugmire gave a few
opening remarks.
	Alton, Cokeville, Laketown and Bern Re-
lief Society organizations reported.
	Different business was attended to con-
cerning real estate and other land and pro-
perty of the several Relief Society wards.
	Sister Nancy Allred was honorably re-
leased with a vote of thanks from the posi-
tion of Stake Secretary, having another re-
sponsible position to fill.
	Sister Nina Michaelson was voted in as
Stake Secretary.
	Sister Margaret Stucki was also released
as Stake Treasurer with a vote of thanks.
	Sister Sarah Allred of St Charles was
voted in as Treasurer.


[Column 1]
	President J. R. Shepherd thought it a very
wise thing of our president to choose her
secretary and treasurer from St. Charles, so
as to be near at hand when business is pres-
sing.
	A beautiful recitation was given by Sister
Nina Michaelson accompanied by her sister,
she also read a piece that had been compos-
ed for the Relief Society.
	One of the visiting sisters spoke of how
her memories were awakened by the beauti-
ful surroundings, and our lovely climate,
had heard so much from her mother, Sister
Horne, exhorted all to be faithful and take
care and train the children right and lend a
helping hand.
	Closed by singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m. President
N. E. Pugmire presiding. Opened by choir
singing, “Jerusalem The Golden.” Sacra-
ment was then administered.
	Sister Mary Bagley then spoke for a short
time in a kind motherly way.
	Recitation by Gertrude Rich, “A Child.”
	Then President Laker addressed us.
	Sister James, one of the General Board,
spoke of the good the Relief Society had ac-
complished, we should extend the hand of
friendship, there is no greater blessing on
earth than Motherhood, told how scientists
look at the “Word of Wisdom,” and they
also think it very good to fast, exhorted us
all to faithfulness and doing good.
	A solo by Clara Williamson.
	Sister E. S. Wilcox spoke of how she en-
joyed the talent that had been exhibited and
also in behalf of the EXPONENT and spoke
very interestingly of how we can help each
other in doing everything that is noble and
good.
	President J. R. Shepherd had been very
much interested, spoke of the great help the
Relief Society is to the bishop, said “it is
much more blessed to give than to receive;”
that in the performance of our duties comes
the greatest blessing, to woman has especi-
ally been given love and devotion to her
children. What a wonderful religion we
have, it includes everything, grand and
noble, we have the greatest fraternal organ-
ization. May the Lord bless the sisters and
bless us all.
	President N. E. Pugmire thanked all who
had helped in any way to make the meet-
ings interesting.
	Closed with singing “Lift up your heads.”
Benediction, Elnora Austin.
				LOUISE TUELLER,
							Cor. Sec.
			RIGBY STAKE.
	The first quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Rigby Stake convened at Rigby,
Idaho, June 19, 1908, commencing at 10 a.
m., President Ann T. Walker presiding. Af-
ter the opening exercises roll of stake and
ward officers was called, showing a full at-
tendance of stake officers and seven wards
out of eight. Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the Gen-
eral Board of the Relief Society were in at-
tendance. The following wards were re-
ported as being in a fairly good condition
by their presidents: Annis, Alice R. Luf-
kin; Grant, by Sarah A. C. Miller; Lewis-
ville, by Elizabeth Gilchrist; Menan, by Mary
Stephens; Rigby, by Harriet Chandler.
Duet sung by Brother and Sister Silcocks of
Grant ward.
	Sister Elizabeth Wilcox addressed the
congregation on envy, and the temptations
which surround our children. Parents
should guard their children very closely.

[Column 2]
Let us as mothers in Israel build a firm
character. We believe in eternal progres-
sion. Love one another. There are num-
berless kind acts performed daily by sisters
of the Relief Society of which no account is
kept, she bore testimony to the divinity of
the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Solo, “Sing Me to Sleep,” sung by Sister
Ethel Call.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenbery made
references to some of the false things which
are spoken in the world against the Latter-
day Saint. Said our influence should be
of the best, for we can do more good by ex-
ample than precept. Related a testimony
received by a brother in the east, from meet-
ing with the “Mormon” Elders, who im-
planted in his heart by their acts as well as
teachings a love for the Gospel, and it was
impossible for him to quench the testimony
in his heart, although he had endeavored to
for six years. “We can preach a sermon
every day of our lives in our actions.”
	Conference convened at 2 p. m. with
President Ann T. Walker presiding. Stake
Counselors Julia A. Dabell and Lussania R.
Lawson bore testimony, and had found
great pleasure and satisfaction in comforting
and caring for the sick.
	Secretary Fanny Z. Perry reported the
Rudy Ward not doing anything at present.
President Ann T. Walker reported the stake,
said, “We have over 3,000 bushels of wheat
and $110 cash on hand. The stake presi-
dency have visited every ward in the stake
and found them doing a good work with the
exception of one. The following stake Re-
lief Society missionaries bore testimony to
the grandeur of Relief work: Sally A. Cor-
don, Annie C. Selck, Sarah Scott, and Treas-
urer Mary Ellen Call.
	Sister Elizabeth Wilcox encouraged the
sisters to support the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Said it had been suggested by the General
Board that some of the papers written on
Motherhood be sent to the editor of the EX-
PONENT for publication.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry spoke of
the beauties of nature, said we are fitted for
the burdens we have to bear, our trials make
us love more and have charity one for an-
other, spoke of the joy and satisfaction
which is brought to one’s soul for waiting
on the sick. “Give a kind word to mothers
for they do need and deserve encouragement.
Make confidents of your children, gain their
love and respect. It is very necessary to
keep good company or you will be contami-
nated by association with evil, bind your
children to you with love.”
	A paper on Motherhood was read by Stake
Relief Society Missionary, Hannah Morgan.
	Mary Anglesey, president of Labell Ward,
reported.
	President William W. Selck, Jr., Josiah
Call and Don C. Walker all endorsed the
remarks of the sisters and exhorted all to
take heed to the counsel given and be ener-
getic workers in the Kingdom of God.
	President Ann T. Walker thanked the
visiting sisters for their visit and comforting
advice and counsel; also appreciated and
expressed thanks to the members of the

[Column 3]
Rigby Ward for their kindness and hospi-
tality shown the sisters.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
after singing and prayer.
	MARY J. M. ROBINSON, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	By an accident from runaway stage horses, it
becomes our painful duty to record the sad death
of our beloved sister, Mary Ann Broadbent, aged
78, which occurred on the 6th of April, 1908.
	She was a woman full of faith and good works,
always ready to help the poor, the sick, and for
many years Auntie Broadbent (as she was affec-
tionately called) was always the one most forward
in making the clothing for the dead. She was
for several years president of the Primary Associ-
ation, and an ardent worker in the Sabbath
School.
	A faithful laborer in the Relief Society, her
voice was always in defense of the Gospel restored
to earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith in
this dispensation of the fulness of times, leaving
her native land and all that was dear for its sake.
	We the officers and members of the Kanab Re-
lief Society express our sorrow and sincere sym-
pathy with her bereaved husband (now in his 91st
year,) and her companion, and family. Soon they
will be reunited and sorrow and sighing will be
no more. They have all kept the faith and will
rise to a glorious resurrection with the righteous
in the Father’s Kingdom:
	Sarah J. Crosby President; E. A. Chamberlain,
L. A. Farnsworth, Counselors: A. B. McAllister,
Secretary; Rebecca E. Mace, Treasrer.


I. W. S. A.
	The meeting of the International Woman
Suffrage Alliance opened at Amsterdam on
June 15, with a large attendance. Some of
the dispatches call it the largest Interna-
tional Congress of women ever held. Dele-
gates were present from America, Bulgaria,
Bohemia, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Eng-
land, Finland, Hungary, Italy, Holland, New
Zealand, Norway, Russia, Austria, Ireland,
Sweden; Switzerland and elsewhere. In all,
23 countries were represented. There was
one male delegate, the representative of the
Men’s League for Women’s Suffrage in Eng-
land. He was cordially received, as he de-
served to be. A cantata of welcome was
sung by 300 women 80 little girls and 60
boys. An address of welcome followed by
Dr. Aletta Jacobs, president of the Nether-
lands Woman Suffrage Association. Mrs.
Carrie Chapman Catt, the Iuternational Pre-
sident, then gave an eloquent opening ad-
dress, in which she asserted that suffrage for
women was sure to come within a few years.
She declared that the suffragists’ enemy was
not man, but conservatism.
					Woman’s Journal.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.
	Dr. Margaret C Robert’s Class in
obstetrics will commence on Monday,
October 12th, 1908. For further in-
formation communicate with Dr M.
C. Roberts 404 Temple on Bldg., Salt
Lake City, Phone 2002. 

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
