
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 37.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1908.							No. 1.


CONTENTS.
								PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions.............Emmeline B.Wells	1
Relief Society Conference in England.....	2
In Memoriam of Delila King Olsen.........	3
In Memoriam of Louie Shurtliff Smith....	3
Relief Society Nurse Classes...................	5
Suffrage Reunion at Seneca Falls............	6
Cannons as Colonizers.............................
	....................Ann Cannon Woodbury	6
In Memoriam............................................	7
Relief Society Stake Reports: San Juan—
	Granite—Emery—Uintah................	7
Editorial:—Important Notice...................	4
	A Word to the Relief Society............	4
	In Memoriam of Emily Wells Grant.	4
	Unique Gathering.............................	5
Poetry:—The Power of Sympathy...........
	...............................Richard Metcalf	1
	Faith.....................Caroline Renfrew	2


THE POWER OF SYMPATHY.

The look of sympathy, the gentle word,
Spoken so low that only angels heard;
The secret act of pure self-sacrifice,
Unseen by men, but marked by angels’ eyes—
			These are not lost.

The happy dreams that gladden all our youth,
When dreams had less of self and more of trnth;
The childhood’s faith, so tranquil and so sweet,
Which sat like Mary at the Master’s feet—
			These are not lost.

The kindly plan devised for others’ good,
So seldom guessed, so little understood;
The quiet steadfast love that strove to win
Some wanderer from the ways of sin—
			These are not lost.

Not lost, O Lord! for in Thy city bright,
Our eyes shall see the past by clearer light,
And things long hidden from our gaze below
Thou wilt reveal; and we shall surely know
			These are not lost.
					RICHARD METCALF.


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Among the many great heroines of the
Church in early days, one hardly knows
which to select as foremost to mention, but
certainly of the early Kirtland sisters, Sis-
ter Marinda N. Johnson Hyde should be
recognized as figuring conspicuously as a
historical character; and also upon her own
merits as a woman of superior intellect and
ability. And indeed she came of a family
of distinction and of good standing in the
community where they resided.
	Father and Mother Johnson, as they were
designated in the rise of the Church in Kirt-
land and vicinity, were people of means and
of influence and among the first to receive the
Gospel, two of the sons, brothers of Sister
Hyde, were chosen members of the first quo-
rum of the Twelve Apostles, Lyman and
Luke Johnson. Moreover one need not go
back to her antecedents in giving personal
impressions of this famous woman. Her
majestic appearance, stature and figure,
with perfect self-poise would be noticeable
in any company, in fact her tout ensemble,
would reveal at a glance, the characteristics
of one born to lead, and to manage affairs;

[Column 2]
she also had the faculty to accumulate
means, or property, so to speak, and to
carry on any business a woman might un-
dertake successfully.
	She was decidedly in the best sense a
home-maker and her housewifely manage-
ment was a delight and a luxury in itself.
She was a woman to lean upon, and to re-
pose confidence in; one who would never
betray a trust, in fact would go through fire
and water rather than reveal that which had
been entrusted to her as a sacred obligation.
	Sister Hyde was not only charitable to
the needy and unfortunate, but more than
that, she was philanthropic and magnani-
mous, possessing the best requisites for fill-
ing a position, that would not only require
great wisdom, but the keenest sense of true
justice, tempered with mercy. One of her
delightful attributes was her accurate appre-
ciation of talent, and of tenderness and af-
fection in those with whom she mingled;
and her mindfulness of their efforts to do
and to promote the welfare of their fellow-
workers, and of the society in which they
were associated for the betterment of all
concerned, and the people at large.
	Her courage under difficulties and in try-
ing circumstances was something superb;
and her cheerfulness in personal affliction
was sublime in its heroic endurance.
	We often speak of women as the South-
ern type or the Northern type, the Puritan
type and so on, but although Marinda John-
son was born in Vermont, one of the New
England States, yet I could not possibly
class her as the Puritan type, she often spoke
of herself as belonging to what is termed now-
a-days “the old school,” and she really had
an old fashioned dignity, correct manners
and lady-like deportment, which belonged
to the well bred people. She was what
might be summed up in the word used so
much in modern literature a “thoroughbred.”
I might say the type of woman of the Revo-
lution, sort of military in bearing and cer-
tainly a woman of prestige.
	Her whole life from early girlhood empha-
sized her innate reverence for sacred things
and principles. She was a speaker of un-
usual power and had a far-reaching and
penetrating voice; one too who could com-
prehend others without, much explanation,
could read character and motives well, and
was in the best sense broad-minded. In
calling her attention to a new movement or
plan of work, or action, she judged accur-
ately, but never narrowed any method of de-
velopment. Her ideas were intensely prac-
tical, she was not at all visionary, but well-
balanced on all general subjects, and able
to discuss grave questions. A woman like-
ly to be chosen to settle a point at issue
among those who differed, a good arbitra-
tor, one who was a firm believer in equal
rights for man and woman on all questions;
and one who had helped to colonize in new
countries, and had experienced the disad-
vantages women with young families have
had to encounter when their husbands are
absent on long missions abroad. Sister
Hyde had traveled quite extensively herself,
and had met with eminent and distinguished
people.

[Column 3]
	Among the many great women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints whom I have known person-
ally and revered, and for whom I cherish the
most profound love and esteem, and whose
names I would wish to see engraven on a
roll of honor, and whose virtues and heroic
example are worthy to be followed by the
women of today, I count Marinda Hyde
equal in excellence to those heretofore men-
tioned.
		A noble type of good
		Heroic womanhood.
	Marinda N. Johnson Hyde, born June 28,
1815, Pomfret, Windsor County, Vermont,
died Salt Lake City, Utah, March 24, 1886.

	As representaive women of the early days
the one just mentioned, Sister Hyde and
Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball are two
unique types; unlike yet very intimately as-
sociated in the days of Kirtland and ever
afterwards. Both were women of great force
of character and possessed of endurance, able
to cope with difficulties along life’s way.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball was the true
Yankee type came of Puritan ancestors, of
the earliest period in New England history.
She was tall and strait as an arrow in figure,
of “proper manners” and deportment of the
days in which she was born and reared, and
was so thoroughly imbued with the prudish
ideas of decorum of that early Puritanical
period, that any departure from it was re-
prehensible from her point of view.
	Withal she was very progressive along all
lines of intellectual growth and educational
attainments; she had been a woman of
means and had the advantages of what is
termed good society, as a young woman and
matron; and after her marriage had a beau-
tiful home of her own and pleasant sur-
roundings; she had exquisite taste in the
cultivation of flowers and artistic skill with
the pencil and brush which she used for her
own amusement and gratification, and for the
adornment of her home successfully.
	There was a sort of simple elegance about
Mrs. Hyrum Kimball (as she was called)
that entered into all her life work, and she
had a keen appreciation of the beauties of
scenery which made her a delightful travel-
ing companion. She had a good faculty for
teaching could simplify lessons and adapt
them to the understanding of those whom she
instructed. She possessed excellent power of
concentration, something quite unusual in
women, and she was well versed in the lite-
rature of the time, and the political ques-
tions that have agitated the minds of women
much during the nineteenth century period;
she was inclined to argument on points of
law and political economy, and was quite in-
dependent and decided in her views on the
woman question could express herself partic-
ularly well, and never hestitated in giving
her opinion upon equality of the sexes. In
fact she would rank as a leader in the wo-
man’s movement, and in many respects she
resembled the illustrious so called General,
Susan B. Anthony.
	Sister Kimball had largely developed exe-
cutive ability to accumulate property and
to take care of it to the best advantage.


[Column 1]
	She was a very good public speaker con-
cise in language and expression, used as few
words as possible to convey her meaning
and invariably handled her subjects well.
Her voice was rather incisive but she could
be heard well and understood where a more
fluent speaker might be misunderstood.
	Sister Kimball was original and indepen-
dent in her ideas; and in public measures
her plans were well-matured before she pre-
sented them, and therefore the more convinc-
ing; and she had a decidedly positive man-
ner that some might construe as aggresive.
	However Sister Kimball was a woman of
high ideals about spiritual matters and was
a deep religious thinker, and reasoner, and
a student of the Bible, Book of Mormon and
other Latter-day Saint books of a similar
kind; and the writings of Orson and Parley
P. Pratt and their Sermons she was particu-
larly fond of reading.
	Sister Kimball was methodical and prac
tical generally, but some of her writings on
philosophical and spiritual subjects were
rather extraordinary and although in speak-
ing she was clear and comprehensive, yet in
her writings she was abstruse and inclined
to be mystical, and yet she was so strong-
minded, and well-balanced that she would
never be the least likely to go beyond her
depth. She was really an advanced thinker
and fond of diving into the unknown, or
soaring upward to sublime heights. The
writer recalls one or two of her articles that
made quite a sensation at the time; upon
subjects with which women are now quite
conversant.
	Sister Kimball had the attributes of a re-
former along many lines, was at one time
quite an advocate of dress reform, something
very much needed in the present day.
	She was a woman one liked to talk with
even if one could not always coincide with
her views, and one was pretty sure to learn
something by conversation with her, even if
one was worsted in an argument, she was
certainly well worth listening to, and excel-
lent in debate.
	There was nothing common place about
Sister Kimball: like others of the sisters who
belonged to that period of the Church, she
had held converse wtth the greatest minds
of this dispensation, men who had been
favored of the Lord and taught of Him by
revelation and she had sat under their teach-
ing, and listened to their wise sayings, and
profited by their instruction; of these woman
who were familiar with the great Latter-day
Prophet, but few now remain only one or
two yet living, scarcely any in fact; they be-
longed to a period in the history of the
Church with which those women who are
foremost in our Church work today know
but very little.
	Sarah Kimball was exceptional in that
she had some traits of character unlike any
other woman of whom I have written, most-
ly undeveloped however; she was something
of a phrenologist, and a pretty good reader
of character, delicate in her nature, a little
cold in her manner, one does not care to
make comparisons, “they are said to be
odious” but there were some points of re-
semblance between Sister Eliza R. Snow and
Sarah M. Kimball.
	Sarah Melissa Granger married name
Kimball was born in Phelps, Ontario County,
New York, December 29, 1818, died in Salt
Lake City, Utah, December 1, 1898.

	In close fellowship with Marinda Hyde
and Sarah M. Kimball was another loyal
and devoted woman whose life-work for

[Column 2]
years was closely interwoven with the two
women whose names are mentioned here.
Sister Sarepta M. Blodgett Heywood, a
charming and brilliant women, lovable and
loyal, in all places and at all times, mother-
ly in the sweetest and dearest ways, she al-
ways had a smile for her friends, no matter
how her own heart might ache. She was
tender to the very fibres of her being. She
loved all living creatures, and was especially
kind and deferential to the aged, the help-
less and unfortunate. Her unbounded sym-
pathy for all sorrows whether through mis-
fortune or weakness or from whatever cause,
was something sublime in its expression and
effect. None appealed to her in vain; none
were ever turned away without some allevi-
ation.
	Her home was a delightful place of re-
pose and restfulness; she knew just what to
do for the comfort and entertainment of
guests whether her friends came singly or
in crowds, there was always the cordial wel-
come. Hospitality was one of her chief at-
tractions in the days when there were not
many bounties to dispense, and the Saints
were in need of substantial support to tide
over the time of scarcity. Sister Heywood
will always be remembered as one of those
who would divide the last morsel with a
friend, or any one in need, if to feed the
hungry and clothe the destitute is the sub-
limest charity, then she stands pre-eminent
in this regard. Her good deeds, her acts of
kindness and benevolence can never be
forgotten. Many will rise up and call her
blessed at the last day for the help extended
in the hour of great privation.
	Sister Heywood had received a liberal edu-
cation, graduating at last from a celebrated
institution of learning in Buffalo, New
York, and had been a great reader of good
books, and was a woman who always
dressed becomingly and in excellent taste;
she was graceful and attractive in manner
and possessed a fund of humor that seemed
always to bubble up at the right moment to
give zest and tone to common place conver-
sation or dulness that needed enlivening, she
was a woman of tact, which is said to be
better than talent.
	Sister Heywood was a most pleasing pub-
lic speaker, she had a sweet voice and her
intonation was perfect, she was gifted in
prayer, was of a religious and devotional na-
ture and one particularly well-adapted to the
dispensing wisely of means given for chari-
table purposes.
	In her own neighborhood and the local
Relief Society, where she was counselor to
Sister Marinda Hyde, the president from its
first organization (her husband was bishop
there) she was a prime favorite.
	One cannot recall her without thinking of
her beautiful eyes, that seemed to speak with-
out words, so full were they of soulfulness.
	Unlike most of the Latter-day Saints who
had been persecuted and driven from place
to place, the Heywood’s were people of
means and resources; this may have come
about because of Sister Heywood’s excellent
management of household affairs.
	Sarepta M. Blodgett, married name
Haywood, was born in Monroe, Ashtabula
Co., Ohio, November 22, 1822. Died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, November 23, 1886,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Ruth Bryan Leavitt, the daughter of
William Jennings Bryan, was chosen as de-
legate at large to the Colorado State Demo-
cratic Convention, which met at Glenwood


FAITH.
Hold fast to faith, thou shipwrecked one, hold
		fast.
	There is no other spar to cling to;
And thus upheld, thou’lt hear sweet melodies.
	’Tis thee the watching angels sing to.
And though that spar of faith appears to be
	A thing too frail for thy life’s danger,
Remember, it was faith that made for us
	That life, the sad world’s great Christ stranger.
Oh faith is mighty, and no life can reach
	Its golden island of fruition,
But by the barge of faith that straightway goes
	Swerveless on its divine commission.
Hold fast to faith, thou shipwrecked one, hold
		fast,
	And through the dark God’s searchlight gleam-
		ing
Will guide thee safely to the unknown shores
	That beckon through thy life’s long dreaming.
						CAROLINE RENFREW.
Colorado Springs.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ENGLAND.
	A Relief Society conference was held in
Westgate Hall, Bradford, May 16th, 1908.
The meeting commenced at 3:30 p. m. Sis-
ter Romania B. Penrose was in attendance.
	After the opening exercises, President Mary
Hollings gave a brief account of the work
done in Bradford.
	Second Counselor, Sister Walker, reported
the progress that is being made in Halifax.
	President Maria Wood spoke encouraging-
ly of the work in Clayton.
	The president of the Society in Keighley
also gave a good report.
	Sister Mary A. Knight expressed pleasure
in attending to her duties as a teacher.
	A recitation was given by Miss Florrie
Benn, entitled, “Alone in Heaven.”
	Sister Mary E. Sanders spoke of the bene-
fit derived from attending Relief Society
meetings.
	First Councelor Mary Higgins told what
satisfaction the Gospel gave her and expres-
sed a desire to keep the commandments of
the Lord.
	Sister Lilian Jeffries sang, “Love at
Home.”
	Second Counselor Nancy Thorpe bore tes-
timony to the divinity of “Mormonism.”
	Several of the sisters bore testimony to
the good work done by the Society.
	Sister Edith Crampton, who is emigrating
to Zion, testified of good received through
attending to her duties.
	Sister Romania B. Penrose gave a very
instructive and helpful address on the great
obligations we owe to our Father in heaven.
Urged the sisters to purify themselves and
not grieve the Spirit of the Lord. She also
pointed out that the Relief Society is to
educate the sisters intellectually, spiritually
and morally. Impressed upon all the ne-
cessity of working unitedly and of respecting
authority. Spoke of eternal associations
and man’s free agency, and made plain the
fact that our destinies lie largely in our own
hands. Gave valuable suggestions regarding
Relief Society work and the training of chil-
dren. Urged mothers to instil into their
daughters right principles in early years and
so fit them for the duties of life as wives
and mothers. If these teachings are put into
practice great benefit will be derived by each
Society represented. The work in the con-
ference is growing, and we are expecting to
hear of greater advances in the future.
				MARY E. SANDERS,
Millennial Star.				Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[Photograph with the caption “DELILA KING OLSEN.”]
IN MEMORIAM.
DELILA KING OLSEN.
	Delila King Olsen, the only daughter of Matilda
Robison and Thomas R. King was born July
tenth, eighteen hundred and forty-one at Sylvania
Lucas county, Ohio. At the time of her birth, her
parents and other near relatives were moving
from the State of New York, to Nauvoo, Illinois.
Her uncle, Joseph Robison was driving the
team. They halted, only a few hours after Deli-
la’s birth, and then continued their journey.
	They resided in Nanvoo at the time of the
martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his
brother Hyrum, and the persecution of the Saints
following that sad event, and went with the peo-
ple when they were driven out in the year 1846,
to Winter Quarters, living there that winter.
Then moved to the southern part of Iowa where
they remained for the succeding four years.
	In 1851 the King family crossed the plains to
Utah, moving directly to Fillmore, being among
the pioneers of that place. It was necessary for
them to build a fort to protect them from the
Indians. They lived in this fort for ten
years.
	As soon as the people began to accumulate a
little property, they felt the necessity of having
their children have a better education than could
be obtained in a small country village at that
time, so they sent Delila to Salt Lake City to
attend school, where she was a student in Profes-
sor Mouseley’s high school in the Sixteenth
Ward.
	In her fourteenth year she taught her first
school in Holden, in Millard Co.. David R. and
Edward Stevens, now prominent men of that
place, being among her pupils. She afterwards
taught school at Fillmore and Kanosh for sev-
eral years. The advancment along educational
lines, of her own family and the children in the
community in which she resided being one of her
greatest desires.
	Owing to her intelligence and attractiveness she
was always surrounded by friends and admirers.
Such was her influence among her associates that
if there was to be a party or sociable of any kind,
it must be of the best kind for Delila King was
going.
	She was an ideal daughter on whom her parents
looked with pride and admiration, and a lovable
sister.
	She was married at Fillmore, December 14.
1861, to Geo. Daniel Olson, one of the best viol-
nists of the territory at that time, also a cabinet
maker of the firm of Foster and Midgley of Salt
Lake City.
	They resided in Salt Lake City about two years
then moved to Fillmore where her husband fol-
lowed the cabinet maker’s trade. The two con-
tributed much to the social enjoyment of the com-
munity in which they lived. She had gained a
liberal education and spent a great part of her

[Column 2]
life as a teacher. Politically she was an ardent
Democrat and served two terms as Recorder of
Millard County from January 1, 1897 to January
1901.
	She was the mother of nine children, five boys
and four girls. One daughter died while quite
young, and her beautiful daughter Eva, grown to
womanhood and married to Alma Greenwood,
died at the birth of her first child. Her husband
died at Fillmore, May 8, 1893.
	With all her cares she devoted much of her
time and talents to Church work, being a charter
member of the first Relief Society organized in
Fillmore, May 7. 1868; and was chosen a teacher
at the first meeting.
	On January 25th, 1870, the ladies of Fllmore
held a mass meeting to express their indignation
in regard to the Cullom bill Delila was among
the number.
	July 26, 1870 at the organization of the Fillmore
Ward Relief Society, Caroline Collister was nomi-
nated president and Delila Olson first counselor.
While holding this position she assisted in emi-
grating the poor Saints from Europe by donating
of her means for that purpose. She advocated
assisting the children of the poor to obtain means
for an education by providing books, shoes, or
anything that it was possible for the society to do
for them. She continued in this position until the
dividing of the Fillmore Ward, October 28, 1877.
when she was chosen and set apart to be presi-
dent of the Second Ward Relief Society.
	The Relief Society of the Millard Stake of Zion
was organized January 18, 1879. Belinda M. Pratt
was chosen president and Delila Olson first coun-
selor and secretary. She was released from being
president of the Second Ward Fillmore Relief
Society on March 6th, 1879.
	As a competent president for the Stake
Primary Association was wanted at its organiza-
tion she was released from being counselor in the
Stake Relief Socfety in May, 1883, and chosen
president of the Stake Primary Association
which office she filled with credit until her re-
moval to Salt Lake City in November, 1902.
	She continued to hold the position of secretary
for the Stake Relief Society until November,
1902.
	She assisted in drafting resolutions for the first
Retrenchment Association organized in Fillmore
which was afterwards changed to “Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association and was Pres-
ident for many years. Was also president of the
Fillmore Ward Primary Association, from its or-
ganization August 10, 1880, until released with
honor October 26, 1882.—was a Sunday School
teacher all her life long.
	She was a kind and affectionate wife, a true
helpmeet, a loving and careful mother, trying at
all times to instil the principles of true man and
womanhood in the hearts of her children and
never ceasing in advocating the principles of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, both by precept and ex-
ample. A true friend, always speaking the best
of every one, and never allowing her lips to speak
evil of any one; never looking for faults, but find-
ing the true in those with whom she associated.
Her home was always open for every one to find
the welcoming hand of hospitality extended to
them. She descended from good old New Eng-
land ancestors, some of whom emigrated from
Holland, and some from England, with the object
of finding a place where they could have freedom
of conscience. They were among those who
fought for American independence. Delila was
staunch, true and patriotic, a sincere disciple
of Susan B. Anthony an ardent suffragist.
	She died January 5, 1907, and her remains were
interred in the cemetery at Fillmore by the side
of her husband, Daniel Olsen. At the funeral
services the speakers were Judge Joshua Green-
wood, Judge William A. King, a nephew of the
deceased, Elder John V. Robison, a cousin, and
President Thomas C. Callister. Resolutions of
love and esteem by the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I.
Association and the Primary Association, with all
of which she had been officially connected, were
read. The services were attended by all of her
loving children and several grandchildren.
	The remarks of the speakers were full of praise,
love and esteem for her noble character.
	Sister Olsen is survived by the following chil-
dren: Geo. D., of Fillmore; Edward T., of Chic-
ago; Frank A., merchant of Price, Utah; Cul-
bert L., a Salt Lake attorney. Emmett, a mining
engineer of Salt Lake City; Miss Ethel Olsen and
Mrs. George M. Hanson, whose husband is private
secretary to Senator George Sutherland. Also
three brothers, Culbert and Edwin King, of Cir-
cle valley, and Volney King of Cowley, Wyoming,
and hosts of other relatives and friends.
					ISABELLA F. ROBISON.


IN MEMORIAM.
	It is with feelings of profound sorrow and
grief that we, the officers and members of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, express our heartfelt sympathy and
extend words of condolence to those whom
we love, honor and revere; those who, in the
decree of an all-wise Father, have been cal-
led upon to part, for a brief season with one
most truly beloved.
	Sister Louie Shurtliff Smith was one in
whom shone all the virtues known to hum-
anity. Queen-like, regal in her mien, yet
withal so gentle, just and kind; her innate
beauty showed the exquisite touches of the
Master’s hand. She was as the sunbeam
breaking through the clouds. Her pure,
chaste life was ever an inspiration.
	As a daughter she was all that the name
implies, all that a daughter could be. As a
sister, loving, beloved and revered. A wife,
the helpmeet, companion and counselor of
her husband. A mother, tender, true, wise,
ideal.
	To parents, brothers, husband and little
ones we feel to say: Whereas our Father, in
His wisdom and love, has called her noble
spirit home to labor in a more exalted
sphere, may you be able to bow in humble
submission to His divine will. And we
earnestly pray that on each aching heart
may be poured a healing balm, even the
comforting influence of the Holy Spirit, that
you may even now see the silver lining to
the cloud which overshadows you and be
able to say “The Lord gave and the Lord
hath taken away; blessed be the name of the
Lord.”
O loved ones, with thy bruised and bleeding
	hearts,
Could’st thou have seen the messenger, who came
In shining robes, direct from Father’s throne,
Had’st heard the thrilling voice call Louie’s
	name,
Thou wouldst have said, if thou hadst under-
	stood,
“It is the Lord, do Thou as seemeth good.”
But veiled by dense mortality, thine eyes
Beheld not, through the bitter, blinding tears;
The same dense clay permitted not the sound
Of angel voice to penetrate thine ears;
Not tear nor sob prevented: laws abound
That man must walk by faith, not sight nor
	sound.
And so the angel came unseen, unheard
By all save thy dear one, whom he didst guide
Across the shadowy river, to the throne
Where harp and crown await on yonder side;
She saw, heard and recalled her former home
And smiling, vhispered faintly “Lord I come.”
We mourn, we weep with thee in thy deep loss;
We know the grieving heart yearns for its own;
Know that the aching void can ne’er be filled,
Save by our Heavenly Father, He alone
Can soothe thy grief, speak peace unto thy soul,
Can heal thy wounds and make thee truly whole.
And so we pray that strength be given thee,
That heavenly dews may on thy souls descend,
That through the cloud, blue sky may yet be
	seen,
Instead of song, may psalm thy lips attend;
When rightly tempered, both by heat and wave.
Thou’lt meet again thine own beyond the grave.
						NELLIE BECROFT.
	In behalf of the officers and members of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion.


Dr. Romania B. Penrose Delegate from
Utah appointed by the Governor delivered
an address at the International Woman’s
Suffrage Alliance Congress held in Amster-
dam, Holland, June 16, 1908. The address
will be published in full in our next number.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	JUNE, 1908.


IMPORTANT NOTICE.
	The Presiding Bishopric of the Church
have called upon the General Relief Society
to use its influence in securing a few more
pupil students of the L. D. S. College to
take the two years’ nurse course at the Dr.
W. H Groves Latter-day Saints Hospital.
	The Hospital has a training school for
nurses, and efforts are being made to affili-
ate this training school with the General
Church School System. A course of train-
ing is given at said Hospital covering a per-
iod of three years, and efforts are being
made to reduce it to two years in the near
future. The sehool year commences Sep-
tember 1st, 1908, and there is still eight
more pupil nurses needed to make the re-
quired number.
	The Relief Society desires to give this re-
quest publicity through the columns of the
Woman’s Exponent and letters will be sent
giving fuller particulars to Presidents of
Stakes, that they may understand the situ-
ation more in detail.
	This Hospital training will not in any way
interfere with the Relief Society nurse class
taught under the auspices of the General
Relief Society by Dr. M. C. Roberts, which
will commence later in September as adver-
tised in this nnmber of the paper, and is
especially in the interest of charity as its
first object.
	More concerning this subject will be pub-
lished in the next issue of the paper.


[Column 1]
A WORD TO THE RELIEF SOCIETR.
	In the month of Jnne, 1872, this little
paper first made its appearance, and Presi-
dent Brigham Young anticipated the sisters
subscribing liberally and making it a great
enterprise in the interests of the women of
Zion not only in Utah, but wherever the
Saints were located. He wished the sisters
to have a knowledge of affairs in general at
home and elsewhere, to know, too, what
other women were doing in the way of high-
er education and advancement and to keep
abreast of the times.
	The sisters were urged through the meet-
ings held at that period of time, to

[Column 2]
write for the paper and to improve them-
selves in composition and literary merit, and
make genuine history that would be a record
of woman’s work.
	President Young at one time in conversa-
tion with the editor suggested that the lives
of prominent women in the Church, those
who had associated in the early days in
active measures for the benefit and es-
tablishment of Mormonism, or actual labor
in colonizing, or in a religious or moral
sense, to promote the interests of the build-
ing up of Zion, should be written up that a
history or true record might be made of value
to posterity.
	Considerable of this biographical work
has been done, but in many instances, our
young people who have so much and read so
much, fancy lighter reading than histories of
women’s lives with whose names they are
more or less familiar. Therefore, more
recently the editor has undertaken to write
in a dignified manner, so to speak, her own
impressions of such women, who helped to
lay the foundation of this work in connec-
tion with the great leaders among distin-
guished men of their own time.
	Women who have opened the way in
many lines for the younger generation of
the present period. They really do not
know what they owe to those women whose
names are household words in Zion.
	It is earnestly desired that the sisters in
all the wards should take a more active in-
terest in getting subscriptions for the
Woman’s Exponent, and sustaining it as a
means of spreading knowledge, not only of
the work of the Relief Society itself which is
the greatest organization of women in the
Church, (and we think even in the world)
but because this society carries the light of
the Gospel along with its teaching into every
home of its members.
	It was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith before any of the women’s societies
or associations in the outside world, and can
any Latter-day Saint doubt its being through
revelation? Such a great society must have
an organ to keep up with its development,
and it should be sustained by its members,
so that there need be no delays in its regu-
lar publication. Printing is not done with-
out money, although writers, poets, etc.,
may go hungry, machinery does not run
itself.
	The sisters in all parts of the world are
benefitted by the Woman’s Exponent; it is
the actual agent of the society, keeping be-
fore the society the importance of the or-
ganization and its methods of work, and the
success attending the efforts made in all the
various localities. It may be prosy, but so
is all useful work, but the results are what
is looked for. There might be books upon
books issued, but they would not keep pace
with the growth of a society as a journal
does. It is not for the sake of stories or
poems though they embellish and help over
dry reading, it is for the actual progress
being made that a paper is most needed. In
view of these facts and many more that
might be stated, the Exponent asks for a
more liberal patronage, and a larger circula-
tion in the Relief Society which it repre-
sents.


Mrs. Taft devotes part of every day to the
study of languages. Spanish and French
are her favorites. Few mistresses of the
White House have been familiar with the
continental tongues, and still fewer with
Spanish, the language of South America.


IN MEMORIAM.
		EMILY WELLS GRANT.
“Death is the crown of life!”
	The Latter-day Saints believe death opens
the portal to eternal life, and yet we mourn
for those who go out into the unknown,
while we believe they are welcomed on the
other side, as we welcome and rejoice when
an immortal soul is born into this world,
where we know there is trial and sorrow,
awaiting all who come.
	It is in our nature to mourn for our loved
ones when the parting comes, yet we do and
must acknowledge the hand of the Lord,
even when the nearest and dearest are taken.
	“What shall we add now? She is dead”
Death seems to close our lips at first, and
we can only exclaim, all is over she is gone;
it is useless our doing, our grief, our tears,
they avail naught, yet we weep, we sigh, we
mourn, it seems to give relief to our agon-
zed hearts, although we realize our weeping
is in vain. We cannot bring them back, we
would not, if we could.
	Our beloved Emily has gone where there
is—
	No more weeping, no more sighing,
		No more agonizing fears
	And no requiem for the dying
		Chanted ’mid-the falling tears.

	Angel escorts bearing banners
		Every entrance watch to see
	One who cometh with hosannas
		Marching on to victory!
	If we could look within the pearly gates,
that open to the heavenly mansions, we
would be humiliated with our own weak-
ness, but we are so intensely human, and
those are taken whom we fain would keep,
and we cannot help exclaiming,what avails,
now she is dead:
	Sweet Emily, how brave she was during
her long and tedious illness, patient and
tender always, trying to bear her affliction
with the fortitude of a saint of God. How
fondly her relatives and friends sought to
exercise faith for her recovery, hoping against
hope for weeks and months, praying earnest-
ly to the Lord to spare her for the dear chil-
drens’ sake.
	Sister Grant had every thing to live for, a
noble and kind husband who seemed to
anticipate her every wish, beautiful daught-
ers, brothers and sisters who almost idolized
her, and hosts of friends, who were devotedly
attached to her, for she had such charming,
attractive qualities, and withal a fine sense
of humor, and could use it tactfully to the
admiration of those whom she cared to please;
she was a great favorite in her girlhood among
the crowd of young people, school-fellows and
campanions; she never lacked for attention
here or there, wherever she went, winning in
her manner and a graceful dancer; she had
many accomplishments as well as home
adornments.
	The few years she passed abroad where
her husband, Apostle Heber J. Grant, pre-
sided over the European mission, gave her
the opportunity to see the world and to be-
come acquainted with many Latter-day
Saints, at the headquarters in Liverpool,
and those going upon missions and return-
ing; and she had the faculty of endearing
herself to them all, and invariably they
spoke of Sister Grant with sincere affection
and high regard. Those few years brighten-
ed her life greatly, and when after returning
to this city and meeting again her blessed
mother, and the dear ones here, she became


[Column 1]
settled in her hew home, which she had plan-
ned to suit herself and among her dearest
friends, it seemed as if her life might flow on
like a happy dream.
	But alas for human expectations, she was
not permitted long to enjoy the rich bles-
sings of home and mother, husband and
children. Everything that could be done
for her ease and gratification was thought of
and no expense was spared, loving hands
ministered to her, and those about her were
thoughtful of every act and attention. And
yet she could not stay with those who held
her in the strongest bonds of affection.
Therefore we must say “He doeth all things
well,” knowing it was the Father’s will.
The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
Because we miss them from our onward way,
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all and loving them the most
Straightway relieved them from life’s weary load.
They are not lost, they are within the door
That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore
And God Himself their Lord, and Judge, and King.
	Sad was the parting here, yet Sister Grant
has many dear ones there, and the welcome
will be beyond what words can express; her
only boy Daniel, her beautiful Sister Dessie,
her mother, father, and others loved and
cherished, relatives and friends, and an in-
numerable company of saints and angels
welcomed her to “the golden shore.”
	Emily Wells Grant was the daughter of
President Daniel H. Wells and his wife
Martha G. Wells (recently deceased) and
was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 22,
1857: she grew to womanhood in an environ-
ment of love and happiness, she had the
very best educational advantages, the Utah
schools and University afforded. She was
married to Elder Heber J. Grant in 1884—
and was the mother of five children Dessie,
and Grace, both now in early womanhood,
and Daniel (deceased) Emily and Frances still
young in years. Sister Grant was a loving
and tender mother and a charming woman
in all the delicate relations of domestic life.
	Sister Grant passed peacefully away after
a painfully tedious illness under which she
bore up heroically on Monday, May 25, at
3:15 p.m. surrounded by her immediate fam-
ily, her mother’s sister Emily Bullock was
also present, and must have been a great
stay and comfort to the family, who had so
recently parted with the mother, Sister Mar-
tha Wells only a few days previous.
	The funeral was held at the home on
Wednesday May 27, at 2 p. m. Bishop T.
A. Clawson presiding at the services. The
opening prayer was offered by President
Anthon H. Lund, and was eloquent with
feeling and consolation to the bereaved.
Elder O. F. Whitney, a life-long friend paid
a glowing tribute to her life and memory.
Elder Rudger Clawson followed him allud-
ing to their long acquaintance and pleasant
association, her praiseworthy life and the
faithful record she had made. The music
was furnished by the Pyper, Whitney, Spen-
cer and Ensign quartet accompanied by
Prof. Arthur Shepherd and was sweet and
soothing, the first hymn was “Thou dost not
weep to weep alone.” then “O my Father”
rendered by Horace Ensign, Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee’s hymn “Resting now from
care and sorrow” sung as a solo by Elder
George D. Pyper and the anthem “Not Dead
But Sleepeth,” closed: the closing prayer
was offered by Elder Richard W. Young.

[Column 2]
	Sister Grant was literally buried in flowers
of the most delicate fragrance, in fact the
casket was covered and the room filled in
every nook and corner, the sweetest perfume
of flowers everywhere, the gifts of her many
dear friends, and what can be more emble-
matic of purity and loveliness.
	“Flowers preach to us if we will hear.”
	The pall bearers were six of her brothers:
Rulon S. Wells, Louis R. Wells, Gershom
B. Wells, Melvin D. Wells, Charles H. Wells
and Victor P. Wells.
	The grave was dedicated by Elder Joseph
Hyrum Grant and the beautiful hymn “Rest
on the hillside, rest” was softly and sweetly
sung by the quartet, the casket was lowered
into the grave lined with the sweetest flowers
of May.
	Farewell a word so tender, so sad, for
those who stay but
		“They who go
	Feel not the pain of parting; it is they
	Who stay behind that suffer.”
		“Fare thee well;
	The elements be kind to thee and make
	Thy spirits all of comfort.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
UNIQUE GATHERING.
	At the Forestdale Amusement Hall, just
south of this city, on Tuesday afternoon,
July 9, 1908, there were assembled between
two and three hundred of the Free family to
celebrate the 79th birthday of Sister Hannah
C. Free Wells, (wife of President Daniel H.
Wells) and daughter of the late Absalom P.
Free, a veteran in the Church from the early
days, and a man well known in Utah, whose
descendants have now become very numer-
ous, the gathering was to perpetuate his
memory among his posterity.
	The reception began at 2 p. m. and the
banquet was scheduled at 4 p. m. The
large and commodious banqueting hall was
beautifully decorated, and there were roses
and other fragrant flowers in all available
places, and upon the tables, that were liter-
ally loaded with appetizing viands in great
variety. The hospitality of the Free family
has always been proverbial from the early
days in the valley, and is doubtless a part
of the Southern life and inheritance. Sister
Betsy Strait Free, wife of Absalom Free, was
a most hospitable Southern woman, born in
Kentucky.
	There were five tables filled with the de-
scendants of the Free families, and it was a
wonderful sight to behold, the scene was
quite a remarkable one to look upon. There
were white haired men and women, and
younger married people with families, and
fine young men and fair maidens and chil-
dren of all ages and sizes down to tiny
babies.
	Free's, Young's, Wells's, Smith's and
other names of married children and grand-
children too numerous to mention. Among
them are many sweet singers and talented
musicians, and also dramatic ability, so
that the program of exercises needed no out-
side help. There was dancing late in the
evening, and altogether the party was a com-
plete success all around.
	The real guest of honor was Sister Hannah
C. Wells, whose birthday occurred on that
day, which had been chosen for the gather-
ing of the "Free clan." She was the recipi-
ent of several beautif[-]l gifts and of many
hearty congratulations and good wishes,
among the gifts was a very large birthday
cake handsomely decorated and her name
and age upon it, made and presented by her

[Column 2]
niece, Talitha Henry. There were seeming-
ly no regrets except the absence of Junius F.
Wells, or anything else to mar the delightful
feeling and unity, that was very apparent to
all present.
	The Free family history is very interest-
ing, although it does not date back very far.
The first known being Grandfather Andrew
Free, an only child born in North Carolina
about the year 1775, he married Mary Pen-
nington, and they were the parents of Absa-
lom Pennington Free who was born in North
Carolina on the eastern slope of the Cum-
berland Mountains. The family, consisting
of eleven children, emigrated to the
wilderness of the far west, the prairies of
Illinois, about the year 1814, and they trav-
eled through a land of hostile Indians, real
pioneers, and were among the first to get
farms in the fertile valley of the Mississippi,
in St. Clair County where they located and
obtained [-]ine farms along the Kaw river;
they became well-to-do farmers.
	The father, Andrew Free, heard the Gos-
pel and was baptized by Simeon Carter, also
his wife and nearly all his family. He af-
terwards moved to Missouri and located at
Far West, in Caldwell County, in 1836.
	While living there Andrew Free met
Joseph Smith the Prophet whom he had not
seen before, and the Prophet came up to
him, shook hands with him, looked him in
the face and said, "Brother Free, you are a
real "Ephramite," and one can believe it
by his numerous posterity.
	The family remained in Missouri until the
expulsion from that state in 1838, and then
returned to Illinois, remaining there until
1845, when they went to Nauvoo, leaving in
the exodus with the body of the Church.
"The Frees" are a very affectionate family
and loyal to each other, and to the Church
of which they are members.
	The reunion was a perfect success and
will promote love and harmony among the
younger generations, as well as a knowledge
of their progenitors, and be helpful in the
work for the dead; which Patriarch Absalom
P. Free greatly desired.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASSES.
SALT LAKE CITY, March 14, 1908.
	The Presidency and the General Board of
the Relief Society announce that the next
Relief Society Nurse Class taught under
their direction will commence Monday, Sep-
tember 21, 1908, in Salt Lake City. Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts will be the Instructor.
It is requested that the Stake Presidents
will at once consult with their Ward Presi-
dents for the purpose of selecting intelligent,
bright, and energetic young women, of good
moral character, to take this course in nurse
training.
	In recommending this course in nursing
given through the Relief Society, it should
be remembered that the students graduated
will have the privilege of paying for their
tuition with their work among the poor, and
will be gaining a practical experience that
will be of benefit to them throughout their
professional career.
	The tuition for the course in nursing will
be $10, and it is expected that the Relief
Society organization in each Ward will pay
the $10 tuition fee for its representative,
although any student who wishes to pay the
tuition herself may do so, if willing to ac-
cept the Relief Society Nurse contract, a
copy of which follows:


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONTRACT.
	In consideration of obtaining instruction
at a reduced price in the General Relief So-
ciety Nurse class taught by Dr. Margaret C.
Roberts, I pledge to hold myself in readi-
ness to answer all calls made upon me by
the General Superintendent of Relief Society
Nurses, or the President of the Stake to
which I belong, to nurse for Charity for fifty
days, and in addition for whatever pay shall
be designated by my Superintendent for the
term of two years after date of graduation,
and I shall not be exempt from this duty
unless through personal sickness.
	And I also agree not to accept any case
of nursing on my own account, during the
said two years, without previously consult-
ing my Superintendent.
			(Signed.)............................
	It is our desire that Superintendents of
Stakes and Ward Presidents will be energe-
tic in presenting this matter to the class of
young women who would be desirable stu-
dents, as we are in great need of more train-
ed nurses for the people. It is important
that students, as far as possible, commence
with the class at its beginning, on the 21st
of September next. For further particulars
write to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 North
West Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.
	EMMA A. EMPEY,
			Gen. Sup. of R. S. Nurse Work.
	PHEBE Y. BEATIE, Secretary.


[Column 1]
SUFFRAGE REUNION AT SENECA FALLS.
	Standing out bold and clear among the
many great events that marked the phenom-
enal progress of humanity the world over
during the nineteenth century is one, the
60th anniversary of which was celebrated in
Seneca Falls, New York, May 26th, 27th,
and 28th of this year. In that city in July
1848, was held the first organized meeting
ever held by women in the world’s history,
to demand equal participation in the fram-
ing of laws and all other matters concern-
ing the welfare of the people. The meeting
was called by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and
Lucretia Mott, and was attended by many
prominent men and women from different
parts of the country, among them the great
orator and statesman, Frederick Douglas.
	The resolution passed at that meeting was
the clarion cry that, before the century had
closed, was to ring in every civilized coun-
try in the world, rousing women from their
lethargy of the ages; awakening to the gross
injustice of their position in the world; of
the extreme cruelty of many of the laws
enacted concerning them, particularly those
which related to property and other rights.
	That the women of the world are aroused
to the importance of securing their just
rights is evidenced by the battle they are so
strenuously waging in the United States,
England, conservative Germany, France and
the Latin nations. Even in Turkey, India,
China and Japan they have taken up the
agitation. In Finland, New Zealand, Aus-
tralia, and in several of our own states they
have already secured full rights to the elect-
ive franchise.
	The exercises at Seneca Falls was attend-
ed by thousands of men and women coming
from different parts of the country; and a
number from Europe. The principal event

[Column 2]
of the exercises was the unveiling on Wed-
nesday afternoon of a large Bronze Tablet,
commemorating the first meeting. The tab-
let was placed on the outer wall of the
church building that now occupies the
ground where stood the old Wesleyan Chap-
el where the meeting was held in 1848.
	On one side of the tablet, modeled in ex-
quisite relief, stands a graceful, earnest and
intelligent looking woman, dressed in the
fashion in vogue at that period. Her right
arm hangs restfully at the side, the hand
holding the paper on which was written the
call for the meeting. The left arm is ex-
tended and the hand holds a wreath over a
smaller tablet on which is inscribed the fol-
lowing:
	“On this spot stood Wesleyan Chapel,
where the first Woman’s Rights Convention
in the world’s history was held, July 19th
and 20th, 1848. At that meeting Elizabeth
Cady Stanton moved the following resolu-
tion, which was seconded by Frederick
Douglas; “Resolved, that it is the duty of
the women of this country to secure to
themselves the sacred right to the elective
franchise.”
	The tablet is considered by many critics
to be the finest that has been made in this
country in a long time, resembling in many
ways the work of the late gifted Saint Gaud-
ens. It was modeled by Elizabeth St. John
Matthews, the sculptor, of New York City.
	Mrs. Matthews was the woman member
of the International Jury of Awards on
Sculpture at the St. Louis Exposition,and is
the first and only woman to be given this
honor in any country. She has done many
notable works of art, some of which have
given her an international reputation. Her
busts of Presidents Lincoln, McKinley and
Roosevelt, Chaplain McCabe, and Cardinal
Gibbons and the bas-reliefs of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and Lucretia Mott, Francis
Willard, Susan B, Anthony (the latter taken
from sittings given by Miss Anthony) and
Mrs. Croly, (Jennie June) the founder of
women’s clubs, have received high praise.
								Ex.


Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of Brigham City, Utah,
was the only woman delegate in the National
Republican Convention. She was first elect-
ed as an alternate, but one of the delegates
was not able to go to Chicago, and the Utah
delegation chose her to fill his place. She
now wears the gold badge of a regular dele-
gate. Mrs. Clark is the daughter of one of
the pioneer settlers. She was born in Far-
mington, Utah, in 1850. While still a young
woman she began to take part in public af-
fairs. For a long time she has been active
in politics, and she was at one time vice-
president of the State Equal Suffrage Asso-
ciation. She ran for the State Senate in
1896, but was beaten by a Democratic land-
slide. Mrs. Clark says Roosevelt is her first
choice for the next president, Taft her se-
cond. She believes in equal suffrage, and
says it works well. She is the mother of
eleven children, and brought the photographs
of eight of them to the convention. Being
asked her profession (she is now a gray-
haired woman), she anwered, “I have been
a mother.”
Woman’s Journal.
	June 20, 1908.
	Lady Henry Somerset calls attention to
the fact that 2,584 different petitions for
woman suffrage have been sent to the British
Parliament.


CANNONS AS COLONIZERS.
		Ann Cannon Woodbury.

	I have been invited to say something in
regard to the record our family has made as
colonizers, but would like to refer first to
our early experience in the Gospel.
	My parents were believers in the Bible
and fairly well versed in its teachings but
not members of any sect. My father saw
the inconsistency of the various creeds he
had come in contact with, and had con-
founded many of those advocating or pro-
fessing a belief therein by comparisons and
arguments from the Bible. When Apostle
John Taylor landed in England as a mis-
sionary in the spring of 1840 he called to
see my father because he was a brother-in-
law, though they had never met. Not find-
ing my father at home, he left, promising to
call the next day. He had scarcely got
beyond hearing distance when my mother
remarked to George Q. “That is a man of
God.” She was more spiritually minded
than my father, and was thus early impres-
sed in favor of the missionary and his mes-
sage. On calling the next day Elder Taylor
explained the Gospel and found the family
interested and eager listeners. Most of us
were convinced of its truth from that day.
My father, however, put “Mormonism” to
the same test he had other creeds, with lit-
tle doubt at first that he could prove it
equally faulty. To his surprise, he soon
found that the missionary and his creed
stood the test. He spent several days read-
ing the Book of Mormon, at first with the
hope of disproving its claims, but at its con-
clusion remarked that "A bad man could
not have written it, and a good man would
not have dared to, if he had not been inspir-
ed of the Lord.”
	The family embraced the Gospel, and
soon began to feel a desire to migrate to
America. Mother was impressed from the
first that she would not live to cross the sea,
but did not waver in her determination to
go on that account. She felt that for the
children’s welfare and development they
should be with the body of the Church, and
with true martyr spirit she was willing to
sacrifice even her life to accomplish that
end. My father favored sailing to New
York, that being the shorter voyage, and for
the additional reason mother had a brother
and two sisters living there. Mother, how-
ever, opposed it, claiming that her relatives,
not believing as they did, would only be a
hindrance instead of a help to the children
when left without her to watch over them—
indeed, might prevent them from going any
farther and influence them against the Gos-
pel. So the longer voyage—to New Orleans
instead of to New York was decided upon.
	We sailed from Liverpool in September,
1842, and mother became sick the next day.
Her suffering was pathetic and her patience
and resignation remarkable. She never once
regretted having started,and though her love
for her children and anxiety for their future
led her occasionally to express the wish that
she could live to care for them, it is doubt-
ful if she ever for a moment believed that
she would. She lingered for six weeks and
was then buried in the sea. Oh the gloom
of that occasion! No words can fully de-
scribe the sorrow of the motherless children
and father! Our hopes in the Gospel alone
supported us. In time the voyage, which
in our anxiety had seemed so interminable,
came to an end. At last we halted tempo-
rarily at New Orleans. Then followed a


[Column 1]
tedious and very trying voyage by boat up
the river in the hope of reaching Nauvoo.
The river was low, the boat poor and heavi-
ly loaded. It stranded on a sand bar and
we were detained for two weeks in the woods
near Chester, and only succeeded in getting
as far as St. Louis before the river froze
over. We had to remain there all winter.
We reached Nauvoo in the spring of 1843.
Before we landed the Prophet came on
board the boat and shook hands with all the
passengers. We were also greeted with a
hearty welcome from Aunt Leonora Taylor.
	Father bought a home in Nauvoo and did
his best to care for his motherless children
while pursuing his trade to provide for them.
We learned to know by sad experience what
is home without a mother. The following
year, possibly impelled by anxiety for his
children, father married again, and going to
St. Louis a few months later to obtain more
profitable employement, died there very
suddenly. Thus the children were left com-
plete orphans at a time when the Church
was overwhelmed with trouble. The Prophet
and Patriarch had been cruelly martyred
and our Uncle John Taylor who was with
them at the time, and who, wounded almost
unto death, had been brought home from
Carthage by my father and others, was still
suffering from the effect of his wounds. The
persecutors of the Saints were still indulging
in threats, and a feeling of unrest prevailed
more or less among the Saints, portending
the troubles yet to come that resulted in
their general exodus from Illinois. This was
the condition of affairs in Nauvoo when we
were bereft of our father. Words can scarce-
ly express how utterly helpless and forlorn
our prospects as six orphan children—the
eldest not eighteen and the youngest not yet
four—then seemed to be. The Lord, how-
ever, did not desert us. He gave us hope
in the triumph of His cause and faith and
courage to remain true to it even at a time
when so many weakened and abandoned it.
George and I found a home with our aunt,
and Mary Alice, though scarcely more than
a child herself, soon married and provided
a home for the other three. We were scat-
tered then, but destined soon to be more so.
	Our experience as colonizers commenced
in a small way in Illinois, was soon to be
more extended. George and I were among
the early emigrants that followed the band
of pioneers, into Salt Lake Valley, in 1847
and after we had endured two years of hard-
ship and privation therein we were joined by
the rest of the family.
	We were all active in colonizing Salt Lake
Valley, and as time passed, under the direc-
tion of the Chnrch authorities (for it has
generally been in response to calls from them
that we have branched out) the members of
our family have figured conspicuously in
colonizing other places. Angus was among
the first settlers of Iron County, and he and
David and Leonora and I were among the
first colonizers of St. George. Leonora later
on helped to establish a settlement in Pine
Valley. Our Sister Elizabeth was among the
pioneers of Bear Lake Valley, where she
still resides. My daughter Anne M. was
among the colonizers of Juarez, in Mexico,
where she still lives. My son Angus has
figured (and still does) as one of the colo-
nizers of Big Horn, Wyoming. Mary Alice’s
daughter Leonora and her family occupy a
similar position in Teton Valley, Idaho.
Leonora’s sons George, David and Angus are
among the colonizers of White River, Neva-
da. David’s sons Lewis and Eugene are
helping to establish a colony at Fielding

[Column 2]
in Northern Utah, and several of the family
have figured more or less in Canada.
	This record alone of service as colonizers,
involving hardships and sacrifices untold,
would be a very great one indeed consider-
ing the very unpromising conditions that
surrounded the family in their youthful
days, as already related. This, however,
is not all, for no mention has been made of
the scores of thousands of miles mainly by
team, that have been traveled by different
members of the family, in locating others,
or encouraging others to establish colonies,
make comfortable homes and to organize
them for more effective work as members of
the Church.
	In conclusion I will say I have no regret
for the strenuous lives that have resulted
from our enlistment as a family in the Mas-
ter’s service, no regrets for the sacrifices
made, or hardships endured. While glad
that we have done so much, I wish it were
more. The cause is worthy of all that we
have done, and a thousand times more.
What the Lord has done for us as a family
can never be fully repaid, though we and our
children after us devote our whole lives to
his service. God grant that all mny ever
have the disposition to do so.
					St. George, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sarah
J. Williams Watson, wife of Hugh Watson, who
departed this life on the 9th of April, 1908, after
lingering for three months after a serious opera-
tion for cancer, January 8, 1908. She bore her
sufferings with much fortitude and calmness, and
we feel that she was greatly deserving the rest,
she has obtained.
	And we, the officers and members of the Sixth
Ward Relief Society, feel that in her passing away
we have lost an earnest and faithful worker in the
Relief Society cause, a firm and valued friend,
and be it
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her
family in their deep bereavement and sorrow in
the loss of a loving and devoted wife and mother,
and we earnestly pray that the sweet and consol-
ing influence of the Holy Spirit may descend upon
them, to heal up the broken hearts and help them
to realize that He who rules the destinies of all,
doeth all things well; that although they are de-
prived of her sweet and loving presence for a
short time, yet will they be united again “some
sweet day,” if they are true and faithful to her
memory.
	Resolved, That we sincerely mourn her depar-
ture from us, but appreciate her past faithful
labors, and know that she has gone to receive
the reward for labor well performed. She held
the position of teacher for a number of years in
the Sixth Ward Relief Society, which duty she
performed in an energetic and exemplary manner
and for the past two years acted as stake mission-
ary of Pioneer Stake, and won the love and re-
spect of all those whom she associated with in
that capacity.
	Resolved that we place these resolu-
tions on our records, present a copy to the fam-
ily, and also send one to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
			Ellen R. Watson, President.
			Alice Butterworth,
			Margaret Leatham, Counselors.
			Esther H. Watson, Secretary.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Eliza Bezzant, who died on the 31st, of March,
1908. Her death was calm and peaceful, falling
to sleep as a tired child.
	Sister Bezzant joined the Church in her native
country, and her kindness and devotion to the
Elders, while she remained there was never fail-
ing. Since coming here, her life has been spent
in doing good and helping to roll forth the great
work that she commenced in the old country, and
that she has been successful, all those who knew
her can amply testify.
	And we, the officers and members of the Sixth
Ward Relief Society, although we shall miss her
kindly presence, do not feel to mourn for her as
those who have no hope, for we know that she

[Column 2]
has lived to a good old age, that she has been
faithful and true, and that if we also are faithful
we shall meet and associate with her again.
	Resolved that we appreciate her past labors
among us, as a teacher many years, and at the
time of her demise and for many years previous,
held the position of district teacher which posi-
tion she filled with dignity and honor; and
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her family
and friends in the loss of a dear, devoted mother
and friend; and
	Resolved, That these resolutions be kept
on record, also sent to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
				Ellen R. Watson,
							President.
				Alice Butterworth,
				Margaret Leatham,
							Counselors.
				Esther H. Watson,
							Secretary.

	Sister Mary Ellen Smith was called from our
midst January the 10th, 1908, and was buried
January 13th. this being the 27th anniversary of
her married life. She was a faithful worker in
the Relief Society of Thatcher Idaho, being secre-
tary for many years. She also taught a class in
Sunday School for about sixteen years. She was
also president of the Primary some years, which
position she had t o resign on account of her
health failing. She was the wife of Brother Geo.
M. Smith, and daughter of Bishop Edwin D. and
Ellen W. Woolley. She was born in Salt Lake
City, Utah, December 1858, was married Janu-
ary 13th, 1881. She leaves a husband and six
children, one daughter and five sons, four of her
children preceded her to the spirit world, her
oldest son is now on a mission in the Southern
States. She was an energetic worker, and her
heart was in her work, whatever she did she ac-
complished with credit to herself and co-workers.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
sister, Mary E. Smith, Secretary of the Thateher
Relief Society, we have resolved,
	Whereas our immediate association with her as
our secretary of the Relief Society of Thatcher we
feel it a duty to express our appreciation of her
labors in our society, her ever untiring example
as a worker in the cause of Christ. She was ever
ready to perform any duty assigned her, no mat-
ter what the call might be.
	She was a devoted wife and a kind, indulgent
mother, respected by all who knew her. Be it
	Resolved, We as sisters of this society do most
deeply mourn the loss of so faithful a sister, and
will try to follow the example she so worthily
set for us, and we are willing to say, “Thy will be
done.” Be it
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family, of Sister Smith,her husband and
children, and ask God to comfort them in their
hour of need, that He will hear their prayers and
heal their wounds. Be it
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
read in our Relief Society meeting, and also
entered on the minutes of our meeting and record-
ed, a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent, and
one to the bereaved family.
	Anna Anderson, President Amy-Toone, Sylva
Allsop, Counselors.


R. S. REPORTS.
SAN JUAN STAKE.
	San Juan Stake Relief Society Conference
was held at Monticello, Utah, May 16 and
17, 1908, and was very much blessed and
instructed through the visit of Sisters Harker
and Peters’ from head quarters. A general
stake conference was in session and the Re-
lief Society met at 4:30 p. m. both times.
President Mary N. Jones presiding.
	Four of the wards reported their organiza-
tions. There being live wards not represented.
	Sister Peters, a missionary in Salt Lake
Stake said “Let your light so shine that you
may gain respect for yourselves and lead
others to glorify the Lord. No greater mis-
sion is on earth than that of Motherhood.
I love to find daughters by the side of their
mothers; especially in household labors and
in Relief Society work.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Harriet B.Harker, who is a member
of the General Board, gave very timely in-
structions and expressed her pleasure to
meet with sisters of San Juan Stake. She
told the young mothers that the Society
needed their support and they in turn need-
ed the benefit of the Society. “Every
member is responsible for the condition of
the Society and the ward in general. Our
efforts are the source of our benefits. Of-
cers Meetings are a necessity.”
	Sister Harker also related a very practical
method of enlarging the Relief Society en-
rollment, which we hope to profit by.
				Eva L. Bayles,
					Secretary pro. term.

		GRANITE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Granite
Stake Relief Society was held at the Stake
Tabernacle, June 16, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
Sister Julina L. Smith of the General Board
was with us, and a number of the Stake Of-
ficers. The attendance was fairly good at
both sessions though hardly up to our usual
average. The morning speaker was Elder
B. S. Hinckley, who gave an excellent talk
on the Book of Esther, showing up the beau-
ties of the life and lifework of the lovely
Jewish woman who was raised up to become
the means of liberating her people from Per-
sian rule and oppression. Elder Hinckley
paid an eloquent tribute to all noble and
heroic women.
	Sister Armeda S. Young added a few
comments on the same subject.
	The afternoon speakers were Sister Julina
L. Smith who spoke of the faithful life of
the mother of the Prophet Joseph and read
several extracts from her autobiography.
	Sister Louisa Morris Decker gave a num-
ber of personal recollections of the Prophet
Joseph, and days in “old Nauvoo” before
and after the martyrdom and bore a con-
vincing testimony to the divinity of the mis-
sion of the great Latter-day Prophet.
	Sister Alice Pitt read some letters of
Brigham Young written to various members
of his family, and commented thereon.
	The musical exercises consisted of solos
by Sister Beatrice C. Thomas and Lucy M.
Green, and a duet by Sisters Thompson and
Ballard. The stake Relief Society choir
rendered several selections.
	Sister Armeda S. Young, who has been
our Stake Secretary for so many years was
honorably released and her able assistant
Sister Prudence Brown was chosen as her
successor. Sister Ida White was also re-

[Column 2]
leased from her duties as organist,and Sister
Lilian E. Bruerton was sustained in that
position.
	A dainty lunch was served between meet-
ings, and a very happy and profitable time
was spent by all who attended our confer-
ence.
				Lucy M. H. Green,
			Secretary of the Stake Board.

			EMERY STAKE.

	The Emery Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held at Ferron, May 13, and al-
though the weather was unfavorable and the
roads very muddy, the attendance exceeded
the average of our former conferences. Espe-
cially was there a good attendance of young
people. The hall was artistically prepared
and the floral decorations were profuse.
	The Relief Society stake officers were all
present. The morning session began at 10.
o’clock. President Mary A. Sorensen gave
a welcome address and also reported the
general condition of the Relief Society of the
stake.
	Miss Gertrude King rendered a beautiful
instrumental selection.
	Other speakers were Stake Counselor Ca-
roline M. Guymon, Bishop Newel K. Beal
and Elder Seth Allen.
	Sisters Nettie Crawford and Fannie Fox
sang ‘ Lead Me, O, My Savior.”
	Sister Lottie Duncan recited “The Way
to Heaven” and Sister Cheshire sang “Nau-
voo.”
	President Myra Hansen gave a good re-
port of the Ferron Relief Society.
	After the choir sang ‘‘Redeemer of Israel”
and the benediction had been pronounced
the curtain which divides the stage from the
hall, was raised, displaying tables spread
with the bounties of life and all were invited
to remain and partake of the same. This
was a pleasant surprise which the Ferron
Relief Society sisters, under the direction of
President Myra Hansen, had prepared. The
tables were beautifully decorated and the
young ladies, who waited on tables, were
cheerful and attentive.
	After two hours spent in dining, chatting
and shaking hands the afternoon session be-
gan. The speakers were President Mary A.
Sorensen, Counselor Mary J.King and Elder
Hyrum Zwahlen.
	About twenty little kindergarten children
sweetly sang “The Child and the River.”
	Reports were given by President Mary J.
Seely, Jane R. Cox and Treena Caldwell,
and a report of the Emery Relief Society was
read.
	Sister Olive Olsen gave a recitation en-
titled, “Shall We Know Each Other There?”
and Ruth May Fox rendered an instrumental
selection.
	A sketch of President Bathsheba W.Smith,
prepared by Sister Ada Petty, was read.
	A poem entitled to “To Aunt Em” was
read by the secretary.
	Choir sang “God Be With You Till We
Meet Again.”
	Benediction by Sister Annie Swensen.
			Annie Maria Allen,
						Secretary.

[Column 3]
		UINTAH STAKE
	Minutes of 45th Relief Society Confer-
ence of Uintah Stake of Zion held at Glines,
ward, May 9, 1908, President Sarah M. Col-
ton presiding with Counselor Agnes Ben-
nion in charge. 
	After usual opening exercises First Coun-
selor Nancy A. Colton said her heart went
out toward the sisters to see so many at
meeting on such a bleak day, She, in be-
half of the Stake Board welcomed the sis-
ters to conference. She was pleased to see
so many young sisters present, spoke of the
call that had come from headquarters for
some lady to attend the nurses’ class, but
at present we had found none to go. She
reported the stake, all the branches had
been visited except one, found part of them
in good condition.
	President Hannah Oldikirk reported Ver-
nal Relief Society.
	America M. Orser reported Jensen. Lec- 
ture from Naples Relief Society given by
Harriet Goodrich, entitled “Temperance.”
Address by Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett on the
lecture which had been given under the
name “Temperance.” A song from Glines
Relief Society by Mrs. Eddis Hair assisted
by Miss Hazel Johnson.
	Bishop’s Counselor George W. Parry
spoke of the evils of intemperance, referred
in particular to the misery that was brought
into the home because of liquor. He advised
the mothers to urge their children togo to the
temple to get married for time and eternity.
	President SarahM. Colton endorsed what
had been said, she also spoke on the sub-
ject of temperance, she believes in woman
suffrage, that we women should work shoul-
der to shoulder with our husbands. She did
not feel able to speak longer,she having been
sick for some length of time. She blessed
the sisters in their efforts to do right. 
	Closed with singing, and benediction
until 1 p. m.

	Afternoon session opened with singing,
and prayer and business matters. President
Phebe Hislop reported Maeser Relief Soci-
ety; Mary J. Hardy reported Glines: Emma
Roberts reported Naples; each president re-
ported her society in good condition, al-
though a great many families had moved to
the reservation.
	Recitation from Jensen Society given by
Miss Florence Billings, “Teacher’s Diadem.” 
Lecture from Vernal Relief Society, by Mrs.
Annie Black entitled “The life of Emmeline
B. Wells.” Song from Maeser Relief Society
by Clara C. Hacking, assisted by Miss Grace
Stringham and Mrs. Nellie Colton. Program
for the year read by the secretary Mrs.
Phebe A. Merkley. Mrs. Nancy A. Colton
gave advice on the program; she spoke of a
little book entitled “Bathsheba Smith’s
Blessing.” She had been enthused by the
lecture given this morning on Temperance.
She spoke at some length on the same.
Mrs. Mary Stringham had been well pleased
to be here with the sisters, but felt like she
had been out of school for some time for she
had not had the privilege of visiting the sis-
ters much since she left here, spoke of moth-
ers never to get so busy that they could not
have time to teach their children the Gospel.
	Mrs. Mary O'Neil bore her testimony and
spoke of the lessons we had had this day,
also spoke of the lessons given in Sabbath
School, Mrs. Agnes Bennion made a few
closing remarks and thanked all for their
presence. Conference adjourned for three
months with singing and benediction.
			Phebe A. Merkley, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.
	Dr. Margaret C Robert's Class in
obstetrics will commence on Monday,
October 12th, 1908. For further in-
forma[-]ion communicate with Dr M.
C. Roberts 404 Templeton Eldg , Salt
Lake City, Phone 2002. 

			R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY LADIES READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS		TRY US
				OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

