the General Board are as follows: Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, chairman, Elizabeth C. Crismon, Rebecca N. Nibley, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Mrs. Donetta Smith Kesler. The above mentioned persons were associated with Mrs. Zina Young Williams Card, Colonel Willard Young, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, and Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, in the details of the evenings entertainment. The entertainment was given in the General Board Headquarters on the evening of January 31, 1921, and was a charming affair from beginning to end. The music was as follows: Lizzie Thomas Edward, solo, "O My Father." Moroni J. Thomas, Mrs. Joseph Wood, Agnes O. Thomas, Sam Winter, quartet, sang, "I am a pilgrim," in the most ex-. Quisite style and voice. Relief Society Choir, directed by Lizzie Thomas Edward, sang, "I need thee every hour," and "The resurrection day." Colonel Willard Young had charge of the program as master of ceremonies. The first speaker was President Zina D. H. Young's only daughter, Mrs. Zina Y. W. Card. She related many interesting incidents in the lives of her own mother and her grandfather's and grandmother's history. She told of the coming of one of the three Nephites to visit the Huntington family, just about the time the Prophet Joseph translated the Book of Mormon. She 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Described, in vivid language, the pioneer home life of grandfather Wm. Huntington, in their New England home, and related the conversion of the family through the Martyr-Patriarch Hyrum Smith. She referred to her mother's first marriage, and the two noble sons born of that union, Zebulon and Chariton Jacobs, and then told other interesting facts concerning her mother's removal to Nauvoo, and subsequent life. Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Mrs. Phebe Beattie, both eulogized the life and character of their sainted step-mother, in touching and moving words. Sister Jeanette A. Hyde followed with a brief but comprehensive sketch of the life and labors of President Zina D. H. Young. Siste
Centennial of President Zina D. Huntington Young The recent one hundredth anniversary of the birth of our third General President of the Relief Society was celebrated in a delightful and instructive way by a joint memorial program given by her descendants, and members of the General Board of the Relief Society. The Committee on entertainment appointed by r, William Huntington, came into the Church with his 5 children, the three sons, William, Dymoch, and Oliver, the two daughters, Zina and Prescinda. Wm. And Dymoch were the chosen body-guard of the Prophet Joseph Smith in his life, his death, and they guarded his body to its final resting-place. Dymoch was the leader of the pioneer martial band. Who does not remember his stately dignity, his imposing appearance, as he marched at the head of the procession and of his band on our national holidays? Prescinda married President Heber C. Kimball, and her son Joseph is one of our well-known business men. Descendants of each of these five families were guests at the memorial service, about fifty of them being from the Huntington's and about thirty were from Sister Zina's family. Bishop Huntington of Springville who was present is the worthy son of his noble father Oliver Huntington, the Patriarch. Refreshments were served by the granddaughters of Zina D. H. Young, and consisted of old-fashioned cookies, bananas, cheese and chocolate. It may be interesting to our readers to give here a sketch of Sister Young which was printed in the Young Ladies' Mutual Invprovement Association History, some years ago. ZINA D. HUNTINGTON YOUNG "There have been many noble women, some great women, and a multitude of good women, associated, past and present, with the Latter-day work. But of them all, none was so lovely, so lovable, and so greatly beloved as was "Aunt Zina." To be sure the explanation seems simple, but it only "seems," for it is anything but simple to live the perfect Christian life which was lived by this saintly woman for over eighty years. "Aunt Zina was a perfect example of the teachings of Paul I Corinthians 13; yet, with all her tenderness and exquisite deli- CENTENNIAL OF PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG. 131 cacy of motive and act, there was a sturdy strength about her which made up the heroic part of her character. She was extremely quick in her perceptions, and was keenly conscious of malicious conduct or slighting treatment; but her nobility prevented her from resenting ill-treatment, and she was ready to forgive long before asked to do so. "Tt is related of her that on one occasion she was told that a certain woman did not like her. Aunt Zina looked quietly into the eyes of her informer and said, with simple dignity and sincerity: 'Well, I love her, sister, and she can't help herself.' "Tt is an established fact that, almost without exception, the founders of the "Mormon" Church were descendants of the founders of the American nation, and it is a pleasing task to study the genealogical history of the men and women who have, under God, laid the foundations of this Church. "Zina Huntington Young was descended from a line of distinguished ancestry. Lady Salina Huntington, who came from one branch of the family, was the daughter of the Earl of Ferrars, and a co-laborer of the famous reformer, Wesley. The pedigree of this family, and that of George Washington, the first 'American, meet in the same parentage, a few generations before either of these distinguished personages was born. The mother of Aunt Zina was a Dimock, and she was of the family of Sir. Edward Dymock, Knight. Champion to Queen Elizabeth. The Dymocks were hereditary holders of this title for several generations. "Aunt Zina's father was one of the patriots who served in the war of 1812. Samuel Huntington, one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence, was the uncle of this sturdy and gallant soldier. Her own father was descended directly from Simon Huntington, the Puritan immigrant, who sailed for America in 1633, but on the way died of small-pox. His wife and little children settled in Roxbury, and were under the direct charge of the famous pastor, John Elliot. Her paternal grandmother was a Lathrop, of the Black River Valley, New York. "Aunt Zina was born Jan. 31, 1821, at Watertown where her parents had emigrated, and she was baptized in Kirtland by the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, August 14, 1835. Young as she was, she received, during this year at Kirtland the two beautiful gifts which never afterwards left her: that of speaking in tongues and of interpretation of tongues. She was a member of the Kirtland temple choir, and began, even in her youth, the work of her life—the teaching of the young. She was eminently gifted -as a teacher. She not only had the gift of imparting information from the modest store of book-learning which she possessed, but she had that higher, rarer gift of imparting the inspiration 
 Of her own high ideals and character to the youth who were under her care. "She was married in her youth, and had two fine boys, Zebulon and Chariton Jacobs; but the union was not a happy one, and she subsequently separated from her husband. She was married in the order of celestial marriage to the Prophet Joseph Smith, for time and eternity. After the martyrdom of the Prophet, she accepted the offer of a home, under the roof of President Young, and was married to him for time. She had one child to Brigham Young, a daughter, Zina, who is a worthy representative of a spiritual and sainted mother. "Aunt Zina's mother died during the persecutions in Missouri, and the family were all so ill that only two of the number could attend the funeral. Her father died, also a martyr, at the camp at Pisgah, after the Saints were driven from Nauvoo. The Saints at this time were in the most terrible straits. Deaths were so frequent that it was difficult to find well ones who could bury the dead. Many were buried with split logs at the bottom of the graves, while the sides were lined with brush hastily cut from the roadside. It was at this time that Father Huntington was taken sick, and died in eighteen days. "Aunt Zina went to Winter Quarters after the death of her father; and she crossed the plains, in 1848, with her husband's family, walking, driving team, cooking beside the camp-fire, and sharing, nay, bearing far more than her part of the burdens of the journey. She was an expert bread-maker and her salt-rising would come up when all the others were dead and cold. No one will ever know how little of her own provisions she ate, and how much she gave to others less favored than herself. After arriving in Salt Lake Valley, she lived first in the Old Fort, then in the "Log Row," a short distance north of the Eagle Gate, and later with the other members of the family moved (in 1856) into the famous Lion House. "Aunt Zina taught school for many years, for there must be schools, and the men were all busy with the strenuous pioneer labors in canyon and field. She began teaching in Nauvoo; next, she had a noisy, yet merry, school in Winter Quarters, and finally opened a small class in her own small room in the Log Fort. After the Lion House was built and teachers multiplied, she turned her attention to other philanthropic labors, for her spirit was far too active, and her capacity too great, to make her satisfied with the small compass of her own four walls. She walked the difficult path of public trust, side by side with Eliza R. Snow. "When the Relief Society was reorganized in Utah by Brigham Young, Aunt Zina was chosen as-treasurer. Later, when the general organization was completed, June 19, 1880, she was CENTENNIAL OF PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG. 133 the first counselor to Sister Eliza R. Snow. This office she held until the death of Sister Snow, when she was elected the president of that historic society, and she continued in that office till her own death, on the 28th of August, 1902. She was thus, for ten years, elect lady of the Church and no more beautiful soul ever occupied that exalted position. "She was chosen in the early seventies by Brigham Young to take up the "mission" of establishing silk-culture in the Territory, and to her death she was faithful to the trust then imposed upon her. To hear her modest story of the suffering she endured in silence, while working on the silk farm established by President Young in the suburbs of the city, was to hear what real heroism means. She was afflicted with a mortal terror of worms, having a birth mark in the palm of her hand in the shape of a curled-up worm. But when she was called upon to take up the work in sericulture, she told no one of her affliction, ggsolved that she would conquer her terror, if she died of heartfailure-in the attempt. And conquer, to an extent, she did. She fed and took care of millions of worms, and although there were months that her dreams were nightmare remembrances of her daily horror, she never faltered. She lived to see the silk industry fostered and made comparatively successful through legislative enactment. And she wore, for many years, home-made silk dresses as her best attire. "Tn no other line of work and effort was Aunt Zina better known and more appreciated than in her ministrations to the sick and dying in the household of faith. She was an angel of hope and faith to thousands and thousands of the Latter-day Saints. Who has not seen the heavenly comfort and faith beaming from her eye as she knelt over the sick or soothed the mourner! In those early days, whose child was not nursed back to health, or robed for its last long sleep, by the tender hands of this angelic woman! What household was not made better, purer, holier far, because of the presence of this saintly woman and womanly saint! "She was early educated in the simple mysteries of obstetrics by a visiting physician to the Territory of Utah, Dr. Mary Barker, and ever after she was called from her home in season and out of season, to preside as high priestess at the altar of birth. She heard the birth-cry of more children than any other woman in Utah. And, withal, she bore three, and reared a large family of her husband's children. Col. Willard Young, Mrs. Mary Y. Croxall, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie were as near and dear to her as if she had borne them in the flesh. And her memory, to them, is as sweet and sacred as is their own saintly mother, Clara Chase Young, who died at the 
 Birth of Phebe. Aunt Zina took the children into her home and heart. "She was the soul of generosity, and yet not lavish; she was forgiving to a fault, and still she always knew when people assailed her. She was eloquent, and had a personal magnetism which attracted the merest stranger instantly to her side. She was sweetly proud, and her soul was filled with an exquisite dignity. "She labored for years as a high priestess, first in the Endowment House, and then in the Salt Lake Temple, where she presided among the women workers to the day of her death. "Tn the work in the Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association, Aunt Zina's work was co-equal with the labors of Sister Eliza R. Snow. Together they traveled, Sister Snow's ringing challenge penetrating into the very depths of the girls' minds and brains, while Aunt Zina's loving appeal sank into their hearts and distilled upon their souls like the dews upon the thirsty hills around their valley homes. They traveled thousands and thousands of miles, mostly in carriages or wagons, holding two and sometimes four meetings a day, organizing branches of the Retrenchment, or Mutual Improvement, Associations, meeting with the Relief Societies, "preaching up" silk, or the loyal support of home industry; securing subscribers to the Womans Exponent; urging the women and the girls to study well their responsibilities, as mothers, wives and daughters. Then, one meeting dismissed, the same audience would assemble while these two orators and organizers would call a session of the Suffrage Society, or, perhaps, a meeting of the children's Primary Associations. And in this taxing and yet glorious life this woman, these women, lived, labored, suffered and passed to their rewards." ° The death of Eliza R. Snow occurred on December 5, 1887. At the following April conference, Zina D. H. Young was sustained as General President. The following notice appeared in the Woman's Exponent, April 15, 1888: "On Sunday afternoon, April 8, Apostle F. D. Richards presented the authorities of the Church to be voted for, and all were sustained in their places as at the previous conference in October. "Apostle Richards stated that it. Had been deemed advisable to omit the full statistical report of the Church, and of the Relief Society, Young Ladies' and Primary Associations, at the present conference. Our late lamented sister, Eliza R. Snow Smith, has been president of the Relief Society ever since its organization in these mountains, and has labored with unexampled diligence for its welfare and advancement. Her death now leaves CENTENNIAL OF PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG. 135 the organization without a president. Sister Zina D. Young was her first counselor. It is now moved and seconded that she be made president. Sister Young was chosen by unanimous vote. The selection of her counselors was left for further consideration. The following general officers of the Relief Society were then sustained: Sarah M. Kimball, secretary; Romania B. Pratt, asistant secretary; M. Isabella Horne, treasurer." At the October conference following Sister Young chose her counselors; the first counselor being Bathsheba W. Smith, the second, Jane S. Richards, Secretary, Sarah M. Kimball. Romania B. Penrose who had been named at the April General Conference as Treasurer was made assistant General Secretary, while Mary Isabella Horne was appointed as General Treasurer, with Emmeline B. Wells, as Corresponding Secretary, and most of these officers continued in service until death claimed our beloved President Zina D. H. Young, which occurred, as has been stated, August 28, 1902. During the administration of President Zina D. H. Young, she traveled much among the Relief Societies, exhorting the sisters and inspiring them to diligence in their various labors. She encouraged the establishment of nurses classes, and fostered the growth of the movement organized by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, to establish nurse class work in direct association with our Relief Societies. It was during Aunt Zina's administration that statehood came to Utah, and she took an active part in traveling throughout the state, urging the inclusion of full voting privileges for women in the new Constitutional Convention. She was not a delegate to that Convention, but was in constant attendance, and encouraged the friends of the Suffrage movement, while her name appears at the head of the mammoth list of women petitioners, who poured in their appeals to the Convention, in behalf of restoring the very precious elective privilege which Congress had taken away from the territory in the Edmunds-Tucker Bill of 1887-1888. She presided at mass meetings of her sex, and directed the general conferences of the Relief Society with her usual charm and dignity. She called the first general conference of the Relief Society, April 6, 1889. In that historic conference the following stakes made response to the call as follows: Bannock, Bear Lake, Box Elder, Davis, Emery, Juab, Kanab, Millard, Oneida, Salt Lake, St. George, San Pete, Summit, Weber, Morgan (presidents), Beaver, Parowan, Panguitch, San Juan (counselors). President Zina D, H. Young, was the principal speaker on that memorable occasion, when the sisters gathered from all 
 Over the inter-mountain region for the first time in formal conference. She witnessed the gradual extinction of the silk industry, which she had so lovingly fostered and built up, because of commercial conditions, and because of the action taken by the government at Washington, in regard to duty on the raw silk. She also was present at the demise of the Deseret Hospital movement, but assisted with all her mind and might, in the establishment of our beautiful Latter-day Saint Hospital, which practically absorbed the woman's separate hospital movement. Many beautiful parties were given for her, sometimes by the General Board of the Relief Society, but far more frequently by her loving daughters, Maria Y. Dougall and Phebe Y. Beatie. Her own beloved pioneer daughter, Zina, had moved to Canada, and lived there during her mother's administrative labors in the General Board of the Relief Society. She made a trip to the Sandwich Islands and one to the eastern states, speaking in public and private in explanation of her religious beliefs and proving by her presence the falsity of many stories concerning the women of her people. President Zina D. H. Young died beloved and mourned by her children, her friends, and her people. The joy in the hearts of those who knew her consists in the anticipation of the renewal of happy association with "Aunt Zina" in her glorified home in the Celestial Kingdom. THE HAWAIIAN TEMPLE. A pamphlet describing the Hawaiian Temple, with an accompanying statement, concerning the purposes for which it has been built, and beautifully illustrated, has just been published by the Church. The former chief recorder of the Salt Lake Temple, and now the research recorder, Duncan M. McAllister, is the author of this beautiful booklet. So clear and simple are the descriptions of the work done, that every young person would do well to read this book as a little preliminary, before going into the Temple themselves.