OCTOBER COMFORTS ME WARM

October whirls

within my breast

like scarlet leaves in roiling wind . . .

October stirs my throbbing pulse

now that summer's maize is storage-binned,

garnered from rows of April green,

now harvest-thinned . . .

\? Kernels bulging with promised strength

against a frost-filled hunger-need,

holding the secret of new life

within each sleeping seed . . .

Now against the darkness,

foreboding sky,

and impending winter-harm

crimson October swirls in my heart

with fire-gold to comfort me warm.

—Kathryn Kay

The Cover:

Frontispiece:

Art Layout:

Illustrations:

Mount Hood, Oregon, Wearing a Cap of Snow

Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts

Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Autumn Morning

Photograph by Harry Harpster, Jr.

Dick Scopes

Mary Scopes

Very Dear Sisters Everywhere: May I tell you, please, of my deep gratitude for the

honor and privilege of illustrating your beautiful stories these past years? I shall treasure

always the happiness and inspiration you have given me so generously. Thank

you, thank you, for your many kindnesses. What fine, wonderful people you are! I'll

think of you often— and miss you all! Mary Scopes, Salt Lake City, Utah

We of the Tempe Stake wish to express our thanks and appreciation to all of you for

the Relief Society Magazine. We love and sustain our Prophet Joseph Fielding Smith

and know the adult magazine will bring great blessings as the Relief Society Magazine

has in the past. Barbara Ellingson, Tempe Stake Relief Society President,

Tempe, Arizona

Church Magazine Conversion Rules

The following are rules the Church Magazine Office is using to apply The Era,

Instructor, and Relief Society credits toward the Adult Magazine.

The subscriber's name and address as it appears on The Era file will be used

for the Adult Magazine. The Era file is being used as the base for the Adult file.

The months remaining on an Instructor subscription and a Relief Society Magazine

subscription will be added to The Era subscription.

The number of Adult Magazines a subscriber receives will be determined by

the number of Eras being received. If a person is not receiving an Era, the number

of Adult Magazines he receives will be determined by the number of Instructors

being received. If a person is not receiving The Era or Instructor, the number of

Adult Magazines he receives will be determined by the number of Relief Society

Magazines being received. In the case of institutional subscribers such as seminaries,

institutes, and ward libraries, the number of Adult Magazines they will receive

will be determined by the largest number they are receiving of either The Era or

The Instructor.

Samples of typical situations encountered in the combining of Era and Relief

Society subscriptions are printed on the following pages. The rule being followed

in each case is stipulated. While it is realized on occasion these may not be the

actions subscribers desire, rules have to be adopted that would seem to apply in most

cases. Where a particular example fits your situation and the action taken isn't what

is desired, write and tell the Church Magazine Office at 79 South State Street, Salt

Lake City, Utah 84111, and they will attempt to follow your wishes.

1. If the complete name and address are exactly the same on the Relief Society Magazine

and Era list, the remaining months of the Relief Society Magazine beyond

December will be added to The Era.

SAMPLE

Era Subscription List Relief Society Magazine Subscription List

84302HUME-216E017 0CT71

OLIVE A HUME

216 E 3RD S

BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302

MRS. OLIVE A HUME

216 E 3RD S

BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 JAN72

BRIG C-B C 17

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1970
unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts ill be retained for six months only. THe Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.