[Vol28 | July 1941 | Sequence: 00pb1 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: FrontiersBack of]
THE    COVER 
r  lew  frontiers ... 
By  Avard  Fairbanks 
THE  
Pioneers  faced  a  frontier  which  demanded  struggle, 
sacrifice  and  sorrow,  but  still  they  pressed  on.  Out  in 
the  West  a  culture  charged  with  spirituality  of  mind,  with 
idealism  in  the  building  of  healthy  and  strong  bodies,  and  with 
plans  for  a  splendid  system  of  social  organization  was  fostered  by 
the  pioneer  forefathers.  Have  the  sons  and  daughters  of  these 
hardy  people  lost  sight  of  the  vision  and  foresight  of  their  ances- 
tors? We  cannot  falter,  for  today  we  have  new  frontiers  to  conquer. 
The  group  of  sculpture  representing  "New  Frontiers,"  com- 
posed and  placed  in  the  Century  of  Progress  Exposition  in  Chi- 
cago, was  so  created  to  show  that  in  our  progress  and  develop- 
ment there  are  new  frontiers  for  the  descendents  of  the  Pioneers. 
In  the  arrangement  of  this  particular  group  of  sculpture,  the 
mother  is  placed  in  an  elevated  position — symbolic  of  our  Amer- 
ican concept  of  the  mother.  She  is  the  center  about  which  the 
family  life  is  grouped.  She  is  honored,  and  it  is  her  husband's 
desire  to  keep  her  thus.  She  seeks  the  refinements  of  life.  She 
looks  forward.  She  senses  and  feels  the  living  development  and 
the  great  future  beyond.  It  is  her  duty  to  guide  and  direct  the 
children  toward  futures  of  high  purpose. 
The  courageous  and  strong  husband  provides  for  the  physical 
necessities  of  life.  It  may  be  noticed  that  in  his  right  hand  he 
grasps  the  vegetables  and  fruits  of  the  fields.  He  cultivates  or 
provides  that  which  gives  sustenance  to  his  family.  In  his  left 
hand  he  supports  the  child.  It  is  the  great  responsibility  of  true 
manhood  to  sponsor,  uphold  and  protect  life. 
The  young  boy  at  the  opposite  side  of  the  group  is  shown 
with  his  books  in  his  hand.  He,  as  a  symbol  of  youth,  sees  new 
fields  of  activity  as  a  result  of  his  learning.  He  is  to  carry  on  the 
culture  of  his  progenitors. 
As  our  religious  teachings  point  out  that  progress  is  eternal 
and  that  "the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,"  we  must  realize  that 
we  cannot  come  to  the  end  of  the  horizon.  It  is  constantly  expand- 
ing and  enlarging  with  our  increased  vision  and  activities. 
This  group  of  sculpture  through  its  tranquility  and  its  dignity 
manifests  that  the  youth  of  today  seeks  to  further  advance  the 
culture  established  by  the  great  Pioneers.  The  youth  of  today 
also  will  take  on  responsibilities  of  life.  With  force  and  energy 
it  too  will  struggle  and  sacrifice  and  meet  courageously  its  "New 
Frontiers." 
Editoi's  Note:  "New  Frontiers,"  composed  by  Avard  Fairbanks,  is  no-w- 
in the  Church  museum,  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  Cit-7.  Art  -work  on  this 
month's  cover  is  b-y  Evan  Jensen.

$ianoo  ,         „.   ^..^ 
120 
'  III'..-    -•-•      -  '  -  N  .  •i/«>^ -.•     • 
anof]_ 
THE  RESULT  OF  ONE 
MAN'S    EFFORTS 
TO  HEAR  AGAIN 
OTARION  is  not  just  another  hearing  aid.  It  is  the  result  of  one  man's  determined 
effort  to  produce  a  hearing  aid  that  would  enable  him  to  regain  contact  with  the 
lost  v/orld  of  conversation  and  music.  He  demanded  something  better  in  every 
respect.  The  result  is  OTARION.  The  modern  conception  of  the  vacuum  tube 
hearing  aid. 
Compare    OTARION    with    any    other   hearing   aid   regardless   of   price.      Budget   plan 
available. 
Discuss  your  hearing   problem  privately  with  a   trained  expert  in  our  office,   without 
obligation  or  in  your  home  if  you  prefer. 
CALL  or  SEND  IN  this  AD  for  the  interesting  story  of  OTARION. 
OTARION   511   Mclntyre  B!dg. 
DONALD    G.    LYMAN  Salt  Lake  City  Dial  5-4036 
Good  Bread  is  the  Staff  of  Life! 
FISHER'S  BETTER  BREAD 
Baked  by  The  Fisher  Master  Bakers 
and  Delivered  Oven-fresh  Daily  at  Your  Grocer's 
Is  One  of  Your  Best  Food  Values 
Add   to   meal-time    variety    by   serving 
several  kinds  of  Bread  with  each  meal 
QndiOL  jto  ddvsudiiiJiJidu 
Fisher  Baking  Company       .                  .                  .                  .  .                  Fly-leaf 
Larkin  Mortuaries                  .                  .                  .             *      .  Inside  Back  Cover 
L.  D.  S.  Business  College     .                  .                  .                  .  Inside  Back  Cover 
Mountain  Fuel  Supply  Company         .                  .                   .  Inside  Back  Cover 
Otarion                   .                   .                   .                   .                   .  .                   Fly-leaf 
The  Deseret  News  Press       .                  .            ,     •                  •  Outside  Back  Cover 
W/itvi    Buying    Mention    Relief    Socicly    Magazine

The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
Monthly  Publication  of  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Vol.  28  JULY,  1941  No.  7 
Special  Features 
The  Cover — "New  Frontiers" — Avard  Fairbanks    Inside  front  cover
