[Vol28 | July 1941 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: CONTENT]
intriguing  contents,  to  your  front  ter  since  the  latter's  departure,  and 
porch  morning  and  afternoon.  If  had  no  very  good  idea  of  where  she 
you  are  fortunate  enough  to  have  a  might  be;  but  the  Johnsons  prom- 
very  modern  home  with  all  the  latest  ised  to  make  inquiries  after  they  ar- 
gadgets,  you  don't  even  have  to  both-  rived  in  the  Valley,  and  if  they  could 
et  to  go  outside— thereby  exposing  find  out  where  Mrs.  Jones'  sister  had 
yourself  to  the  rigors  of  cold  weather  located,  they  would  pass  the  letter 
and  your  curlers  to  the  stares  of  the  on  to  someone  going  in  that  direc- 
neighbors— in  order    to    gather  up  tion. 
your  letters.  They  are  projected  The  Johnsons  were  faithful  to 
right  into  the  privacy  of  the  front  their  trust  and,  in  time,  gave  the  let- 
hall  by  way  of  the  clever  new  mail  ter  to  another  family  who  were  trav- 
chute.  cling  to  Cache  Valley,  where  it  was 
If  your  letter  is  one  of  the  thou-  thought  the  woman  now  lived.  By 
sands  that  are  carried  daily  by  air-  inquiring  of  families  along  the  way, 
plane,  it  may  have  been  postmarked  the  sister  was  finally  located  and  the 
from  a  distant  city  only  a  few  hours  letter  delivered  many  months  after 
before.  Even  if  it  has  come  by  train,  it  had  started  toward  its  destination, 
it  has  only  been  a  matter  of  days  This  is  the  true  story,  not  of  Mrs. 
sinceitleft  for  its  destination;  where-  Jones'  letter,  but  of  hundreds  of 
as,  once  upon  a  time.  .  .  .  Those  others  that  were  passed  along  in  this 
words  are  the  time-honored  begin-  fashion  until  some  sort  of  regular 
ning  for  a  fairy  story,  and  while  we  mail  service  was  established, 
take  our  rapid  delivery  of  mail  very  Naturally  much  could  happen  in- 
much  for  granted  in  this  day,  such  between  the  times  these  letters  were 
a  feat  as  the  sending  of  a  letter  from  written  and  delivered,  and  there  are 
Utah  to  California  in  approximately  cases  on  record  of  people  writing  to 
four  hours  would  have  come  much  tell  relatives  of  their  impending  ar- 
nearer  resembling  a  fairy  story  than  rival  in  the  Territory  and  then  com- 
a  fact  to  the  early-day  pioneers  of  ing  in  advance  of  the  letter  itself, 
the  West.  Even  such  uncertain  service  some- 
For  the  first  few  years  after  the  times  cost  a  great  deal;  one  woman 
Pioneers  arrived  in  the  Great  Salt  wrote  of  having  to  pay  $1.10  delivery 
Lake  Valley,  letters  were  brought  by  charges  on  two  letters  during  the 
the  incoming  immigrant  trains  to  winter  of  '48.    She  added,  however, 
those  settlers  who  had  come  earlier,  that  she  didn't  mind  this  exorbitant 
For  instance,  when  Mrs.  Jones,  who  rate  because  she  was  so  glad  to  get 
was  still  back  in  the  States,  learned  the  letters, 
that  the  Johnson  family  was  plan-  Sending  mail  out  of  the  Valley  was 
•  Page  443

FIRST  POSTOFFICE  IN  SALT  LAKE  CITY 
— Photograph,  Courtesy  Salt  Lake  Tribune 
still  a  more  difficult  matter,  as  prac- 
tically all  of  the  travel  was  in  this 
direction.  The  first  letter  sent  out 
was  one  written  by  Brigham  Young 
during  August,  1847,  and  carried 
back  to  the  Saints  in  Winter  Quar- 
ters by  Ezra  Benson.  It  told  of  the 
safe  arrival  in  the  Valley  of  the 
original  company,  the  conditions  of 
the  new  settlement,  and  assured 
help  to  those  who  were  still  to  come, 
should  they  be  in  need  of  it.  It 
encouraged  them  to  praise  God  for 
His  goodness  and  to  be  of  good 
cheer. 
Letters  from  the  Valley  left,  neces- 
sarily, without  benefit  of  stamps  or 
envelopes  and  were  usually  wrapped