[Vol28 | July 1941 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Planned Living April McConkie]
Though many nations war, In darkness grope, The loyal souls within those homes Will still have hope. A = Planned Living Vivian R. McConkie (Relief Society General Conference, General Session, April 3, 1941) HE way a man lives and thinks is his philosophy.
Philosophy is the way you look at life. A philosopher makes it a business to look at life. He draws up a plan of what he sees, and we call it a philosophic system. Latter-day Saints have a revealed philosophic system?a plan of life given to them by our Heavenly Father. If we accept the Gospel as such, at the very outset we have a point of advantage in this floundering world. We have a plan to live by. The heights we climb will depend upon our understanding of and our appreciation for this restored and revealed doctrine of Christ.
Where people have an abundance of understanding and appreciation for the Gospel, they are very anxious that their families and the people over whom they preside by virtue of their callings in the Church, acquire a rich understanding and an appreciation for its principles. The world is groping blindly for an acceptable philosophy. The philosophies of men are continually changing.
What is acceptable one day is rejected the next, either totally or in part.
Today philosophy serves as a hypothesis to build upon. Men are ever striving to arrive at truth. The difference between our plan of life and the man-made theories is that ours has been tevealed from heaven, and revealed truth is always the same. "Truth abideth forever and ever." (Doctrine and Covenants 1:39) I want to discuss planned living from the Gospel angle.
Before an Page 480 effective plan of any sort is made, we must feel the need for it, and it must be worthy of consideration.
This is our stimulus. It would be better to make plans to bring about desired ends before we become overwhelmed in difficulties, but a great many of us never look at life nor think about it until we are startled into it.
Frequently deep and unhappy experiences set us to thinking.
Before we take opportunity to stop and to think through to an answer, our daily round of duties prevents our doing so.
Life goes headlong, and the next step finds us still baffled and unprepared. Nevertheless, it is never too late to put determined efforts to better use.
What is the goal that we as Latter-day Saint mothers desire to achieve and to have our families achieve? The ultimate aim is to perfect ourselves and our families, that we might have eternal life; that is, become so perfect that we can live in the presence of The Eternal One. Our immediate aims are to know how to do this, and what the requirements are. How are we going to plan to accomplish it?
Good planning has two important characteristics: (1) It ought to be realistic; that is, there should be agreement on exactly what results we want to get and the techniques to acquire them by a direct method.
