[Vol28 | July 1941 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Article | Title: M. I. A. And Primary General Conferences]
442 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY,  1941 
valley  opened  before  us,  at  the  same  instant 
that  we  caught  a  glimpse  of  the  distant 
bosom  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake,  which  lay 
expanded  before  us  to  the  westward,  at  the 
distance  of  some  twenty  miles.  .  .  .  Exten- 
sive herds  of  cattle,  horses,  and  sheep,  were 
grazing  in  every  direction.  .  .  .  Passing  over 
some  miles  of  pasture  land,  we  at  length 
found  ourselves  in  a  broad  and  fenced 
street,  extending  westward  in  a  straight  line 
for  several  miles.  Houses  of  sun-dried  brick 
were  thickly  clustered  in  the  vale  before  us, 
some  thousands  in  number  and  occupying 
a  spot  about  as  large  as  the  city  of  New 
York.  They  were  mostly  small,  one  story 
high,  and  perhaps  not  more  than  one  oc- 
cupying an  acre  of  land. 
"The  whole  space  for  miles,  excepting 
the  streets  and  houses,  was  in  a  high  state 
of  cultivation.  Fields  of  yellow  wheat 
stood  waiting  for  the  harvest,  and  Indian 
corn,  potatoes,  oats,  flax,  and  all  kinds  of 
garden  vegetables,  were  growing  in  pro- 
fusion, and  seemed  about  in  the  same  state 
of  forwardness  as  in  the  same  latitude  in 
the  States.  .  .  We  passed  on  amid  scenes 
like  these,  expecting  every  moment  to  come 
to  some  commercial  center,  some  business 
point  in  this  great  metropolis  of  the  moun- 
tains, but  we  were  disappointed.  No  hotel, 
sign -post,  cake  and  beer- shop,  barber  pole, 
market-house,  grocery,  provision,  dry  goods, 
or  hardware  store  distinguished  one  part 
of  the  town  from  another,  not  even  a 
bakery  or  mechanic's  sign  was  anywhere 
discernible. 
"Here,  then,  was  something  new:  ar^  en- 
tire people  reduced  to  a  level,  and  all  living 
by  their  labor — all  cultivating  the  earth, 
or  following  some  branch  of  physical  in- 
dustry. At  first  I  thought  it  was  an  ex- 
periment, an  order  of  things  established 
purposely  to  carry  out  the  principles  of 
'Sociahsm'  or  'Mormonism.'  In  short, 
I  thought  it  very  much  like  Owenism  per- 
sonified. However,  on  inquiry,  I  found  that 
a  combination  of  seemingly  unavoidable 
circumstances  had  produced  this  singular 
state  of  affairs.  There  were  no  hotels,  be- 
cause there  had  been  no  travel;  no  barbers' 
shops,  because  everyone  chose  to  shave  him- 
self, and  no  one  had  time  to  shave  his 
neighbour;  no  stores,  because  they  had  no 
goods  to  sell  or  time  to  traffic;  no  center 
of  business,  because  all  were  too  busy  to 
make  a   center. 
There  was  an  abundance  of  mechanic 
shops,  of  dressmakers,  milliners,  and  tailors, 
etc;  but  they  needed  no  sign,  nor  had  they 
time  to  paint  or  erect  one,  for  they  were 
crowded  with  business.  Besides  their  sev- 
eral trades,  all  must  cultivate  the  land,  or 
die;  for  the  country  was  new,  and  no  cul- 
tivation but  their  own  within  a  thousand 
miles.  Everyone  had  his  own  lot,  and  built 
on  it;  everyone  cultivated  it,  and  perhaps  a 
small  farm  in  the  distance. 
"And  the  strangest  of  all  was,  that  this 
great  city,  extending  over  several  square 
miles,  had  been  erected,  and  every  house 
and  fence  made,  within  nine  or  ten  months 
of  the  time  of  our  arrival;  while  at  the  same 
time,  good  bridges  were  erected  over  the 
principal  streams,  and  the  country  settle- 
ments extended  nearly  one  hundred  miles 
up  and  down  the  valley. 
"This  territory,  state,  or,  as  some  term 
it,  'Mormon  Empire,'  may  justly  be  con- 
sidered as  one  of  the  greatest  prodigies  of 
the  age,  and,  in  comparison  with  its  age, 
the  most  gigantic  of  all  republics  in  exis- 
tence, being  only  its  second  year  since  the 
first  seed  of  cultivation  was  planted,  or  the 
first  civilized  habitation  commenced." 
As  immigration  continued,  settle- 
ment spread  out  over  the  Valley. 
Colonies  were  led  to  the  Cotton- 
wood area  by  John  Holladay  and 
Amasa  Lyman  in  1848.  In  the  same 
year  Joseph  Harker  led  the  way  ''over 
Jordan";  Welsh  converts  settled  at 
Granger  in  1849.  Draper  and  River- 
ton  were  colonized  in  the  early  ''fif- 
ties." By  1852,  though  the  popula- 
tion could  not  have  exceeded  8000, 
Orson  Hyde  was  saying  in  the  Octo-