[Vol28 | July 1941 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Fiction | Title: The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Four Alice Morrey Bailey]
The  Merry-Go-Round 
Alice  Money  Bailey 
CHAPTER  4 
SYNOPSIS 
ALYN  FORDYCE,  proud  of  her  back- 
ground of  family  and  wealth  is  shocked 
when  her  husband, 
JOHN  FORDYCE,  whom  she  has  never 
considered  a  great  success,  announces 
that  he  has  lost  his  job — which  he  has 
never  liked,  but  which  paid  a  salary  of 
$500  a  month — and  has  taken  a  job 
with  Mr.  Milton,  of  the  Intermountain 
Milton  Nurseries,  working  at  horticul- 
ture— which  he  has  always  liked,  but 
which  pays  only  $150  a  month.  He  is 
stubborn  about  using  their  brilliant  so- 
cial connections  to  obtain  a  more  lucra- 
tive position,  and  Alyn  accuses  him  of 
selfishness,  reminding  him  that  she  needs 
material  things  to  compensate  her  for 
her  inability  to  have  children. 
John  discovers  a  sport,  or  mutation, 
on  an  apricot  tree — one  limb  that  blos- 
soms earlier  than  the  rest. 
Alyn  meets  Judith  Wyatt,  an  attrac- 
tive young  widow,  who  is  apparently  to 
become  a  mother. 
Alyn  pretends  to  her  friends  that 
there  has  been  no  change  in  the  For- 
dyce's  financial  status,  even  though  they 
have  actually  run  short  of  food,  due,  of 
course,  to  her  inabihty  to  manage  on 
John's  limited  salary.  She  and  John 
quarrel  over  money. 
Alyn  is  discouraged.  She  reviews  her 
life  with  John  and  sees  no  place  in 
which  she  has  failed.  Indeed,  she  feels 
that  she  has  contributed  a  great  deal 
toward  their  marriage,  which  John,  for 
some  reason,  fails  to  appreciate.  She 
feels  he  is  insensitive  to  her  needs  and 
callous  to  her  misery.  She  has  no  chil- 
dren— nothing  to  compensate  her  for 
all  she  has  endured.  "There  is  just 
no  way  out  but  divorce,"  she  concludes, 
and  promptly  makes  an  appointment 
with 
JUDGE  OLDHAM,  an  experienced  and 
able  lawyer. 
IT  
was  not  until  Alyn  entered  the 
office  of  Judge  Oldham  that  she 
began  to  have  some  trepidation. 
Judge  Oldham  was  a  plain-spoken 
old  gentleman,  but  he  would  be  kind 
to  her  because  he  had  been  a  friend 
of  her  father's.  His  office  was  still 
housed  by  the  old  Gladstone  Build- 
ing, whose  ornate  hallway  with  its 
wrought  iron  and  varnished  wood 
beckoned  her  from  an  ''eighteen 
ninety"  past.  Of  course,  it  was  well 
kept,  down  to  the  last  polished  brass 
doorknob,  but  it  was  in  striking  con- 
trast to  the  streamlined  offices  of 
Tory  Meade  and  his  contemporaries. 
Alyn  didn't  mind.  The  atmosphere 
seemed  to  lend  dignity  to  her  errand. 
The  secretary  had  her  hat  on 
when  Alyn  walked  in. 
'T  waited  to  go  out  until  you 
came,  Mrs.  Fordyce.  The  Judge 
wants  me  to  do  some  errands.  I 
hope  you  won't  mind.  Make  your- 
self comfortable.  Here  are  maga- 
zines. He  is  with  a  client  now,  but 
she  will  leave  soon." 
''Quite  all  right,"  murmured  Alyn. 
She  could  hear  the  Judge  talking 
and  a  woman's  voice  from  the  other 
room. 
But  Alyn  couldn't  settle  herself 
to  a  magazine.  She  arose  to  circle 
the  room;  she  gazed  absently  at  the 
restful  old  oil  paintings  that  decor- 
ated the  walls.  Gradually  the  words 
of  the  two  in  the  next  room  bore 
in  on  her  consciousness. 
"You  say  that  he  doesn't  drink  to 
excess?"  Judge  Oldham  was  saying. 
"  'Other  women'  is  not  your  prob- 
lem, Mrs.  Payne?  So  far  as  I  can  see, 
he  is  an  honest  and  honorable  man 
Page  475

476  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY,  1941 
who  pays  his  bills  and,  up  to  now,  could  John  have  eaten  breakfast  and 
has  provided  amply  for    his    wife,  left  her  nothing?  But  upon  entering 
judging  by  the  lovely  clothes  you  the  kitchen,  she  noticed  John  had 
are  wearing.     He  is  good  to  you;  not  eaten  all  the  food.    The  bacon 
his  only  sin  against  you  is  the  loss  of  was  stretched  neatly  in  the  pan,  and 
his  money."  the  eggs  were  on  the  buffet  shelf 
'Ton    don't    understand.    Judge,  of  the  gas  range.    Against  her  plate 
You  don't  see.  .  .  .  Think  what  Fve  a  note  had  been  propped.     ''Alyn, 
been  through.     The  mental  cruel-  darling,"  it  read,  '1  hate  so  badly 
ty.  .  .  .  "  to  put  you  through  all  this.  I  dearly 
'Tes,  but  I  do  see.  And  Fm  going  love  you  and  would  not  have  you 
to  tell  you  exactly  what  I  see.  I  see  hurt  for  the  world.  John." 
that  in  the  first  place  you  are  a  small  Alyn  crumpled  the  note  against 
child  who  has  not  been  spanked  her  face  and  wept.  Now,  everything 
since  you  were  as  young  phys-  would  be  all  right.  Why,  she  really 
ically  as  you  are  mentally.  Does  it  loved  John;  he  had  become  so  much 
occur  to  you  that  you  might  have  a  habit,  he  was  just  like  a  part  of 
been  inflicting  mental  cruelty  upon  herself.  How  fortunate  that  she  had 
him?  Don't  you  see  that  the  very  not  talked  to  Judge  Oldham  this 
first  time  in  his  life  when  he  needs  morning.  She  felt  sure  that  John 
his  wife  to  stand  by  him  and  face  would  relent  in  his  ridiculous  stand 
the  music  you  are  failing  him— add-  to  stay  with  his  position  with  Inter- 
ing  your  reproaches  to  those  of  the  mountain  Milton  Nurseries,  and 
rest  of  the  world?  Does  it  occur  to  they  would  go  on  as  before, 
you  to  wonder  what  he  has  been  When  John  came  home,  she  went 
through?  I  think  not.  I  believe  your  graciously  into  his  arms,  as  befitted 
mind  is  much  more  on  yourself  and  a  lady  who  had  won  her  way.  He 
clothes  and  the  opinion  of  your  searched  her  with  his  eyes.  '1  know 
neighbors,  than  upon  what  goes  on  you  are  starving,  honey.  No  lunch- 
in  your  husband's  heart  and  mind,  eon  invitation  today?"  he  asked, 
upon  whether  he  will  crack  under  ''Nonsense,"  she  assured  him, 
the  strain.  I  have  nothing  further  'Tve  eaten  less  when  I've  been  diet- 
to  say,  and  I  will  not  handle  your  ing.  I  didn't  want  breakfast,  so  I 
divorce."  ate  the  things  you  left  for  lunch." 
Alyn  waited  for  no  more.  Gather-  She  remembered  the  circumstance 
ing  her  purse  and  her  gloves,  she  with  guilt,  and  added  hastily,  ''And 
fled  before  the  door  would  open,  for  what  did  you  eat  for  breakfast?" 
every  word  that  the  Judge  had  said  '1  got  by,"  said  John  easily,  "I 
felt  like  a  whip  to  her  own  sensitivity  sold  something  I  didn't  need.  Some 
—so  much  so  that  she  entirely  for-  groceries  are  coming  up." 
got  the  presence  of  the  other  wom-  ''Oh,  John,"   said  Alyn,   "not  a 
an.  pawn  shop?" 
npHERE  was  nothing  to  do  but  go  "What  else?"  shrugged  John  calm- 
home— home  to  a  house  empty  ly.  ''I  don't  like  it  either.  It  will 
of  food.  Her  future  seemed  equally  not  happen  again,"  he  said  smihng, 
empty  as  she  made  her  way  back  to  but  Alyn  knew  it  was  a  command, 
the  place  she  loved  so  much.  How  He  had  used  the  same  tone  before.

THE  MERRY-GO-ROUND 
477 
the  summer  Josephine  and  Bea  had 
gone  to  Europe  and  wanted  her  to 
accompany  them.  John  had  refused 
her  quietly  and  kindly,  but  he  had 
not  budged  an  inch.  Alyn  had 
begged  and  pleaded,  used  all  her 
artifices,  but  she  had  not  gone  to 
Europe.  There  was  simply  that  one 
little  quality  in  John  that  would  not 
be  broken.  He  could  tell  her  not  to 
run  over  her  allotment,  and  she  knew 
she  must  not  run  over  it.  It  wasn't 
fair,  but  she  kept  resentment  out  of 
her  voice  as  she  said  easily,  ''All  of 
that  will  take  care  of  itself  when  you 
are  in  a  better-paying  position;  it 
isn't  that  I  spend  too  much,  John, 
it's  that  you  don't  make  enough." 
In  answer,  he  did  an  odd  thing.  He 
drew  her  to  the  divan,  sat  on  a  chair 
in  front  of  her,  and  looked  at  her 
long  and  earnestly. 
''Alyn,  I  won't  repeat  what  I  have 
already  said  about  my  present  work, 
though  it  is  no  less  true  now  than 
it  was  twenty-four  hours  ago.  Please 
believe  me  when  I  say  that  my  de- 
cision with  regard  to  my  work  is 
final.  It  is  more  vital  to  me  than 
life  itself.  It  is  just  as  vital  to  you, 
and  I  must  make  you  see  it." 
Her  momentary  annoyance  was 
interrupted  by  something  urgent  and 
compelling  in  his  gaze.  The  light 
from  the  west  window  frosted  his 
hair,  a  little  grey  at  the  temples,  and 
the  rim  of  his  glasses.  There  was  no 
denying,  John  was  a  distinguished 
looking  man,  neither  excessively  tall 
nor  fat  for  middle  life;  he  was  a 
substantial-looking  person,  a  typical 
business  man,  well  cared  for,  with 
the  controlled  features  of  an  execu- 
tive. His  eyes,  a  living  brown,  spoke 
to  her,  reaching  for  her  thoughts, 
searching  her  reactions,  reassuring 
her  fears.    Tliere  was  depth  in  them. 
a  sureness  she  had  not  noticed  be- 
fore. There  was  something  quietly 
indomitable,  something  thrilling 
about  John.    His  voice  went  on: 
"There  must  be  a  dominating  in- 
terest in  every  life,  Alyn.  Moreover, 
that  interest,  whatever  it  is,  must  be 
something  important.  There  must 
be  some  reason  for  its  being.  There 
must  be  some  justification  for  liv- 
ing." 
Alyn,  absorbed  in  a  new  apprecia- 
tion of  her  husband,  noted  the  rise 
and  fall  of  his  voice,  the  deep  timbre 
of  it;  she  heard  the  words  only  super- 
ficially. "I  am  no  exception,"  he 
continued,  "and  you  are  no  excep- 
tion. There  comes  a  time,  my  dear, 
when  we  are  no  longer  children,  but 
adults.  We  must  have  at  least  one 
thing  that  sustains  us,  or  we  crack 
up.  That  time  has  come  for  me, 
and  I  think  it  is  not  far  off  for  you." 
"But,  John!"  Alyn  protested,  "I 
am  interested;  I  have  been  interest- 
ed.   Getting  ahead  seems.  ..." 
"Yes,"  said  John  thoughtfully, 
"getting  ahead— progressing.  Pro- 
gression is  right,  darling,  but  we, 
you  and  I,  have  made  the  wrong 
application  of  it.  You  wanted  to 
excel  socially  and  financially,  and 
that  is  wrong.  It  is  wrong  because 
there  is  no  lasting  value  in  it,  and 
someday,  after  you  had  wasted  your 
brilliant  self  and  your  undoubted 
ability  on  it,  you  would  have  found 
that  out— too  late." 
This  was  really  intriguing,  she 
thought.  "I  had  no  idea  you  had 
such  serious  thoughts,"  she  said. 
"What  was  your  wrongly-applied 
part  of  it  then,  John?  I  am  sure  you 
did  not  share  that  one  with  me,  con- 
sidering the  difficulty  I  have  always 
had  dragging  you  to  social  affairs." 
"Mine  was  in  trying  to  make  you