Joseph Smith—Genius or Prophet By James L. Barker church. If the church organiza-. WP Ssrcch. SMITH organized a tion has little or no merit, he was perhaps a pretender. If it has great. Merit, he may have been a genius. If the strength of the organization is unprecedented and humanly inexplicable, it is plausible to assume that he was a prophet and received the plan from heaven. Church plans are either the invention of the founder and successive officers of the church, the product of scholarship, or a divine revelation. The original plan of the Christian Church was revealed, and must have been very wonderful. Certainly a plan originating with ~ Jesus would be better than any formulated by man. A church may be strong in two ways: it may be strong institutionally, tending to perpetuate itself indefinitely, and that without much regard to its suitability for the realization of desired ends; it may be a highly efficient machine for the attainment of the purposes or aims that called it into existence. The Catholics claim to have preserved and developed the original (revealed) plan of the Savior; the reformers tried to restore it (by scholarship); Joseph Smith said he received it by revelation. If the organization given by Joseph Smith, as I shall try to point out, explains and, in a sense, reconciles the conflicting theories of church government of Catholics, Lutherans, Calvinists, etc., harmonizes known historical facts, and possesses unexampled strength in the attainment of the ends of the Primitive Church, we may reasonably conclude that Joseph Smith's claim to revelation is true, because, as we shall see, it is highly improbable or impossible that he should have been able to invent so perfect a plan, and perhaps all will agree that it could not have been the product of his scholarship. "He (Joseph Smith) talked as from a strong mind utterly unenlightened by the teachings of history." What are the principal theories of church government and their chief merits and defects? A. J. Maclean (Protestant) in the Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics speaks of two ministries in the Primitive Church: an itinerant or traveling ministry: apostles and prophets, and evangelists or pastors ——terms apparently given to traveling missionaries; and a local ministry: bishops, presbyters (elders) and deacons. Speaking of the commission or authority of the Apostles, ("Apostle' means "one commissioned," ) Maclean says: "The point in dispute is whether they received their commission from our Lord direct, distinct from the Church, i. E., whether they derived their authority direct lFigures of the Past, Josiah Quincy, p. 377. Boston, 1883,  from Him immediately or from the people to whom they were to minister.' Among others, Catholics adopt the first view; and Lutherans, the second. In regard to the authority of the priesthood and the offices in it, I quote Funk (Catholic) and Mourret (Catholic) concerning the positions taken by the Catholic Church: "At the beginning, the direction of the Church was naturally left in the hands of the Apostles * * * all of the earlier heralds of the Gospel were also known as 'Evangelists.' From the earliest times we also find mention of bishops, presbyters, _ and deacons. The latter offices were destined to remain, whereas the former either disappeared with the end of the Apostolic Age (such being the case with the Evangelists). Or, like those of the 'prophets' and 'doctors' were merged in the permanent offices of bishop and presbyter." * * * "The Diaconate, or third class of clerics, * * *."2; "Other orders of clerics were introduced after the time of the Apostles." eK 3 "The organization of the hierarchy according to the Didache or Doctrine of the Twelve Apostles, 70-100 A. D. Presents an intermediate stage between that shown us in the Acts of the Apostles and that revealed to us by the apostolic Fathers. Apostles, prophets, doctors, episcopoipresbuteroi bishops-elders and deacons; such are the ministers who appear to us intrusted with distinct functions." "# # # As founders of the Church, subject to Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit, they-(the Apostles)are vested with special prerogatives, of which the principal ones are doctrinal infallibility, universal jurisdiction and the possibility of receiving a divine revelation for the direction of the universal Church, * * * 2A manual of Church History by Dr. F. X. Funk, Professor of Theology of the University of Tubingen, authorized translation from the 5th German Edition by Luigi Cappadelta, Kegan Paul, Trench Trubner & Co., Bradway House, Carter Lane, E. C., London. 3B, Herder, 17 South Broadway, St. Loius, Missouri. Vol. 1. 52-55. Their powers are limited by no territorial boundaries. * * * These extraordinary privileges will disappear with the persons of the twelve apostles. No one can any longer invoke them except the Roman Pontiff, and the era of public revelation will be closed with the death of the last one among them. As to the teaching and disciplinary authority that they exercise as pastors, it will last until the end of the world and will be transmitted by means of perpetual succession.' Thus, according to the Catholic theory of Government, the offices of the itinerant ministry—Apostles and prophets, and evangelists disappear, and their functions are entrusted in part to the local ministry —to the bishops. Concerning the function of the chief of the Apostles, Peter, Funk says: Christ 'also founded one only Church, and by constituting St. Peter chief of the Apostles He made him to be the outward and visible center of His Church. Nor can it be argued that this dispositon was only for the time of the Apostles, for it was equally necessary in later times; hence, Peter's prerogatives and duties must perforce have been transmitted to his successors." "And so indeed we find the Bishop of Rome standing at the head of the whole Church." * * * * * * "Another writer, Cyprain, calls this Church the ecclesia principalis, unde unitas sacerdotalis orta est (the principal church, where sacerdotal unity has had its orgin,) and even more clearly than Irenaeus, ascribes her chief rank to her having been established by St. Peter." * * * The importance of the primacy of the Church of Rome "consisted in maintaining intact the oneness of the Church; so long as this was not threatened by any departure from the true faith or from correct disHistoire Geneale de ll'Eglise par Fernand Mourret, professeur d'histoire aus seminaire de Saint-Sulpice, Les Origines Chretiennes, Nouvelle edition revue et corrigee Librairie Bloud et Gay, Paris. Pp. 86-92. JOSEPH SMITH—GENIUS OR PROPHET cipline, or by any other danger, the other Churches were free to act independently.'"® In the Catholic Church then, there remains of the primitive organization, bishops, priests and deacons. Of these, the bishop of Rome, the pope,® is supreme over the whole Church by reason of the "Church of Rome having been established by St. Peter.'" John Calvin did not agree with the Catholics that the bishop is the highest officer in the Church, one bishop, the bishop of Rome, being the chief of all Christianity, but he came to the conclusion that the presbyter (the elder) was the equa! Of the bishop. He was led to this conclusion by such historical considerations as are contained in the following quotations: "We do not translate these Greek terms episcopoi-presbuteroi—bishops-elders, because episcopus® overseer is not necessarily the person we call a bishop and the presbuteros can be a bishop. We have seen above that all the presbuteroi elders took part in the Council of Jerusalem, and the Acts of the Apostles, in relating the farewell of Saint Paul to the pastors of the Church at Ephesus, calls them now presbutori elders and then again episcopoi bishops, Acts 17-28." "The name Elder is of Jewish origin. It was the custom among the Jews to entrust the direction of each synagogue to a council of Elders." "The Apostles used this institution as a model in organizing their first communities. St. Paul recommends to Timothy the remembrance of the gift he had 5Funk, A Manual of Church History, pp. 59-61. 6 * * * "in early times the title of Pope was borne by all bishops."" Funk, Manual p. 61. 7Funk, Manual p. 61. 8*The word episcopos bishop was borrowed from the administrative institutions of the Greeks, who designated thus a civil officer intrusted with a task of surveillance or inspection." Mourret, Les Origenes Chretiennes, p. 90. 525 received by the laying on of hands of the Elders, and St. Peter admonished the Elders to feed the flock that is entrusted to them. This word (Elder) was not long in assuming a definite meaning. When, after the death of the Twelve, each particular Church was placed under the direction of a single head; when the institution of the Elder's council had disappeared, and the word bishop had taken its present meaning, the name Elder presbyter no longer designated any thing more than a simple priest * * *.' * * * the authority of the bishop emerges with more relief. Soon the bishop will have absorbed in his pastoral function all of the functions of the apostle, of ythe prophet and of tthe doctor.' The article 'Ministry' in the 14th edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica says: "We find St. Paul appointing in the churches which he founded officers named 'bishops' or 'elders,' titles which are synonomous." Calvin and Knox 'considered the titles synonomous. They did not believe in a church of bishops, priests and deacons, but in a church of priests and deacons only, because, as they said, a priest (elder) could baptize, administer the sacrament and preside over a Church. When Knox organized the Church in Scotland he called it the Presbyterian Church or the "Elders" Church. Luther accepted neither the Calvinistic 'view of the equality of the elder nor the Catholic theory of the supremacy of the bishop in the constitution of the Church. In speaking of the laity, did not I Peter 2:9 say: "But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, etc.," and did not the Apostle John in Revelations 1:6 say: "And hath made us *Histoire Generale de IlEglise 'par Fernand Mourret, professeur d'histoire au seminaire de Saint-Sulpice, Les Origines Chretiennes, Neuvelle edition revue et corrigee, Librairie Bloud et Gay, Paris. Pp. 86-92.  kings and priests unto God and his Father," and "at the end of the century Irenaeus'? Said that 'all the righteous possess the _ sacerdotal rank' and that 'all the disciples of the Lord are Levites and priests'."'? It was easy for Luther to conclude that all Christians possessed the priesthood from birth as a gift of God: "All Christians are truly of priestly rank (geistlichen Standes), and there is among them no difference other than that of office, as Paul says I Cor. 12, we are all one body, yet each member has its work, in order that it may serve the others. * * * Since then we are all priests, no one should put himself forward, and assume without our consent and choice, to do that which we all have equal authority to do."?° In the Primitive Church it is possible that no one wrote a treatise on the officers of the Church; incidental mention of this or that officer is found in the New Testament and other early Christian writings, but the exact constitution of the primitive ministry is not known. Bishops, presbuteroi (elders), and deacons formed the local ministry, but just what were their functions? How did a bishop differ from an elder (priest)? Etc. That the Catholic is sincere in his acceptance of the constitution of the Church with bishops, priests and deacons; that Calvin, trying to arrive at a knowledge of the constitution of the Church, was sincere in his belief that the elder was in no way inferior to the bishop; that Luther sincerely believed all Chris- 10Treanaeus, bishop of {! Lyons, was martyred in 200 A. D. 11A, J. Maclean in Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, Laity. 12Luther, An den christlichen Adel deutscher Nation und von des christlichen Standes Besserung (1520) tians to be priests, no one perhaps has any serious reason to doubt. W HAT light is thrown on these theories of Church government by the organization given by Joseph Smith? The new organization is helpful in understanding the historical origin of the systems existing in 1830 when Joseph Smith began the work of organizing the Church; and statements insufficiently understood concerning early offcers in the Church cease to be puzzling. As in the Primitive Church, there is today an itinerant and a traveling ministry in the Church. As the Apostles directed both ministries in Apostolic times,!* the First Presidency and the Twelve are at the head of both ministries now. Facilities for travel and communication were not generally good in the Apostolic Age, and probably the Stake organization with its presidency and Twelve High Councillors was not known then. If someone today, not a member of our Church, should visit a meeting in London or any other branch in the missionary field, when Elder Widtsoe, or another member of the 18The Apostles "are vested with special prerogatives, of which the principal ones are doctrinal infallibility, universal jurisdiction and the possibility of receiving a divine revelation for the direction of the universal church * * *, Their powers are limited by no territorial boundaries." - Mourret, Les Origines Chretiennes, p. 92. "As long as the Twelve Apostles lived, they were the chiefs of the presbuterot elders in the Churches founded by them, and soon after the period of which the Didache speaks, the council of the presbuteroi-episcopoi elders-bishops having disappeared nearly everywhere leaving its place to a single episcopos bishop it is this name which naturally prevailed as the designation of the head of a particular church." Mourret, Les Origenes Chretiennes, p. 89. JOSEPH SMITH—GENIUS OR PROPHET Twelve, was present, he would say: "An Apostle is in authority here." So while in Rome or Antioch, Peter™* undoubtedly directed the Church there, just as, in as far as means of communication would permit, he directed the affairs of the Church everywhere. When persecution had removed the Twelve—and their extermination was comparatively an easy matter as they were not numerous like elders and bishops, and were more prominent—the bishop (or elder) had no superior in the direction of the Church, and the (Catholic, Greek, Church of England) assumption that the bishops are the successors of the Apostles perhaps is easy to make. Eventually, the claims of superiority on the part of different bishops gave rise to the Roman Catholic and the Greek Churches, and the view that no bishop possessed primacy over the others found: expression in the Church of England. If someone should visit a branch of the Church presided over by an elder, he would say: "An elder administers the branch, baptizing, blessing the sacrament, and doing everything that a bishop can do: elder and bishop are perhaps two names for the same office, in any case, a bishop is in no way superior to an elder." In the light of the 14°Did Peter reside at that time (at the time of the conflict between Peter and Paul) at Antioch? Tradition gives him the titles of bishop of this city * * * In reality the Apostles were the bishops of all the Churches they had founded; their authority over these churches may be called an episcopacy, but we must not consider this episcopacy organized like that of their successors, in the sense which we attach to this word; but when Peter, the supreme head of the apostolic college and of the entire Church arrived in this 'metropolis of the Orient,' it acclaimed him as a Pastor." Foot-note, Les Origenes Chretiennes, p. 79. 527 New Testament writings, etc., Calvin (and others since his time) have come to this conclusion. If now, in one of the organized wards of the Church, the visitor should be present during a standing roll call of the priesthood, he would perhaps say with Luther: "Everybody in the Church has the priesthood," though he might not overlook ordination, like Luther, and say they were born with it; as a matter of fact, all the worthy are ordained today to some office in the priesthood. We have already seen according to Mourret,** that "the presbuteros (elder) can be a bishop" and, according to the article 'Ministry' quoted from the Encyclopedia Britannica," 'bishops' or 'elders' (are) titles which are synonomous." Today, as I have just said an elder exercises, in branches of the Church, all the functions of the bishop. It is very likely that small branches of the Primitive Church were presided over by an elder and larger branches by a bishop, one being regarded as more or less temporary and the other as permanent. However, today in a ward where there is a bishop, an elder, though he has the requisite priesthood, can not exercise it and baptize, etc., except as directed by the bishop. Mourret, speaking of the Church towards the end of the first century says "Many signs would seem to indicate, without one being able to be very affirmative on the point, that the Elders had, towards the period of which the Didache speaks, power of the same order as the bishop, for example, an Elder could ordain priests, without, however, '15Mourret, Les Origines Chretiennes, Foot-note, p. 86. 528 possessing the bishop's administrative powers.''° A. J. Maclean*" says that '"Perhaps presbyter expressed the rank and bishop the function," and "we must remark that by presiding presbyters, he must, being himself a bishop in the later sense of the word, mean bishops." Today, properly directed, an elder may preside, be a presiding elder and exercise all the functions of a bishop, or without being a presiding elder, he may, if so directed, baptize, administer to the sacrament, etc. In Acts 20:17, 20:28, the same individuals are called "elders" and overseers (bishops). This also seems to be true of Titus 1:5, 6, 7. In I Peter 5:1, Peter calls himself an elder, and in II John 1 and III John 1, John calls himself likewise an elder. Today it is understood that, in becoming a bishop or one of the twelve, an elder does not cease to be an elder. A_ bishop 16Les Origines Chretiennes, p. 86. 17Article 'Ministry' in the Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE working in the missionary field is usually called an elder, and apostles are usually called elders and refer to themselves as elders. This exact correspondence between the organization given by Joseph Smith and the organization of the Primitive Church can hardly be due to chance, and it would be due to chance if the organization were his invention. If the correspondence is due to scholarship, it is astounding. Luther was educated for the law and the ministry, was instructor in philosophy and doctor of theology, enjoyed access to books, leisure, and a fairly long life. Calvin was trained for the Church, studied Latin, logic, philosophy, law, wrote the Institutes of the Christian Religion, and enjoyed time for tranquil study. Joseph Smith, a frontier farmer's boy, was without access to many books or learning, lived a life of turmoil, and died a martyr at 38. Calvin and Luther failed to restore the primitive organization, Joseph Smith restored it. By Scholarship? No. By revelation.