Let us be up to date and use the best methods in our class work,  To Our Class Leaders ACH year some teachers read over the first lesson in a course and decide that it is beyond their capacity. They go around saying "I can't do it." The feeling of their inability to handle the subject grows as they continually iterate to themselves and to others "I can't do it." How much more helpful it would be to say, "I can and I will." If they would reread the lesson and the references again and again and ponder well over the subject matter light would illumine the dark places. Then, too, they would find that subsequent lessons in the course would get easier to present. Ways of developing the subject would come to them and the joy of mastery would be theirs. Ever Learning "Growth is the supreme law of mental life: Intellectual stagnation is the beginning of the end, even though that end be long delayed. Already dissolution has begun, whether its processes be swift or slow." HERE was a time when learning was thought to be the prerogative of youth, now by 'scientific investigation it is shown that the adult is quite as capable of learning as is the child—indeed many learn quicker and more effectively. Professor Thorndike of Teachers College, New York, proved by experiments that in learning new muscular coordinations adults learned in a few score of hours what children required two years to master. Thinkers now see clearly that learning, growing, developing, is a continuous process. To the Latter-day Saints the vision is given that man's obligation is to learn here and now, in the hereafter and through all eternity. Wonderful opportunities are offered to all Church members and to any others who will avail themselves of the privilege to study, learn, discuss. The different Auxiliaries offer courses of studies that may well be compared with similar courses given by colleges and universities. All are urged to secure the lessons, peruse them, do the reading suggested, and then come to the associations and discuss what has been read and thought through. Mortal Faith By Zentha Gartf Our dear friends leave us, one by one, And leave us in the darkness, as the sinking of the sun. The dear ones pass, we mourn each one, Never a death but we would have undone. And still we know that when our rest we've won, We will stand together to watch the rising of the sun And He will count us, one by one.