The Dawn of Hope for Saint and Sinner in the Life to Come By J. H. Paul IT. Is Eternal Punishment Enlil AN we reconcile, or rather, C how do we reconcile, the thesis of the first chapter— that the Most High is the everlasting friend of man—with those scriptures which seem to teach that the vast majority of mankind are doomed to eternal misery? For certain oft-quoted texts have been almost universally so interpreted. We are asked by old-time theologians to accept as the fixed decree of Omnipotent Power that a large portion of the human race are destined, possibly predestined, to a condition of everlasting future retribution and degradation. And our question is, Can the loving and merciful Father of our spirits, or can the Savior of the souls of men, though the chief characteristics of their nature are love and kindness, yet doom to endless perdition and irretrievable woe the greater part of the children of heaven? These essays, and the scriptures, maintain that such a conclusion is truly impossible. The Myth of Eternal Torture. O the Latter-day Saints, salvation is destined for all men, except, possibly, the few indicated as "the sons of perdition," about whose fate we know almost nothing. It is clear that some degree of salvation awaits every member of the human race. But it will be unique to show, and this material will be especially useful among missionaries in the field, that within our own century of progress many wise men have been driven to the same general conclusions that for 100 years have been among the best established doctrines of the Church. A few of these will be quoted, using, as far as brevity will permit, their exact words, and summarizing faithfully wherever their expositions are too lengthy for entire inclusion here. It has now been fifty years since C. S. Henry, D. D., published a small volume entitled "The Endless Future of the Human Race" (D. Appleton & Co., 1879), in which he answers the question, "What does the New Testament teach concerning the duration of future punishment?' He quotes freely from a little book entitled, "Is Eternal Punishment Endless?" said to have been written by a Dr. Wilson. The main part of his volume, a letter to a friend, was written several months before Canon Farrar's "Sermons on Eternal Hope" were preached, and before the article in the North American Review on "The Doctrine of Eternal Punishment" was published. These were among the first to break away from the ''orthodox" doctrine that the fate of myriads of the human race —the great bulk, indeed, of mankind—will be one of never-ending sin and suffering in the world beyond the grave. What Is Everlasting Punishment? D® HENRY begins with the celebrated text from Matthew THE DAWN OF HOPE 24:46, which the English translators have thus rendered: "These shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal." The intention of the translators is clear: They thought that our Lord intended to declare positively the endless duration of future punishment. Is their translation correct? In the original the words here rendered "everlasting" and "eternal" are denoted by the single Greek word aeonian; and the passage reads thus: "These shall go away into zonian punishment: but the righteous into zonian life." Greek scholars say that aeonian is an ambiguous word, used in a great variety of meanings in the Old and in the New Testament. "The adjective aeonian, neither by itself nor by what it derives from its noun aeon, gives any testimony to the endlessness of future punishment. Futurity being represented in the New Testament as a succession of aeons, 'zonian punishment'—is of indefinite duration; all that 'zeonian' gives with any certainty is that the punishment belongs to or occurs in the zon or zons to come." Penalties Limited to "Aeons" R. PUSEY, celebrated for his Biblical learning, says that the word aeonian can not rightly be translated as absolutely everlasting. Dr. Taylor Lewis, equally eminent, says: "Aeonian, from its adjective form, may perhaps mean an existence, a duration, measured by aeons or worlds, just as our present world or #on is measured by years or centuries. But it would be more in accordance with the plainest etymological usage to give it simply the sense of aeonic, denoting "the world to come." 'These shall go B65 away into the punishment (the restraint, imprisonment) of the world to come, and these into the life of the world to come.' "' Other Greek scholars, Dr. Henry says, can be cited to the same effect; and he concludes by showing that aeonian life signifies a certain kind of life, rather than its duration—a spiritual state, a disposition, or character of the soul. He finds that. The word is so used in many passages; "He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me... Hath eonian life" (John 5:24). "This is zonian life, that they may know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3). These and similar passages denote a spiritual state, a kind of life and not length of life. Scriptures Do Not Say "Endless" perapes are ways of using Greek to denote endlessness, just as there are in English. Why, then, did not our Lord choose the word that would denote endless punishment, instead of using, as he uniformly does, the ambiguous, indeterminate word aeonian? "T am bold to say, that it was because our Lord intended not to make a decisive declaration as to the duration of future punishment. Whatever his reasons were for leaving the question undecided... One thing is certain, namely, that they give me a perfect right to deny that he has decisively taught the endless duration of future punishment, and leave me at liberty to entertain whatever opinion on that point I find good ground in reason for adopting."— Henry. In like manner it is found that the text in Mark 3:29, "hath never forgiveness" has the word "never" substituted for "not" in the original, which reads, "hath not forgiveness for the zon, but is involved in an zonian sin." So, Matt. 12:32 reads.  "Tt shall not be forgiven him either in this zon or in the zon to be." Forgiveness in the Next World LE: is remarkable that St. Augustine himself derived from this text the idea that in the coming zon (age) some would obtain forgiveness who were' unforgiven in the present.... The Scriptures speak of futurity as running its course through 'eons of zons.' What, then, of him who' finds no forgiveness in the zon that is to be? We cannot assume that he will never find it in any succeeding zeon." Having shown that the Scriptures do not teach endless punishment, but clearly indicate future forgiveness for sinners, Dr. Henry proceeds to give the basis of his hope in the final restoration of all men, whether saint or sinner, to goodness and blessedness. The basis is that God is love, and love is devotion; and since, in perfect love no selfishness can exist, and "since God is righteousness and therefore incapable of doing anything wrong, he is incapable also of wronging a single human being." Proof from the Fatherhood of God Moreover, "'we are the offspring of God; we owe our existence to his fatherly love." Formed in God's image, we were created free and rational like him, and destined to become like him. 'Tt lies in the very necessity of his essential goodness that he should desire us to realize this supreme end of our being'—the "dearest wish of his heart that each of his children should, in the measure of the capacity of each, become like him. "Our sinfulness is revolting to him, but it does not destroy his love.... To his tender love for mankind we owe the method of salvation disclosed in the gospel—a salvation from sin, from its inward, deadly power—a salvation that only God could provide, by sending his son into the world there to live, to suffer, and to die. "Why this particular method of intervention in our behalf was chosen I cannot say... Nor how it is that Christ's coming, living, suffering, and dying effected the salvation of the human race." A Ransom for All WwW. Only know that "God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son that the world through him might be saved." "What a monstrous doctrine it is," continues Dr. Henry, "which says God sent his Son into the world that a part only of the world might be saved, leaving the rest, in countless millions, to a foreordained fate of helpless, hopeless, endless perdition! What a _ doctrine which says that Christ laid down his life not for every man but for a certain arbitrarily selected number! In the gospel as I read it I find disclosed a provision for the salvation of all men, even though the knowledge of the method be not now imparted to all.... And so it is said that 'in every nation he that feareth God and worketh righteousness'—according to his light— fis accepted of him.' And whatever knowledge it is necessary for him to have, shall some time—in God's good time—be given; and what is not given in this world will, I can not doubt, be given in the world to come." Gospel in the World to Come "What reason—compatible with God's character—can be imagined why he should not carry the dispensation of the gospel into the world to come? Why should he not continue to do there what he is now doing here?... Why, I say, should he stop trying to rescue sinful souls from the dominion and misery of sin, merely because they have passed from this world into the world beyond? "Certainly the event which we cali death cannot make any change in God's loving and merciful disposition toward men.. Nor can that event be conceived as working any such change in their spiritual nature as to make them no longer subjects for his divine mercy, or to put them beyond the reach of his reclaiming efforts. | | | THE DAWN OF HOPE "The paramount object of punishment is the reformation of the sinner—the great object of all the severe and painful discipline to which God often subjects his creatures here in this world, not for his own pleasure but for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness; and this, I persuade myself, will be the great object of the chastisements of the world to come." ~ Where the Many Mansions Be "There are many mansions in heaven, we are told, and I doubt not there are also many mansions in hell. Every dweller there will be put into the one he ought to be put -into—the one that is best fitted for him; and will have to undergo there the sort and degree of purifying discipline which is necessary, fit, and most for his good. "Why is it that our Lord has made such a disclosure of the sufferings to be endured in the world to come? Was it not to let us see that being wicked is far worse, since it excludes us from God, than being punished for our wickedness —more dreadful than any outward punishment it may entail? So that we may more strongly resolve to gain deliverance from sin in this life than from its punishment in the life beyond the grave. "This I know, that God is not cruel. He doth not willingly afflict or grieve the children of men.'.... It pains him to give us pain, even as it pains the good earthly father to punish his son for his son's own good. He no more takes delight in the pain he inflicts than the tender-hearted surgeon does when he cuts off his patient's limb to save his patient's life. The Pain That Purities "The awful language in which our Lord (in Mark 11:42-48) with six times reiterated warning bids us beware of the folly of incurring eonian sufferings in the life to come" has been mistakenly construed as declaring not only the endlessness of those sufferings, but as inflictions of the divine wrath—of the worm that dieth not, and the fire that is not quenched—a horrible notion that our Lord's language does not justify. "Gehenna and its worm and fire—to which Christ makes allusion—were a beneficent agency, consuming what would otherwise have made the air of Jerusalem unfit for man to breathe." this doctrine. 537 The language therefore suggests and sanctions the idea that these sufferings are a needful purifying discipline inflicted by the hand of the all-merciful Father. The Human Heart Bears Witness The human heart, the conscience of mankind, testifies the truth of Since men are to live forever, they will live, not in despair and misery, but in hope, happiness, and progression! It is half a century or more since the poet Mackay wrote: Tell me, my secret soul, O tell me, hope and faith, Is there no resting place From sorrow, sin, and death? Some lone and pleasant dell, Some valley in the West, Where, free from grief and pain, The wearied soul may rest? Faith, hope, and love, Best boons to mortals given, Waved their bright wings And answered, "Yes; in heaven." Analytic writers appeal to human sentiment and feeling to discover the righteousness of courses of action and the destiny of the human soul, and think highly of that method of finding the truths of character and the probable future of man. "Go to your bosom, knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know''—is an appeal to the highest human authority for those who accept the view that man is the offspring of deity and therefore destined to return to his home in heaven. Those who do not share this view may be able to treat lightly the witness of the heart as to the truth of certain ideas relating to immortality; but those who hold that man is the child of God are strongly inclined to accept the demands of  the spirit of man as indicative of the reality of the things demanded. Must We Wait? Must man wait, as Mackay feit he must, till the next life in order to find the assurance of the soul that all are seeking, and that, apparently, not many seem to find? Salvation here and now, that is, the assurance of it, is what recent writers often contend for; and no doubt it will be the feeling of many that these writers make too much of certain promptings and hopes. Elsewhere, (in the "Dream of Youth") I have tried to show that our desires exert a dominating in- "fluence upon the course of our lives, and to such a degree as really to shape our future. Though this is a fact so remarkable that the present writer sometimes hestitates to maintain it, yet that is what is meant —a simple fact of experience and observation backed by the authority of the wisest men. Saved By Hope A remarkable declaration of this fact was made centuries ago, by the wisdom which is not of man. The apostle of intellect (Paul) after laboring to show what is meant by the doctrine, "by grace ye are saved," at length told the people this wonderful truth: "We are saved by hope." And if it be said that mere hope cannot save any one, the fact is proved in Romans 8:34-36, And since the human yearning is so influential that it does, to a high degree, save us here and now, we can well believe that it will finally have its way hereafter, since it has eternities in which to finish its work. Modernize With the New, Clean Convenient Fuel GAS Salt Lake City and other Utah cities and towns now served with Natural Gas and those which will be served with Natural Gas have a bright future ahead of them—bright in the sense of brilliant sky-lines—healthy inhabitants—and_ that pleasant feeling of MODERNIZATION. Natural Gas is modernization. It means new, improved ways of heating your homes, cooking your foods, heating water quickly and cheaply——automatic gas, refrigeration—conveniences at a low cost that will surprise you! Call at the Natural Gas office nearest your home and ask for details and estimates—there is no charge. UTAH GAS & COKE CO. Serving Salt Lake City OGDEN GAS CO. Serving Ogden WASATCH GAS CO. Serving Kaysville, Layton, Farmington, Bountiful, Centerville, Magna, Tooele, Garfield, Murray, Midvale, Sandy, Morgan.