Notes from our Secretary Afield. By Amy Brown Lyman. It was a credit to the Relief Society to have three of its Board members, who were accompanied by two daughters of President Joseph F. Smith, in attendance at the Home Economics Convention at Ithaca, New York. In addition to going to Ithaca, the Board members were also appointed to visit branches of the Relief Society in the Eastern, Northern, Central and Western States Missions. The party consisted of Emma Empey, Janette A. Hyde and the writer, members of the General Board, and the Misses Emily and Edith Smith. From Ithaca we went directly to New York City where we received a hearty welcome from President and Mrs. Monson of the Eastern States Mission, and Miss Margaret Edward who is in charge of the Relief Society work there. After securing comfortable rooms near Mission headquarters, arrangements were made for holding meetings in the following branches: New York, BRIDGE ACROSS STREAM IN WATKINS GLEN Mrs. Lyman Mrs. Empey Emily Smith Edith Smith Mrs. Hyde 
 Brooklyn, Baltimore. Philadelphia, New Haven, Conn. Lynn, ; Mass. and Toronto, Canada. ; Mrs. Bertha Eccles Wright is President of the New York Society, and Mrs. Isabel Wingrave, of the Brooklyn Branch. Mrs. Eccles Wright presided at the Union meeting of these branches. There were present, in addition to the Relief Society officers and members, President Monson, Secretary John I. Davis — and the visiting sisters from Salt Lake City twenty-two in all. At the officers' meeting both Societies were reported, but at the regular meeting the entire time was given to President Monson and the visiting sisters from Salt Lake City. Both the New York and Brooklyn Branches are holding weekly meetings, and are following, as nearly as possible, the lessons as outlined by the General Board, particular interest being manifested in the genealogical lessons and the studies on the Women of the Bible. On account of the scattered condition of the members of these large cities, it is impossible to make a feature of the teachers' work the officers, however, manage to keep in close, personal touch with all the members of the Society. One very interesting item reported, was that the sisters are working on a carpet to be used in the new Church that is to be built in Brooklyn. The little hall where the Latter-day Saints hold service in Baltimore is located just across the street from the Johns Hopkins Hospital, and is very comfortably furnished. The meeting was a combination of Sunday School and Relief Society with forty-two in attendance. Elder Elihu Call presided and after the Sacramental Service, which included a short talk by a very bright Sunday School girl of twelve years, the remainder of the time was occupied by the visitors of the General Board. The Sabbath day was very peaceful, and a spirit of love, union and good fellowship pervaded the assembly so that in spite of the intense heat, the interest and attention. were exceptionally good. Miss Louie O. Thomas, a very capable and charming young lady missionary from Lehi, Utah, presided at the officers' meeting. She has for some time acted as president of the Baltimore branch. Associated with Miss Thomas were the Misses Irene Case and Ella Gibbs, also from Utah. Miss Thomas reported, and it was also very evident that the Baltimore Society is in good condition, the officers and members all showing deep devotion and active interest in the work. Weekly meetings are held and the prescribed outlines followed in the work. While in Baltimore we visited the great Catholic Cathedral which is especially noted because it is here that Cardinal Gibbons has held service for so many years. He still conducts the services occasionally. At Philadelphia our meeting was held in the Latter-day Saints NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 549 hall and was well attended, there being in all thirty-four present, and members, several elders and some including, besides officers investigators. There was a beautiful spirit manifested in the meeting at the close of which we shook hands with all present and had a very interesting informal hour. Miss Edward who came from New York to be in attendance was the presiding officer. Miss Lena Schmidt of Philadelphia is the local president of the branch. We visited Independence hall, the Betsey Ross home where the first American flag was made by Mrs. Ross, and the Old City Cemetery where Franklin lies buried beneath a large stone slab. His grave is very modest and plain, similar to that of President Brigham Young. We also visited the Old Christ Church and sat in the pew which was used by the Washingtons during their residence in Philadelphia and where Lafayette sat on his occasional visits here. While the other members of the party were at Brooklyn and Philadelphia, Sister Empey went alone to New Haven. She was met at the station by Elder Lawrence Sloan, son of Thomas and Edna Wells Sloan of Salt Lake City, and was taken to luncheon at the home of Mrs. Carrie Deleware, President of the Relief Society. At the meeting, Sister Empey found two missionary girls. Miss Phelps from Arizona and Miss Norina Moyes of Salt Lake City. The President reported that the New Haven Relief Society, recently organized, had made only a beginning, and she rejoiced exceedingly in the fact that they were the recipients so soon of a visit from a member of the General Board. Her interest in Relief Society work began with her visit to Ogden, Utah, only a short time ago. She reported her Society as greatly interested in genealogical work. Sister Empey gave instructions on the outlines and general plans of the organization. Several of the sisters present also addressed the meeting. A girl, only sixteen years old — — Miss Laura Deleware is the capable Secretary and Treasurer of this Society. Mrs. Scott, at whose home the meeting was held, is a "Mormon" of the olden times. She was baptized at Kingston, Ontario, Canada, in 1879, by William Seegmiller of Richfield, who came to Kingston at the request of her father-in-law, a member of the Church. For twenty years she did not see an Elder or anyone belonging to the Church, excepting this father-in-law. She then learned that a branch of the Church was located in New York City. After great effort and unusual sacrifice she succeeded in uniting herself with the New York mission. She spoke very lovingly of the Woman's Exponent, which she subscribed for at one time, and which for many years afterward, came to her complimentary from the editor — our own dear President Wells. We left New York for Boston by boat July 11. After the 
 intense heat in Baltimore and New York we fully appreciated a cool, moonlight night on the ocean. We landed in Boston Harbor the following morning and hurried on to Lynn, Massachusetts, to fill our Relief Society appointment. The ride on the steam cars by the seaside would have been very pleasant had it not been for the intense heat. This was the hottest day of our whole trip. At 549 Essex Street we found Elders Harold Barnes of the Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake, F. D. McGregor of Beaver, and S. F. Harper of Oakley, Idaho. After a very refreshing repast, served by these dear good boys we went to the home of Mrs. Jennie Hayden where our meeting was to be held. Two Missionary girls from Utah, Miss Annie C. Peterson, President of the Society, and Elizabeth Elder were in attendance. This little parlor meeting, although small, was very interesting and enjoyable. At its close our charming hostess served delicious ice cream, cake, and lemonade. Without knowing how intensely hot the weather was and can be in Lynn, nobody can possibly understand how we appreciated those cooling refreshments. Old Salem, where Nathaniel Hawthorne was born and reared and where he began his career as an American author is located near Lynn. We saw the house where he was born, the old custom house where he wrote the "Scarlet Letter," and many other places of historic interest, including the house where Witches were sentenced and the hill where many of them were put to death. We spent two days in Boston, Lexington and Concord, giving practically all of one day to the New England Genealogical Library. We were intensely interested there, and could have spent weeks with profit and pleasure, browsing among the old books and manuscripts. Our next stop was at South Royalton, Vermont, where we visited the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith, which is nearby. It has been only a few years since the Church purchased the old Smith Farm, and erected a beautiful monument in memory of the Prophet, and the cottage which stands on the exact spot where he was born. Brother and Sister F. L. Brown entertained us while here, taking us to all the places of particular interest. From South Royalton, we went to Montreal, and up the St. Lawrence River to Toronto, Canada. Elders Sumsion, Coons, and Sanders met us at the dock. In Montreal and Toronto, there was every evidence that Canada is at war. We saw hundreds of wounded soldiers, who had returned from the battle fields abroad, and in Toronto, were 50,000 who had been training for months, and who were ready to leave for the front. The locks all the way up the St. Lawrence River were guarded very carefully by English soldiers. Several NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 551 attempts have been made to blow them up since the beginning of the war in Europe. Our meeting in Toronto was held at the home of Mrs. Ida Yager, Counselor to President Armena Marr. The other counselor is Marian Ford. The war surroundings made our meeting rather serious, but there was a sweet spirit of love and sympathy that gave comfort and peace to all present. After explaining Relief Society work and the problems connected with it to the Sisters and Elders present, we had a very interesting talk by Sister H. Westmancote, a devoted Church member who joined the Church in early days in England. Sister Westmancote emigrated to Canada many years ago and is probably the oldest living Pioneer "Mormon'' resident of Toronto. When the Relief Society was organized she was made President. She recently resigned and has been replaced by Sister Marr. One of the young members of this Society informed us that her husband has been in France since the beginning of the war. He has been in many battles but she expressed the belief that the faith and prayers of her small children and herself will be answered and that he will be brought back to them safely. We also learned from another member. Sister Yager, that she has three stalwart young nephews fighting on the German side and that their regiment has recently been ordered into the firing line. At Palmyra, New York, we were met by Brother Willard Bean who is in charge of the Smith farm located about six miles from this place. We visited the store in Palmyra in the upper rooms of which the first edition of the Book of Mormon was printed. We also had the privilege of meeting Mr. Pliny T. Sexton, the gentleman who owns the Hill Cumorah and who is very kind and gracious to all visitors who are interested in this historic spot. Mr. Sexton has the first copy of the Book of Mormon that came off the press of Mr. E. B. Grandin, owner of the old printing office. He bought this copy of Mr. Gilbert who operated the press and he prizes it very highly. The copy is unbound, but is placed in a glass frame for preservation. Mr. Sexton is generally regarded as the first citizen of Palmyra. He is a lawyer of repute, Chancellor of the University of New York, and a man who is known in all the country 'round for his philanthropic work. We were particularly interested to learn that Mr. Sexton introduced the first bill in the New York Legislature providing for University extension work. It was also the first bill of the kind to be introduced and passed in America. He is thus in a way the founder of University extension work. After this delightful visit, we were taken by auto out to the Hill Cumorah, and to the Smith farm. The home built by 
 the Smith Family in 1824 still stands on the old farm, and is in a fairly good state of preservation. The Bean family occupies the home, and has charge of the farm. Mrs. Bean served us with a very delicious dinner made up entirely of products from the farm. Brother Bean took us all about the place, and over to the — sacred grove one of the most beautiful spots that can be imagined. Some of the trees stand 200 feet high. I think we were more impressed with this grove than with any other spot connected with the visit, for it was here that Joseph Smith, as a boy, made his first appeal to Heaven. This completed our visit to the Eastern States Mission. Praise and commendation should be given President Monson and Miss Edward for the earnest and faithful efforts they have put forth to establish so successfully in such a short time the work of the Relief Society in this mission. The splendid foundation work done last year by our own General Board member, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune in this mission should also be mentioned in this connection. Our next stop was at Kirtland, Ohio, where we visited the Kirtland temple, now owned by the reorganized Church. It is much larger than we expected it to be. The view from the top of the temple is one of magnificence, as all the country around LOGAN SQUARE RELIEF SOCIETY, CHICAGO NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 553 is exceedingly picturesque. We saw the old "Mormon" cemetery. It is still the only cemetery in Kirtland, and is good-looking and well kept. We saw many of the original "Mormon" homes and the spots where others stood. The house owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in which his son Joseph was born, is still standing. It is now used for a store. Across from the temple, Sydney Rigdon's home is also standing. President Ellsworth met us at the station in Chicago and during our stay in his mission he did everything possible to make our visit pleasant. On Sunday the 23rd we attended three meetings, the morning and evening sessions were of a general character, but the afternoon meeting was a joint meeting of the three Chicago branches of the Relief Society — Logan Square, Roseland, and University. In the absence of Sister Mary Smith Ellsworth who has charge of the Relief Society in the Northern States, President Ellsworth presided at this meeting. There were about one hundred in attendance and notwithstanding the heat and humidity, the audience was evidently very much interested in the proceedings. The mission was reported by Miss Redd, a missionary girl from Canada, and a daughter of Mrs. Varona Redd, Secretary of the Taylor stake. The Logan Square was reported by President Emma Cregor the Roseland Branch, by the Secretary, Mrs. Eva; Devries and the Chicago, by Miss Sterling. ; President Ellsworth gave a very inspiring and encouraging address, in which he commended the members for their devotion to the work and expressed his great appreciation for the service done by the Relief Society in the Northern States Mission. The General Board visitors addressed the meeting on the history and organization of the Relief Society, its activities and course of study. From the reports given, we learned that the various branches of this Mission are in splendid working condition. They have taken up the prescribed work in the outlines, excepting the lessons in Home Economics. In place of this course, they have substituted specially prepared lessons on the subject of Prayer. They have considered the Lord's Prayer. Blessings on the Sacrament, the Benefits of Administration in Times of Sickness. Importance of Family Prayer, and the Blessing on the Food, etc., etc. The Mission has made a special effort along the lines of general work. Since January 1, 1916. the combined branches have sent 787 names to the Temple, placed 60 Temple records and 87 family records. Some of the young members of the Chicago branches are working in the Newbury Genealogical Library, regularly, for the purpose of collecting and arranging data in their family records. 
 A very interesting feature of the work in this Mission has been the activity of the members in distributing literature. It was suggested to them by Sister Ellsworth, that all the members of the Society, after reading tracts, magazines, and books, pass them on to their friends, in order that as many as possible might read them. Since the 1st of January, the Relief Society members have given out 3,611 magazines and books. Other interesting features of this report, for the six months, are: Paid for charity $ 426.19 Hours spent in charity work 33.93 Visits to sick... - 1,622 Gospel conversations 3,073 Assistance to missionaries 323.60 The music at this conference was especially good. At the morning session, it was furnished by the choir from Milwaukee, which was led by a very talented and capable German brother. Many other special numbers, including a zither solo by a Relief Society sister, were also much appreciated. It was a great disappointment to the Relief Society members, and to the visitors from the General Board that the President — Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth was too ill to attend the conference. Mrs. Ellsworth has been so energetic in her labors that her zeal has exceeded her strength, and she has been forced to give up, temporarily, everything connected with her work. We all feel sure, however, that with care and rest she will make a good recovery, and be able to continue her efforts in her chosen work. In spite of her illness. Sister Ellsworth insisted that we take dinner at the Mission House, which we enjoyed very much. We also had a short visit with her. July 24th, Sister Hyde and I visited the Milwaukee Relief Society, leaving Sister Empey and the Smith girls in Chicago, where they attended special exercises which were given in Commemoration of Utah Pioneer day. The boat ride across beautiful Lake Michigan was a feature of the trip. Brother N. C. Poulsen of Richfield, and two companions took us to the beautiful little L. D. S. Church where our services were held. It is a very cozy building with a full basement containing a kitchen and other rooms which are used by the elders as sleeping apartments. There were sixty-nine present at our meeting including a number of very bright boys and girls. In Milwaukee there are two Relief Societies, one English, the other German. The President of the English Society is Mrs. Emily Wittie, and of the German, Mrs. Margaret Schmidt. Both these sisters are energetic, capable, and enthusiastic workers, and NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 555 have succeeded in bringing their societies up to a high standard, as the reports indicated. In the English Society, there are 15 members enrolled, and in the German, 12. The members of the English Society have, in the last six months, distributed 117 books and tracts, and those in the German Society, 460, making in all 577. Weekly meetings are held in both branches. Miss Jessie Wintch, a missionary girl from Manti, has been very helpful to the German Society, as she speaks their language fluently. These sisters regret very much that she will soon be compelled to leave them to return to Utah. The secretary of the German Relief Society, a very energetic young woman, informed us that she had learned to speak the English language by associating with Relief Society officers and workers. At the close of the meeting, the sisters served delicious refreshments and a very interesting social hour was spent. During our stay in Chicago, we visited the Newbury Genealogical Library which is well supplied with a variety of books. The information is so accessible that the amateur genealogist is soon able to make headway in research work. On the way from Chicago to Independence, we stopped at Nauvoo and St. Louis. Our visit to Nauvoo was most interesting and instructive. We rode across the Mississippi River from Montrose to Nauvoo on a little ferry boat, which is used to transfer hay, coal, live-stock, freight and passengers. We proceeded at once to the Oriental Hotel, where the proprietor — Mr. Wm. C. Reimbold— received us very courteously, and spent a great deal of the forenoon in showing us manuscripts, relics, and articles of furniture which had belonged to the old "Mormon" settlers. Among these things we saw the andirons and crane that belonged to President Brigham Young, dishes that had belonged to different families, and furniture that was owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith. In a bedroom was a four-poster walnut bed, a mahogany dresser and washstand. In the parlor were several pieces including a rocking chair and a parlor table. All of these pieces were in excellent condition. They were handmade and once belonged to the Prophet. In a ride about Nauvoo we saw the old temple site and many homes of the early "Mormons" which are very commodious, good looking and fairly well preserved. Those of Presidents Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and Wilford Woodruff seemed to be in very good condition. Naturally we were especially interested in the old Masonic Hall where the organization of the Relief Society took place in 1842. We pictured this gathering of only eighteen members in the upper room of this building and wondered if they, or even the 
 founder, himself, comprehended the magnitude of the movement thus begun in the interest of women. In the afternoon of this day we visited Carthage which is twelve miles from Nauvoo. The old jail looked somber and grey. We saw the bullet hole in the door and the blood stain on the floor, and were sick at heart when we thought of the terrible tragedy which occurred there so many years ago. INDEPENDENCE, MO., RELIEF SOCIETY Our next stop was at St. Louis where we were met by Brother S. O. Bennion, of Independence, Mo., the genial president of the Central States Mission. Fifty-two people were present at the evening meeting we held here, twenty-one of whom were Relief Society members. We met a great many missionary boys and girls, who were all earnest and devoted workers. The Relief Society members in St. Louis are united and enthusiastic in their work. Mrs. Fannie L. Thurman is the President and Mrs. Mabel Du Pont, secretary. After the service we spent half an hour visiting, and left on the 10:30 p. m. train for Kansas City. We all regretted the absence of Sister Bennion who was in Utah, during our visit to the Central States. As president of the Relief Societies in this Mission she has made a great success of her work. NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 557 President Bennion arranged a most delightful automobile ride for us from Kansas City to Independence, and at the mission house he gave us full possession and a most hearty welcome. Only those who know President Bennion can appreciate his kindly, generous nature, and his genial good humor. We visited many places of historic interest in the neighborhood of Independence, including Richmond and Liberty. At Richmond we visited the old "Mormon" cemetery, where the Church has recently erected a monument in memory of Oliver Cowdery, who is buried there. We saw the home of David Whitmer, his grave in the City Cemetery, also the site where the old Richmond jail stood. It was in this jail that the Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum Smith were imprisoned all one winter. We also visited the site of the Liberty Jail, the basement of which remains as it was at the time Joseph and Hyrum Smith and Parley P. Pratt were imprisoned in it. They spent many months in this dark and dingy cellar place, and it was here an attempt was made to feed them human flesh. The upper story of this building has been torn down, and a comparatively modern dwelling house built on the old foundation. The residents of the house very kindly allowed us to enter the basement and view the premises. On Saturday afternoon, at the call of President Bennion, the officers of the Relief Society visited us at the Mission house for the purpose of discussing the details of Relief Society work. On Sunday forenoon we attended the Latter-day Saints Sunday School, visited the Reorganized Church and also the Hedrickite Church. The building in which the Hedrickite Church holds services is located on the old "Mormon" Temple block. In the afternoon, we held a Relief Society meeting in the Independence Chapel, which was a conjoint session of the Independence and Kansas City branches. Brother Bennion presided at this meeting, and spoke very enthusiastically on the blessings and benefits of Relief Society work in general, and particularly in the mission field. The remainder of the time was given to the visitors of the General Board. The president of the Independence Relief Society is Sister Annie Tuckfield, and of the Kansas City branch, Mrs. Annie Cook. There are several sisters here who were former residents of Utah, and who are, therefore, well equipped for assisting in carrying on the work. Among them are Sister McRae and Sister Thurman —the latter a daughter of the late Bishop Evans, of Lehi, Utah. Our final stop was at Denver, Colorado, where we were met by President and Mrs. Herrick of the Western States Mission. We were driven to the Mission House, where we were heartily 
 welcomed, and where we partook of a delicious luncheon, and held a very enjoyable meeting. Because of the fact that Sister Herrick has recently been appointed President of the Relief Society in the Western States Mission, she has resigned as President of the Denver Society, and on the day of our visit, the Denver branch was reorganized with the following officers President: Mrs. Nellie B. Foot 1st Counselor, Louie A. Call 2nd Counselor, Miss Ann Snow; Secretary; Miss Winnifred P. Hill; Treasurer, Mrs. Ella T. Smith; Chorister. Miss Pauline Christensen. DENVER RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. Herrick presided at the meeting and gave a report of the Mission. We then heard from the new officers, who expressed themselves as deeply interested in the work. Instructions were given to the new officers, on the objects and aims of the Society, and on the work as outlined at headquarters. I cannot close without expressing my admiration for and appreciation of our missionaries, both the young men and the young women. They seemed to us to stand in a class by themselves as earnest, conscientious, fearless, and unselfish workers for the benefit of mankind. If the fathers and mothers of these young people could see them as we did. in the active discharge of their duties, they would feel proud and well repaid for all the sacrifices and struggles it takes to support them in this work, and to be separated from them. Home Economics Agronomy Roberts Hall Dairy THE CENTRAL GROUP OF BUILDINGS OF THE NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE.