The Prince of Ur CONCLUDED. Homespun. The morning sun was rising through a dense fog of smoke and gloom upon a weird and devasting sight. The city of Ur lay in partial ruins the Ziggarut itself was a smoking pile of; confusion and disaster. None in the encampment of the Prince of Ur, far down below the city had slept during the fateful hours. The old Petesi Terah sat in his tent door in the dim morning light, too stricken with grief and remorse to rally his own facilities, much less to assume direction of the coming pilgrimage. The spot chosen for the encampment was in the lovely grove of date-palms which belonged to the Princess Sarai in her own right. The pilgrims were too far away to hear the groans and cries which rent the heavens from every quarter of the stricken city, but they could begin to see, when they turned their eyes thitherward the cloud of smoke and rising dust lit now and then with smouldering flames as a result of the tremendous shock which had destroyed the temple of Ur. Hundreds of frightened and watching people moved in and out of the one city gate left standing, trying to remove the injured and dying from the debris of the city into the cooling shade of surroimding groves and plantations. To all of the horrors and suffering the Petesi was deaf. His own soul was crushed by the certainty of his share in the terrible calamity sent by the Divine Avenger upon the apostate city of Ur. Abram on his arrival from the Ziggarut was greeted with solemn rejoicing, and he at once assumed direction of the removal of the whole encampment. He approached his father's presence with the deference due an oriental father. "How rests the heart of my gracious father upon the altar of his soul? Let not thy face be hidden from thy loyal children. Arise, O, my father and set thy face to the north. I have this day mapped out our course of travel. The camels are loaded the herds and the flocks will soon be upon their way while thine and Sarai's tent remaineth for immediate packing. Ellasar shall be our first resting place. From there by easy journey we shall remove to Erech, going next to Calneh and then beyond, far beyond to Borsippa. There we rest as thou knowest in sight of Babylon itself. We shall not linger, please God, near this great and wicked city. Passing it by we shall also dwell shortly at Cutha. Sippara next will claim our caravan. Nehor would linger in Haron and so we may, for Padan-Aram hath many 
 pastures where our flocks and herds may rest in peace. Dost approve this plan?" "Thy journeyings shall be taken according to thy will," said the broken old man. "My spirit is stricken and I am desolate. The Lord hath cast off the altar, He hath abhorred the sanctuary of the heathen He hath stretched out a line He hath not with; ; drawn his hand from destroying. Therefore He hath made the rampart and the wall to lament. They languish together. Her gates are sunk into the ground. He hath destroyed and broken her bars. The king and her princes bite the dust. My eyes do fail with tears my bowels are troubled because the children; swoon in the streets of the city. His prophets hath seen vain and foolish things for thee, O Ur of Chaldee. He hath discovered thine iniquity and hath not turned r.way thy destruction. All that pass by clap their hands at thee. They hiss and wag their hea'ls at the beautiful city. They hiss and gnash their teeth. They say This is the day that we looked for. The Lord: hath fulfilled His word. He hath thrown down and hath not pitied This is the lament of the prince and power of Ur.' The old man's voice pierced the very marrow of Prince Abram and the rough sheiks who bowed in the earth and threw dust upon their heads, groaning in bitter responses to the deep intonations of the old Petesi. As the old man ceased his mourning Abram arose and looking southward besought his aged father to cast his eyes over the preparations that were making. All of the substance of the camp was heaped high upon the backs of hundreds of kneeling camels. Slaves stool by their animals ready to prod them forward the moment the word was given to move on. Around the camels were grouped flocks of sheep and goats, while the asses stood stolid and immovable ber.eath the towering forms of the camels. The multitude was so large that 400 trained soldiers upon their dancing Arabian ponies waited to take up the line of march at the head of the column. Abram had cast aside his scholarly raiment and had donned the usual sheik's cloak of brilliant scarlet, his loose handkerchief bound by a fillet of rope about his head while he held his spear in his hand. "I am content," sighed the old Petesi, "to leave this desolate city and to accept thy leadership into the distant Canaan where God hath promised thee inheritance." Abram left the Petesi under the charge of Lot while he h-mself hurried towards the tent of Sarai. Here the princess, clothed in the thin shirt of the Arab woman over which she had laid a coarse striped cloak, had stood all night directing the labors of her hundreds of servingwomen. About her beautiful head she had thrown a common black kerchief which she had twisted loosely about her temples with a rope of camel's hair. Most of THE PRINCE OF UR. 571 her jewels were put away, but her neck was still encircled with a gorgeous Assyrian necklace which had flashing jewels, with coral and sacred cylinders of engraved scriptures all intertwined in one great dazzling array. Earrings of gold ornamented with turquoise hung from beneath the kerchief and she looked as indeed she was prepared to be, a genuine chill of the desert, ready to take her place beside her fleeing lord clothed in the simple raiment of the Bedouin queen. Between the center poles of her huge tent lay the large goat hair sacks of rice, corn, barley, and the other household stufifs from which the great encampment would take their early meal before the sun had traveled an hour in heated glory on the eastern horizon. Her gorgeous carpets and cushions were piled outside the Around her, squatting on the tent awaiting final distribution. ground or hurrying to and fro were the hundreds of handmaidens cleaning the wide caldrons, gathering up the iron plates upon which they had baked their bread over the ashes, and some were still shaking the skins, suspended from the stakes and filled with milk which would thus churn the butter for the coming march. Every supply had passed through Sarai's own hands that night and she knew exactly the amount that would feed her multitude from day to day. As Abram approached the tent and asked for his bride, her tiring maiden pointed to the tent whose door was now let down. The prince lifted the curtain and stood within the inclosure. His heart stopped beating as he saw her bending over her last bale of stuffs to be sure of their fastenings. Instantly she arose and with a -sobbing cry flung herself upon his bosom. — "Alive Alive!" she sobbed without restraint. Then "thou! art here with us, and O Abram, what may I do, what can I say in gratitude and love to thee and to our great Creator, Yehweh, for thy deliverance and safety.” Abram's soul was moved by the touching simplicity and humility of this resplendent woman who had voluntarily cast off lier luxurious trappings and clothed herself in the coarse, common garb of a princess of the plains. No greater gift than her willing choice could be offered. He touched with quivering hands, the flowing black kerchief which hid the glory of her hair and pressed her arms close to her side, clad as they w'ere in the rough raiment which she had chosen. "Behold, thou art fair, my love. Behold, thou art fair. Thou hast dove's eyes, my love. Thy cheeks are comely with rows.of jewels; thy neck with chains of gold and a temple of myrrh is my well beloved unto me. Our bed shall be green. The 
 beams of our house shall be cedar and the rafters of fir.As the lilyamong the thorns, so is my love among the daughters." Without the tent there arose the cry of the plainsmen who had now come to complete the loading of the camels and to strike the great tent of the Princess Sarai. Abram drew her without and greeted his men with affectionate candor. Out of the chaos he had soon brought order, out of confusion had come adjustment. Each man knew his place and every tent-pin would be accounted for. The beast which he had chosen for Sarai to ride was a young white camel of the utmost swiftness and gentleness. In the palanquin where she was to sit he had placed perfumes and flowers. As they stood examining the completeness of Abram's arrangement, Lot rode by upon his mottled charger. "Art thou so busied, kinsman, with thine own affairs that thou canst find no time to see my own lovely bride?" As Lot spoke Irit peeped beneath his arm, for he had partially concealed her behind him and she cried out saucily and maliciously "Thou hast not the happiness in this life, Abram, nor all shaltv thou take to thyselfall the glory for the next. Behold, Lot is also a captain and a leader." "Nay, kinswoman. Lot is the better man and give me but his friendship and I shall ask nothing more of him nor of thee." The jealous witch who cuddled closer to Lot at this sally, still found time and voice to purr contentedly "All the valley of the Euphrates is before both thee and him. It is only the future that may tell who shall rule and who shall obey." "Nay, Irit, restrain thy petty speech," said Lot softly over lits shoulder, "and put forth all thy charm to soothe the mourners for there is sorrow all about us, and although our own hearts are filled with solemn joy just here and now, we cannot cross words or allow bantering sallies on such a barren field as this. The Frince Abram is my leader and my staff. On him I lean and so shalt thou,if thou leanest on me." Whilst this parley was going on Sarai stood beside her camel looking back at the smoking ruins of the beautiful city of Ur, with hands tensely clasped and tears streaming downi her sad face. "O Iscah, Iscah, where is thy soul this day? Pleasure for an hour, and then darkness forever. Be merciful, great Creator of heaven and earth to thy erring daughter and grant her swift!" repentance even in thy paradise, where her soul hath fled Two hours later the great caravan was on its way, winding across the dusty plain, slowly, because of the flocks and herds and the women and children, some of whom were walking in the THE PRINCE OF UR. 573 ankle-deep soil of the heavily traveled paths. There was little rejoicing on this outward trip, for nearly all of these travelers had left some cherished loved one behind in the smoking city of Ur. awaiting burial in that common funeral pyre. The Prince Abram rode for hours silent and heavy with emotion at the head of his great cavalcade. The hundreds and thousands of men and women, herds and cattle, camels and dogs trailing solemnly after, in mute sympathy, respected his solemn meditation. “I am a Syrian, and a stranger. I am now but a wanderer. I have seen violence and strife in the city. O, that I had wings like a dove for then would I fly away and be at rest. As a bird that wandereth from his nest, so is a man that wandereth from his place. Yet, shall I wander far ofif and remain in the wilderness. Be merciful unto me, oh, God, be merciful unto me, for my soul draweth to thee, yea, in the shadow of thy wings will 1 make my refuge, will I make my refuge. Be thou exalted. O God. above the heavens. Let thy glory be above all the earth. Remember thy servant O Lord, and forget not the hosts that are with him. Be thou exalted above the hills!" And thus the household of Terah, Petesi of Ur, with Abram. Prince of Ur, took up their journeyings. And the promise was to Abraham and to his seed after him! For of all the earth he alone remembered the Lord God, and him only did he serve THE END. SEMI-ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society will be held on Wednesday and Thursday, October 4 and 5, 1916. Two public sessions will be held on Wednesady, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. All who are interested in Relief Society work are invited to be in attendance at these two sessions. On Thursday, October 5. two meetings will be held for officers, in the Auditorium on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. Detailed problems connected with Relief Society work will be discussed. One session will be devoted to a teachers' convention.All officers and official represenlatives are expected to be in attendance at these meetings. Emmeline B. Wells, President. Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor. JuLiNA L. Smith, Second Counselor. — Mothers in Israel, Autobiographical Sketch of Mary Ann Stearns Winters. [We continue this month the charming child-classic written by one who not only passed through the beautiful and terrible scenes in Kirtland, Nauvoo, and Winter Quarters, but who also remembered keenly her childlike impressions of those striking events. We present some pictures of the author's birth-place in Bethel, Maine, but her word pictures of conditions in Nauvoo, given in this and the following articles, scarcely need embellishment. We hope our readers will enjoy this recital with us. Editor.] returning from ENGLAND. January 1, 1843, we were on board the ship going from the mouth of the Mississippi up to New Orleans. The weather was delightful — oranges were on the trees, cotton was still in the fields. The captain of the pilot boat invited our captain, and Mr. Pratt and family, to take New Year's dinner with them on the pilot. Mother not being able to go, and the little boys and Oliver not quite recovered from the measles, Mr. Pratt, Aunt Olive and myselfwere all that could accept the invitation. — We had a fine dinner a great treat to us after being on the ship ten weeks — and a sailing vessel at that, as no steamer had ever crossed the ocean at that time. They treated us very cordially —sent nice fruits to mother and the children, with fine sliced apples with sugar and brandy. This was declined at first, but had to be taken in order not to ofifend our entertainers. Our journey up the river was a very pleasing experience. The rolling of the billows was a thing of the past and we glided smoothly — on past forests, orchards and plantations an ever-varying scene of loveliness and grandeur. The negroes were everywhere present, and I imagined the people had turned dark skinned during our absence. In a few days we arrived at New Orleans and were there treated with the same southern cordiality by the officers of the shipping company that we had received on the pilot. A steam— — boat the Goddess of Liberty was chartered and the two hundred and fifty Saints went on board, and a week later were landed at St. Louis. When we had proceeded as far as Chester, in the southern part of Illinois, our family landed there and took up our abode for the winter, as our enemies had threatened to arrest P)rother Pratt as soon as he should step on Missouri soil. MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 575 We rented part of the warehouse at the landing, stored our goods in the front part and partitioned off a place at the back for house-keeping. A family by the name of Francis occupied the — upper story, and they had four little girls two of them about my age, and the company made the time pass more pleasantly with me than it otherwise would have done.-
 The porch is the only outside change except removing of shutters my age. Their mother was a cultured, southern lady and the little girls were very nice companions, the one two and a half years old was a nice playmate for mv little sister Olivia of the same age. The little boys. Parley and Nathan, had plenty of room to run and play in the large building, and we made ourselves as comfortable as possible under the circumstances. We had plenty of provisions and everything necessary for our comfort in that line. Brother Pratt had bought sugar and molasses by the hogshead at New Orleans, as also other groceries, to take up to Nauvoo, and many a time have my thoughts reverted to those days as I afterwards lived here in Utah, without a taste of sweets for months at a time, and I longingly remember that good quality of brown sugar at 3c per pound. One night there was quite a strong shock of earthquake that rattled and shook the building and woke us all up, and I never forgot the queerness of the feeling it gave me, being the first I had ever experienced. One day I went to the store, and one of the clerks asked me all sorts of questions about "Mormonism," until I felt very indignant, and finally he wanted to know if he should marry my moth
 er's sister(Aunt Olive Frost, who lived with us) if that would make him second apostle. This was too much, and I turned and left the place without deigning to answer him. He was very friendly, though, and ofifered to hire a place for Brother 'Pratt to preach, and was only trying to be funny, as I afterwards found out. Brother Pratt went to visit a branch of the Church about fifteen miles south of Chester and brought back with him a young man by the name of Ichabod Brazier, who lived with us while Brother Pratt took a journey to Nauvoo. We had the two Shetland ponies that had crossed the sea with us, and Brother Pratt took them and went by land not deeming it safe to take a boat, on account of his enemies being on the watch for him. This young man Ichabod belonged to the Church, was about nineteen years of age, the son of a widow. He went up to Nauvoo with us, and while on a visit to his mother the next fall, was drowned while bathing in the Mississippi river, near his home. Going up to Nauvoo, Brother Pratt purchased a building lot of Squire Wells, situated one block north of the temple. The view from that point was a grand one. We could see over into — Iowa and for miles up and down the river as well as the lower part of the city that was built on the flats that extended down to its banks. Many a time, with companions, I have stood on the brow of the hill and watched the sun sink behind the Iowa hills, in the far distant west, little dreaming that I should follow its course until I, with the rest of the pilgrims, found a home in the top of the Rocky Mountains, so many, many miles distant, over the trackless plains and burning sands. Brother Pratt left the little ponies at Nauvoo and purchased a larger animal, returning to Chester after an absence of three weeks, bringing joyful tidings of our friends, and the Saints at that place. Two years of peace and prosperity had wrought great — — changesmany good buildings had been erected the temple walls were up to the arch of the basement windows, the font was in place with a temporary covering, and the hearts of the Saints rejoiced exceedingly in the presence of their Prophet and Patriarch to cheer them on in the work of salvation. The Saints that we had been acquainted with in England and that had immigrated the year before sent us words of love and cheer and we could hardly wait the appointed time to again take up our journey to the promised land, the then abiding place of the Saints. But near the last of February we took steamer for St. Louis, and upon our arrival there were transferred to the little steamboat. Maid of Iowa, to continue the journey to Nauvoo, but the weather was so cold and so much ice in the river that we were detained there four weeks. Brother Lorenzo Snow's company of Saints on board the Amaranth were stationed just ahead of us, MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. S77 and had to remain the same length of time. A little boy of his company about eight years old fell overboard and was drowned. I attended the funeral and was much impressed by the accident. By the last of March, the ice breaking up, the two steamers started up the river. Sometimes one would be ahead and then the other, our little boat being much hindered by the large cakes of ice. We were two weeks making the journey, and on the 5th of April I had a little sister born who was named Susan for our Grandma Frost. The 6th being my own birthday I regretted it very much that they could not have come together. Brother Snow, with his company, landed at Nauvoo in the forenoon of April 12, and our company in the afternoon of the same day. And oh the anxiety of the Saints to see the Prophet Joseph! Smith Some thought they would be able to discern him in a multitude, and they all longed to behold him and grasp his hand. Brothers Joseph and Hyrum and a large company of people were at the landing to meet us. Brother Pratt had introduced him to the company, and a general hand-shaking followed with the friends who had come to take them to their various homes and destinations. Then Brother Joseph came on the boat and into the cabin where our family were. After cordial greetings, he took a seat and taking the little boys. Parley and Nathan, upon his knees, seemed much affected. Brother Pratt remarking, "We took away three children and have brought back five." Then Brother Joseph said, "Well, well. Brother Parley, you have returned bringing your sheaves with you," the tears streaming down his face. Brother Pratt, seeing the general emotion this caused, said, in a tender, jesting fashion, "Why, Brother Smith, if you feel so bad about our coming home, I guess we will have to go back again," tears of joy filling his own eyes. This broke the spell smiles returned, and joy unbounded filled every heart. It was indeed a time of rejoicing, that two boat loads of Saints had arrived in one day. Brother Joseph arose saying, "Come, Brother Parley, bring your folks right up to my house it is only a little way, and you can be more comfortable after your long journey." My mother was placed in the big chair, and Brother Hodge, with others of Brother Joseph's bodyguard, carried her up to the Mansion, Brother Pratt carrying the baby — the rest of us following along, listening to all that Brother Joseph had to say. Some of our friends insisted on having part of our family, so Aunt Olive and we children were taken up to Mother Sessions', where she nursed us up to good health again the little ones that were not quite over the effects of the measles— and I had chills and fever while on the boat. It was while located on the boat at St. Louis that I saw the little book published by Martha Brotherton on polygamy. She with her family had visited at our house before they left England, ; 
 and being acquainted with her made me very curious to know what she had to say about it, so I took the book, went into my berth, drew the curtains, and proceeded to investigate. I had always been taught to believe in the Bible, and when I came to the place where it quoted Abraham, Jacob and others as having more OLD RED SCHOOL HOUSE NEAR STEARNS HOME Still used. Mount Will as background. than one wife, I decided that the principle must be true, coming from that source— and also, though right for others, not for me — was my firm conclusion. And though thus steeled against it for myself, I always honored and respected those living in it. A house was soon rented across the street from our lot, and we moved in joyfully, watching the building of our new home. The barn was put up first, a room in the basement plastered and fitted up with shelves, the goods brought from New Orleans put in, and soon a thriving grocery business established, the people bringing butter, corn meal and eggs to exchange for sugar, molasses, dried fruit, etc., and the people working on the buildings drawing their supplies from that source. Our family had not had any corn meal during the two years we were in England, and we were just feasting on it in any way it might be cooked, but the poor English Saints, who had never been used to eating it, fared badly with it they did not relish it; it did not seem to nourish them, and made many of them very sick, and some, no doubt, died on account of the great change in their habits of living. And right here I desire to bear testimony of the faithfulness of the most of those dear English Saints that MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 579 journeyed up to Nauvoo at that time. They murmured not even to the laying down of their lives, in the gospel they loved so well and knew to be true, and many of them proved their integrity through long lives of usefulness here in the "Valleys of the Mountains," and have left a numerous posterity to follow on in their footsteps. I wish it were possible for me to name them, one by one, and tell of their good works in the Kingdom of God. I have looked upon many of them as of ''a faith-promoting series," for I never would see one of them to talk to him be it ever so short a time, but what I felt strengthened and encouraged, and I feel sure that when our Heavenly Father makes up his jewels these Saints will help to enlarge the setting; and oh, that I might be permitted to have a place among them in the great hereafter A! few were faint-hearted and turned back, but remained in America, and still holding on to the first principles of the gospel, but too weak to stand the trials our Father gave to prove them. In the latter part of June our joy was increased by the arrival of Grandfather and Grandmother Frost, with their two daughters, Sophronia and Huldah, from their home in the state of Maine. They were all in the Church and rejoiced in the prosperity of Zion. Grandfather, being a carpenter, soon went to work on the house, which was of brick with white stone basecaps and window sills, and four-foot square-stone pillars at the front of the store, supporting a stone cornice at the first story. There were twenty-seven large windows in the building, and the cost when finished was $3,500. laying floors, making the stairs and before the roof was quite finished we commenced moving in and kept going from one part to the other until it was all completed. There was a deep cellar under the whole house, and before the floors were all laid my little brother Nathan, while walking over the joists, stepped on the end of a board when it tipped up and he fell through into the cellar, breaking his leg between the knee and hip. Dr. Weld set the bone, and it was three weeks before he could have the box taken off. We were much grieved by the accident to our darling, and after the first day we did all we could to amuse him that the time might not seem so long and the confinement to the house so tedious. He was very patient and he loved to have Grandma Frost hold him and sing to him when he got able to sit up. One day, before he was able to walk, he crawled across the street to get where grandma was. on his hands and knees, and when grandpa saw him and what he had done he shed tears over him and told him next time to call him and he would carry him where he wanted to go. Soon after our arrival at Nauvoo, I attended a school taught by Miss Alvira Wheeler (she was one of the members of the first Relief Society) at the house of Brother Orson Spencer, and it was there I first became acquainted with his daughters Ellen and 
 Aurelia — one a little older and the other a little younger than myself, and my love for them was like that of a sister. I enjoyed their companionship very much and our friendship grew stronger as the years rolled on. We passed through the trying times of those days together, we counseled together, we comforted each other. And I can number these two as the tried and trusted, lifelong friends of my childhood's beginning. Their house faced the center of the public square and ours was close by, and many a time we have stood and watched the Nauvoo Legion drilling there, and our hearts swelled with pride at their noble appearance, and when the muffled drum would sound in the silent hours of night, how our souls would sink with dread at the ominous warning of trouble to our beloved city. But children's hearts are light, and we enjoyed our schools, our meetings, and our play times, little dreaming what the future had in store for either of us. One of our most enjoyable pastimes was to visit the Temple and run round on its walls, until it grew so high that it was considered dangerous, and we were prohibited from that pleasure. On the fourth of July, 1843, there was an excursion, on the little Maid of Iowa, up to Burlington, Iowa, and my father and mother and Aunt Olive went on the pleasure trip. Mother and Aunt Olive were dressed alike and were standing a little distance off, when Brother Joseph said to Brother Parley, "It is the will of the Lord that those two sisters should never be parted" (meaning that they should both belong to one man). This being the next year after he received the revelation on Celestial Marriage, MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 581 is an added testimony to the truth of that principle. I heard Brother Pratt tell it on his return home, and my mother also told me about it, and remembered it all her life, and frequently spoke about it. Later in July there was another excursion on the little boat — this time down the river to Quincy, Illinois. Mother could not go on account of little Natie's leg being broken Aunt Olive was; also detained at home, so I was permitted to go with Pa, Uncle Orson, and Aunt Sarah Pratt. We took dinner with the Mayor of Quincy, he having invited Brothers Joseph and Hyrum and others of our people whom he had become acquainted with during their sojourn in that city, and entertained them at his house, but I think it would be more proper to say that Brother Joseph did the entertaining, as he talked, and the rest listened with the greatest attention. After a very enjoyable time, as all seemed to testify, we started on our return journey. Our progress was slow, the little boat being too small to stem the rapids successfully, and it was nearly morning before we landed at Nauvoo. Early in the evening, being tired and sleepy, my Pa took me on his lap to rest. He was sitting on the deck opposite Brother Joseph, so near that their knees almost touched. Brother Joseph was preaching, and numbers crowded around, listening. He stopped and gently raised my feet upon his knees, and when I would have drawn them away he said, "No, let me hold them you will rest better." ; I was soon sound asleep, and the next I knew, it was morning, and we had landed at Nauvoo. (to be continued.) PRESIDENT WELLS IN IDAHO. President Emmeline B. Wells is, at the present time, in Wallace, Idaho, visiting at the home of her daughter Mrs. Wm. C. Woods. She was accompanied on this little vacation trip by her granddaughter Miss Katherine Cannon. President Wells has been very active in connection with stake