Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Salt Lake City now has the largest police force in its history. It still remains for it to show whether it is the best. Fourteen nations formally and fiercely at war in Europe leaves little to be desired, in a peaceful way, in present conditions there. Foodstuffs are steadily rising in price in the United States. Now is a time of preparedness in other than big guns and warships. Italy at last has seized the important Austrian stronghold of Gorizia, after sanguinary battles, and thus has opened the way for taking over a large slice of present Austrian territory. Prohibition of the traffic in intoxicating liquors has been agreed upon by the political parties in Utah now the issue is; whether the law to be passed will be effective or otherwise. Infantile paralysis has passed for the time being as a scourge in New York, but no discovery of a remedy or means to prevent its recurrence has been heralded as yet. Hailstones an inch and a quarter in diameter fell in a storm at American Fork, Utah, on Aug. 6. The damage to crops in the vicinity is estimated at $10,000; yet the storm covered only a limited area. National expenditures in the United States, in 1916, are shown by Congressional appropriations to be fully $500,000,000 more than in 1915. The Texas coast, for a distance of 150 miles, was visited by a fierce gale on August 18, several lives being lost, and $2,000,000 damage done to property. "Immodest dancing" has been condemned by the National Dancing Masters' Association. Young men and girls with a claim to respectability should have condemned it long since, from motives of self-protection, if nothing more. The Bakers' Convention at Salt Lake City raised the bread price to 10 cents a loaf. Home baking is somewhat cheaper in that the wife does her own labor, otherwise the difference in cost is not great. CURRENT EVENTS. 583, Romania having declared war on the side of the Entente allies, thus cuts off a route of communication between the Teutonic nations and Turkey the latter, thus isolated, draws steadily; nearer to dismemberment. France's war leader, General Joffre, says the tide of war has turned against the Teutonic nations. Yet the German western battle-front is a high and rocky coast for the turned tide to engulf. Herbert Asquith, premier of Great Britain, foreshadowed equal suffrage to men and women in that nation, in a statement recently made to parliament. His prediction aroused much criticism among those staid and stolid Britishers who still regard wives as among their goods and chattels. Sir Roger Casement, who was the chief figure in the recent attempted German expedition to Ireland, was hanged on August 3 as a traitor to Great Britain. No doubt his scheme of invading Ireland was the cause of hundreds of deaths in connection with the recent Sinn Fein rebellion in the Emerald Isle. Turkish efforts to seize the Suez canal have met with another failure in a disastrous defeat of the Turks by the British forces. This event, with the rising of the Arabs against Turkish rule, holds the Ottoman power well back to the southern corner of Palestine. Leon H. Radmall, of Pleasant Grove, with the Utah battery at Nogales, Arizona, was killed on August 18, by the kick of a mule, while he was on duty. This is the first fatality in the battery since it went to the Mexican front. Turkey has refused the United States request to permit the starving Syrians to be fed by neutral nations, which would send food into Asia Minor the claim being made that there is plenty; of food there. The claim, however, has been disproved. By such actions as this, Turkey is rapidly filling its cup of wrath. Coercion of Congress into passing an eight-hour-day-for-ten-hours-pay law is the net result thus far of the Labor Day strike called by the four brotherhood unions of trainmen on the steam railways. The law does not go into effect until after the November election, when its constitutionality will be contested by the railway owners. Russia's advance into Austro-Hungary continues, while the czar's forces more than hold their own in the Caucasus region of Turkey. This, with the pressure on other war fronts, should make material changes in the Old World conflict ere winter sets in.