[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | October | Issue: 4 | Title: R.S. LECTURE TO MOTHERS. | Author: Unknown]

	R.S. LECTURE TO MOTHERS.
	In the beginning of the world God
placed man on earth to have dominion
over all the earth. He also gave him
woman, equally intelligent. It seems or-
dained that man should be at the head.
He is physically stronger, and to the wife
he is head, husband and protector on
earth. As a father he stands at the head
of the family.
	Close by him stands the wife, who is
to be a helpmeet, a comfort, and to be
mother; for no greater mission can be
given her than to be a mother.
	She is equally responsible for the prop-
er government of the children. It is her
right to walk shoulder to shoulder with
her companion in seeking knowledge and
intelligence.
	Truly if the husband is a man in every
sense of the word, the wife can be a
woman in every sense of the word also.
President Joseph F. Smith says: “A man
that is a true Latter-day Saint will make
a good husband; the same with the wo-
man—she will make a good wife.” He
has also said: “A man that will not live
up to his duties in the priesthood need
not demand obedience from his wife.”
	It is hard for the mother when the
father is indifferent to teach, guide and
direct her children in the path she desires
them to go. The same, or perhaps more
so, when the mother is indifferent. When
there is division at the head of the fam-
ily, it will surely prove instability of
character in the children.
	Children should be taught to respect
the right which the parents have to con-
trol over them, and respect their parents’
authority, by asking permission to go, or
to do anything in which they need coun-
sel and advice. Children who will do
this are the ones who will respect those
in authority away from home—the school
teacher, the Primary and Sunday-school
teacher, those in authority in the differ-
ent organizations of the ward—the bish-
op and the authority of God.
	Every member of the family should
have their rights respected; even the
youngest member should be taught not
to take brother’s or sister’s book. Broth-
ers or sisters should not take, borrow or
make use of anything which belongs to
another brother or sister without their
consent. For doing such things in their
absence or without consent will surely
bring disappointment, ill-feeling and an-
gry words. When the rights of each one
in the family are strictly regarded, the
children can be trusted everywhere they
go, “and the principles of honor and jus-
tice will be stamped upon their charac-
ters.”
	Ephesians 6:4: “And ye fathers, pro
voke not your children to wrath; but
bring them up in the nurture and admo-
nition of the Lord.”
	Oftimes parents offend their children
by a word or a phrase, saying, “Oh, you
fool!” or “You ain’t got any sense!” if
they did not do everything exactly right.
Children are sensitive, and their little


[Column 1]
hearts are easily hurt. There are chil-
dren who are accustomed to hear such
language; but what kind of children are
they? Children who are ding-donged at
and receive a volley of harsh words for
every little mistake, can never rise or at-
tain to that high standard of morality to
which they might if better examples were
set before them.
	“What we want our children to be
we must be also,” is a true saying.
“Bring them up in the nurture and ad-
monition of the Lord” is the same exhor-
tation to parents in this day.
	Doc. and Cov. 68: 25-28: “And again,
inasmuch as parents have children in
Zion, or in any of her stakes which are
organized, and teach them not the doc-
trine of repentance, faith in Christ the
Son of the living God, and of baptism,
and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
laying on of hands when eight years old,
the sin be upon the heads of parents;
	“For this shall be a law unto the in-
habitants of Zion or any of her stakes
which are organized;
	“And their children shall be baptized
for the remission of their sins when eight
years old and receive the laying on of
hands.
	“And they also shall teach their chil-
dren to pray and to walk uprightly before
the Lord.”
	Children at any age should be obedient
and regard their parents rights. Nor
have they any right to dictate to their
parents what they ought to do or ought
not to do. How beautiful to see or hear
a young man or woman asking counsel
or advice of the parents the same as
when they were young children. Surely
these are examples in every Latter-day
Saint home. The Savior, having such
great wisdom and knowledge that He
could astound the lawyers, doctors, and
wise men with questions and answers,
doing the will of His Father in heaven,
yet was He obedient to His earthly par-
ents, for “He was subject unto them.”
	“Honor thy father and thy mother” is
one of the commandments given to Moses
for the children of Israel. With this
commandment was a promise given,
“that thy days may be long upon the
land.”
	God is the Father of our spirits, and
we should honor Him by keeping His
commandments. If we do this we shall
love Him. Next to God we should hon-
or our parents, those who gave us birth,
watched over us with tenderness and
love, have cared for us and trained us up
in our youth and we being the most help-
less beings God had created while in in-
fancy, therefore need the utmost care.
	How dangerous for a young man or
woman to judge their parents, finding
fault with them, saying if they had done
better or differently we would have been
better and could have done better. But
we do not know of their opportunities or
their environment.
	Shakespeare says, “We think our fath-
ers fools: our sons will no doubt think us
so.”
	Those parents who came here for
the gospel’s sake to this blessed land,
where saints and prophets are, and can
draw inspiration from the beauties of na-
ture—from vale and mountain,—have
placed their children in a better way of
advancement. There is no excuse for
those who have the gospel which teaches

[Column 2]
us right and truth, and by keeping the
commandments of God we will find no
time to find fault, and especially with
our parents. We will not feel to do so.
	No greater honor can children bestow
upon parents than by walking in the
paths of virtue, truth and righteousness.
It will fill their souls with joy and peace,
and would call down heaven’s choicest
blessings; then we could expect our chil-
dren to fill our lives with joy and peace.
Surely this would prolong life, and the
promise could not help but be fulfilled,
“that thy days may be- long upon the
land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee.”
	“Charity begins at home,” so says the
old proverb.
	If we are charitable at home we can ex-
pect to be elsewhere. Charity is a virtue
which raises the soul nearer heaven.
	Corinthians 13th chapter. Charity in
all its forms is to be admired, and when
practiced in the form of love and for-
bearance it is beautiful. If we take
charity in the form of almsgiving, it
should be encouraged, but we may be lib-
eral in almsgiving and not be charitable.
We may set a table and decorate it beau-
tifully, and place rich food before our
guests, but if we are not charitable, it is
not true hospitality. If we see every
fault and failing with those with whom
we associate and make remarks on them,
we are wanting in true charity.
	If ever there were a people whom the
Savior could not tolerate, it was the hyp-
ocrites, who said and did things just to be
seen of men. But he said, “Verily, veri-
ly I say unto you, they have their re-
ward.” As the old story goes, of the
rich man who passed by, and refused a
poor, ragged girl who asked him for a
penny to buy bread as he went to church
to give in his thousands of dollars to the
poor. How the people praised him and
put his name in the papers in big head-
lines and said how generous and liberal
he was. Truly he got his reward—the
praise of men. We have reason to be-
lieve there are many instances of true
charity throughout the world where there
is distress, sickness and poverty, where
there is no one to see, only the individu-
als themselves, and no one to record. But
we believe, as the song says, “Angels
are silent notes taking of every action,”
etc.
	Deut. 15: 11: “The poor shall never
cease out of the land,” therefore I com-
mend the saying, “Thou shalt open thine
hands wide unto thy brother, to the
poor, and to thy needy in thy land-” The
scriptures are full of such admonitions.
There are many ways of helping the
poor. We can see the wisdom of our
Father in inspiring the Prophet Joseph
Smith to organize the Relief Society.
Truly much good has been done, and we
cannot estimate the great good which
will be done through the organization.
Then we have a chance to give fast-offer-
ings or donations to the poor, and by pay-
ing an honest tithing the poor need not
want.
	In the sayings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, by O. B. Huntington. On one
occasion the Prophet was asked the
meaning of the words of the Savior,
“Make to yourselves friends of the mam-
mon of unrighteousness, and when ye fail
they may receive you into everlasting
habitations.” Brother Huntington mar-

[Column 3]
veled at the words; this is as near as he
remembers them:
	“That every man will fail some time.
Be charitable and liberal with your sub-
stance, for it is only a secondary consid-
eration—the use you make of it is the
primary consideration. You may do good
to some one who is down today, and who
will be on the top of the wheel when you
are down; for every man will fail some
time.”
	Charity obeys the Lord’s commands:
“Do unto others as you would have them
do to you;” “Love thy neighbor as thy-
self;” “Thou shalt not bear false witness
against thy neighbor.”
	Charity is self-restraint, self-forgetful-
ness. It does not willingly listen to the
voice of slander, and if compelled, does
not repeat it. Charity is characteristic
of a true woman and gentleman. Polite-
ness born of charity, is gentle, engaging
in manner, and shows in every action of
a true and refined woman, while lack of
charity and vulgar manners are looked
upon with contempt and such persons are
neither loved nor respected. 
	It is necessary that mothers train their
little ones to practice little acts of char-
ity and kindness, te be polite to brothers
and sisters as well as to visitors or strang-
ers. Mothers should not encourage tale
bearing or to speak unkindly of their 
playmates., for allowing these feelings to
take root in their little hearts unchecked,
the seeds of future uncharitable feelings
are sown. Teach them lessons of self-
denial and unselfishness. Point out to
them to do to others as they would be
done by, and to return good for evil. It 
may seem hard, but with patience and
perseverance, good results will be seen,

