[Vol52 | May 1965 | Page 339 | Special Feature | Gifts From My Mother Sylvia | Probst Young]
mother. 'That,'' she said proudly, "is a gift from my mother.
It was imported from Italy."' On my way home I thought about the gifts my mother had given me. Materially I don't have much from her—two patchwork quilts she made for me when I was married, an old-fashioned treadle sewing machine, a glass cakestand, a pair of embroidered pillowcases, and a knitting sampler that she made some eighty years ago in a little Swiss school. These things came to me when she died, and moneywise they aren't worth very much. But Mother had left to me some priceless gifts that cannot be bought with money—a legacy for which I am deeply grateful. My mother taught me to love God's great out-of-doors — the wonder of the seasons, the miracle of a seed, the song of a brook, the return of a bird. Morning after summer morning we worked together in the garden. Her neat rows of vegetables, bordered by sweet peas and delphinium were admired by friends and neighbors near and far. And how often in the opal twilight we climbed our hill to watch night come softly over the valley. There was a cold winter morning when we walked across the crusted snow of the meadows to see how the frost had turned the creek and the willows into a regal fairyland. 


 To mother, books were as essential as bread and butter. She wanted us to know good literature, and we early came to know the works of such writers as Wordsworth and Shakespeare, Longfellow and Lowell. When a traveling library came to our little town she would see that we borrowed some delightful books for our vacation reading. The Church magazines—The Children's Friend, The Juvenile Instructor, The Young Ladies' Journal, The Improvement Era, and The Relief Society Magazine were very carefully kept and at the end of the year we bound these precious volumes with the aid of a paper punch and some shoelaces. There was a special shelf in our clothes closet for these 'bound volumes," and we read them over and over again. Mother had a deep appreciation for good music, and she helped us to gain a love for it. Whenever I think of our front room I remember the corner where the organ stood, and the young people who gathered around it to sing together. Some of us children were always practicing on that old pump organ, and Mother willingly did washings to pay for music lessons. My mother was deeply spiritual, her family and my father's had come to America for the gos- I pel, and to them it was the most precious thing in the world. We learned about the Lord very early, and we were taught the value and importance of prayer and faith, repentance and baptism, the paying of tithing and the Word of Wisdom. Our winter nights were spent around a wood-burning stove reading the gospel together. We took turns reading chapters from the Bible and The Book of Mormon. Together, we read the life of Christ from the New Testament, and Joseph Smith's Story. From the Old Testament, we read the stories of all the wonderful old prophets — Moses, Joseph, Samuel, Daniel, or sometimes, Mother told those stories. She loved to tell stories, and she was a wonderful storyteller. Through her teachings we learned the great value of spiritual blessings and gained a knowledge of the truth. These are some of the gifts my mother gave to me. Time cannot efface them nor can thieves break in and take them from me. These gifts are far more precious than rubies, and for them I shall be eternally grateful to the wonderful woman who was my mother.