[Vol52 | May 1965 | Page 356 | Home | Make an Add-on Pocket | Adelle Ashby]

Make
an
Add-
on
Pocket

Adelle Ashby

[ILLUSTRATION]

■ Some of the new styles for the little miss leave the dresses without pockets. This presents a problem when she is sent to school. One suggestion is to make three or four pockets that can be added to her different dresses. Add-on pockets are portable, and are slipped onto her belt. They look pretty on most any style, be it a dress or a skirt (figure 1). If the dress or skirt does not have a belt, just stitch three snaps on the back of the pocket, and three snaps to correspond someplace on the dress.

If you make several different colored pockets, they can mix with or match her clothes, and she will always be able to have her milk money or hankie handy.

The slip-on pocket has three little loops stitched to the back.

FABRIC TO CHOOSE

The pocket takes so little material that you can use pieces left over from other sewing projects. A piece of organdy goes well with the daintier dresses, a bit of heavy denim will go with heavy skirts, or some corduroy will team up with jumper dresses.

To add a bright note to an otherwise plain dress, try making the add-on pocket of gay plaid or polka dots. Or make a pocket of bright striped corduroy to go with all of her corduroy skirts and jumpers.

356

[ILLUSTRATION - Sewing pattern diagrams showing pocket construction with multiple figures]

figure 1
bias tape loops

figure 2
top 5"
back
cut two
3"
1"
1/2" 4" 1/2"
7"

front
cut one

figure 3
front with ruffle

figure 4
[Three pocket examples showing: cat design, "PAT" text, and floral design]

CUT FROM DIAGRAM

You will need to cut two pocket backs (figure 2) so that the pocket will be sturdy. Then cut the pocket front making it two inches wider than the back. If you are going to use a ruffle or other wide trim, you will need to allow for this in the cutting of the pocket front, and make it smaller than suggested in the diagram, because the completed pocket front should be the same size as the back when finished (figure 3). Be sure to use your pinking shears when cutting organdy or taffeta, to prevent unraveling.

SEW BACK FIRST

First, sew the two pocket backs together, being sure to put the right sides together. Sew them along the top and sides only, leaving the bottom free to turn. Now turn and press. Stitch three little bias tape loops securely near the top of the pocket back through which the dress belt may be slipped.

Before sewing the pocket front to the back, you will need to stitch on the trim. You may want a little ruffle, or some rickrack, or bias binding. If the pocket is being made of plain material, you may want to embroider a kitten, a flower, or perhaps, the child's name or her initial (figure 4).

357
