[Vol52 | May 1965 | Page 367 | Fiction | The Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 8 (Conclusion) | Mabel Harmer]
[ILLUSTRATION]

The
Turn
of the
Wheel

[ILLUSTRATION]

Mabel Harmer                    Chapter 8 (Conclusion)

■ Before they had finished break-
fast the next morning Uncle Fred-
erick said, "Now that I have this
nice, big car" . . . He waited for
the laughter to subside, and then
went on. "Anyway, it will hold
the five of us, or so I think. We
can try it out, and then you must
all go with me on some trips a-
round the countryside. We should
visit Garmish and Munich and
. . . ."

"Just a minute!" cried Maria.
"You forget that I am a working
girl. We don't just run off with
visiting uncles whenever we take
a notion. That is, we don't go
and keep our jobs."

"And I must become a working
girl as fast as I can," said Elsa.
"As you know, I just barely had
enough money to bring me back
here."

"Come now. You can go for a

week, anyway," her uncle in-
sisted. "You will not starve, nor
do without any real necessities in
that time. And the trip will cost
you nothing. You, Maria, can get
a week's vacation, surely."

"Yes, perhaps I can. And it
would be wonderful to have such
a pleasant trip."

"Good. Just as soon as you
can get away we will start off on
a holiday. Perhaps we will go
over into Austria. As far as Inns-
bruck, anyway. Why, we can do
that in a single day. Now, it is all
arranged." He looked at them
all happily.

"It is all arranged as far as you
and I are concerned," laughed
Maria. "Herr Klopfer, my em-
ployer, may take quite a dif-
ferent view. Anyway, we shall
see. I'll ask this very day."

"If we do go," said Elsa, "it

367

should be right away, so that I can get to work as soon as possible. But, as you say, a week probably won't make too much difference."

She wanted to go out that very day and start looking for work, but her mother wouldn't hear of it. "You are entitled to one day at home," she said, "after so long an absence. If not, I am entitled to have you here one day, at any rate."

Elsa agreed, and when Maria returned from work that evening, she said, "Herr Klopfer will let me go if I can get someone to work in my place. This is the busy season in the gift shop, of course, with all of the tourists coming through now. Vacation time for us is in the late fall and winter when everyone else stays at home."

"That problem will be an easy one to solve," said Elsa. "I can take your place. I've had all the traveling and vacation that is coming to me. Besides, I know the shop and can do much better than anyone else. Tell Herr Klopfer that I'll report to work Monday morning."

When Maria started to protest, her mother said firmly, "I think Elsa is right. Perhaps if she goes back to work, Herr Klopfer will decide he can use the two of you. Besides," she added with a twinkle in her eyes, "think how much more comfortable I shall be traveling with only two of us in that small back seat."

It was finally agreed that the others would leave on the following Monday, and that Elsa would stay at home and take over the work in the gift shop.

By the time Sunday came she had been home for two days and had seen nothing of Karl. She began to suspect that his devotion was more in her mother's mind than in his heart. She strongly suspected, also, that her mother's reason for suggesting that she remain at home had more of a motive than merely wanting the additional room in the rear seat of the Volkswagon.

They drove to church Sunday morning a few minutes early, so that Maria would be there in plenty of time to play the preliminary organ music. Karl met them in the foyer. His greeting was as warm as anyone could wish, although he seemed just as much pleased to meet the aunt and uncle as he was to see her again. He was now in the branch presidency, he explained, and would be calling upon her right away to give her a choice of any two or three jobs that she might like.

Before Elsa could answer, her mother said, "You must come home with us to dinner today. We want you to get acquainted with our folks from America."

Elsa blushed faintly. Hadn't he just made it plain that he would be calling only in the interest of Church service? Why did her mother have to throw her at his head at every opportunity?

As they walked into the chapel and took their seats, her mother whispered, "You are very lucky that he has not found another girl. There are plenty who have been after him."

"It is possible that he doesn't want a steady girl friend, you know," Elsa replied. "Not every young man does."

368

THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

"Oh, no," her mother protested. "That is not at all likely. He is doing very well in his work. He has even bought a car from a young man who was returning to America."

Maria started to play the organ and Elsa said no more. What was the use, anyway? She couldn't convince her mother. She would have to show Karl herself that she hadn't come back mainly to try and capture him.

AFTER church her mother said to Karl, "Perhaps you will bring Elsa in your car. The rest of us can squeeze in with Frederick."

"With pleasure," he replied. "I shall be delayed here for a few minutes on some affairs for the branch. You will not mind the wait?" he asked Elsa.

She started to say that, as long as they had managed to squeeze in to come to church, she thought they could probably get back the same way. But some of her friends claimed her attention to welcome her back home, and by the time she was free again the family had driven away. There was nothing to do now but wait, unless she started out to walk, and that would be much too obvious.

When Karl was finally through, he hurried over and said, "I am so sorry to keep you waiting. There is always some little matter that needs attention. The branch is growing fast—as I suppose you noticed."

"I did indeed. So fast that I am beginning to wonder if I needed to come back, after all."

"Was that the only reason you came?" he asked, giving her a quizzical look.

She blushed faintly. "That was the main reason. At least, so I thought. Of course, there were some others."

"I hope so," he said simply, taking her arm and leading her to the car.

At the house they found a very happy group. Mother Breinholt had prepared the Sunday dinner that Elsa remembered best. Not elaborate, since most of it had been done the day before, but substantial and very good.

Uncle Frederick at once set about finding out all he could of Karl's work, both at his business and in the branch. Then he began telling him how much better he could do in America. "We have a fine farm—all our own," he said. "Our boys have all been to universities and have professions. If they had lived here it would have been just ordinary jobs."

"Not so," interrupted Aunt Edith. "Our boys would have done well anywhere."

"Indeed, yes!" added Sister Breinholt sharply. "Anyone with ambition can do just as well here as anywhere. You forget that Germany isn't what it was forty years ago. Why do you suppose that Elsa came back again?"

Before he could answer, and perhaps add to her embarrassment, Elsa quickly replied, "Because I felt that my place was here. It was not a matter of making money. Although, even at that I am not at all sure but what I could do just as well here as in America."

"Ja, ja!" exclaimed Uncle Frederick with a chuckle. "So we will let you young people stay right here. I will say no more."

369

MAY 1965

From the look on her mother's face, Elsa was sure that it was just as well.

THEY had a pleasant afternoon, and when it was time to return to church for the evening service, Karl said, "Will you play the organ tonight? Maria has done double duty all this time. I'm sure that she would like a chance to sit down in the congregation once more."

Both sisters agreed and Elsa took her place at the organ. She touched the keys lovingly. For some reason or other, it seemed to bring back to her, more than anything else, the great love she had for the old familiar things and places. Purposely she played "The Happy Wanderer."

Yes, the wanderer was home again and she was happy. She was also deeply content, and for that she was grateful. Happiness and contentment were rare treasures in anyone's life, sometimes purchased dearly. Always to be guarded zealously.

The two speakers of the evening were recent converts, a man and his wife. Elsa felt that their deep joy was a reflection of her own.

After the service the rest of the family drove home again with Uncle Frederick, but Karl took Elsa for a ride along the river on the opposite side from the castle. The great red brick battlements and towers were brilliant under floodlights, and it made a magnificent picture on the dark green of the hills.

"Did you ever see anything so beautiful in America?" asked Karl.

"Well, yes—to tell the truth, I did. The temple in Salt Lake City, lighted up at night, is the most inspiring sight I have ever seen, or ever expect to see. Naturally, there is a vast difference."

"Then some day you shall go back. But just long enough to have another look. In the meantime, you must make do with our castle."

"With the greatest of pleasure. Anyway, as far as I know, there isn't a single real castle in all of the United States."

Later she was to ponder his words, inferring that she might go back again some day for a visit. Was it a promise—of sorts?

Early the next morning she bade goodbye to the others as they set out for their holiday. She would very much have liked to go. Garmisch, Innsbruck—perhaps Salzburg, were magic names that she would have loved to make realities. But she quickly thrust such "selfish" thoughts aside. Her travels were over for the time. She must get to work.

It was fun to walk through Bismarckplatz again—to see and smell the lovely flowers. As she went down Hauptstrasse her first thoughts flew back to that morning, more than a year ago, when she had met the tall American soldier—met him so violently indeed that the Hoop-la had been knocked to the pavement and broken.

AT the gift shop Herr Klopfer was delighted to see her again. "I knew all the time that you would be back," he beamed. "No one can sell gifts as you can. You have a real love for the beautiful."

370

THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

"Thank you very much," she replied. "I am surely glad to be back. If only for this week."

"Nein!" he cried. "Now that I have both you and Maria it is time for me to take a vacation. For fifteen years now I have been at this shop day and night, except on Sundays and holidays. Now it is my turn to play. Fran Klopfer and I will go to the Land of the Midnight Sun. Is that not a wonderful idea?"

"It is, indeed," agreed Elsa. "Quite as wonderful for me as for you."

She was grateful that she was sure now of work for at least a month. That would give her ample time to look around and find something more permanent.

When she left the shop that evening Karl was waiting outside in his red Volkswagon. Her face lighted up. "What a nice surprise!" she exclaimed. "Now I shan't have to punish my aching feet any longer but can ride home like a queen."

"But we are not going home," he answered. "I have a lunch packed. We are going up to Konigstuhl. There is something I wish you to see."

"Good! It will be wonderful to see my valley again from the top of Konigstuhl—especially on this lovely summer evening."

They parked the car and took the funicular railroad up to the top. Then they walked along a path to a spot that afforded a wonderful view of the valley and the Neckar River below. When they came to a grassy knoll, Karl spread out the blanket he had carried and put down the lunch basket.

"I hope this will be enough,"

he said. "I remember that your mother packed twice as much for our last picnic up here."

"And we probably carried half of it back down again," smiled Elsa. "Yes, I am sure that this will do."

THEY ate heartily and there was none left this time to carry back. "Now, I have something else to show you," said Karl, rising and helping Elsa to her feet.

They walked along the path around a bend and there, close by the side of the path, was a small pile of rocks. "See," he pointed. "Our monument."

"But! how has it lasted all these months?" she gasped in surprise. "Surely small boys have been along to toss them down hill?"

"A few," he admitted. "Once in awhile I have had to rebuild. But in the main, it is still here. It marks the spot where I first fell in love with you." He took hold of her hand. "Shall I leave it here—or join the small boys and scatter the rocks on the hillside?"

"Oh, yes, Karl! Leave it by all means!"

He put an arm around her and drew her close. "There will be a group going to the temple at Berne within a few weeks. I have been there once. It is very lovely against the setting of pines. Shall we go? You will not find it so large and magnificent perhaps as the one in Salt Lake City."

"No," she smiled happily. "But this one is ours. This is where I want to go." She looked up into his eyes again and added, "And I want to go with you."

371
