[Vol52 | May 1965 | Page 324 | Special Feature | "Bring Up Your Children in Light and Truth" Vivian | R. McConkie]
Vivian R. McConkie @ We determined, as young parents, that the greatest challenge of our lives was to bring up our children in light and truth. We knew that to achieve this goal we would need to formulate and follow a family plan. The problem was: What should it be? What course should we follow? We knew the Lord had commanded us as parents to teach our children the doctrines of faith, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost; to teach them "to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord'; to teach them to observe the Sabbath day, and to work—all with a warning that should we fail the sin would be upon our heads. (D&C 68: 25-31.) We also knew that the man who at that time presided over 324 Vivian McConkie Adams and her daughters Julie (left) and Jeanine, wearing coats which Mrs. Vivian Redd McConkie, grandmother of Mrs. Adams, made for them in a home sewing project. The Church, President Joseph F. Smith, had given counsel and promises where the operation of Latter-day Saint homes was concerned. Among many other things, he had said: There is no substitute for the home.... There can be no genuine happiness separate and apart from _ the home.... There is no happiness without service, and there is no service greater than that which converts the home into a divine institution, and which promotes and preserves family life (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, 5th ed., page 300). Not one child in a hundred would go astray, if the home environment, example and training, were in harmony with the truth in the gospel of Christ, as revealed and taught to the Latter-day Saints. Fathers and mothers, you are largely to blame for the infidelity and indifference of your children. You can remedy the evil by "BRING UP YOUR CHILDREN IN LIGHT AND TRUTH" earnest worship, example, training and discipline, in the home (Ibid. P. 302). And again: What then is an ideal home?... It is one in which all worldly considerations are secondary. One in which the father is devoted to the family with which God has blessed him, counting them of first importance, and in which they in turn permit him to live in their hearts. One in which there is confidence, union, love, sacred devotion between father and mother and children and parents. One in which the mother takes every pleasure in her children, supported by the father — all being moral, pure, Godfearing (Ibid., pp. 302-303). Upon mature reflection our parental challenge seemed realistic and our set goal obtainable.

["Bring Up Your Children in Light and Truth" Vivian R. McConkie]

We would follow counsel, teach our children the gospel by precept and example, add whatever persuasion and _ encouragement seemed necessary, and then rely upon the Lord to fulfill his promise that if we trained up a child in the way he should go, when he was old he would not depart from the path of righteousness. From its beginning until now our home has been a _ gospel school. Parents and children have consistently and regularly engaged in organized theological discussions. This matter of teaching the gospel in the home presupposes that the parents know what they are expected to teach. It is the responsibility of parents to become informed about the principles of the gospel. Children will be taught and trained, one way or another. If they are not trained in the home, they will gain knowledge from their associates. Whatever their training, whether good or bad, it is not likely that they will depart from it. Rearing a good family is no accident. It is the result of following a consistent course. It is not sufficient to teach by example alone. The idea that it is better to see a sermon than hear one is only partially true. No student ever qualifies for a college degree because of the good example of his teachers. The student must also learn the lessons involved. Similarly, where the gospel is concerned, children must learn the whys and wherefores if they are to build a foundation for future righteousness. Sabbath observance has been one of the most effective means of keeping spiritual things uppermost in the lives of the members of our family. We always used the Sabbath as a teaching day. Following Sunday School, it was standard practice to discuss the lessons learned there. When my husband was president of the California Mission, a nonmember of the Church called at the mission headquarters and said: ''Last week I went to your son James' Sunday School class in the Manhattan Ward in New York. After the class I met him and his wife and was invited to their home for Sunday dinner. A prominent musician friend was also invited. After the meal was served James said: 'We will now go into the front room and talk about the gospel. It is a family tradition. My father always taught his children the gospel on Sunday afternoons.' " Proper persuasion, as well as teaching, aids the cause of righteousness. James was a talented musician. As a young boy, he would listen to the symphony or- 


 chestra broadcasts and follow the musical scores as he did so. One of these broadcasts was scheduled for the same hour as our ward sacrament meeting, and he had a great desire to stay home and listen to it. He said: "Daddy, I don't have to go to sacrament meeting unless I want to, do I?" The reply was: 'No, of course you don't; but you do want to do the right thing, and the right thing is to go to sacrament meeting; now hurry and get your coat, or you will be late." IN rearing a family the problem of money is ever with us. Young couples who have the attitude that their happiness depends upon how much money can be theirs to spend are sowing the seeds of discontent in their hearts and making a miserable home for themselves and their children. A capable wife who knows how to. Manage the spending of the. Family income wisely is worth her weight in gold. A sad commentary of our times is that young married people expect to start out with the modern luxuries which it took their parents years to acquire. This spirit of the times is partly the fault of parents, particularly mothers. Children should be taught in the home, before marriage, the value of a dollar and the art of industry. There are' few people whose money wants are fully satisfied. One's desires must be disciplined. Dollars can be saved if a mother knows how to sew, cook, decorate, and make handicraft items. We love to do the things we can do well. More women would stay in their homes and care for 326 and train their children if they knew more about the fine art of homemaking and what it means in the rearing of a family. Many mothers get great satisfaction out of sewing for their children and grandchildren, thus helping out in family budgets. Keeping the home and children clean, sewing, mending, washing, ironing, and preparing wholesome and well-balanced meals are all in themselves joyous experiences which help unite families in love and unity. Few things give a child a greater feeling of security and love than to come into a kitchen and smell the savory aroma of bread baking in the oven or some special dish cooking on the stove. Bringing up children in light and truth is a full-time occupation—and more—for parents. Fortunately, by following the programs and teachings of the Church, it turns out to be rewarding as well as challenging. And the more mature and stable parents become, the more they realize that the accumulation of worldly possessions and worldly honors should properly be relegated to the background, and that true joy and contentment come from rearing a family that is a credit to society and the Church. Truly, as President David O. McKay says, "No success compensates for failure in the home," for heaven itself is to us simply the continuation of the family unit in eternity. If we can learn how to arrange and conduct our family affairs in this life so that all members of the family will be united together in peace and joy forever, how great shall be our eternal joy!