Dorothy J:. Roberts Avtumn-has' stretched. Warm and-wide in. The sun And fingered with gold, the willowed bend Where the*river winds along the. Meadow's tength, And amber stubble burns across. The land. Autumn-has fingered all coral and. Blue, Although the time. For. Sodden-rain'is. Past: TheNambs. Are still limned. Silver 'in the sun; The plowed field, slow. To crumble, waits the frost. Autumn: stumbers. Imthe bonfire's. Haze, in meadows: slow to brown,-in cloudless 'air, Nin Persian slopes above a ribboned 'road, And. In the hungered watcher, pausing there. Scores of. Other autumns have come and. Gone; Some 'swiftly: and flamboyantly as. Spring, Butsonly this one, step by lagging step, Has made. Ifs way, reluctant, up the. Hilt: Nof to flare,-a-conflagration; bright. — And swift-as bonfires-leap before they die, But leaf by teaf and branch by golden branch, Slow. Waves ascending. To the timberline: | 'Autumn Leaves. On a Pool, Mill Creek Canyon, Utah Transparency by b. Paul Roberts Lithographed in Full._Color by Deseret News Press Aufurnn Tapestry, American Fork Saye Utah Rhatogroph: oh Hal. Romet Dick Scopes Mary Scopes" The beautiful lithographed covers of the Magazine are wonderful. The June 1963 issue, with its picture of the Salem Pond, brought joy to my heart, because that is the pond I grew up with. That pond is a delight to the people of the town and all who visit it. Claire Noall's pictures of Norway were a specialty to me. My parents were both born there, and their children were reared with stories about the beauties of their native land. —Bessie Iverson Jenkins Salt Lake City, Utah I enjoy the Magazine and make use of many of the ideas presented in it. I followed the ideas given in the article "Let's Have a Bake Party" (by Mary S. Kemp in the March issue), and gave a party for my five-year-old daughter. The children were delighted with the idea, and the parents thought it was the cleverest idea they had ever heard of. Thanks so much for the idea. —Mrs. Ernestine Sanford Socorro, New Mexico I have been a member of the Church since last November, but only just started to take the Magazine. How thrilled I was when I discovered the Sydney Stake, Parramatta Ward picture in the Magazine (July 1963). My eldest daughter, now almost four, was born in the Parramatta Hospital, and my husband and I and our two daughters hope to return to Sydney within the next two years. No doubt we shall be meeting the sisters whose picture was in the Magazine, for we shall be hoping to live in Parramatta. —Mrs. Viv Jackson Haney British Columbia I like The Relief Society Magazine very much, especially the lovely poetry, and I appreciate the opportunity of receiving the Magazine. —Mrs. Bessie Williams Winston, Oregon 722 The Relief Society Magazine is t grand and holds a wealth of knowledge t suit all members. In the June issue, especially enjoyed "Norway —- A Road E the Sea," by Claire Noall. Having tra eled there three years ago with my hus band, the article had great appeal to me I liked all the artwork in the Magazin and the article on growing African Violets by Irene Dunford was practical and beautiful. —Olive Hingston Taranaki, New Zealand Congratulations on your beautiful, moc ern July number. I have found the colorful cover of the pioneers at South Pa most interesting. The fine family mon; the sketch of my great-uncle, Presi dent John Taylor; the picture of handcart; the fresh, life-like stories; t musical poems; the sewing, cooking, a cultural articles all combine to inspire a improve our lives. —Mary Porter Ober Alhambra, California. Congratulations on the Fiftieth Anni versary of The Relief Society Magazine May I say that our Magazine is one ¢ the finest. The story "Kiss of the Wind, by Rosa Lee Lloyd (serial, beginning in — July 1963) brings the Hawaiian peop back to my mind. The Near and F page gives a glimpse of the feelings a expressions of other members of the ter-day Saint family. —Mrs. Frank Ashley Roseburg, Oregon Just lately I have been receiving TI Relief Society Magazine, and in it I 3 finding wonderful material for lessons. Missionaries are always thankful for ex help in our work. I find the lesse especial helpful in teaching the saints he in the mission. —Elder Kent Lyman Stevensc La Paz, Baja California

The Relief society Magazine OCTOBER 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 724 The Power of Books Spencer W. Kimball 732 He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part V — President Joseph F. Smith Preston Nibley 734 A Message to Young Mothers Mary M. Ellsworth Fiction 740 The Pendant Hazel Cheesman 757 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 4 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 722 From Near and Far 742 Editorial: In Time of Harvest Vesta P. Crawford 744 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Lessons on Talking Book Records Available for the Sightless 745 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 763 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker 800 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 747 Dinner in Advance' Dorothy C. Little 748 Stretching the Food Budget — Part II — Evaporated Milk Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris 751 Ironing Out the Wrinkles Maxine T. Grimm 752 Check Your Sewing Equipment Shirley Thulin 754 Farm Cellar of Long Ago Marian R. Anderson 756 Quilts That Tell a Story Lessons for January 770 Design Your Teaching Aids for the 1963-1964 Lessons Anna B. Hart 774 'Theology — The Scriptures Roy W. Doxey 779 Visiting Teacher Message — "Ask, and Ye Shall Receive " Christine H. Robinson 781 Work Meeting — Planning the Use of Resources Virginia F. Cutler 783 Literature — William Dean Howells, Democratic Realist Briant S. Jacobs 789 Social Science — Priesthood Quorums and Their Function Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 721 Lingering Autumn — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts Landscape Quilting by Iris W. Schow, 731; Watchcare, by Zara Sabin, 739; Farewell to a House Well Loved, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 744; Suggestion, by Ida Elaine James, 746; Count Your Blessings — Not Troubles, by Ursula King Bell, 751; Old Wagon Wheel, by Jeanette Swanson, 762; Ready for Carnival, by Maude Rubin, 773; My Afghan, by Pearle M. Olsen, 795; Open Kettle Canning, by Christie Lund Coles, 796; Hidden Worth, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 796; Two By Two, by Arline Cummings, 797; Pictures of an Old Red Barn, by Linnie F. Robinson, 798; Sidewalk Vignette, by Betty Isler, 800. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Sixcr time immemorial men's thoughts have been directed, their emotions swayed, their lives influenced, and their actions stirred or curtained by the expressed thoughts, and experiences lived by others. Real thinkers are the small ml nority, and the followers in thought and act are the great majority. People are changed by what they hear and what they read. Alexander Smith says: "Books are a finer world within a world." And we heartily agree if he refers to the "best books." While there have been books and records all through the ages, they are far more abundant today, and even a person of moderate means may have an adequate library in his own home and have access to numerous books and magazines through public libraries which boast millions of copies. There is little excuse for even the poorest folk in our day to be without good reading material. In pioneer days written material was at a premium. It is recorded that Abraham Lincoln, the American Emancipator, was so hungry for reading material that he walked long distances to borrow a book and then to return it; and he used charcoal to write on smooth wood and a knife to whittle off the writing. In those early days when men were fighting the natural elements, trying to get a foothold in the soil and to establish themselves in virgin territory, their long hours were spent in manual labor, and they had 724 The Power of Books Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve and Camilla E.. Kimball neither the time nor the books. But today what an opportunity! Laboring hours have been reduced and leisure time increased! Numerous leisure hours have been made available to men. It is noticeable that many use these extra hours for fun and pleasure. Certainly an increased part of it could profitably be used in gaining knowledge and _ culture through the reading of good books. Numerous people fail to take advantage of these opportunities. Many people spend hours in planes with only cursory glancing at magazines, and in the train or bus, time is spent "sitting and thinking," and in many cases, "just sitting," when there could be such a constructive program of reading. People in beauty parlors, professional offices, waiting rooms, and elsewhere waste precious hours thumbing through outdated magazines when much valuable reading could be done in these islands of time. For example, the Bible can be read in a year's time with but a little time each day. Good reading habits should be formed in early childhood. Since women, generally, have the greater responsibility in training the children they should make a study of their facilities. We might ask each mother: Is there a dearth of good books in your home? Is there sufficient reading material of good quality and high standard for each child, so that each will read the appropriate books as he grows up — those books which will whet his taste for good things, stimulate his ambition, properly stir his emotions, and increase his love for the beautiful and proper things, and develop his faith and build his character? Do you mothers read to your children to start them in their hunger for the good things? There are mothers who read the stories of the scriptures regularly to their children who look forward to this delightful family experience. Axx you careful in the selection of the books which go into your home library so that only the clean and the good are available to the children? Are you as careful with the diet of reading material for their minds as you are of the food which goes daily into their bodies? How few children would get a balanced diet if left to their own fickle appetites. And it is in these homes where parents are careless that there is found pornographic reading material and salacious pictures and stories to stuff the minds with lewdness and filth. If children establish their standards from either rude persons or crude books and pictures, society has suffered an irreparable loss, whereas it has a right to expect from each of its members a worthwhile contribution toward peace, joy, and progress. Out of the vast amount of reading material available there is something exactly to fit the needs of every child at every age from the slightly retarded to the most brilliant child, and all in between at their own vocabulary level. 'The wise parents will supply the proper books and stimulate their reading. Someone has said: "I no more THE POWER OF BOOKS remember the books I have read, than the meals I have eaten, but they make me what I am." Every person we meet makes a contribution to our lives, good or bad. Every book can influence the life of the person who reads it. The parents' responsibility, then, is to make certain that the influence is good. While the body is sacred and vital, the mind and spirit are of greater importance. Even in the beginning there was the written word, for Adam and Eve were conscious of the need for the development of the mind, "And by them their children were taught to read and write, having a language which was pure and undefiled" (Moses 6:6). The prophets were faithful in recording their predictions and warnings, and the patriarchs in making accurate accounts of the movements of the people, their human events, their genealogies, their biographies, and the world events. Their smaller world was limited in communication and transportation, but, coming from them, we have the precious records of the ages with their lessons of life accurately depicted. Whether they wrote on paper, papyrus, clay tablets, on stone or on metal, the political and _ spiritual leaders made faithful records and, to them, we are indebted for the great mass of worthwhile information that is available to us today. I. THE museums of London, Cairo, Bagdad, Paris, and elsewhere are numerous clay tablets and metal records preserved from the antiquities. Far down in the bowels of the 725 OCTOBER 1963 earth in the Valley of the Kings near Luxor in Egypt, the walls of the tombs are covered with colored writings preserved through the ages. From the earth in New York came precious metal plates of gold recording histories and biographies and events in the old and new worlds for about 2600 years. How fortunate we are to have all these records! In our own day, the printing presses of all the more developed countries run incessantly pouring out new reading material. We are advised that books are published in the United States, alone, at the rate of more than a thousand per month. With the millions already in libraries and new books every few minutes, there is little justification for one in our enlightened groups being unread. Most people, and especially children, need guidance as to what they should read. Children will generally follow the patterns of their parents. The Lord has indicated this when he said: And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books, words of wisdom, seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:118). Happy is the family whose members have learned to make good books their companions. The need of guidance by parents, teachers, and Church organizations is apparent, that the minds of children be properly stirred and fed. One is literally what he thinks, and his thinking is greatly influenced by what he reads. Someone gave us this: Thought in the mind hath made us. What we are 726 By thought was wrought and built. If a man's mind Hath evil thoughts, pain comes on him, as comes The wheel the ox behind. If one endure In purity of thought, joy follows him As his own shadow — sure. The Lord would have us know the gospel truths first, but would not limit us to the scriptures. He has said: Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me (John 5:39). He has also indicated that our reading should be of a general nature, including material in every legitimate field. As we yearn and plan and program our lives to become gods, it is apparent that we must have full knowledge of all the fields which affect a world. The Lord has made this clear: And I give unto you a commandment that ye shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms — That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you (D & C 88:77-80). It would seem from the foregoing that the Lord expected that the people should have access to a wide variety of information to give them breadth and depth in their lives.. Things in heaven" might be the study of astronomy and related subjects. 'To know and appreciate the wonders of the heavens cannot but increase our appreciation of God and his great wisdom and power. With all the study of the ages, men are but beginning to comprehend this vast science. As parents we should strive to learn about the wonders of the universe and teach our children of them by putting into their hands books suited to their age and development, which will encourage and help them to understand these limitless creations of God.. And in the earth." This echoes the commandment given to Adam to replenish the earth and subdue it. The Lord has said also: The fulness of the earth is yours. Yea, all things which come of the earth. Are made for the benefit and the use of man. And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man (D & C 59:16-20). To understand the soil and the seasons would be a fascinating study, and every home should have a bit of garden even if it can be had only in a window box, as is so often seen in European apartments. This can furnish a limited opportunity for learning in this field and the appreciation of it. "Subdue the earth" could include THE POWER OF BOOKS engineering in damming of streams for power, irrigation and flood control, dredging waterways for navigation, bridging of rivers and ocean inlets for better transportation, drilling of wells, and making canals for more beneficial use of water, and numerous other services for the subduing of the earth. The sciences of biology, geology, and other ologies teach us about the earth and its formation and its inhabitants; oceanography is the study of the elements "under the earth." "Things which have been'"' invites us to delve into history which can be a fascinating hobby and a lifetime challenge. Current events or history in the making should cause us great concern and careful study. The selection of dependable and unbiased reporting should influence our source material. "A knowledge of countries... And kingdoms..." will be found in a study of political and physical geography, languages, and customs. This should help us to understand people better, that we may live more harmoniously together. The National Geographic Magazine is a good example of many available magazines which furnish excellent, helpful source material about the earth and all its peoples; and one is well read in this field who captures and absorbs the extensive material there afforded. It is not seasonal like a newspaper, but extends its usable life into long years and is dependable as a blueprint or road map of countries one wishes to visit. Television, radio, travel, and countless well-written books of other lands also help. The Lord directs us to study all potentials of the elements 727 OCTOBER 1963 of nature, and all scientific developments. "Things which are at home" might be an' invitation to study home building, homemaking, furnishing, child psychology and child training, marital felicity, and such. "Wars and perplexities of the nations' are our great concern since the world is now a single community, and perplexities afflicting one people affect and influence all lives. Newspapers and magazines keep us posted on these matters, and to keep aware of world happenings may help us to avoid entangling alliances and difficulties. The Lord indicates that "the fulness of the earth is yours," and he goes on, saying: Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart and to enliven the soul (D & C 59:18-19). Somermes one becomes surfeited in reading the difficult subject matter which takes concentration, and he needs variety. 'There is available a wide selection of books which will give development to the aesthetic and the cultural. Music, drama, poetry, fiction, and other cultural fields are available to everyone. The contributions come to us from great minds and great hearts and great sufferers and great thinkers. In addition to all the serious study there should be time for just plain reading for pleasure. Here one needs assistance to select that which is pleasurable in a worthwhile way. 'There are countless works of fiction which help us to understand ourselves and others better, and to 728 get real pleasure in the learning. There are great books which stimulate our thinking and help us to establish values. A typical little volume, exciting to read and of wholesome thought, is Gift From the Sea by Anne Lindbergh. It could be read many times. She found the simple life reminiscent of Thoreau's Walden which influenced the thinking of Relief Society women last year. The women of the Church should find no difficulty in selecting reading material for themselves and their families with The Children's Friend, The Instructor, The Era, The Relief Society Magazine, the Church Section of the Deseret News, and all the lessons of the auxiliary organizations. Mothers have also the well-written lessons in_ literature, social science, and theology which can give them a liberal education if they are dutiful in their pursuit. The sisters should not be content to hear the lessons only, but should let that lesson be only the appetizer to induce a total reading of the books referred to. The Lord commanded us to learn by study and by faith and prayer. When the Savior was tempted by Lucifer, he replied: Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God (Mt. 4:4). It is the spiritual and ethical and religious reading which all should do which will give background for cultural and spiritual growth. Since no amount of knowledge can save or exalt, one must apply his knowledge. Consequently it is necessary that in the reading habits of men there should be a generous part directed to the spiritual:... That you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom... And -.. More perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D & C 88:77-78). This would imply careful, regular, and systematic study of the standard works of the Church. Herein will be found the material for a lifetime of profitable study. One could not possibly, in mortality, learn all about the Way of Life, consequently these books should be in every home, available for constant reference and reading. Splendid it would be if gifts to children in their early years were book-gifts. How fine if every child could have the New Testament even in early years, and, a little later, his own triple combination of the three books and also his own Bible. Herein are found the "... Principle, doctrine, the law of the gospel, all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God." Emerson said: ""There is properly no history; only biography," and, if children are to grow up _ with character and intense love and deepseated faith, let them read the biographies of the great of all time. Every lesson in ethical standards and in proper spiritual living is found in the standard works. Here will be found the rewards of righteousness and the penalties of sin. Here will be the life stories of men who were selfish, arrogant, bold, and vicious, and who came to tragic ends. Here are the histories of nations which degenerated from godTHE POWER OF BOOKS hood back to beasthood, who with their posterity, suffered untold agonies and death. "In the history of the world," said Emerson, "a very large part of what has been achieved can be traced to the influence of a relatively small handful of men — men who were dedicated, enterprising, curious and able to a degree which set them apart from their contemporaries. There is a real sense in which the story of their lives is the history of the world." Here are the pictures of people who lived and met all the exigencies of life and overcame meanness, jealousies, envies, hatreds, and became pure of heart and clean of hands. Here are pictures of the winds of disobedience and rebellion and uncleanness and the whirlwinds that enveloped them. Here are men who approached perfection under trials and difficulties, like Job, and who emerged superior beings. Here are the biographies of the prophets and of leaders and of the Lord himself, giving example and direction so that men can, by following those examples, be perfected, happy, full of joy, and with eternity their goal and expectation. And the Lord required, in addition to the study of these numerous fields of culture and interest, we '.. Study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men." [This would be the Holy Bible said by John Livingstone Lowes to be the noblest monument of English prose, and said by the Lord to be MY WORD.|.. And also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating...." [This is certainly the Book of Mormon.] éé 729 OCTOBER 1963 ae yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children ot men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto...." [And _perhaps this includes from the Pearl of Greai Price, the Book of Moses]: "The visions of Moses as revealed to Joseph Smith, the Prophet" [and also the Book of Abraham] "a translation of some ancient records " (D & C 11:22). [And the Lord commanded further]:.. Seek ye out of the Book of Commandments..." Jour Doctrine and Covenants, our book of modern revelation]. Among the "best books" to be read are the numerous commentaries of the leaders of the Church, too numerous to list, but which are stimulating and clarifying and written to give a better understanding of the Plan. The Articles of Faith is a type of gospel explanation books. Home Memories of President David O. McKay is an example of ideal home life and characterbuilding books. The Way to Perfection, by President Joseph Fielding Smih is a gospel treatise. Our Lord of the Gospels, by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., is a comprehensive arrangement making the study of the scriptures easier for the student. It must be remembered that all books published by Church authors are not official Church publications, and the reader must be discriminating and selective. But all these numerous books have much of value in them for the discriminating student. In all the commentaries, good as they may be, it must be remembered that none takes the place of the original source material. Conditions may have been such that few people could talk to Browning, Shakespeare, Scott, or Emerson, but almost everyone in ce 730 our world can profit by their written thoughts. Few of us could travel with Byrd to the South Pole or with Peary into the frozen areas of the North, but everyone can read of their experiences and of the conditions in those desolate areas. Few of us can travel to the Sistine Chapel in Rome and see the great array of masterpieces of the great artists in the great art galleries of the world, nor can we sit in their studios and see them work, but relatively few need be deprived of seeing the works of the masters, for home libraries may have faithful reproductions. Not everyone may kneel with the Prophet in the Sacred Grove nor on Mount Sinai with Moses, nor on the Mount of Transfiguration with Peter, James, and John, yet nearly every soul in our world may see the pictures of artists and read the true record of these world-stirring events. Few of us may, at this time, fly into space, yet we may do so by proxy as we read the exploits of the astronauts. Through books we may come to know the kindliness of Abraham Lincoln, the devotion of Sweitzer, the vision of Franklin, the faith of Abraham, and the sacrifice of our Lord Jesus Chnist. Few of the billions of earth can walk with God as did Adam and Abraham and Moses, yet, in the world in which we live, the scriptures are available to nearly every soul, and, through them, men can become intimately acquainted with their Heavenly Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and with conditions and opportunities and expectations of life eternal. Josef Muench FARM SCENE IN NORTH WALES Landscape Quilting Iris W. Schow Fall plowing forms the lining; The fleece is fluffy snow; Contrasting crops Piece patchwork tops, And the intense lines Of all the fencelines Mark where the quilting stitches go! He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Part V — President Joseph F. Smith Joseru F. Smith, the sixth President of the Church, was born at Far West, Missouri, November 13, 1838. He was the son of Hyrum and Mary Fielding Smith. When the boy was a little less than six years of age, his father Hyrum and his uncle the Prophet Joseph Smith, were killed by a cruel mob in Carthage Jail, Illinois. When he was nine years of age he drove an ox team across the plains to Utah, following President Bngham Young; when he_ was fourteen his mother died, and from that time on he made his way alone. He served as a missionary in the Hawaiian Islands from 1854 when he was sixteen to 1858; his second mission was to England from 1860 to 1863. On July 1, 1866, Joseph F. Smith was ordained an apostle by President Bngham Young. His work in this important office occupied the remainder of his life. He subsequently served as counselor to three Presidents of the Church, John Taylor (1880 to 1887), Wilford Woodruff (1887 to 1898), and Lorenzo Snow (1898 to 1901). Joseph F. Smith became the President of the Church in October 1901. He served in this capacity with great 732 Prophet of God" Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian fidelity and honor until his death in November 1918, a period of seventeen years. Following are a few comments which President Joseph F. Smith made during his lifetime regarding his beloved uncle, the Prophet Joseph Smith. 'As a child I knew the Prophet Joseph Smith. As a child I have listened to him preach the Gospel, that God had committed to his charge and care. As a child I was familiar in his home, in his household, as I was familiar under my own father's roof. I have retained the witness of the spirit that I was imbued with as a child, that I received from my sainted mother, the firm belief that Joseph Smith was a (Sermon in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, July 8, 1917). "T bear my testimony to you, and to the world, that Joseph was raised up by the power of God to lay the foundations of this great latter-day work, to reveal the fulness of the Gospel to the world, in this dispensation, to restore the priesthood of God to the world, by which men may act in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, and it will be accepted of PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH God, it will be by his authority. I bear my testimony to it; I know that it is true" (The Improvement Era, Vol. 14, November 1910, page ). Mero me there is a sweet fascination in the contemplation of his [Joseph Smith's] childhood and youth. I love to contemplate the innocence and the artless simplicity of his boyhood. It bears record that he was honest, that he was led by the spirit of God to perform his wonderful mission. How could a child at his age be impelled by other than honest motives in the accomplishment of his high and holy calling? What he did he was led to do by the inspiration and guidance of his Heavenly Father, of this I feel assured. "He was much like other children; his play was like that of his companions; his thoughts like those of most children, were innocent, and consequently he was incapable of the knavery and connivance that his enemies declared he practiced. "Though poor, his parents were honest and good; they delighted in the truth, and it was their honest desire to live according to the best light within them. Love and good will to all found expression in their hearts and actions, and their children were imbued with like sentiments. They were firm believers in God and trusted in his watchcare over his children. 'They had frequently received manifestations of his loving kindness in dreams, visions and inspirations, and God had healed their little ones in answer to prayer when they were nigh unto death. It was in such an atmosphere that the boy was reared. Joseph was a remarkably quiet and well disposed child who gave his parents little or no trouble. At an eatly age of eight, he gave proof that besides being thoughtful, easily governed and of sweet and loving disposition, he possessed the foundation principles of a good character, filial affection, patience, endurance, courage. "Concerning his spiritual manifestations, is it reasonable to suppose that there could have been premeditated deceit on the part of the boy, and such a boy, in his simple statement of what he saw and heard? No; neither could the answer which the heavenly messenger gave to him, have been composed in the child's own mind. Joseph Smith's testimony concerning his heavenly manifestation, in later life, was as simple, straight-forward, plain and true, as it had been in childhood; the fidelity, courage and love implanted in and characteristic of his life in boyhood neither faltered or changed, with maturity. His wisdom came in revelations of God to him" (Improvement Era, December 1917, page 167). 733 Your search for a magic, effortless solution, or for a fairy godmother who could lift all your problems from your shoulders, has been in vain. Now it is time to face your situation honestly and _realistically. You are no longer a baby living in a_ plush, self-centered world, having no responsibilities or unfulfilled desires. You are the center of your own very real and very earnest adult world. You must do for yourself what no one else is able to do for you. You must tackle the terribly hard, never-ending, tedious, discouraging job of self-mastery for 'es Nag aver TOR Oe, e's Ral Mary M. Ellsworth yourself and by yourself. Relatives and neighbors can sympathize and advise and encourage, but you must lay the groundwork. Your finest outside help will come from the Lord, the only person who actually comprehends human _ be havior patterns in general and your unique combination in_ particular. Stay close to him through prayer and faith and blessings. Put your trust in him and practice leaving your worries in his hands. Dont take them to him and then bring them away with you, so you are just as worried and unhappy as before. *Condensed and abridged from "If Not Me, Who? If Not Now, When?" 734 CHILDREN OF HOMER AND MARY MADSEN ELLSWORTH Clockwise: Larry, four; Patrice, nine; Sterling, seven; Richard, thirteen; Elise, twelve; Ellen, twelve; Duffy, six. Center: Tina, fifteen; Mary, sixteen. If the worries come back, take them to him over and over, until at last you have peace. Give the following self-help pointers a mighty try. And when you fail and are discouraged, give them another try and another: 1. Don't expect any more of yourself than you do of others. Be patient and tolerant of yourself. Your goals should be high and challenging — but not impossible. 2. Take one thing at a time. Do not allow your mind to become a whip that races through an endless list of undone jobs. Move through life in "second gear," at an easy, measured pace, taking on just one job at a time and no other. When it is finished, go on to the next. Refuse to be hurried. Actually, you will accomplish more this way and with less wasted energy. A bright, early start after a full night's sleep is a big advantage toward a calm day. 3. Keep your life simple. Refuse 735 OCTOBER 1963 to be pushed into more outside activity than you can handle. "The things that matter most should not be at the mercy of the things that matter least." Allowing unessentials or lesser responsibilities to crowd out duties toward family, Church, and basic convictions will invariably lead to guilt feelings. They, in turn, enhance irritations and swell into "blue" moods. 4. Develop not only simplicity in your way of life, but in your choice of pleasures and enjoyments, also. Train yourself to appreciate the free, ample beauties and marvels and joys all about you, in nature, for instance. Make a hobby of studying and liking people. 5. Realize that you can, with prayer and faith and determination, change yourself — if you really want to change more than you want to remain as you are. For example, a person may wish to become mature, unselfish, uncomplaining; however, she may desire to be pitied, sympathized with, and helped more. She cannot bring herself to give up a clinging, dependent, martyr-type role for an independent, self-sufficient one. Here is the crux of the task of changing oneself: desire is the most essential ingredient. 6. Exercise regularly, or go walking or swimming, when possible. Often when you feel all you need is rest, systematic exercise will do more good. It will result in fewer aches and pains and weak and strained muscles. It gives a feeling of wellbeing and vitality. The end product is more energy, rather than less. 736 Try to get eight hours of sleep each night and fifteen-minute rests during the day, following overexertion; take leisurely tub baths; deliberately relax each part of the body to complete limpness. Deep breathing, also, is beneficial for a healthy emotional state. Many people find lying on a slant board or in a position which props the legs and feet higher than the head excellent for repose and for increased circulation to the face and scalp. Don't forget that your physical and emotional conditions are so deeply entwined that the one always strongly affects the other. Very often when an illness occurs, it cannot be determined what the initial cause was — the physical or the emotional. The more distraught you become, the greater is your need to force yourself to exercise, eat three balanced meals a day, stay on a schedule which will keep your mind occupied and off yourself, and get plenty of undisturbed rest. Most important: picture yourself as being well. This does not counsel you to neglect real health problems. It merely suggests that a person may easily develop the habit of minutely examining herself for possible disorders which, in time, her imagination may accommodatingly provide. 7. Don't allow yourself to be "carried away" by your emotions. You can nip them in the bud or let them barrel into a fast-moving avalanche. Don't try to push a thought or feeling out of your mind. This process will only make it stick all the tighter. Instead, force a smile, sing, "play act" the part of serenity, relax your tightened face and fist muscles — and think of something different, something uplifting and pleasant. This is the highly successful method used on small children — distraction. 8. Don't fear your condition or burdens. 'Take them out in the open and examine them as objectively and calmly as possible. Decide which troubles can be eliminated and take steps to do so. 'Those which you cannot alter or do away with, you must accept. To make the world over to suit you is a large order. If you cannot have what you like, maybe you can like what you have. Pray for strength to live with your problems or to overcome them, rather than to have them removed. Troubles of all types will be with you always. Indeed, they may be blessings in disguise. They are your building blocks to character and wisdom. Your Heavenly Father has never promised to keep pain and trouble from you, but he has assured you that you will endure "to the end" and be blessed beyond your imagination, if you keep his commandments to the best of your ability, despite the suffering and tribulations you encounter. Don't feel guilty when "bad" thoughts come to you. They come to everyone. President George Albert Smith explained once that evil comes in relishing and nourishing and encouraging bad thoughts, instead of banishing them. 9. Work in daytime compartments. 'Think only in terms of today, not the past or the future. A MESSAGE TO YOUNG MOTHERS Today is all you actually have. It is eternity. Let the future rest in God's hands, have faith. "Faith is the foundation of all things — including happiness' (PRESENT Davin O. McKay). Make each day a happy, successful one, even as if it were to be your last one. Don't make the tragic mistake of putting off happiness for a future time. 'Take it as you go along. Build up rich memories for yourself and your family. 10. Try to have some planned time away from your family. Do whatever you please with it. It gives you something to anticipate. Change brings renewal. Learn to enjoy solitude; it expands the soul. Have a creative-type hobby. 11. Welcome work. Discover the satisfaction of doing things well and efficiently, and use work to "blow off steam." You would be outrageously bored without it. 12. Don't take yourself too seriously. You have gained real maturity when you can admit your own blunders and laugh at them. Keep an open mind. Discuss, don't argue. Small minds are stubbornly closed. Great minds are humble and teachable. 13. Let your virtues speak for themselves, but take every opportunity to praise another's. Pay no attention to ill-natured remarks about yourself. So live that nobody will believe them. The worst self-destructive forces in this world are anger, resentment, and self-pity. Don't let them rob 737 OCTOBER 1963 you of your happiness. No momentary satisfaction is worth their terrible price. 14. Know that you must have self-respect before you can reach out to others. So live that you can like vourself and live on agreeable terms with yourself. "Love your neighbor as yourself." You can like yourself only when your conscience is at rest. Lying, for instance, destroys peace of mind and causes fear and inner turmoil, even when undetected. The so-called white lies can be avoided bv forethought and simple statements. Long explanations are not required. And, very, very important: Do some act of kindness for someone each day. Reach out to others unselfishly, willingly, kindly in your thoughts and actions. No one will ever find or keep a deep inner happiness who does not grow to this level. When in doubt, always do and say the kind thing. True friends enrich life. If you would have friends, be one. Be true to those who trust you. Mrs. Emma Ray McKay, wife of President David O. McKay, suggests that you meet your husband not fifty per cent of the way, but at least eighty or ninety per cent of the way. (Incidentally, she warns, also, not to expect your husband to make marriage his whole life, as it must be a woman's, and not to "cry over spilt milk.'') 15. Keep your mind full of beauttful, encouraging thoughts. Ruth May Fox used to pin songs, poems, or scriptures in front of her as she washed her dishes or ironed her 738 clothes or sewed. Thus, she was always memorizing some inspirational message. What a storehouse of help to have ever with you to call up when the need arises! When the going is good, tell yourself life is wonderful, and allow yourself the delightful feeling of being happy, enjoying the beautiful, believing the best. 16. Never say or do anything you wouldn't be willing to have your child copy — because he probably will. 17. Never overlook the boost a new hair-do and a neat, trim appearance can give you. Daintiness and attractiveness develop assurance and poise. (Don't confuse neatness with extravagant slavishness to current fashion trends, though. ) 18. Be thrifty. A most contagious sickness of the day is materialism. Don't race the "Joneses," race your own best potential. Remember the saying, "We spend money we don't have,-to buy things we don't need, to impress people we don't care for." No one can feel free under a load of debt. This is true slavery. 19. Salvage as much of each day as possible. Don't allow one slip to cancel all your efforts. Each wrong thought checked, each unkind word unspoken is a victory and a step ahead. Don't attempt to remodel yourself completely all at once. 'Take one trait at a time. Work on it alone for a week, or a month, or a year. When it is conquered, proceed to the next one. In a few years, you surely will have weeded out most of your own worst enemies. Don't ever forget the blessed principle of repentarice. "A man is far more imporant to God than the mistakes he has made. The gospel is from now on" (Marion Durr Hanks). Isaiah promises that the man who contritely and humbly forsakes his sins and asks for forgiveness will receive it. Then do not go back and dwell on them and probe into them, but rather forgive yourself your own mistakes, as you forgive your neighbors theirs, and gain wisdom through them. 20. Practice self-discipline in little measures daily until your will power grows stronger. Soon it will stand you in good stead in big emergencies. For example, force yourself out of bed earlier than necessary or give up a favorite fattening food. Do something difficult like addressing an audience or writing a note of pardon. 21. Remember escape is imposA MESSAGE TO YOUNG MOTHERS sible. You are ever with yourself. Relocation of home or job, trips, drugs, housewives going to work outside the home are common escape routes. They do not still the conscience or change the personality, however. You must achieve happrness within yourself regardless of your physical surroundings. Granted, some environments more readily lend themselves to pleasantry than others. But many of the saddest, most dejected people in the world reside in such "ideal" places; and truly joyful, contented, serene people can be found dwelling in poverty, pain, and hunger, even homeless. By now, you know how to stand squarely on your own two feet, neither clinging to your husband nor depending on your mother for your own emotional maturity. What you do with this information is up to you. Either you can use it and find hidden treasures of satisfaction and peace and happiness, or you can continue to limp through life on your self-made crutches. The decision lS yours. Watchcare Zara Sabin In the autumn tum of leaves, When the green cat-berries darken Near the river bank; when sheaves Of gamered grain stand in the fields, And all of kindly nature yields Her harvest, it is time to hearken For the call of southward flying Geese, until the cadence, dying In the dim distance, calls to mind The dear Lord's watchcare of mankind. 739 The Pendant Hazel Cheesman Do you remember those Add-APearl necklace advertisements they used to have in the magazines? That's the way my Christmases have been. Each year another perfectly matched pearl. Every year except one. That was the year my necklace was centered with a beautiful pendant, crystal-clear and precious. It wasn't just because the children were little and still at home that that Christmas was memorable. Nor had our financial circumstances improved any — we were very poor, as usual. Certainly it wasn't because I had kept my annual resolution to have all my Christmas shopping done by October. No, it was the same mad hassle as always. Late Christmas Eve found my husband and me struggling to assemble toys from directions which would have baffled a mechanical engineer; and arranging lopsided dollhouses and bowlegged kiddy cars under the fragrant nativecedar Christmas tree, the only kind recognized as authentic by our children. I moaned for my husband's benefit as we filled the stockings, but he was not deceived. Each year he waged a futile battle to have the long, brown, cotton stockings replaced with nice, hygienic bowls. But the children had inherited my preference for sentiment over sanitation, and would fall back with outraged howls at each attempt to convert them. Nobody could hang a bowl from a mantel! He tried to persuade them it wasn't necessary to hang the bowls — they could be set out on a table 740 — but that was the final blow. After a short nap, which was all the sleep we ever got or expected on Christmas Eve, we were awakened by what sounded like a runaway freight train headed for the living room. Somehow we found our robes and slippers, and led each other through the doorway. The children had turned on the tree lights and were seated in a circle, ready for the present-passing ceremony. The lumpy stockings had already vanished, confiscated in a pre-dawn raid and emptied out on the children's beds. It took time to pry them out of the welter of toys and discarded wrappings long enough for breakfast. But even though it was very late, nobody had much appetite. Sampling their stocking contents before breakfast was frowned upon, of course, but I had a sneaking feeling the rule had been broken — again. Tins was the year for spending Christmas Day with my folks — we alternated between them and my husband's family. So while he oversaw and assisted with the children's dressing, I, efficient as always, hurried to wrap my folks' presents. I always saved the wrapping papers and ribbons, carefully pressed from the year before, which necessitated extreme caution in my gift wrapping. Not only must the package match the personality of the recipient, but also I had to be sure not to use wrappings which had come from that same person last year. (The year before was all right — nobody remembered back that far.) I had had a very artistic inspiration and had cut scenes from Christmas cards (also saved from previous years) to decorate -my packages. This required extra care, so there was double danger involved, but I felt the results justified it. I remember that was the year they first came out with those fleecy lamb's wool house slippers, and | had bought my Father a pair in a dark maroon shade, which I considered the ultimate in elegance. The sheet of paper and ribbon bow which I had set aside for his package were the most beautiful in my stock, and I lingered over my Christmas cards, searching for just the right one to add the final perfect touch, until I heard my husband calling for me to hurry. When I came out, he had the children in the car. We sang lustily as we sailed over the snowy hills toward Grandma's and Grandpa's, except when we were interrupted by a fight in the back seat loud enough to drown us out. Minor — and quieter — skirmishes were ignored. We had a wonderful day in spite of too much rich food — acres of dirty dishes — and tired, cranky children. 'Toward evening the younger ones started dropping over like flies, but nobody went home. We just carried the young ones upstairs and placed them across the beds in neat rows. The survivors, with a startling lack of judgment, gathered around the big table in the center of the kitchen and helped themselves to cold turkey and mince pie, washed down with innumerable cups of cocoa. We took a long time with the THE PENDANT dishwashing — our last excuse for lingering. But when the older children started going to sleep, we had no choice — they were too heavy to carry upstairs. Everyone came out to see us off, shivering after the warmth of the house. We could see our breath — everyone was talking at once — and the clean, fresh snow squeaked beneath our feet as we moved around the circle kissing each other goodbye. My father was laughing at something one of the children had said, and, when I turned to him, he put his arms around me and just stood there for a moment. I looked over his shoulder at the golden light streaming from the open door, rich and warm as the love which had sheltered me here through all the years. Someone had left the record player on — "O Holy Night" floated clearly on the crisp air. A Christmas tree with delicately colored candles spread its dark branches across the window, and far above us huge stars sparkled in the dark blue sky. I raised my face for my father's kiss, but he just stood there with his arms around me, looking down and smiling. For a moment, in the uncertain light, I thought there were tears in his eyes. But then he said, '"Didn't we have a nice Christmas?" and his voice sounded so happy I knew I had been mistaken. A few weeks later they mailed the package back to me, and the beautiful wrappings were hardly mussed at all. He must have opened it very carefully. I still have the maroon slippers. They don't fit anyone else. 741 EDITORIAL In Time of Harvest "Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labourers into his harvest" (Mt. 9:38). Acain comes the interval season between the warm and radiant summer and the long quietness of winter. In this way autumn comes to the Northern Hemisphere, with its blessings of harvest. And in that other Hemisphere where it is now springtime and the days of blossoming, there will come also a time of harvesting according to the word of the Lord, "While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease" (Genesis 8:22). For harvest is the ingathering of that which may be reaped for the maintenance of the body and the enrichment of the mind and spirit — a time also for sharing all that is given sparingly or in abundance. So it has been throughout the centuries. So it was among the people of ancient Israel, a time for the counting of days and the beginning of a calendar, when it was given to Moses to proclaim a time of rejoicing, "And the feast of the harvest, the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown in the field: and the feast of ingathering...." So it was in later generations in a wider world when the fields turned to gold and the orchards were laden with fruit. There was also a harvest that first year on the dark New England shore. A harvest followed the first hasty planting that was made in the valleys of the mountains in late July, when the clear mountain waters were turned upon the primeval land, and prayers of hopefulness were mingled with the planting. Relief Society women, frugal and industrious in their ways, gleaned in the wheat fields in the years that followed, and they were as beautiful and as humble as Ruth of ancient times who "came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest." For the people of many centuries have rejoiced in the golden beaded wheat, the barley fields in rippled waves, and the plumes of oats, expressing gratitude for the grains choice among the plants of earth. 742 © éreen ears," when the corn was brought S and the €st ears were Toasted on the embers of Onfire Friends and relatives traveled ma On one such occasion a yj land which they had arvests, she Said, "The and this | 743 eNotes to the Field Relief Society Lessons on Talking Book Records Again Available for the Sightless Tue Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department for the Aid of the Sightless has prepared on talking book records the Relief Society Study Courses for October 1963 to May 1964. These courses include theology, the visiting teacher messages, work meeting discussions, literature, and social science. These recordings have been prepared for the use of the blind only and will be sent free to any blind person desiring them. Requests should be sent to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department for the Aid of the Sightless, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84111. Farewell to a House Well Loved Mabel Jones Gabbott I shall take the Wedgewood pitcher from the shelf, And father's desk that stands beside the door, And this hooked rug that I once made myself, And mother's maple rocker — nothing more. Now, I must say goodbye to these stucco walls, Built by my pioneer father years ago, Must bid farewell to rooms within, and halls, And to this garden where the rose and tulip grow. For just one moment I must sit again Before the fire in the inglenook, And dream of winter days and the east wind That whipped the flames up as we read The Book. And having all these memories to hold, I shall not mind because the house is sold. 744 IMikzs. HILDA ANDERSSON ERICKSON, one hundred and three years old, is the only living Latter-day Saint pioneer woman (one who crossed the plains before the coming of the railroad to Utah in 1869). Mrs. Erickson stood alone at the annual pioneer luncheon, July 24, when hundreds of guests arose and offered her a heartfelt ovation, standing until she smilingly waved them down. Mrs. Erickson has been a business woman, dentist, missionary, rancher, and banker. ELNoRA 3B. KNOPF is a_ wellknown and highly respected structural geologist. Her specialty is rock structure, and she is an authority on many areas, including the Stissing Mountains of New York State, which she describes in detail in her newest publication "Stratigraphy and Structure of the Stissing Mountain Area." WVALENTINA TERESHKOVA, a former Russian factory worker, became the first woman in space when she was launched on a flight June 16, 1963. She orbited the earth forty-eight times in seventy hours and fifty minutes. Mizs. HEIM, fifty-six, editor and founder ALICIA PATTERSON GUGGENof the Long Island newspaper Newsday, died in New York, July 2, 1963. Daughter of Joseph Medill Patterson, famous founder of the New York News, she was also a cousin of Robert R. McCormick of the Chicago Tribune. She welcomed conflicting ideas in_ her paper, especially those of her husband, with whom she frequently differed. She was considered one of the "greats" in the newspaper world, giving her paper "vitality, courage, high readability and hardhitting investigative reporting." FF RENCH MADAME ERNEST (JULIE) ROUART still lives in and cherishes the lovely home built long ago by her parents in Paris, with all its art treasures and memories. A number of the paintings were done by the early impressionists, such as Degas, Renoir, Manet, Monet, and Mary Cassat, with whom Julie's mother Berthe Morisot Manet, was a fellow artist. 'The beautiful Berthe and her lovely daughter Julie were the subjects of many of the paintings of the impressionist colony, and quite a number of them still hang in Julie's lovely ancestral home. 745 Dorothy C. Little Miaxunc frozen TV dinners is fun and economical. You will discover dozens of ideas for variety once you have tried making them! When you are in the mood to cook, prepare three or four times enough food for your family dinner, as if you were cooking for a crowd. Just cook three or four roasts instead of one, and plenty of vegetables. It doesn't take any more heat if you fill the oven full. Make your gravy a little thin. Let the extra food cool while you are eating. After dinner, line up six or eight aluminum TV dinner dishes on the counter. Aluminum pie plates may also be used. Work on only six or eight dishes at a time. Daintily slice the meat and place servings onto the dishes, using the prettiest pieces on top and hiding the fragments underneath. Cover the meat with gravy. Serve helpings of potatoes and top with butter. To make it complete you will need one more vegetable. Choose a green one if you have potatoes. These can be put onto the aluminum plates directly from opened cans. Top with butter. If you're really ambitious, make a bread dressing (plenty moist) to go with the meat, and you will have a real feast prepared! Cover each plate securely with a piece of aluminum foil on which you have previously written a label. Seal carefully and freeze. To use, put the prepared dinners directly from the freezer into the oven, leaving the foil on. 'Twenty-five to thirty minutes at 350 degrees, and dinner is ready! Always use the biggest pot you own when you cook chili or navy beans, soup, or goulash. Use what you need for a meal and freeze the rest. (Goulash should be slightly under-cooked to freeze, and partly thawed before reheating.) The oven is the easiest place in which to reheat your frozen dishes, because the heat is more constant and even, and you don't have to stand over the stove to keep the food from buming. When you make a_ casserole, double the recipe and freeze half for a later meal. There are few casseroles that will not freeze successfully. Just wait to add any crisp toppings, like crumbs, until you reheat the dish. Freeze the food in the casserole dish or pan in which you plan to reheat it, then place the container in a pan of hot water for a few seconds. Take out the block of frozen food and wrap it as you would a piece of meat. Labe! And return it to the freezer. When you reheat it, use the same utensil in which you froze it. Quite handy! 747 Part ilEvaporated Milk Marion Bennion, Ph. D., Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition Sadie O. Mortis, Ph. D., Department of Food and Nutrition Brigham Young University Mux may be concentrated by removing part of the water from it. Evaporated milk is whole milk which has had about half of the water removed, after which it has been sealed in a can and sterilized. Most of the evaporated milks on the market have had vitamin D added to them to increase the nutritive value of the milk. A similar amount of water to that which has been removed in processing may be returned to the milk, and the milk may then be used in any way that whole milk might have been used, as a beverage or in food preparation. Since the milk has been heated to a high temperature for sterilization, the flavor will be somewhat changed but is still acceptable, even as a beverage. Usually equal amounts of water and evaporated milk are mixed to give a milk about equal to whole milk. Evaporated milk may be used 748 without the addition of any water in many recipes. Because it is concentrated, it gives more creamy, smooth characteristics to many foods than does regular milk. Soups, gravies, sauces, casserole dishes, puddings, all have a richer flavor and creamier texture when made with evaporated milk. As with dry milk, the nutritive value of some recipes may be actually increased by using evaporated milk in its original form. For example, bread may be made with different proportions of evaporated milk and water. The nutnents especially increased by the use of evaporated milk are calcium, riboflavin, and good quality protein. The following chart shows the change in calcium and riboflavin when a loaf of white enriched bread is made with different proportions of evaporated milk and water. q fi hi Calcium Riboflavin (mg.) (mg. "" evap. Milk "2 water 404 1.3 24, evap. Milk ¥ water 462 1.4 % evap. Milk "4 water 524 1.6 The texture, color, and flavor of the bread will be somewhat different from that made with less milk or all water. The color will be more creamy and the bread more moist and less crumbly. When evaporated milk is chilled icy cold it may be whipped and used in fruit whips, Bavarian creams, salads, refrigerator desserts, and toppings. The addition of two teaspoons of lemon juice for each %4 cup evaporated milk will give a more stable whipped topping and also adds a pleasing flavor. While evaporated milk may be stored for several months, it is recommended that the cans or cases be turned upside down about every month. This prevents thickening and clotting of the milk. Since evaporated milk has been sterilized, it is a safe food supply. In the unopened can it may be kept for long periods of time without refrigeration, but as soon as the can is opened it must be kept in the refrigerator like any other milk. Evaporafed Milk Recipes White Bread "2 ¢. + 1 tbsp. Warm water 1% tbsp. Sugar 1% tsp. Salt ' pkg. Yeast, dry or compressed 1 tbsp. Oil or soft shortening *'4 c. + 1 tbsp. Evaporated milk 1% c. Flour, plus enough additional flour to make a soft dough that leaves the sides of the bowl. Measure lukewarm water and sugar into large mixing bowl. Crumble compressed or dry yeast into mixture. (Use warm water 110-115° F with active dry yeast.) Stir and dissolve. Add salt, shortening, and milk. Sift flour and add to first ingredients and mix together thoroughly. Add enough additional flour to make a soft dough (approximately 3-3% c.). When dough leaves the sides of the bowl, turn it out onto a lightly floured board and knead until smooth and elastic. It should no longer stick to board. Shape into ball 749 and place in clean bowl, grease lightly on top, and allow to rise until double in bulk. Bake in preheated oven at 400° F. For about 35 minutes. Turn out of pan when baked and cool on racks. *For additional nutritive value, the amount of evaporated milk may be increased, at the same time decreasing the amount of warm water and flour as shown below: c. Warm water c. Evaporated milk 2% c. Flour C. % c. Warm water % c. + 2 tbsp. Evaporated milk 2% c. Flour Oatmeal Bread (no knead) 2 pkg. Active dry yeast "A c. Warm water % c. Boiling water 1 ¢. Quick cooking rolled oats ' c. Molasses ¥% c. Shortening 1 tbsp. Salt *1 c. Evaporated milk 2 slightly beaten eggs 6 c. Sifted flour Soften yeast in warm water. In large bowl combine boiling water with rolled oats, molasses, shortening, and salt. Cool to lukewarm. Stir in 2 c. Sifted flour, add eggs and evaporated milk, beat well. Stir in softened yeast. Add remaining flour, 2 c. At a time, to make moderately stiff dough. Beat until smooth and gluten is developed. Grease lightly on top, cover tightly, and refrigerate at least 2 hours or overnight. Turn out onto well floured board, shape into 2 loaves, put in loaf pans. Let double in bulk. Bake about 40 minutes at 375° F. Turn out of pans when baked and cool on racks. *If nonfat dry milk is used in place of evaporated milk, use % c. Regular nonfat dry milk (or 34 c. Instant nonfat dry milk) and increase boiling water from %c. To 1% ¢. Macaroni Supreme 1 C. Macaroni 1% tbsp. Margarine or butter, 750 2 tbsp. Flour ° % tsp. Salt % c. Hot water (or liquid off vegetables) % c. Evaporated milk 1% c. Grated cheddar cheese, sharp 4 hard-cooked eggs, sliced Cook macaroni in boiling water until tender; drain. Melt margarine in saucepan; add flour and salt and stir. Cook until bubbly. Quickly add hot water, stirring constantly; bring mixture quickly to a boil. Remove from heat and stir in evaporated milk. Return to heat and bring back to boiling and cook about 2 minutes over moderate heat. Remove from heat and add grated cheese. Place over low heat and stir until blended. Place macaroni in greased baking dish, cover with sliced eggs, and add cheese sauce. Sprinkle buttered crumbs over top. Brown in moderate oven, 375° F., for 20-25 minutes. Yield: six servings. Old-Fashioned Butterscotch Pudding "2 ¢. Brown sugar Y cup less 1 tbsp. Granulated sugar % c. Flour % tsp. Salt ' c. Water % c. Evaporated milk 2 eggs "4 c. Water 1 tbsp. Butter or substitute 7 tsp. Vanilla Mix together sugar, flour, and _ salt. Add % c. Water and blend until smooth. Add evaporated milk. Place on burner and bring to boiling, stirring constantly. Cook about 2 minutes over moderate heat. Meanwhile, beat the eggs with %4 c. Water. Add the egg-water mixture to the cooked starch paste and blend. Cook over low heat for 3-4 minutes until egg is cooked. Remove from heat; add butter and vanilla. Pour into — serving dishes and chill. Garnish with whipped topping and nuts or a cherry. Or, one egg white may be saved to use as a meringue on top of the pudding. For meringue, gradually beat in 2 tbsp. Sugar and whip until stiff. Place meringue on top of each pudding and heat in 400° F. Oven until lightly browned. Yield: 4-5 servings. Ironing Whar are you thinking about when you wash your dishes? What are you thinking about when you iron the wrinkles out of your husband's shirt, when you scrub the floor, when you make the beds? I have a habit of making up sermons. Some may not be too good, but I always take the main theme from my project at hand. Now this is sort of the pattern of my thinking — ironing out the wrinkles. As my steam iron tackles the wrinkles of my son's trousers, I think of the many wrinkles we have in our lives to iron out. There is the wrinkle of worry — this is such a waste of time — worrying about the accident that may befall one of the children, worrying about the new dress that has to be finished, worrying about correspondence that is way past due — worrying about a meeting that you should attend — about a lesson that you have to prepare. This list could go on forever, because there are plenty of things to worry about. However, maybe if you made a list of the things you are worrying about, posted it at hand in the kitchen, and then, one by one, started chalking them off, the procedure would be helpful. I think perhaps when you start writing some of them you will realize how foolish you are to worry about so many things that you can't do anything about. Worrying takes energy, and it can cause headaches, chronic illness, and certainly an unhappy home. As a young girl, I always memorized poetty while ironing. Many of you watch television, but I rather like this idea of philosophizing — I have plenty of wrinkles that need ironing out. Maybe its gossip, maybe selfishness, maybe jealousy — there are endless wrinkles to be ironed out. I have come to think of household tasks as my best thinking time. Normally, the task at hand that you dislike the most is the one that you don't have to concentrate on — one that gives no real challenge to the mind — so now use this time, which is usually worry time, to iron out the wrinkles in your lives. Count Your Blessings - Not Troubles Ursula King Bell Count your blessings — not your troubles, Talk about the good things of life to others, Not your problems, for all have enough to endure. Endeavor to keep your mind and hands busy, With useful work and pleasant thoughts. 751 Check Your Sewing Equipment Shirley Thulin AAxx set for your important sewing projects? Now is a good time to check your sewing equipment. There are so many new items on the market, it would be well to check with your department and chain stores to look over the time and work savers they have to offer. Sewing aids, which today are a far cry from the bare essentials that filled great-grandmother's sewing basket, range from a tailor-tacking device that marks both sides of a fabric simultaneously to a new kind of pin that has no head. Buttons, which have achieved new heights of decorative beauty, while maintaining their age-old function, should be chosen wisely. Select buttons before cutting the buttonhole. Sew a shankless button (one which has holes through it) across a pin that has been held in place on top of the button between the holes. 'This makes a longer, more flexible shank of thread and provides a "give" so the buttons will not pop off so easily. Buy a good supply of simple buttons to use in replacement and mending jobs, or, to be more thrifty, save for future use, all trimming and utility buttons from worn-out clothing. These reserve buttons may be classified by threading together buttons of like size. Chalk is a useful addition to any sewing room. Now used in automatic skirt markers, the chalk squirts in a fine stream for accurate marking in response to pressure on a rubber bulb. Tailor's chalk is made of clay and is now available in red, blue, black, white, and yellow. A well-equipped sewing basket always offers a small store of sequins, ribbons, lace, elastic, rickrack, and other trimming to offer inspiration for a professional finishing touch. Be sure to have varying threads and machine needle sizes to go with fabrics you may be using in the coming season. 752 There are gadgets such as the bodkin, a large-eyed blunt needle for drawing tape or ribbon through a loop or hem; needle threaders; button gauges, which simplify button sewing by forming a shank automatically; and a sewing bird which holds your fabric firmly in its head, leaving both hands free to hem and baste. Don't forget to look at the new seam rippers, sewing tweezers, and a dozen other sewing helps. Also, be sure to provide a varied supply of snaps, hooks and eyes, interfacings of neutral colors, mending aids, linings, good scissors to fit each cutting job, and thread, tapes, measuring devices, and zippers. A new product — colorless thread — is now available in some stores, and many seamstresses have found it to be a useful substitute for having on hand a variety of color in sewing thread. If you take care of all these sewing needs, then you can sit down to sew without any interruptions, or running to the store for one thing at a time. 753 AY Cellar'ot: ' Long Ago Vliriam R. Anderson Pati A: Grampa's farm, a trip to the cellar, that dim, mysterious region underground, was spine-tingling adventure. Here the gifts of the summer were stored, cool] and dry. The good Michigan earth formed the floor, and this pungent, full-bodied aroma was intoxicating fragrance to eight-year-old nostrils. Grandma's "Do you want to get some potatoes for supper?" was, I am now certain, a cleverly executed ruse perpetrated for my occupation and amusement. Across the wide years, I still remember the twinkle in her eyes that accompanied the words. While I quivered with anticipation, which was fringed with a delicious awe at the thought of the dark, cavernous depths to which I would soon descend alone, she lighted the kerosene lantern. As always I received grandmotherly warnings and advice as to its use. Then with my Indian-made_basket, I started on mv adventure. It really began in the stillness on the stairs. The qmet dnfting up from the cellar was not like any other part of the house. The muffled footsteps of an occasional walker overhead and the creak-creak of ancient beams and rafters only mag- 754 nified it. The stillness here had height, breadth, and body. The infrequent scurryings of a mouse, alarmed at this trespass of -her domain, accentuated it. There was the echo of my boots, tentatively trying for the next step down the steep, old-fashioned stairs. (For the house had been built in the "eighties." ) There were misty cobwebs in the stair ceiling corners, where I knew spider life was going on, in its own mysterious way. Then, stepping on the earth floor, there was an enveloping pure quiet. Dark vistas ranged away behind the used part of the cellar; the mingled aroma of lantern and cellar assailed me with lovely excitement. I drew deep breaths of the tantalizing, acrid sweetness of stored fruit, the crisp breath of cabbage, rutabagas, turnips, potatoes, and onions. The apple smell (for this was apple country) was alone worth the venture. Over all was the permeating moist odor of the earth floor. (What Indians might have lived right here — in times gone by?) I would think. I knew they were Chippewas — but what were their names? By deep enough toe diggings with my boots, | "might even uncover an arrowhead! Hlopive the lantern high, the shelves with their orderly rows of shining jars of preserves, fruit, vegetables, and pickles, sat complacently smug, forming a tidy world of their own above the bins of vegetables. Here, indeed, was a journey into the mysterious and adult world of industry, responsibility, and providence. Well I knew that weeks of toil and expert handling had gone on in the summer kitchen before those jars had come to rest in their appointed places, provision against the bitter northern winter. I had helped Harry, the hired man, tug in bushel baskets of crimson, succulent tomatoes from the fields. They joined ranks with the baskets of slender green cucumbers, yellow onions, creamy cauliflowers, and red and green peppers. The tantalizing breath of chili sauce, tomato catsup, and piccalilli had filled the farmhouse for days. Then Grandma and Sarah, Harry's wife, had begun on the apple butter which, it seemed to me, had simmered for days to spicy, bubbling thickness on the wood range. Therehad been also the aroma of cloves in the pickled peaches, without which no Michigan Thanksgiving or Christmas festivity would be complete. Looking at the colorful perfection of the jars, I could almost smell the dill, the spices and seasonings that had gone into their making. On these shelves the fruits of the summer just past awaited our pleasure. Trim rows of green and gold pickles made pleasurable contrast to the red richness of tomato preserves. There were butter-yellow peaches, arranged tidily, rounded side out to the jar. 'There was the pale, oblong lusciousFARM CELLAR OF LONG AGO ness of pears; the purple warmth of plums and huckleberries waiting for their winter pie crusts. 'There were the coral and green of cool, crisp watermelon pickle segments; the midnight darkness of blackberry jam; the cheery globes of the pinkskinned crab apples, which I knew, would eventually accompany roast duck. There were crocks of pickles, too, for more immediate use, and crocks full of aromatic sauerkraut. Here was the very heart of summer dressed in brilliant array. Here were July, August, and September — kept for remembrance when silent snow etched field and bush. Here, too, was romance for an eight-yearold; adventure and love of life and living, spiked with the spices of Araby! In awe I regarded the treasure, dawdling; reveling in color, scent, and imaginations which sailed through my mind on the sea of childish fancy. But I could not tarry much longer, not if there were to be boiled potatoes for supper, dressed with sour cream.... I dived into the potato bin almost regretfully, while the potatoes, pumpkins, squash, beets, and carrots seemed to wink at me. We had achieved a sort of communication in this visit. 'They were good, honest vegetables, waiting their turn to serve, in their way. I felt a peculiar kinship with them — with the entire cellar. I reached in to select the last smooth-skinned, knobby potato, and picked up the lantern. On_ the stairs, I glanced back once. Goodbye, cellar of summer. ['Il carry you in a safe place, close to my heart — until another visit. 755 Quilts That Tell a Story For Mrs. Delila Boice Asay, Lovell, Wyoming, each of the many quilts she has made seems to tell a story of the pleasures of gift making and giving. She has made a quilt for each of her ten children, and for each of her forty grandchildren. Her quilts are beautifully designed and expertly stitched and bound. She knits stoles and afghans, makes rugs, and does beautiful crochet work. Mrs. Asay, also, is devoted to genealogy work and makes record books for members of her family. She is an expert in growing flowers, and is noted for her skill in telling pioneer histories and incidents. ES eee "Fy be $ PL gf Se Nellie Ormond Gibson Mrs. Nellie Ormond Gibson, Rupert, Idaho, considers quilting her major hobby. In addition to the many quilt patterns commonly used, she creates her own designs in patchwork and in the quilting patterns. She loves radiant colors and is skillful in combining tones and tints of material attractively. Her crochet work is exquisitely made, with many designs of her own making. Mrs. Gibson also makes many useful and colorful braided rugs, such as those illustrated in the picture. She has developed a unique method of fastening the braids together with heavy cord which is so integrated in the material that it cannot be seen. A rug which Mrs. Gibson made for a friend's cabin was braided from womout blankets in which the colors were still deep and vibrant, and the rug added much interest to the decor of the cabin. Her six children and all her grandchildren have been recipients of lovely gifts carefully made and "interwoven with love," as she explains the process. 756 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the four younger children in the family go from their home on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui, to Honolulu to meet the eldest daughter Emma Lu, who has graduated as a nurse in San Francisco and is returning home. Emma Lu brings with her Margaret Lester, sister-in-law of Luana, who has come for a visit. Emma Lu tells her mother that she has become engaged to a Sherman Grant, in San Francisco. However, Luana is concerned when Larry Brown, a schoolday sweetheart of Emma Lu's meets the family in Honolulu and appears to be still in love with her. Tue Harrington family gazed in wonder at the golden letters Emma Lu on Larry's airplane. They were at the Honolulu airport and ready to take off for Maui. Larry insisted on flying them home in his own plane. "This is my surprise for Emma Lu," he told them, as his fingers traced the letters of her name on his blue airplane. "Every man has a sweetheart that he never forgets," he went on dreamily. "That's why every plane I ever own will be named Emma Lu." There was a golden silence. Even Ben had a look of enchantment on his strong face. "Hapazulani!" Benjy breathed, holding his sister's hand. "A plane named for you, Emma Lu! That's better than a monkey. 'That's better than any other surprise, I'll bet!" 757 OCTOBER 1963 "That's not better than Phil's surprise," Bo objected, "because he brought Larry." "That's right," Phil "Don't you boys forget it." Emma Lu did not speak. Only the soft curve of her lips betrayed her emotion. Luana turned away and stepped into the plane. "Smile, my dear," 'Tutu whispered, as they seated themselves. "Do not let the children feel your disturbance. And they will, you know. A mother's thought is so close with her children. Do not disturb their joy at the end of a glorious holiday. We must be gay." "T will try, Tutu," Luana answered. "Shall we sing?" Tutu called to everyone. "Why sure!" Larry called back. "There's a uke in the rack above your head. Here, Phil, strum this old guitar. I always carry these along. You lead, Tutu." A minute later she was strumming the ukelele, then her low, rich voice hummed an old Hawaiian lullaby. Ben's heavy baritone chimed with hers, and Phil's tenor was high and clear. Even the twins have good voices, Luana thought as everyone joined in. "Sing, Mama," Pixie coaxed, turning to look at Luana. "You come sit with Daddy — you sing so pretty together. I'll sit with Tutu." As Luana lifted her voice with Ben's, her heart lifted, too. It was a glorious ride above the moonlit water. The sky seemed made of another blue tonight, a deep lustrous blue with dazzling stars. She leaned her head against Ben's laughed. 758 shoulder, loving his deep, humming voice. Even though it was an untrained voice, it had power and tone. What is it, she wondered, tenderly, that brings a man and woman together, even from the far corners of the earth — a touch, a look, a certain knowing, and they are in love. They belong together; from that moment they will find the stars together. So it had been with her and Ben. Sweethearts through storm or shine. Tey ended that song and began another, and another. Luana knew that Tutu would soon begin the Marine hymn. She never let the children forget their father's bravery during the war. "From the Halls of Montezuma" soon echoed through the plane. Luana felt Ben's arm tighten around her. He, too, was remembering those long vears of hardship and separation. Gently, reverently, Tutu led them into "Come, Come, Ye Saints." The whole, starry night was filled with melody, and with the courage and strength that song always gives to those who love it. Time and the world stood still. The twins slept peacefully against Phil's shoulders, and Pixie leaned near Tutu who held her, lovingly. Pixie had been troubled lately, Luana had _ noticed. Sometimes when she came home from school she was restless and moody. But tonight she had sung gaily, and now she was resting. 'Tutu can give peace to anyone, Luana thought. She is a peacemaker, and that is a precious gift. It was Tutu, she remembered, who had calmed her fears when Ben was on the battlefront in the war; it was Tutu who had soothed her when Emma Lu was born, while Ben was still in Guadalcanal; and it was Tutu who had taught her to trust the Heavenly Father in every family crisis. "He is the all-wise, loving Parent," she always said. "He knows what is best for all of us, and the lessons we must learn." The plane sped quietly through the silver night, like a big bird winging homeward. Luana could hear Larry, Emma Lu, and Margaret talking together. "How do you like Hawaii?" Larry asked Margaret. Margaret's voice was ecstatic. "I'm entranced," she said. "I can hardlv wait to start painting. Such gorgeous color and setting." "Say, Margaret!" Larry snapped his fingers. "I just thought of something. Why don't you enter the Andrus McDougal Contest for Hawaiian Art? There's a big prize — ten thousand dollars, I think." "How wonderful!" Margaret exclaimed. "I can surely try to win it. Ig ana's heart sank dismally. Oh, no, she thought. No! No! No! That was her contest this year. She had her painting ready to mail. That was her surprise for her family. The prize money would pay to have Pixie's teeth straightened, and send Philip to college, and give Emma Lu an appropriate wedding reception. And it would ease the pressure of her husband's financial burdens on the plantation. She put her hands over her ears. KISS OF THE WIND She could not bear to hear them talk about it. But thoughts tumbled through her mind. Margaret had won many art contests. She was an established artist. She knew how to paint the kind of picture that won contests. Luana had heard her tell how she searched for a setting or a subject that would intrigue the judges; how she spent days before she ever began to paint, looking for the exact spot, or the right coloring, or the perfect time of day or night. Compared to Margaret, Luana realized she was merely an amateur. The thought of it made her weak with frustration. Ben was gazing out of the window at the big pearly moon. He was not aware that Luana was upset. She felt the plane descending. Then she saw the lights of the Maui airport beneath them. "Fasten your seat belts," Larry called. He dipped the plane and the jolt awakened everyone. "Make it somersault," yelled. "Not tonight, Benjy," he said. "That's only for show. Tonight I have a precious cargo." He set the plane down with the ease and precision of the professional pilot. "Right on the nose!" Phil said, with an admiring glance at Larry as they stepped out of the plane. "Now look," he went on. "Everybody wait here. I'll bring the car." 'Me, too," Bo said. He and Benjy ran after him. Benjy Luana took a deep breath. 'The Harrington's were always hospitable. She must show her appreciation for their wonderful ride home. 759 OCTOBER 1963 "Come home with us, Larry," she said. "We'll have bengals and ham and ginger punch. And _ those coconut cookies you used to like." Their eyes met. Larry was pleased, but he shook his head. "Thanks, Mrs. Harrington," he said. "I appreciate your invitation, but I'm due out on a run to Sydney at four a. M. It's been a great day," he added, his voice melting. "Like old times." He turned back to the plane. Emma Lu was standing beside it, gazing at her name in golden letters. Ben touched Luana's arm. They stood together, watching Larry and Emma Lu, whose face was upturned to his. Their lips met as his arms went around her in a lingering embrace. Ben saw them, too. The world around them all was suddenlv very still. A moment out of time. At last Emma Lu walked slowly toward her parents, and Larry hurried to the main office. Her face was pale as marble in the moonlight. When she was near enough Luana noticed that the Roselani lei around her neck was crushed and withered. Her hands fluttered to the petals as if she would keep them from falling off. "My girls," Ben said softly, slipping an arm around each of them, as they followed Tutu and Margeret to the car. Luana glanced sideways at Emma Lu. Her cheeks were wet and shiny with tears. She is no longer a girl, Luana thought achingly. She is a woman who knows love and must make decisions. Tix: Harringtons always had their family prayer, but first they sat 760 around the big table on the lanai. Ben opened the Bible and read a favorite psalm. 'Then they knelt beside their chairs for prayer. Tonight, it was Benjy's turn to pray aloud. Luana followed her twin boys to their bedroom, as she always did. There was never a night that she did not have a quiet moment with each of her children, a moment of understanding, when all little faults and unkind acts were forgiven. But tonight Bo was already asleep, as she tucked the coverlet over him. Benjy pulled her down beside him. He still wore his lollipop lei over his pajamas. "T love you, Mama," he whispered sleepily. "You're the best Mother in all the world — even in the Mainland." Luana smiled. The Mainland had become very important to the children now that Hawaii was the fiftieth State in the Union. Phil was standing by the window when she-went to his room. He was looking up at the moon, his eyes puzzled. "Are you cross at me, Mom?" he questioned as he turned to her. "About Larry, I mean? I thought you weren't yourself today — not as gay." "No — I'm not cross with you, son," she answered, thoughtfully. "But I am disturbed about Larry and Emma Lu. There is another boy in. Her life, Philip. In San Francisco. You knew nothing about him so don't blame yourself. There was no time for her to tell anyone but me." "Another boy!" he repeated. "You mean — serious?" Luana nodded. "Engaged," she told him. "Wouldn't you call that very serious?" "Yes " his voice caught. "Yes, I would, Mom. How could she do that to Larry, when she knows he's completely gone on her. My sister! I'd like to tell her off!" Luana put her fingers on his lips. "No, Philip," she coaxed. "It's not your place to tell your sister off. I am trying to let her make up her own mind. You should do the same. I told you because I expect you to be mature about it. Someday you will bring a special girl home to meet your family, and you will want me to be fair enough to see her through your eyes. Shall we let Emma Lu have that privilege, too?" He flopped onto the bed. His face relaxed in a boyish grin. "Sure, Mom," he said, lifting his head for her goodnight kiss. "Sure but it's a tough break for somebody." Walking down the hallway toward her bedroom, Luana noticed the lights were out in Margaret's bedroom and in Tutu's, too. They were asleep, no doubt, after an exciting day. She hesitated by Emma Lu's and Pixie's room, where the door was half open and the light still on. Pixie was fast asleep in her twin bed, but Emma Lu was not there. Six opened the door to her own bedroom. Emma Lu was seated on an Ottoman in front of Ben, who was in his armchair. Luana took her place quietly beside him. His big hands were laced together, the knuckles showing white. His dark KISS OF THE WIND eyes looked hurt, but he was listening with quiet restraint. "T was telling Daddy about Sherman," she said. "I met him at Bishop Hammond's home. You remember I've written about them. They were so nice to me. They had Sunday night suppers after church, and this night Sherman was there. He handed me a glass of punch. We smiled together. I couldn't see anyone else after that. I am so proud to be engaged to Sherman." She met their eyes with an expression as sweet and honest as a child's first prayer. Ben said in a tight voice, "You did not act like a girl who is engaged to marry another man when you were with Larry today." "I know I didn't, Daddy," she answered. "But please... Try to understand. I had to see Larry again sooner or later. I told Sherman that I had to see him again. I had to know for sure that I am free from his charm. Daddy." She reached for Ben's hand and held it in both of hers. "There is always a boy like Larry Brown in every gitl's life. Even while we are in love with him and fascinated, still.. We know all along that he isn't the one we want to marry. Today, when I saw Larry again he was part of my Hawaii — part of my girlhood — part of the blue sky and the white glistening sand and the mystic moonlight." Ben's dark brows drew together. "T saw you kiss him, Emma Lu," he said. "Your mother and I saw you kiss him." "T know," she answered. "That 761 OCTOBER 1963 was a goodbye kiss, Daddy. Our aloha kiss. Larry flies to Sydney in the morning. No doubt he has a sweetheart there. I told him about Sherman. That we will be married this summer in the Temple at Laie. Larry and I won't be seeing each other anymore." Her lips trembled, and she bent her head. They were silent for a moment. When she lifted her head, her voice was steady. "Daddy," she said, "I was attracted to Sherman because he is the same kind of man that you are — stalwart and dependable. You have always been my ideal. You and Mama should have trusted me enough to know I wouldn't choose a husband who didn't meet your high standards." Ben drew a long, relieved breath. He got to his feet and straightened his broad shoulders. "Good girl!" he said, with his big smile. "You have my blessing." "Mine, too," Luana said. "If he is like your Daddy, I couldn't ask for a better husband for my daughtem" Emma Lu hugged them both. Luana noticed shadows of worry deepen in Ben's eyes. Probably thinking of the expense of fitting out Emma Lu, Luana thought. Ben spoke, "It takes a great deal of ready cash to keep this plantation going. ~I'm one of the last independent owners. Nearly all of my friends have sold out to the corporation. I'm trying to hold on " Luana's heart reached out to him, wanting to help him. She must help him. She must win the artist's contest, she thought, desperately. (To be continued) Old Wagon Wheel Jeanette Swanson A wheel encrusted in an ironwood tree! How came it here, as if a hasty hand Had cast it out? Did some catastrophe Wipe out a lonely, west-bound band? 762 Perhaps the emigrants made camp one night Beside the wash, and warriors found them there Unguarded and alone.... Only the desert moonlight Witnessed the deed; heard the cries of despair. Perhaps they paused for noontide rest In dappled shade, and carelessly threw out This wheel we find embedded in the breast Of an ironwood, now grown old and stout. We only dream. No one now can reveal How came this alliance of tree and wheel. ieaieraa "Rom THE HEL General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Organize a Relief Society, March 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Ened Allen, First Counselor; Sara Nichols, President; Zelma R. West, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society; Opal Sabey, Secretary, Bermuda Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Lola Turek; LaVerne Guymon; Beth Mathis, Magazine representative; Patricia Doane. Sister West reports: "We are so pleased with the Relief Society organization in Bermuda. The first meeting was held in March of this year. All the sisters expressed their happiness at having the Relief Society lessons as a pattern to guide their lives as wives and mothers, and they are thrilled with the opportunity to study and work together. At the social which they gave for President West and me, the attractive refreshment table was centered with a lovely cake decorated with pansies in Relief Society colors, and with the words 'Welcome to the Bermuda Relief Society' written on top." 763 North Sevier Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music For Many Occasions Gladys Johnson, President, North Sevier Stake Relief Society, stands at the right on the second row, with Bernece Mickelsen, chairman, next to her; Wilma Sorensen, director, is seated in the center on the front row, with LaJuana and Rozena Bastian, organists, on each side respectively. Sister Johnson reports: "We are very proud of our Singing Mothers. They have sung for many occasions. Many hours have been spent in practicing for conferences, concerts, and funerals. We have been very thrilled with the response of our sisters and especially appreciative of the untiring efforts of our chorister and our organists. Our Singing Mothers sing three times a year at quarterly conferences, at our conventions, and on many occasions for civic meetings and for concerts in the surrounding communities. We are very grateful to our Singing Mothers for the time they unselfishly give to bring joy and spirituality to the hearts of others through their beautiful singing." Provo Stake (Utah), Provo First Ward Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers at a Special Meeting, March 26, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Gertrude Steel; Dorothy Cassity; Martha Jones; Mary Ward; Elizabeth Phillips; Matilda S. Andrus; Sarah Jones; Millie R. Robinson. Second row, standing, left to right: Counselor Donna Winkler; President La Von Keith; Counselor Ione Hales; Eva M. Stagg; Emma Rasmussen; Martha Sorenson; Vilate Strong; Henserria Bun; Florence Billings. Back row, standing, left to right: Bishop Armold Davis; stake officers: Education Counselor Virginia Keeler; Relief Society President Hazel K. Petersen; Work Director Counselor Mary Day. Sister Petersen reports: "Eighteen members of the Provo First Ward Relief Society were given special recognition at a meeting honoring the visiting teachers on March 26th. Fourteen of these active sisters, whose totaled ages make more than one thousand years, were present. "A delightful program, which included tributes to the visiting teachers, was presented. Especially significant, it was pointed out, was the record of one hundred per cent visiting teaching for three years. A corsage was presented to each person present. Bishop Arnold Davis was a special guest, as were members of the stake Relief Society presidency." French Mission, Paris Military Branch Relief Society Celebrates the Anniversary of Relief Society, March 23, 1963 Seated at the table, left to right: Melba Carlsen, social science class leader; Boneta Mortensen, literature; Sharon Afflect, First Counselor; Carol Heinz, President; Helene Huff, Second Counselor; Dorothy Carter, Secretary-Treasurer; guest speaker, Patricia Draper. Standing fifth and sixth from right: Merlene Mayfield, theology class leader; Ila Jean Nelson, work meeting leader. Lucilla May Hinckley, President, French Mission Relief Society, reports: "A Fondue Luncheon was served and a visiting American sister from the Versailles Branch, Sister Patricia Draper, told the group of the origin and purpose of Relief Society from the beginning m Nauvoo to the present day. Our Relief Society in the Paris Branch has been blessed this year with excellent teachers to present the wonderful lessons which are provided for us. Our numbers are small, but we are constantly striving to uplift one another and every effort is made to carry out the full Relief Society program." 764 OCTOBER 1963 South Cottonwood Stake (Utah), South Cottonwood Ward Visiting Teachers Complete Thirteen Years of One Hundred Per Cent Visiting Teaching, February 1963 Luella W. Finlinson, President, South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, stands at the right in the second row; seated in front are the members of the present presidency of South Cottonwood Ward, left to right: First Counselor Inez H. Boelter; President Mary D. Twitchell; Second Counselor Lorraine S. Poulson; Secretary-Treasurer Maxine W. Davies. Sister Finlinson reports: "The goal of one hundred per cent visiting teaching was set up in 1949 by President Vera D. Matthews and her Secretary Fern Erekson, who were concerned about the record of visiting teaching being done in the ward at that time. With the exception of one district, one month, during that year, they would have achieved a one hundred per cent record for fourteen years. Each succeeding president has continued the good work started. Now it is a fine tradition and an integral part of Relief Society in this ward. Since then, this original ward has been divided until now it is a stake, with each new ward carrying on the same goal, and with only a very few times failing to achieve it. In fact, the South Cottonwood Second Ward has just completed its eleventh year of one hundred per cent visiting teaching. One of the goals of the stake Relief Society is to have every ward in the stake with one hundred per cent visiting teaching. We are well on our way to achieving this." San Bernardino Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, March 1963 Front row, at the left: Marilyn Stewart, San Bernardino Stake Primary Association President, and Iris B. Brown, President, San Bernardino Stake Relief Society; at the right in the front row: Catherine Rich, of the General Board of the Primary Association, and Edith S. Elliott, of the General Board of Relief Society; front row, center, in dark dresses: Marietta Walker, chorister, and Vera Millet, organist. Sister Brown reports: "This Singing Mothers group sang at the March 17th stake conference. 'They also presented a concert 'Night of Song,' May 2, 1963. This proved very successful, both as a stake affair and as a missionary effort." Palo Alto Stake (California) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention February 21, 1963 Front row, left to right: Flora Marshall; Myra Thulin; Susie Beattie; Lillie Anderson; Margaret Dickerson; Erma Clark. Back row, left to right: Tessie Marshal; Alvina Spicer; Vivian Anderson; Lottie Hansen; Ivy Pearson; Enid Starkweather; Alice Malin; Dean White; Hepsy Burch; Violet Smith; Opal Miller. Delores Egan, President, Palo Alto Stake Relief Society, reports: ""These sisters were honored on this special occasion for their twenty-five years and more of devoted service as visiting teachers. Each was presented a beautiful corsage and bookmark award. The highlight of the program was the presentation 'A Light Shining,' giving encouragement and inspiration to the visiting teacher program. Accompanying the presentation was the beautiful singing of the Singing Mothers. Delicious refreshments were served from a most decorative table. We feel this event was very successful and inspirational for all visiting teachers. New members of the Church in attendance showed great interest. We feel that this was a help to the fellowship program in our stake. "The meeting was saddened by the absence of Nancy Woodward, a member of the stake board who was killed the previous week end in an automobile accident. Her contributions and capabilities will be greatly missed. She was loved and honored by all who knew her." 766 LOL Q1ald JHL WOUd SALON OCTOBER 1963 East Pocatello Stake (Idaho), Pocatello Sixth Ward Presents Play in Commemoration of Relief Society Anniversary, March 12, 1963 Standing, left to right: Helen Lystrup; Vesta Johnson; Cecille Hendricks; Koye Nielsen; Hattie Davis. Seated, Elder Claude Bollschweiler of the ward bishopric, who portrayed the Prophet Joseph Smith. The sisters in the picture represented the officers of the first Relief Society. Veneta Bollschweiler, President, East Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: " "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do' was the theme of the commemoration of the 1218t birthday of Relief Society in the Pocatello Sixth Ward this year. An original play, written by social science class leader Renee Wight, depicted the organization of the first Relief Society on March 17, 1842." Eastern Atlantic States Mission, Cumberland (Maryland) Branch Presents "Relief Society Memory Book," March 16, 1963 Front row, left to right: Mary Ricewick; Connie Reynolds; Helen Spencer; Erma Bentley; Sandra Bower; Annabell Gordon. Back row, left to right: Gail Brant; Nora Jenkins; Doris Hendershot, President, Cumberland Branch Relief Society; Violet Steele; Helen Henderson; Ruby Landis. Center, seated: Arvilla Hyer, President, Blue Ridge District Relief Society. Bernice P. Hutchings, President, Eastern Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Cumberland (Maryland) Branch of the Blue Ridge District, presented the program 'Relief Society Memory Book' at a district anniversary party. Each of the nine General Presidents of Relief Society was portrayed in a costume contemporaneous with her period of presidency." Western States Mission, Clovis (New Mexico) Branch Relief Society Celebrates Anniversary, March 27, 1963 Left to right: Jean Reynolds; Hettie Keyworth; Marjorie Robinson, Second Counselor; Maxine Keck, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary Toyn, President. Ada S. Christiansen, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Society sisters and guests of the Clovis Branch celebrated the birthday of Relief Society in the home of President Mary Toyn. 'There were thirty-one present, and all enjoyed a delicious buffet of ham and chicken ring, with all the trimmings, prepared by the executive officers. Sister Toyn conducted the program. We honored two past presidents of the Clovis Branch Relief Society when in its beginning: Hettie Keyworth and Jean Reynolds. It was entitled "This Is Your Life." Maureen Holmes gave the highlights of Sister Keyworth's life, written by Lucille Bradburn, and presented her with a scrapbook and carnation corsage. Sister Keyworth related the organization of the first Relief Society in Clovis. She said it started with four or five — 'just enough for officers — no members.' Now she is the only one left of the original group, and she expressed her thankfulness for the chapel and for the Relief Society. "Dixye Johnson, daughter of Jean Reynolds, reviewed a synopsis of her mother's life and also presented her with a scrapbook and carnation corsage. Sister Reynolds expressed her appreciation of the gospel and of Relief Society. "The program came to an end by singing 'Happy Birthday' to the Relief Society, and a beautiful cake, baked and decorated by Sister Toyn, was served." 768 (iy) ¢ \ San x ve LESSON DEPARTMENT —£ V7 — Desicn Your Teacrinc Ams: Use them as an artist uses highlights, as a poet chooses distinctive words, as a traveler chooses his special sights to see. Carefully prepare your Relief Society lesson and then retouch it with just the right teaching aids. Design your lesson as a writer designs his story, as an artist designs his points of interest, as a composer creates his melodies. Design your lesson as a skilled designer fashions a gown of beauty. The teaching aid may be compared to the one gem that makes the dress distinctive or to the strong reinforcement that makes the article last for a long time. Teaching aids, discriminately chosen, may determine just how the finished lesson will wear or be remembered by the sisters who are fortunate enough to participate. Yes, if you are a wise class leader, you will recognize the essential purposes of each phase of your lesson plan. You will study the factors in each learning situation. You will know the capacities, skills, 770 Design Your Teaching Atds Jor the 1963-64 Lessons Anna B. Hart Member, General Board of Relief Society Teacher, Brigham Young University and interests of your sisters, the great range of differences in age and experience. You may know how their desires and talents may be directed. Your main interest is in the sisters in your class. Now what can you do to your carefully prepared lesson to add zest, interest, and color to the learning situations? You will attend Leadership Meeting regularly and will select, with the help of your stake class leader and the other resourceful ward class leaders, the best methods, devices, and Teaching Aids to learning, which, in your best judgment, will give superior results. You may use the visual aids at the beginning of the class to attract attention, or serve aS a motivator for a difficult concept. Your teaching aid should communicate vitally to each sister. You may find that only one of the many pictures and ideas which you brought to the Leadership Meeting will add the vitality to the needed learning situation. Simplicity may be the answer. The teaching aid you choose may be just the one that will enable your sisters to learn faster the spiritual message, learn more in less time, or gain double the accurate information because you re-emphasized it. You may decide to beautify a picture by placing it in an attractive and appropriate frame. You may find just the story spots in the lesson to help solve the problem of going into more detail. It may be that the remark you made when you showed the picture helped the sisters to understand better that delicate concept or hidden meaning. You, as a class leader, are well aware that there is no substitute for your own warmth, insight, and enthusiasm. You are responsible for creating a favorable learning environment. Yours is the opportunity to plan and organize the lesson, and then to select and adapt teaching aids. Your personality may help make you the capable class leader that you are, but even you might need to highlight your teaching plans, to plan your teaching aids and design them. Even you may need to extend yourself and your planned ideas. Teaching aids may do this for you. Remember again that they are just aids. They are not intended to displace good instructional techniques. 'They are most effective when employed to supplement the personality and teaching skill of you, the class leader, and to assist in helping your sisters better to assimilate and apply your messages. I+ will not be necessary in this brief discussion to list again visual and audio aids and other numerous LESSON DEPARTMENT teaching aids. Just read some of the articles to which you are referred. You are constantly surrounded by audio and visual aids. Advertisements surround us. Our homes are colored with visual aids. We are involved with various forms of mass communication. Nature gives us a Matterhorn; man's world the architect's spires of a temple. But take any one of the many aids and see if you can fit it into your lesson in a more distinctive and finished way than you have ever before done. Feel yourself in the place of your class members. Just think of the way you like to have teaching aids used. Have some been too small for you to see? Did they detract from the lesson because you saw all or several of them during the entire class? Did the class leader speak to the visual aid or to you? Did you like the picture that was hidden under the table and brought into view just after the lovely poem was read? Were you aware of the map which had been turned to the wall or placed carefully behind the piano, until the moment in the theology lesson when you wanted to see that place geographically located, after being so effectively described? Were you surprised when the class leader drew the diagram on the blackboard with such apparent ease? Were you aware that she had practiced drawing it eight times before the class met? You may not have seen that she had some tiny dots helping her to space her writing or drawing. You will find that your resources in the form of teaching aids will help you build information, improve your speaking skill, develop apprecia- 771 OCTOBER 1963 tion, reinforce and amplify your text discussions, extend interests, and improve the sisterhood in your classes. You are no doubt entirely aware that learning is truly most effective when great messages, insights, concepts, are enriched with concrete things that touch and sharpen the senses — that are heard, seen, felt, smelled, labeled, or discussed. You must know that this enrichment will be remembered with pleasure long after the Relief Society lesson is over. You must also become aware of the fact that the carefully selected teaching aids are not used in isolation, but are carefully inserted and interwoven with the ideas and concepts so that one is hardly aware of them. Yet the glow of satisfaction that they give during the lesson and long afterward is a pleasant memory. You must be careful that your selected teaching aids do not compete with each other or stand out as loud, clashing color. If you choose too many aids, your class may lose the objective or purpose of the lesson, and have the feeling of seeing a gaudy display, thereby forgetting the message. Your lesson preparation is especially important so that the entire experience will be a carefully designed presentation, allowing for class participation, weighing the proper methods to use for that social science lesson, using the best questions to bring out the objective or the proper way of showing that literature picture to make a lasting impression on the entire lesson, not on the visual aid. How effective will be carefully chosen visual aids in the refreshing work meeting discussions or in theology? A simple Fre but effective chalkboard drawing may communicate thoughts dynamically in the visiting teacher message presentation at the meeting. The chalkboard and other teaching aids will be very effective in exploring the organization and structure of Church government in the social science lessons this coming year. You, as a class leader, will achieve your purposes if you carefully design your visual aid for a particular lesson. Class leader, refresh yourself with a brief checklist before designing a Relief Society lesson for presentation. Does your lesson need an extension, a highlight, a map or diagram? Do you budget your time to show the visual aid most effectively? You may wish to be resourceful and make your own teaching aid. Are you using a fresh, new approach? Is your aid suited to your subject matter? Are you planning to use your aid at the climax in the lesson? Do you speak to the teaching aid instead of to the sisters? Have you removed all unrelated aids, even though you especially liked that chart? Does that poster tell your conclusion at a glance? Did you make the effort to obtain that simple, but much needed, easel? It may be the only aid you need to display that picture for the literature lesson. Did you anticipate that hook or hanger or piece of string so that you may hang a painting or chart with just one movement? Do you make a habit of filing teaching aids? Did you take the time to assist the sister who is displaying a teaching aid? Are you allowing a few minutes to introduce effec- tively that new literature portrait? Are you using that bulletin board which is already in the room? Did you make a portable one, if none was available? Did you practice using even the simplest aid for the lesson presentation? Will your lesson be enriched by the teaching aid, your sisters benefited by the instruction, and your application made more sure and vital in the lives of your sisters? Are you able to make an appraisal of your plans? Do you know how to interpret, criticize, judge, and evaluate? Do you plan carefully when a teaching aid should be used, what to use, with whom and for whom, for what and with what purpose? The conclusion of a lesson may be the time when an effective teaching LESSON DEPARTMENT aid should be displayed for a particular lesson, so that the objective will be long remembered and the application made meaningful, so that action may result in the life of the sisters, making that lesson memorable. Yes, class leader, carefully design your lesson for participation, for the extended sparkle in visual aids, to provide an overall viewpoint to liven the application. Then you will have the feeling of composure, as does the actor who has learned his part or the director who can watch his production unfold in tnumph. Class leaders, design with distinction your teaching aids. How blessed you are to be a Relief Society class leader during the year 1963-64! BIBLIOGRAPHY Articles, such as the following, have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine and are applicable, in a general way, for use this year. "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Teaching Aids in Relief Society," January 1953, page 27, by Leone G. Layton. "Suggestions on Teaching Aids for the 1953-54 Lessons," June 1953, page 418, by Leone G. Layton. § "Teaching Aids for the 1954-55 Lessons," June 1954, page 400, by Edith S. Lott. "Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons," June 1955, page 403, by Mildred B. Eyring. "Audio Visual Aids for 1956-57," July 1956, page 475, by Mildred B. Eyring. I "Teaching Aids for the 1957-58 Lessons," June 1957, page 398, by Mary R. Oung. "Teaching Aids-for the 1958-59 Lessons," June 1958, page 399, by Mary R. Young. "Using the Blackboard in Teaching Lessons in the Relief Society," April 1960, page 228, by William E. Berrett. "Audio-Visual Teaching Materials for the 1962-1963 Lessons," June 1962, page 456, by Alice L. Wilkinson. Ready for Carnival Maude Rubin When corn shakes castanets in each dry husk, Each shimmering aspen craves a gypsy shawl, So chipmunks shuttle on the loom of dusk To weave the orange-striped fabric of the fall. 773 THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 52 — The Scriptures Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 66; 67; 68:1-6; 69) For First Meeting, January 1964 Objective: To appreciate more fully the manner in which scripture is made, the preparation necessary to know scripture, and the development of the revelations into a volume of scripture. REVIEW In the last lesson, in addition to other items, emphasis was put upon the kingdom of God as the Church of Jesus Christ restored to the earth in fulfillment of prophecy. This Church, or the kingdom of God, will join with the kingdom of heaven to govern the nations during the millennium. The kingdom of God, as such, will eventually fill the entire earth. The first part of this lesson gives us information about those who labor in that kingdom. SECTION 66 — WILLIAM E. M'LELLIN On October 25, 1831, an important conference of the Church convened at Orange, Ohio. The conference was highlighted by remarks of those present to consecrate all they possessed to the Lord. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that he did not have material things to consecrate but he was willing to consecrate himself and his family. (DHC 1:219-220, footnote.) It was on this day that William E. M'Lellin, a recent convert in attendance at the conference, requested 774 that the Prophet obtain the Lord's will concerning him. He was told that he was blessed in turning away from his iniquities and accepting the everlasting covenant. (D & C 66: 1-2.) In the first verse of this revelation, we are informed that Jesus Christ is the "Savior of the world, even of as many as believe on my name." (See also Section 42:1.) Also of interest to us is the definition of the everlasting covenant in verse 2. This term means "the fulness of my gospel," the purpose of which is to provide men with an opportunity to "be made partakers of the glories which are to be revealed in the last days," as prophesied. (See Lesson 1.) Notwithstanding Brother M'Lellin had recently been baptized for the remission of his sins, he is told in verse 3 that he is "clean, but not all," and that repentance should be sought for those things which were not pleasing to the Lord. (D & C 66:3.) This evaluation of M'Lellin suggests a message that could probably be addressed to all the members of the Church. The scriptures aver that everyone is in need of repentance, although we know that some sin more grievously than others. (I John 1:8; Eccl. 7:20.) The goal of the gospel is perfection. (3 Nephi 12:48.) As President Charles W. Penrose said: "We are none of us entirely perfect; but we expect to 'go on unto perfection' by keeping the will and word of the Lord" (Conference Report, October 1923, page 18). Brother M'Lellin was appointed to preach the gospel in the "eastern lands" [States] in company with Elder Samuel H. Smith, the brother of the Prophet. (D & C 66:4-8.) Promises of healing the sick and of knowing the will of the Lord were mentioned as some of M'Lellin's blessings. (Ibid., verse 9.) 'Then the Lord reminded him that his weakness was the temptation to commit adultery. 'To become clean before the Lord, it was necessary that he be free of this temptation. (Ibid., verse 10.) One may be reminded of the truth that the Lord does not look upon sin with the least degree of allowance, but he is willing to forgive those who sincerely overcome their weaknesses. (Ibid., 1:31-33; Lesson 49, Relief Society Magazine, July 1963.) Although we are imperfect, and the Lord, therefore, calls imperfect people into his kingdom, he expects that persons called to advance his work will strive to overcome their shortcomings. Effective service that advances the salvation of the individual and the persons with whom he works or serves, requires that the worker have the Spirit of the Lord. (D & C 11:11-14.) Here are the LESSON DEPARTMENT words of President Lorenzo Snow on this matter: I feel that it belongs to me, and my brethren here, to be long suffering, kind, always ready to forgive, and to cherish the highest love for every man and woman who is trying to do the will of God. Do not be discouraged, brethren. If you cannot become perfect at once; if you see that you have weaknesses which have brought you into some trouble, do not be discouraged; repent of that which you have done wrong, by which you have lost more or less of the Spirit of God, tell the Lord what you have done, and resolve in your hearts that you will do it no more. Then the Spirit of the Lord will be upon you (Conference Report, October 1898, page 56). The kingdom of God has imperfect workers in it who, if they are genuinely seeking to build Zion, will strive for the highest possible blessing that the Father has for his faithful children. Expressed in the revelation to William E. M'Lellin, it is achieved in instructions given in Section 66, verses 11 to 13. BOOK OF COMMANDMENTS When the Prophet returned from the conference at Orange, Ohio, a special conference convened at Hiram for two days. During this period several revelations were received, including Section 1, known as the "Lord's Preface" to the Doctrine and Covenants. The special business transacted at this November 1831 conference concerned the publication of the revelations which the Prophet had begun to compile in the summer of 1830. In this work he was assisted by John Whitmer, who later became the Church Historian. (DHC I[:104; D & C 47:1.) Authorization was given for the 775 OCTOBER 1963 printing of 10,000 copies of the compilation of revelations to be known as the Book of Commandments. On May 1, 1832, a general council of the Church decided that 3,000 copies should be_ printed. Some of the brethren mentioned in Section 70, verse 1, were appointed to prepare them for printing at the press of W. W. Phelps & Co. In Independence, Missouri. (DHC I:270.) In Section 69, received at the November 1831 conference, Oliver Cowdery and John Whitmer were appointed to take the revelations and certain money to the printing plant. (DHC I[:229; D & C 69:1-2.) Further information about the Book of Commandments will be found in Lesson 2, Relief Society Magazine, August 1957, pages 547-548. 'This material tells of the destruction of the printing press, and of subsequent success in publishing the Doctrine and Covenants. SECTION 67 In the Prophet's history he recorded that due to some conversation about revelations and language, he inquired of the Lord and received Section 67. (DHC [:224.) The revelation itself refers to imperfections noted by the elders at the conference, and the desire on the part of some to express the revelations better than in the Prophet's language. (D & C 67:5.) these murmurings of discontent, a challenge was issued to the brethren assembled. (Read D & C 67:6-9.) In the group was William E. M'Lellin, the subject of Section 66, a schoolteacher who apparently was the chief critic of the revelations. 776 Because of In any case, this man felt that he was equal to the challenge and forthwith attempted to write a revelation as challenged. The Prophet's statement of this attempt gives us an insight into the character of M'Lellin as well as Joseph Smith's testimony of receiving communications from God. Here are his words: After the foregoing was received, Willam E. M'Lellin, as the wisest man, in his own estimation, having more learning than sense, endeavored to write a commandment like unto one of the least of the Lord's, but failed; it was an awful responsibility to write in the name of the Lord. The Elders and all present that witnessed this vain attempt of a man to imitate the language of Jesus Christ, renewed their faith in the fulness of the Gospel, and in the truth of the commandments and revelations which the Lord had given to the Church through my instrumentality; and the Elders signified a willingness to bear testimony of their truth to all the world (DHC 1:226). In all the world there was not an individual who had the right by appointment of God to receive divine communications except Joseph Smith. The Prophet knew that "it was an awful responsibility to write in the name of the Lord." It is true that an educated person might be able to frame words in such a manner that the language would appear to be "suitable" as a revelation, but language itself does not supply the spirit. In commenting upon this thought, Elder Orson F. Whitney said: It is not so easy to put the spirit of life into things. Man can make the body, but God alone can create the spirit. You have heard, have you not, of the scientist who took a grain of wheat and endeavored to make one just like it? First he separated the grain of wheat into its com- ponent parts, and found that it contained so much lime, so much silica, so much of this element and that; and then he took other parts corresponding thereto, brought them together by means of his chemical skill, and produced a grain of wheat so exactly similar to the other that the natural eye could not detect any difference between them. But there was a difference, a vast difference, and it was demonstrated when he planted the two grains. The one that God made sprang up, and the one that man made stayed down. Why? Because the man-made grain of wheat had no spirit — only a body, and the body without the spirit is dead. Man cannot breathe into the body of things the breath of life; that is a function and prerogative of Deity. It is not so easy to frame revelations from God. A vain boaster making ridicule of the proverbs of Solomon, said: "Anybody can make proverbs." His friend answered, "Try a few," and the conversation ended (Conference Report, April 1917, page 42). WITNESSES TO THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Following Joseph Smith's report of M'Lellin's failure and his consequent confession to the conference, the Prophet recorded: "Accordingly I received the following:" The testimony of the witnesses to the Book of Commandments, the title of the first compilation of revelations, followed. 'This testimony is printed in the "Explanatory Introduction" of each copy of the Doctrine and Covenants. By certifying to this statement, the elders testified that by the power of the Holy Ghost the Lord had borne witness to their souls of the truth that there was no unrighteousness in these revelations because they came from God. Since the revelations come from God, they are of utmost value to the inhabitants of the world. Section 1 of the Doctrine and Covenants states the purposes the Lord had in giving the LESSON DEPARTMENT revelations and also the benefits that may come to the world by obedience to the revelations. (Lesson 3, Relief Society Magazine, September 1957.) The "Explanatory Introduction" of the Doctrine and Covenants also contains the testimony of the first Quorum of Twelve Apostles of this dispensation. Their witness was given in 1835 when the second compilation of revelations was printed as the Doctrine and Covenants. A BLESSING PROMISED Without disclosing the exact nature of the blessing which was offered to these elders in the November conference (D & C 67:3), the revelation continues to show how these elders might receive a knowledge of God by sight. 'They were told that only by stripping themselves of jealousies and fears and becoming sufficiently humble would this blessing be possible. (Ibid., verse 10.) Reference is also made to the "natural man" as contrasted with the "spiritual." (Ibid., verse 12.) King Benjamin of The Book of Mormon discoursed on the atonement of Christ for the salvation of man, which provides us with an lmportant truth concerning these two conditions. (Read Mosiah 3:18-19.) The natural man is that one who has not been influenced by the Spirit of God to change his life to become spiritual, or a saint. 'The characterization of a saint as one who is fully obedient to the word and will of the Lord, agrees with the many pronouncements that endurance to the end in righteousness will bring the blessing of eternal life. (Lesson 38, Relief Society Magazine, De- 777 OCTOBER 1963 cember 1961.) 'To come into God's presence requires that the candidate strip himself of pride, hate, cruelty, dishonesty, lying, sex offenses of thought and deed, and of other base sins of commission. Carnality in its many forms must be repented of. The persons addressed in this revelation (Section 67) were told that they were unprepared to abide the Lord's presence or that of angels; however, if they continued im patience to perfect their lives, they would, in the due time of the Lord, receive the promise of his presence. The instructions given concerning the natural man and the necessary preparation to behold God reminds one of Moses' experience in seeing him with his spiritual eyes. (Moses 1:11; D & C 67:11.) Men may earn the perfection that warrants the Lord's presence. (D & C 88:66-68.) Perfection in many areas of living is possible in mortality as stated by Elder Mark E. Petersen: I believe that in many ways, here and now in mortality, we can begin to perfect ourselves. A certain degree of perfection is attainable in this life. I believe that we can. Be one hundred percent perfect, for instance, in abstaining from the use of tea and coffee... Paying a full and honest tithing... And giving to the bishop as fast offering the value of those two meals from which we abstain. In keeping the commandment which says that we shall not profane the name of God. We can be perfect in keeping the commandment which says, "Thou shalt not commit adultery." (Ex. 20:14.) We can be perfect in keeping the commandment which says, "Thou shalt not steal.'"' (Ibid., 15.) We can become perfect in keeping various others of the commandments that the Lord has given us (Conference Report, April 1950, page 153). 778 ORSON HYDE'S MISSION Verse 1 of Section 68 is a call to Orson Hyde to preach the gospel in many lands, reasoning with the people and explaining the scriptures. This call was prophetic as subsequent events proved. Ten years later he was appointed to dedicate the land of Palestine for the return of the Jewish people to their homeland. As he made his journey to Palestine, he taught in many lands and performed his assignment on October 24, 1841. (DHC IV. Pp. 456-459.) 'The world today is witnessing the fulfillment of prophecies concerning the return of the tribe of Judah to that land. HOW SCRIPTURE IS MADE The most important message of the forepart of Section 68 is the counsel given to these elders concerning scripture. And, behold, and lo, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this priesthood, whose mission is appointed unto them to go forth — And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost. And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the werd of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation. Behold, this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servants (D & C 68:2-5). It is to be noted that this counsel was directed to elders who would be engaged in a missionary work. Missionaries teaching the first principles to investigators are entitled to be moved upon by the Holy Ghost, for the diligent missionary teaches by the Spirit, and the investigator is influenced by that Spirit. (Ibid., 50:22.) There are among the General Authorities brethren who are sustained as "prophets, seers, and revelators," which gives them a special endowment in teaching the gospel to the people. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said that: "They have the right, the power, and authority to declare the mind and will of God to His people, subject to the overall power, and authority of the President of the Church." Other members of the General Authorities are not so endowed, nor is any other officer or member of the Church. The President of the Church, as we have already studied, alone has the right to receive revelation for the Church and to give authoritative LESSON DEPARTMENT interpretations of scriptures that bind the Church. (Ibid., 107:8, 65-66, 91-92.) Scripture, then, is made by the Holy Ghost inspiring the prophets, seers, and revelators. Just as scripture was made in the past by the apostles and prophets of the Old and the New Testaments, so also is scripture being made today, when the prophets are moved upon by the Holy Ghost. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. How does the statement regarding William E. M'Lellin, "ye are clean, but not all," apply to the members of the Church, and what can be done about it? 2. Distinguish between the "natural man" and the "spiritual man," and tell how one may become spiritual. 3. Discuss: Scripture has and will continue to be made by the power of the Holy Ghost. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 52.— "Ask, and Ye Shall Receive; Knock, and It Shall Be Opened Unto You" (D & C 66:9). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, January 1964 Objective: To emphasize the fact that to obtain blessings which are good for us, we must ask the Lord for them and seek them diligently. For our own happiness, for our own growth and development, there is probably no counsel given to us by the Lord that is more important than that given in this quotation from the Doctrine and Covenants. In order to receive the Lord's blessings we must seek them, for he has told us, "Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (D & C 66:9). In fact, so important is this counsel, that the Lord has emphasized it repeatedly in all the dispensations of his gospel. Anciently, through his prophets, the Lord pleaded with his people not to forsake him but to seek him constantly. Moses challenged his 779 OCTOBER 1963 people not to leave the Lord, saying, "Is not he thy father... Hath he not made thee, and established thee?... Ask thy father, and he will shew thee" (Deut. 32:6-7). Solomon expressed the same thought when he said, "In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall dimet thy paths' (Prov. 3:6). Through the prophet Jeremiah the Lord said 'Call unto me, and I will answer thee" (Jer. 33:3). In his Sermon on the Mount the Lord Jesus Christ once more extended to his people the same glorious invitation, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matt. 7:7). And then the Lord added "For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?... If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?" (Matt. 7:8-11). When the Savior organized his church among the Nephites on the American Continent, he emphasized this same counsel and invitation. (See 3 Nephi 14:7-8.) Then, to dramatize the importance of this counsel further, just prior to his ascension to heaven, the Savior again said, "whatsoever things ye shall ask the Father in my name shall be given unto you. Therefore, ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (3 Nephi 27:28- 29). Why is this counsel or invitation 780 so important that the Lord has emphasized and reemphasized it so repeatedly? One of the best answers to this question was given by Isaiah when he described some of the blessings the Lord has in store for those who ask and wait upon the Lord. He said, "Men have not heard — 38 neither hath the eye seen... What he [the Lord] hath prepared for him that waiteth for him" (Is. 64:4). The apostle Paul restated this same promise in a letter to the Corinthians. He said, "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him" (1 Cor. 2:9). Wonderful blessings, blessings beyond our power to comprehend, are prepared by the Lord for us if we will conscientiously seek them. But, to seek them we must ask; to enter into the Lord's house of promise, we must knock. The apostle James told the early Christians, " ye have not, because ye ask not" (James 4:2). However, these blessings do not come automatically. We must be deserving and we must ask in faith, "nothing wavering." (See James 1:6.) The Savior said, "all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive" (Matt. 21:22). One famous author has set down four requirements necessary when asking for blessings from the Lord. He said, "Test your desire. Is it good for you? Are you ready for it now? Is it fair to all others concerned? Do you honestly feel it is according to God's will?" (ALLEN, CuarteEs L.: How to Get What You Want, page 79). If we can truly answer "yes" to these four questions, we can ask the Lord for our desires. But, we must ask him with full, unwavering faith, believing. There is still another requirement if we are to receive the Lord's blessings. This requirement was emphasized in an experience shared by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery while they were working on the translation of The Book of Mormon. At one point in that work, Oliver, with the permission of the Prophet, attempted to translate but was unable to use the urim and thummim, and he and Joseph inquired of the Lord the reason. In answer, the Lord said, "Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me. But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must LESSON DEPARTMENT ask me if it be night, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is nght'" (D & C 9:7-8). As indicated in this experience, the Lord also expects us to work and to exercise our own intelligence and initiative in order to deserve his blessings. Surely the Lord has prepared for us bounteous blessings. He pleads with us to live so as to deserve these blessings and, deserving them, he counsels us "ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." But let us be wise in that which we request. Let us be sure that we have done what the Lord requires, asking in faith — fully believing — and the Lord will open the doors of his rich blessings and shower them upon us. WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 12 — Planning the Use of Resources Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, January 1964 Objective: To investigate methods of managing money, to determine their relative merits, and to adopt a method consistent with family goals. In today's world one is forced to be awake and on the job every minute as he assumes the responsibility of managing his own affairs, if he and his family are to make the most of their resources. Since women have a longer life span than men and are likely to have entire responsibility of their affairs some day, it is important that they learn to use money wisely. Each family should have a plan 781 OCTOBER 1963 for the use of its resources, some training in method, and a clear understanding of family goals. 'Training in how to make decisions about the use of money can begin for a child as soon as he is aware of the difference in value of coins. He is then old enough to join the family planning session. By virtue of the fact that he is a member of the family and shares in the work of the home, he has the right to share in the money resources. His share will be small to begin with, but he will have the chance to choose for himself how he will spend it. For extra work, a child may receive extra compensation and learn what it means to work for pay. Gradually he can learn to save for items of special importance to him. The only way he can learn to use money is to have some to use, and the only way to learn to save is to have a plan for the saving. Parents set the savings goals of a mission or college education, but to a small child these goals are too remote to have much meaning. His participation in the savings plan for them will give meaning and motivate their realization. However, he learns through participation in family planning the great satisfactions to be gained through planned giving. He will know the joy of adding his bit to the building of a chapel, and share in the feeling of family securitv in setting aside the Lord's tenth. He will appreciate the feeling of security the payment of tithes can bring. The contributions planned for community relief will help him become aware of humanity's needs. Grandparents, too, can be helpful in training children in the use of 782 money. They can provide the children with extra work opportunities and suggest ways in which the money earned might be used. If grandmother has more time than mother, she might be the one to teach the child to buy fabric for a pinafore and help her make it. Grandfather might provide a small garden plot for a boy in which to grow vegetables, help him buy the seed, plant — and cultivate the garden, and advise — him on how to find a buyer for the vegetables when ready for the table. Each family plan will be different, even though basic needs may be the same — housing, food, clothing, etc. How, then, shall we go about making a plan that will fit our family needs and enable us to make wise use of our resources? First, let us discover what we are actually doing with our money by keeping a record of our expenditures fora month. Envelopes might be labeled food, rent, clothing, health (doctor, dentist, medicines), tithes and offerings, personal care, and other items. Receipts might be put in the envelopes as purchases are made or bills are paid. 'There would be ready access to the figures which could be tallied up at the end of the month. After listing these items for two or three months, the figures could be used as a base for charting money goals and making plans for the rest of the year. The checkbook method is another easy way to keep record of expenditures, and this method has the advantage of providing evidence for income tax purposes. It requires having enough money in the bank to do business.* As you make up your record of expenditures, you will be made aware of your actual spending practices, and where some seem unwise you will wish to plan changes. For example, if a teenage daughter wanted a new dress and her spending record showed a disproportionate amount spent on personal care, she would readily see where she could plan the use of her money to bring her greater satisfaction. LESSON DEPARTMENT Real savings are possible when one sees the mistakes that have been made and ideas develop for the better use of resources. Planning together as a family is a character-building activity which brings spiritual strength to the family and helps keep them from thinking only of the materialistic values of this world. *Refer to "The Family Dollar," by Robert Daines in the April, 1963, Improvement Era for further information about this method. LITERATURE @ America's Literature The Last Hundred Years Lesson 44 — William Dean Howells, Democratic Realist (1837-1920) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 674-695 ) For Third Meeting, January 1964 Objective: To define and exemplify American Realism by studying the life and writings of its prime spokesman. Rewemser that wherever life is simplest and purest and kindest, that is the highest civilization." This statement fairly represents William Dean Howells, one of the kindest and gentlest and most affectionate of America's influential writers. For more than sixty years the dominant passion of his life was to defend and enlarge such a_ philosophy. Nonetheless, he became outmoded and forgotten many years before his death in 1920. Our own generation cannot forget him since we have never really known his name. Only a few teachers and literary historians remember him, and then, usually, as a literary scapegoat, scorned alike by the once-popular Romantics of the earlier nineteenth century and the "liberated" modern writers for whom he paved the way. Yet he eminently deserves to be respected, read, and enjoyed. Affectionately known in his decades of literary and critical predominance as the Dean of American Letters, Mr. Howells spoke out courageously 783 OCTOBER 1963 and effectively as the literary conscience of the late nineteenth century. 'That he was read and heard and respected more widely than any other writer of his day, save possibly Twain, is sufficient justification for acknowledging his claim upon our time. Furthermore, those who read him will find in his pages an immediate reassurance and _ pleasure, provided, of course, they are Howells' type of people, namely the middle-class, average Americans whom he knew best and loved most. Finally, in his message to the young writers of his own day he emphasized the timeless values of integrity and truth when he said, Do not trouble yourselves about standards or contempts or passions; but try to be faithful and natural; and remember that there is no greatness, no beauty, which does not come from truth to your own knowledge of things (Kirk & Kirk, Representative Selections, American Book Company, 1950, Cxxxili). It is such values which comprise the essence of Realism, and of Howells himself. THE FORMATIVE YEARS Howells was born in 1837 in Martin's Ferry, Ohio, and spent his youth in several Ohio villages where his father ran the local newspaper. Belief in the goodness of all mankind and in the vital need for idealistic living and humanitarian reform were current in the air. His father was blessed with a great love of literature, and during the long, quiet evenings shared his delight in Thomson and Pope by reading their works aloud to his family. Young William grew up knowing with his family that "in every thought and in 784 every deed they were choosing their portion with the devils or the angels, and that God himself could not save them against themselves" (Ibid., XXlll). When he was thirteen the Howells family spent a year living in a log cabin wilderness near Xenia, Ohio, where Father Howells and his two brothers had hoped to establish their own communal Utopia. When the experiment failed, the family moved to Ashtabula in the Western Reserve and went heavily in debt to buy the town newspaper. An experienced typesetter since he was nine, William worked in the print shop full time, thus being deprived of any formal education. Possibly because the eight Howells children were, with some justification, regarded as "different"; or because William was extremely sensitive over a mentally retarded brother; or because he never grew taller than five feet four inches — for one reason or for all of them, William withdrew into the world of books, which he found so satisfying and exciting that all he wanted was more books. Though none of the normal pastimes and delights of a childhood in a typically casual and equally small town were unknown to him, as proved by his warm, mature remembrances of his youth as recorded in A Boy's Town, he was so driven by a desire to attain more literary knowledge that in his late teens he experienced a sort of mental breakdown when he could neither sleep nor work. And no wonder. During the day he absorbed from the old journeyman printers their great love of Shakespeare so that nights on end he sat in his little cubicle beneath the stairs reading until one or two o'clock. With an old bookbinder he would sit up reading his beloved poetry of Heinrich Heine in the original until the book was worn out. With no other help than a dictionary, young Howells learned Greek and Latin and Spanish, all that he might read Dante's and Cervantes' original words. Thus he drove himself toward a goal which he could not even begin to define, and when his great chance came, he was ready. But when, as a famous author and editor, he was offered professorships of literature at Johns Hopkins and Harvard, he refused them, feeling that he was not qualified since "self-taught is halftaught." Yet he did not refuse honorary degrees from Yale, Oxford, and Columbia, nor need he have done so, for no one more fully deserved them. As a competent young journalist, he did not hesitate to accept when someone asked him to write a campaign biography for Abraham Lincoln, whom he had never seen. But instead of interviewing him personally, he sent a law student to Illinois to gather material, and thus "I missed the greatest chance of my life." As a reward for Howell's efforts, Lincoln appointed him American Consul in Vienna where he spent the Civil War years getting acquainted with his lovely, understanding wife and, with typical industry, writing poetry and sketches which no one would publish. When after four years of intense diligence he saw only four short poems in print, he told a friend, in 1864, that "to write of literature makes my soul LESSON DEPARTMENT sick within me." For him this was a long period of "waiting and defeat, which I thought would never end." LITERARY SUCCESS In 1860, dedicated Howells, then barely twenty-three, brashly used his earnings from the Lincoln biography to make his long-awaited literary pilgrimage to Boston and Concord. Without hesitation, this unknown upstart from the uncultivated prairies of the Western Reserve called on the retiring Hawthorne, was cordially entertained, and was sent to the august Emerson _ bearing Hawthorne's abrupt but just summary, "I find this young man worthy." James Russell Lowell, then editor of the newly established Atlantic Monthly, was so impressed that he arranged a dinner in honor of Howells, inviting Oliver Wendell Holmes and James T'.. Fields, who succeeded Lowell as editor, and who offered Howells the position of assistant editor in 1866. He emphasized that the appointment was an economy measure designed to take advantage of Howells' experience and skill at correcting copy. So effectively did he serve that, five years later in 1871, he was appointed editor, a position which he filled most brilliantly for the next ten years, when he resigned to devote himself completely to his writing. How uniquely American, and what a vindication of democratic principles to have an uneducated printers son from the untamed West chosen to shape the destinies of the new Nation's most sophisticated literary publication! 785 OCTOBER 1963 "DEAN" HOWELLS Though it might seem foolish to relinquish so influential a position as editor of the Atlantic, actually Howells was amply justified. While he had done his job most commendably, he had become frightfully tired of the tasks of editing. Accomplishments of the next decade proved the wisdom of his decision. 'Though during his sixty-odd years of productivity more than one hundred books were to flow from his pen, he had yet to discover his true powers as a novelist; likewise, the formulation of his critical principles had not even begun. As a literary term, the word Realism was unknown. Within the next decade all his best novels were published: A Modern Instance (1882), The Rise of Silas Lapham (1885), Indian Summer (1886) and A Hazard of New Fortunes (1890). The next year his Criticism and Fiction established Howells as the advocate of a new set of critical values for fiction, and the most prominent critic in the country. It was to William Dean Howells that all the struggling young writers of the new Realism turned for critical direction, moral support and approval, and a congenial sponsor who could get their works published. But in one sense Howells' greatest accomplishment (and _ living proof of his impartial versatility) was his ability to maintain intimate and lifelong friendships with such literary opposites as Henry James and Mark Twain. While both were Realists, how completely they differed, in subject, style, and personality. Yet both were eager to acknowledge Howells as a major influence in their lives and work. 786 Another proof of his great influence was his cosmopolitan literary awareness. It was Howells who first introduced to his countrymen the writings of great Continental authors. He freely acknowledged Tolstoy as the greatest single literary influence of his life as mirrored in his later novels, which exhibit a sharpened social and economic consciousness and awareness of injustices in the strike-torn 18g0's. THE EMERGING REALIST The mature Howells became the leading advocate of Realism because, as he observed his own changing values and those of the world around him, he came to believe that the Romantic literary form and vision now intruded as an artificial pretense. Early in his career he had promised himself always to "inquire into the facts with unsparing fearlessness'"; this, he felt, could be achieved if the sentimentality and over-concern for the ancient, the unusual, and the picturesque were replaced by "the romance of the real and the thrill and the charm of the common." When first he attempted writing, Howells was convinced that his new, rough homeland offered no fit subject for literary treatment, and he was embarrassed by such a lack. However, as he lived longer and observed life about him, he saw in his fellow Americans innocence, yes, but a strength, a moral courage, a goodness of life and action which had their origins in the common, everyday events which once he had felt were the very defects of American life and art! THE RISE OF SILAS LAPHAM Though Howells himself felt Indian Summer to be his best novel (and it might well be subtler and more firmly constructed), over the decades, The Rise of Silas Lapham has been the general favorite. (See text.) It fairly represents Howells and the Realistic school of writing. Having made a fortune in his rural paint mine, Silas brings his family to Boston where he and his wife Persis hope to become part of "high society." Their daughter Penelope wins the love of Tom Corey, son of one of the best families, but when the rugged Silas is invited to a formal dinner and becomes so ill at ease amid the strange, unfriendly atmosphere that he drinks and boasts himself into discredit in the eyes of all present, the match seems doomed. Silas builds a house in the best neighborhood, but it costs more than he _ had anticipated. When it burns, without being insured, and when he loses heavily in. A speculative venture, rather than compromise his honest principles, the "fall" seems complete and the family returns to Vermont. In fact, his sterling qualities have triumphed over apparent disaster. Penelope finally wins Tom Corey, and the novel ends happily. The novel is so plain that it becomes real, not by attempting to exhibit a "slice of life," but by revealing the character of a typical American businessman. In contrast to the novels of Jack London, Frank Norris, and Theodore Dreiser, which depict the businessman as a greedy, all-powerful tycoon, Howells depicts his central character as successful, and proud of it, but more nearly an LESSON DEPARTMENT actual person, neither excessively glamorized nor belittled. The first chapter consists of an interview in Silas' office between the sole proprietor of the paint firm and Bartley Hubbard, newspaperman. A short excerpt will give the rhythm and tone and characterization which are representative. Silas is explaining why he fought in the Civil War, which had ended his paint business.... | was about heart-broken... But m'wife she looked at it another way. "I guess it's a providence," says she. 'Silas, I guess you've got a country that's worth fighting for. Any rate, you better go out and give it a chance." Well, sir, I went. I knew she meant business. It might kill her to have me go, but it would kill her sure if I stayed. She was one of that kind. I went. Her last words was, "I'll look after the paint, Si...." So I went. I got through; and you can call me Colonel, if you want to. Feel there!" Lapham took Bartley's thumb and _ forefinger and put them on a bunch in his leg, just above the knee. 'Anything hard?" "Ball?" Lapham nodded. "Gettysburg. That's my thermometer. If it wa'n't for that, I wouldn't know enough to come in when it rains..." (from Howe is, WILLIAM Dean, The Rise of Silas Lapham, Houghton Mifflin Company, 1912. Reprinted by permission of the publisher. See text, pp. 681-682). The same straightforward lack of pretense is to be found in the conversation between Silas and his wife after the "Hill Ladies' have called at the Lapham residence, excusing their lateness because their coachman had never before been in their neighborhood. 'This hint left a barb which only grew larger in the minds of both mother and daughter. When she explains the cut to Silas, he then discloses to her that secretly 787 OCTOBER 1963 he has bought a lot on the Back Bay. "Want me to build on it?" he asked in reply, with a quizzical smile. "I guess we can get along here for a while." This was at night. Mrs. Lapham said — "I suppose we ought to do the best we can for the children, in every way." "I supposed we always had," replied her husband. "Yes, we have, according to our light." "Have you got some new light?" "I don't know as it's light. But if the girls are going to keep on living in Boston and marry here, I presume we ought to try to get them into society, some way; or ought to do something." "Well, who's ever done more for their children than we have?'' demanded Lapham, with a pang at the thought that he could possibly have been outdone. "Don't they have everything they want? Don't they dress just as you say? Don't you go everywhere with 'em? Is there ever anything going on that's worth while that they don't see it or hear it? I don't know what you mean. Why don't you get them into society? There's money enough." "There's got to be something besides money, I guess," said Mrs. Lapham, with a hopeless sigh. "I presume we didn't go to work just the right way about their schooling. We ought to have got them into 'some school where they'd have got acquainted with city girls — girls who could help them along. Nearly everybody at Miss Smillie's was from somewhere else." "Well, its pretty late to think about that now," grumbled Lapham. "And we've always gone our own way, and not looked out for the future. We ought to have gone out more, and had people come to the house. Nobody comes." "Well, is that my fault? I guess nobody ever makes people welcomer." "We ought to have invited company more." "Why don't you do it now? In the morning If it's for 788 the girls, I don't care if you have the house full all the while." Mrs. Lapham was forced to a confession full of humiliation. "I don't know who to ask." "Well, you can't expect me to tell you." "No; we're both country people, and we ve kept our country ways, and we don't either of us, know what to do." (Text, page 687). Such parental exchanges are the very stuff of life, neither glamorized nor grim, but just solidly there. Likewise Howells himself is solidly there, for those who might bother to seek him out and permit him to speak of his real world in his own terms. And whether we approach him as a personality in his own right, as social or cultural historian, as literary critic or author, if we grant him the basic privilege of sympathetic reading, judged in terms of what he was attempting to achieve, Howells then achieves a new stature as a courageous pioneer who ventured successfully into new realms of America's literary art to leave abundant proof of his right principles, keen ear and eye, and large heart. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In Howells' youth where lay the true reality, in his Ohio village or in books? How does this first reality predict or relate to his later one? 2. As defined by Howells, are Romantic and Naturalistic writers false writers, or do - they merely depict another form of truth? 3. Do you feel that democratic art, as exemplified in Howells' theory and _ practice, can become so common and colorless that it is not art at all? Must art be glamorized or romanticized to be considered art? SOCIAL SCIENCE ° Divine Law and Church Government Church Government: Its Organization and Structure Lesson 10 — Priesthood Quorums and Their Function Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, January 1964 Objective: To acquaint Relief Society members with the importance of quorum organization and the obligation of quorum membership. Because the women of the Church can and do have great influence on their families, it is of the greatest importance that they understand the organization of the Priesthood quorums to which their husbands and sons belong. They must know the obligations which come with membership in a quotum, if they are to give adequate support and encouragement to the members of their families in meeting their responsibilities. The following quotation indicates the seriousness of these obligations. Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand. Even so. Amen (D&C 107:99-100). Every ordinance, every step essential to exaltation and eternal life, is included in the power and authority of the Priesthood. It contains the complete formula for the abundant life. These things being true, it should follow that every intelligent person should be interested in and influenced by the operation of the Priesthood. PRIESTHOOD QUORUMS, THEIR MEANING AND RELATIONSHIP "The priesthood quorums [Melchizedek] are part of the revealed organization whereby adult brethren are trained and enabled to do their part in helping the Church to discharge its divine mission" (Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 21). The quorum presents a most interesting social situation in regard to the loyalty of the quorum members. This loyalty can only be achieved by personal conviction as to the reality of God. 'There is no force that can command or demand this response. So far as human association is concerned, the quorum can. Be the most effective means of developing group solidarity that human beings can experience. It is built on usefulness to fellow men, based on revealed truth and motivated by love. 1. Called by Authority to Act in Church Government. The responsibility for the operation of the government of the Church is in the 789 OCTOBER 1963 hands of those holding the Priesthood. However, in receiving the Melchizedek Priesthood, other than the personal prerogatives, such as administering to the sick and the performing of Priesthood rights pertaining to his immediate family, each ordained bearer can function therein only as he is delegated to do so by those who preside over him. As a quorum member, the Priesthood bearer does not possess the authorization to function in the government of the Church though he has been ordained to the Priesthood. He does have the Priesthood calling that will qualify him if he is commuissioned by one holding the office of presidency, for herein is seen the exercise of the use of the keys which have been bestowed upon those called to preside. This appears to be somewhat contradictory and confusing, but, when properly understood, it is really quite clear. The following explanation may be helpful. Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is open to all people and attained only through baptism and confirmation by one holding the proper Priesthood calling. A priest holding the Aaronic Priesthood may perform baptisms if he is so directed by his bishop — the ecclesiastical line of authority. (Ecclesiastical means relating to the Church or its organization or government.) If a Melchizedek Priesthood holder ls appointed by the proper ecclesiastical authority, he has the power to baptize and confirm the person a member of the Church. Either the priest or the elder has the power to baptize, but neither can exercise 790 this power without the authorization of the proper ecclesiastical officer (bishop, stake president, Cte.). 2. Qualifications for Priesthood Ordination. With membership in the Church, male members who are worthy and sufficiently developed spiritually and _ intellectually may receive the Priesthood. Age limits have been established for the Aaronic Priesthood beginning at twelve years for a deacon and allowing a training experience of approxi mately two years for each office in this Priesthood. However, more important than age is the worthiness of the individual, his understanding of the gospel, and his knowledge of the duties and responsibilities of each Priesthood calling. Under these conditions, priests, if worthy, are normally eligible to be ordained elders at twenty years of age. However, a priest may be ordained at an earlier age if he is called on a mission or is to be married in the temple. (Aaronic Priesthood Handbook, 1963, pp. 31-32.) Variations of the suggested ages are noted in the ordination of adult converts. In such cases it is the worthiness, knowledge of the gospel, and understanding of the Priesthood responsibility that determine the recommendation for ordination. The suggested procedure for adult male converts is that they have an opportunity to function in each of the Aaronic Priesthood callings before receiving the Melchizedek Priesthood. 3. Quorum Definition. Usually the term quorum refers to a majority of the members of any organized group. To the Latter-dav Saints, however, this term has a special meaning in addition to this. To Church members the term quorum refers to all the members of a specially selected or chosen body — as an elders' quorum, the quorum of © the First Presidency. 'The quorum as an organized body of the Priesthood implies an ideal standard of conduct, a common purpose, unity of decision, and a vital interest in the welfare of each member. In reference to the quorums of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the First Council of the Seventy, the Lord said, "And every decision made by either of these quorums must be by the unanimous voice of the same; that is, every member in each quorum must be agreed to its decisions, in order to make their decisions of the same power or validity one with the other' (D & C 107:27). This instruction was given specifically to the quorums of the General Authorities of the Church. Nevertheless, the pattern for quorum activity and the essential qualities of quorum members should be the same in all quorums of the Priesthood. In actual practice, however, an action by a majority of members in attendance carries. Aaronic Priesthood Quorums. In the Aaronic Priesthood there are three quorums, deacons, teachers, and priests. 'There are, however, four offices in this Priesthood, deacon, teacher, priest, and a bishop who is a literal descendant of Aaron. (See Lesson 8.) However, the office of a bishop filled by a high priest appointed to the office of a bishop by the First Presidency cannot be rightfully referred to as an LESSON DEPARTMENT office in the Aaronic Priesthood. 1. Deacons Quorum. The normal number of deacons to form a quorum is twelve; however, a quorum may be formed with a majority of twelve, that is, with from seven to twelve deacons. They are presided over by a presidency selected from their members by the bishopric and sustained by the quorum members. The deacon's responsibilities are temporal in nature. They pertain to the care of the meeting house and the comfort of the people who come to worship. Passing the Sacrament and collecting fast offerings are two of their assignments. They follow the bishop's direction in taking care of the needs of the members. They are to assist the teacher whenever necessary and always promote that which is good. 2. Teachers Quorum. The teachers quorum has twenty-four members but a quorum may be formed with a majority of this number of teachers, that is, with from thirteen to twenty-four teachers. The presidency is selected in the same manner as was indicated for the deacons quorum. The teacher's duty is to watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them; And see that there is no iniquity in the church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking; And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty (D&C 20:53-55). Theirs is an eternal vigilance in maintaining proper social relations among the members of the Church. They are to be available to assist the priests and elders in their work — ordinance work excepted. They 791 OCTOBER 1963 may perform all duties assigned to deacons. 3. Priests Quorum. The priests quorum normally has forty-eight members; however, a quorum may be formed with a majority of this number, that is with from twentyfive to forty-eight priests. The bishop is their president and presides personally over the quorum. 'The priest has the power to perform any of the duties assigned to deacons or teachers. In addition, his duties are:... To preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and administer the sacrament, and visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties. And he may also ordain other priests, teachers, and deacons (D & C 20:46-48). 4. Social Implications. When reference is made to the temporal welfare of the Church, which is the Aaronic Priesthood assignment, we are not only thinking of the physical aspect such as buildings or food and clothing. The temporal welfare includes all of the social relations of the people. In the process of living together in families, wards, and stakes, individual differences may become the source of conflict and antagonism, or they may, under proper guidance, through accommodation and adjustment, be resolved without conflict in a stimulating and progressive environment. MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD QUORUMS In Section 124 of the Doctrine and Covenants, verse 126, referring to Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, and William Law, we read "that these may constitute a quorum and First Presidency, to receive the oracles for the whole church." This 792 is the first quorum in the Melchiz-. Edek Priesthood. In the same Section the following quorums were designated and became the pattern for the Church: the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, High Priests, Seventies, and Elders. In addition to the offices represented in the quorums of the Melchizedek Priesthood, there is the office of a patriarch. There are differences in the various duties and assignments of the various offices in the Melchizedek Priesthood — in reality, a division of labor that is essential to orderly operation of the government of the Church. This division of labor promotes the efficient advancement of the work for which the Priesthood is responsible. 1. The General Authorities of the Church. The quorums that constitute the General Authorities of the Church include the First Presidency, Quorum of the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy, and the Presiding Bishopric. The brethren in these quorums are all ordained high priests (with the exception that not all of the First Council of Seventy have been ordained high priests), but they also have the special office and calling pertaining to the duties and responsibilities of the assignment given to their particular quorum in the administration and operation of the government of the Church. The term "General Authorities" applies only to the members of the quorums listed in this paragraph and to the Patriarch to the Church and the Assistants to the Council of the Twelve. 2. High Priests Quorum. "High priests after the order of the Mel- chizedek Priesthood have a right to officiate in their own standing, under the direction of the presidency, in administering spiritual things..." (D & C 107:10). The high priest has the power to act in any office in the Priesthood when properly called and set apart for that office. To the high pnest is assigned the office of presidency. The Quorum of High Priests includes all ordained to this office within a stake. Any number of high priests within a stake are regarded as a quorum. 'They are presided over by a presidency of three selected from their membership. They hold one quorum meeting a month. However, the quorum members living in each ward of the stake are organized into groups with a group leader, a secretary, and a class instructor. 'They meet in groups each Sunday morning, a lesson is presented, and they receive instruction and direction from the quorum presidency. 3. The Quorum of Seventy. The Seventies Quorum is composed of seventy members; seven of the members are set apart as presidents. Thus this quorum is unique in numbers and organization. Whereas seventy is the normal number it would be regarded as a quorum if there were at least thirty-six members. Seventies in two or more wards or branches may compose a single seventies quorum. 'They would meet weekly in each ward or branch as a group, and monthly as a quorum. They are called as special witnesses to preach the gospel to all the world under the direction of the Twelve Apostles. Their meeting pattern is similar to that of the high priests. LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. The Elders Quorum. The elders quorum consists of ninetysix members, three of whom constitute the presidency. Often there are enough elders in each ward to form a quorum. A quorum may be organized if there are forty-nine elders in the ward (the majority of ninety-six). 'The quorum holds a meeting each Sunday morning. One meeting a month is devoted to quorum business, the others to instruction. The policy of the Church is to have every elder attached to a quorum, and where a sufficient number are not available in a given area, boundary lines are adjusted to make this possible. Elders in two or more wards or branches may compose a single elders quorum. In such a case, the quorum members of each ward usually meet weekly as a quorum group, and monthly as a quorum much the same as do the seventies and high priests. In a general sense, the term elder is applied to any man holding the Melchizedek Priesthood. It is often used in reference to an apostle. It is quite generally used when reporting the labors of a seventy or high priest. THE UNIT The term unit is used in connection with Priesthood organization in two situations. (1) It is possible in a stake to have less than the required number of seventies to form a quorum. The required number would be thirty-six or more. For example, in the event that there are twenty-five seventies only in the stake, a unit may be organized with a leader with two assistants and a 793 OCTOBER 1963 secretary. (2) In the mission field seventies' units are not likely but elders' units may be necessary. Where there are fewer than fortyeight elders in the mission field or where distance is an inhibiting factor in successful meetings, units may be set up with the same organization as indicated above. Most of the program of the seventy and elder quorums can be carried on in the unit organization. PRIESTHOOD OBJECTIVES The mission of the Church and the mission of the quorums is one and the same. It is stated as being threefold: (1) To carry on missionary work — to carry the message of the gospel to all the people of the world. (2) To perfect the saints — to develop a full realization of each person's possibilities under the direction of divine counsel and guidance. (3) To perform temple work — to provide the same opportunity for perfection to the worthy dead as to the living. Priesthood quorums are part of the revealed organization whereby adult brethren are trained and enabled to do their part in helping the Church to discharge its divine mission. To accomplish their mission quorums have four primary objectives: 1. To promote gospel scholarship by teaching the doctrine of the gospel. 2. To provide opportunities for Church service. 3. To care for the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of all quorum members and their families. 794 4. To provide adequate fellowship and fraternalism through socials, athletics, and the like for all quorum members (Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 20). POWER IN THE PRIESTHOOD Standing on top of the Grand Coulee Dam in the State of Washington, one may watch the tremendous flow of water and be truly awed at the power of this man-made waterfall. Inside the dam the harnessed power of this waterfall turns the battery of turbines which turn the dynamos producing an amazing volume of electrical energy. This energy turns the wheels of industry in the northwestern area of the United States at the same time providing light at night for many cities and for hundreds of thousands of family homes. 'This power is the product of the ingenuity of man. In comparison with the Priesthood of God, this man-made power is insignificant. Yet God has made his power available by conferring it upon man. This power, by which worlds were and are created and man himself came into being, is in the hands of the Priesthood bearer. The Priesthood has been given through divine law for the welfare and perfection of the saints. In the objectives listed above, the major task assigned to the quorums of Melchizedek Priesthood holders is the perfection of the saints through the operation of the government of the Church. This operation deals with people and provides direction for human conduct which will open the way whereby the human family may live together in peace. The Priesthood is the very lifeblood of the Church and kingdom of God. It is the unlimited knowl- edge, wisdom, power (force), experience, and love of God for all of his children. The only limitation upon the Priesthood bearer in the use of this power is his application of the principles of the gospel in his life, and his knowledge and understanding of the great plan of salvation. He must learn his duties, and not be slothful. As has been stated before, man can receive the fulness of the Priesthood only in observance of the new and everlasting covenant of marnage. (D & C 131:2.) The woman thus becomes a full participant in the blessings and glorious promises of the Priesthood covenants. She, therefore, has a challenging opportunity to assist her husband and sons by knowing the gospel, the requirements placed on her husband and sons in the discharge of their Priesthood duties, and by being a LESSON DEPARTMENT constant source of inspiration to them to fulfill their callings honorably. REFERENCES The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 20, 107, 127. WiwTsor, JoHn A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 11, 12, 13. TaLMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter XI. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. When and under what conditions were the Priesthood quorums set up? 2. What is the relationship between Priesthood and Church government? 3. What do you think are the essential qualifications for a man to receive the Priesthood? 4. Why is it necessary to have such an extended division or set of offices and callings in the Priesthood? 5. What is the woman's responsibility for opportunity in the operation of the Priesthood? (Refer to DHC IV, page 602.) My Afghan Pearle M. Olsen There is more than plain yarn in my afghan. I see More than pattern and stitch in its wooled tapestry. It meant patience, experience, an artistic dream During weeks of crocheting, to create the theme Of rare charm in this afghan mother made for me. She saw loved ones and homes, as though in a parade, While her apt fingers fashioned the yarn of soft shade. Yes, her thoughts were sweet memories of long ago, As her love and affection were hooked in each row Of the afghan, so treasured, my dear mother made. 795 'J THREE PART CHORAL MUSIC FOR SINGING MOTHERS =. ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 =. COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen _.20 _ GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin _.25 = GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner _.30 — HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn 0.25 >_> LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain _ 25 Ye LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen.20 aa LORD IS MY SHEPHERD—Smart.20 a LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 a. O LOVE THAT WILT NOT LET ME GO—Schubert.20 —. OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.20 ia OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval see mm cee ce gece me ne meee meme ce ee me a ee a ee DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. [] On Approval [] Charge CJ Money Enclosed Semmes ese rs ee srw tenc snes scmeceanecesnereesnccccenescce Name reerrrrrtrrrrerr rir rier it rer revert terry 15 E. Lst South / salt Lake City 11, Utah} Open-Kettle Canning Christie Lund Coles I peel the yellow peaches And put the smooth halves Into the rich, sweet syrup, In the large kettle. Then I wait for them to steam, And slowly boil. I sniff the pungent aroma, I remove the sugar scum. When each peach Is crystalline clear And tender to the fork's touch, I spoon them into The sweating, sterile bottles, And seal: the gold of summer, Caught for a brisk, sun-hungry day At our winter table. Some prefer pressure canning, Or so they say. Yet, somehow, I still enjoy Canning my peaches The old-fashioned way. Hidden Worth Eva Willes Wangsgaard My mother found a cactus shoot Where ivy tendrils curled. It seemed too frail to be alive, Too weak to face the world. We laughed at her for planting it, The fragile, thorny thing, But loving care and nourishment Produced a cactus king. Whenever its great blossoms blow In honey-dripping red, I wonder how much goodness needs But to be found and fed. Two by Two Arline Cummings Two by two on a mission of love To reach out their arms to you, And we never can count the good they do As they travel two by two. Two by two, to the humble cot Or up to the mansion door — Does the sorrowing widow need them most Or the wealthy matron more? Two by two as friends they come, And their message is truth and light To show the way to celestial joy And teach us the Savior's might. Two by two on a mission of love To reach out their arms to you, And we never will know the good they do As they travel two by two. Come See Our New Store Under New Management CRAFT ITEMS Plastic — Ribbon Christmas Decor Chenille — Yarn Styrofoam — Glass Artificial Flowers Leaves — Copper Jewelry Findings Candles — Felt Crystal Marbles Hat Frames — Net Etc. PLAN NOW to go with us and visit THE NEW YORK WORLD'S FAIR in '64 Opens in April THE GREAT HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT (with Dr. T. Edgar Lyon) August '64 THE HOLY LAND including Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel, Turkey, Greece and Italy (with Dr. T. Edgar Lyon) March-April '64 BUS — RAIL — AIR — SHIP TOURS EVERY WHERE Let us arrange the travel to suit your group and see the difference! MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. (Bonded) 14 South Main St. 328-3161 Insist on the best! K. D. NOVELTY DISTRIBUTORS Salt Lake City — 3572 South 1950 West P. O. Box 19009 FREE CATALOGS AVAILABLE CARNIVAL & PARTY GOODS Crepe Paper — Circuits Fish Pond Items — Plates Cups — Table Coverings Balloons — Wigs — Hats Float Materials — Tickets New Year's Party Supplies Trophies — Pennants Tissue Balls, Bells, etc. Fund Raising Ideas Santa Suits — Etc. Hawaiian Tours November oe Rose Parade Tour Leaving December 28 By way of Las Vegas or San Francisco > Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Picture of an Old Red Barn Linnie F. Robinson I may never know the builder Of this eloquent red bam; Nor how the artist came to find Its deep entreating charm. I only know he must have sensed Fitness in slope and line of beam; With swift appraisal of the one Who wrought his inner dream, Making it a tryst in grace Upon a golden autumn hill — And I am rich because his hand Moved with such consummate skill. CRAFT MATERIALS — Mosaics Doll and Animal Faces Marble Craft Swiss Raffia Plastics Metal Trays Christmas Decorations 240 East 2nd South ZIM'S cuss ALL THE NEW HANDIAND ALL THE OLD FAVORITES — Copper Tooling Flower Materials Ribbons Styrofoam Basketry Many, many more Send 25¢c for new catalog and also receive our new booklet, 'Soap Fancies"' — directions for eight different soap novelties. Cost of catalog deductable from first order. Discounts to Groups — Dealer Inquiries Invited ZIM'S Salt Lake City, Utah 798 Is Our History a Continued Bible? "__ And so, if we had hours we might spend them hearing the same testimony from the lips of American prophets down to this day. As a people we are no more worthy than any other people, it may be that because of our neglect we are less worthy than any people; but it is true nevertheless that great covenants of profound influence on the earth have been fulfilled through us, the glory whereof belongs to a Covenantkeeping God. — Truly "God works in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform." OUR HISTORY IS, IN REALITY, A CONTINUED BIBLE WITH GOD'S MIRACLES NEVER ABSENT." HOW MUCH DO YOU KNOW OF OUR ISRAEL FAMILY HISTORY? WOULD YOU LIKE TO KNOW | MORE? | This book is the Ideal Christmas Gift. | ORDER YOUR COPIES NOW! You will be glad you did. HLUNS Hd ISOC 8 heed z S ~ wn = 2 "JOSEPH SMITH and OUR DESTINY" EARL W. HARMER, Publisher-Editor 1177 Yale Avenue, Salt Lake City 5, Utah (Detach Coupon and Mail) Please send _ copies to me. (PRICE $2.50 POSTPAID) Oooo canoe ene ene enncenannennceeees Enclosed Check or Money Order Name Ninety-five Ninety-one Mrs. Rosaria MariAN WILLIAMS Mrs. ARABELLA PARKINSON DAINES BEARDALL Logan, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minna MANDELKOW KIRCHOFF Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Ninety Mrs. Lucy Parkinson Lioyp.; Mrs. Mary E. Mayuetr Turrie Palo Alto, California Manti, Utah Mrs. Ruyopa ANN McCLELLAN CARDON Mrs. Rose ApAMs LiInDSEY CuRTIS El] Paso, Texas Salt Lake City, Utah Sidewalk Vignette Betty Isler Between parked cars | caught the scene — Three young women, bright and clean, Greeting their mother (she must have been, Dressed in deep rose, with soft gray hair). With unabashed affection there They kissed;. And through the traffic's blare | missed their words, but saw the gay Gathering in, as they walked away, Arm in arm, on the sunny day. | watched them wistfully out of range, Waiting for the light to change. AFE highest ratio of reserves-to-deposits in Utah At Zions Savings, your savings are backed by the most substantial ratio of reserves-tosavings deposits of any in Utah. And they are insured to $10,000, too. You can be sure of generous, twice-yearly earnings, because never in its 80-year history has Zions Savings ever missed paying a savings dividend to depositors. Savings earn full 4"/2 per year current rate compounded semi-annually 80th Anniversary—Utah's first savings and loan association ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association 33 E. First South - Downtown open Fridays 'til 6:30 4901 south State - Murray open Saturdays 'til Noon S@eeeeeoeoeoeeoeeeoeoeeoeoeoeeeeeeeeeeeeed HAWAIIAN TOUR in October Aloha Week Dedication of Polynesian Village at Laie ROSE PARADE TOUR 9 days — December 27-January 4 Las Vegas, San Diego and Los Angeles Including Lawrence Welk and Dinner at the Palladium, etc. ROSE PARADE TOUR 10 days — December 27-January 5 Reno, San Francisco and Los Angeles Including Hearst Castle, Lawrence Welk and Dinner at the Palladium, etc. 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover ~ $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles..54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah BOOKS FOR EVERY LDS HOME from Deseret Book 1. ILLUSTRATED BOOK OF MORMON A handsome, hard cover, 7" x 1014" volume with new, easy-to-read large type. Contains thirty-four pages of full color illustrations including twelve popular Book of Mormon paintings by the internationally-known LDS artist, Arnold Friberg. Other illustrations include color pictures of ancient American ruins and artifacts. Only $3.95 2. THE LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, VOL | by Roy W. Doxey In time for conference, Row W. Doxey, author of Doctrine | and Covenants and the Future, Doctrine and Covenants Study Guide, and the Book of Mormon Study Guide, has now compiled a text that offers commentary on the Doctrine and Cove- | nants as found in addresses of the General Authorities of the 7 of the Church. The amplification and illustration of principles. Of the gospel presented in modern relvelation are by members of the First Presidency, Council of the Twelve, Assistants to the Twelve, The First Council of Seventy, Presiding Pattriarch and Presiding Bishopric. In this respect, the book is rich, new and different. Mr. Doxey, presently a member of the General Board of the YMMIA, and Assistant Professor of Religion at Brigham Young University. $3.95 Visit the Deseret Book store nearest you for the finest in Church Literature. Deseret Book Company AA. East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ASS E> SS AW ZZ Gentlemen: Enclosed please find [] Check [] Money Order [J I have an account. Please Charge. Amount enclosed $ for encircled numbered books. 1 Z \\E i NGAP OSS on eee enn eeeeee cece eceasececaccesececeeceseeeccesesencoeernens7 ceaeeessoeess2====aeanen Gity 2 aZone ---------State --..--------+------ -cudeeceee Residents of Utah include 2% sales
