50th ANNIVERSARY YEAR ER 4 TUNE 1963 _ is the wild terrain n, forest, bouldered river-b one minarets, cathedral hig the wind, each weathered p: tinels the summer sky. Dic, is the gnteames land. - d is sonnef-disciplined: d, the motion. Of small win afing grass; precise and a pattern song. D thousand ories return e garden TOM When I opened my mailbox today, a treasure lay within — my Relief Society Magazine. I have never been without access to this precious Magazine since I was old enough to read it. First, I enjoyed it in my mother's home, and for almost forty-five years have had it in my own home. It has given me as much inspiration as any factor in my life. I have loved all the issues which have featured President McKay and _ Sister McKay. 'To see their dear faces and learn more about their lives have made me very happy, and given me a desire to follow their example. This is also true of the lovely women who are chosen from time to time to be members of the General Board of Relief Society. —Annie E. Esplin Orderville, Utah May we express our appreciation for the beautiful Relief Society Magazine. The March issue is more than outstanding — it is wonderful! 'The wards in our stake have all commented on this issue for its lovely illustrated pages, and the many informative articles. 'The article by Christie Lund Coles ""We Can't Be Perfect" we feel is so timely that we plan to use it for our summer message for June —Della H. Teeter President Denver West Stake Relief Society I would like to renew my subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. It really isn't much if you consider what you get for it, and in such a handy small size. When you are sick, it is not too heavy to hold, and if you have to wait in the doctor's office or bus depot, the Magazine is easy to take along in your purse and read it there. I am still the only woman Church member here in Yorkton, so there is no Relief Society. So that is why I appreciate the Magazine doubly. —Hendrika Blomwaert Yorkton, Saskatchewan Canada 402 heer tied ta I appreciate the Magazine so much. In the January issue I enjoyed the addresses by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen. These articles are so timely, with the styles of dress as they are today. I think every teenager and parent would profit by reading these articles. Every bit of the Magazine is beautiful — the poetry, stories, articles, features, lessons, the color work, pictures, and the gorgeous covers. I have read aloud to my husband and children the serial "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin, and when little Jill was lost, my children could hardly wait for the next issue to arrive. —Mrs. Darwin Thompson Salmon, Idaho My March issue just came and it is a beauty! I just love the color illustrations. The sewing articles are especially interesting to me. My daughters, four and seven, want to have a cooking party, too. —Lois Sundberg Downey, California I would like to thank Sister E. Thomas Lloyd of Salt Lake City for her kindness in sending me a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. I think it is an inspiration to our women. I have been a member of the Church for over forty years. It was not, however, until 1960-61 that the Relief Society was started in the potteries. The Church here had been closed for about thirty years. In July 1960 four elders came to the potteries district. 'They were Elders Seely, Barnes, Tucker, and Lloyd, the latter being a son of our dear Sister Irene Lloyd. The branch which these boys founded in my home has grown to almost eight hundred members. —Doris Wiggins Stoke-on-Trent England 

The Rehet society Magazine VOL. 50 JUNE 1963, NO. 6. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager 
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES 404 Words of Love and Counsel From Emma Ray Riggs McKay 410 He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part I President Brigham Young Preston Nibley 418 Safety Makes Sense Irmagene N. Holloway 424 Essentials of the Short Story Rosa Lee Lloyd 435 Norway —A Road By the Sea Claire Noall 452 Annual Report for 1962 Hulda Parker FICTION 412 Tuesday Is Relief Society Ruth Nicholson Pepper 416 His Life's Savings Frances Yost 426 Keep My Own — Chapter 6 (Conclusion) Kit Linford GENERAL FEATURES 402 From Near and Far 421 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 422 Editorial: The 133d Annual Church Conference 462 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker FEATURES FOR THE HOME 432 A Patio Dinner for Summertime Linnie F. Robinson 440 An Oriental Buffet Olive W. Burt 444 A Wedding Ring Tree Florence C. Williams 445 A Golden Bouquet Florence C. Williams 446 Let's Grow African Irene Dunlap 451 Iaeli Pe'a, Artist of Samoan Handicrafts LESSON DEPARTMENT — PREVIEWS FOR 1963-64 468 Theology — The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 470 Visiting Teacher Messages — Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson 472 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Virginia F. Cutler 473 Literature — America's Literature Briant S. Jacobs 476 Social Science — Divine Law and Church Government Ariel S. Ballif POETRY 401 Rhymed or Pattern Free — Frontispiece Alberta H. Christensen Strange Loneliness, by Christie Lund Coles, 409; Double Exposure, by Elaine Stirland McKay, 415; As Sudden Roses, by Ida Elaine James, 426; Full Moonlight After Rain, by Evalyn M. Sandberg, 479; Mountain Sari, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 480. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511: Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Words of Love and Counsel HE following excerpts from the writings of Sister McKay which have enriched the pages of The Rehef Society Magazine in past vears are presented herc for the women of the Church. Thev offer glimpses of Relief Society activities of Sister McKay, and her teachings as an exemplary homemaker to the tens of thousands of women who love and esteem Sister McKay and wish her good health and happiness on her eighty-sixth birthday, June 23, 1963 [Editorial note]. CONFERENCE ON PREVENTION OF CAUSES OF WAR (From a letter wmtten to Mrs. Susa Young Gates, dated May 16, 1924, in Liverpool, England.) My dear Sister Gates: Your letter asking me to be a delegate to the International Convention of Women, at Wembley, came as a great surprise. I was delighted, though, and when a few days later a letter arrived from Lady Aberdeen inviting me very cordially to attend the convention, I wrote my acceptance. I want to thank you for this wonderful opportunity; it far excelled my expectations. The talks were all worth while and most of them especially fine and well delivered The exhibition at Wembley is an excellent one, especially the exhibitions of Canada, Australia, and West Africa. We had not much time for sightseeing between meetings and rushed away immediately after the closing of the convention; but we had a hurried view of most of it and enjoyed everything immensely. In Durham House we are housecleaning, papering, etc., with all their accompanying joys. A dry day has been looked for longingly that we might have our carpets beaten but not until today has the sun shone warmly. And even today the clouds had to loosen up a bit. Again with many thanks for your kind thoughtfulness, I am, Very lovingly, Emma Ray McKay (The Relief Society Magazine, August 1924, page 409) 405 JUNE 1963 ADDRESS AT RELIEF SOCIETY TORS CONFERENCE, APRIL 3, O say that I enjoyed my missionary work in Europe is expressing it mildly. I love the British country, even with all of its rain, and I love the British people, their genuineness, their honesty, and their quiet refinement. I was surprised at the richness of Germany and at the quality of her people. 'To see young girls there two hundred fifty of them in a Bible class with their Bibles all marked with red and blue ink, as the missionaries' Bibles are, and to hear them answer every question, was a delight. The scenery of Switzerland and Norway was a delight, even as our own mountain country is, and every country was so full of interest that my sojourn was a continuous joy. Nearly all the time we were associated with Latter-day Saints, so we felt right at home in whatever country we were visiting. We arrived in Europe at an opportune time when the conferences were on, and by the reports of the presidents I was able to learn early of the excellent work being done, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to face continually. It was the desire of the president of the mission that the auxiliary organizations be up to the standard of the auxiliaries here, so we went into the details of Relief Society work. We instructed the officers regarding their duties and the di- 406 vision of responsibility of their work. We advised regular audits of Relief Society books, and Relief Society reports at quarterly conferences. Prayer meetings before regular Relief Society meetings were established and this brought the officers to the meetings in better time and brought also a better spirit in the meetings. The main thing established was the study of the regular lessons in the Magazine. The poet says so long as we love we serve, and so long as we serve others, we are indispensable. Relief Society women in Europe love to serve, and are indispensable in the highest sense of the word. Heaven blesses them for working as they do, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to put up with. May we emulate their example. (The Relief Society Magazine, June 1925, Pp. 318-320) FAMILY PRAYER RUE prayer springs from the sincerity of the soul. To be successful in rearing a family to be true Latter-day Saints in every sense of the term, parents must be sincere. They must do as they pretend, perform what they promise, and really be what they appear to be. They profess to pay tithes; then the children should know that they pay an honest tithing. 'They are supposed to keep the Word of Wisdom; therefore, boys and _ girls should never see liquor, tea or cof- fee in the home. They are asked to have family prayers, and family prayers there should be. Prayer in the home leads children to God. It teaches them, as the Bible says, that He is a "rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." They learn that He is good, that He loves us, and that He is willing to help us if we have sufficient faith in Him to keep His commandments. Listening to father as an example, the child learns to improve his prayers, to keep them from being prayers of pure selfishness, to pray not so much for earthlv things as for light, strength, and courage to carry on, and, if he lacks wisdom in something that seems very vital to him, to ask advice from Him who "giveth to all men liberally." (The Relief Society Magazine, April 1942, PP: 254-255) CONTROLLING CHILDREN Y experience has taught me that a mother's control over a child is lost or gained during the first few years of its life. Many a young mother with a smattering of psychology, who thinks correction will ruin her children's will power, lets them follow their own desires whether wise or unwise. Proper guidance in youth will prevent undesirable tendencies and encourage confidence in later life. Wise direction is not arbitrary, but kind and firm. Children should follow their own desires so long as WORDS OF LOVE AND COUNSEL these desires do not prompt them to be destructive, do not impose upon others, or do not injure the children's characters. (The Relief Society Magazine, July 1943, page 365) «A MESSAGE TO RELIEF SOCIETY ECAUSE of many accomplishments achieved by Relief Societies while Church edifices are being built, I wish to commend all you wonderful women who spend many days, weeks, and months in helpful service, painting, preparing new buildings for use, cooking and serving banquets, and taking on added responsibilities in the home while husbands are working on projects. May our Heavenly Father bless you with especially good health to endure this sublime service. (The Relief Society Magazine, August 1956, page 501) CLEANLINESS 6 'CLEANLINESS is next to Godliness"' is a quotation familiar to everyone. Godliness is defined as "The careful observance of the laws of God." We desire to keep the laws of God and, if cleanliness is next to the observance of these laws, we certainly should have a desire to be clean, whether it be in body, mind, or heart. While cleanliness of our homes and habits, considered hygienically, is of great importance, its effect up- 407 Emma Ray Riggs at Sixteen Years of Age on the character of the members of the household is very important, for, generally, as the home is, so is the child. Now, as to the cleanliness of the soul. In Psalms we read, "He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart... Shall stand in his holy place" (Psalms 24:4, 3), and in the New Testament, Paul says, "... Let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God." Begin very early with your little girl to build a strong character that she may be able to resist uncleanliness whether physical, mental, or moral. Then, if gentleness, kindness, love, cleanliness, and morality exist in the home, she can look upon the wickedness of the world in disdain and disgust at the low thoughts on the screen and in publications and they will influence her character not one whit. Teach her that according to The Book of Mormon "... Neither can filthiness or anything which is unclean be received into the kingdom of God..." (Alma 7:21). (The Relief Society Magazine, November 1957, pp. 716-718) x Ke K K Picture on opposite page: Sunlight and Summer, Eastern Slope of Mount Timpanogos, Utah. Photograph by Willard Luce. &, nal neliness F £ an: reli hy al > | trange La ' Christie Lund Coles & grown lonely for the loneliness ystal sky, and distant stretch of hill *: oa". R+ On hill; the notes of cowbells. Growing still, f On. Country evening; for the quietness — if. Yelyet-cushtoned night, while gentleness Ee fs. Jin the fouth ef rising winds that fill _ mae The fingered tranches of the poplars, till * Feds hey brush thé lifted hand with their cares: — - am Been so alone, and known such acrid pain, w yearn for yearning which | knew when y. Hich was part of stillness and still spaces,. Ae.; eWaiting the silver touch of valley rain. °° % Lhe: longlinessy+hag 0 pure sky, Age ts. He "6 F a Pe 2 # have been lonely in such crowded places, ~ rf f —— — = He Knew the Prophet RIGHAM Young was born at Whitingham, Vermont, June 1, 1801. He was the ninth of eleven children born to John and Abigale Howe Young. The family was poor and Brigham did not have an opportunity to attend school; the total time that he attended school was only "eleven days." When Brigham Young reached the age of fourteen, his mother died, and from that time on he made his way alone. He went to work and gradually learned the carpenter's trade. At the age of twenty-three he was married to Miriam Works of Port Byron, New York. In 1829 they were living in Mendon, New York, the parents of two daughters. A copy of The Book of Mormon, printed in Palmyra, New York, in 1830, was soon afterwards put into his hands. He believed what he read and was baptized and became a member of the Church. Due to his diligence as a member of the Church, his rise was rapid. In 1835, he was chosen as a member of the first Quorum of 'Twelve Apostles; in 1841 he was made the President of the 'T'welve, and in 1848, after the death of Joseph Smith, he became the President of the Church. During the twenty-nine years that he led the Church, due to his great ability and judgment, he left it securely founded, as upon a rock. The man who restored the gospel 410 Joseph Smith Part I — Presipenr BricHAaMm Younc and the organization of the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith, he regarded as the greatest man who had lived since Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Following are a few of the comments which President Brigham Young made, during his lifetime, about the Prophet Joseph Smith: "What I have received from the Lord, I have received by Joseph Smith; he was the instrument made use of" (Journal of Discourses 6:280). "I feel like shouting Hallelujah all the time, when I think that I ever knew Joseph Smith, the Prophet, whom the Lord raised up and ordained, and to whom he gave keys and power to build up the Kingdom of God on earth and _ sustain it. These keys are committed unto this people, and we have power to continue the work until everything is prepared for the coming of the Son of Man" (Ibid., 3:51). "Joseph Smith has laid the foundation of the Kingdom of God in the last davs; others will rear the superstructure" (Ibid., 9:364). E HO can say aught against Joseph Smith? I was as well acquainted with him as any man. I do not believe that his father and mother knew him any better than I did. I do not think that a man lives on the earth that knew him any better than I did, and I am bold to say that, Jesus Christ excepted, no Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian better man ever lived or does live upon this earth. I am his witness" (Ibid., 9:332). "Many of the Prophets have sealed their testimony with their blood, that their testament might go forth with force and not return void. As in ancient days, so in modem days. When Joseph Smith sealed his testimony with his blood, his testament from that moment was in force to all the world; and woe to those who fight against it" (Ibid., 19:5). "The question was asked a great many times of Joseph Smith, by gentlemen who came to see him and his people, "How is it that you control your people so easy. It appears that they do nothing but what you say; how is it that you can govern them so easily?' Said he, 'I do not govern them at all; the Lord has revealed certain principles from the Heavens by which we are to live in these latter days. The time is drawing near when the Lord is going to gather out his people from the wi: ked and he is going to cut short | is work in righteousness, and the principles which he has revealed, I have taught to the people and they are trying to live according to them, and they control themselves" (Ibid., 13:176). "My name is had for good and evil upon the whole earth, as promised me. Thirty years ago Brother Joseph, in a lecture to the Twelve, President Brigham Young From a portrait by C. R. Savage, said to have been one of the last portraits of President Young. Said to me, "Your name shall be known for good and evil throughout the world,' and it is so. The good love me, weak and humble as I am, and the wicked hate me; but there is no individual on the earth but what I would lead to salvation, if he would let me. I would take him by the hand like a child and lead him like a father in the way that would bring him to salvation" (Ibid., 10:297). "From the day that Joseph obtained the plates, and previous to that time, the Lord dictated to him. He directed him day by day and hour by hour (Ibid., 8:66). "Joseph continued to receive revelation, ordinance upon ordinance, truth upon truth, until he obtained all that was necessary for the salvation of the human family" (Ibid., 16:42). 411 66 PF IE. Still, little worm," Marjorie laughed down at her tiny son, as she wrestled with kicking chubby legs and squirming fat body, pinning on his napkin. "Don't you know we're going to be late?" Swiftly, with practiced hands, Marjorie finished dressing her baby, her eye anxiously glancing at her watch — ten minutes before the bus came. Thank goodness she had only to the end of the block to run. As she pulled on the tiny white socks and attempted to push small, perversely arched feet into the shoes, she checked through in her mind the last-minute jobs to be done before she went off to Relief Society. As usual, it was going to be splitsecond timing, but she could make it. "There now, Chris, my boy," she told him, popping him down on the carpet. "Be good for one minute, then off we'll go." With a gurgle of joy at his release, he crawled promptly over to the open drawer. Sighing, she let him, leaving him to pull out the baby clothes onto the floor. No time to thwart or 412 Ruth Nicholson Pepper Corrimal East, fl INS N. S. W., Australia; m Aa ae "$ i) distract him — at least it would keep him out of other mischief until she was ready herself. Quickly she slipped on her coat and popped comb, handkerchief, gloves, and extra napkin into her basket. Let's see, she thought, as she went through to the kitchen, purse, Relief Society Magazine, Chris' formula, a rusk, just in case he began to feel the pangs of hunger before she returned at lunchtime. All ready? No. Sister Peterson had reminded them all last week to bring their sewing equipment. As Marjorie quickly went to her sewing box, there was a knock on the back door. "Marjorie, are you there, dear?" It was Mrs. Renton, a neighbor. Marjorie was dismayed for a moment. She was going to be late for sure, now. Opening the door to her talkative neighbor, she said, "Oh, hello, Mrs. Renton." "Oh, you're on your way out. I won't keep you a minute then, dear. I wondered if you had any mixed spice you could lend me until I can send Ron down to the store. I just started making those special cookies of yours and find I'm all out of spice." "Yes, of course, Mrs. Renton. I think I have some here, up in the cupboard." She went to have a look. "I'm just on my way for the nine-forty bus," she added, hoping that Mrs. Renton would take the hint. "Going anywhere nice?" she asked, easing her plump self into a kitchen chair. "It's Relief Society morning," Marjorie answered quickly, trying to keep calm as she saw her neighbor was going to take her time. "T don't know how you manage to get out as much as you do, with a voung baby and three at school. When mine were small I never went anvwhere — just didn't have the time. Now I'm older, I'm not well enough, of course." "You should come one 'Tuesday with me to Relief Society, Mrs. Renton, when you're feeling better. You would enjoy it," answered Marjorie, hoping upon hope that Mrs. Renton wasn't going to launch forth on the subject of health. Not now anyway. ORMALLY, Marjorie was only too happy to take time off to listen sympathetically to Mrs. Renton's troubles, with her indifferent health and her teenage family worries, but time was fast running out. Anxiously, she glanced at the kitchen clock. Four minutes to lock up and get to the end of the block. "Thank you, dear, I will one of these days." Mrs. Renton took the packet of spice. "I suppose I'm holding you up." Thankfully, she saw Mrs. Renton slowly get to her feet. "That's all TUESDAY IS RELIEF SOCIETY right, Mrs. Renton. I'm all ready. I've just to lock up the back door, then we can both go through the front,' she answered. "Better not forget young Chris." Mrs. Renton chatted on, following her, as she went for Chris, who was playing gaily on the floor, surrounded by half his entire wardrobe — rompers, shirts, socks, and pants. What a mess — but it would have to wait until she returned. Scooping up the little fat bundle, she hurried through to her bedroom and slid her stockinged feet into her high heels, then back again into the kitchen. "All ready?" Mrs. Renton asked, and as Marjorie picked up her basket, she nodded. "Yes, I think Pll just make it," she answered. She locked the front door behind them, and as they went up the path, Marjorie found herself half running, half walking, unconsciously chafing at having to match Mrs. Renton's ponderous steps. "What are you doing this morning at Relief Society?" her neighbor asked curiously. "You seem to have good lessons, judging by those Magazines you lend me." "It's work meeting morning. We are discussing home management. It's good for me,' Marjorie said hurnedly. "Then Sister Peterson promised to teach us smocking afterwards." 'Then she remembered. "Oh, dear, ['ve forgotten my sewing things!" She looked at Mrs. Renton, undecided. Had she time to slip back and get them? If the clock had been nght,. The bus was due any moment. 413 JUNE 1963 UT the decision was made for lner. "Here, give me Chris and I'll walk to the bus with him," said Mrs. Renton, suddenly brisk. "If the bus comes I'll ask the driver to wait a moment for you." With thanks for her helpfulness, Marjorie handed over her baby and dashed back to the house, running to her sewing box and popping the articles she would need into her basket. Slamming the door and locking it behind her again, she glanced up the path. A red-haired salesman, brief case in hand, greeted her cheerily. "Not today — [ll miss my bus," she almost panted. "Sorry!" And she ran past him, out of the gate and up the street once more. The bus passed the top of the street, slowing down to a halt just around the corner of the block. Mrs. Renton, with little Chris, was nowhere in sight. She hoped the driver could be persuaded to wait! As she rounded the corner, the bus was still there. Mrs. Renton was walking towards her, with her married daughter, who had apparently just got off the bus. But where was Chris? Mrs. Renton was carrying her own little grandson. "Chris is on the bus — a lady has him." "Thank you." Marjorie tried to smile, but couldn't help feeling annoyed that her neighbor had given her son to a stranger to mind. Suppose the bus had gone? She did not have time to dwell on it, though, and she was glad to jump on board. 'The bus began to move off even before she had thanked the driver for waiting or 414 paid her fare. Slipping her ticket into the basket, she glanced around at the faces before her, searching for her baby. Curious faces stared up at her; disinterested faces turned away — blank faces. No Chris. Must be up the back, Marjorie thought, and as the bus gathered speed, she walked unsteadily up the aisle looking to each side for the woman who had her baby. Y the time she was two thirds of the way along the bus and she could see all the occupants, she felt a small niggle of doubt in her heart. Where was Chris? Don't be silly, Marj, she told herself, as she turned around, he's probably up in front, after all. But he wasn't. Panic rose in her throat like a choking hand, and as she looked around frantically, the bus almost swaying her off her feet, she tried to stay calm. 'Trembling, she made her way back to the driver. She must ask him to stop and let her get off. 'There had been a mistake. Her baby was not on the bus. Just as she was about to speak, a woman came up behind her. Darkhaired and slim, she smiled in a hard way, pointing to Marjorie's Relief Society Magazine in_ her basket. "If you want to know where your baby is, look on page 27, and be there at noon today." Hardly knowing what she did, Marjorie obeyed, sinking into an empty seat beside her. Page 27 — it was a picture of a park. A park? She did not understand. She did not understand anything! Marjorie looked up for the woman to explain, but she had gone. Unbelievingly, the word kidnapped went through her mind. The woman, the red-haired salesman, Mrs. Renton — had they all been in the plot to kidnap her baby? What was happening? Where was her baby? She must stop the bus. She was weeping now, the tears rolling down her cheeks. "Stop the bus — please — my baby — I've lost my baby!" She could hardly speak for the sobs in her tight throat, and the bus driver did not hear hon "Mv baby." TUESDAY IS RELIEF SOCIETY GOMEONE began to shake her by the shoulder, gently and insistently, and her husband's sleepy voice was at her side. "Wake up, sweetheart — you're dreaming." "What? It's Chris." She opened her eyes and saw Don in the darkness. "I'm dreaming," she repeated, still not quite awake, and she could feel the wetness of her cheeks. Slowly she smiled with utter relief. "Thank goodness." When morning came it would be Tuesday, and she would go to Relief Society. Double Exposure Elaine Stirland McKay Oh, how I love the sun's first rays Upon a mountain peak— The gold surprising purple hills And playing hide and seek. While streaming down the mountainside And causing day to break Across the world... And leaving trails Of gladness in its wake. But let me watch the sun go down Upon vast level plains Where as a child | saw it set A hundred clouds to flames Above an earth which gentle hands Had smoothed ail wrinkle free, And left a solitary oak To guard tranquility. 415 His Life's Savings Frances Yost A NN Lindley wished she had a -\_ private room instead of being in the maternity ward. It would take care of this... This embarrassment of not having any Mother's Day presents to exhibit. The other three young mothers had such an assortment. It was rather hard to keep smiling and saying "How lovely, how nice," and never be able to unwrap a gift and say "See what I have." Only yesterday when the three of them had been chatting, Carma Rogers and Reah Summerlaid had come right out and said they didn't have money to pay for their hospital care, and the doctor would simply have to wait for his fee. Today, they were accepting all sorts of presents from their husbands. It seemed rather false economy to Ann. Yet, from the looks of things, she was the one not in harmony, the one out of step. Because she was married to a sensible man, who put first things first. Les was one to pay his bills even though it never left anything for frills. But how could you explain that to two inexperienced young mothers? She wouldn't try. Ann turned over in her bed and faced the green wall. Green was supposed to be soothing. She guessed she was just tired of these hospital walls. She thought of the pale blue wallpaper in her bedroom at home, with the tiny pink roses. Some people might call her wallpaper "busy," but it surely was com- 416 forting to her. Ann wished she was there, with little Mike and Ricky close by, and the new baby there, too. Presents didn't really matter. Yes, she would have to chalk this miserable feeling all up to homesickness. Surely she wasn't jealous of another's gifts. Things had never been too important to Ann. People were the important thing. Ann wished Les would come. She looked at her wristwatch. Visiting hours would be over in ten minutes. She wondered if Les had taken the little boys to Sunday School. He probably had, that was why he was late getting here. Surely he would come to see her... On Mother's Day. Ann closed her eyes and pretended sleep. If the others in the room thought she was asleep, they would stop their chatter about gifts for awhile. Ann wished she could actually sleep, not just have to lie here and pretend. No, she must not cry. That would be rather silly, downright childish to break down and cry. She was a big girl now, a mother with three little children. She smiled, thinking about her children. Mike was seven and enrolled in school. He could print so nicely. Ricky was three, and of course, there was baby Sue now, almost a week old. Ann would like nothing better than to be home, in her own bed. She could visualize the picture so plainly, the little boys peeping over the edge of the bed, watching baby Sue as she quietly slept in her arms. Ann felt tears coming in spite of herself. She reached under her pillow for her handkerchief. She knew the hospital provided disposable tissues, but to reach a tissue, she would have to turn over to the night stand. If she lay here on her side, the others would still think she was asleep. It was good not to hear chatter about candy, flowers, fancy nighties, and things. 'STARLING, are you asleep? I'm sorry I was late getting here, Ann." Ann opened her eyes. She guessed she had dozed off after all. She looked up. Les was smiling down at her, so handsome and solicitous. What was he saying? "Ann, the doctor said it would be all night for you and baby Sue to go home today. Aunt Beth said she would be most happy to stay on and help out as long as we need her. Do you want to slip on your clothes and go home?" "Oh, Les, I'd love to go home." Les reached in his pocket, took from it a slip of paper, and handed it to Ann. "A receipt from the hospital, paid in full." Ann smiled at him. "Got one from Doctor Simonson, too." Les beamed. "That's a mighty fine Mother's Day present, to have one's baby all paid for, the very best." "Mother's Day! I guess I forgot all about that." Les looked sheepish. "That reminds me. Mike sent something. He asked me to be sure and give it to you." HIS LIFE'S SAVINGS Les reached in his breast pocket and brought out an envelope and handed it to Ann. "What is it?" "Search me. Mike said it was a secret, special for Mommie. He's a pretty excited boy about it, though." Ann was all thumbs as she tore open the smudgy envelope. She pulled out a card. She remembered having seen the card. It had come to Mike on his birthday several months ago. At the top he had carefully erased his name and printed Mother. At the bottom he had carefully erased "From Grandma" and printed "from your children." Over the "Happy Birthday" was pasted a clipping from the daily paper advertisements which read Mothers Day. 'True, the whole thing was a seven-year-old job. The evidence was there, he had done it all himself. It was mighty nice to be remembered. Just then a tiny envelope fell from the card. "What's this?" Ann asked. "Search me." Then Les added proudly, "We have quite a boy, our Mike." Ann ran her fingernail under the flap and loosened the seal without tearing the envelope. Out fell two dimes and a nickel. Mike had been saving his money for a long time. Ann knew it was for something special. She had supposed it was something for himself, but he had given it to her. Ann couldn't look up into Les' eyes just yet. She wasn't quite ready to smile. Something was happening to her heart. Her tiny son had remembered Mother's Day all by himself.. He had given of himself, all (Continued on page 479) 417 Irmagene N. Holloway Safety Program Specialist, Division of Accident Prevention Public Health Service, U. S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare T is night. The telephone rings. Half awake, you quickly jump out of bed for a race to the phone. You fail to turn on the electric light, because the switch is on the other side of the room. You hurry to answer the phone and, since you are still drowsy, you trip on a rug or over a stool or chair, and fall... An accident! You are the loser — and not just in the race to the phone. The result is time spent recuperating, money paid out for medical attention, and pain. The green light changes to amber, and amber to red, as you attempt to walk across the street. You halt suddenly, but not quickly enough. A speeding motorist hits you, and you drop to the street unconscious — time lost, money spent, and pain suffered — another tragedy. These stories do not describe pleasant pictures, but you know that each of them happens almost every day. "Why?" you ask. Someone failed to think. 'That person did not consider his course of action or examine and make safe his physical 418 environment. Each accident in the past had causes; each accident in the future will have causes. The reasons will be definite and specific. No one knows the time, the manner, or the place where an accident will happen to him. It seems to be a common philosophy to think that an accident will happen to that other fellow. "It couldn't happen to me" has haunted safety personnel for years. For too long people interested in preventing accidents have been haunted by one other phrase, too: "Accidents are a matter of fate." Each day we read of someone's life being cut short by an accident. This is not a hopeless situation, however. 'There are many ways in which one can live safely in an everincreasingly hazardous environment. This means knowing what to do and performing in a safe way. This pattern for safe conduct should become part and parcel of our living experiences. How to do it is a question for all of us. First of all, we must recognize that accidents are in some ways like a disease. And as such, the causes need to be found and programs developed which will enable the person to know how to prevent them. It is scientific information that ls needed: the why, the where, the to whom, and what can be learned to prevent accidents. The question: "Where do most accidents occur?" has an interesting answer. Most accidents occur in a place where you least expect them to occur — this is in the home. In traffic, as a pedestrian and as a driver, you expect to find them, and you do. In the National Health Statistics from the United States National Health Survey, 1962, we find "45 million persons per year sustained injuries requiring medical attention or causing restriction of usual activities for a day or more 18,772,000 were injured in the home." Fatalities in_ traffic have now reached the 40, coco mark for one year. ACCIDENT statistics deal in numbers and are meaningless until they are related to human beings. As Christians, we are interested in the individual and in ways to free him from accidents as much as from polio or smallpox. It is true that we react to statistics with our own prejudices and knowledge. If a member of our family has experienced an accident, this accident category in a listing of statistics has a different meaning than if no one close to us had been injured. The Public Health Service views accidents as in some ways comparable to disease. Our unique contribution is an application of the SAFETY MAKES SENSE technique of epidemiology, i. E., to find the source of the disease and treat it accordingly. To do this we employ scientific observation and inductive reasoning to develop an understanding of mechanisms of disease and accidental injury. In traffic accidents, we would seek information about the car, the driver, and his passenger; about the environment, the road, the weather, or the lighting; and the agent, the automobile. 'To prevent accidents one or more of these groupings may need to be modified. Malaria was controlled by depriving the carrier insects of a home — draining swamps or spraying them with insecticide. Finding the causes of accidents can be a way to prevent them in the future — by eliminating or minimizing the hazard. Something can be learned from each accident. Listen to its message and incorporate into your pattern of living those techniques which will prevent a recurrence. And, what is equally important, this information should be shared with others. To be afraid of having an accident is not a means of prevention. Rather, fear may cause you to become mentally and physically tense. This in turn prevents freedom of movement and may be conducive to a mishap. Knowledge of what should be done reduces the chance of injury. Some of the things which specifically can be done by a mother: 1. Become acquainted with the Family Safety Plan. 'This is the family getting together to discuss what each person can do to prevent accidents in the home, on the street, Al9 JUNE 1963 and in recreational activities. Many parents live in a fool's paradise in their belief that a few laws, a few signs, and a few policemen will keep their kiddies safe. Safety, like charity, must begin at home. Work meetings offer an excellent opportunity to get the sisters discussing the hazards which exist in all our homes, and methods for eliminating them — that our homes may truly be a place of refuge. Guidelines for the family to use in teaching safety might include the following: a. Set aside one night a month for the meeting. For the home, assign each person a responsibility — Dad might be the safety engineer; mother, safety supervisor; and the children, inspectors. Each child should be assigned inspection jobs which correspond to his age and interests. B. Inspect the home for hazards. Home inspection blanks might be secured from the National Safety Council, from an insurance company, or the local health department. Perhaps families might develop a checklist for their first meetings. This would be the first step in teaching family members to recognize a hazard when they see one. C. Keep a record of the accidents or near-accidents experienced by the family members. Study the accident and find the causes, and use this information to teach others what they should do. This will serve as a guide for the accidentprevention program. D. Erect a family safety bulletin board. This will be a place to keep the family up-to-date on what to do and _ perhaps commendation of those who have made an important contribution. E. Plan fire exit drills. These should consider the family during the sleeping hours as well as during the day. It is too late after the fire starts to think of this; the wise family has this worked out with the hope it may never be used. 420 f. Conduct quizzes on the prevention of accidents. These can be obtained from newspapers, or from organizations interested in prevention of accidents. The Slogan for the Family Safety Council might be "The Family That Works Together For Safety — Stays Alive." 2. Plan for neighborhood safety discussion groups. This could be a neighborhood = discussion, | which would get women talking about ways and means of preventing accidents in their community. Consideration should be given to hazards which might be found in the home, on the street, or in recreation. 'The emphasis should be on the prevention of accidents, and not a testimonial of the gory details of the unpleasant experience. It should be analysis of the accident to find the causes. When the causes are determined, then ways to prevent this accident should be pointed out. As your safety plan is developed, it is wise to remember that most people know much more about what to do to prevent the accident than most of us think. These ideals must be brought to a conscious level of thinking. 'The slogan for such a group might be 'Each One Teach One to Be Safe." A mother could use this slogan for herself and family. Make the habit automatic, Of cleaning up the attic. No clean and careful dweller Keeps rubbish in the cellar. It's foolish to deposit Oily dusters in the closet. Make with fire no alliances, Check electrical appliances. Be watchful and be wise, And you'll save the family lives. ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, was given the Distinguished Achievement Award at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, April 10, 1963. The award was presented by President John L. Clarke. Mrs. Spafford had been invited to speak at the Devotional Assembly, as a part of Women's Week, sponsored by the Associated Women of Ricks College. D*® ELIZABETH S. RUSSELL and her assistant Ann M. Michelson are a research team noted for their experiments in the field of muscular dystrophy. The two women, working under a grant from the Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, are on the staff of the Roscoe B. Jackson Memorial Laboratory at Bar Harbor, Maine. OAN BAEZ is one of the best ioved folk singers in the United States. Her voice has been described as "a strong, untrained, and thrilling soprano." Miss Baez represents a resurgence in popularity of a type of singing said to be descriptive of the "roots of the Nation." RS. RICHARD THOMPSON is director of costume research and design for the unique Shakespearean Festival of the College of Southern Utah in Cedar City. This festival has become an annual affair and this year will be presented July 8-24th. A completely. Authentic Shakespearean wardrobe of the best and most exquisite materials, valued at $28,000, has been amassed at a minimum cost because of volunteer labor on the costumes. Mrs. Norman Child, who has _ previously played leading roles in several of the plays, will probably appear as an actress again this year. Barbara Gaddie, Iron County School District Speech and Hearing Therapist, will direct the "Recorder Society" in providing music of the "Recorder," an ancient flute-like instrument, and other instruments of the Elizabethan period. ARYHALE WOOLSEY, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of The Keys and the Candle, published in March 1963, by Abingdon Press. The main character in the story is a youth who, as a scribe, aids in the translation and preservation of the precious manuscripts of the Bible. 421 EDITORIAL The 133d Annual Church Conference HE 133d Annual Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held in the historic Tabernacle, in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 5, 6, and 7, 1963. President David O. McKay,. Now in his ninetieth year, conducted all of the general sessions and the Saturday evening Priesthood meeting. He was assisted during the conference by his Counselors, President Henry D. Moyle and President Hugh B. Brown. Sister McKay also attended cofitereneeh and was lovniamy greeted as she entered and left the Tabernacle. Several of the General Authorities, presently serving as mission presidents, were excused from the conference sessions: Elder Mark E. Petersen of the West European Mission; Elder Theodore M. Burton of the European Mission; Elder Bruce R. McConkie of the Southern Australian Mission; Elder Marion D. Hanks of the British Mission; and Elder A. Theodore Tuttle of the South American Mission. Elder Levi Edgar Young of the First Council of Seventy was unable to attend the conference sessions on account of his health. It was estimated that some two million asap heard the conference proceedings either through their presence on 'Temple Square, by radio or television, or by special re-broadcasts in the early morning hours following each day's sessions. 'This was the greatest dissemination of the conference messages in the history of the Church. HE relationship of man to God and the role of the Church among the nations was presented in various phases of individual responsibility and service as missionaries and as examples of the commandments of the Lord. In his address on Sunday morning, President McKay spoke of the restored gospel as an ensign to the nations and declared that the worship of God, and helpful service to humanity are "the most ennobling of aspirations." The restored gospel, the Church, has reared an ensign to the nations, and. Invites the world to peace, to rest, to contentment. I invite you today to have in mind the various organizations of the Church: First, the Priesthood quorums; Second, the auxiliaries; Third, educational opportunities; Fourth, judicial phases of the Church; 422 Belle & Spaliord, Presidant Maticnne C Sharp, First Colinselo Louise W. Modsan, Second Counsals: Hulda Perter, Secratary-Treasurer and Fifth, the ecclesiastical groups.... Those who are active are working in an organized way for the betterment of one another, for the personal welfare of the membership, and for the good of society as a whole.... God bless and prosper the Church as it bears witness to the reality of the personality of Deity, and to the fact that God has again revealed himself to man, and established a means whereby spirituality, brotherhood, and universal peace may be fostered among the children of men. The Lord help us to be able to prove to the world that the restored gospel is just what the world today is longing for, and when they see it, may they know, as you and I know, that the everlasting gospel is a light to the world. RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle spoke of obedience to divine law as offering a solution to the problems of the world: The world is not just a watch that the Lord wound up and left to run down. By the exercise of faith men can call upon God and obtain his help in fulfillment of the promises he has made.... Christ's example and precept set in what is known as the Dispensation of the Meridian of Time control us today in our behavior and in our belief. This knowledge is priceless. The principles of the gospel can be understood and lived by all mankind. RESIDENT Hugh B. Brown declared that only the gospel of Christ can save the world from the dangers which threaten. Nothing but the gospel of love, the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, which we gratefully proclaim, can save the world or the individual from the dangers that threaten us. This is a gospel of character-building activity; of invincible faith and the courage that is born of faith; of repentance, the doorway to progress; of sanctification through baptism of watcr and of the Spirit, the doorway to the celestial kingdom. Let us take courage in the knowledge that Christ, the Prince of Peace, is at the helm. He has declared that the worth of souls is great in the sight of God. N delivering a farewell blessing to the saints, President McKay gave counsel and direction for the days to come: I am impressed with the thought everyone who has attended, either in presence or by listening in, no matter where he or she may be, must leave this conference with a greater determination to be a better man or a better woman; a better citizen of the town, county, or nation, than he or she has ever been before.... God help us to radiate strength, control, love, charity... Faith in God, love of humanity, service to his people wherever they are. 423 ESSENTIALS of the SHORT STORY Rosa Lee Lloyd [This article is presented as an aid for the authors who are preparing stories for entering in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May Magazine, and which closes August 15, 1963.| Beginning HE beginning of every story must have five steps: first, the character; second, the setting; third, the reason; fourth, the problem; then, the fifth step, the emotional reaction of your main character. These five steps can be stated very simply and in an easy way to remember: who, where, why, what's doing, and how your character feels about it. Reader Identification If your fifth step, the emotional reaction of your main character is done successfully, whatever. Your character feels your reader will feel. This is called "reader identification." Be sure to choose a story-idea that will appeal to the particular audience for whom you are writing. If it is a magazine for women, choose a subject that appeals to women. When writing for The Relief Society Magazine, your story might preferably be from the woman's point of view. Every single happening should be seen through her eyes and tell of her emotional reaction to it. 424 F'motional Struggle No matter what your story is about, the real struggle of the story is inside the mind of your main character, where, as one authority has said, two forces are fighting each other. At the end of the struggle your character must achieve something, learn something, or both. Let us suppose we have as our main character a wife and mother named Rachel, who is fearful for her children. The struggle which has been going on inside of her for many years is between her fear for their welfare and her love and desire for them to have the normal fun and activity that other children enjoy. Her husband is a capable, easygoing man who is athletic coach at the local high school. He has always objected to Rachel's fearful attitude toward their children. He is concerned with their safety and protection, also, but he wants them to express themselves bravely and fearlessly in normal activities. He symbolizes Rachel's desire for her children to be brave and active. Rachel has a younger brother who was thrown from a horse when he was a child and has a twisted spine. He symbolizes Rachel's fear for her children. This is the situation that has caused conflict in this family for many years. Story IncidentThe incident that is the immediate concern of this story is when their twenty-year-old daughter Peggy tells them she is in love with Johnny Grant, a bush-pilot from Australia. He has asked her to marry him and go to the bush country in faraway Australia. Conflict Rachel is overwhelmed with doubt and fear. The real struggle of the story is taking place in her mind, where fear for her daughter is fighting her love and desire for her happiness. Action The action and events in this story must show the mother's attempts to dissuade her daughter from this marriage and the father's attempts to convince his wife that she must be brave enough and trusting enough to let her go with their blessing. Black Moment There must be times in this story when it seems that Rachel has succeeded in making Peggy so fearful of life in the bush country that she will refuse to marry Johnny. This is the black moment when the negative force seems to be winning. ESSENTIALS OF THE SHORT STORY Scenes Your story must have dramatic scenes that build up to the crisis and the climax. Each scene must further the complication which is the difficulty your character faces. Transitions Have quick, easy transitions between the scenes. The editor or the present-day reader cannot take time to read long paragraphs of exposition. Crisis Each scene must lead up to the crisis where the reader holds his breath. It is the supreme predicament where the fate of your character hangs in the balance. The crisis is the turning-point in the difficulty your character faces. It determines the further action up to the climax and end of your story. Climax The crisis and climax in the short story should not be far apart. In a serial they may be as much as a chapter apart. Emotion Characterization is always related to emotion. When writing a-story you must ask yourself: what is the natural reaction of my character to such a situation? What will she do or be tempted to do? Always remember that even though people are different they have the same basic emotions. All fiction writing is based on emotion. 425 JUNE 1963 Theme At the end of the story I have outlined above, Rachel must learn to let her children live bravely and trustingly. Your story should say something worthwhile as its ultimate goal but you must not do this obviously. 'The action of the story must bring out its theme. The reader wants to be shown, not told. One magazine editor has said that if he felt differently about some phase of life after he read a story, he generally bought the story. Caution Do be careful not to make your story too emotional or your characters too sentimental. Tight, held-in, restrained emotion should be your aim in every emotional reaction. Then, when it does break through at the crisis and climax, it will have added effect. But, even then, it must be done with subtlety and finesse. Talent and Practice Your own talent and ingenuity are what make you want to be a writer, but the only way to learn to write a story is to write one. And then — another one. In any art, "practice makes perfect," and writing is an art and a profession. So good luck and good writing. As Sudden Roses Ida Elaine James From your midst | must go — From all these hallowed places Too deep in my heart for speech. | will not look back, although | leave behind these little graces; Wrench apart every and each Separate heaven So closely woven. In the heart's silence like snow | take garlands of faces, Far-ringing voices to surprise The stillness of my spirit-ears. Sweet-deep, soft, and low Echoes will reach Through doors of memories, As rose-mist blent with tears — Roses, years. ERRATUM IDAHO STAKE PERCENTAGE ON MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL Attention is called to the correct figures for the subscription percentage for Idaho Stake: Enrollment 452 — Subscriptions 460, Percentage 102. The figures were listed incorrectly in the Magazine for May 1963, in the tabulation of stakes on the Honor Roll. 426 Keep My Own Kit Linford CHAPTER 6 — (COoNcLUsION) HE furnace went "Whoom!" just as Granddad had predicted it would. The nights had turned so cold that Dick went downstairs the night after Kathy's birth to light the ancient old heating apparatus. He had returned and was washing his hands, when a queer puffing noise began filtering throughout the house. '"What's that racket?" Ella called from the kitchen. "Tm not sure," Granddad replied with a twinkle, "but Dick did just start the furnace going." "If that furnace is going to act like it might explode, I'm getting out of here right now," Ella threatened. "I don't think it'll do that. We might get smoked out. I don't think we'll get blown out." "That's not funny. Do you think we want smoke getting into everything?" Dick came into the kitchen. "Dick, do you hear that noise?" "I hear it. It's a safe bet the whole town can hear it. What about it, Granddad? Is it just objecting as it gets going? Puffing the idleness out? Or is it giving up entirely?" "It's puffing, but I'm no furnace doctor, and I can't diagnose the kind of puff. It sounds like first cousin to a freight train. For Irene's sake, I kind of hope it's giving up the ghost. If she heard it making that kind of noise, she'd be like as not to have a nervous breakdown." "Will you two stop being funny and do something?" Ella demanded. "It's getting louder!" "What do you want us to do?" Dick asked. "Turn it off? The nights are getting mighty cold and the days, sometimes, too." "We can wear sweaters and toss on extra blankets. At least for the time being. You'd better get a repairman here before Irene and Kathy come home...." The furnace gave a mighty puff that ended in a tortured wheeze. The whole house seemed to shake as the noise increased in volume. "Whoom!'' Granddad spoke his word as the furnace aptly illustrated it. (THE repairman shook his head. "Not worth repairing. You'll probably have to hire somebody to haul it off to the dump." The furnace installer shook his head, too. "Get rid of that monstrosity, and we could start to work right away putting in the new one. It'll take a couple of weeks to get the job done, at best." "A couple of weeks! My wife's coming home with a new baby the end of this week!" 427 JUNE 1963 "Sorry. These things take time." Granddad had remained silent during Dick's exchanges with the furnace men. As his grandson was showing them out, however, he heard his grandfather on the telephone. "That's right, bishop... A real problem. 'The baby isn't ill, you understand, but we'll have to be a bit careful for a time because of this lung condition she had at first. Certainly can't bring her or her mother back to this drafty old place without a good heating system in operation.... Yes, it has turned off cold... Not too early. It's to be expected this time of year.... Yes, that's about the size of it. I know I see. It certainly would. Yes.... Thanks a lot, bishop." Ella's breath floated in clouds about her as she bustled into her kitchen the following morning. Her nose was red. Her glasses covered with steam every time she exhaled. The metal frames absorbed the cold, and were like circles of ice on her face. Davy followed her. He wore his pajamas and woolly robe, with a blanket tossed about his shoulders. His feet nestled in fur mules. Only his nose and ears were scarlet red with cold. "Your Grandfather's making a fire in the library fireplace," Ella said to the boy, "and the cooking heat from getting breakfast will warm it up soon in here. Just sit there and wait a minute." AVY ran to the terrace doors. They had clouded with steam, but he rubbed it off with his hand and looked: out. 428 "What is it, Davy? What's out there?" Ella asked. She joined him. A large truck was backing into the drive. 'That was just the beginning. From that time forward for several days Ella had the oddest feeling that she had somehow moved backward in time. It almost seemed that they were back in the middle of the remodeling that they had all so gratefully put behind them. Fortunately, this time the major portion of the dirt and clutter was confined to the dark recesses of the cellar. Ella kept the door going downstairs closed as tightly as the many workmen going in and out would permit. ICK told Irene about it during visiting hours. "You just never saw anything like it. One hurried call to the bishop from Granddad, that's all it took. I think maybe everyone in Spencerside has had, or will have, a hand in installing our furnace. I know that anybody who has anything in the way of experience or know-how to contribute to the project certainly will." "But will it be ready....?" "Tm sure it will. You get that many men on a job, and it doesn't take long to get even the toughest ones done." Irene lay back on the pillow. Her blonde hair was pulled off her face with a wide pink ribbon. There were dark pink ribbons on her pale pink bed jacket. Dick thought fondly that she looked like a browneyed, pink-clad Christmas doll. Her eyes were dark and moist as she looked up at him. "They hardly know me," she whispered. "They hardly even know anything about me. But they're doing this for my baby and me." "As I always told you," Dick teased, "Spencerside's a real nice town." She was struck by a_ sudden thought. "What about Davy? Oh, Dick, the remodeling was such a trial for him. 'There were so many things he couldn't touch, and so many he had to be careful of... For such a long, long time! 'There were so many men working, and he always had to be careful to stay out of the way. It was unfair to the child, Dick, it really was. I used to feel so sorry for him. He was happier than any of us, when it was all ended and over with. What does he think of this furnace project?" Dick threw back his head and laughed. "You wouldn't worry if you could see him! Irene, that child is having more fun out of this than a monkey on a spinner. Ella's nearly had a fit about his being down in the cellar in all of it, but he's overseeing the whole operation. He knows we've got to get it done before the baby can come home, and as far as Davy's concerned, getting Kathy Ella home is the most important thing in the world. He looks like a chimney sweep, but he's happier than I've ever seen him. Ella says she'll never be able to get all the dirt and soot off him." He paused, reconsidering. 'Then, he said slowly, the laughter gone from his voice, "Maybe the fault of our therapy has been that we've all been so busy that Davy's felt useless. Just underfoot." Irene's tears spilled. They made tiny silver rivers down her cheeks. "Sometimes a little dirt can be a KEEP MY OWN good thing... When it's for a good cause. Davy needed something to occupy his mind until Kathy Ella and I come home. Oh, Dick, there are so many things I would do differently with Davy if I had it all to do over.", He took a tissue and dried her tears. "Come on now, honey, everybody feels like that at some time or another. But maybe not concentrating on him was the best thing we could have done. It gave him a chance to get adjusted to us and used to us without being or feeling forced. You can't tell. 'The doctor says he's doing wonderfully well. That's the only criteria we have. I'm sure that if he weren't, we'd hear about it." HE furnace was finished, and the last workman gone when Dick brought Irene home. As_ they pulled into the driveway, Irene was surprised at the emotion she felt. Granddad and Davy and Ella stood waiting on the porch. She was glad to see them. Of course she was, but the elation that enveloped her was more than that. It was almost a feeling of coming home. Granddad took little Kathy Ella, and cradling her close, carried her into the house with Davy at his heels. Kathy managed to sleep throughout the excitement. Ella and Dick helped Irene to the house. Granddad stood alone, looking down at the sleeping baby. "T don't want to wake her, and I can't climb the stairs without my cane. You'd better take her, Ella." Ella was only too happy to do so. Irene looked about. "Where's Davy?" 429 JUNE 1963 "He's upstairs, Irene, in the nursery," Granddad said as he eased into a large overstuffed chair. "That boy is beside himself with excitement. The furnace is his pet project, you'll probably have to go down and examine it just to please him when you're able." Irene wrinkled her nose, remembering Granddad and Dick teasing her over her aversion to the old furnace. "And I will, too," she said. | Davy sat on a_ straight-backed chair next to the bassinet. His book about babies lay on the work table. He stood when they entered, his timidity returning. He moved a little distance away. Ella gave the baby to Dick. "Tl go turn down Irene's bed. She must be tired by now." Flla was right. Irene sank wearily into the comfort of the little rocker. Dick laid the baby in her bed, then held out a hand to Davy. "Come and see the baby, Davy," he said. Davy accepted the _proferred _ hand. They stood together looking down at the sleeping infant. Irene watched through half-closed eyes, some of her earlier apprehensions about Davy returning to plague her. What would be his reaction to Kathy Ella after the newness wore off? Would he resent the attention she would undoubtedly command? Dared Irene trust him? What if he became jealous? Who could tell with a child that never spoke? Kathy began to fuss. Between the ruffles Irene could see a tiny pink fist waving in the air. She sat quite still, watching Davy. He was en- 430 chanted, and leaned closer to watch. Kathy was not content to be watched. She decided to cry. Davy drew back quickly mm concern and alarm. He looked up at Dick to see what should be done. Dick's onesided grin took the child into a charmed circle as he reached into the bassinet, lifting the baby out and cooing to her. "Hungry, sweetheart?" He winked at Davy as Kathy momentarily hushed. After only a moment's hesitation, he held the baby toward Davy. "Would you please take the baby to Irene, Davy?" [ RENE had to bite her tongue to remain silent. Davy slowly raised his arms. His eyes had widened. They were a little scared, but luminous with love. Dick laid the squirming treasure of humanity in Davy's arms. Perhaps Davy held the baby too close and too carefully tight, but neither Dick nor Irene said a word. The boy was 'stiff with uncertainty for a long moment. He did not quite dare to move. He stood as if he had grown roots. Kathy grew impatient. Davy looked down at her, up at Dick, then over at Irene. Dick nodded encouragement, and Irene managed a weak little smile. Davy smiled in return, and very cautiously began to walk toward her. Dick followed him. It seemed to take Davy a long time to cross the room. At last he stood before Irene, his elfin face animated with pleasure. He was reluctant to give the baby up, but Kathy was growing loud. In her protest over the delay of her dinner. Almost reverently, Davy laid the infant tenderly in Irene's outstretched arms. He remained standing there, lost. His empty little arms were still cupped, as if Kathy Ella were still cradled there. Without warning, he spoke — "Baby." The sharp intake of Dick's breath was the only sound in the room. Irene gasped. Her voice was breathy when she finally managed to speak. "Oh, Davy!" Her words broke the shocked silence. Dick went down cn one knee beside them. "What did you say, fella?" His voice was husky with emotion. Davy's eyes were sparkling. He was enjoying their reaction im- -mensely. That enveloping grin took possession of his face as he tried the word again, "Baby." ICK gathered the three of them into his arms. 'There was a film in his eyes. He didn't trust himself to speak or to rise. Irene let tears of relief and joy run unashamed down her cheeks. The months of anxiety and frustration fell away into nothingness. All of it... Every bit of it had been worth the wonder of this one moment. KEEP MY OWN Davy delightedly kept repeating the magic word that had opened his lonely, wordless world. "Baby. Baby. Baby." Other words would follow. Wonderful, healing words. 'The awful seal of silence had been broken. The house resounded with unity and love. Davy's laughter, intermingled with Kathy EF lla's infant noises, were absorbed into the walls and drunk up by the rafters in every room as those family noises of the past had also been assimilated. For the first time Irene felt truly at home in the house. She felt that now she belonged there, just as the others belonged. She shivered, not with cold as she had shivered on that day in early spring, but with oneness, pleasure, belonging. I belong, she said over and over to herself. I really belong. The realization was pure enchantment. Dick helped her to bed. He leaned down and kissed her gently before he left the room. The whispering autumn leaves on the trees outside merged their voices with that of the house, and Irene fell asleep hearing all of them murmuring a sonorous song of "Welcome home, Irene. Welcome home." A NEW SERIAL "KISS OF THE WIND" TO BEGIN IN THE JULY MAGAZINE _ A new serial "Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd, will begin in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story takes place on a pineapple plantation in Hawaii, and relates the problems and the aspirations of a loving and closely knit family. Mrs. Lloyd, who is already well known to readers of the Magazine, is the author of "Essentials of the Short Story," on page 424 of this issuc of the Magazine. 431 432 A Patio Dinner for Summertime by Linnie F. Robinson, eMWlenu (Serves twelve) Roast leg of lamb, surrounded by broiled peaches, with mint jelly, and browned potatoes (There will be some of the meat left over, which can be sliced or cubed and used for other dinners) Crenshaw summer salad (A large cantaloupe or casaba may be substituted for the Crenshaw melon) Relishes, as desired Hot rolls or baking powder biscuits (See "Baking Day at Home," The Relief Society Magazine, September 1962, page 672.) Spinach, with onions and toast Fudge cake, with ice-cream balls and chocolate sauce ROAST LEG OF One 6 - 8 Ib. Leg of lamb boned and stuffed with ground veal. Season with salt and pepper, freshly ground. Place on rotisserie or in oven at 300° and bake 4 hrs. Baste with currant jelly or in its own juices. Serve while hot, a must for lamb. LAME pPPmearararr MATA TALS Select 3 Ibs. Of potatoes 2 to 3 inches in diameter. Wash and cook in salted water until done, peel, and set aside until meat is ready, then fry in your favorite fat until brown. Keep shaking the pan so the potatoes will brown evenly and will not stick. WITH MINT JELLY (fresh, canned, or frozen peaches) BROILED PEACHE: Twelve or more peach halves, drained and each one filled with a teaspoon of green mint jelly. Place peaches on broiler pan and set in cool place until meat is done. Then broil for a minute to get the peaches hot and place alternately with the browned potatoes around the lamb. Serve at once. CRENSHAW SUMMER SALAD 2 c. Watermelon balls 2 c. Banana chunks 1 large Crenshaw melon, chilled 1 large pkg. Cream cheese (dipped in pine- 2 c. Large ripe apple juice to strawberries keep from dis- 1 C. Pineapple coloration ) chunks 1 ¢C. Seedless grapes 1 pkg. Slightly sweetened coconut Peel the melon down to where it ls good to eat, and slice off the top and the bottom so it will stand upright, remove ~ the seeds and membrane, and wipe the sides dry with a clean absorbent towel. Prepare cream cheese by softening with milk or cream and spread over the outside of the melon. If you spread as soon as the melon is wiped, the cheese goes on easily. Fill melon with fruits from the top and place on tray with a carving set. Cut some slices but leave melon standing, 434 so guests may have some of the melon as well as the fruit. The melon itself may be prepared ahead of serving time and put in the refrigerator. Do not put in fruit until ready to serve. Sprinkle the outside of the melon with coconut. Garnish with strawberries and sliced bananas. SPINACH WITH ONIONS AND TOAST 2 pkgs. Fresh (or frozen) spinach 1 bunch green onions, minced fine 3 slices of bread buttered on both sides and toasted Bring spinach to a boil in %4 c. Water, or wilt, turning and slicing with a sharp knife until properly wilted. Remove from heat and add the minced onions, and in a few minutes add the toast broken into pieces, about 1% inch squares. Serve as soon as possible. This dish will keep, if it is kept warm only until the other foods are ready for serving. FUDGE CAKE WITH ICE-CREAM BALLS AND CHOCOLATE SAUCE 12 Ice-cream balls 1 fudge cake made from baked in angel strawberry ice food tin, and cream iced 1 c. Chocolate sauce Make ice-cream balls ahead of time, and put on wax paper on tray to freeze hard. Bake your favorite fudge cake in an angel food tin, cool, and ice, and at serving time place on a tall cake dish and heap ice-cream balls on top. Pour on sauce. Serve at once. CHOCOLATE SAUCE 1 tbsp. Butter % c. Canned milk powdered sugar to thicken, as needed 1 square chocolate melted over hot water 6 large marshmallows cut fine Melt chocolate over hot water and add milk. Stir in marshmallows. Remove from heat and add butter and powdered sugar as needed to thicken to the desired consistency. Cool and pour over icecream balls on top of cake. "We Narrows approaching Raft Sund _g @ BERGEN DSTERRISOR NORRE SUNDB i AALBORG DENMARK ae COPENHAGEN | Sj NORWAY a Road by the Sea Claire Noall N the summer of 1962, I found the scenic beauty of our coastal cruise be- " tween the mainland of Norway and its chain of islands enriched by the thought that our early missionaries must once have sailed these waters. 'They perhaps trekked a path similar to the one I was looking at from the deck of our excursion ship — an unpaved road paralleling the sea along the base of verdant, snow-patched mountains. The larger islands and the mainland rose precipitously. All coasts were indented, some tremendously so by the glacial-carved fjords. In places there was little evidence of population. But, as I gazed at the road, in my heart's pride I pictured two young men — Book of Mormon and satchel in hand — following this lonely path. I thought of the elders traveling both by sea and by land to spread the gospel message in this country. 435 Photo by author Ancient Village Near Head of Sognefjord Frequent farmsteads enlivened the narrow strip between ocean and mountain slope wherever the rocks had decayed sufficiently to make the ground arable. Yet, in those northern waters, there were still great stretches of unoccupied coastline. Occasionally, like a chain of beads, the villages strung along the coast, anywhere from two to a dozen farmsteads being grouped as a single settlement. In July, in suddenly radiant life like lovely — jewels, fields of brilliant yellow flowers embroidered the narrow shoreline. In places villages gave way to cities, some being built on clustering islands, making a waterway of streets. Handsome bridges crossed some of these waterways. Parents, children, and infants in prams queued up at the gangplank at almost all the stations where the coastal steamer docked. In summer, people travel two hundred miles for an hour's visit in another city; young folk embark on honeymoons, friends crowd the quay to greet passing relatives. 'The ships carry local passengers by the hundreds, cargo by the bale, and a few tourists on each journey. Always, it seemed, wherever our ship docked, the immediate waterfront would give way to steeply tiered homes, then to enormously high mountains, barren except for the green of the moss and the low shrubs which crowded the granite and the snow. In this landscape it might be reasonable to suppose that the heart of man would bear a somber streak; but there is evident a tender and a happy vein. Only a well-balanced people could face life in such a climate and on such a land. Surviving from a rich sea and a poor, meager soil, strong in their ancient traditions, people of such a race do not easily give up their established religion. 436 Photo by author Village Church, Ulvig ——— " Photo by author LL this I knew, and yet I was aware of the Norwegian contribution of sturdy and faithful saints who gathered to the Rocky Mountains of America in the early days of the Church. I was aware also of those present saints in Norway who have built up and maintain thriving branches in this rugged land. For many years (1851-1905), Norway formed a part of the Scandinavian Mission. Then the Danish-Norwegian Mission was organized. In 1920 the Norwegian Mission was created. So the gospel net was spread in this magnificent northern land. Elder Erastus Snow, a member of the Council of the Twelve, introduced the gospel into the Scandinavian countries in 1850. One of the first converts was Hans F'. Petersen of Aalborg in Northern Denmark. In September 1851, Elder Petersen was requested bv Elder Snow to journey to Norway and begin missionary work in the land of the steep mountains and the great fjords. Elder Petersen took passage on a sailing vessel bound from Denmark to @stcrissgr, a city on the Oslo Fjord in Norway. However, Elder Petersen had neglected to obtain a passport, and so he returned to Denmark. The captain of the ship which carried Elder Petersen on this voyage to and from Norway was Svend Larsen, a devout Norwegian who became interested in the gospel through the efforts of Elder Petersen. He was baptized on September 23, 1851, and became "the first fruit of the gospel in Norway." In October of 1851, Elder Petersen returned to Norway and in the following November two converts were baptized. From this small beginning, the members of the Church increased, and by July 16, 1852, the first branch in Norway was organized in the city of Osterissgr, with John Olsen as presiding elder. 'This branch was composed of eightccn members. In the month of August, a small vessel "The Lion of Zion" was purchased, and this good ship made many journeys along the coast of 437 aR MT H ardangerfjord Norway, in and out of the precipitous fjords, and among the rock-bound islands. Back and forth between Denmark and Norway, the small ship sailed and many faithful Scandinavians heard "the gospel's joyful sound." Soon branches were organized in Frederikstad and Brevig, and Elder John A. Ahmansen became President of the Norwegian area of the Scandinavian Mission. So the gospel was taken to Norway, and the saints rejoiced and shared the glad tidings with their neighbors. N 1870 a group of missionaries arrived in Trondheim, the first capital of Norway, a magnificent city located on a deeply sculptured fjord which cuts more than half way through Norway at this point of the narrowing of the land. At this time, on the island of Frgya, the uttermost island beyond Trondheim towards the Atlantic, lived an "eager, highly intelligent fishermaiden,' Anna Karine Gaarden, and her lovely sister Petroline — two Norwegian girls destined to find a later home in a western land "in the tops of the mountains." As we traveled northward along this rugged and uplifted shore — northward beyond Trondheim, I thought of the story of the girlhood of Anna, how she watched the eider duck, followed by her fledglings, sailing the swells of the waves around the island of Frgya, and I, too, watched for the pattern of wings. 'The waterways were treacherous, with numerous submarine reefs. Few pilots, in Anna's time, could safely bring a ship to port. Anna and Petroline were the daughters of a sea captain, and their father had told them something of the world beyond the Norwegian coast. In 1870 Anna married a young schoolteacher, John Anders Widtsoe, from the Norwegian mainland, and in 1874 the young couple established a fine home in Namsos, a coastal city some eighty miles north of 'Trondheim. Traveling past these villages and cities so dear to the hearts of the 438 Photo by author Native Fruits, India and nutmeg. Place in slow oven for an hour. This is made with the canned fruit. This fruit bake is delicious with any roast, if one tablespoon of curry powder is used in place of the cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg. Finger Cookies The dessert is a favorite of Koreans. The finger cookies are made from the following recipe, but any favorite plain cookie will do. 1 c. Shortening 2 c. Granulated sugar 3 @§ES 3% to 4 c. Flour tsp. Salt tsp. Baking powder tsp. Almond extract ~ Ne Cream the shortening and sugar together; add eggs and flavoring and beat until fluffy. Sift flour, measure, and add salt and baking powder. Add to the wet ingredients. Stir until a medium soft dough is formed. Chill for several hours. Roll very thin and cut into "finger cookies," approximately % of an inch wide and 3 inches long. Place 1 inch apart on greased cookie sheet and bake at 350° for 8 to 10 minutes or until a light golden brown. For serving, a bowl of hot honey, a bowl of finely chopped pinenuts, and a platc of the cookies is provided for each group of diners. All dip their cookies into the samc dish of honey, then into the pinenuts, before each bite. For the main dish — a mound of rice — large or small according to one's appetite, is placed on the plate. Over this is spooned the hot curried chicken. On top are heaped the boys, a generous spoonful of each. On the buffet, place the chafing dish of rice first, then the curried chicken (also in something to keep it hot), then the row of boys. Or the boys may be placed in a circle around the two main dishes. It is comparatively easy to pick up Indian decorations — many small items of Indian brass are for sale in shops everywhere. Pictures cut from advertisements in Travel magazines, toy elephants or camels, or a miniature Taj Mahal made of cardboard boxes and empty spools and covered with a sugar icing are all suitable. 443 Photo by author Arrangement by Florence C. Williams Color Transparency by Hal Rumel WEDDING RING TREE This lovely arrangement was made by anchoring a natural branch on a round wooden foundation, then spray painting the branch and the foundation. Rings (which can be purchased at dime stores) are attached to the tree with narrow pink ribbon. The "flower" in the pot at the left is made. From a styrofoam ball decorated with small artificial blossoms (hyacinth florets, forget-me-nots, pinks, or phlox could be used). The tree makes an attractive centerpiece for the bride's table at a reception, for a wedding dinner, or as a decorative feature for the home or hall where the reception is held. For a bridal shower or an engagement announcement party, "diamond" rings could be substituted for the wedding rings. Arrangement by Florence C. Williams Color Transparency by Hal Rumel TOWER OF DAFFODILS » In this tiered arrangement, lemon leaves are used with the daffodils. 'Tiered containers can be made with bowls, flower pots, vases, or other containers in graduated sizes. The containers can be sealed with wax or modeling clay. "Oasis'" (a green brick material, which, when soaked in water, becomes flexible) is used for holding the flower stems in place. This arrangement is particularly effective for the centerpiece of a table for springtime entertainment, or it can be placed on a porch or patio, or used to illuminate or beautify a hallway, or the corner of a living room. Other flowers may be used effectively in similar tiered arrangements — roses, geraniums, dahlias, zinnias, carnations, chrysanthemums, or begonias. __ The containers may be spray painted in a color or tint which would be harmonious with the colors of the flowers used in the design. 445 a From bottom to top: Persian Delight and Lillian Jarrett; Highlighter and Falstaff; Beth and Coral Rose Geneva; Pink Fire and Honey. Let's Grow African Violets Irene Dunlap 446 Lilac Dale and Flama Grande AINTPAULIAS or African violets are the most popular house plants S in America today. It is hard to realize that today's lovely plants with single or double blossoms of every hue in the rainbow (except yellow), and foliage that may be plain, quilted, curly, wavy, or fluted, in color ranging from light green to nearly black, had their origin in a modest plant with single purple blossoms growing in cracks of limestone rocks in East Africa. The orginal violet was discovered in Tanga in 1892 by a German named A. E. Walter R. Von Saint Paul-Illaire. He sent some plants to his father, who turned them over to a gardener friend, Herman Wendland. It was he who introduced violet seeds to the United States through the Armacost and Royston Nursery of Los Angeles. Since then, approximately fifteen thousand varieties of African violets have been developed through hybridization. Have you ever heard anyone say, "I think African violets are beautiful," and then add hastily, "but I can't grow them'? Perhaps she has tried to grow one or two plants without success, and then regretfully concluded that violets were not for her. Now, African violets do demand certain requirements. But, armed with the knowledge of what these requirements are, anyone can grow them and can change that forlorn comment above to a happy, "Do come in and see my lovely plants." Let us discuss African violets in terms of light, temperature, humidity, soil, watering, feeding, propagation, ventilation, and varieties. af tf = % - oo ee ee ff. Ak fe #.. 'Fury — A Ruffled Beauty LIGHT Give them a maximum of light. Light, not sun. Direct summer sun will scorch and burn the foliage. Some winter sun is beneficial, as it promotes bud formation. But, if you are growing violets on stands beside south or west windows, hang light curtains which can be drawn, allowing the sun to filter through. The plants will get plenty of light. On sunless days, or every day if your plants are in a north or east window, give them the benefit of natural light without drawing curtains. If you would like to use fluorescent lights, as so many people are doing now, you will find that your violets will be happy in the basement or in dark corners of your main-floor rooms. You may use cool or warm, white or daylight tubes, or the new Gro-Lux tubes which shed a pink glow and make the blossoms sparkle with deeper color. Gro-Lux tubes also speed the growth of baby plants and promote earlier bud formation. Any type of fluorescent lights deepens the color of the foliage and makes it shine. Another benefit is that you can grow more symmetrical plants. If you are using natural light, you must turn your plants as often as once a week in order to keep them growing evenly. Hang your fluorescent fixture from twelve to fifteen inches above the table on which the mature plants sit. Smaller plants may be elevated on supports in order to be nearer the light. Lights should burn no longer than fourteen hours if you are using Gro-Lux tubes. They may burn fifteen or sixteen hours with other tubes. TEMPERATURE For good growing, the daytime temperature should be between sixty and seventyfive degrees. Night temperatures may be ten degrees lower. If the plants get too cold, they will just sit, without growing or blooming. 448 LET'S GROW AFRICAN VIOLETS HUMIDITY Most modern homes are too dry for violets. Do everything possible to increase the humidity. Put blocks of styrofoam or bottle tops of any kind in the individual containers in which the plants sit. Then pour water in the container up to but not over the styrofoam or bottle top. Never let the pot sit in the water. Hot water is best, as your plants will love the steam. Evaporation of the water creates humidity. Vases or jars of water placed among the plants will increase humidity with evaporation. Do keep some plants in your kitchen and give them the benefit of steam from your cooking and the hot water tap. SOIL Saintpaulias, in their natural state, grow in leaf mold. It follows, then, that they must have a loose, porous soil. Most important, too, the soil must be sterilized, just in case nematoides or other pests are lurking in some of the ingredients. Porous, sterilized soil is available at many stores. If you want to mix your own, it is a matter of collecting leaf mold, peat moss, manure, sand, pearlite, fertilizers and sterilizing, either by baking, steaming, or by the use of a chemical. A good many people do not care to bother with mixing soil, where it is available commercially. Violets will benefit from being repotted in fresh soil periodically. One national expert declares that she repots each plant every three to six. Months. 'This seems a little often. But everyone agrees they should be repotted at least once a year. WATERING Frequency and method of watering are most important. It is better to water from the top, rather than the bottom, because top watering pushes down through the soil the salts which accumulate on the rim of the pot and cause the outside leaves resting on the rim to become soft. It also relieves you of the necessity, when watering, of rechecking each plant to see that the flower pot is not standing in water. Water only when the top soil feels dry to the touch. Wick watering is a convenient method, but requires special equipment. The size of the pot and the material from which it is made govern the frequency of watering. Small pots dry out faster than large ones, and clay pots dry out faster than glazed or plastic ones. Do not let your plants get excessively dry, but do not overwater, as this will rot the roots. FEEDING In order to bloom well, violets must be fed regularly. There are a large number of African violet fertilizers on the market. Use according to directions on the can. The heavy-leaved violets, known as Supremes, require more food than the other kinds. Feed them once a week during the heavy blooming period. Feed the other kinds every two weeks. Your violets will bloom better if left in small pots. One mistake many people make is to buy a blooming plant in a small pot, take it home, and immediately transplant it into a larger one. The plants will usually tell you when they want a larger pot by sending roots through the opening in the bottom of the container. One bit of grooming which will beautify your plants and make them grow better is to wash the foliage. Your plants get dusty, just as your furniture does, and the dust clogs the plant pores. Simply tilt the plant sidewise under the tap and run a gentle stream of lukewarm water over the leaves, being careful to see that the soil does not fall out. When you have turned the plant completely around and washed each of the larger outside leaves, and as many of the second row as you can without JUNE 1963 depositing any water in the center of the plant, tap the wet leaves gently so that no excess of water remains on them. 'Then set the plant in a spot out of bright light until it is completely dry. Sun or even bright light on wet leaves will spot them. It is well to wash the plants at night. In the morning they will be completely dry and can be set in their regular place in the light. PROPAGATION African violets are easily propagated from leaves. Choose a sturdy leaf, but not from the older leaves on the outside row nor the newest ones from the center. Dip the end of the leaf in a rooting hormone, then insert in damp vermiculite. Place the pot containing vermiculite and the leaf in a small plastic bag, cut two small holes on opposite sides of the bag for ventilation, and close the top with a piece of twist tape, such as is used on bread packages. Set in a fairly light place. All you have to do is examine it every three or four weeks to see if it needs watering. The humidity in the bag will produce plantlets much faster than by any other method. When the plantlets are about two inches high, remove from the bag and allow them to grow stronger before dividing. When they are ready to divide, withhold water for a day or two. They will pull apart more easily if they are not wet. Pull the plantlets apart carefully so that each one retains its share of roots. The mother leaf, if still crisp, may be put down for a second crop of plantlets. VENTILATION There should be good circulation of air about your plants, but avoid drafts and sharp changes. If your plants are located in a spot where there is no new air available from a door or window, use a fan for a short time to keep the air circulating. Do not turn the fan directly on the plants. Turn it so the breeze created by it blows above the plants. VARIETIES There are so many, many varieties of African violets that it is difficult for anyone to make a choice as to which ones she wants in her collection. There is one point on which we are all agreed, however. We want the ones which will give us the most blooms over the longest period of time. Hybridizers recognize this point and are constantly working on bloom production, plus the added feature of coming into bloom early. It is a noticeable feature of some of the newest varieties that they begin to bloom much earlier than most of the older varieties did. As to classes, there are both single and double blossom varieties in the Standard, Supreme, and Miniature types. Supremes have heavy leaves, larger blossoms, but not so many, require heavier feeding, and, as a rule, grow more slowly than Standards. Duponts and Amazons have the same characteristics as Supremes. Miniatures are sometimes small enough for the entire plant to fit into a teacup. By all means, keep your plants to a single crown. Some varieties have a tendency to sucker. That is, they send out tiny new plants off the central stalk between the leaves of the original crown, destroying the symmetry of the plant and making what is known as a multiple-crown plant. When small, suckers can easily be taken off with tweezers or the rubber end of a pencil. Suckers do not have roots, but can be rooted the same as a leaf to become a new plant. There is a saying in the violet world that the most important requisite in growing violets is TLC — tender, loving care. Happy violet growing to you! 450 laeli Pe'a, Artist of Samoan Handicrafts AELI PE'A was born in Iva, Savaii, Western Samoa, and became a member of the Church at the age of ten. She married Tuitufu Pe'a, a devoted member of the Church, and their travels took them to many lovely islands and villages — Tuasivi, Sauniatu, Aleipata, Samata Itai, Safotu, Vaiola. Laeli served as president of Relicf Society in eight different branches. She tenderly nursed the sick, taught the women household arts and crafts, and wherever she went she carried the message and the spirit of the gospel. In the picture Sister Pe'a is wearing in her hair a single yellow hibiscus with a purple center. The necklaces in her hands were made from small gray seashells found among the coral on the reefs. The siapo work hanging in the background, and the picce under Sister Pe'a's left hand represent the native tapa cloth made from mulberry bark after it has been soaked in sea water, then patterned over a wooden board, and colored with native dye, usually brown and black. Siapo cloth is used for curtains, table covers, wall hangings, and sometimes for clothing. The quilt at the left is made of cotton squares and lined with muslin (not quilted). Sistcr Pe'a has six living children, sixty-four grandchildren, and fourteen greatgrandchildren. She still serves as work meeting leader in her branch Relief Society. 451 ] 962 marked the 120th year that Relief Society, as the organization established by the Prophet Joseph Smith, according to the natures of women, continued to give charitable and benevolent service, to uplift and strengthen its members and to aid in promoting the work of the Church. In this present period of great growth and expansion in the Church the Society moved steadily forward in the work assigned to it as the women's auxiliary of the Church. Almost a quarter of a million women (248,166) had membership in Relief Society. This represented an increase of 16,991 since 1961. Included in this great world-wide sisterhood are women in remote as well as large populous areas of the Church; women of various nationalities and races; unmarried girls on college campuses and young as well as older married women; mothers, grandmothers and greatgrandmothers. This membership was distributed throughout the stakes and missions in the fifty states of the United States and in fifty-one foreign countries. Devoted and capable women characterize the 164,035 members who served in leadership capacities in the Society, an increase of 11,054. These leaders carried forward the recommended program of the Society in 430 stake and mission organizations and 5,288 ward and branch organizations, which was an increase of 25 stake and mission organizations and 366 ward and branch organizations over 1961. A total of 40,835 women received spiritual growth, cultural development, and joy through their participation in 2,724 Singing Mothers Choruses as they provided music for special Relief Society functions, for stake or mission conferences, for funerals and for other occasions. The official publication of the Society, THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, carried spiritual messages, articles of general interest to women, homemaking suggestions, stories and poetry of high literary quality, and uniform lessons of the Society to its 201,570 subscribers, an increase of 18,334 subscribers. During the past year 107,252 visiting teachers in pairs made a total of 4,133,868 monthly visits to families, carrying a spiritual message into the homes and with a sensitiveness to the needs of the poor and suffering. This represented an increase of 7,193 visiting teachers and 190,272 visits. Further sympathetic, love-inspired service was given under the direction of the Society through a total of 30,732 eight-hour days care of the sick (an increase of 52] days); 365,822 visits to the sick and homebound (an increase of 8,488 visits); 498,290 hours of other compassionate services such as caring for the children of an ill mother or taking an elderly sister to the doctor (an increase of 97,150); the dressing of 838 bodies for burial (an increase of 49) and the giving of assistance at the time of funerals or in the homes of bereaved families on 9,251 occasions (an increase of 405}. As an aid in the Church Welfare Program, as carried forward in the stakes of the Church, Relief Society presidents made 97,515 visits to families in need under the direction of bishops (an increase of 3,890); and 894,957 hours of service were contributed by females on welfare projects (an increase of 105,150 hours). Societies in the stakes also contributed a total of $293558.27 to ward and stake building, welfare and other Church programs (an increase of $66,164.29). Sizeable contributions were also made by Societies in missions. The lives of the members of the Society were further enriched and their knowledge and testimonies of the Gospel increased through their attendance at the 217,150 meetings held by the respective organizations, at which stimulating courses of study were conducted on theology, homemaking, literary, and social science subjects. Through homemaking activities, a significant part of the educational program of the Society, the sisters completed a total of 886,856 articles (an increase of 125,842). Of this number 275,265 (an increase of 50,104) were non-sewed handicraft articles and 611,591 (an increase of 75,738) were sewed articles including 23,580 quilts, 61,097 articles of children's clothing, 83,110 women's clothing, 5,084 men's clothing, 236,487 items of household furnishings and 202,233 miscellaneous articles. Also as a part of the work meeting or homemaking program, the sisters participated in cooking and other homemaking demonstrations and training programs as well as cultural activities. 1962 has been another year of growth, accomplishment and service in Relief Society! General Secretary-Treasurer 1962 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION Of Relief Society Organizations and Members in the United States IN STAKES NITED STATES Organizations Members IN MISSIONS > se ae IN STAKES | IN MISSIONS aad zations Members OrganiMembers OrganiMembers Organizations ] Members Organizations Totals Members Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho \inois Indiana wa Kansas Kentucky ouisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri (40) 10 16 10 8 8 315 140 201 157 273 132 136 440 306 742 658 176 409 119 551 90 289 42 138 25 182 470 291 zations 2 575 18 373 178 | 10,211 1] 177 490 | 33,239 67 | 3,359 Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Total United States | zations 3148 T 1,458 319 3,737 427 1,504 700 7199 1,101 618 4,134 288 631 2,199 93,436 854 5115 3,367 26 6 629 7] 19 116 209 344 292 147 70 595 611 39 182 243 315 623 G7 417 252 408 269 4 T 2,087 390 3,756 116 427 1,713 1/044 1,091 147 1171 618 4.729 899 39 813 243 515 2,822 93 436 97 1,271 5,367 408 482 3412 Of Relief Society Organizations and Members in Other Countries IN STAKES IN MISSIONS Totals IN STAKES IN MISSIONS Totals OTHER COUNTRIES Organizations Members Organizations §Members Organiaes Members Organizations Organizations Members Organizations Member: Argentina Azores Australia Austria Belgium Brazil (196) Canada Chile Cook Island Costa Rica Denmark El Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Greece Guam Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong re lretand Italy 3] 92 >| 23 T 974 4,445 i 1,097 1,070 949 8 698 40 949 8 70 | 1,672 14 378 14 245 58 | 1,310 5,894 20 401 6 53 2 33 24 555 7 169 2,578 5 18 19 458 13 1 24 381 5,104 2 7 22 24 512 5 171 8 92 i; 102 16 Japan Korea Libya Mexico Morocco Netherlands _ New Zealand Nicaragua Norway Okinawa Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands Paraguay Peru Puerto Rico Samoa Scotland - Spain Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Tonga Union of South Africa Uruguay Wales 33 4 | 107 2 22 4] 2 20 3 33 3,772 214,485 L516 33,681 624 = =12,735 1229 8 =23,695 201,750 9,986 Total Total United States Other Countries 3,148 287 3435 211,736 1,853 36,430 5,288 248,166 GRAND TOTAL - | -. +--+ => "? == eS ~ _ toes aos ae tathrlteopp i | en a -~--—. - An Y p- - b- 6-4 '. —_——_- - -_—— — opt — an a3. A Fn op =: —s & SUNRnSSsEEe rercerrrryT a * +4 ~~ >= ~—r + -—-———— oo ose + ————— os. Q oT Lita 7 oS seer |) +-)-+3 § hah 4-. « hina. Os a ce 4-4 | ' | = |; aume attr ] "> La 1" -; bedded lo: A= Pett HF be bh LOMB t=]: cet} -—-*<-—- + ——— — PEER RE CEE EE Ee eee em: =} 3-1 + badid ed i=?: 4-1 toch ap the s—i-b =. SEES EERE EEE EEE SRSUULERIE RASS ERC CueEeeERs aeR: er ~ - a - veun — - 1 | AleviWesvaenencrscesca: Ht 4. + am | hal aa 4 ae — ae -_.+-- ++ > « ¢ ¢ ah Ad So *-? Tt + 1 | 4, f >-> 2 le >—-}> +; } a - -; = |. ¢ <4 > - - 2+ oye + —+ -- LUN MEMBERSHIP Membership (Total) In Stakes In Missions 248,166 211,736 36,430 / 231,175 35,069 196,106 Increase or 'Decrease 16,9914 15,630-+ 1361-4 L. D. S. FAMILIES L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions — ORGANIZATIONS Stake and Mission Organizations In Stakes In Missions Ward and Branch Organizations ( In Stakes In Missions SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses (Total) In Stakes In Missions (Total) Total) Approximate Number of Singers (Total) In Stakes In Missions 430 361 69 5,288 3,435 LEADERSHIP Relief S Stak Distr rd and Branch Officers Wa ociety Members Who Served as Leaders in the Society e Officers ict and Mission Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers MA Relief 1962 491,604 412,936 78,668 4,097 1,064 19,892 10,586 21,1 T07,252 TPANALIVG WLOEWIDELNDSSFiIrFr 1961 460,810 385,532 75,278 3,899 1,009 18,464 9,930 19,620 100,059 Increase or Decrease 30,7944 27,4044 3,390-+4 198+ 5+ 1,428-4- 656-+ 1524-4 7,193-+- GAZINE Society Magazine Subscriptions 201,570 183,236 18,334 VISITING TEACHING COMPASSIONATE SERVICES 962 1961 1962 1961 1962 1961 1962 1961 1962 1961 110,000 = 500,000, 4,200,000 190.006 450,000 90,000 4.100 000 | ~ 400,000 350,000 80,000 70,000 60,000 _ 50,000 4,000,000 _ - a 250,000 200,000 40,000 150,000 30,000 100,000 50,000 0 NUMBER OF VISITING TEACHER DAYS CARE OF VISITS TO THE SICK HOURS OF OTHER VISITING TEACHERS VISITS THE SICK & HOMEBOUND 'COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Nee ee.__ Co AR IRR ooNRR eaigecarmhpioeaarg ae Sea OS Seana MEETINGS Total Meetings Held 217,150 212,996 4154+ Relief Society General Conference l 1 Stake Relief Society Conventions 22! 205 16+ Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) | 7,141 6,593 548+ Stake and Mission Board Meetings 3,987 3,749 238+ Stake and Mission Leadership Meetings 3,154 2,844 310+ Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) 209,787 206,197 3,590-+- Regular Meetings for Members 163,889 160,821 3,068-++ Visiting Teacher Meetings 31,605 31,013 592+ Special Meetings 14,293 14,363 7O0— VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS To Wards and Branches (Total) By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members (Total) In Stakes In Missions Theology Work Literature Social Science Visiting Teacher Meetings Relief Society Leadership Meetings CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 1962.0 -ceeeeeeeeeteeeteee ee$1,970,056.57 RECEIPES oo eesecneccessseeneeeceecsseetsneseseesensceesseecsatsneesecerseneneessnnnacesaceneecceses 3,781 496.01 a 5,751,552.58 DisburseMents -.-ss-cecceocecceccesssceneecececcececeeeeeeeesescerseteeeseseeceensecaeeeneces 3,600,142.10 Cash Balance on Hand December 31, 1962 -.---2---2:: escseeeeeeecees 2,151,410.48 Assets — December 31, 1962 Net Cash on Hand December 31 wu ccssccececceeeereccecenesceeseeeeeeceesceeee® Wheat Trust Fund Deposit at PBO --.2sesceseesseeeeseeeeeeseeeeeeeens Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) Real Estate and Buildings ---cecessceccecesceceeseeseeeeececeeeeseeeseereseseese® Total ASSCtS:: ccccsccecessceecenscccensssceceennesceescecesceseeennes Number 93,224 78,193 15,031 99,439 95,097 86,809 91,075 Bee 24,138 1961 Per Cent 38.4 36.7 470 41.3 39.0 36.2 37.1 52.5 44.3 $2,151,410.48 422 812.22 87,398.09 104,211.17 2,765,931.96 oor THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submiticd for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relicf Society presidents. Sec regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Bakersfield Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention February 2, 1963 Skit participants from the Tehachapi Branch Relief Society, left to right: Lola Parker, Secretary; Juanita Eyhagaray, Second Counselor; Alice Kingsbury, President; Ruby Dorsey, Magazine representative. Beryl Lewis, President, Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sarah Fagleston, stake visiting teacher message leader, was in charge of the program. We presented the dramatization "Toward Ideal Womanhood,' by Caroline Miner. Laura Miner, the literature class leader in Bakersfield Third Ward Relief Society, was the narrator. Skits given by the wards and branches dramatized the various monthly visiting teacher messages. The sisters in the picture, from Tehachapi Branch, presented the skit for the message, "Thou Shalt Not Idle Away Thy Time.' After the program, luncheon was served by the board members. A special guest was our former president Elizabeth W. Winn." Flagstaff Stake (Arizona) Christmas Festival of the Arts, December 1962 Left to right: Mary H. Randall, Work Director Counselor; Ida G. Brinton, work meeting leader; Ruth W. Palmer, President. Sister Palmer reports that this Festival of the Arts was a feature of the stake Relief Society inter-faith social. "We felt that this was an especially appropriate way to help out with our objective for the year, "To help the missionary program progress. We sent out invitations to the women's groups of the various church organizations in our town. The local paper gave us a good picture and two write-ups, and the result was that over 250 women, of whom approximately 150 were nonmembers, attended. "Our stake encompasses an area 235 miles across one way and 150 miles across the other way, but our wards were so gracious as to bring in some of their very best displays, and such wonderful arts and crafts they were. Each of us thrilled with the ingenuity and skills of our sisters. We took pictures of many of the displays, which we put in our history books. One visitor said, 'I had to come alone last year, but this year six women came with me.' Many expressions of appreciation were given on the spiritual part of the program, and it was a 'first' for many of the women to be in our Church building. "The following items are displayed in the picture: a piggy bank made from a plastic bottle; a decorated pine-cone Christmas tree; velvet trimmed Christmas balls; wax candle made from an inexpensive drinking glass; jeweled Christmas tree, with styrofoam base; snowman (in the background) made from garment bags and plastic." 462 ~ efz-e beh Sete hs Ne: es Rate wenn enti abl Senge ee poo tn Rete AES OSA ta NOTES FROM THE FIELD JUNE 1963 Lost River Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Stake Board at Leadership Meeting March 17, 1963 Front row, left to nght: Veta J. Waddoups, theology class leader (who has served Relief Society for thirty-six years in Lost River Stake); Beatrice E. Sorensen, President (twenty-one years of service); Marie Acor, Work Director Counselor; Edna Hansen, Magazine representative; Belva Jones, work meeting leader. Back row, left to right: Josephine Toombs, Secretary-Treasurer (thirty-five years of service in Lost River Stake); Elaine Aikele, literature class leader; Marillyn King, organist; Verla Hope, Second Counselor; Leona Anderson, social science class leader; May Campbell, visiting teacher message leader; Bardella Reed, chorister. Sister Sorensen reports: '""This was our regular leadership day, and we honored the occasion with a special program dealing with the history of our organization, both Church-wise and in our own locality. We had a beautiful cake which was decorated in Relief Society colors, and inscribed "121 Years' and "Charity Never Faileth. We also honored some of the former officers, especially two former presidents who are still with us, Laura E. Christiansen and Elva J. Beal. A beautiful rose was presented to each of the former officers. The cake was later cut, and each sister who attended the meeting was served with birthday cake. "On February 22d we held our visiting teacher convention, with a banner attendance, and a wonderful program, in which we presented the film 'A Record Shall Be Kept.' "The words of the slogan in the picture are 'Every L. D. S. Woman an active member of Relief Society.' This slogan has been adopted by the stake for our membership campaign. Our wards are doing a splendid work in this membership campaign. We have six wards and one branch in our stake at the present time." Chilean Mission Relief Society Conference, January 26, 1963 Seated, left to right: Amerina Alvarez, Counselor; Mable J. Palmer, President; Edith Alvarez, mission secretary. Standing, left to right: officers of the Concepcién District: Hilda Caamaiio, Secretary; Ana de Cueva, Counselor; Eledina Gonzalez, President; Valparaiso District: Otilia R. De Nujiez, Counselor; Leonora Diaz, President; Margarita de Pefia, Secretary; Santiago District; Hortensia Mendez, Counselor; Perla Garcia, Counselor; Isabel Luna, Secretary; Talca District: Sara Retamal. Missing from the picture are Blanca Gondar, Counselor in the mission presidency and also President of the Santiago District Relief Society; Dagman Goldbek, Counselor from Concepcién; and Rebeca de Vélis, Counselor from Valparaiso. Sister Palmer reports: "On January 26th a conference was held in the mission home in Santiago for the district supervisors of the Relief Society organization. Those from out of town spent the night at the mission home. The three districts have been recently officered, so we felt there was great benefit received from the district officers getting to know each other, discussing common problems, and from becoming familiar with the year's program. "The sisters were supplied with the kits of translated conference messages that were prepared by the General Board, and suggestions were made as to how they could be used in the monthly leadership meetings. The program included a talk by President Palmer of the Chilean Mission on the importance of the Relief Society organization in the Church. As President of the Relief Society, I directed the meeting (with all my talks translated into Spanish) and set forth the responsibilities of the various officers. These officers were each given a manual of the lessons with a splendid presentation by Sister Garcia, using charts showing the lessons for the year. A résumé of the progress of Relief Society in the Church, as given by President Spafford at the October Conference, was presented, along with the progress in the mission." Auckland Stake (New Zealand) Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention, October 1962 Gloria M. Dil, President, Auckland Stake Relief Society, reports this lovely occasion of companionship and instruction: "All of the sisters in the picture were honored because of their faithfulness in delivering the visiting teacher messages. All of them have to walk more than four miles to make their visits. Sister Schahill (center, front row) is blind, but walks with her companion every month. Another sister in the Sixth Ward cycles seven miles with her companion. These sisters were honored by being presented with a lovely floral shoulder spray." South Sanpete Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert for the Relief Society Birthday Observance, March 12, 1963 Vonda H. Christensen, President, South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports that this inspiring concert was presented in the Manti South Ward chapel at 3 P. M. The concert was directed by Bly M. Beal, stake Relief Society chorister, with Eunice Garbe, stake organist, as accompanist. Ward choristers who assisted with the training of the combined chorus were: Gladys Dean, June Nelson, Nellie R. Toone, Carol Lowry, Bernice Barnett, Thera Lou Hickman, Rose MclIff, and Virginia Ewell. Ward accompanists were: Norma Olson, Ardith Peterson, Armada Cox, Evelyn Bradley, Joyce Stahle, and Irma Young. Poems introducing the various musical numbers were read by Martha Ryan. 'Three hundred sixty-five women attended the concert. Uruguayan Mission Relief Society Women Await the Arrival of President Hugh B. Brown at the Mission Conference January 27, 1963 Helen Fyans, President, Uruguayan Mission Relief Society, reports: "President Margarita Cristobal Pujado of the Mission Relief Society Board, was in charge of the meeting, which was marked by excellent workshops on important phases of Relief Society work. Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Capital District sang for the meeting of the combined auxiliaries, with President Hugh B. Brown as the special speaker. Sister Edith Pokorny Gonzalez directed the Singing Mothers, and Ruth Cox accompanied the group of approximately thirty women, representing the eleven branches of the district. This special meeting was attended by nearly five hundred auxiliary leaders, in conjunction with training and leadership meetings for the various Church organizations. "Under the direction of the Mission Board, the Relief Society presented a conference featuring departments for work meeting leaders, class leaders, secretaries, and executive officers. An introduction to the 1963 program of Relief Society and a short talk were given by Sister Zina Lou Brown, daughter of President Brown. Nearly two hundred sisters attended this meeting. "The officers of the Mission Relief Society Board, in addition to President Margarita Cristobal Pujado, are: Gladys Otero, First Counselor; Carma M. Correa Galli, Second Counselor. Sister Fyans is assisted in the work of the women's organizations in the mission by Margaret McClellan, advisor to the Mission Board." 466 467 ta" ergs NOTES FROM THE FIELD LESSON DEPARTMENT THEOLOGY ° The Doctrine and Covenants PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1963-64 Elder Roy W. Doxey HE series of revelations for study during the year 1963-64 cover subject matter that is as varied as the circumstances which brought them forth. During the six-month period of September 1831 to March 1832, the members of the Church were somewhat excited over the opening of the land of Zion (Missouri) for development and_ the continued progress of Zion's cause. (Section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants given during this period will be discussed in the 1964-65 year. ) Intermittently, the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were engaged in the revision of the Bible, an activity in which they had participated since the close of 1830. The content of two revelations for study this year resulted from this work. By and large, Sections in the Doctrine and Covenants resulted 468 from the inquiries of elders who were participating in missionary service. Members of the Church who were going to Missouri also had many questions about their position as pioneers of a great work, as well as about their own spiritual condition. The Lord answered them by giving specific counsel on both of these aspects of their lives. The principle of forgiveness emphasized at this time and its application to daily situations in life, is of great importance to those who want to endure to the end. Extremely important to the missionarv, and befitting a true ambassador of the Savior, was the counsel on how he might declare the message of the last days. Instructions were given that are today in use in the mission fields in the Church. Imagine the sense of responsibility that a missionary would receive if he were told that he could make scripture! What kind of a man ought I to be? Could well be his reaction. How does scripture come into being? Who is the official interpreter? Are there other official interpreters of the standard works of the Church? Are questions that might occur to him. These questions are discussed briefly in one of the lessons. A testimony of the truth of the revelations compiled into the Book of Commandments was given to the brethren who participated in a special conference of the Church. The Lord did not restore his Church to fail, is the general subject matter of one of the lessons. The efforts of Satan to bring the Church to a halt have never been nor will they ever be successful. Latter-day Saints may be assured that there is neither weapon nor method that will stop the onward progress of God's work. At this early period in this dispensation, the laxness on the part of parents in Zion (Missouri) to rear their children in the principles of the gospel brought forth a revelation that continues to guide parents. Consideration is also given this year to the environment of the home as the necessary factor in teaching children. Another lesson in this year's series is devoted to one of the least understood books of the Bible. The meaning of some passages from that book has been revealed anew through the Prophet Joseph Smith. These important items furnish the Latter-day Saint with a key for understanding much of the reLESSON DEPARTMENT mainder of the book, as well as the revealing of events from premortality to the end of the earth. In a lesson for this year a brief preview is given of the revelations received during the year 1831. This material will provide an opportunity to see the revelations from a different perspective — the view of great principles that testify to their truth. In this same lesson one is brought to grips with a concept of every citizen of the kingdom of God as a steward. The 1963-64 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Objective: To poimt out that he who repents of his sins and forsakes them is forgiven of the Lord. Arc on the Lord's Objective: 'To suggest ways in which the saints of 1831 were on the "Lord's errand,' and what this term means to us. Objective: 'To learn that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God that was prophesied will stand forever. Objective: To appreciate more fully the manner in which scripture is made, the preparation necessary to know scripture, and the development of the revelations into a volume of scripture. 469 JUNE 1963 Lesson 53 — The Bishopric; Parenthood (D &C 68:7-35). Objective: 'To examine some aspects of the bishop's calling and also the responsibility of parents to their children. Lesson 54 — Stewardships; A Review (D&C 70, 72). Objective: To learn the importance of stewardship, the work of the bishop, and the contributions of a year's revelations. Lesson — Missionary Service (D&C 71, 73, 74 75). Objective: To realize that the restored gospel, through the missionary program, is the key to happiness in this life and eternal joy in the life to come. Lesson 56 — The Book of Revelation (D&C 77). Objective: 'To glean important items of instruction of revealed latter-day knowledge from the revelation given to John the apostle on Patmos. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants PREVIEW OF MESSAGES FOR 1063-64 } Christine H. Robinson HIS year's Visiting 'Teacher Messages "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants" are taken from Sections 64, 66, 67, 68, and 71. All of these Sections were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith during the fall of 1831. 'This was only approximately a year and a half after the restoration of the Church, and many of those who were preparing themselves for positions of leadership needed special instructions and encouragement to build the strong character qualities required by the growing Church. Many of these revelations were 470 given through the Prophet to specific individuals to strengthen and prepare them for the important work they had been called to perform. Consequently, the Lord emphasized the importance of the character qualities of forgiveness, perseverance, patience, and diligence. Emphasis was also placed upon the need of seeking knowledge and having faith that the Lord would answer the prayers of those who sought him diligently and confidently. Amet In the Church, also, there was a particularly great need for strength- ening the younger generation. In the revelations from which these messages were taken, particular stress was put upon the importance of the parents teaching their children to have faith in the Lord and to walk uprightly before him. As with all the truths in The Doctrine and Covenants, all of these instructions apply as much to us today as to the early members of the Church. In fact, among today's pressures and complicated problems, these messages have special application. If we accept and apply them, they will strengthen us and bring us success and happiness. The 1963-64 messages and their objectives are as follows: Message 49 — "Wherefore, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to Forgive One Another' (D & C 64:9). Objective: To show how forgiveness ennobles, enriches, and_ purifies our souls. Message 50 — "Wherefore, If Ye Believe Me, Ye Will Labor While It Is Called Today" (D&C 64:25). Objective: To demonstrate the fact that belief in the Savior motivates prompt, productive action. Message 51 — "Continue in Patience Until Ye Are Perfected" (D&C 67:13). Objective: To teach the value of continuous patience in striving for perfection. LESSON DEPARTMENT Message 52 — "Ask, and Ye Shall Receive; Knock, and It Shall Be Opened Unto You" (D&C 66:9). Objective: To emphasize the fact that to obtain blessings which are good for us, we must ask the Lord for them and seek them diligently. Message 53 — "And They Shall Also Teach Their Children to Pray, and to Walk Uprightly Before the Lord" (D&C 68:28). Objective: To emphasize the basic fact that children reared in_righteousness are among life's choicest blessings. Message 54 — "For Unto Him That Receiveth It Shall Be Given More Abundantly, Even Power' (D&C 71:6). Objective: To show that knowledge leads to more knowledge, and wisdom begets wisdom. Message 55 — "Wherefore, Be Not Weary in Well-Doing"? (D&C 64:33). Objective: LT show that great accomplishments come through doing small things well. Message 56 — "And Ye Shall Bear Record of Me, Even Jesus Christ, That I Am the Son of the Living God" (D&C 68:6). Objective: To emphasize the fact that a testimony of Jesus Christ, as the Son of the Living God, is the most important need in the world today. STATUS HE only kind of status that is worth while is not the envy, but the respect of my fellow men. —Celia Luce - 471 WORK MEETING PREVIEW OF DISCUSSIONS FOR 1963-64 Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler Objective: To point up the role of mother as executive homemaker, and indicate ways in which she may most effectively function. HE promise given to the ancient prophet Abraham, "... In thee shall all families of the earth be blessed," continues to bear fruit for those who love God and keep his commandments in these latter days. Women of Mormondom have a great part to play in bringing this promise to pass. In the early days of the Church, after the Kirtland Temple had been constructed, women came to the temple to complete the interior furnishings, and the Prophet said to them, "Well, Sisters, you are always on hand. 'The sisters are always first and foremost in all good works. Mary was first in the resurrection, and the Sisters now are the first to work on the inside of the temple." 'The woman's work today is the inner work in their homes. This first generation of women of Mormondom were religious empire builders in faith and fact, along with their husbands. 'They suffered expulsion, martyrdoms, and all the privations of pioneer living. Eliza R. Snow, who spent her life in service to her fellow men, was extremely gifted in spiritual discernment, and portrayed in her great poem, "O, My Father," a mother in heaven. This same faith is seen in the 472 second generation of women of Mormondom, as epitomized by the story of Zina Young Card, a daughter of Brigham Young, who with her husband, Charles Ora Card, went to Canada in 1887 to found the town of Cardston. 'Through faith and good works, she helped her husband establish a home place in that distant outpost. 'Their pioneer home was a log cabin built by her husband, and it was she who made it a sanctuary for their family through what she did to the inside as the first generation women worked on the temple at Kirtland. Experiences such as Sister Card's could be given by the dozens for second, third, and fourth generation women of Mormondom, but today's world is a different world. Modern inventions have taken much of the drudgery out of the modern home, but the need for keeping the spiritual qualities that characterized the homes in Kirtland, Nauvoo, the Salt Lake Valley, Cardston, and other pionecr communities must continue to be foremost in Latter: day Saint homes. The 1963-64 series of discussions are centered on planning. 'They are designed to help homemakers see their role in today's world, to bring into their homes love, faith, and good works, and teach these qualities to their children. |) i Planning ' Objective: To encourage family members actively to engage in planning sessions where all matters pertaining to family betterment may be studied and wise solutions developed. Pisvaissient Future Objective: To examine long-time family objectives and goals and plan for a training program consistent with them. SET - Pi mo } 4 Discus ( 1] j vat Objective: To view extravagant and wasteful practices in buying and _ using equipment and formulate guides for improvement. Discussion i2: Pl Resou Objective: To investigate methods of managing money to determine their LITERATURE @ (Textbook: America's Literature, by LESSON DEPARTMENT relative merits, and adopt the method consistent with family goals. Objective: To make the home a beautiful setting conducive to various types of family activity. Objective: To bring to life traditions and values of the past and plan special events to recognize current happenings that promote family solidarity. Objective: To study characteristics of family members and plan clothing wardrobes for all occasions, and to train each one to care for his own clothing. Objective: 'To plan constructively for family gatherings and trips that will encourage creativeness, initiative, and joyful working together of family members. Er ee tetat + America's Literature rd q Va aa om James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York) The Last Hundred Years Elder Briant S. Jacobs » PHLYSICIAN, heal thyself," are Christ's words as recorded in Luke 4:23. This admonition blend ed with that of knowing ourselves forms the objective during our last vear's study of the literature of the United States. A consideration of modern literai 473 JUNE 1963 ture can yield a mixture of pleasure and pain. Reading a more contemporary literature can yield an almost painful intimacy, since its events, scenes, sounds, and speech tones are those which have been as familiar as our shoelaces to us, our parents, and their parents. 'To recognize the familiar as it is seen through another's eyes, to "go home again," always quickens our memories with nostalgic pleasure, and warms our hearts. But in his nearly unbounded freedom and in his eagerness to re-create almost every human _ reality, the modern artist tells more than we would sometimes care to have told. He enables us to experience phases of our lives and times which, though undeniably true, are truths so harsh and unpleasant, so immediate and still so unresolved that we would prefer not to face them; instead, we long for the warm, serene beauties of the idyllic nature — home, and family, which dominated the Romantic literature written on both sides of the Atlantic before the Civil War. Yet no problem has ever been solved without its first having been faced and defined. Since the brutal saber-cut which the Civil War left across the face of the divided States, our literary spokesmen have increasingly abandoned the beautiful ideals and soothing cadences of the Romantics Irving, Emerson, Whittier, and Longfellow. During the past century America's leading literary artists have chosen to write more of everyday's stark and grim realities, depicted in words and images which are simple, ordinary, even flat. 'They have communicated to their contemporaries the increasing- 474 ly complex problems and frustrating conflicts of our modern world as | they have seen them. They have hoped that through their eyes and sensitivities, others, less gifted, may also see and understand, that out of their honest self-searchings, a collective self-knowledge and _ selfimprovement may be achieved. The period between the Civil War and the First World War was one of vast expansion. It was a time of transition, not only in the realm of acres and empires, transcontinental railroads and steampowered tools in factory, mine, commerce, and farm, but in the average American's relationship with his family, community, region, job, school, religion. In greater or less degree, all human _ relationships underwent change. The roots of the present-day existence were nurtured during this period. Since the Civil War differences have been merely differences of reproportioning and degree; the texture, the tone, the dilemmas remain the same. Another approach which proves how nearly the newly revealed national identity of the pre-1920's resembles that of the post-1930's ls to realize how fully at home one immediately finds himself in the significant writers of both periods. The new notes of Realism found in Emily Dickinson and Mark 'T'wain blend with the still-rmging overtones of Romanticism, just as they did in Whitman and Melville, significant transitional figures who wrote slightly earlier. Though Miss Dickinson's most condensed lines are startling, some of her subjects and moral crises are not unlike those of Twain. Howells, the pioneer and center of the Realistic movement in the United States, writes of the average American home in manner and purpose not entirely unlike that of Sinclair Lewis. Carl Sandburg's impassioned love for the folk en masse is a later edition of Walt Whitman, both in form and content, and Robert Frost and Willa Cather are dominated by a restrained, classical style and concept of man in nature worthy of comparison to Henry David Thoreau. Surfaces change, yes, in things and in that inner world which literature creates and sustains. As the United States has changed, so has her literature; were it not so the literature could not be true, and without integrity, nothing of value can either be created or survive. In America, as elsewhere, both in place as through time, her great writerartists bring us to ourselves. The year's lesson titles and objectives follow: Lesson 41 — Mark Twain, a Great American Conscience (1835-1910) Objective: To recognize Mark Twain's moral ideals and conflicts which shaped his literary art and his greatness. Lesson 42 — Huck Finn's Initiation "ato Truth Objective: To understand and experience Huck's progression from innocence toward moral maturity. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 43 — The Quickening Spirit of Emily Dickinson (1830-1886) Objective: To mtroduce ourselves to Emily Dickinson's mind and _ heart, first by entering her home, then her poctry. Lesson 44 — William Dean Howells, Democratic Realist (1837-1920) Objective: To define and exemplify American Realism by studying the life and writings of its prime spokesman. Lesson 45 — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic (1874-1963) Objective: To discover Robert Frost through a sympathetic understanding of his poetry. Lesson 46 — Willa Cather, Lover of Life (1874-1947) Objective: 'To understand and enjoy the sustaming values of Willa Cather's world. Lesson 47 — Sinclair Lewis, Amertican Self-Satirist (1885-1951 ) Objective: To study and _ evaluate middle-class United States of America during the 1920's as represented in the life and writings of Sinclair Lewis. Lesson 48 — Carl Sandburg, American Folk Singer (1878- ) Objective: To understand and enjoy Carl Sandburg's substantial contribution to the American tradition. 475 - Se A FP "A AE SPAN EW | SOCIAL SCIENCE re Ee PE SC SE In BOE REP a A ats a le a gn ee er Divine Law and Church Government SE Se eee AVINIZaTION ANG orvcture Elder Ariel S. Ballif a piste Church is the body of believers, organized according to divine law. It is invested with the necessary rights, powers and authority to carry forward on earth the purposes of the Almighty Father as contained in his plan of salvation for his children on earth" (WwortSOE, Joun A.: Program of the Church, 1937 ed., page 24). In the various dispensations of time, God has instituted his government and offered his services to the human family. Having in mind the welfare of his children and being fully aware of the purpose of creation, he has revealed a system of government for his Church that would make possible peace on earth and good will among men. As has been pointed out in previous lessons, divine law is the wisdom, counsel, and guidance of God, giving direction to man so that he may attain perfection. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God upon the earth. In it there is a fulness of the gospel. This means that all the advice, counsel, and direction (divine law) that God has revealed to man, to assist him in his quest for joy, happiness, and exaltation, have been restored. In the wisdom of the Creator, the 476 government of the Church is designed for the welfare and development of mankind. The Savior pointed out that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So with the government of the Church, it is so organized as to direct all the benefits of government to the growth and perfection of the governed. Divine law is communication from God through his servants, revealing the techniques of effective living, providing the pattern of life for the individual and the group that will produce happiness, progress, and exaltation. The organization of the Church is without flaw. 'The imperfection of man, the human element, is the limiting factor in its operation. The effectiveness of the Latter-day Saint Church government is dependent upon the faithful, dedicated response of the members to lay leadership. 'The Church does not have a professional ministry, but every member serves for the love of service. 'The Priesthood directs, and the membership anticipates the opportunity of serving. Activity is the essence of religious conviction and the recognition of divine authority. The Priesthood gives authorized direction in the performance of Church callings. In this series of lessons, we will become familiar with the structure of Church government. We will review each part and examine its function, at the same time being aware of the interrelationship of each part to the effectiveness of the government of the Church. The government of the Church is the Priesthood in action. The Priesthood is the power and the authority of God given to man for his enlightenment, righteous direction, and peaceful association. We will clarify the distinction between Priesthood line of authority and _ ecclesiastical line of authority, showing the function and importance of each to Church organization. Each lesson explores a part of the structure of Church government, setting forth its function and relating it to a unified whole. Lesson 8 — I Gor ¢ ) Objective: To help the members of Relief Society understand that Church government is the Priesthood or the power of God in action. Lesson 9 — The Organization of the C h J h Cl | Objective: To emphasize the divinity of the organization of the Church and the obligation this places on the membership of the Church. Lesson 1 7 ¢ ml - C f Objective: To acquaint Relief Society members with the importance of quorum organization and the obligation of quorum membership. — ae ie —_— oe se ee ee ee ee es ee ee ee ee ee THREE PART CHORAL MUSIC FOR SINGING MOTHERS a ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTILE—Madsen.20 _ COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen.20 a o GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin 25 l | | 1 l l | | | | I I | | I I | pm GOSPEL GIVES | UNBOUNDED i STRENGTH—Schreiner._.30 |. HEAVENS ARE l I I l l | 1 | l I! I l I | l l l I TELLING—Haydn 200 022 26 ie LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain 00000 25 _—_ LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen.20 we LORD IS MY SHEPHERD—Smart.20 a LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 =. O LOVE THAT WILT NOT LET ME GO—Schubert.20 a, OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.20 eee: OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah \ ] | Please send the music indicated | above. C] On Approval ([] Charge 1 C] Money Enclosed | Ch MTLLAMALIMAILL eg 15 E. Lst South > Qa Q a ® " wv eee eee eee / salt Lake City 11, Utah | Lesson 11 — Quorum Relationship to Wards and Stakes Objective: To clarify the working relationship of Priesthood quorums to the operation of Church government. You re treated so well Lesson 12 — Church Courts (Councils of Justice), an Essential Part of Church Government Objective: To help establish an appreciation for justice and mercy in the divine Church. Lesson 13 — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government Objective: To stress the importance of each and every calling to the successful operation of Church government. Lesson 14 — Summary of Organizathe Zions tion and Structure of the Church Savings Bug, Objective: To emphasize the evidence of divine influence in the strucZions Savings & Loan offers ture and operation of Church governpremiums in service always — e Choice of savings plans e Confidential loan service Portland Rose © Street-floor safe deposit boxes Festival and Parade e Money orders costing less than at most other places Leaves June 12 e Ample free parking Northwest, Canadian Rockies, your savings 0; earn a full Ye Lake Louise & Banff Tour, etc.; 0 current rate Leaves June 22 per year compounded cerironnmy Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour Leaves July 24 ZIONS Black Hills Passion Play Tour SAV! NGS Leaves August 17 and LOAN PEAS SATION ESTHER JAMES TOURS ° 33. First South-Downtown: 460 7th Avenue: a: Salt Lake City 3, Utah: 4901 south state-Murray: Phones: EM3-5229 — EL-9-8051: open Saturdays "til Noon: 478 HIS LIFE'S SAVINGS (Continued from page 417) of himself, as the widow had given her mite. The polished coins lying now in Ann's palm were Mike's life's savings. This would be two dimes and a nickel Ann knew she would never be able to spend. She placed them carefully back in the little envelope and folded the card around it, then placed it in the larger, smudgy envelope. It was a present too precious to share with the others in the room. Ann dropped it in her clothing, Close to her heart. Suddenly she knew she couldn't lie here in the hospital bed any longer. A mother needed to have her children around her, especially on Mother's Day. "Les, let's go get baby Sue and go home." HAWAIIAN TOURS Throughout Summer First one leaving June 15 MEXICAN TOUR Leaving June 1 NORTHWESTERN TOUR in June ~ HILL CUMORAH TOUR July-August EUROPE in August Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Full Moonlight After Rain Evalyn M. Sandberg Silence that is not silence Is fraught with myriad sound. A dog bays in the distance, A leaf drops to the ground; A tiny frog is chirping, The shadows move with slight Moon-motion, creeping action. The whole facade of night, Brocaded in soft patterns Of midnight black and gold, In depth, is nature breathing. Now fragrant earth can hold The life-sustaining secrets Secure another year. And, inches down, seeds turn and reach Because the rain fell here. 479 Ninety-nine Mrs. HaNnNAH StusBs JONES Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. WILHELMINA C. S. N. CLEVELAND Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. ANNA CLARA ANDERSON PETERSON Murray, Utah Mrs. Mivxuicenr Curtis SMITH Bakersfield, California Ninety-four Mrs. IspeLL CHRISTENSEN OVERSON Richfield, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Mary Ann BaTEMAN QuINTON Montpelier, Idaho Ninety-two Mrs. SERENA JAcoBSON LARSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mountain Sari Vesta N. Fairbairn Sheer, like a Hindu sari, the mountain sky Is palest blue Adorned with a single golden butterfly, And threaded through With silver cobwebs caught amid the green Of needled pine And forest fir in silken, sun-shot sheen Of bright design. 480 Mrs. CHARLOTTE DEARDEN HARDMAN Magna, Utah Mrs. Mary A. WorxkMaNn GLINES Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. ExvizaABETH MorpduE SORENSON Goshen, Utah Mrs. Matira SPENCER JOLLEY Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Frances Laturop Leso Bakersfield, California Mrs. Gertie PostMa Ogden, Utah RosEANNA NEAGLE LUNT Cedar City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Mary ELLEN WILKINSON BRADBURY Bell Gardens, California Mrs. LAURA LitTLE BROADBENT Kanab, Utah Mrs. ANNIE M. ANDERSON* Dallas, 'Texas oregano a — MARVELOUS READING (and Listening) FOR JUNE! Here is a choice selection of enjoyable and informative books that will make your May reading program brighter and more meaningful! Biblical Sites in the Holy Land by Christine and O. Preston Robinson 3 95 Moving photographs and descriptions of the very spots where the Master talked and taught the people the Gospel. Rich, spiritual, uplifting! Se ihe Family Leadership: Inspired Counseling for Parents by V. Dallas Merrell An excellent and authoritative 2.50 guidebook to correct and happy family relationships. Compiled from the inspired teachings of LDS prophets and leaders on the importance of gospel-centered family conduct and activity. Pearl of Great Price in Living Sound (4 LP 33% discs in a handsome cloth bound album) — the stirring granduer of sacred 9 95 writings in full, rich and exciting s sound! Read by one of the Church's finest professional voices. Contains a forward written by Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of the Seventy. A magnificent addition to your ee of recorded scripture! Eseret Book | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN SREB RRR RSKRRERESRPEEERE SRBC Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah I would like to receive book(s) number for which I enclose (cheque, cash, money) the full cost $ 0.00 000. RrZone State 0.0 Residents of Utah add 3% sales tax. [IMMER RRR RRR PER eee Second Class Postage Paid. At Salt Lake City, Utah 'TOPS 'EM ALL! 4 + ne, conete DLAI ODI Tops for berries... And your breakfast cereal @ Tops in preference for canning and freezing, both home and commercial @ It's as pure, as fine, as sweet, as white as any Sugar you can buy... For every sweetening and preserving use @ It brings out the full flavor of fruit and other pleasure foods, from ice cream and candy to soft drinks and bakery desserts. U and | SUGAR COMPANY e SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 
