

SOCUETY MAGA ZAIN B 50th ANNIVERSARY YEAR The Cover Frontispiece Art Layout The Cycle Lael W. Hill After the seed, the greening, The soft root quested forth, A small stem thrust, a leaf uncurled Up from spring-warm earth. After the green, the blossom Opened to wind and sun And ministering of velvet bees Till summer's hour is gone. After the bloom, the ripeness Clustered on vine and stem, A cool sweet given, turn and taste, Down from the heavy limb. After the fruit, the sowing Of self in an hour grown late, The kernel waiting long through dark— Cycle again complete. — The Goblin Choir, Goblin Valley; Utah Transparency by Bill Ratcliffe Arch of Blossoms — Prune Orchard, Santa Clara Valley Califorma Photograph by Don Knight Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press TOM The illustrations in The Relief Society Magazine are so excellent. They add ereatly to its beauty. My congratulations to the splendid artist (Dick Scopes). My last two stories were illustrated, and it is amazing how closely the artist captured the likeness I had in mind as I wrote. —Helen H. Trutton Walla Walla, Washington The Magazine has been a delight to me for years. I have been a teacher of theology and literature, and have served as ward Relief Society secretary and president, and now I am teaching literature again, which I thoroughly enjoy. I especially admire the writings of Margery S. Stewart, which have appeared in the Magazine. —Ruby T. Thomas Salt Lake City, Utah I am a convert to the Church, and I do so much enjoy Relief Society and the wonderful Magazine. One of my deepest regrets is that I did not know about this Magazine and did not have it in my home while I was rearimg my seven sons and one daughter. I know that if this had been my privilege, I could have done a much better job. —Mtrs. Mary C. Walker Parma, Idaho Now that I am in the mission field and occasionally teaching the Relief Society lessons, I have gained a love for the sisterhood and for the Magazine. There is a wonderful group of sisters in the Ayr Branch. We all look forward to Tuesdays. The many poems, stories, and spe- 'cial articles in the Magazine really make it a choice piece of literature. I am_ so thankful that the Relief Society sisters of the Third Ward, Alpine Stake, in American Fork, Utah, saw fit to send me a subscription to the Magazine. I know many missionaries who wish the members of their wards would be so thoughtful. —Jeanne Runolfson Ayr, Ayrshire, Scotland 162 ead ae I am thankful for the privilege and honor of being a Magazine representative. I have now completed my fourth campaign. I love the size of the Magazine, as it fits so well into my purse. I really appreciate that — in more ways than one. The December Magazine has such a beautiful cover. —Norma M. ZoBell Raymond, Alberta Canada I always look forward to The Relief Societv Magazine. It is most interesting. I think the covers are beautiful, and there is so much to read. Also, I like the pictures of the Singing Mothers. —RMiss Mabel Davis London, England I once considered The Relief Society Magazine my very own, but it is no longer true. If my husband sees it first, it disappears until he has read all of the articles of interest to him. If I am lucky, I may discover it and read an article before it disappears again — this time into my seventeen-year-old daughter's room (she has been reading the Magazine for two years). I have another daughter coming up who has been casting eyes on the Magazine. —Elisabeth Nielson Olympia, Washington I find The Relief Society Magazine so uplifting. Yesterday I was feeling very discouraged and downhearted. It was a chilly fall day, and I felt the pressures of winter coming on, with all tne accompanying problems. Then my September Magazine arrived with the morning mail. I read it from cover to cover and it gave me such a good feeling. I felt I could face the winter, or almost anything, for that matter. My spirit was renewed, and several of my problems had been resolved by something I had read in the Magazine. —TIrene B. Devoe Cadillac, Michigan 

The Relief Society Magazine so uplifting. Yesterday I was feeling very discouraged and downhearted. It was a chilly fall day, and I felt the pressures of winter coming on, with all tne accompanying problems. Then my September Magazine arrived with the morning mail. I read it from cover to cover and it gave me such a good feeling. I felt I could face the winter, or almost anything, for that matter. My spirit was renewed, and several of my problems had been resolved by something I had read in the Magazine. —TIrene B. Devoe Cadillac, Michigan 

The Rehef society Magazine VOLUME 50 MARCH 1963 NUMBER 3 
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spatford General Manager

Contents
 SPECIAL FEATURES The Law of Obedience ooo. Eee icccecccecseeccceneeeeeseesaeecevessesecereeeeecesseececssesessnsseseeesceceeesCharlotte A. Larsen 164 A Kiss on Both Cheeks oonoooooiciccccccccccccccccceneececceceeseeceeeecceceecseeeesececccesecenees a. Helen Hinckley Jones 172 What Does Your Speech Reveal? Ooo. Ooeeecieceeeceeeeeeeesceeeeeeseeteeeeeeeeteeesstsesseees Myrtle E. Henderson 184 The Red Cross — A World-Wide Army of Mercy 000.000.0000 ———— en. James A. Linen 19] Contemplation Is Realization 2.0.0 a |Joan H. Haskins 210 FICTION Stranger at Nazareth — Third Prize Story 2 cceecccccccceeeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees Sylvia Probst Young 166 Kabobs for Stevie oocc. IcccccccccccecccccccevecseceescececececevenceecevaceasesceecescaeusnusussssssesensssuaseuceesescscueseeseseesMabel Harmer 177 Eventide ooo cccccceceeeeeeeeeeee ol eT ee ee Lice Frances C. Yost 212 Keep My Own — Chapter 3 nM ae 7 Loe Kit Linford 224 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far ooocicccccccccccccececeeecceneneceeeeceeecenceevecesseeeeeasa. Se oe a. S 162 Woman's Sphere ooo cece cee. A coccesatestesestuseceesseeseeeensvereeeresveee-- Ramona W. Cannon 187 Editorial: Willis Earl Spafford i --) eed satsnaeenasee hEtanacanecss tee 188 The Heritage of Relief Society oo nk ee A Vesta P. Crawford 189 Notes to the Field: Index for 1962 Relief Society Magazine Available 20022 ceccteecteteet eects 190 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 20.0 ccceccceceececcccceeeeeseeeeseeeseee Hulda Parker 230 Birthday Congratulations ooo ciccccccccccccesececseseseeeeveneecoteeececveseecsssesaenneseeseseeeceessescusneeeasceeseeveeereuseeeeseensecereeeeseees 240 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Let's Have a Bake Party oo ccecccccccccccccececceesnececeevenceseessecsevescssvesasaeecsarsesvensessssseseneaseneseeesMary S. Kemp 192 Sewing Success in Monument Park Eleventh Ward 0 a Heleh Lach 196 Pictures for the Home ooo.. I cc. C. Ccccccesccecceccecceccesseeceeccocceceeccesseeescsseseecerasecenseseseesseassusessensecacens Zola J. McGhie 200 Use of The Relief Society Magazine in Work Meeting o 0.0ccccccccecceseeeceeeeeeeceeeeeeJennie R. Scott 202 Ribbons and Roses ooieeecececccccsccoccecseceeececseeeessvsssecsssceueessseesesseeeeneesesee..: aJennie R. Scott 204 Make a Zabaton ou rr cor eee, | lietssstsseeeeeeeeeeee Jennie R. Scott 208 The Power of Protein ooo ccccccccccceccccceeeceseeecesenseeees Flora H. Bardwell and Ethelwyn B. Wilcox 214 "We Can't Be Perfect') oni icicceccccccceecccceccessceeeeescoscevenscesveseeeeenssesecsseeenateuscessesevereoeesChristie Lund Coles 216 Old Fences and Old Memories cn ne eeen nen.. Annie Atkin Tanner 218 Make It With Hamburger and Save ooo. O. Icccccececcececeescesceeseeseeeceveceeeeseuee ee Janet W. Breeze 220 Lucy S. Guyas, Maker of Many Quilts oo cccceecccceeeeceeee i 223 POETRY The Cycle — Frontispiece oo. Noio. CciecccceccccecsssessecececeeecssenenssecencececsescetenserseseesenstssssnitessvseeteeeveveeeeesLael W. Hill 161 After the Forest, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 171; Too Beautiful, by Linnie F. Robinson, 176; BigMan Shoes, by Rose Thomas Graham, 183; Boy Wandering, by Zara Sabin, 186; Praise Is a Prayer, by Margery S. Stewart, 217; The Old Gate, by Catherine B. Bowles, 237; Recompense, by Verda P. Bollschweiler, 238. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

 163 The Law of [Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1962] E read in Psalms: "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise endureth for ever." By obedience to God's commandments the earth was created, it was without form and void. By his commandments the masses were assembled, light came, the seas and continents appeared, grass grew, animals and birds were created and, finally, the masterpiece of God's creation, man, a child of his Heavenly Father, was formed to have dominion over all the earth. Because of obedience to God's law we have the sun, our source of energy, oxygen in our atmosphere; life itself was made possible. If these elements which omniscient God has placed in their proper relationship did not obey all the commandments in their spheres, there would not be order in the universe. Planets would not revolve in their normal orbit; chaos would result. The first law that God ever gave to man was the law of obedience. It was a commandment pure and simple. From obedience and submission spring all other virtues. Thus wrote Montaigne: "Obedience is the most basic principle of God. By obedience to God's laws, 164 we have the privilege of returning to our home with him." God gave his Only Begotten Son that we might live again by obedience to the plan of salvation. God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ recognized that in order for this mortal period of man's existence to be of benefit to him, there would have to be a plan and rules by which man could live and gain eternal life, and thus be assured of his return to the presence of the Lord. These rules are so rigid and specific in their nature that only by following them would man be able again to dwell in the presence of God. In addition, God gave to each one of us the most valuable gift that we now have or ever will have, free agency. We must never forget the responsibility that goes with such a great gift. The choice is with us constantly. The Lord promises us many blessings but they are predicated on obedience to law and the covenant. In the Doctrine and Covenants he states, "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." Not only must we obey the Lord's commandments, we must teach our families to obey them. Does a true Latter-day Saint obey @lersenisialas only some of the commandments? Can we choose to pay tithing and fail to keep the Sabbath Day holy? Can we as parents and leaders teach our children to keep the Sabbath Day holy if we attend our meetings only once in awhile? Can we teach our children obedience to God's commandments if we obey only a portion of them? Can we obtain the promised blessings to the faithful if we take the liberty to justify or rationalize some of the things we do because someone else breaks the Jaw a little, or keeps only part of the Lord's commandments? 'The Lord will not judge us by others but only by ourselves and what we do. "If ye love me, keep my commandments," and if we do this for no other reason save he commanded it, we will be well along the road to immortality and eternal life. Then the windows of heaven will be opened and the blessings of heaven poured out so greatly that we will be unable to contain them. Let us look at the history of mankind and see what has happened when man ceases to obey. Look at the Israelites, the chosen people of God. After they were delivered from bondage, they forgot to keep his commandments and were forced to wander forty years in the wilderness to prepare themselves to enter into the promised land. Nephi, by obedience, was taught many things to enable his people to reach their promised land: the procuring of the sacred plates, the building of the ship, the sustaining of life during the trek through the wilderness. Also in our own Book of Mormon we have recorded the appearance of Christ to the people of this great land. He commanded and the people obeyed and peace reigned for 200 years. Sisters, we have a special obligation to be an example, not only an example of the believers but also of the doers. We have a special assignment in life. "Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day." "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven," I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ETERNITY Earth and heaven portray a pattern of ever-changing events, yet never-changing in purpose. God is the same yesterday, today, and always. —V. Mildred Oyston 165 STRANGER AT NAZARETH small breeze soft and gentle stirred among the leaves of the olive trees, and overhead a warm, blue sky lay like a great oval ceiling above the greening earth. It was spring in Nazareth — spring with its peace and flowering beauty touching everything — everything, but Martha's heart. Standing at the window, unaware of the fresh wonder of the day, she knew only the weight of sorrow, overwhelming, pulling her into the dark depths of despair. | "You must try not to grieve so," Lucius had told her with a husband's tender concern. "You must keep yourself well for Lydia's sake." For Lydia — Martha smiled faintly thinking of her small granddaughter. Lydia was like one ray of bright sunshine in a dark world. For Lydia she must live and try to keep a 166 semblance of the youthful zest that had always been hers. A door opened then, and Martha turned to see the little Lydia looking up at her. She was a beautiful child, with soft, creamy skin, and deep brown eyes that expressed a kind of wistful longing, sensing a loss that her five years were unable to comprehend. "You didn't sleep," Martha said, her eyes tender on the child. The little one shook her head. "T rested with my eyes open, and I played with my Jasamine doll." Her face was suddenly worried. "Will my mother be coming home today?" "Not today, Lydia." Her voice was dull, but quietly controlled. It was the same answer she had given day after day since Lydia had been given to her keeping, but how could she explain to so young a child? Perhaps when Lydia was older she would understand, but not now. Leprosy — the very word chilled her to the bone. Fearful and scourging — it meant only heartbreak and misery; coming with an evil venom, destroying not only the aged and sickly, but the young and beautiful as well — Anna — her own lovely Anna — now stricken by its ravishes. Martha found it hard to go on living, knowing that Anna was an outcast — that Anna could not return. All the money that Lucius and she had in the treasury could 'not rid Anna of the dreadful | disease for which no doctor had | found a cure. Twice she had been to the place of desolation leaving food and clothing and hurrying away, not looking back; it was a living death. Could she have laid Anna in a cool, clean sepulcher, peace would have come at last, but this way there could be no | peace — not ever. Determinedly, she tore her thoughts away from her grief; a little girl stood beside her. Lydia's father was in Jerusalem with the Roman army. Lucius and she must be father and mother to the child. "Let's go to the mount, Grandmother," the little one implored. ARTHA nodded. The mount, a low hill behind their home, _was a pleasant place for an idle hour. From the mount you could look over the white stone houses of Nazareth basking in the spring sunlight to Mount Tabor and beyond to the STRANGER AT NAZARETH Valley of Jezreel. It was a quiet place of retreat which Martha had often sought. "All right, little one," she consented, "we shall go to the mount." Together they went to the kitchen to make a lunch, because for Lydia a lunch was the most important part of going to the mount. From a shelf Martha took a small, round basket in which she put a loaf of barley bread, a square of honey comb, and some little fig cakes, covering it with a clean, white napkin. Over the napkin she laid a brown paper on which she placed a bright-colored scarf that she was making and Lydia's Jasamine doll. From a low cot in the dining room she took a soft, blue robe to sit on. Hand in hand Lydia and she crossed the olive grove and walked along the quiet path to the mount. Pausing a moment, Martha looked back across the wide vineyard, beyond the spacious stone house. Lucius and she were among the most prosperous of Nazareth, but gladly they would have given it all — the flocks and vineyard — the costly home furnishings, to have Anna back. The mount was green and inviting, with the feel of spring everywhere. By the side of a palm tree Martha laid the woolen robe and they sat down in the warm sunlight. From the basket she took the wooden doll and the fig cakes for Lydia, and her nimble fingers were soon occupied with her handwork. For long moments, there was no sound, and then they heard a footfall. Martha raised her eyes to see a 167 MARCH 1963 man coming along the path toward them. A tall, well-built, young man, walking slowly as if in meditation, but when he raised his dark eyes Martha gazed in wonder at the face she looked upon. A gentle face it was, a face of wisdom and compassion, not to be forgotten. The stranger spoke softly. "It's a beautiful day to be here," he said. Martha was warmed by his friendliness, and awed by his presence, not knowing why. "We love this little mount," she answered, "and it's so close to home." FE. Nodded, "I shall miss Nazareth when I go." 'There was a note of loneliness in his voice. It was a leading statement and Martha wanted to ask him why he was leaving, but she didn't. Instead, she invited him to sit there with them for a little while. Something about him seemed strangely familar. I've seen him before, she thought, but where and when? Amiably he sat down on the robe beside them, and Martha felt a kind of calming peace in his presence, while Lydia, who made friends with everyone, quickly began talking to the pleasant stranger. "Look," she said, holding up her wooden doll, "this is Jasamine, but she needs a new dress." He took the offered toy in gentle hands, touching it lightly. "How would you like me to make you another like her?" he asked. "Oh, yes!" Lydia clapped her hands as he drew from a pocket in his tunic a piece of wood about the length of the doll, and a little knife in a leather case. 168 With deft fingers he guided the knife through the wood, changing it to a figure with a head and arms and legs. 'The woman and child watched quietly while it seemed that his hands moved almost automatically, his eyes, touched with sadness, seemed to be seeing something far beyond. In a surprisingly short time the doll was finished, beautifully carved, equally as fine featured as the one it had been made to match. Lydia was overjoyed. "Now it needs some clothes," she said, holding it up in her hand. "We shall make them both a tunic tomorrow," Martha promised. Lydia was hungry then, so Martha took the food from the basket, and spread it out before them on the white napkin. Her guest was pleased, and shared the picnic lunch with pleasure. "T can think of nothing better than the fresh honey comb with a barley loaf," he told her. "The honey — is it from your own bees?" "Yes," Martha answered, and then she told him of Lucius, and their flocks and vineyard. "And Lydia," he asked, "does she live with you?" Martha nodded, while her eyes looked searchingly far away. "Her father," she said, "is in the army in Jerusalem, and her mother" — her voice was broken — "is a — leper." The word choked her, and she bowed her head to hide the sudden rush of tears. The young man did not speak, but he laid his gentle hand upon her shoulder, and in that moment a sudden comforting warmth filled Martha's whole being. It was un- believable! She raised her awe-filled eyes to look at him. Who was he with such miraculous power? "Who are you?" she wanted to ask, but her lips refused to speak the question in her heart. E'T, in spite of her wonder, Martha felt that she had known this man as one knows an old friend, and they talked as friends might do, of many things, while Martha marveled at his great wisdom and knowledge. Although years older, she was like the child, and he the teacher, as they talked of prophets and kingdoms and the world and its wonders. Long shadows were falling, and Lydia, tired from play, had fallen asleep, when they rose to go. Martha would have wakened her, but her gentle friend lifted the child in his strong, young arms. "She is light as a feather," he said, "one of God's precious children." Quietly they walked down from the mount, while the sun, a great burning ball of orange, hung low in the western sky. At her home Martha unlatched the door, and the man carried Lydia to the low cot in the dining room. He smiled lovingly at her. "It has been a very pleasant afternoon," he said. "Indeed it has," Martha agreed quickly. "Perhaps we shall see you again another day?" "Another day," he answered, and turned to go, but at the doorway he hesitated, and again Martha felt the tender compassion in his eyes. "Friend," he said, "let not your heart be troubled, for she that is afflicted shall return again to you, STRANGER AT NAZARETH whole and well." Then, turning quietly, he went away. Behind the closed door Martha stood as one shaken, uncomprehending. What manner of man was this who could even promise that a leper would be healed? Who was he? Then Martha's eyes came suddenly to rest on the round oak table and in that moment she knew — the carpenter's Son! He and his father had made her beautifully carved table. No wonder he could carve a doll for Lydia, no wonder she had thought she had seen him before. But why was he endowed with power to comfort and to speak prophetic blessings? Was he some kind of prophet, great and wise? Martha was perplexed, and when Lucius came from the fields for his supper she told him of her experiences with the young stranger. Lucius listened in his gentle, understanding way. Perhaps this man is a great prophet," he told her, "and perhaps you will see him again, Martha, and then you may find out." "T must see him again," she answered softly, "for he has given me peace." Long after the curtains of night were drawn, and Lucius slumbered, Martha lay with open eyes, a plan going through her mind. 'Tomorrow 'Tarza would come to clean, then she would leave Lydia to the servant girl's care and she would go to the carpenter shop to learn more of this amazing man. Before the sun rose next morning, Martha was up and about her tasks, her trip to the carpenter's shop paramount in her mind. She wanted to go early, but Tarza was late in 169 MARCH 1963 coming, and the sun was already high in the heavens before she could leave. Now she walked hurriedly along the narrow streets as if impelled by some inner urge, her thoughts on her mission and what she might give as reason for her visit. HE carpenter's shop stood next to a quiet street across the town from Martha's home, and as she drew near she could see a woman sitting on a bench beside a fig tree, her head bowed in her hands. It was evident that she was troubled about something. Martha hesitated, feeling like an intruder, but the woman, sensing another's presence, raised her head and Martha saw a face of gentle beauty beneath the dark, sorrowing eyes. "Good morning," she spoke softly. "May I be of service to you?" "Yes, perhaps you can help me. The young man who works in the carpenter shop, I have come seeking him." "You mean Jesus?"' "T did not learn his name, but yesterday my granddaughter and I met him on a mount near our home. I have never met anyone like him before. With the touch of his hand he brought peace to my heart, and promised that my stricken daughter would be made whole again." The other woman smiled knowingly. "Yes," she said, "he could promise that." "T came," Martha explained, "because I had to see him again, to know who he is." "He is not here." 'The answer was spoken with a sorrowing finality. »? 170 "This morning he went away to begin his great mission; I do not know when he will return." "You are his mother?" "Yes, I am his mother. Mary is my name." ARY — there was something different about her, too — something that seemed finer than anything earthly. And, looking at her, Martha saw the same tender compassion in her face that she had seen in the face of her son. "You have come a long way," she told Martha, "rest here and I will bring you a drink." Quickly she crossed to the sundried brick house and_ returned presently with a plate of small cakes and a pitcher of cool water. When she had eaten and drunk, Martha asked again about the other woman's son. "Tell me, you spoke of his great mission. Is he a prophet of God, for surely no ordinary man has such power as he." Mary looked at her long and earnestly. "Yes," she said, "I can read it in your face, you are a believing one. He is more than a prophet; he is the One of whom the prophet foretold, the promised King of Israel." For long moments neither woman spoke, it was as if they were in a holy place. "Tell me all about him," Martha said at length. Then Mary told her of his wondrous birth in Bethlehem, of the flight into Egypt, and of his childhood days in Nazareth. She recalled the time when he had gone with them to the Feast of the Passover in Jerusalem, and how they had found him, a boy of twelve, teaching the great and wise there in the temple. Her eyes lighted tenderly when she spoke of his great love for all of God's little creatures — a lamb, a bird, a bee, and for all of the lovely things that adorned the earth, a tree, a lily, a blade of grass. Like a star, her face glowed when she spoke of his tender concern for STRANGER AT NAZARETH his home and family, the friends he had found. The words sank deep into Martha's heart. Always she would remember this morning, and the wonderful afternoon before — a highlight of her life, never to be forgotten. "Thank vou for telling me this," she said as she rose to g0, "T shall see him again, some day." "Yes, someday," the mother answered, "some wonderful day." Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, placed first in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1956, and received the first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1951 and 1961, second prize in 1952, and third prize in 1959. A busv schoolteacher, homemaker, and Church worker, Mrs. Young 1 ls also a creative artist in the literary field. "It is always a thrill to me,' lished in The Relief Society Magazine. Summer when school is out. For Church magazines. ' she writes, "to find a poem or a story of mine pubI write because I love to, but usually in the (I am a fourthgrade teacher. ) My poems have appeared in Utah Sings and in other antholoI have written mostly gies. When I was in the California Mission, I was editor of the mission magazine. As a member of the Church, and a homemaker, my blessings are bountiful. My husband Reid W. Young is a member of the Midvale Stake High Council, and our four sons are active Priesthood workers. In the British Northeast Mission." iia ite oe Petes The eldest, Robert, is now serving as a missionary After the Forest a ]. Roberts ste Doman a tw,' The c pore Senay i = ott lies Not in lush abundance, but in the vast Repose which rests the spirit and the eyes — After bristling landscape, calm at last. Beauty lies in a ring of poppies, Like a brooch on the bosom of the sand — Or in one lily and a single stone Jeweled with a lichen band. 171 a Kiss on Both Cheeks Helen Hinckley Jones HE bus doesn't travel directly from Basle, Switzerland, to Faverois, France. It takes a snake's winding course from village to village. We sat silently — my husband Ivan, my daughter Sammie, and I, as we passed fields as green as spring salad, broken by cleared patches as brown and baked as giant slices of country bread. We were thinking of the DuCloux family, Ivan's relatives who, like their fathers before them, lived in Faverois. From Germany Ivan had written to Monsieur DuCloux that we were expecting to be near Faverois. In Switzerland, he had received a letter from the daughter, Francoise. Monsieur DuCloux was away on business but his wife, his son, and daughter would be happy to greet us. Would we call when we reached 172 Basle? So Ivan had called. "Come early," Madam DuCloux had urged, "in time to eat with us." We had forgotten that in the village dinner is the midday meal. SO now we were on our way to Faverois, half excited, half hesitant. What would we have to talk about with cousins we had never seen? Would they like us or would we be brash intruders? Each mile of the journey reminded us that eastern France and Amertica are different, very different. At nearly every crossroad the bus stopped at a village — a cluster of gray two-storied houses, each house half barn so that people and animals live under one roof. Although it was not yet eight, women were gathered around the central fountain which in days gone by fur _ heavy waists. Nished the whole village with water. _ The women were always chatting and laughing as if life were always a gay thing. Perhaps, since the bus came just twice a day, it was an event in quiet lives, and the housewives had timed their daily shopping _ to be at the bus stop to see who got off and who got on. Some had already purchased long loaves of unwrapped bread. Others clutched string bags stuffed with the brown paper cornucopias that are the grocery bags of European shopkeepers. At every stop people got on or off the bus. There were women in dark dresses to their black-stockinged ankles, with aprons almost as dark, almost as long, tied around their The faces of the women, somehow sad in_ repose, _ came alive with hearty good humor as they fell into noisy conversation with chance friends. There were young girls with clicking high heels, tight skirts above nylon covered knees, and ratted bouffant hair above unlined pretty faces. Young men, riding from one village to work in another, rubbed chafed hands together and joked with each other boisterously — perhaps to attract the attention of the girls. Old men, theumy eyed, clambered on with the _aid of the bus driver and settled with grunts and sighs onto the nearest seats. Sometimes older children, carrying bags of schoolbooks, climbed on, jostling each other and Staring at us with open curiosity. And we wondered about the DuCloux family. Along the road younger children laughed and played on their way to the village school. 'The boys wore smocks almost to the bottom of A KISS ON BOTH CHEEKS their brief pants, the girls, pinafores over their dresses. And even the tiniest carried a bag of books slung to their backs or carried in the hand. Everywhere the farmers and their wives were already at work in the fields, the women looking like part of the landscape in their long skirts, their heads turbaned with white kerchiefs. Once we passed a young couple going to the field on a bicycle, a baby tied to the mother's back. In France, it seemed, women were really their husbands' helpmates. What would the DuCloux women think of us soft Americans? Once we passed a weathered cart with a drooping horse. The man and woman walking beside it looked like figures from Millet. "Take a picture, Daddy,' Sammie _ urged. Then, "But they might not like it." "No one likes to be thought picturesque," her father said; and then we talked about human dignity as the bus traveled east and west yet always north toward Faverois. 'HAVEROIS," the bus driver told us, looking at us with unconcealed curiosity. And Faverois looked like all the other villages; gray houses that were half barn, a small church, a wayside shrine. But to us it was different because we stepped from the bus to the outstretched hand of Madame DuCloux. Her dark eyes were bright with welcome, her handclasp was warm and firm, and her greeting was a burst of French. 'The DuCloux family speaks no English; because of their business, German is their second language. At once Ivan was chattering easily. A mission in 173 MARCH 1963 France thirty years ago had given him the use of the language. Sammie and I remembered the correct phrases of greeting. A_ beautiful young girl, looking like a college coed in a yellow sweater and smooth skirt of blue wool, seemed to appear from nowhere. This was Francoise, who had written the letter that brought us to Faverois. We had expected to see the inside of one of the tall gray houses we had seen in all of the villages, but the DuCloux family had recently built a modern yellow stucco villa with a wide balcony overlooking a garden blazing with fall flowers. "I can't live without flowers," Madame DuCloux said. Her zinnias made me suddenly incredibly homesick and I nodded in agreement. 'here was a back garden, too, alive with beauty, and an orchard that stretched away to low green hills. After a time, we sat in the living room admiring with our eyes the beautiful antique provincial furniture, and commenting on the shining new television and the record player. Conversation was as natural as if we had known each other always. There were two young DuCloux children, both of them away at school. We looked at the school pictures of the seventeen-year-old daughter, and I just happened to have pictures of my twenty-year-old daughter who was at home in Amertica. Madame DuCloux brought out family photographs that cousins in America had sent and Ivan pointed out his father. Francoise unrolled a scroll with the family tree on it. Only the DuCloux who had remained in Faverois had their names 174 upon the beautifully executed leaves and vines. A young American cousin, Mark, had spent the summer with them, and they spoke of him with affection and with laughter. He had learned French so fast. He had had an incredible amount of energy that had kept him racing from morning until bedtime. Then they asked about the "pére de Mark" and the "grandpere de Mark." PRANCOISE, who has completed her education and is a partner with her father in a large fish business — from hatchery to market — wanted to know more about career women in America. How do women with families manage their businesses? How many mothers work in America? Why do the American women who work outside their homes choose to do so? Madame DuCloux, whose life is her husband, her family, her home, wondered about American housewives. Do they love to cook and make cooking a fine art? Do they enjoy gardening? Do they excel in homemaking? When we women moved from the parlor to the kitchen, Sammie and [| could no longer depend upon Ivan to do most of the talking. "Le Francais d'école" is not exactly the French we needed to gossip over dinner preparation, but Sammie did well, Francoise helped out, and Madame DuCloux smiled understandingly. After a time Bernard, the brother of Francoise, came into the kitchen. He was a handsome young man with a blunt, forthright manner and turbulent eyes. He was awaiting his call to the military but he didn't want to speak of that. Instead, he took Sammie in to the record player and brought out his stack of "fortyfives," American and European, and the two listened to Harry Bela fonte like cousins who had been reared on the same street. And then there was dinner, served beautifully in eight courses in the French manner. Madame DuCloux, as women the world over, expressed her feelings in the preparation of food. When the aperitif was served, lemonade was provided for us. Mark had explained the Word of Wisdom. Next bread — wonderful bread both dark and white — to be eaten with sweet butter and thin slices of slightly smoked beef. The fish of the third course were plattersized trout, one for each. (The only break in the friendly feeling in the kitchen had been when Sammie had requested that the heads be cut off before the fish were cooked. She said she couldn't stand to see fried fish looking at her accusingly. Madame had said in polite but blunt French, "You hadn't better stay around here, then," and she gestured with her head toward the barn just across the driveway where the fish were prepared for market.) We felt we had dined well when the fish course was finished, but the meat course was a long filet of beef, which had been dotted with butter and roasted to just the right doneness, fork tender, and mushrooms, steamed, simmered slowly in butter, and finished with sweet cream. 'Ihe mushrooms were heaped upon the plates as if they were carrots — or potatoes. Next there was a fresh green salad with a dressing A KISS ON BOTH CHEEKS made of oil and vinegar and aromatic spices that was not even remotely related to "French" dressing in a bottle. After the salad came the cheese, several varieties, served with more flavorable bread. The dessert was open-faced wild blackberry pie. Such a pie I had never seen nor tasted. An unbaked crust was placed in a large shallow pie pan and filled with the berries. Over the berries was poured a mixture of beaten egg, cream, and sugar, and the whole baked to a bubbling succulence. FTER dinner we visited the orchard, and Francoise picked a basket of apples for us. Now the talk changed to the plans of Francoise to visit America. The Utah cousins had invited her, and we urged her to extend her trip to Callifornia. We suggested that she stay a year and study the language and American business methods. She said that a year was too long. When I asked, "Would you rather live in a city or a village?" she answered with simplicity and dignity, "All my life I have lived in a village." In the late afternoon Francoise borrowed a car from an aunt to drive us back to Basle. Even with the promise of a ride through the quiet countryside, we were reluctant to leave. Bernard came in from work, and afraid of becoming emotional, said a brusque goodbye. But Madame DuCloux embraced us and kissed each of us on both cheeks, the tears standing in her eyes. She would never come to America, and we would never again be in Faverois. 175 MARCH 1963 We stood on the driveway holding tightly to each other's hands. She was holding to the little breath of romance from another and different world. I was holding to the warmth and love that had welled up naturally from her sensitive sweet spirit. How is Ivan related to this family? He and Monsieur DuCloux are five generations removed from a common ancestor. And what magic had brought us together that day in Faverois? Ivan's cousin, Margaret Jones Stephens, tracing the genealogy of her paternal grandmother, had found the DuCloux family first in New Orleans and then in Fayerois. The "pére de Mark," in France with the American military, had made a visit, then young Mark had spent the summer. How many cousins all over the world might we find in a similar way? And, oh, when again will someone, in the same spirit, kiss us on both cheeks? Too Beautiful ——— Linnie F. Robinson Oh, canyoned hills of early spring, i. Yk i Pod With peaks of snow to shine and sing, Upon your shoulders, carelessly, — Lae You wear the oak and maple tree; >_> With cliffs of stone and jutting rock, Tall forest trees and pale blue stock; Small squirrels, each with soft white breast, Or smooth blue eggs cupped in a nest; Then blades of grass so newly long — You are a miracle of song. Here cradled on your sloping side I see your splendor, reaching wide: Heaven is with me, for I can see Each part of it in things that be. Oh, I shall know the whole world round When I can know this spot I found. 176 Mabel Harmer 6 6 OTHER, will you measure this skirt so that I can wear it tomorrow?" Pam held up a flowered skirt, which to Elaine's harrassed eyes seemed to be at least twenty yards around. "PIL try," she agreed. "If any two of you four could manage to get in for lunch at the same time it would leave me a few minutes for other tasks. Vacation is definitely not for mothers." She glanced out of the window as she heard the car stop in the driveway. Ordinarily Bert didn't come home to lunch, but, of course, he would today when she was especially busy. Her mild irritation gave way to pleasure when she noticed that he was Carrying a florist's box. "It's sweet of you to bring me flowers, dear," she greeted him. "But won't it look a bit presumptuous for me to wear a corsage before I'm elected?" "Elected?" he repeated, puzzled. "Elected to what?" "President of the Women's Civic League, of course. The meeting is tonight. Isn't that what?" Bert shrugged slightly. "No, it isn't. 'Tonight is the company dinner when I get my fifteen-year pin. I thought maybe you'd remember. But it isn't important." "Of course it's important," said Elaine quickly. "I'll skip the meeting. 'The committee will understand." "You'll do no such thing," protested Bert. "It isn't as if I was getting a fifty-year pin, or even a twenty-five. It isn't such a feat to have been with Fields for fifteen years." "TIl go to the dinner, and there'l] be no more argument about it," said Elaine decisively. It was on the ti of her tongue to add that this was the first real recognition he had ever received, but she caught herself in time. The minute he had gone back to work she called Annette Shivers, chairman of the nominating committee. "I'm terribly sorry," she said, "but we've had a mix-up on dates. Bert is getting an award at the company dinner, and of course I have to be there." "Oh, dear! That's too bad," lamented Annette. "That pushing Nora Macklin will have the edge, if you're not there. She's been president of everything in town now except the dog-catchers association. Isn't there any way you can make ie "None whatever. I can't let Bert down. And it isn't as if this job were a matter of life and death, you 177 MARCH 1963 know. I'm errand girl for three or four others. I'll manage to keep busy." "T know. But you'd be so good for this one. We were counting on you. Maybe we can put it over anyway." Flaine sat thinking for a moment after putting down the phone. It was true that she didn't particularly want the presidency. Why is it, she wondered, that I manage to get into so many jobs, the symphony board, the Red Cross Blood Bank, and the United Fund, besides my Church calling as social science class leader in Relief Society? Five minutes with any fast talker and I'm done for. "You'd be so good at it," was the usual line. "And we need you." That last was usually the clincher. GHE went up to the closet and took out her old blue lace formal. Was there anything she could do to make it look different? Not at this late date. Maybe next time she could dye it black or get a different color slip. After all, it was only. Three years old. Anyway, there was no need thinking of a new one. Not with Joyce determined to take dancing lessons and Kerry's teeth to be straightened. It's too bad there isn't a salary attached to being on boards and drives, she couldn't help thinking. If I were half as smart as some folks say I am, [d get a paying job of some kind. It shouldn't be so hard now that Stevie is in school full time. She opened the drawer where she kept her artificial flowers, then remembered the corsage. It was the first one that Bert had given her for 178 ages. 'The affair must mean a lot to him. She must make the most of it. She glanced at the clock. Almost two. Ann Griffen would be here at any minute to call for her to do their visiting teaching, and after that she had promised to turn in her report on the United Fund. She couldn't possibly do Pam's skirt. She'd give Jen a ring. "Of course I'll do it," said her sister-in-law agreeably. "Pam must have everything she can to keep up with the other girls." Elaine resented the mild inference that Pam was being neglected, but this was no time to make an issue of it. It was probably true that the girls didn't have everything they wanted, but they had never gone without anything really important. It was going to take more money right along now, however. Joyce wasn't going to be satisfied with Pam's hand-me-downs after she started junior high next year. If only Bert were a bit more aggressive! He was so wonderful in every other way. As she and Ann left the house, Elaine suggested, "Now, we mustn't let Sister Rogers keep us very long this afternoon. Remember we have six other visits to make." "IT know," Ann agreed. "But she doesn't get out much, and she does enjoy talking with us so much—with you, anyway. She says that you are so clever and do so many interesting things." Flaine smiled. "Right now I have to interest myself in making these visits and turning in my United Fund report so that I can get home before the boys do. They're down at the playground swimming, and they'll be completely hollow by the time they reach the refrigerator." Yet she barely made it back in time to greet them. "We don't want much to eat," was Stevie's surprising statement. "We're going over to Timmie's. It's his birthday and his mother is making kabobs." "Do you eat them or wear them?" asked Elaine with an amused smile. "Eat them, of course," he replied scornfully. "I'll show you how to make them some day." It was easily seen that her stature as a mother would improve greatly once she had learned to make kabobs. "Then I can go easy on dinner, I suppose. 'That will be nice, since I am going out with Dad." HE girls promptly made plans to eat with Aunt Jen. "As long as I'm going over anyway to have her help with my skirt," said Pam, "and she's always tickled to have wah Elaine felt something of a pang that they all left so cheerfully. Was it as if she had somehow failed them? And yet, why should she? It wasn't as if she were walking out on them for her own pleasure. After all, she was going out with their father to something that was important to him. And what if Timmie's mother did make swell kabobs? Had she ever been responsible for one single donation to the Red Cross Blood Bank? Those were the values that counted in the long run. At least, Elaine hoped that they were. KABOBS FOR STEVIE Bert's eyes lighted up when they were ready to go. "You look gorgeous," he said. "Those pink roses were the right color, weren't they?" "Perfect," she agreed. Her dress could be three years old or ten, Bert wouldn't know or care. She would still look gorgeous to him. There were about 300 people at the dinner, including the mayor and a number of other dignitaries. While they were waiting on the mezzanine floor, Radcliffe Hardin, the chairman of the United Fund drive came over. "I see that you got your report in. Congratulations on a magnificent job. I don't know what we would have done without you." "Yes, indeed," Mrs. Hardin chimed in. "A dozen times I've heard Rad say, 'Mrs. Rogers will take care of that.' I think it's the limit the way the men turn over all the work to us and take all the glory. Don't you?" Elaine smiled. Limit." It was nice to have appreciation, but to be singled out for it was the last thing she wanted at the moment. 'This was Bert's night, and she wanted only to be in the background. It was becoming less likely every minute. Hardin called to Roy Lambert, the mayor. "You know Mrs. Rogers, of course. She has been my right hand in the United Fund drive. And Mr. Rogers," he added as an obvious afterthought. "I just thought you'd like to know where you can turn when you need funds for a new fire engine or to get elected, or something." "The absolute 179 MARCH 1963 "Thanks, I'll remember,' answered the mayor with a chuckle. With relief, Elaine saw the crowd moving across the mezzanine towards the dining room. She gave Bert a sidelong glance to see if he had minded. 'There was nothing in his expression to indicate that he had. On the other hand, he hadn't started shouting any hoorahs. The tables were each set for eight, and they found a place with the Armstrongs who worked in the same department with Bert. Rowena Armstrong had been one of her lieutenants in the drive, and it was only natural that she would bring it up again. "Aren't you exhausted, darling?" she cried. "I am, and I suppose my work wasn't a tenth as heavy as yours. But it does give one a wonderful feeling of satisfaction to know that it was so successful, doesn't it? Everyone thinks you did a terrific job." "Thanks. I'm glad it ended before tonight. I want to enjoy this dinner." She tried to say it with an air of also ending the discussion and helped by asking Dan about his fishing, a subject on which he could talk for hours. The dinner was superb, and Elaine was enjoying herself thoroughly. Later, when the awards were made, she couldn't help feeling a bit deflated. Bert stood with eight others to receive the fifteen-year pins. There was a round of applause for the group. Then the other awards were made. "Only another dozen years and I can get one of those diamonds that go in the twenty-five-year pin," remarked Dan cheerfully. "Only I 180 hope that I have to travel here to get it. If I can't swing a branch managership by that time, I'll get out and sell brushes." "T hear there's going to be an opening in Morriston," said Rowena. "I believe that Dan could get it, if he'd just go after it." "You don't ask for manager's desks, Pet," he observed. "You work your nails to the quick and hope that you'll be selected." ON the way home Elaine asked, "Do you think that Dan has a chance to get the managership at Morriston?" "A pretty good chance. He's capable, but he shoots off his mouth too much. He's a go-getter, though, and Fields knows it." Elaine sighed inwardly. Dan had been at Fields two years less than Bert. By rights it should be he who was in line for promotion. But did anyone ever speak of him as a "go-getter"? Was it only wives who realized what depths there were to still waters? When Annette called the next morning to tell Elaine that she had lost out on the presidency, she was only mildly disappointed. "Never mind," she said lightly. "Pll scout around and see if I can't find something else to do with just as much work." She had to wait only a few hours. She was planning a picnic for the family when a call came from Radcliffe Hardin's office. "Could you possibly drop down for half an hour on some very important business?" he asked. Elaine replied that she would. She had hoped that the Fund work was all over. Anyway she'd get most of the lunch ready before she left. Then the picnic could go on as planned even if she were delayed. Too many things had interfered with family outings of late. 'This one simply must go on. At Mr. Hardin's office she cooled her heels in the reception room with very poor grace for more than twenty minutes. When she was finally shown in she was surprised to see two other men also there. "Tm awfully sorry to have kept you waiting," Hardin apologized. "There were a few details we had to straighten out. And, by the way, this has nothing to do with the Fund. 'This time it's politics." "Politics!" repeated Elaine, wideeyed. "That's it. Parley Maitland here is our state chairman. I thought you had met. And Chet Warner is national committeeman." Flaine acknowledged the introductions. "Well, to get down to brass tacks, we've been looking the field over here for a strong contender for the State senate from our district. We want someone with proved ability who can pull the vote of the women. After searching the field, we feel that we have hit on exactly the ideal candidate. Mrs. Rogers, we would like you to run." "Me!" cried Elaine aghast. "Why, I don't know the first thing about politics." "In some ways that's an advantage. You don't have any political enemies. You've been interested in schools. A lot of help is needed there." "Td have to think it over," she KABOBS FOR STEVIE said weakly. "And consult my husband, of course." "Of course," he agreed. "We don't want to rush you, but time is getting short. Since you aren't particularly well known in the political arena it will take some time to build you up — make you known." "Yes, I understand." She said goodbye and left. In spite of her rush to get home to finish preparations for the picnic, she walked back. 'The whole idea was almost overwhelming. It wasn't only the honor. It was a chance to be of real service. Most of all, here was a chance at last to make some money. She knew that the pay wasn't high, but it was something. And there were so many mounting needs for extra income. She would have to arrange for some help in the house. Now, if only Bert would consent. (THERE was little question of that. She couldn't remember when he had ever opposed her on any matter that was very big. And he was just as proud of her accomplishments as if he were personally responsible for every one. When she reached the house she went about making final preparations with feverish energy. She had the box almost packed when Stevie came in. "What are we going to have, Mummie?" he asked. "I thought we'd fry Would you like that?" "Yeah, I reckon," he admitted. "But kabobs are better." "Tm sorry, but I'm afraid we'll have to make out with what I have here for today." The picnic turned out to be a "burgers. 181 MARCH 1963 great success with everyone, including Stevie, consuming generous amounts of 'burgers and trimmings. J\LAINE waited that night until the children were in bed to break the news. "The most outlandish thing happened today," she said. "Radcliffe Hardin called me down to his office. A couple of others were there. You'll never guess what they wanted!" "Hm, that's an easy one. Wanted you to take a job." "Well, it was hardly that. They want me to run for an office this fall. For the State senate, of all things. Did you ever hear of anything so wild?" "Oh, I don't know. Did you accept?" They "Without consulting you! Of course not." 'There was a long pause. 'Then she asked, "Well, what do you think about it?" "It's entirely up to you," he replied, almost too casually. "I daresay you'd have lots of fun. I notice the legislature gets invited out to meals pretty regularly. If they ask me, too, we'll save on the board bill. I guess we can't expect them to include the kids." "Bert — please be serious. 'The nominating convention is only a few weeks away. I have to give them my answer tomorrow." "Then go ahead with my blessing — if it's what you want." "T wish I knew if it was what you want," she said wistfully. He kissed her lightly. "I want you to be utterly and completely happy. If this will help — then take it on." "Thanks. I believe I will," she 182 said, excitement creeping into her voice. As she dropped off to sleep She thought, I wonder how many women there are in the legislature. That must be terribly thrilling. She gave an affirmative answer to Hardin the next day, and shortly afterward was announced as a candidate. At once exciting things began to happen. 'There were messages of congratulation. 'There were invitations to speak. Free tickets began to arrive. 'Two different people called to "get a word in early about a hoped for bill." The convention was only about a week away, and they were at the annual company outing when Dan Armstrong remarked casually, "I'm sorry that Bert turned down the job at Lincoln. I think it would have turned out to be a good thing in the long run. Of course there'd have been a dry spell while he was building the business up, but he'd have made good." LAINE murmured something noncommital and tried to look as if she knew what he was talking about. She could hardly wait to get home to ask, ""What's this about an offer at Lincoln?" "Oh, it's a new company starting up. They offered me the managership of the store." "And you turned it down?" "Well, what else could I do? I'd have to take less pay than I'm getting now, and we just barely manage as it is. You can't very well leave here now that you're involved in this political thing. Anyway, I'm not sure that I could handle the business. It's pretty big." Elaine sat still for a moment. Through her mind flashed a panorama of the civic duties she had done in the past — of the many friends here in the city — the chance she now had for broader activities. There also flashed a picture of Pam going to Aunt Jen for various favors. Of Stevie spending more and more time at the neighbors. Of Bert quietly accepting mediocrity in his work. She stood up. "We can get along on less money for a time, if we have to. I can leave here, and you can handle the business. They wouldn't have asked you if they hadn't been sure. A challenge like this is all in the world you need. You can call and accept the very first thing in the morning." Big-Man Shoes Rose Thomas Graham Clomp, clomp, clomp, clomping down the long street, Big-size shoes with little-size feet. Where are they going? What is their plan? Big-man shoes with little-boy man. Way up high in a blue airplane? On a green boat? In a red train? Off for a year, a month, or a day? ++ 4. KABOBS FOR STEVIE "But what will Hardin say? What will the party do?" "What Hardin says doesn't matter. And the party can get another candidate. It's been done before." Bert picked up a hairbrush and twirled it neatly around. "Lincoln isn't a very big town," he said. "You'd miss all the activity you've had here. What would you do without the symphony board, the United Fund drive, and the rest?" "Td do a lot of things I haven't had time to do before," Elaine replied. "Pd put the hems in Pam's skirts and hear all about her latest party. I'd learn the workings of the store from the manager himself. But, first of all," her eyes twinkled, "I think that I'd learn to make kabobs for Stevie." The world is so small — time far away. 69 2 He has his secrets. T wouldn't dare Question the how, the when, or the where Man-shoes are taking little-boy feet Clomp, clomp, clomp, clomping down the long street. 183 What does your SPEECH reveal? PEECH is communication of S thought, and one purpose of speech is to set up friendly relations among people. It is well for every woman to think about the effect her voice and her manner of speaking are having upon those with whom she is associated. Children Come First Perhaps without realizing it, mothers themselves are contributing to some of the problems of their children. Psychologists tell us that a mother who greets her child in a shnill, angry voice, "Don't slam that door! Go back and wipe your feet!" has very likely made the child feel like going out and slamming the door again and never coming back home. She has started a train of feelings of resentment in the child and has contributed to his nervous tension. A child's speech will reflect the kind of speech he hears at 184 home. It may gratify or embarrass the parents. If this was not a fact, all children would talk alike. Be honest with yourself — does the flatness of your voice reflect a listless attitude toward life? Is the shrillness caused by taut nerves? Does huskiness obscure the vitality of your words? Is your voice so sweet that what you say seems insincere? One mother was told that her voice was one cause of her son's resentment and disobedience. She had a tape recording made of her voice. Upon hearing the recording, she exclaimed, "I don't sound like that! That's the voice of a nag — a shrew!" It is difficult for us to realize just how our voices sound unless we have them recorded and listen to them ourselves. Sometimes parents have voices so flat, nasal, or husky that they may make the child feel depressed. Their voices do not give any soothing love or parental quality to the child's world. How Does Your Voice Affect Husband and Friends? Even though we may not be aware of it, our voices give impressions of us, either for good or for bad. Our mood is usually reflected in our voices. If we are happy our voices fairly thrill with joy. If we are sad, one can almost hear the tears. An optimist will sound cheerful, a pessimist will sound mournful and sad. The whining, nagging woman may gradually drive away the happiness in her home. Kind words of appreciation will do more to keep family and friends happy than any amount of criticism and nagging will do. Causes of Poor Speech Poor speech may be due to various factors or a combination of causes. Nervous people are inclined to speak so rapidly that they cannot be understood. 'This is because they run their words together. Their articulation is lazy and indistinct. Their lips and tongue do not move enough to make the sounds properly. This lip and tongue laziness may also be attributed to pure carelessness. Leaving off sounds from endings of words makes for poor, uncultured speech. The singing sound of ing is often left off from words like dancing, asking, laughing; sometimes the d is left off of words like hand, sound, land. In doing this, much beauty of WHAT DOES YOUR SPEECH REVEAL? Speech is lost. 'There are other sound omissions, many of them in the middle of words. Another common practice which contributes to poor speech is sound substitution. We have all heard idea changed to ider, library to Iliberry, little to lille, butter to buder, calling to cawing. Words like little, water, butter, can easily be said correctly if the tip of the tongue is made to touch the teeth ridge back of the upper teeth to say the t. The Class Leader's Speech Naturally, much of the success of Relief Society class leaders depends upon adequate preparation, but the way they speak, and their voices, can have much to do with their success in teaching. The droning, monotonous voice can put an audience to sleep. The class leader who speaks too rapidly and runs_ her words together will make it difficult for her audience to understand her, and they are likely to get off on a train of thought of their own and miss the major part of what the class leader is trying to say. A shrill or raspy voice may make an audience nervous or annoyed, even physically uncomfortable. 'The whining or weak voice may arouse the sympathy of the class, and instead of listening to what is being said, they will be thinking, "Poor soul, why does she do it if it is such a burden to her?" These voices are not hopeless. If class leaders become aware of the kind of voices they have by having tape recordings made, and then begin to practice better speech, much improvement can be made in a relatively short time. 'This, however, must bea consistent, constant effort. 185 MARCH 1963 A pleasant voice helps to make a pleasing personality. The person whose voice is vibrant with enthusiasm and warmth, who has good round tones, good resonance, and speaks distinctly is the one who will most likely be an outstanding class leader, provided she has made careful preparation of each lesson, has faith in divine guidance, and love in her heart for her class and the lesson she is teaching. Part of adequate preparation is to understand the meaning of all the words used and to learn to pronounce them correctly. Another essential of good speech and good conversation is knowing how to be a good listener. We should give the other person a chance to talk, then listen to what he has to say, and try to grasp the meaning. 'Too many people are ready to pounce upon a pause, if the speaker merely takes a long breath. Then they continue with their own train of thought without any reference to what has been said. It would be well to remember what Demosthenes said, "A_ vessel is known by its sound, whether it be cracked or not; so men are proved by their speech, whether they be wise or foolish." The Telephone Voice A special kind of speaking is over the telephone. It is necessary to speak slowly and distinctly. Don't hold the mouthpiece too close to the mouth, and don't shout. If you do, you may annoy the person to whom you are speaking. When one makes a call to another, she should remember that she is interrupting the other person who may be doing something very important or rushing for an appointment or a meeting. Tell who you are immediately and come directly to your message. Since young children like to answer the telephone, they should be taught to do it properly. Courtesy and thoughtfulness on the telephone are just as much a part of good training as face to face conversation. Boy Wandering Zara Sabin A scarce-two boy with a red wheelbarrow Plodding up the path Stops stock-still to watch a sparrow At the broad bird bath, Traipses on all eager-earnest; Then, on trusty toes, Lured aside by loveliness, Stoops to smell a rose. 186 MB:--. EVA MACARAEG MACAPAGAL, who has a medical degree from the University of Santa Tumas, is the First Lady of the Philippines, wife of President Diosdado Macapagal. Mother of two children, and an accomplished homemaker, Mrs. Macapagal contributes much time and energy to the health and economic welfare of the people of her country, being especially interested and helpful in projects of economic development. YRA KEEN, associate professor of paleontology and curator of malacology at Stanford University, California, is the author of a publication heralded by scientists as one of the most outstanding in its field, entitled "Marine Molluscan Genera of Western North America." One of a very few women trained in this field of science, Professor Keen has achieved a high rank for her accuracy and scholarship. She teaches Biological Oceanography at Stanford. IRSTEN FLAGSTAD, one of the most famous singers of Wagner's soprano roles, died December 9, 1962 in Oslo, Norway. LANCHE KENDALL McKEY, a Latter-day Saint, and a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has recently published a book of collected poems and verse plays called House of Dreams (Pageant Press). A daughter of Utah pioneers, Mrs. McKey achieved outstanding success as an actress under the name of Blanche Kendall, working with such leading men as J. H. Stoddart and William McKey, who later became her husband. ARGARET E. MURIE is the author of an unusually interesting travel book Two in the North, which recounts with "rare talent and sensitivity" three journeys which she made with her husband Olaus J. Murie into "the wild frontiers" of Alaska. The book, which describes in vivid detail the Koyukuk River Valley, the Old Crow River, and the Sheenjek Valley in the Brooks Range, is illustrated by Mr. Murie, a distinguished artist and naturalist. Mrs. Murie first went to Alaska with her parents when she was nine years old. She was the first woman t) graduate from the University of Alaska. Her present home is Moose, Wyoming, in the Jackson Hole country. 187 EDITORIAL Willis Earl Spafford EARTFELT sympathy is extended to President Belle S. Spafford and her family in the death of her husband, Willis Earl Spafford, who passed away unexpectedly Saturday, January 26, 1963, from a heart attack. Brother Spafford was born in Provo, Utah, November 14, 1891, a son of Willis K. And Elizabeth Ann Stubbs Spafford. He was educated in Provo city schools and at Brigham Young University. He served as a missionary for the Church in South Africa. On March 21, 1921, he married Belle Smith in the Salt Lake Temple. A son and a daughter blessed this union, Earl S. Spafford, Salt Lake City, Utah, and Mrs. Mary S. Kemp (Mrs. Clarence W. Kemp) Chicago, Illinois. Also surviving are eight grandsons and a granddaughter. Brother Spafford was former deputy collector for the United States Treasury Department, and was employed in that department for twenty- - seven years. Only those who have been closely associated with Sister Spafford in the years of her presidency can appreciate the support Brother Spafford has been to her in her calling. Faithfully, he has called each week day for 'her, and they have spent the noon hour together. He has subordinated his personal feelings at all times for the furtherance of her calling. He was a modest man, with deep humility and of rare judgment. He was group leader of the high priests of his ward and ministered to them and their needs. He has left a rich heritage of obedience and devotion to the Church to his beloved wife, loving children, and devoted grandchildren whom he delighted to serve. Relief Society sisters throughout the world extend their love and sympathy to their great leader, President Spafford. They remember her at this time with sisterly compassion and pray that she will be comforted and receive strength from the Heavenly Father for the time of earthly parting. 188 Balle S. Spafford, President Mferianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Loutse W. Madsen, Second Counselor The Heritage of Relief Society MS? S of many years have fallen on Nauvoo, and more than a century has passed since a group of faithful and devoted women felt an urgent need to "combine means and efforts" into a pattern of directed enlightenment and service. Their purposes and their desires were reported to the Prophet Joseph Smith. His answer will long be remembered, for the words have been cherished over the generations. ""Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord.... And I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood." The meaning and the spirit of that and subsequent meetings still endure and have spread to many lands — the counsel of the Prophet proclaiming a pathway to "better days" — the day and the time of women's advancement and organized service. In that time in 1842 the yearnings of women for fulfillment were given eternal direction. 'The desires placed in their hearts began a timc of realization. For every woman in every land wishes to develop herself, her gifts, her personality, and to use the brief years of earth life as a time of continual enlightenment; every woman has within her the desire to serve others — to minister unto those in need; and women everywhere ponder in their hearts the meaning of eternity. So it was that Relief Society was given to women as a choice and precious gift for themselves, for safe keeping as a heritage, and to be a treasured legacy for their daughters. Those footsteps that traced a pathway to and from Relief Society meetings in Nauvoo, those words of tenderness and compassion spoken long ago marked the changing pathway for women. The spirit and message and the works of ministration lighted the shadowed circles of the camps of exodus, glowed with the morning light upon the wagon trains slowly discovering a pathway in the cleft of the mountains. 'The saints in the valleys of the wilderness received the kindly comfort and the helping hands of Relief Society women, although the full and perfect organization awaited the development and the application of the pattern of Nauvoo, and its large intent. 'The poplar-lined streets of villages sheltered in the desert knew the footsteps of faithful women walking to and from their meetings, visiting the 189 MARCH 1963 families in the wards, walking swiftly to homes of trouble and care. Wagons and surreys and_ saddle horses brought the ranch women to their meetings. And in a time of cities many new — organizations appeared in states and territories, and in the mission field the faithful sisterhood learned the pattern of individual progress and group co-operation and _ service. They learned that many hands make light work and that many women working together can lift heavy burdens, not possible to women serving as individuals. The footsteps and the words and the pattern from Nauvoo have spread to the far corners of the earth, to the lovely green islands, to the great continents — to many lands among many people. As the stakes and missions of the Church have increased their borders and their numbers, so have the organizations of Relief Society become multiplied, and the message that once was proclaimed to a few is now the living pattern for thousands who rejoice and remember and express their gratitude. The blessings, opportunities, and responsibilities of Relief Society must be explained, exemplified, and patterned in the lives of those who in time will be affiliated and receive the blessings and the uplifting re sponsibilities. Many members of the sisterhood have been heard to say "Relief Society has everything," and this is true in the sense that individuals and the organization as a whole have received, from the beginning, a steadfast though flexible pattern, guided and directed by those who have the power to speak and act in the name of the Lord. Relief Society is more than a fellowship, more than groups of women studying art or literature Or music or social science, more than a group devoted to learning the ways of ideal motherhood and homemaking, more than an organization seeking to learn the enduring truths of theology. Relief Society partakes of the qualities of all of these — and then is added upon, for it has been given a sacred and everlasting pattern. Let us speak of this and tell it as glad tidings to those who are new among us and those who are seekers after the blessings that are a living part of the beloved heritage. Let all our words be strong and beautiful, for we are the present guardians of a great and precious treasure. —V. P. C. NDEX FOR 19602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AVAILABLE OPIES of the 1962 index of The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1962 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 239.) 190 y, \. Delightful way to spend a voung kind of birthday is to have a "Dake" party. The kindergarten age is ideal for such a party. Children love to feel bigger than they are, and at this type of party they are giantsized. Every small child enjoys helping his mother bake, and this can sometimes be quite a trial to a | busy mother. At a "bake" party, the children can literally put a "finger in every pie." A bake party, to be successful, must be carefully planned. Six children, about five years old, are. A sufficient number to manage. Enthusiasm for the party is developed well in advance by invitations which might be written on baker's hats drawn on construction paper: Friday's "bake" day at our house, And Mother needs a crew To make pies and cakes and rolls And even cookies, too. My birthday we will celebrate And bakers we'll become. Each thing we make is ours to keep, And we'll take our bake goods home. |The party will begin at nine. At noon we'll have a lunch. Please come with hands and face well scrubbed And join this baker's bunch. In order for the small, purposeful guests to achieve, certain advance preparations are important. Baker's hats and aprons serve to turn the children into gourmet chefs and to protect the party clothes as well. Instructions for the apron and hat: Apron / 1. Cut out of unbleached muslin the 'apron according to the diagram. Allow enough additional border to hem. 1/" 2. Cut the shoulder strap 18" by 3%". Fold in two, seam, and turn inside out. Sew to one side of the apron as illustrated. Leave the other side free so that it can be adjusted by pin to the size of the guest. 3. The side ties must be 32" long so they can tie in front as real baker's aprons do. 4. The pocket is placed in the center of the bib section of the apron. 5- The apron may be trimmed with embroidered figures shaped from cookie cutters. Hat 1. Cut a circle out of unbleached muslin 21 inches in diameter. Gather the edges to fit the band (about 20 inches). 2. Cut a band 21" by 5%". Interline the band with buckram or other stiffening. Hem the lower edge and join the ends with a %" seam. 3. Baste the gathered circle to the edge of the band, nght sides facing. Then sew on the machine. 4. Embroider a cookie character in the center of the hat. 5- If necessary, adjust the head size to the guest by a small safety pin at the band seam. Each successful baker needs the proper implements. Small _participants call for small size pie tins, angel food cake pans, loaf tins, and rolling pins, which can be taken home, of course. The use of Mother's cookie sheets and cookie cutters is allowed, however. A variety of recipes gives the party a certain allure. Banana cream pie, cup cakes, angel food cake, cloverleaf rolls, sugar cookies, and a batch of fudge keep the guests busy for an entire morning. Childish impatience will not wait for full preparation during the party. Well in advance, with the aid of cake mixes, the cup cakes and angel food cakes should be baked. Do not remove the angel food cakes from the pans. A batch of fudge can be divided among the six wee loaf tins. 'The freezer will keep things fresh until party day. The night before the party, the dough for the sugar cookies and cloverleaf rolls can be made and refrigerated. Prior to the start of the party, the pie dough should be mixed, the cream filling prepared, and also the cake icings. HE children are greeted with the aprons and hats, and led to a wellscrubbed kitchen table. 'The party begins without delay: 1. Each child is given a ball of the previously refrigerated roll dough. The children are instructed to roll small balls of the dough with their hands, placing three balls in each section of a muffin tin. Soon the six rolls for each child are completed. 2. While the rolls are rising, the cookie dough can be distributed. With the bit-size rolling pins on the well-floured table, the children roll and cut their cookies. During this period the rolls are baked. 3. With the working area still floured, it is an excellent time to begin 194 the angel food cakes and decorating them with candies. Also, at this period, the fudge is carefully cut by the bakers into serving pieces. 5. The high peak of the party is the completing of the pies. A layer of filling, a half of a banana sliced carefully, another layer of filling, and a meringue topping ( prepared as the children work) make the pies ready 6. The concluding activity is the decorating of the cup cakes. The licking of fingers, sticky faces, and the tasting of various trims are al] permissible at this point. Each child has a birthday candle for his favorite cup cake. Four to six cup cakes should be given to each guest. The party should begin about nine a. M. In order to complete the catastrophe. Such a party as this will prove to be a talking point for many days and a memory for many years. 195 Sewing Success in Monument Park 11th Ward Salt Lake City, Utah VERY Relief Society, in my opinion, should, and could conduct a sewing course. It can be a most interesting and stimulating class in the organization. For the teacher who has enthusiasm and _ appreciation for the advantages of home sewing, the achievement can be most rewarding, and the women who learn to sew receive great joy in their new accomplishments. Many women become interested in the full program of Relief Society, and eventually become members, by first participating in the sewing Classes. At first, imterest in a sewing project may require some stimulation. In our 2 Helen Lach, Instructor ward, before beginning the course, we displayed completed articles of home sewing made by accomplished seamstresses and made a detailed comparison of price and quality of workmanship between_ the home-sewed clothing and ready-made articles. We emphasized such important considerations as well-made seams, hems, buttonholes, facings, collars, and other fine points of sewing and tailoring. The benefits of sewing projects for mothers of young children were outlined, and it was explained that many women begin their careers as seamstresses by making simple clothing for their children. At the left: Muumuu made of polished Polynesian cotton, with plain polished ton ins itern was drafted by the instructor from an original Polynesian muyumuy. Erchased. Made by Mrs. Ila Nelson. Similar patterns ca The muumuu has three frog fasteners down the front. Cost $3.25, including pattern.: Center: Child's basic dress made of polished cotton and trimmed with _ buttons. Puf ves are edged with narrow white rick-rack braid; white cotton collar on dark red dress. C€ including pattern. Several dresses similar to this one were made in the classes. At the right: Black dress with brocade top and gathered chiffon skirt with taffeta underskirt. » Cost $6.00, including pattern. Made by Mrs. Ila Nefson. At the left: Model: Miss Kathleen Lach Wool doubleknit (sweater-knit) coat, fully lined with rayon taffeta; double-breasted. Cost $3.00, including pattern. Center: Peacock-blue colored wool two-piece suit; skirt and jacket fully lined with sheath lining; flap pockets and covered buttons on jacket. Model: Mrs. Aenona Crocker At the right: White wool sheath dress, fully lined with sheath lining. Cost $15.00, including pattern. Mrs. Olive Nilson material. Model: After the advantages of learning to sew had been fully explained and _ illustrated, the membership in the courses increased so rapidly that it was difficult to provide the careful instruction needed. Several women reported that their husbands and families had become enthusiastic over the sewing completed in the Relief Society courses, and schoolgirls were proud to wear the skirts and dresses which their mothers had made. Some of the students learned, for the first time, the importance of stitching a hem correctly, sewing on buttons expertly, and making simple alterations. Household clothing _ budgets seemed to be much more ample, and the families of the "'sewing sisters" enjoyed also the advantage of being well dressed. Some women were able to reduce the clothing budget as much as one half or more. It was found that special help in the Cost $5.90, including pattern. Has tie belt of selfselection of fabrics was needed. Instruction in methods of examining different kinds of fabrics to evaluate their quality was given, and the women were advised regarding the proper width of material to buy for economy in cutting a particular pattern. Also, many women found that used clothing could be laundered or dry cleaned and made into new articles. It was pointed out that mill end sales and sales of short lengths often provide bargains in purchasing materials, but the customer should use care in buying large amounts of material, as some _ fabrics deteriorate rapidly, and others must be very carefully stored to prevent moth damage. Some fabrics may become out-dated before the homemaker can find time for sewing them. Each woman was given individual help in selecting her pattern and material before she started her work in the sewing class. 197 INCE most 'of the articles made in the Monument Park Eleventh Ward Relief Society sewing courses were constructed from simple, basic designs, the finding of appropriate patterns was not difficult. Several of the women used the same pattern, and others either drafted or altered _patterns to suit their needs. Many of the patterns were drafted or altered by the instructor. Our sewing classes are conducted under the general supervision of Kay Sullivan, work meeting leader, and the instructor is Helen Lach. 'Two classes are held each Thursday, forenoon and afternoon. The morning class begins at nine and lasts until twelve, and the afternoon class begins at one and lasts until four. Enrollment is limited to three or four women, unless the group is composed of experienced sewers who require less instruction. During the noon hour, when regular class instruction is not being given, specific help is provided for women who are not enrolled in the classes. They bring their individual problems to the instructor and receive directions for remodeling, inserting zippers, finishing seams, and other problems which arise in the process of home sewing. In order to accommodate our. Present long waiting list of applicants for the sewing courses, each woman is limited to making three articles. Then, if she wishes to continue and increase her sewing skills, she is permitted to re-enroll, and her name is placed on the waiting list. Usually, a two-piece suit can be completed in four instruction periods. Some of the women who have finished one or more of the regular sewing courses return for help during the noon period, and in this way they are enabled to complete other articles in their homes. In one year, fifty-three beautiful articles were completed in our sewing courses. These included suits, coats, children's clothing, men's and boys' clothing, dresses, and ensembles. In one combined class project twenty-two muumuus were made. Beautifully sewed, and a delight to wear, these muumuus gave the women much satisfaction, and they were pleased with the colorful materials and the unique designs. In the mid-year a successful fashion show was held, displaying the completed articles. 198 At bottom: Two-piece suit in basket-weave turquoise-colored wool; acetate crepe lining was used for the jacket and sheath lining for the skirt. The jacket has tailored slashed front and is trimmed with crystal buttons; the tailored buttonholes were made in the sewing class. The skirt has inset pockets in the gathered front panel. Cost $9.00, including pattern. Made by Mrs.. Shirley Latteier At the top, left: Black wool sheath dress with tie belt. The belt is trimmed with fringe made from silk embroidery floss. Cost $2.00, including pattern, Made by Mrs. Ila Nelson At the top, right: Fire-wagon red, doubleknit sheath dress and jacket ensemble; crepe lining used for the jacket and sheath lining for the dress. Cost $15.00, including pattern. Made by Mrs. Jackie Anderson At the left: Jumper in wide-wale, olive-green corduroy; white cotton blouse. Note pleat and stitching down the front of the jumper. Blouse has a bow tie. Cost $3.00, including pattern. Model: Miss Kathleen Lach Center: Ensemble, dress made of peach and white striped seersucker, and coat made of nubby shantung lined with white taffeta. Model: Mrs. Olive Nilsen Cost $9.00, including pattern. At the right: Two-piece suit made of Copenhagen blue basket-weave wool. Jacket lined with rayon crepe and skirt lined with sheath lining. Cost $15.00, including pattern. Model: Mrs. Fern England Suggestions to Keep in Mind When Conducting a Sewing Class: 1. Carry on the class under the direction of the ward presidency, and work closely with the work meeting leader. 2. Do not enroll more women than can be adequately instructed and given enough individual attention to retain and increase their interest. 3. Provide a nursery, if necessary. 4. Have the classroom ready and all equipment set up. 5. Regularity and promptness in beginMonument Park Eleventh Ward Reli Work Director Counselor, Echo Bean; Edu leader, Kay Sullivan. Ning and closing classes should be strictly observed. 6. Discourage visitors or interruptions during the instruction period. 7. Avoid any comparison or competition in skill or time required for completing articles. Rather, encourage the mastering of each step and strive for beauty in the finished garment. 8. See that each article is completely finished and properly pressed before it is taken home. Ef Society Officers: Rhea Stucki, President: cation Counselor, Alta Glade; work meeting Monument Park Stake Relief Society President: Henrietta Young. Photographs and Transparencies by Hal Rumel. 199 Pictures for the Home| Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young Zola]. McGhie | Member, General Board of Relief Society 200 aa a good look at your pictures. Are they a constant joy or a jarring disturbance? Pictures are of such importance that they can make or break a room's atmosphere. Therefore, they should be chosen, framed, and hung as attractively as possible. Examine your pictures carefully. Discard those not good for your purpose. Never hang a picture you don't like; put it away fora time. Your taste may change. Good pictures do not go out of style. Key your pictures to your scheme of decoration and display them to best advantage. Don't be ashamed to admit that many pictures declared good are not to your taste and will not fit into your decor. Even your favorite picture cannot survive an inappropriate frame, tasteless surroundings, bad lighting, poor hanging; and yet inexpensive lithographs, arranged with skill, can give life to the whole room. Matting, Mounting, Framing Pictures Mats are placed at the front of a picture to enlarge and enhance its appearance, improve its proportions, or relate it to the room. As a rule, they are 3" wide at top and sides, and 3/2" wide at the bottom. If you aren't sure, cut paper to try. Mats may be white or colored. Mountings are placed behind the picture. General Indications for Various Types of Pictures 1. Original prints in black and white, such as etchings or lithographs, are usually matted in white or cream and framed with glass and narrow mountings of natural or black wood. Gold lines are sometimes added.. Onginal color prints are usually put in proportionately larger mats with wider frames, Glass is always used and simple natural wood frames or painted finishes. 3. Water colors are usually put in proportionately larger mats with wider frames. Glass is always used and simple natural wood frames or painted finishes. 4. Pastels, similar to water colors, are matted only when necessary. WN PICTURES FOR THE HOME 5. Oils are framed closely except for occasional use of extra wide inserts. Picture and frame should be closely related. 6. Photographs may gain importance by matting. Ordinarily they are framed close to the picture with glass, in natural wood, gold, or silver. 7. Fine reproductions of oils, water colors, and prints are framed to resemble their originals. Arranging and Hanging Pictures If a picture is worth hanging, it ls worth hanging well. Grouping pictures is usually more interesting and dramatic than spotting them. 'There are two kinds of balance to consider in arranging a group of pictures. 1. Symmetrical Balance Pictures are usually the same size and subject, matted alike, and framed alike. This arrangement is good over a_bookcase, on a stairway, or hall. Pictures should relate to the space, the furniture, and the room. 2. Asymmetrical Balance Pictures with unusual shapes, sizes, old, new, or combined with bric-a-brac, may be arranged in interesting ways. This type of hanging takes more skill, but is more interesting. If You Do It Yourself: 1. Collect the right tools and equipment. 2. Learn how to use them. Learn various ways of finishing. Learn correct and simple methods of decorating. 5. Inexpensive mounts can be made of wallboard with a covering of shellac to give them a glazed protective finish. 6. Steel pins, phonograph needles, or angle hooks may be used to hang pictures. Soft pencil or chalk rubbed on the frame eyes will mark places to hang. 7. Passe-partouts (pieces of cardboard, wood, or other material with the center part cut out for the placement of a picture) are often used effectively for oe 201 MARCH 1963 small pictures or groups. They may consist of binding tapes covering picture, mat, and glass. 'They are good for use with antique costume pictures and flower or bird prints. Mats may be plain, French, or black with gold lines. Suggestions for Experimentation Small delicate water colors in off-white frames or small family photos attached to velvet or ribbon around a mirror in a bedroom or hall. A collection of small pictures or snapshots of odd sizes and shapes in one large frame, matted with wallpaper, is effective in a den or family room. Coins or other interesting objects may also be used. A group of like frames and mats with removable panels that can be changed from time to time hung at eye level above book shelves. Groups of plates in a dining area. Do's and Dont's Do 1. Hang pictures with blind wire concealed. 2. Use rings at top and bottom of small pictures to keep them hanging straight. 3. Use discretion in choosing pictures for use with patterned wallpaper. When hanging picture on heavily patterned wallpaper, use good sized plain mats or contrasting color to make _ pictures stand out. 4. Keep picture in proportion to piece of furniture over which it hangs. Don't overpower the picture or the furniture. 5. Prevent frames from marking walls by gluing cork liners from bottle caps on the bottom corners. 6. Arrange groups on the floor before hanging them on the wall. 7. Hang pictures at eye level or a little below, depending on space and effect desired. (Most people hang pictures too high.) Don''t 1. Hang floral prints on floral wallpaper. 2. Hang pictures on scenic wallpaper. 202 Use of the Relief Society Magazine in the Work Meeting ' up Oey /\VAGAZINE coma te, Une aut, of the Display From Mesa Stake Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young Articles on display were made from patterns published in the issues listed below Hot pads from "Holders for Pans" — September 1960, page 587. "A Strawberry Pin Cushion" — October 1960, page 662. "Christmas Aprons'"" — October 1960, page 658.. Quilting pictures from '"'Let's Learn to Quilt" — September 1961, page 591. Pine cone dolls — "Holiday Table'? — December 1961, page 827. Holiday apron —"Aprons for Mr. And Mrs. Santa Claus" — November 10961, fe /47- Worm pull toy — "Christmas Gifts" — November 1961, page 742. Toy duck — "Stuffed Toys Are Delightful" — March 1962, page 211. Candlesticks — "Make It Out of Imagination" — February 1962, page 102. "Toddler's Cover-Apron" — June 1962, page 438. Floral arrangements were made up using directions from: "Flower Arrangements for Springtime" — March 1951, page 177. "Whys, Wherefores, and Fun with Green Plants'"" — March 1960, page 181. Recipes included: Rolls from "Say 'Merry Christmas' With Fancy Yeast Rolls' — December 1959, page 823. Easy filled cookies — "Recipes for a Picnic" — July 1961, page 456. Carrot cake — 'Something Different for Dinner'? — April 1961, page 256. "Candy for Your Easter Basket'? — April 1962, page 274. "Homemade Candy for Winter Evenings" — January 1962, page 36. 203 ARTS AND CRAFTS Ribbons and oses Jennie R. Scott Member, General Board of Relief Society wide variety of arts and crafts made in Relief Society were on display at the work meeting department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference last October. These displays emphasized the originality and ingenuity of the Relief Society members in fashioning useful and beautiful articles for the home. Ribbons and Roses An umbrella (small frame covered with net and decotated with roses) or a heart centerpiece would be attractive for a bridal shower or an announcement party. Aprons can be decorated with the roses, and favors made for place cards. Small sprays for decorating packages, jars, and candles add interest and beauty. Nosegays for graduating girls, bouquets for bridesmaids, and even the bridal bouquet can be made from these lovely roses. A corsage costs very little and is a nice remembrance. A small living fir tree decorated with ribbons and roses for office or apartment is most attractive at Christmas time, as are wreaths and a kissing bell. A ribbon rose on a tray for the sick room would help to brighten the morning for someone who is ill. 204 FOR WORK MEETING RIBBON ROS,. PORTLAND STAI '~ <2 Color Photograph by Lorenzo §. Young The roses can be made from any width ribbon. — So-called number g ribbon (1% inch) is the most popular and will make about 4 two-inch diameter rose. The best type of ribbon, and also the most inexpensive, is regular florist acetate Tayon ribbon. It can be bought by the bolt (100 yards) at about $1.60, "Fach little rose costs about one-half cent. 205 Procedure Cut a piece of No. 9 ribbon about 20 inches long. Have the wrong side of the mbbon toward you. Fold the righthand end of the ribbon at an angle, leaving about an inch tail (Figure 1). Roll the fold about 3 or 4 turns very tightly, to form a core for the center of the rose (Figure 2). Next, fold the mbbon from the top back away from you with your left hand forming an angle (Figure 3). Roll core in one or two loose turns, almost to the end of the fold. Again fold the top edge of ribbon back, forming a new angle — notice it is the opposite side of the ribbon this time (Figure 4). Roll the core in loosely about a_ half turn, then make a new fold. These folds should not be more than 1% inches long, depending on the width of the ribbon. Continue in this manner until you have the desired size rose, or until only an inch of ribbon is left (Figures 5 and 6). To finish, tuck the end piece down as neatly as possible and wire the tails with florist wire (Figure 7). The ends of the nbbon may need to be trimmed. Next, tape the stem with floratape and place a rose calyx under the flower. Place a leaf behind the flower to frame the rose. Wreath or Heart of Ribbon Bows and Roses Materials needed: Styrofoam circle or heart No. 16 or 18 wire No. G floral acetate ribbon To make ribbon bows, begin with shiny side of ribbon toward you. Grasp in middle and crumple slightly, looping ribbon back away from you, twisting as it comes up to middle each time so as to keep shiny side on outside of bow. 206 Bridal Bouquets and Corsages Bridal bouquets are enlargements of the small corsage. Groupings of single roses and leaves are placed one below the other, usually in groups of threes or fives, with as many as the size needed demands. Floral wax wrap secures the roses and leaves to the wire stems. Bows made like the ones used in the wreath are placed either in the middle of the grouping or at the base to complete the corsage or bouquet. In the bridal bouquet, long streamers may be left on the ends of the bows and knotted here and there. Covered millinery wire works very well in the forming of bows and making of roses, but when putting them together a heavier wire is needed. Either No. 16 or No. 18 wire works very well. A nosegay may be made by clustering bows and roses in a circular pattern and adding plastic lace backing. 'Tiny nosegays make lovely place cards at announcement or birthday parties. An attractive table arrangement can be made by placing a large candle in the center of a compote and surrounding it with bows and roses, with a wreath of roses and leaves twined up the candle itself. A small hole cut in a base of styrofoam can be used to support the candle. Florist clay will hold the candle in place (see below). The basic small corsage gives a finishing touch to a gift package for any occasion. A single rose and leaf glued or tied on a glass canister filled with homemade cookies or candies makes a cheerful gift for shut-ins. (Table display — pattern for ribbon roses and ideas for their use by Sue Ballantyne, Portland Stake) (Illustrations for Ribbons and Roses Gloria Hermanson, Bountiful Stake) 207 Make a Zabaton Jennie R. Scott Member, General Board of Relief Society HE tables marked "This and That From Here and There" displayed a_ number of interesting items. The large pillow in the center of this picture is a Zabaton, or Oriental pillow, which can be used on the floor or on a couch or bed. It is made from a square of material of any size. Usually those for the floor are made from a 36-inch square or larger — a 36-inch square of material makes a 25-inch square zabaton. The zabaton © ls a favorite of decorators and is an excellent way to use remnants. « BE ree F; tet ' —. BP - 4 4 Set, -. Tf Jang a ta a aK Se oR dy ene Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young Material needed: A square of material — bright print, velveteen, drapery material, pure silk. Floss for tassels. Cotton bat, dacron bat, or celucloud bat (synthetic cotton) for filling. Use 1 pound of batting for an 18-inch square, 17% pounds for a 27-inch square, and 3 pounds or more for a 36-inch square of material. 208 Directions: Fold square in half, right sides together, and sew up both ends (Figure 1). Open up. Place sewed seams together in center, and pin. Sew from outside toward center about 4 to 6 inches on unsewed sides, leaving center open (Figure 2) Place seams side down on the table, still wrong side out. Unfold filling and pinch off a piece that is once again as large as the pillow on each side, and place it on top of the pillow (Figure 3). Fold the remainder of the filling so it is the same size as the pillow and set on top of the filling over the pillow, being careful that there are no holes and shallow places in the filling and it feels equal and smooth all over. Now fold the overlapping filling evenly over on all four sides so that the edges are rounded and the same size as the pillow. Some of the filling may be pinched off the p~------~~~-7 comers, if desired, so they will not be too bulky (Figure 4). | Carefully turn pillow and filling over so that the pillow is! Now on top of the filling with the seams side up.; ' Thread 2 yards of floss through darning needle. Use | thread double. Do not knot. Starting about half way down from the center of one _ seam, stitch long basting stitches % inch away from the machine stitch down to the edge of the material, catching one thickness of material only. Pull needle through and pass it through the filling once only 2 inches back from the corner of the filling. Make a loop around the filling and enter the material at the edge on the opposite side of the machine stitching and % inch from it and baste toward the center until opposite the starting point, catching one thickness of material only. Clip off needle, leaving plenty of basting thread at beginning and ending of basting (Figure 5). Repeat process on each corner. Turn pillow again with filling now on the top. Roll up in a ball holding each corner and turn pillow right side out through the open seam, so that the filling is on the inside. Press filling toward the corners. With needle pull out basting threads on each side of the seams toward the last stitch from the corner, leaving the last stitch in. Pull on the threads, working the filling well into corners. Tie in double knot, leaving long ends on. Repeat process with all corners. Make tassels by winding floss around cardboard cut the size you wish the tassels to be (Figure 6). Remove cardboard and tie uncut ends to long threads left on pillow corners. Wind floss around the top to make a head and tie. Cut other end to make tassel (Figure 7). Slip stitch the open seam on the back (Figure 8). Sew on round or square button on the right side with cross-stitch or make tassel for center, or just cross-stitch. A button round or square can be made by covering with material a piece of stiff cardboard padded with a thin piece of cotton. (Zabaton Pattern —- Zola McGhie, Bonneville Stake) (Illustrations for Zabaton — Gloria Hermanson, Bountiful Stake) MAKE A ZABATON SEW 2 PILLOW FILLING i. CONTEMPLATION In order to improve the mind, we ought less to learn, than to contemplate (Descartes). AVE you ever thought of inviting a group of friends to your home during a snowstorm to gaze at the beauty of the snowflakes? Undoubtedly, this may sound like a bizarre idea. Noting the intricate pattern of each individual snowflake, however, could be one of life's richest, esthetic rewards. To be thoroughly appreciated, the snowflakes should be watched under a light. If the guests have on dark coats, and the snowflakes alight on this background, the magical laciness of each flake can be more thoroughly enjoyed. Since most of us have forgotten the joy that comes through observing quiet beauty, such an evening may sound Bohemian. But, in Japan, parties to watch a full moon rise, or to view the first blossoms on a tree, are common. Emotions, which are seldom expressed, stir within the guests as they watch the wondrous light of the moon evolve from a small lemon slice into a luminous sphere. 'The moon's slow ascent is watched in silence. When it is fully risen, the host often distributes pencil and paper so that each guest may compose a poem telling of his response as he watched the graceful sight. Henry David Thoreau felt this inner need for developing the illusive 210 act of contemplation. He felt it so strongly that he spent two years living in the wilds of Walden Pond. He once said, "The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation." Thoreau, individualist as he was, escaped any desperation he may have felt by his intimate communtication with nature. He wasn't content to live as most of us do, by mere actions. He wanted to learn about life; he wanted to understand and enjoy life. He once said, "I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life." Thoreau felt he could best savor every morsel of life by disentangling himself from the cumbersome material things that cloud our vision and make life's goals at times seem hazy. 'To achieve this goal, he lived primitively, surviving on the food that he alone provided for himself. His fare was simple: berries that he gathered, or game that he shot. His home was a hut that he built at a cost of $28.12%, where the light from heaven filtered in through the cracks twenty-four hours a day. N the endlessly oscillating world of today, complete isolation of this nature would be impractical, if not impossible, but there should be a brief period daily when we can be alone to listen to the yearnings of our hearts. 'This period should be Is Realization a time of quiet evaluation and selfdiscovery. We might listen to classical music, study a painting, or read a fine piece of literature. The important thing is the thought processes that accompany these acts, not merely to look with our eyes, but to understand with our souls. Many of our great philosophers have found their period of contemplation can best be accomplished while walking. The Chinese have a wonderful proverb that says: "Man who walks through countryside sees much more than man who runs.' Sometimes we become guilty of running through life, trying to accomplish so much that we die before we ever have a chance to live. Try escaping from the hubbub of the crowded streets by visiting a secluded hillside, a grove, or a meadow. Learn to pause and absorb the beauty of your surroundings. Study each flower, shrub, or insect rather than merely glancing at these marvelous microcosms. Observe how many leaves a plant Joan H. Haskins has, try to determine the exact shade of the flower, and note the structure of the center of the bud. We go through life snatching fragments of beauty, never pausing to study its intricate forms. The ancient Greeks practiced the art of contemplation in its highest degree. Aristotle, in his book on Ethics, tells us that the activity which surpasses all others in blessedness, is that of contemplation. Ralph Waldo Emerson, great naturalist, felt that all things are answerable in nature if we but seek and study. Emerson's comment, "If a man be alone, let him look at the stars," stresses the need that he felt for solitude and for an examination of the universe. Certainly, through contemplation, we become aware that it is life's spiritual values that supersede its material ones. As children of God, it is our role to develop an understanding and appreciation for all of his creations so that we can live in harmony with them and with ourselves. Announcing the Special Short Story Issue HE April 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding short stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "Strange Bond," by Thelma Grube. "Strictly for Silence," by Dorothy Clapp Robinson "A Load of Hay," by Ilene H. Kingsbury "If at First," by Ruth G. Rothe 211 EVENTIDE Frances C. Yost: | es Sharpton glanced at _) the clock. It was getting late and Charles hadn't come home. She shouldn't have let the children talk her into staying up to see their daddy. "Some women are just plain lucky to have a man on an eighthour day. My Charlie puts in ten to twelve hours, and I put in an hour before he leaves, and two hours after he gets home. And that isn't counting the night shift when the children call for water or have a stomachache." Connie stopped short. She didn't want to start talking to herself. Just then the door opened and Charlie walked in. Larry and Mary rushed to their father and wrapped their arms and legs about him. Poor, tired Charlie, he looked as if he had been ensnared by an octopus. She was proud to be the mother of twins, but no one who hadn't had the experience of rearing twins could possibly believe the mischief two the same age could concoct. Charlie was smiling as he fondled the children, but when he looked up at Connie, she knew it had been one of those off days. She wouldn't ask how things had gone for him. It was best not to mention it. 'This salesman work on a commission was hard on a man, and for that matter hard on his wife. Occasionally there were good days, though they never balanced out the poor ones. 212 Charles dropped into a chair, yet he didn't relax. His feet were tapping the rug and his hands were tapping the arm rest. It was as if his feet were still beating the pavements, and his knuckles knocking on doors. "Please, Connie, get the children off to bed. I'm starved to death." "Yes, dear." Connie hurried Larry and 1 Mary up the stairway before her. Every bone in her legs ached. And the hardest part of the day was yet before her, getting the twins settled down for the night. If she had another time of it getting them asleep as she had last night! Connie sighed, thinking about it. Larry had started a pillow fight with a torn, leaky pillow and Connie figured she would be picking up feathers when snow fell next Christmas. Connie pulled a chair between the twin beds and sat down. It felt good to get off her feet. "Mother, read us a story." "It's too late, Mary." "But you promised," Larry chided. "IT read earlier in the evening. Have you forgotten?" Was it going to be another riot like last night? Connie promised herself she wouldn't think about last night. She must discipline her memory. Why was putting children to bed such a nightmare for her? When she was a child it had been a joy to drop off to sleep in her soft feather bed. She could almost feel her mother's cool hand on her forehead. What had she said...? "Connie, honey, you've been a good little girl all day today. You helped Mother every time with the dishes, and you threaded the needle when Mother's old eyes couldn't see the little needle's eye. You dusted the parlor ever so well. You were a little jewel all day long. Mother will sing a song or two, so close your eyes and rest. 'Go to sleep my pickaninny. It's time for a little child to rest.'" waar had her mother had at bedtime that Connie didn't have? Connie pondered the thought. Cooly and logically, Connie studied the problem in her mind. Like a hard rain on the windowpane, the difference struck Connie on her forehead. Her own mother had known the value of a lullaby. Lullabies seemed to be a forgotten art in this atomic age. Yet music had played an important part in the history of man. Why, even before earth life, according to the Good Book, the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. At Christ's birth, angels had come near the earth and sung peace on earth and joy to the world. How long had it been since she herself had even touched the keys on her own piano? She should be teaching the twins to sing. Vaguely, Connie remembered a great poet named Congreve had once said, "Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast, to soften rocks, or bend a knotted oak." EVENTIDE Why hadn't she tried a lullaby instead of all this fussing and jangling with the children every night? Now, when the children were toddlers was the time to instill an incipient love of music in her youngster's hearts. Connie reached her arms out, and put a cool hand on each overheated little forehead, as they lay in their twin beds on either side. Then she started singing softly. "Go to sleep, my pickaninny. It's time for little childs to rest. Daytime is over and night has just begun. Cuddle up to your Mammie's breast. I can hear the night birds calling. It's time for little childs to rest. The sandman's coming. Your Mammie's humming a Georgia lullaby." Connie followed it with another lullaby, then let her voice fade completely away. Both little children had dropped off into a deep sleep. She tiptoed softly from their room, and started down the stairway. Charles stood there at the foot of the stairway. He was smiling up at her. "Say, that was right pretty. It sort of relaxed me, sitting here as you sang to the children." Connie suddenly realized she, too, wasn't as upset and tense as she had been. She felt more relaxed and calmed down. Her lullaby had had a wonderful effect on the entire family. Connie smiled lovingly at Charles, and said, "Oh.". When she came to the last step where he was waiting for her, her lips were still rounded from the "oh," and he kissed her, lightly, but not too lightly. 213 The Power of Protein Flora H. Bardwell and Ethelwyn B. Wilcox Department of Food and Nutrition Utah State University NE of the best friends a () "body" has is protein — in fact, it makes up a large percentage of the total body. All that makes you — your skin, hair, eyes, nails, your muscles, are proteins. Most of all that makes you "go" — the blood, lymph, heart and lungs, tendons and muscles, ligaments, brains and nerves are also proteins. You are largely what protein has made you. You will probably become the result of the protein you enjoy in your food each day., Protein, next to water, is the most plentiful substance in the body. The proteins that make up this large per cent of the body are not there as fixed, unchanging substance, like building blocks deposited for a lifetime of use. 'They are in a constant state of exchange within the body tissues. Some protein molecules are always breaking down, and others are being built as replacements. This is why every day our intake of food must supply the necessary protein, even when we no longer need it for growth. Protein, in addition to building body tissues and muscle, regulates body processes and can also supply energy to the body when needed. If other sources of energy are available, protein will be used to carry out its own special functions of building and repairing tissues and 214 of regulating body functions. If other emergency sources are not available, the body will use protein for energy, thus depriving the muscles and other tissues of needed protein. Hence, a day's supply of food must necessarily include not only adequate protein, but also a balance of the other energy foods, the fats and carbohydrates. A third function of protein is its use for growth; however maintenance of body functions comes first in needs. If not enough protein is supplied by the diet for both growth and maintenance, growth is retarded. Hence, this provides another reason for maintaining sufficient protein every day. Proteins are made up of more simple substances called amino acids. 'There are eighteen amino acids which are used in different combinations in our common foods. These amino acids are linked together in the protein molecule much as the cars of a train are coupled together to make a freight or passenger train. In the body all food proteins are broken down into amino acids which are then rebuilt into specific body proteins using different combinations than occurred in the food. All of these amino acids are essential to life and health, but only eight must be completely formed in the food and ready for use. The others can be made in the body from ; "We ( 't Be Perfect" Christie Lund Coles F'TEN we hear someone justify his faults by saying, "Well, we can't be perfect. If we were perfect, we wouldn't be here. Nobody is perfect." And often we justify ourselves in the same way. It is so easy to make excuses, to find reasons for our imperfections and eae Yet, what did Jesus say? He said, "Be ye... Perfect, even as your Father... In heaven is perfect." Did he mean half-perfect, part good? Did he mean to be good on Sunday and disobedient the rest of the week? Did he mean to pay our tithes and offerings, but live as we please otherwise? Did he mean to indulge in our particular vices, saying, "So-and-so does worse than this"? I don't believe so. I suppose no one can be completely perfect within the limitations of the flesh, and under the pressures on all sides of us. But we can try. And, if we try hard enough, we will achieve just that much perfection. Right this moment we can start on the road to perfection. We can put the admonition, "Be ye perfect," in our hearts and work at it day after day, weeding out insidious little faults — the tendency to gossip, to make a slighting remark — and put virtues in their place. Even if the unfortunate things we say are true, we are saying the things we think, and it is time to start thinking of happier things for our own sake, as well as for that of our friends. We can nip a bad habit in the bud by thinking, I will not be dominated by this small thing. I will be free of it. We can start building up the positive side of the ledger, doing one small kindness a day, making a phone call, sending a card, a letter to someone shut in, or lonely, or ill. We can listen to someone else's troubles instead of talking of our own. We can give thanks for all our blessings, purifying ourselves by the act of voicing gratitude. We can pray unceasingly, and follow the inner promptings which whisper to all, if they will but listen to them. We can love more. We can forgive more. We can even forgive ourselves after true, sincere repentance, with all that entails. Many people have difficulty because they cannot forgive themselves, cannot reconcile their Seem of guilt with the ideals they set for themselves. The Lord has said, "... Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow" (Isaiah: 1: 18). I think we can all come much nearer to being perfect. And when we do — and surely without one mite of self-righteousness — people will like and admire us more, and respect us. Further, we will like and admire ourselves, as well as respect ourselves. It is a challenge to each one. I hope we can accept it. 216 or gt, hae. BOP Nae ie eo Paw Harold M. Lambert Hills of Scotland, Near Stranraer Kennedy Castle Grounds of Lord Stair Praise Is a Prayer Margery S. Stewart The stars hold conversations in the night, Singing of delight For being, finding it awesome to exist, Much less to move in silver-winged flight. The gulls are glad for their brief Soarings, the fragile leaf For seasons, fields hold in greening palm The tender sheaf. Small things praise by acts, the ant, In the green comfort of the plant Moves in minute obedience. There is a gratitude in the sea's deep chant. Lost in vast hungers and confusions, I Forget the songs that I might praise thee by. 217 1 Was PRR Es RWS RA SN¥ Annie Atkin Tanner ENCES stand out in my memory of childhood days more than any other inanimate thing. They seem to be a part of the days I like to remember, and I hate to see them go, ugly as some of them were. One by one, the old fences have gone, and it is like old memories being burned alive—a very unhappy experience. After long years of absence from my home town, I returned one day in spring, to find many things had changed. The place seemed half undressed with so many friendly fences gone. The houses that used to look serenely down at me over tall fences, now seemed to be boldly staring. I walked down the once familiar sidewalk which led me to my old home. It appeared strangely stark and lonesome and a little bit apologetic without the weathered, browngray, picket fence which, in other days, seemed to warn any intruder not to enter. As a barefoot child I ran along the narrow plank to which each 218 picket was nailed. Each moment I rather expected to be pierced by one of the defiant lances, and my mother often told me that some day my dress might catch on one of the pickets and I would be hanged. The fact that I wasn't, has always convinced me that sometimes our guardian angels work overtime. The neighbor on the north of our home had a much more enticing fence than ours. It had a long narrow board running along the top of it. 'This fence was a temptation to all the neighborhood children. It practically invited us to "come aboard" and run. Sometimes we fell off, but this was just a challenge to us to try our skill again. We were often scolded and threatened by the exasperated owner of the fence, but children are not easily discouraged. The cedar-post fence was a strange species. The posts stood straight and tall and close together; they were strong and stolid and seemed to dare anyone to laugh at them. Sister Smith lived alone in her home a block south of our house, which was set in the back of her lot. Around the house stood a post fence, a mighty fortress, which seemed to reach to the sky, when I was very young. It was my duty, once or twice a week, to take down to our neighbor a brown pitcher of cold buttermilk or a blue bowl of vegetable soup. Not once did I ever go to the gate but always squeezed perilously through the narrow space between the posts, often spilling a little of the buttermilk or soup, and sometimes scratching my back on the rough posts. The fence on the way to my Aunt Aggie's was built of beautiful, red sandstones from the lovely hills nearby. My cousins and I loved to play on that fence. There was adventure there on the top. The rocks trembled under us and often one tumbled down, as we jumped from one rock to another. One day I was resting on the top of the wall and I looked down below. There, between two rocks, was a huge, gray lizard peeking up at me with his lidless eyes. I jumped from the wall in terror, just as the lizard slithered down and ran across my bare feet. From that day on the charm of the red-rock wall was ended. HE river slowly meandered through our valley, about two miles away from my grandfather's home. In pioneer days he carried willows on his back to weave the fence between him and his neighbors, which kept them good friends for forty years. OLD FENCES AND OLD MEMORIES By the time I can remember his fence, it was completely hidden by black currant bushes. Under their thick shade, my sisters and I built playhouses and made pink and red and yellow hollyhock dolls, with green currants pinned on for heads. Here on the hot July days, we lived in a world of imagination and dreamed of castles and kings. As we grew older, the old fence in the front of our home formed a background for our romances. In the square gate posts two tiny brown house wrens built their nests each spring, and softly complained at night when the rusty hinges on the gate squeaked as we said goodnight. The same whining noise also seemed to let our mother know just what time we came home. Romance had such a perfect setting around that old, gray fence. On May nights pink Dorothy Perkins roses flaunted their loveliness, and the clear, yellow moonlight made the blossoming pear tree a thing of shimmering beauty. On the highest branch of this tree, a mockingbird whistled and sang love songs to us, accompanied by the bass croaking of frogs hidden deep in orchard grass. As we said our last goodnight, the orange moonlight filtered through the mulberry leaves, and the rosescented path to the door left a make-believe world to be remembered with tenderness. The old fences are gone. The fierce-looking picket fences with their green gates, the wide, board fences, the sturdy post fences, and red-stone walls, have disappeared into the past, with our memories as their only hope of revival. 219 Janet W. Breeze OLL it! Pat it! Break it! Stretch it! Whether company is coming or it's just another family meal, nowhere can you find a meat or meat product more versatile and economical than hamburger. Every homemaker has her own pet list of hamburger variations. Maybe some of these will help to supplement yours: Quick Stroganoff % c. Butter or substitute % tsp. Pepper 72 ¢. Minced onion % tsp. Paprika 1 lb. Ground beef 1 can cream of mushroom soup, 1 clove garlic, minced undiluted 2 tbsp. Flour 1 c. Commercial sour cream 1% tsp. Salt snipped parsley Sauté onion in butter or substitute until golden. Stir in hamburger, garlic, flour, salt, pepper, paprika, and sauté 5 minutes. Add soup and simmer uncovered for 10 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in sour cream. Sprinkle with parsley and serve over hot, buttered noodles. Makes 4 to 6 servings. Fortified Burgers To one pound ground beef, add % c. Shredded cheddar cheese; % small onion, chopped; 1 medium-sized tomato, chopped; one egg, slightly beaten; and 3 tablespoons wheat germ. Form into patties and sprinkle both sides with seasoned meat tenderizer to seal in juices. Asparagus Sandwich Sandwich cooked asparagus spears or tips between two cooked hamburger patties. Cover top patty with cream of mushroom soup gravy. Goes well with baked potatoes! 220 MAKE IT WITH HAMBURGER AND SAVE Fruited Meat Loaf To your own basic one-pound meat loaf combination, add % cup drained fruit cocktail, "% cup crushed pineapple, with juice, and % cup raisins. Bake at 350° for one hour. About 15 minutes before done, arrange bacon strips on top of loaf, then continue baking. F ont Hamburaer Cottadae q YJAACA Pie J 4 - Sauté lightly one large onion, chopped, and 1 pound ground beef. Season to taste and stir in 2 tbsp. Flour. Line a 9" pie tin with uncooked biscuit dough crust and fill with hamburger-onion mixture. Fold one cup small curd cottage cheese into 2 slightly beaten eggs; spread over hamburger and sprinkle with paprika. Bake for 30 minutes at 375°. Serve in wedges along with a colorful tossed salad. S cy Meat Balls 1 Ib. Ground beef 1 can (1 lb.) pineapple chunks and 7/2 tsp. Salt syrup "4 tsp. Ginger "4 ¢c. Brown sugar, firmly packed 1 egg 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 tsp. Water "% ¢. Vinegar "% ¢. Flour 2 green peppers, cut in strips 3 tbsp. Salad oil buttered hot noodles Season ground beef with salt and ginger; form lightly into 16 small balls; dip in egg, slightly beaten, with 1 tsp. Water, then in flour; sauté in salad oil in large frying pan, turning to brown all sides. Remove from heat; take out meat balls while making sauce in same pan. Drain syrup from pineapple and add water to it to make 1 cup; stir into drippings In pan. Stir in brown sugar mixed with cornstarch and vinegar. Heat, stirring constantly, until sauce thickens and boil 3 minutes. Arrange browned meat balls, pepper strips, and pineapple chunks in separate piles in pan; stir each gently to coat with sauce; cover. Simmer 10 minutes, or until heated through. Spoon over hot, buttered noodles. Serves 4. Indoor Barbecued Buraer Sauce "2 ¢. Salad oil 2 tsp. Salt "" c. Catsup 4 tbsp. Brown sugar 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce v4 C. Vinegar 1 tsp. Dry mustard 1 tsp. Paprika Combine all ingredients for sauce in large skillet. When mixture reaches boiling point, add 8 to 12 patties. Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 20 minutes. Serve on toasted buns. Hamburger-Spanish Rice 1 C. Taw rice 1 Ib. Ground beef 3 tbsp. Olive oil 2% c. Canned tomatoes 2 large onions, chopped fine 1 tsp. Salt 2 green peppers, chopped "4 tsp. Pepper 3 stalks celery, diced "% Ib. (1 c.) grated cheese 221 MARCH 1963 Wash rice well; then drain, and boil till tender in salted water. Drain well. Meanwhile heat olive oil in frying pan over low heat. Add onions, peppers, celery, and fry gently for 10 minutes. Add ground beef and sauté until lightly browned, stirring constantly to prevent burning of vegetables. Add tomatoes, cover, and cook 15 minutes longer. Combine with rice, and add salt, pepper, and all but % cup cheese. Mix well, and put in well-buttered casserole. Cover with remaining cheese and bake at 350° 25 minutes, or until cheese is melted and lightly brown. Serves 6 to 8. Main Dish Meat Roll 1% \bs. Ground beef 1% tsp. Salt ' Ib. Ground pork sausage dash of pepper 4 tbsp. Onion (sauted in 1 tbsp. ' ¢. Bread crumbs shortening ) 1 egg, beaten Heat oven to 350° F. Combine ingredients; mix thoroughly. Put on waxed paper; pat out in a sheet 14 inches long by 10 inches wide. Potato and Pea Stuffing 2 c. Mashed potatoes 1 tsp. Salt 1 can green pea soup, undiluted dash of pepper 1 egg, beaten Combine ingredients; mix well. Place on the meat and roll the meat mixture around stuffing. Remove wax paper. Bake in moderate oven for 1-1% hours at 350°. Serves 8. Budget Beef Pie Sauté % cup sliced onion and % pound hamburger until lightly brown. Add % tsp. Salt and 1 can condensed tomato soup. Pour into baking dish and cover with rolled biscuit dough. Bake in hot oven (450°) about 20 minutes. Turn upside down on plate. Can be stretched to 6 servings. Busy-Day Casserole % c. Chopped onions 2 tbsp. Prepared mustard 2 tbsp. Butter or substitute "2 tsp. Salt 1 Ib. Ground beef dash of pepper 1 can condensed vegetable soup 2'4 ¢. Water 1 ¢c. Water 2 c. Instant rice 2 tbsp. Catsup % tsp. Salt Sauté onions in butter until golden. Add meat and sauté until browned. Add soup, 1 Cc. Water, catsup, mustard, salt, and pepper. Mix well. Bring to a boil, then simmer 15 minutes. Meanwhile combine rice, water, and salt in saucepan. Cook according to package directions. | Add rice to meat in sauce. Mix and turn into 2-quart casserole. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs or grated cheese if desired. Put under broiler for 2 or 3 minutes. Serves 6. Surprise Patties Shape raw meat loaf into 8 patties. Place sliced cheese on 4 patties. Cover with second patty. Place strip of bacon around edge and hold with toothpick. Broil slowly 10 minutes on each side about 4 inches from heat. 222 p Lucy S. Guyas, Maker of Many Quilts ex Standley Guyas, Salmon, Idaho, has pieced and quilted more than a hundred quilts in the last sixteen years. More than forty of these beautiful quilts were made in the effective six-pointed Lone Star pattern (similar to the quilt which is folded across Sister Guyas' lap). Many other patterns, including the bowknot and double bow knot, and wedding ring patterns have been used in this long-time quiltmaking project. The materials have included cotton fabrics of many kinds, prints, plaincolored, stripes and checks, and also many types of rayon and satin materials, as well as taffetas and brocades. The colors have been beautifully contrasted, or blended, according to the artistic requirements of the pattern. Many lovely quilts have been given to friends and neighbors and in this way a large number of homes have been beautified and made comfortable. Mrs. Guyas is mother to three children and grandmother to nine. She has lived in Salmon for thirty-five years and is active in the Church, and in Relief Society. Speak that kindly word and do that kindly deed that lingers in your heart. Who knows what ray of sunshine it may bring—and tomorrow may be too late. —Pauline Bell 223 CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Irene Spencer, who met her husband Dick in South Africa, comes to a small town near Salt Lake City, and sees for the first time the shabby old house which is to be her home. Dick plans to have his Grandfather and his young handicapped brother David live with them. Irene meets Dick's Aunt Ella who has cared for David since his mother died, and Aunt Ella, also, is accepted as a member of the new household. LLA was a one-woman army in a war against dirt. She attacked the grime that had accumulated in the big house with a vigor that left Irene breathless. As she worked, she talked. Irene had learned not to try to ease in a reply unless necessary. Ella talked more to herself and her enemy, the dirt, than to anyone else. "Got to vacuum first, that's for sure." The whir of the machine formed a buzzing backdrop to her words. "Send these drapes to the cleaners, so you can see what color they are. Can't stand to even take them down until they've been vacuumed, though. Like to choke us all to death, all that dust. What are we going to do with this rug? It'll take a miracle to get that soot out of it. I'd forgotten there was so much woodwork. It needs a good coat of polish, after we get it cleaned." Davy moved like a small ghost through the rooms. He followed Ella as she worked, and she encour- 224 aged the child to remain nearby. Irene felt haunted by the child. She would feel his presence, his empty eyes on her as she worked. If she turned to see him, he would be gone. Or she would glance up, to find him half-hidden by a drape or a chair, peeping out at her. If she tried to approach him or speak to him, he would shrink from her and disappear. Bringing order out of chaos was no easy thing to do. As the remodeling progressed, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, and _ painters created and recreated a havoc of noise and clutter. Each day Irene and Ella struggled valiantly through what seemed like never-ending mountains of dust, dirt, sawdust, paint, plaster, and other assorted materials. They found companionship in their mutual struggle against them. Irene was grateful for the numbness that hard work enforced on her mind. She still felt like an interloping outsider. When she tried to visualize the future, she rejected such thoughts fearfully. Years seemed to stretch before her, with a house to care for in which she was an alien stranger, and a child to rear that she couldn't even talk to. She couldn't accustom herself to carrying on onesided conversations with Davy, as Dick did. Besides, Davy wouldn't let her. He was lost and confused in the riot of the house, cared for, but largely ignored. Even the solarium was not exempt from the clutter. It was hollowly empty when Dick moved his desk and files into it. Three walls of glass surrounded him, and in the U center of those windows, he set up his drawing board. Later he intended to partition the huge room into offices. At the moment, it became a convenient storage spot for paint cans, hammers, plumbing fixtures, draperies that had come back from the cleaners but would not be hung until the cleaning was finished, and other odds and ends that Ella, Irene, and the workmen saw fit to store away in it. Dick was goodnatured about this usurpation of his domain, but Irene knew he would welcome any changes for the better. She fell into bed each night so exhausted that, as she told Dick, frequently she was asleep before her head touched the pillow. He frowned. "You'd better take it easy. You're trying to get too much done too fast. It'll wait." "That's what I'm afraid of. It's waited too long already." "You don't want to _ overdo, Irene." "Pm perfectly all right," she said fondly. "The work's good for me. It keeps my mind occupied." ~ HE sea-grayness of his eyes darkened. "I know what you mean. I know how hard all this has been on you. The house, and Granddad and Ella, and especially Davy. I can't just forget them and go off and live my own life, Irene, even if that might be the easy way. They're KEEP MY OWN mine. Blood's thicker than brine, they say." Tears rushed to her eyes. She saw his face through a blur. She had thought he didn't understand! "Oh, Dick, I know we can't do anything else! When I think of it rationally, I don't want to, either. [''m a woman grown. I'll be a mother soon. If I can't accept a few responsibilities, I'd be a poor excuse for a wife. I love you, and I love them, too. Because I do, I know I can work all this out. Just give me a little more time. I feel so strange, sometimes, coming here from a foreign country." She forced herself to smile through the haze of her tears. Buried again in the never-ending cleaning, she let her forced smile die a natural death. She had believed her words when she spoke them to Dick. Afterward, alone in the lbrary with cliffs of books surrounding her, she looked inward upon herself and knew how immature and afraid she was. She pulled books out and stacked them about the room while she cleaned the shelves. Someday she hoped to have time to read some of them. She turned a rich red leather bound volume over in her hands to examine the title, then paused. She had the unmistakable eerie feeling of Davy's seeking eyes burning into her back. She didn't turn, knowing that he would be gone if she did. She spoke softly, so she wouldn't startle him. "Come in, Davy. Isn't this a beautiful room? Books are good friends, and there are so many of them in here." Then she dared look toward him. 225 MARCH 1963 Her words had caught him off balance. He stood irresolutely in the doorway. His hair was wind-blown, and an appealing curl drooped over one eyebrow. He started to back away. She had an almost irrepressible urge to smooth back the stray curl, to touch the thin little cheek. "Please don't go, Davy." She fought to keep the desperation she felt from seeping through into her voice. 'Then she noticed that while his wide eyes were orbs of distrust, they were not blank. Elation bubbled inside her. It was the first time he had ever looked at her, knowing that she saw him, and met her with anything but that expressionless stare that so disconcerted her. "T have something for you, Davy. A book. We're going to have a baby, you know. I thought you might like to read about babies before our baby comes." She had left the book on Dick's desk in the solarium and now regretted not having it with her. "Will you wait here while I go get it?" E, backed further away, toward a beckoning shadow. "Tl tell you what Pil do. Pll put it here on this table. When you wish to read it, it'll be here for you. All right?" He slipped away and was gone like a pint-sized phantom, merged into the silent shadows from which he had come. Irene sank into a chair and covered her face with her hands. Oh, Davy, she thought, you poor little soul! A child that never laughs, 226 never talks, never sings! I've accepted this awesome responsibility, but it's just not enough. Whatever am I going to do about it? "Granddad," she asked that day during lunch, "are you sure Davy's hearing is all right?" Davy had slipped away from the table to pursue his private world. "I know he's not completely deaf, but sometimes he never seems to hear a thing I say." Granddad shook his head. "His hearing's all nght. Sometimes he may not want to hear, but he can. If anything, better than average. We checked all those possibilities, Irene." "T'm sure you did. I just thought perhaps...." Granddad's eyes were narrow. "We all went through the same thing. Searching for a physical cause. I know how it is. It would be easier, of course, to combat... In a way. You've been thinking in terms of a hearing aid, or perhaps corrective surgery. Hopes we had, too, a long time ago. Now we know that the only place to base any hope is in Davy. In his recovery from a loss that he was unable to fathom or cope with." Irene toyed with her sandwich idly. "If I could just reach him. He's so distant. More so with me than anyone." "Subconsciously, he's trying to reject you. He's afraid of you. I spoke to his doctor about it." "Afraid of me? Whatever for?" "He doesn't have much conscious memory of his mother, but it was she who deserted him, to his baby mind. He's afraid to love you lest you desert him, too. 'That's over- simplifying, of course, but in general, that's the idea." Such a_ sickening realization robbed her of her appetite. She pushed her lunch away almost angrily. "He doesn't react to Ella like that." "FElla's been with him from the beginning. And with all of that, his trust in Ella and Dick and me. The fact remains we haven't been able to teach him to speak." "Then he could talk, if he wanted to?" "No. It's a psychological block. He can't speak. Not until that block is removed. Some children develop a mental block against learning arithmetic or geography, perhaps because of an unpleasant association. Again, that's over-simplifying, but it's much the same thing." "Maybe I had a mental block without knowing it," Irene smiled. "My aunt used to say I just didn't have any arithmetic sense." HE gradual emergence of order could be seen only by those who had been working in the debris and confusion. As each room was thoroughly cleaned, it was closed up tightly against invading soil from other areas of the house. When Irene first saw the sprawled heating system in the basement, she was appalled. "Dick, it looks like something out of the dark ages!" she cried. He laughed. "It almost is. Someday we'll tear it all out and put in a modern gas furnace, but for now it will have to serve." Granddad squinted up into the rafters at one of the octopus-like furnace arms snaking between them. KEEP MY OWN "Tt's about on its last legs, though," he said. "One of these days whoom! She'll be gone." "Until that day she'll have to do," Dick reiterated firmly. It was a foolish notion, she knew, but Irene felt a deep personal animosity toward that furnace. She even had nightmares in which the entire apparatus took on life, reaching and stretching through its many eel-like arms and legs into every room in the house. She was certain that it would refuse to heat the house simply because she was living there. Dick and Granddad exchanged knowing looks about the peculiarities of expectant mothers when she refused to go downstairs near that furnace. "T hope it goes "whoom' in a hurry, she said with venom, "and I know my mind will be more at ease." She covered the dining-room table with a thick mat of newspapers and a plastic tablecloth to protect the finish. Ella brought in two tubs, one filled with hot sudsy water, and the other with clear rinse water. Irene stood on the table herself in order to reach the chandelier and remove the prisms that dangled from thin wires on the frame. "You ought not to be climbing around," Ella scolded. "Tm perfectly all right, Ella. 'This table is so large it's almost like standing in the middle of the floor.'"' She removed the prisms and handed them down one by one. Ella dunked each one in the suds. She let it soak for a minute before she fished it out and rinsed it. "Just the same, it's better to be safe than 227 MARCH 1963 sorry. You're not supposed to reach or stretch, either." "Tm really not. Look. The chandelier hangs so low I almost have to reach down from up here to get some of them off." It was true, but Ella continued to grumble. Granddad entered the dining room, with Davy in tow. "Well, now, what have we here?" "Cleaning detail, Granddad!" Irene sang out. "Like to help?" "You bet I would. I've just been waiting for the work to progress to this point. Always had a soft spot for this fixture. Here, Davy, take a cloth. Let's make these little dangles shine like diamonds set in stars." They both polished industriously. Irene, looking down through the maze of gilt framework, was struck by the care that Davy employed in his task. He took genuine pride in each glittering orb, holding them up to the light to be sure that they were immaculate. Ella's perpetual voice droned on, and Irene forced herself to listen. "... Water's getting cold, and the electrician hasn't finished with the water heater. If we need any more Pll have to heat it on the stove. Take all the time in the world to do the littlest jobs! If we worked as slowly as they do, we'd never have this place in decent condition...." (THEY completed the task to Flla's accompaniment. When the last glittering prism was rehung in the last empty hook, Irene climbed down off the table and stood looking up into the tiers of crystal light drops. She recalled her 228 sour mood the first time she had seen the delicately ornate fixture, and felt a surge of joy that she had had a part in restoring its splendor. She smiled as she remembered how she and Dick had made faces in fun at each other while he washed these windows on the outside and she polished them on the inside. Now the late-day summer sun streamed through them. Nota trace of dust deflected the sun's sparkle. Orbs and pendants of varying sizes on the chandelier trapped every stray beam, joyfully reflecting it over and over. Irene felt the glow of pride in accomplishment. She felt that even if she didn't belong to the house, it was beginning to belong to her. Perhaps she would never know the unified feeling of belonging, but she was taking great pleasure in making the house reflect her, and in making a home for the others. It was an intangible feeling. She couldn't have expressed it if she had tried. She was glad, however, that it had come to her. She didn't want to be a stranger in Dick's and their baby's home. Ella had carried one of the tubs away. When she returned, her dress and apron were wet. Sloppy hems slapped her legs with each step she took. "Spilled it," she said. "All over.. In that sawdust that carpenter's making in there. Wet sawdust... Ugh. Nice mess to have to clean up. May as well empty the other one first, I'm as likely as not to spill it, too, the way things are going." Irene laughed out loud. For a moment she was afraid Ella might take offense, but her bubbling hap- piness spilled over in humor. How like Ella to regard the cabinet maker as "making sawdust' instead of constructing much-needed cupboards. Ella sniffed, then grinned, too. She tried to maintain her cross tone, but the grin infected it. "Seems like every time I sweep it up, they make some more. If it isn't sawdust, it's plaster, or wire, or a can of paint, or something just as bad. As if the dirt isn't bad enough." Davy had disappeared. Granddad asked in mock concern, ""Now where did that scalawag go?" Flla answered. "Davy? Probably to the library. He's been spending most of his free time in there lately." Irene glanced up. "The library?" "He's a great one for reading." Granddad pulled at his chin. "Most of those books are a bit deep for him, though, I'm afraid." Irene broke away as they finished clearing up. Grandad rolled the newspapers into a cone that would fit in the fireplace while Ella dried the plastic before she put it away. The library door was ajar. It had been closed most of the time since its cleaning was finished. She hesitated, then with renewed resolve she stepped inside. AVY sat in a deeply tufted dark leather chair, a small figure KEEP MY OWN almost lost in the curved depths. The drapes were drawn, and the child had switched on a lamp that stood on the table next to his chair. A circle of light rose from the lamp, surrounding his head like a halo. The book Irene had given him was opened on the arm of the chair. His chin rested in his hand as he read it. She loved him so much at that instant that she nearly hurt with it. Unknowingly, Irene brushed against the door frame. Davy jumped to his feet, a trapped, wild look in his eyes. The spell was broken. The lovely book fell unwanted to the floor, and lay there on the face of its pages. "Tm so glad you found the book," Irene said. "I won't bother you now, I see you were busy reading it. I'd love to read it with you sometime. If you should want me to read it to you, bring it to me, and I will. All right?" She expected no answer and got none. Apprehension tied knots in the pit of her stomach. In respect to the mood she had shattered, to the privacy she had invaded, she turned and walked slowly away. She left the boy standing by the chair. The halo of light he had worn so naturally only a moment before now shone futilely alone against the dark grain of the leather chair. (To be continued ) I will strive to make each day a cheerful day. To have within my heart a desire to forgive any who might have wronged me and a prayer for those who have found more thorns than roses along the pathway of life. —Pauline Bell 229 FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker _ All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES South Idaho Falls Stake Harvest Fair November 9, 1962 Alice Moss, stake Magazine representative, is seen at the right offering free copies of The Relief Society Magazine to guests who attended the harvest fair. Fern C. McClellan, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports that the table shown im the picture was designed to illustrate the many phases of subject material presented in the Magazine. '"This fellowshipping program was sponsored jointlv by the stake and ward Relief Society organizations. Beautiful exhibits of bazaar items were displayed, as well as tables depicting the different aspects of Relief Society: visiting teaching, social science, literature, theology, welfare, and the Magazine. An original presentation 'Mother Goes to School' stressed the enrichment received from Relief Society. Music was furnished by the Singing Mothers and guest artists. Refreshments were served. Of the 300 who attended, nearly one-third were not enrolled members of Relief Society. Many were of other faiths. It was a great thrill for us to be able to share Relief Society with these friends and neighbors." Ammon Stake (Idaho) Inter-Faith Social October 24, 1962 Left to right: Afton Godfrey, work meeting leader; Betty Stoddard, Work Director Counselor; Emma Jane Nelson, President; Virginia Garner, Education Counselor; Susette Budge, organist; Sharlene Blatter, literature class leader; Beverly Mercer, theology class leader; Beth Jacobs, social science class leader; Connie Fell, visiting teacher message leader; Violet Wakley, Magazine representative; Valene Heer, chorister; Renae Paxman, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Nelson reports: ""With the stake house as its setting, four hundred women were present to enjoy our Inter-Faith Social with us. A lovely musical program was given, and a history of Relief Society, its purposes and activities, was presented also. Each ward arranged beautiful displays of its loveliest bazaar items, this handiwork being an outgrowth of the work meeting activities. In addition to these displays, each of the stake board members set up displays depicting the purposes and objectives of the lesson department. Light refreshments were served. We are very pleased with the outcome of our Inter-Faith Social. Women representing fifteen other religions were present, in addition to our own members, and we feel that much was accomplished towards showing others the greatness of Relief Society and making new friends with women of other faiths." 230 MARCH 1963 Temple View Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents Check to Liahona Branch Front row, sisters standing left to right: Anna G. Allen, Second Counselor, Liahona Branch Relief Society; Loretta Pawiki, First Counselor; Margaret J. Renshaw, President; Edna S. Hewlett, President, Temple View Stake Relief Society. Back row, brethren, left to right: Elder G. Wallace Fox, First Counselor, Liahona Branch; Elder Ralph Williams, President; Elder Maurice J. Taylor, President, 'Temple View Stake. Sister Hewlett reports: "A lovely musical benefit called 'Evening of Many Talents' was given in the Temple View Stake chapel September 24, 1962, for the newly organized Liahona (Indian) Branch Relief Society. In the picture a check for $237 is being presented to Sister Margaret J. Renshaw, President, Liahona Branch Relief Society, by Edna S. Hewlett, President, Temple View Stake Relief Society." Shelley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, October 1962 Velma G. Risenmay, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, stands first at the right on the second row; organist Janeen Harris, first on the right in the front row; chorister Evelyn Hook stands first at the left in the front row. Sister Risenmay reports: "The Shelley Stake Singing Mothers chorus has been honored for several years to present the music for the October Stake Quarterly Conferences. This year the numbers we chose were: "If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments,' 'Still, Still With Thee,' "The Work We're Called to Do,' and 'Love One Another,' with Alene Lyon as soloist, and Afton Cook, Evada Bitter, and Dorothy Christensen as violinists, and Ruth Oler at the organ." Long Beach Stake (California), Sixth Ward Relief Society Makes Pixie Dolls for Their Bazaar Seated, left to right: Zerilda Campbell; Kathleen Abplanalp; Shirley Roost; Marian Roost; Luella Garton; Elizabeth Peterson; Shirley Goodwin, President; Rhoda Patten; Annabell Bigleman; Roberta Pike, Work Director Counselor; Ida McEwan. Standing, left to right: Marian Peterson; Stella Nielson; Jennie Mae Taylor, work meeting leader; Lena Goodlad; Veda Vanfleet; Leola Branson; Sandra Nielson; Joy Peterson; Peggy Rich. Marian Bennett, President, Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Sixth Ward made pixie dolls for their bazaar. They had an opportunity to sell them, and decided to use this activity as a building fund project. Through the work and faith of the sisters, they have been able to give their bishop $1,000 towards their new chapel building. And the orders for the pixie dolls continue to come in. This has been a lot of work, and also a great blessing and satisfaction to the sisters who have given of their time and talents. They have become better acquainted with each other and have had a lot of fun together. The project has strengthened their testimonies and brought them closer to each other." 232 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 233 Zion Park Stake (Utah) Relief Society Honors Active Visiting Teachers Past Eighty Years of Age at Visiting Teacher Convention Left to right: Lettie Whitney, stake visiting teacher message leader; Laura Pulsipher, eighty-one, visiting teacher from Toquerville Ward; Amelia Heaton, eighty-two, Hurricane South Ward; Amelia Sanders, eighty-six, La Verkin Ward; Genevieve H. Gubler, President, Zion Park Stake Relief Society. Sister Gubler reports: "We honored these three lovely sisters for being active visiting teachers at past eighty years of age, still serving. Sister Heaton and Sister Pulsipher achieved a one hundred per cent attendance record at the visiting teacher meeting the past year. Sister Heaton visited every family in her district every month." Lethbridge Stake (Canada), Macleod Ward Quilting Project Seated, left to right: Geraldine Olsen; Grace Agate, work meeting leader; Janana Orr, Work Director Counselor; Luella Gray, President. Back row, standing, left to right: Wada De Ginnus; Jean Richardson; Myrna Hart; Mary Sheffield; Louise Henrie; Fern Duce; Viola Orr. Theodora B. Nelson, President, Lethbridge Stake Relief Society, reports that thirty-six beautiful quilts were made by the sisters of the Macleod Ward, in their successful and rewarding project of supplying their homes with bedding. Northern Mexican Mission, Mission-Wide Relief Society Convention September 1962 Annie R. Call, President, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports that more than sixty sisters attended the convention, including eight district Relief Society presidents, forty branch presidents, and six from the mission board. "These women represented branches from all over Northern Mexico. Our program began at nine and closed at six, but we served three meals, as all came on buses or trains and had to come and leave according to schedules. This meant that many arrived before six in the morning and left at eleven at night. "It was a long day, but with the slides of "A Record Shall Be Kept,' the film "Unto the Least of These,' forty-five minutes of learning how to direct hymns with batons, two excellent 'mixers' which could be used in the opening socials the next week in Relief Societies, general instructions, teaching helps, work-day suggestions and demonstrations, it proved to be a very successful and profitable day. "President Annie R. Call presented general instructions; First Counselor Pauline Redd Burt spoke on work ideas and the presentation of suggestions for socials; Second Counselor Dolores G. De Almaguer presented some teaching helps; Secretary-Treasurer Coleen M. Cox gave some helps for filling out weekly and monthly reports and in the roll call; Afton K. Shreeve, in charge of music, gave some excellent ideas and helps for directing hymns; Apolinar de Reyes talked on the importance of caring for burial clothing. 234 NOTES FROM THE FIELD MARCH 1963 Irish Mission, Irish District Relief Society Seminar, Redhill, Belfast, Northern Ireland, September 8, 1962 Front row, standing in the center, Sandra M. Covey, President, Irish Mission Relief Society, holding the hand of her daughter Cynthia; Mary Brooks, First Counselor, standing next to Sister Covey (in plaid suit); Secretary Myrl Peay stands fourth from the left on the front row; Elder Stephen R. Covey, President of the Irish Mission, stands at the right in the front row. Sister Covey reports: "On the 28th of September we held an all-day Relief Society | Seminar for the primary purpose of presenting an outline and interpretation of this | year's agenda, the program regarding visiting teaching, record keeping, The Relief Society Magazine, bazaars, teacher training, and Relief Society policies, as well as other aspects of our work. We wanted to give the presidents a vision of what can be done if they understand the program and policies and help them to analyze their specific situations and problems and have new ideas and approaches in dealing with them. The presentation was in the form of skits, films, discussions, lectures, and buzz groups. Since learning is always directly correlated to involvement and participation, we tried to structure | the situation so that through this medium of participation all were able actively to take | part, express their opinions, analyze and discuss common problems in. Their districts. "The attitude of the group was marvelous — very spontaneous, and all were eager to participate, teachable, and happy to be able to express their opinions and discuss their problems. We had each branch bring some of their most original and nicest articles from their work meetings and displayed them so the other branches would be able to exchange ideas and patterns. "We know that growth is coming and will come very rapidly, and if we have a strong program to build on, it will be much easier to establish new and strong Relief | Societies. We pray that the Lord will bless us in our efforts. We are thrilled with the wonderful Relief Society program. Already there has been a rapid growth in our mission." 236 SS Saas eo eewe - SINGIN MOTHERS 'TIS ABIDE WITH ME; EVENTIDE—Madsen GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Spafford, and AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN.20 Schreiner _ 0..0 00000000 eee.30 m JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach _ 0.0..00..-. 25. LET NOT YOUR SONG END— BT nonsense eects eeesesseeeecee.25 oe.. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— MME onan. N cen cenecnccnnnnecssenaconencves.20 7 LORD'S PRAYER—Gates.20 i LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte.25 im MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen eee.25 * STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen 220.00 selene eee.22 = UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven.22 i VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— BOOTIE. Cncvdnarevecaveccaevervensaceeevs.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. {J On Approval [] Money Enclosed Name nono. Ceeeeeeceees Address City and State Sr ent cms ne tt eh ee Hy NA Ne REE cette i ee mt a ee et et ee | | C] Charge | | t 15 E. Ist South | / Salt Lake City 11, Utah] The Old Gate Catherine B. Bowles Do memories linger, when at night You see an old gate now shut tight? It used to stand open, swing to and fro; Children ran through it with faces aglow. It stands as a symbol — life passes by; Enjoy each day where sweet memories lie. There is a straight path that leads to a gate That will be open, be it early or late — A welcoming smile where loved ones meet, Memories linger, precious and sweet. Through this unlocked gate, we all must go To the portals of heaven to reap what We sow. SAVE on PERMA-PAK'S Processed Potatoes Flakes or Slices NOW SPECIALLY PRICED! No peeling, no cooking, no waste! How quickly, easily you'll prepare potatoes with that delicious, ''old-fashioned flavor." Packed in moistureproof, compact-for-storage #10 cans. ALSO ON SALE -BEEF GRAVY T%-oz. Foil packages or 13-ooz. Jars These are just a few of the many Perma-Pak storage and survival foods currently priced for real savings. Send for our complete list of specials. Also ask for information about our economical Family Food Storage Plan and your FREE Perma-Pak catalog of storage foods and survival kits. Discounts on group purchases. For prices and shipping information write: PERMA-PAK 40 E. Robert Ave., Salt Lake City 15, Utah 257 Recompense Verda P. Bollschweiler Somehow I know that this is not the end, You ll laugh again, and sing again, and live, Hearts that are broken have been known to mend And empty vessels can renew and give. Nothing finer in all the world than our Elegant and Larger "AMERICA'S FINEST ICE CREAM STORE" And then — Just to remind you Saelotove msmeme' Vg Cream is the industry's Supreme Achievement. OUR ONLY STORE—850 East 21st South Street—Open until Midnight—Closed Sundays "Artistry in Pleasurefoods" Hawaiian Tours February, June, and November, 1963 Mexican Tour in March Orient Tour leaves March to April Northwestern Tour in June Alaskan Tour in July Hill Cumorah Tour July-August Europe in August Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 238 GOLD MEDALLION A wonderful new way to live Buy now from your deal UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Se BSS Zippy, the Zions Savings Bug, Says for your money' at ZS&L!" e Savings deposited by the 20th of any month and left on deposit 'til June 30, 1963, earn from the Ist of that month. Big 44%% per year current rate earnings are compounded twice a year so that the earnings earn earnings. Your savings are insured to $10,000 by the Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corp., a permanent agency of the U. S. Government. Never in its 79-year history has Zions Savings & Loan failed (even in depression times) to pay a dividend to each of its savings customers. You have a choice of savings plans a Savings Certificate Plan, a Regular Savings Plan, even a unique Savings-plus-Insurance program all paying 4%2% yearly dividends. % per year current rate 2 compounded semi-annually Utah's First Savings & Loan Ass'n. ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association eeeeneoeoeeeoee 33 E. LST SOUTH - SALT LAKE CITY open Fridays *til 6:30 p. M. 4901 SOUTH STATE - MURRAY open Saturdays 'til noon SHOSHSHSSHHSHSHHSSHSHSSEHSESHOSSEHHOOHHEOOE @eeo2e22eoe0eoe206 Mexican Tour Leaving March 17, 1963 Mexico City, Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins Northwest, Canadian Rockies, Lake Louise & Banff Tour, etc. Leaving June 27 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour July 24 Black Hills Passion Play Tour Leaves August 17 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles _ 2.0.--..2:. Eceee 35 150 to 300 miles W000.39 300 to 600 miles 0 2.0 645 wm 600 to 1000 miles 20 eee 54 1000 to 1400 miles 0.022.0000.64 1400 to 1800 miles — 0 - 76 Over 1800 miles 0..2--0 2-222---.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 239 Ninety-nine Mrs. Sopu1e Harscu Nauvoo, Illinois Nirs. Isapora Farrcuitp LyMANn Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. Carrie Brazier CUNNINGTON Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-seven Miss Atice G. SmuirH Logan, Utah Mrs. Rosetra Hunt BytncTton Lava Hot Springs, Idaho Mrs. Marcaret FE. Gordon Monrovia, California Ninety-six Mrs. CATHERINE Heccre GRIFFITHS Logan, Utah Mrs. SusannaH W. McGuie Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Cora Srpwett BUTLER Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Batry SMITH Randolph, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. WILHELMINA FREDRIKA GuTKE PRICE Downey, Idaho Mrs. ANNIE Woop WESTOVER Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Laura Basset SMITH Sacramento, California Mrs. FLORENCE JANE ALEXANDER CuRTIS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. AMANDA SEGO SMITH Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Nancy E. Suri Mesa, Arizona Mrs. SAarAH Symons HILLsTEAD Salt Lake City, Utah 240 Ninety-three Mrs. Florence Dix Purpy Ogden, Utah Mrs. Diana Mariette Biazzarp Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rosrk Erta Harty Jacksonville, Florida Mrs. Mary JANE CRowTHER DuRFEE Aurora, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. EvizaBpeta EnimaA SLADE CARROLL Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Marigz JORGENSEN CARLING Shelley, Idaho Ninety-one Mrs. Maccire McPHere STEVENSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rost HANSEN NELSON Ogden, Utah Mrs. Exizapeta Hankin DEnAIN Kemmerer, Wyoming Mrs. Mat Harrison SMiri Springville, Utah Ninety Mrs. LENorA Hupson SHEFFIELD Cardston, Alberta Canada Mrs. MarTHA ELNORE VANCE FOWLES Fairview, Utah Mrs. BABETTE HENNRICH DIMLER Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary Lirucow Puyallup, Washington Mrs. Hutpa Garrr MICKELSON SALISBURY Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hattie Loenza MERRILL FUNK Ogden, Utah A Powerful and Challenging Study of the Life of Christ by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Every Relief Society sister will benefit from the wisdom and choice insight that President Clark brings to bear on. This significant and —— = rewarding examination of the purpose behind the life and ministry of Jesus Christ. Only $3.95 Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Cut coupon or write - Deseret Book Company, - 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Order: i b Please send me 'Behold the Lamb of God.' I enclose check/money by order value $3.95*. Or bill me, I have an account (cross out one). Ma i 1 ee ae ee es ee es ane Address ene ee ee eee ee ee ee eee eee eee eee OU nn cece eneeeees Zone State --2.-..2..2-- *Residents of Utah add 3% sales tax. 
