

Cold Dorothy J. Roberts Yesterday her childhood And the trembling leaves were there, But the amber carpet scattered And the tree above grew bare. The limbs no longer hold The warmth of child and leaf, And! Have learned at length How subtle, time, how brief. Could child and leaf pour gold Upon my heart today, Grown wiser, | would know How soon they slip away, And reaching back, enthralled, Would drink my brimming cup Till weary as a leaf She held her small arms up. But night has stripped the bough And footsteps cannot find The gold of yesterday That fell on earth and mind. Today! Hardly know Just where | paused and stood, Since gold no longer lights This corner of the wood. The Cover: Autumn in American Fork Canyon, Utah Transparency by L. Paul Roberts Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: September Symphony Photograph by L. Paul Roberts Art Layout: 9 Dick Scopes IHustrations: Hi Mary Scopes AD Al (Som e rar Wil If you want to take a very enjoyable trip, read the article in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine written by Claire Noall, ''A Road by the Sea." To make the trip more interesting, were those lovely pictures, so vivid and colorful. Surely Claire has some more articles which are worthwhile, and more pictures she can tell us about. —Olive Sharp ~ Salt Lake City, Utah In the unusually splendid Relief Society Magazine for June, I especially appreciate the article on Norway, with its beautiful color pictures, the result of careful planning and artistic study, by Claire Noall. I hope we have more of such articles by such a gifted writer. —Hortense Y. Hammond Salt Lake City, Utah As a result of The Relief Society Magazine Birthday Congratulations column published in May to Sarah Benjamin, age ninety-one, she received a letter on her birthday from the man who baptized her in Providence, Rhode Island, sixty-six years ago - in 1897. As a young woman, she had traveled all alone from her home in England to this country. One of the young missionaries who taught her the gospel was Willis K. Johnson now living in Springville, Utah, with his wife Eva. It has been a joyous reunion for these lovely people after all these many years — thanks to the Magazine. —Mabel B. Liddell San Francisco, California I have been taking the Magazine for a long time and have enjoyed every issue. The size is designed for convenience and beauty, and the lessons and many articles and features have been improved for easier reading and understanding and_ better teaching and class rapport, but the gospel truths, genuine love and interest, and faith-building are the same now as when I was first introduced to the Magazine. —Esther C. Riggs Payson, Arizona 642 Of How many times I have received inspiration from the magnificent Relief Society Magazine. As a young mother, I have found the May issue to be especially uplifting. Such worthwhile hints for good homemaking as in Elna P. Haymond's story about her mother give remarkable insight into our duties as mothers. And what mother could help but be touched and grateful for her children after reading "Early Years Are a Mother's Glory," by Leona Fetzer Wintch, and "Too Busy?" by Annella Barnes? Another outstanding article in this issue is Leola Seely Anderson's "As the Heart Grows."' —Sue Jane Alvord ~ Glendale, California We would all from the Coventry Ward like to tell you how much we enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. We like the new look very much — it makes the Magazine more interesting. Also, we like the photographs of our sisters from o lef lands. —Eveline Austin Coventry, England After reading and enjoying the Magazine for the past several years, I would like to thank you for the most complete reading material I have ever read. It teaches and guides; it inspires, comforts, and reprimands. It is all things pleasurable in reading and leaming. I also thank my mother-in-law who first introduced me to Relief Society and the Magazine, and has provided me with this most precious gift for eight years. —Alice Stoddard Aubum, Washington We are so very proud of each issue of the Magazine, and feel that it is one of our great tools in the missionary program here in Hawaii. —Louise F. Brooks Former President Hawaii Mission Relief Society Honolulu, Hawai The Relief Society Magazine 

The Relief Society Magazine SEPTEMBER 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 9 Editor: Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor: Vesta P. Crawford General Manager: Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 644 Birthday Greetings to President David O. McKay _ Belle S. Spafford 647 The Seventy-fifth Anniversary Conference of the International Council of Women Marianne C. Sharp 654 He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part IV President Lorenzo Snow Preston Nibley 664 Thoughts of a New Member _ Rosina Victoria Risley 672 From the Palace of a Princess to a Place in Normandy Claire Noall Fiction 656 The Restyling Dorothea J. Neilson 666 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 3 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 642 From Near and Far 661 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 662 Editorial: An Understanding Heart Marianne C. Sharp 691 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker 720 Birthday Congratulations Features for the Home 678 The Eating Club Louise S. Davis 681 Rock Gardening Dorthea N. Newbold 685 Bazaars Are Wonderful! Louise W. Madsen 690 Charlotte B. Richards — Keeper of Records Lessons for December 698 Theology — The Kingdom of God Roy W. Doxey 704 Visiting Teacher Message — "Continue in Patience Until Ye Are Perfected" Christine H. Robinson 705 Work Meeting — Planning the Conservation of Family Resources Virginia F. Cutler 708 Literature — The Quickening Spirit of Emily Dickinson Briant S. Jacobs 717 Social Science — Lesson not Included for December Poetry 641 Yesterday's Gold — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts Dusk Gold, Christie Lund Coles, 653; The Stars Are There, Grace Barker Wilson, 665; I Wait and Wonder, Caroline Eyring Miner, 665; Slow Weather, Gilean Douglas, 671; Autumn Beauty, Zara Sabin, 703; Shut Out, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 707; Forever, Florence S. Glines, 715; Mother's Hands, Linda Clarke, 716; Pathway, Catherine B. Bowles, 716; Autumn Wind, Rowena Jensen Bills, 719. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 y the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMp: > 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in aa vance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months « y. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Church assembled in a General Conference, President McKay holds an extremely taxing and responsible office. Office within the Church is not part of the Priesthood, but it is from the Priesthood that the office derives its authority and power. Office is the service or duty to be performed; the line of work to be followed. As we consider the rapid growth and expansion of the Church today, the duties incident to the office of President are overwhelming, and the responsibilities resting upon the President are beyond comprehension to most of us. One almost wonders how mortal man can meet the endless requirements. Yet, President McKay meets the duties of each day with poise, graciousness, wisdom, and diligence, coming to his office in the very early hours of the morning and often remaining past the ordinary working day. The General Presidency of Relief Society has been favored in having frequent opportunity to see President McKay impressively exercise the varied functions of his calling — Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President of the Church — in behalf of Relief Society and the sisters who comprise its membership. We have stood awed by his insight and understanding, his counsel and direction; 645 SEPTEMBER 1963 and we have rejoiced in the blessings that have come to us through him. We know of a surety that he holds the keys to the kingdom of God on earth. As we contemplate the greatness of his position as Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President of the Church, we are led to contemplate how one comes by such an exalted position. It is not by chance, nor by the whims or machinations of men. The Lord has told us that he rules in the heavens and in the earth beneath in all wisdom and prudence. He showed unto Abraham... The intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. Certainly President David O. McKay was one of these noble and great spirits chosen before the world was for his great earthly calling. But this is not enough, for the actions of his earth life have had to enter into his present greatness and exalted calling. He has had to prove himself here, continuing in diligence and righteousness from day to day. Born a choice spirit of goodly parents, he has devoted his life to the service of his fellow men, and the work of the Master. He has been tireless in his efforts to build the kingdom of God on earth. He has traveled far and wide, carrying the 646 gospel message by precept and example. He has sat in the highest councils of the Church, being ordained an apostle by President Joseph F. Smith on April 9, 1906. He was called to office in the First Presidency as Second Counselor to President Heber J. Grant in October 1934. He served as President of the Council of the Twelve from October 1950 until April 1951. He has magnified every calling that has come to him. President McKay is by nature tender, kind, considerate, and gracious, at the same time he is firm and unyielding in upholding right. So penetrating is he in his judgments and so fair that one does not question, but accepts. So understanding and wise is his counsel, given always with sensitivity to the feelings and position of another, that one is honored to receive it and joys in following it. He has elevated the position of womankind. He has ennobled the designation "mother" and "wife," and has engreatened the role of homemaker. He has recognized woman's compassionate nature and honored her in her service. His great heart is continually evidenced in his thoughtful considerations of the sisters of the Church. At this birthday season for President McKay, we express gratitude for his life and labors and also for Sister McKay, his beloved and devoted companion and _helpmeet through the years. May our expressions of love, esteem, and gratitude for our President be daily evidenced by our obedience to the commandments of the Lord, whose leading representative he is upon the earth. The Seventy-Fifth Anniversary Conference of the \ |: International ialiesaiae > i. Is seventy-five years since Emily S. Richards, Relief Society General Board member, journeyed to Washington, D. C., as a delegate of Relief Society for the Territory of Utah. She went to attend a meeting which resulted in Relief Society, at the instance of President Wilford Woodruff, becoming a charter member of the National Council of Women of the United States and the International Council of Women. In anticipation of the event, the Woman's Exponent said, "The union of women in this work will be a strong lever to lift them from comparative obscurity to a much higher and loftier plane, and will give to the various departments of woman's work and industries an impetus not before apparent" (March 15, 1888). The 17th Triennial Assembly held in Washington, D. C., June 19-30, 1963, reemphasized the original concept declared by the members in 1888 that "We... Do hereby freely band ourselves together into a federation of all races, creeds and traditions, to further the application to Council of Women LEE aaa — e ~ ~~" 4: U e 7:: * ae ee e ee oy > a " society, custom and law of the Golden Rule." Madame Lefaucheux, International President, in her opening address pointed out that the Council works for the benefit of humanity in general and, in particular, for the category of individuals who do not yet have equal rights. There were representatives of fifty-one countries having national council organizations located in Australia, New Zealand, the Western Hemisphere, Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. Seven new councils were admitted at the closing plenary session, bringing the total to fifty-eight countries. Observers from additional countries were also present. Among the many women of international reputation who took part, were Princess Prem Purachatra of Bankok, Thailand, who has started many welfare projects in her land, with special interest in the crippled and mentally retarded; Rachel Carson, author. Of The Sea Around Us, who was given a special citation by the National Council of 647 SEPTEMBER 1963 Women of the United States "because she has shocked men and women into an awareness of their responsibility to protect future generations." 'This was the first citation of its kind to be given to "a woman of conscience." It was presented by Dr. Janet Travell, White House physician. Princess Ashraf Pahlavi, twin sister of the Shah of Iran, was called upon to give the first report of a national president in the first plenary session, in recognition of the inauguration of the new Iranian constitution which places Iranian women, for the first time, in a position of civil and political equality with men. Two languages were recognized in all sessions — French and English; however, before another triennial meeting, Spanish translation may be added. Madame Marie-Heléne Lefaucheux retired as president at the conclusion of the conference, having presided for six years, the limit of time set by the constitution. The incoming President, Mrs. Erwin Schuller of Great Britain, has recently served as a United Nations liaison officer and has a great deal of experience in international work among women. Tue work of the International Council of Women is carried out through a board of officers headed by the president. The executive committee consists of members of the Board; presidents of national councils; and international conveners (chairmen); and vice-conveners of standing committees. The fifteen standing committees represent interests in Arts and Let- 648 ters; Child and Family; Cinema; Education; Finance; Health; Home Economics; Housing; Laws and Suffrage; Migration; Peace and International Relations; Press and Publicity; Radio and Television; Social Welfare; Trades and Professions. Five plenary sessions were held at which time needed business was transacted: hearing summarized reports from each of the national councils; reports from standing committees; voting on resolutions submitted by the standing committees; reports of (International Council of Women) representatives of other international bodies; announcements of election returns; formal affiliations of new councils; and the outgoing President's opening address and the address of the incoming President. It is informative, interesting, and enlightening to sit in meetings where opinions, discussions, and reports are made from countries of such varying economic and _ social conditions. As an example, the education committee met four times. It first reported on the carrying out of its program initiated in Istanbul, Turkey, at the last Triennial Meeting. A resolution was then introduced, sponsored by Great Britain, with an amendment by Southern Rhodesia, to encourage qualified persons as a part of their professional training to accept positions in the developing countries. This was discussed and modified and finally adopted in a plenary session. Representatives of twenty-nine countries were present at the first educational committee meeting. A member of UNESCO of the United Nations reported on a survey that it had i ee: Courtesy Washington International Press RETIRING PRESIDENT AND INCOMING PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN Retiring President Mme. Marie-Helene Lefaucheux of France (right), and incoming President Mrs. Erwin M. Schuller of Great Britain (left). OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES Mrs. Sophia Yarnall Jacobs, President (right), and Mrs. Louis J. Robbins, First Vice-President (left), seated at a plenary session. The pole at the right holds the standard of the United States National Council delegation. Courtesy Washington International Press Courtesy Washington International Press RELIEF SOCIETY REPRESENTATIVES AT THE MEETING OF THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN President Belle S. Spafford (right), and Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (left) taking notes through instant translation at a plenary session. Made on illiteracy, to find that forty-four per cent of the world adult population is illiterate and sixty-five per cent can do no more than write their name — are not able to read and write. There is an increase of twenty to twenty-five million a year of illiterates because of the children not being taught to read and write. An adult, it was stated, learns five times faster than a child, but forgets in two weeks if not given suitable reading material. In ris connection, Turkey told of the printing of a book of ABC's which pertained particularly — to women's interests instcad of a child's. 'The Indian representative suggested that other countries could profit by the mistake India made in reverting to many languages when it received its independence. They are now trying to have Eng- 650 lish as the number one language, since they cannot have enough teachers, books, or classrooms to teach in a multiplicity of languages. Instead of more than one thousand languages they now have three, and English is making a great comeback. Great Britain voiced the great lack of teachers they have; and they are beginning to get over the point to their government, that money spent on education is an investment. There is a greatly increased interest in education in England. New Zealand reported that Maoris living far from schools are now being reached by correspondence courses. Australia spoke of the great work done there with lessons on the radio. This opened a discussion on the effect of solitary learning on the personality of a child. In the plan for the next Triennium the slogan "Decade of Development" is to be implemented in education through continuing to decrease illiteracy and to work for the eradication of discrimination in education, with particular emphasis on girls and women being given the same curricula as boys and men, and for women to seck for administrative positions and policy-making ones. The Nigerian delegate received a laughing response when she declared that "if women want to hold office, then it is up to us to vote for women, instead of the majority voting for men." One problem which was stressed by delegates of many countries was the need for vocational training for teenagers not able to keep up with their classes in secondary schools. If they can continue on and learn a trade, being given a diploma for it which will give them status, the delegates felt they will not join the ever increasing ranks of dropout delinquents. In an effort to implement further the work of the Council during the three-year interim of meetings, "tegional councils" are being set up as were provided for at the Istanbul mecting. There are European, Scandinavian, a group of the Americas, an African program, and a Middle East group. There is also projected a "twinning" grouping in which a so-called "developed" country twins with one which is not so well developed. An example of this is Australia "twinning" with Thailand. Tue delegates in Washington had in mind the international meeting of women which was being held in THE SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY CONFERENCE Moscow at the same time (International Democratic Women's Federation — IDWF), probably the reason why the Russians sent up a woman in space as a publicity measure. As the days of the Washington council passed, however, the communist meeting made headlines over the disagreement of delegates, some of whom walked out. In contrast, although tense issues came before the International Council of Women, there was a pervading spirit of helpfulness and friendliness. One smiled at every other delegate and many spoke of the sisterhood of the assembled women. At the last meeting, African delegates sent a letter stating that they expected racial discrimination on their Continent to change in three years, or they would consider withdrawal from the Council. In reply, the South African delegate quoted the words of past President Lady Aberdeen "Let us look to the things that bind us and not divide us." She then stated that their Council was not their government and plead for tolerance, reminding the African Councils that she had voted to accept the African Councils which had just been admitted to membership. The matter was then dropped in good spirit. It was a matter of regret to many that no meeting was opened by prayer. It was noteworthy, moreover, that whenever gratitude to Deity or an expression of his goodness to his children was expressed in a talk or report, applause followed. Of special interest to Latter-day Saints was a resolution which was sponsored by the Health Commit- 651 SEPTEMBER 1963 tee and accepted in a plenary session that "The International Council of Women's Health Committee urges the Health Committees of the National Councils of Women to intensify their educational efforts to inform the public in general and young people in particular regarding the health hazards of cigarette smoking." 'The few women who smoked during the sessions were in marked contrast to other Triennials. Delegates from all over the world expressed appreciation to the National Council of Women of the United States for all the Council had done to make possible this meeting, assisting delegates financially and providing excellent housing for the Triennial meeting. One delegate expressed her thanks for the "United States' warm and sisterly welcome, which has taught tenderness, delicacy, beauty, sensitivity, and sacrifice." Mirs. Sophia Yarnall Jacobs, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, provided outstanding, gracious leadership. She was tireless in planning and carrying out desired activities, from visits to enrich professional interests to purely enjoyable functions. The opening buffet dinner was tendered by the National Council of Women of the United States. A tour of public rooms in the White House, with the delegates being received by Mrs. Auchincloss, mother of Mrs. Kennedy, was of great interest. Visits to art galleries; urban housing developments; artist studios; hospitality in Washington residents' homes; an address by Esther Peterson, Undersecretary of 652 Labor, and a slide presentation of a few fields of employment for women in the United States at the Labor Department; and music entertainment were among the many scheduled affairs. A woman's touch was noted in the artistic arrangements of beautiful flowers provided for the meetings. The closing event was a reception and buffet dinner given to the delegates by the State Department in its building. Mrs. Rusk, wife of the Secretary of State, received in the long drawing room. 'Three crystal chandeliers highlighted the green of the walls and rare pictures and furniture of the Colonial period. The buffet supper was served in the great dining room overlooking the Potomac River, with the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials standing out among the sea of treetops. In the dining room six exquisite crystal chandeliers highlighted the colorful, lustrous dresses of five hundred women of many nations and shone on the gleaming marble walls with black marble pilasters. 'The Creat Seal of the United States, in gold, adorned the far wall. Golden draperies at the high windows and a golden-hued, deep-pile carpet accented the elegance of the room and the elegance of the occasion. One came away from this Seventyfifth Anniversary Triennial feeling the sisterhood of all women, and with an enhanced awareness of the world situation and the problems facing women world wide, many of which are common to all. There also came to one a reaffirmation of the inherent goodness of women and the God-implanted virtue of service to fellow beings. Christie Lund Coles Ss os nw £ te _o™ g % Q. A 5 _ 9 - © a) ££ 3 9 wt of ~ ® i Oo © cs 2 9 £ @ 2 c 5 @ ac 0 @ ae o c '- - "C c So. >. And b d dspen trees inne Y Lorenzo Snow, the fifth President of the Church, was born in Mantua, Portage County, Ohio, April 3, 1814. He was the son of Oliver and Rosetta Snow. Lorenzo's sister, Eliza R. Snow, joined the Church when Lorenzo was a youth; when he reached the age of twenty-two, he also allied himself with the organization. He went to Kirtland and became a Close friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith; he also filled a mission in Ohio, Kentucky, and Missouri. In 1840 he filled a mission for the Church in England, which continued for nearly three years. After the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in 1844, Lorenzo followed the leadership of President Brigham Young in the move to the West. In 1849 he was made a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. He then filled a three-year mission for the Church in Italy. In 1853 Lorenzo moved to Bngham City, Box Elder County, Utah, where he made a permanent home. He remained there until he was called to be president of the Salt Lake Temple in 1893. After the death of President Wilford Woodruff, in September 1898, Lorenzo Snow became the President 654 IV — President Lorenzo Snow Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian of the Church. He presided until his death in October 1901. In a sketch of the Prophet Joseph Smith, which Lorenzo Snow wrote in 1850, when he served as president of the Italian Mission, there is a brief description of the early life of the Prophet, as follows: "Joseph Smith, Junior, whom it pleased the Lord to select and appoint to restore the primitive gospel, and apostolic priesthood, was born in 1805, in Vermont, United States. When about fifteen years of age, being seriously impressed with the necessity of seeking the Lord and preparing for a future state, his mind became much perplexed through difficulties thrown in the path of his researches by the multitude of religious sects and parties with which he was surrounded. Each system required belief, and gave hope, but none could communicate a knowledge of its divine authority. In comparing them, one with another, there seemed to be too much confusion; the same appeared in looking at each separately. "Turning therefore from these clashing systems, and being encouraged and inspired with the following passage in St. James, 'If any of you lack wisdom let him ask of God,' he retired to a grove a little distance from his father's house, and in fervent prayer besought the Lord to communicate with him and reveal the way of salvation. While thus engaged, a light brilliant and glorious appeared in the heavens, gradually descending towards him till he was enveloped in it and wrapped in celestial vision; when he beheld two glorious beings, similar in dress and appearance, who informed him that the religious sects had all departed from the ancient doctrine of the apostles, and that the gospel with its gifts and blessings should be made known to him at a future period. Many important things were manifested in this vision which the brevity of this work will not permit to notice. "On the evening of the twentyfirst of September 1823, having retired to rest, his mind became filled with anxious desires to receive the information which he had been previously promised. While engaged in prayer and striving to exercise faith, the room became filled with light far surpassing that of noonday, but in the midst thereof appeared an additional glory surrounding a person whose countenance was as lightning, yet so full of goodness and innocence and of such a glorious appearance as to banish all apprehension. He announced himself as an angel of God, commissioned to inform him that the covenant with ancient Israel touching their posterity should soon be accomplished — that the great work preparatory to the second coming of Messiah should speedily commence, and the plenitude of the gospel be made known to all nations. He also inHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW formed him that the aborigines of America were a remnant of Israel who, when they first inhabited that land, enjoyed the ministry of inspired men; that records of the most important events in their history had been preserved from their first settlement down to the period of their national degeneracy; that these records had been concealed in the earth by one of their last Prophets, and a promise of the Lord given that they should be revealed in the last days. "The following day the angel returned and instructed Mr. Smith to go to the place where the sacred records were deposited" (The Biography and Autobiography of Lorenzo Snow by his sister Er1za R. SNow, pp. 136-138). 655 \NYONE who might have seen Hildy Carlson as she marched resolutely down Main Street that morning would have thought, now, there goes a woman with a purpose. And they would have been right about Hildy. They also would have thought her younger than the sixty vears she was. In fact, this morning Hildy herself felt so new, she was almost reborn. She had a spring to her step, and she breathed in the fresh, clean air with new savor. She enjoyed the familiarity of Main Street even though she saw it now with greater clarity and observation than before. Hildy slowed her step as she rounded the corner to the Elite Beauty Salon. She paused for a moment before the window and peered in at the neat row of hair dryers. It was still early and no one as yet sat under them. 'They reminded her of cocoons — a shell 656 — e » Dorothea J. Neilson \ into which something unlovely withdrew only to emerge later much improved. 'Then she entered the shop and stepped up to the desk. "Good morning. I'm Hildy Carlson. You have a nine o'clock appointment for me." Looking at her appointment pad and up at Hildy, the receptionist smiled. "Yes, we do — it's a re styling job, isn't it?" Hildy nodded in agreement and smiled back. "Jane, your nine o'clock appointment is here," called the receptionist. Hildy waited until Jane appeared and was pleased to find that she looked to be an agreeable young lady. She followed Jane to her booth and sat down in the chair that was held out for her in front of the vanity table.. "You wished to have your hair restyled, Mrs. Carlson. Is there any- thing particular you have in mind?" "Well, not exactly," hesitated Hildy. "But I do want it arranged so that Ill be able to dress it myself." 'The firm determination was back again as soon as she had spoken. "You see, I'm somewhat troubled with arthritis in my shoulder and find it difficult to hold my arms up to set my hair. A neighbor has been doing it in pin curls for me for years, but I'd like to relieve her of this job, so if you could style it so I could." While Hildy had been speaking, Jane had been studying her face and her hair, and now she interrupted, "There are lots of ladies in your predicament, Mrs. Carlson, and I know just how we can help you. You have lovely thick hair, and there is also a nice natural wave to it. J think we can cut and style it for you so that a few wave clips will be all you will need to set it with. I really believe you'll be quite pleased with the results. Does that sound all night?" "That sounds just wonderful. I really do want to be able to fix it myself." While the work was in progress, Hildy had time to reflect on the chain of circumstances that brought her to the beauty shop. It had begun years ago. She supposed it really began with George's illness. He was sick for so long before he died that she had lost most of her optimism and high spirits in those sad years. When her husband finally died, she felt as though she, too, was no longer alive, but the necessity of making a home for her two sons transcended the grief, and Hildy did what she had to do to THE RESTYLING keep the httle family together. Uncle Leo was so good to help them and the Church had given a helping hand, too. When the boys were able they had worked hard, unselfish of their own desires. 'Their mother always came first. Hildy had. Been so proud of them — she still was! And so it went through the years, until the boys were now away from home — George, Jr. Was married and in college, and Mike was in Europe with the army, but they still faithfully sent her money each month for her needs. Hildy busied herself around the house and worked in her garden. Many said it was the prettiest in the neighborhood because of her artful color arrangement in placing the plants and flowers, but Hildy wasn't happy. Last Saturday while she was at Fay Ellis', as usual, getting her hair set, she had unburdened herself to Fay. Goodness knows, Fay had enough to think about with her five little ones and her husband gone so much of the time, but Hildy had to talk to someone. She had told Fay that she felt so purposeless and also rather hurt that George, Jr. And his Edie didn't come to visit more often. She knew how busy he was with school and all, and Edie working to help him through, but they really didn't live so many miles away. Fay was thoughtful as she set the neat rows of pin curls in Hildy's hair. Then Fay's brow furrowed. "Hildy, do you mind if I ask you a question?" Hildy felt a vague uneasiness. She knew how forthright Fay could be. "No, of course not." "What do you talk about when 657 SEPTEMBER 1963 George and Edie are visiting?" "Why Il I don't know, nothing special." "Do you tell them how your shoulders hurt after you've worked in the garden" (Hildy's mouth began to open in surprise, but Fay went on), "and that your arthritis is acting up again, and that if only their father were still alive...?" Hildy's mouth opened and closed in surprise. "Do you?" Fay really wanted to know. "Why, yes, I guess I do... Sometimes." "Sometimes?" It was Fay again. "Well... But how did you...?" Fay broke in again, "Hildy, you and I have been neighbors for ten years. I guess I've heard the same thing quite often." "Oh!" Hildy felt crushed. "Now, don't go and feel hurt. I love you, you know, and really want you to be happy." Fay was now in her lecturing position, one hand on her hip, the other hand, holding the comb, was pointed directly at her, the comb like a great white extension of the pointed finger. Hildy was glad to know Fay loved her. It helped. Fay went on, "Honestly, now, Hildy Carlson, you could do so much more with your life. Here you are only sixty" (Fay was young and she said sixty as though she thought that was still young, too) "and you act like you're an old, old lady! What do you do with your talents?" "I don't have any talents," said Hildy quietly. "Oh, bosh. Everybody does. They may be underdeveloped, but they are there. You have a good sense 658 of balance and color. How many times has Ferris Crowther tried to get you to go to that community art class with him?" (Hildy remained silent, as she knew Fay well enough not to interrupt her while she was getting her mind spoken.) "He's lonely just the way you are since his wife died, and he's such a fine man.' (Hildy silently agreed to that point. Ferris was a very fine man.) "And, furthermore, what have you done to help yourself? 'There is Edie, working to put George, Jr. Through college and to send you some money 1" each month, and you let them! Tus time Hildy spoke up, "But, Fay, what could I do, at my age, and with no formal training?" "You'd find loads of things to do once you got started on the possibilities, and you know what —. Il bet you'd feel lots better, too — being busy keeps your mind off of lots of things, including discomfort." Apparently Fay was finished for the moment because she again began working on the pin curls. Hildy was glad she had the back of her head to Fay. She wouldn't want her to see the hurt in her eyes and the tears that wanted to come. A painful silence followed before Fay broke it. "Hildy, you're not hurt, are you?" Hildy tried to explain with conviction, "No... I'm just thinking, Fay." When the hair dressing was finished, Fay had said, "Just a minute, Hildy, I want to get you something." She returned with a recent issue of a national magazine. "There are some very interesting things in this issue. Perhaps you'd enjoy reading them." They parted at the door, Fay saying cheerily, "See you in the morning, about eight." (That was when Fay would comb out and arrange her hair for church.) Hildy's steps were leaden as she walked home. Too upset by their conversation to eat supper, she had gone immediately to bed, taking the proferred magazine with her. Scanning the table of contents, one listing an article on geriatrics caught her attention and she turned to it. Many of the words blurred before her eyes as she was still thinking about her conversation with Fay, but some of the phrases stood out from the pages as if they had been outlined in bold type... "preoccupied with their aches and pains. Not prepared for old age allowing minds to become stagnant." Was she like that? Did her children feel like that about her? Hildy tossed in her bed restlessly, examining her thoughts. Stagnant. A terrible word. Everybody knew what a stagnant pond was like — its inhabitants not much _ appreciated. Could a mind become like that, truly? Such a contrast to the clear crystal stream where fish darted like quicksilver arrows in its ripples. Work. The Church leaders often said something about re-enthroning work, and idleness being a curse. Was it hers? Self-respect. Independence. Had she been, or was she like these people she had read about? Was Fay right? I want to be happy, thought Hildy, I want to be respected, useful, giving of myself, but how... How? Hildy ached THE RESTYLING — not with pain this night, but with regret for the wasted years of the past that could have been better — with wanting for greater personal happiness. Finally, still unable to sleep, Hildy had crawled out of bed again and down on her knees. "Heavenly Father, please help me. Show me the way to brighter horizons...." Sleep came easier after that, and in the morning she had made the beauty appointment first thing. Now she was brought up quickly to the present by Jane's query, "Mrs. Carlson, how about a slight blue rinse to your hair? It would give the gray some lovely highlights." Well, why not? This was going to be the new Hildy. "Yes, I think that would be very nice." The hair styling completed, Hildy was amazed and pleased with the results. It was very becoming and she knew she could do it herself at home almost as well. Wouldn't Fay be surprised? Hildy spied Bishop Jenkins as she was going down the block on her way home. She hurried her step in order to catch up with him. "Bishop!" PO, Sister Carlson, I almost didn't recognize you. How good of you to stop me." "Bishop, I've heard there is a real shortage of Primary teachers. I know I'm not as young as most of them are, but would you... Do you think I could be considered for a job in the Primary?" "Why, Sister Black will be delighted to hear about this. I'm sure you will be hearing from us. Thank you so much for volunteering." 659 SEPTEMBER 1963 Hildy hurried home, her heart already lighter. She proceeded to the next step of the plan she had worked out in her turmoil two nights before. She dialed Betty Williams' home. Betty was a recent widow with a three-year-old child. She had been looking for weeks for someone to care for little Carol so she could go to work part time to help to support them. "Betty, this is Hildy Carlson. Have you found anyone yet to tend Carol while you work?" "No. And there is a job opening with good pay that I can qualify for. I'm almost desperate. Do you know of anyone?" "Yes. Hildy Carlson!" "You? Why I thought your arthritis... Would you really? I'd be so relieved to have Carol with someone like you." "It's all settled then. You go ahead and get your job and let me know the arrangements when you're ready." As she hung up, Hildy again experienced the glow that came from making someone else glad. She wouldn't earn a great deal, but it would certainly help, and she planned to take some of her handiwork down to the Craft Shop to see if they would buy it. People were always saying that Hildy Carlson did beautiful work. Perhaps the people at the Craft Shop would think so, too. Wouldn't George, Jr. And Edie be surprised one of these days when she returned their check? Two days ago Hildy had wondered if Fay really did love her — after all, that was quite a Scotch blessing she had received! Now she knew Fay had meant what she said, 660 or she wouldn't have wanted to help, and she had helped! Hildy decided it was a good time to relax, now that her hair was done and the arrangements made with Betty Williams. She went out on the lawn and surveyed her little domain. She really did have a nice home and yard. 'Today she saw this more clearly than ever before and yet nothing had really changed. "No, there's where you're wrong, Hildy," she told herself. "You have changed." 'The air smelled so good, Hildy stood straighter to breathe more deeply. H'mmm. Had her shoulders ached yet today? She had to admit she really hadn't noticed. Too busy so far. Ferris Crowther just then came down the walk and studied _ her. "Well, Hildy, what have you done to yourself? You look different today." "It's my hair. Do you approve?" "TH say. Listen, I'm going to town in a few minutes. Is there anything you need to get? You're welcome to ride along." "No, thank you." Hildy stopped short. "Wait! Yes, there is! I do believe I'd like to try painting — just for fun — to see if I can mix colors on paper as well as in my garden. Would you be willing to help me pick out some beginners' supplies?" Ferris Crowther said, "I'd be delighted. You'll love painting. A whole new horizon will open up to you." Hildy thought happily, as she went into the house for her purse, it already has — that brighter horizon I prayed for. That was quite a restyling I got! IMizs. ETHEL PERCY ANDRUS, President of the National Retired Teachers Association and the American Association of Retired Persons, in June at an area conference in Salt Lake City, Utah, presented a citation for "significant and valued contributions to the enrichment of retirement living," to the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. President Belle S. Spafford received the citation for Relief Society. In addressing the conference, Mrs. Andrus declared that older people should be recognized as constructive citizens who have much experience, knowledge, and pioneering spirit to give to their communities. A RECENT IssuE of the Saturday Review devoted a special section to "The Education of Women," with articles by a number of male and female educators. Statistically it was noted that women in the United States receive thirty-six per cent of all bachelor's and first professional degrees, thirty-one per cent of all master's degrees, and eleven per cent of all Ph. D. Degrees. However, it was pointed out, only six per cent of the medical doctors in the country are women, and two and one-half per cent of the qualified lawyers are women. This is a much lower percentage than the ratios of women doctors and lawyers in Canada and several European countries. Mirs. LEONA HUBER, Mesa, Arizona, received the "Mesa Artist of the Year" award in May 1963. Mrs. Huber is a noted violinist and a former member of the Women's Symphony Orchestra of Los Angeles, California. Her musical activities in Mesa have included participation in organizing a musicians' Club, being a partner in a music store, and playing violin solos for church meetings, community events, and wedding receptions. Mrs. Huber is a Latter-day Saint, and her string ensemble has played over the Church radio program in Phoenix for over two years. IRITA VAN DOREN, eminent literary critic, who has been editor of the New York Herald Tribune section on Books, since 1926, has now become Editor Emeritus, and has joined the publishing firm of William Morrow and Company as editorial consultant, where she will continue her lifetime role of encouraging good writing and good writers. 661 EDITORIAL (\ Understanding } Fteart ¢ cay FOND dream of childhood is to be allowed to have one wish granted. Aladdin and his wonderful lamp and fairy tales of many other countries hold forth this tantalizing promise. But one learns that care must be exercised in making the wish, for the fisherman's wife was so dissatisfied and greedy that after her wishes were granted she ended up with just what she had in the beginning. Holy Writ teaches a lesson to everyone who would have one wish granted. In a dream Solomon was asked the gift he would seek from the Lord. The wish he made indicates that he had evaluated his strengths and weaknesses. He had carefuly considered his position as the new king of the numberless people making up the kingdom his father David had left him. As Solomon began to state his wish to the Lord, he first expressed his filial piety, and then pleaded with the Lord, "Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge the people, that I may discern between good and bad." 662 Ser)" C, Sharp, Fira! Counseic e W. Madsen, Second Céunselo! Potker. Secretary-Trestsurer This wish was one of selflessness, one to help Solomon assist others in truth. We read "the speech pleased the Lord," and he gave to Solomon, in addition to a wise and understanding heart, riches and honor and long life if he would walk in the path of the Lord, all of which wishes Solomon had not asked for himself. A wish cherished by a Latter-day Saint mother would also be to have an understanding heart to guide her in the rearing of her children — to see below the surface of their words and actions, to know when apparent tebelliousness needs curbing and when it manifests a hurt within the child which cries out for an extension of love and appreciation and encouragement. An understanding heart will lighten the service of a Relief Society officer who will overlook any weaknesses and failings of those whom she is called to serve, and who will appreciate their strengths and struggles instead. An understanding heart will encourage a Relief Society sister to be a better neighbor, to dismiss hurt feelings, to look for the good and never expose the weakness of another. Christ possesses the perfect understanding heart. In his ministry he condemned the evil but not the sinner, holding forth forgiveness through repentance. When Peter denied knowing the Christ, the account reads, "And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter." What a depth of love and sorrow and understanding must have been in that glance, for the account continues, "And Peter went out, and wept bitterly." How can a Latter-day Saint woman gain an understanding heart? Solomon showed forth humility, prayer, and a desire to serve. He "loved the Lord." He said, "I am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come in." 'Too often today one does not know "how to go out or come in.' An open mind, a prayerful spirit, humility, patience, and love are all to be found in an understanding heart — a precious gift of the Lord to the dedicated seeker. —M. C. S. 663 Thoughts ofa New Member Rosina Victoria Risley Wriry shortly after my family joined the Church, I was met in the hall one Sunday morning after Sunday School by Sister Mary Collins, President of the Columbus Ward Relief Society. Sister Collins introduced herself and invited me to attend the Relief Society meetings. I answered with all the pet excuses at my command: "I have small children, you know." "My husband's work takes him out of town frequently, and I have no one to leave the children with." "Your meeting day is a bad day for me anyway, since my Girl Scout troop meets that afternoon, and by evening I'm just too tired to attend a meeting." Sister Collins was undismayed by my excuses and invited me to come any evening that I was free to do so. Then, one meeting evening, the opportunity presented itself, and I attended a meeting. I came with foreboding; I left with joy. I spent a delightful evening in the company of good-hearted, friendly sisters. I was surprised to learn that the lesson for that evening dealt with the life and poetry of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Every sister present joined in the discussion which followed the lesson. Here, unbeliev- 664 ably, I had found an ideal women's organization. But my surprises were not over. As I continued to attend the meetings, the story of the Relief Society unfolded before me. I learned of the work of the visiting teachers; at testimony meeting I saw sisters rise and thank each other for the helping hands extended to them during illness, childbirth, and bereavement. I soon learned that I could strengthen my faith by the theology lesson, return to my college days with the literature lesson and the beautiful poetry that had once meant so much to me, but had since been forgotten in the rush of mothering two children. The social science lesson, the lessons on Attitudes and Manners — all seemed to be devised to help me become a better person — a better Latter-day Saint. This then is the Relief Society, named with the most appropriate of names. For if you look up the word relief in the dictionary, you will see that it means "... The lessening of, or freedom from, a pain, burden or difficulty; something that makes a pleasing change or lessens strain." All of this is the Relief Society to me. To the meetings I bring the cares and worries of the day — but I leave them at the door. Here my burdens seem lighter, as I join with my sisters in working together to aid a less fortunate one. Here I make that pleasing change from a housewife to the relaxing and stimulating environment of a theology, literature, or social science lesson. Here I lessen the strain of the modern-day life I lead. THOUGHTS OF A NEW MEMBER The Relief Society has meant a great deal to me in the past few months, but of greater importance to me are the years that lie ahead yet to unfold for me, wherein I may, with my sisters of the Relief Society, serve those who need our help, while we learn, while we listen, while we grow — aS women, as wives, as mothers, and as Latter-day Saints. The Stars Are There Grace Barker Wilson Across the desert sands will break the dawn, The silver moon fade out before the day; But beauty in my heart will linger on Of shining lights across the far sky way. The Pleiades and Milky Way hang tall, Polaris never leaves his ancient post; Though sun shines now, I know when shadows fall The stars are there when I shall need them most. | Wait and Wonder Caroline Eyring Miner You were so eager to be out the door — The minutes dragged for you on leaden feet. My last born, others have been six before, But with a difference, for you, my sweet, Are now my last. Alone I'll wait for you. But you will linger longer as the days Go by; the ties will stretch as shadows do As thin as mist, still there in evening's haze. Yet I was born for this to train you so To walk with help, and then to walk alone, Straight as a flint-tipped arrow free to go. And yet I hold to you in thoughts, my own. As Mary waited for her Son's return, I wait and wonder with my own concern. 665 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, and his mother Tutu, and the children Philip, Pixie, Bo, and Benjy, who live on a pincapple plantation on the island of Maui, go to Honolulu to meet the eldest daughter Emma Lu, who has graduated as a nurse, and is returning home. Emma Lu tells her mother that she has two surprises. Margaret, Luana's sister-inlaw, a childless woman who has achieved success as an artist, has arrived with Emma Lu for a visit at the pineapple plantation. The other surprise is that Emma Lu has become engaged to a Sherman Grant in San Francisco. Ml "Bas is Waikiki," Ben explained to Margaret, as they all walked toward the dazzling white beach. They had rented a room at the Princess 666 Kaiulani Hotel so they would have a place to change into their bathing suits. Philip led the way, his eyes eager and excited. "Look, Aunt Margaret," he exclaimed, waving his arms. "This beach goes from the War Memorial in the lee of Diamond Head to the Yacht Club Harbor." "Such white sand!' Margaret answered. "Like glistening crystal." Pixie tucked her arm under Margaret's, as they hurried along. "We call it the mile of romance," she added with her cute little smile. "Fun, laughter, and music. You can hear every kind of rhythm on Waikiki from old Hawaiian to shuffling hula. Just listen, Aunt Margaret." She rolled her eyes heavenward, lifting her arms, too. "T love Waikiki," she said. "The sun is brighter, the moon is bigger, the sky is bluer, the waves are higher than anywhere else in our islands!" Tutu, who was holding Ben's arm, clicked her tongue reprovingly. "That is not quite fair, my Pixie," she said, gently. "Each of our islands has its own magic. None of them can claim to have more beauty or allure than another. You have only to stop and listen on any island to hear music. Always music. Even from the land-shells on the trees in some places." "But, Tutu, dear," Philip said, his eyes twinkling, "you have to admit that Waikiki has a magic all its own. Daddy permits us to come here only once a year, but that's something. We dream about it for the next twelve months. I'd like to live right here on Waikiki. One holiday here isn't enough." Luana looked at Ben. Grew serious. "Once a year is quite enough," he said. "You know, Margaret," he added, "most people on the Mainland think that life in Hawaii is all fun. All play and no work. Nothing could be further from the truth. The workaday world of a real Hawaiian family is just as demanding as anywhere else, and Latter-day Saint parents uphold a high standard for their children." "They certainly do!" Philip agreed. "And we try to live up to it." His eyes KISS OF THE WIND an affectionate arm around Ben's_ shoulder. "Look, Dad," he coaxed. "Let's have fun today. 'Tomorrow we can worry about the pines and the payroll and next year's crop. Okay?" "Okay, son," Ben said, smiling again. "Where do you want to surf-ride? You choose the spot for yourselves, Pixie, and Emma Lu. I'll take your mother, 'Tutu, Margaret, and the boys with me. We'll go canoe-surfing."' "Let us ride with Phil!" Benjy wailed. I don't want to ride this sissy Old surf in front of this sissy old clubhouse!" "Neither do I!" Bo echoed. "We want to go up toward Diamond Head, Daddy. The waves are faster and trickier up there." He flung Ben turned around, facing his family. "Now, listen,' he said. "Aunt Margaret is our guest. Surfriding is new to her. We want her to enjoy it, but we must show her the easy way first. 'That means surfcanoeing. Even that is quite an experience for a newcomer." "Please let me watch," Margaret protested. "Really, Ben I'd_ rath-? Are.. "Nonsense," he laughed. "You'll love the canoe. Tutu always goes." "Tutu used to be an expert," Benjy said. "One time she could even ride Thundering Castle, and that's only for experts. But now she's old she hkes a canoe. That's for old people and sissies." "Benjy!" Ben's voice was reproving. "I like to canoe. I'm neither old nor a sissy." Everybody laughed. Emma Lu, standing beside her mother, reached 667 SEPTEMBER 1963 for Ben's hand. "Listen, Daddy," she coaxed. "Let Phil and me take charge of the boys. They love the higher waves. We'll take care of them." Ben looked at the heavy, surging waves for a few minutes before he answered. Luana could see they were higher and faster than usual, and they would be even higher further up the beach. But Emma Lu and Philip were expert surf-riders, and Pixie could do very well by herself. "We can ride behind Phil," Benjy pleaded. "Please, Daddy." Ben shrugged his shoulders, as he turned to Luana. "What do you say, Luana?" he questioned. "Think it's all right?" Luana nodded her dark head. "Yes, I do," she said, "if they do what Phil tells them to do." Suddenly Philip, who had been watching the breakers as they rolled in, let out a loud yell. "Hurray! There he is. Everybody!" The Harrington family took a long, deep breath together. A stalwart surf-rider was coming in on a high wave. It was Larry Brown! '"He's my surprise for you, Emma Lu!" Phil said, turning to his sister. "He asked me to bring you to this very spot." Larry Brown was a magnificent surf-rider. He rode the huge splashing waves like a master sportsman. Even Tutu's eyes sparkled with admiration. "He does cut a figure!" Emma Lu murmured. "As if nding a white stallion." Luana glanced quickly at Emma Lu. Pink roses were in her cheeks, Look, 668 and stars glistened in her eyes. Oh, no, Luana thought, her heart sickening. Emma Lu has promised to marry another boy. It's not right that she should still feel this way about Larry Brown. How could a daughter of hers be so disloyal? Luana bent her head and closed her eyes. She could not bear to watch them. Benjy yelled, "Whoopee! It's Larry Brown! Come on, Bo. Let's run to him." Luvana looked at Ben. He seemed quite pleased about everything, even that Emma Lu was so elated to see Larry again. But Ben did not know that his daughter was engaged to another boy, because no one had told him. Ben welcomed Larry in his big, heartwarming way, then he introduced him to Margaret. Tutu's voice was softly praising, as she told Larry that his surf-riding would have charmed old King Kamehameha himself! "Hello, Mrs. Harrington," Larry said when he stood before Luana. His voice had a fascinating quality as though he had a special hello for her. "It's good to see you again. It's like old times." "Hello, Larry," she answered, forcing a smile. She couldn't blame any woman for thinking Larry Brown was someone special. His eyes were as blue as Hawaiian skies. The top of Emma Lwu's_ brown head came just to his shoulder, and she was a tall girl. She looks so plain beside him, Luana thought. Her mother-heart knew instinctively that if Emma Lu married Larry, she would live only in his shadow. He was the kind of man who took the spotlight wherever he went. Emma Lu was a lovable, capable girl, but she was not beautiful. How could she compete with the girls she had seen Larry with in pictures in the newspapers, in swimming contests, skin-diving, and airplane stunts. Why did he pursue a girl like Emma Lu, she wondered, as she watched them talking together. Then her heart answered. Maybe he loved her. Maybe they really loved each other. They had been schoolday sweethearts. In that case — Luana's breath caught in her throat. What about Sherman Grant in San Francisco? What of his diamond ning Emma Lu was wearing around her neck? Her only answer was Emma Lu's gay laughter and the roar and swish of the waves as they broke on the white sand. Ben called to them as they ran up the beach. "Now you folks get back here by dinnertime!" "Okay!" Philip yelled, as they raced away, leaving Ben, 'Tutu, Margaret, and Luana looking after them longingly. Only Benjy turned to wave and throw her a kiss. "Goodbye, Mamma," he called. "Here's a kiss, everybody." It was always Benjy who never forgot to express his love. "Come on, Dope!" she heard Bo yell to him. "Well" Ben said, squaring his big, easy shoulders. His grave, wise eyes were wistful. "Makes a man wish he were a boy again, when his children rush off to the big breaki KISS OF THE WIND Then he turned to Margaret, smiling again. "You'll like canoe-surfing,' he said. "It's a great sport." "Tll love it!" Margaret laughed. "T know I will." Margaret's enthusiasm was always a joy, Luana thought, gratefully. Ben selected a glossy black canoe from the row of canoes lying on the beach. It was a long koa log hollowed out with a rail line of bright orange. It rented for two dollars for three rides. "It has to have at least three persons in it," the owner told them. He was a bright-faced Hawaiian boy. "There are four of us," Ben said. "I can guide it myself," he added proudly. "Tll help you paddle out toward the big breakers," the boy offered. On the way out to meet the waves, Tutu explained canoe-surfing to Margaret. "Canoes here in Hawaii," she said, "are the offspring of the peleleu or war canoe. The Portuguese used to take a seventy-foot log, hollow it to a depth and beam of three feet. It could carry from sixty to eighty warriors." "How fast can a canoe go?" Margaret asked. "I always thought they were the slowest kind of travel." "You'll see!" Ben laughed. "The speed of a surfboard or a canoe is the speed of the wave. I'll wait for a little, easy wave for the first nde." Even though Ben waited until a shallow wave came along, it was a wonderfully exciting ride. The oncoming wave caught the canoe at exactly the mght angle, and up it went, then down again in a rollick- 669 SEPTEMBER 1963 ing, roller-coaster fashion. There was a glorious cloudburst of spray that showered them all over. Tutu tossed her head back, laughing and clapping her hands as the foaming water roared around them. "What fun!" she cried when they reached shore again. "You caught that one just right, Ben." "T sure did!" he agreed. "Hope I do as well next time." Margaret mopped her face with the towel the canoe attendant handed to her. "IT loved it," she gasped. "I wouldn't have missed that ride for anvthing." "Sometimes we tip over," Luana said. "If the wave doesn't catch us just exactly nght — flop! We're in a somersault. But it's all fun. We took the children even when they were babies." "It's part of our Hawai," Tutu murmured. Her voice was weak and trembled slightly. "One ride is enough for you, Mother," Ben said kindly. "T've had enough, too," Margaret said. "All right," Ben agreed. "You and 'Tutu can stroll over to the hotel and rest awhile. We'll meet you there later." Arrer they were gone, and Luana was alone with Ben, she wondered if she should tell him about Emma Lu's engagement. But the roar and swish of the waves made serious talking almost impossible. She couldn't shout a confidence like that. Anyway, Ben would be hurt and angry if Emma Lu did not tell him herself. And he would expect Sherman Grant to ask permission 670 to marry his daughter, even though some couples in these modern days overlooked that important occasion. Ben was having such a good time, she thought as they paddled the canoe out again. His head was tossed back in a boyish carefree way and his eyes and face were radiant in the bright sunshine. He had forgotton his cares and worry for this one short time. She could not bear to disturb him. Later, when they were all in the dining-room, dressed in their best clothes and ready for dinner, she wished with all her heart that she had taken advantage of that opportunity, because Ben, unknowingly, had invited Larry to have dinner with them. In spite of her worry about Emma Lu, Luana looked around at everyone at their table with a mother's pride. Ben always insisted that they dine at the best places. Even their twin boys, hungry as little wolves after their strenuous day, were acting like little gentlemen. They were adorable in their new suits and white shirts that had been their presents when they became deacons. Pixie's brown hair was still damp from sea water. But it was quite pretty tonight, Luana thought, noticing the little tendrils that curled around her chubby, sunburnt face. Philip, very correctly dressed in dark trousers and white coat, was seated between Ben and Tutu. He is such a gentleman, she thought. He would be a credit to his family and his Church anywhere in the world. Tutu, revived after her rest, was as gay as an armful of flowers. Luana's dark eyes shadowed, as she watched Emma Lu and Larry. He hummed along with the orchestra, tapping his knife against his water glass. He whispered to Emma Lu, and her cheeks pinked up. They radiated a sort of lilting joy — it was in their tinkling laughter. And they laughed at everything. Larry was now the twins' hero. Pixie's, too. They would all love to have Larry for their brother. Woen the waiter, a courteous, slender-faced Oriental, served their stuffed fish, surrounded by braised vegetables of every variety, Luana felt suddenly sick. Quietly she excused herself and hurried to the ladies' lounge. Tutu followed her. "What is troubling you, my Luana?" she questioned. "My heart tells me there is something wrong." "There is, Tutu," Luana answered. "Our Emma Lu told me she is engaged. 'To a man in San Francisco, Sherman Grant, an architect. She expects to be married in the Temple at Laie sometime this summer. Her father does not know about it." Tutu was very quiet. Luana saw her swallow and wet her lips, but her eyes did not flinch. At last she spoke in her tolerant way. "T am willing to trust my Emma Lu," she said. "I will not doubt her judgment nor her discretion unKISS OF THE WIND til I have more reason to do so. I have been young, Luana. I have heard music in a man's voice that made my heart sing with joy. And yet — I waited for wisdom to tell me when I had met the right one. Emma Lu has had wonderful parents, a good home, religious training all of her life. You should trust her more, Luana." Luana drew a long breath. "TI will try, Tutu," she said. "Thank you for reminding me. But Larry fascinates people. Even Pixie and the boys are carried away with him." "I know," Tutu nodded, as she smiled wisely. "Even I am carried away, too, Luana. But my feet are still on the ground." When they returned to the dining room, Larry and Emma Lu were dancing together as though they had forgotten everyone else in_ the world. Ben, leaving his dinner untouched, was watching them with a resigned expression in his dark eyes. He held Luana's chair for her. "We must accept him, dear," he said in a low voice. "If he is our daughter's love, we must try to find the good that she sees in him." Luana could not answer him. She sipped her mint and _ pineapple punch. Her mother-heart was heavy with apprehension. (To be continued) Slow Weather Gilean Douglas Now is the slow time of autumn weather: Days made for dreaming, nights made for sleep. Here is the mist and a leaf and a feather; Here is the river, darkling and deep, With the gray cords of rain to bind them together. 671 smilie. Toa = — Placein Normandy — = Claire Noall = eerese Scenic Transparencies by the Author é —e Fa la mi Sosing the bells of Corneville. Pr ster the cxcitement of Paris, how my husband and I enjoyed the leather-apron atmosphere of a country inn in Normandy! In the city our hotel had been the former palace of a princess. The contrast between the hotel and the inn was enchanting. Before we retired in this half-timbered house on a knoll drenched with the perfume of cress and appleblossoms, we not only heard the bells, we saw them played in an Arcadian tower. The next day we would pursue our way to the sea to find the far-famed tapestry of Matilda, at Bayeux. In eight colors, the story of the Conquest of England by William, husband of Queen Matilda, is embroidered on a 231-foot long panel. On a morning of June, as we drove away from the heightened heartbeat of Paris, we sought the valley of the Seine. The river had been the first line of travel to central France. At the Ile de la Cité, it intersected the north-south land routes of tribal peoples. As we drove down the valley, we visited in Rouen the Square of Joan of Arc, with her lovely statue, and with our memory of her visions, of her voices. Again, in the timbered houses that face her square, we felt the march of time. 672 —- —— oa - Se IE an) HC iia I tar gs 'i Meare te. See ¢ Market Place on the Way to Rouen Raney As the day passed, I saw my husband's shoulders commencing to sag. I must say, however, that the fun of taking a car is that one may stop for the night whenever he finds the shadows lengthening. He may also get acquainted with the people of the country. I began to look around. "How is this?" I asked, glancing over my shoulder at an ancient-looking house above the highway. The upper walls were cobbled. A squat tower rose, time-seasoned and square, from one corner of the building. There seemed to be an atmosphere of quaint and charming hospitality. We drove up the slope of the embankment to the Hotel of the Bells, but we found no one around. Below the mound where we stood, separating the road from the field, an apple orchard in bloom cast its perfume. The descent of the land toward the tributary to the Seine was grass-green, fresh with uncut hay and unripencd wheat. The porch of the hotel overlooked a lawn and a few small flower beds. 'Thatched umbrellas were open above half a dozen red-painted tables. We caught the sound of a brook and its marshy odor. Even the silence of the house seemed inviting; but where was our host? 673 SEPTEMBER 1963 In rough dress and leather apron, a farmer ran up from the fields. In scanted French, on my part, we conversed. He promised dinner, along with a room. On the third story, we found things even more "ruffledcurtain" in style than we had expected. We also found cleanliness, our own washbowl, and hot running water. | While we were still abovestairs, two German girls took two rooms on the same floor. The intermediate floor must have been given over to the family, but downstairs again, I saw no one. Our host had disappeared. I could not smell the first flavor of dinner. I peeked into the indoor dining room. There was no sign of life, and so I entered the kitchen. There I discovered a lovely cheese; but the only inhabitants in that shining room were three or four red ants that seemed to be longing for the Camembert. It was screened. I heard the girls come down. I said, "Did you see any place along the road where we might eat?" 'They had arrived from a direction opposite to ours. They looked surprised. I spread my hands, indicating there was nothing here. The splendid copper pans and skillets in the kitchen were as bare as Mother Hubbard's cupboard. At this moment our master of the inn bounded up the steps of the porch. "Oui, oui, oui!" Yes, yes, yes, he assured us; but certainly we should have dinner. On the Crest of the Hills Above the Seine Hotel of the Bells, Corneville, Normandy "How?" I asked, with only half a smile. "Where, when?" "But now," he replied brightly. "Sit wherever you wish, indoors or My husband and I chose the garden, a little dubious, perhaps. The gitls took their table. We chatted across the lawn from beneath our respective umbrellas, as we sat in the yellow chairs. Evening was falling; the air was gentle, neither too cool nor too damp. Our host appeared, transformed in a white jacket. He brought a large pitcher of cider. "Le cidre, le cidre!"" He fairly glowed as he filled our tumblers. I glanced at the apple trees; I recognized the secret of this absolutely delicious, unfermented beverage. | The soup also struck the palate as something only the Normans could concoct. From where had it come? Who had prepared this creamy essence? What herbs had seasoned it so delicately? 'This I did not know. There was no one to ask. Our host had vanished again. But here he came again, quick as ever! 'This time he appeared from behind the hedge that concealed the brook. The sound of the running water had given its course away, but not its fruit. That was reserved for the host. "Les truits, les truits!' our man boasted, with a rare smile. The trout, the trout! His triumphant note was supported by the leaping fish within the net. The wait for the entrée did not seem long as we listened to the stream out Detail From the Tapestry of Matilda a. Wet an?: ~ u. A.: ' ~ wt a. | _ The Countryside — Bread Basket on Wheels Ma ee Re and smelled the perfumes of the evening, as we compared notes with the girls on our travels in Normandy. 'They, too, were headed for Bayeux and the tapestry of Matilda, the Queen of William the Conqueror. But hush, here came the fish, browned in butter and served with new potatoes and green peas right out of the garden. We spread the French bread with sweet butter. We felt triumphant. To close the evening with a special courtesy, our host took us with him when he went to the tower to play the bells. 'They had been forged in a nearby foundry to commemorate the legend of the primitive bells of Corneville. 'These had been drowned in the Seine when being removed from the abbey during an invasion of the English in the Hundred Years' War. Legend declares that if one listens carefully, he may catch the sound of those first bells, where it rises today through the ebb and the swell of the waves of the Seine. Our host played his keyboard with felted hammers, like a marimba. In answer to his touch, we heard a deep-throated tune, altogether musical: fa la m it commenced. High, low, up, on a long pause. Tuer next evening we were at Bayeux, almost within sound of the sea, on the River Aure. We had lunched at the inn of the Golden Lion in Pont l'Eveque. Again our meal was like a miracle. We arrived late. We were served, piping hot, an unforgettable sole with cream sauce and fresh mushrooms heaped against parsleyed new potatoes and green peas. Another miracle of France! Toward evening we again stood hand in hand with history. In Bayeux the Romans had also built. But let us skip a thousand years and go to 676 Poppies Accent the Landscape with Color the glory of the Normans in 1066, Duke William's day. Around three walls of a museum built for the purpose, runs the 231-foot tapestry. 'The linen, brown with age, is twenty inches wide. Borders at both the top and bottom depict a series of fables quite apart from the Conquest. We even see Haley's Comet, as if the inevitable round of the seasons must take its planned course. The saga of the tapestry itself begins with the crowning of Harold the Saxon and his betrayal of William's trust. Infinitesimally fine, in eight colors of worsted thread, the details of the mission are vividly shown. In the battle for England we find archers with long bows, and those with short arrows. Horses plunge and rear. Palaces, cottages, rivers, bridges, courts are realistically pictured. 'Through individual earphones, in the language of one's choice, he may listen to the story as he moves slowly forward along the length of the incredible work. From this linen is taken the only known portrait of William the Conqueror. Legend says that Matilda herself took up the needle after the duke's death in battle. Legend is tricky, but the tapestry prompts the thought, what is history really for but to create works of art? The linen suggests the inevitable turning of conquest upon itself. England returned to France, victorious for a time. But time passes, while art remains. I should like to repeat that journey down the Seine from Paris to the sea. I sometimes see the Eiffel Tower at night, rising in luminous splendor for nearly a thousand feet. I see the tapestry of Matilda. I taste the food at Pont l'Eveque. I hear the bells of Corneville: fa Ja mi So sings their bronze on the quiet of the evening air. Color Transparency by Hal Rumel The Eating Club Louise S. Davis: DiS 5S GRC a tall cr pte Fon 5 ON eo Nat Left to right: Louise S. Davis; Lia Barendregt; Inga Johnson; Corry Z. DeMille; Annetta S. Mower. Food in the picture, left to right, front to back: Cherry Tarts; Lemon Snow; Ui Ansje; Rice Bavarian, with Sauce; Corry's Croquettes; Kai's Soy Chicken; Erwten Soep. Ce.. And when we're through rehearsing, I'll make croquettes for us like we ate in Holland." 'Thus, was formed, from this simple statement, "The Eating Club." My sister and I had decided to ask three girls who had recently moved into our ward, one from Holland, one from Denmark, and one from Sweden, if they would like to come over and sing together one evening. We knew they liked to sing from talking to them at our ward choir rehearsals, and thought this a good way to become better acquainted. At first we confined ourselves merely to singing (even entering the 678 MIA All-Church Quartet Festival two years—and winning both times), but, after awhile, the hostess for the rehearsal began to prepare a little food. Soon the food became the highlight of the evening, much as we loved to sing, so we dropped the pretense and began calling ourselves "The Eating Club." The object of the club is simple and contained solely in its title. Others have remarked on what a wonderful way to receive and exchange recipes and, it is true, it ls. But our purpose has been and is primarily eating. 'The meetings are held approximately once a month, and each person brings a dish which is something especially good — a new recipe she has been wanting to try or a tested favorite. 'The menu is rarely planned (despite furtive attempts on the part of some members), and enough is brought so each can have all she wants of everything. Sometimes we have mostly desserts, and sometimes mostly main dishes, but we have all had enough to eat by the time we go home. Once in awhile we have "Request Night," where we request each other to bring our favorites. High repeaters are Corry's Croquettes( which are sold and eaten in Holland as we eat hot dogs), Erwten Soep (Split Pea Soup), Citron Fromage (Lemon Snow), and Rice Bavarian. In making Rice Bavarian in Sweden an almond is included, and the one who receives it, is the next one to be married. THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT Often others attend the Club and are asked to contribute some dish. In this way we have obtained Kai's Soy Chicken from a Chinese student, Cherry Tarts, and Ui Ansjé (Onion Stew). About once a year we have an "Invitational," where guests are invited, without bringing food, and each member brings two or three dishes, so there will be plenty for all. 'This is the only time some sort of a menu is planned. After the dinner is over, the evening is usually spent copying recipes and singing. During the years the Club has met, some have married, some have moved, some have moved back, and new ones have been added (the only membership requirement being to cook good things). Through it all the Club has remained and has become an unending source of forming new friendships and cementing old ones. RECIPES Corry's Croquettes (Dutch) 3 tbsp. Butter % c. Flour 1 can (12 oz.) corned beef 1 c. Milk 1 tsp. Curry % c. Fresh parsley, chopped, or 1 tbsp. Dried parsley flakes Ya c. Flour 2 eggs, slightly beaten 1 ¢. Bread crumbs parsley to garnish Melt butter in large, heavy skillet. Add flour and blend until smooth. Stir in milk gradually and cook over direct heat, stirring constantly until thick, pasty consistency. Add corned beef. Continue cooking, stirring constantly until well mixed and bubbly. Add curry and parsley. Cover and place in refrigerator and chill very thoroughly. Approximately 20 minutes before serving, form into cylindrical shapes, roll in flour, then in eggs, and then in bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat at 375°F. Until golden brown. Remove to hot platter or keep hot in slow oven. Garnish with parsley. Makes approximately 15 croquettes. Erwten Soep (Split Pea Soup) (Dutch) 1 ham bone with a good amount of ham on it qts. Water pkg. (12 0z.) dried split peas celery stalks medium carrots bunches green onions 2 beef bouillon cubes % tsp. Nutmeg salt and pepper to taste NON A — Ww Put bone in soup kettle and cover with water. Cook over high heat until water boils. Lower heat, cover, and simmer approximately 1 to 1% hours. Add peas and about 2 hours or until simmer peas are 679 SEPTEMBER 1963 Chop celery, carrots, and onions, and add to soup. Add bouillon cubes and seasonings and let simmer 1 hour. Soup increases in flavor if allowed to stand overnight. Serve hot with homemade or Dutch bread. Serves 6-8. Mushy. Ui Ansje (Onion Stew) (Dutch) 4 tbsp. Butter or substitute 6 large onions, sliced 2 Ibs. Cubed stew meat 6-8 bay leaves salt, pepper Season meat with salt and pepper and brown in butter which has been melted in skillet. When brown, remove meat and add onions and brown. Return meat to skillet and simmer 45 minutes. Add bay leaves, simmer 45 minutes. When ready to serve, releaves and ladle over rice or Serves 6-8. Move bay boiled potatoes. Kai's Soy Chicken (Chinese) One 2 or 3 |b. Chicken, cut up 2 green onions, chopped Ya tsp. Black pepper 1 tbsp. Sugar 5 tbsp. Soy sauce Ya tsp. Monosodium glutamate Vo tsp. Salt Place chicken in pan, add water, and cook on medium heat for 42 hour. Add remaining ingredients and simmer for about 1 hour or until it becomes almost dry. Remove bones and serve with rice. Serves 3-4. Citron Fromage (Lemon Snow) (Danish) 3 eggs, separated 1 ¢. Sugar 1 tbsp. (1 envelope) unflavored gelatin Yc. Cold water juice from 1 orange and 1 lemon 1 tsp. (scant) lemon rind, grated Y% pt. Whipping cream Beat yolks and sugar until lemon colored. Soak gelatin in cold water and put over hot water until melted. Combine with egg yolk mixture. Add juice and rind. Let stand until it begins to thicken. Fold in whipped cream and egg whites which have been beaten until stiff but not dry. Pour in bowl or 4-cup mold and place in refrigerator until set. Serves 8. 680 Rice Bavarian (Swedish) 1% qt. Milk Ya c. Rice small piece cinnamon stick 1 tsp. Vanilla (optional) 1 '¢. Sugar 2 tbsp. (2 envelopes) unflavored gelatin 2 eggs, separated 1 pt. Whipping cream Cook 1 qt. Milk, rice, cinnamon, and vanilla together in double boiler until rice is very soft and mushy. Remove cinnamon. Meanwhile, heat 2 qt. Milk with sugar and add gelatin when hot. Stir until dissolved. Add to rice mixture. Beat egg yolks until thick and add to rice. Cool. When cool add whipped cream and egg whites which have been beaten until stiff but not dry. Pour into bowl or mold and chill. Serve with sauce. Serves 8. Sauce 1 pkg. Currant-raspberry Danish dessert 3 ¢. Water jvice from small bottle of maraschino cherries or 2-3 drops almond flavoring Make Danish dessert according to recipe on package with 3 cups of water instead of 2. Add remaining ingredient and cool. Serve with Rice Bavarian. Cherry Tarts Crust: 1 ¢. Graham cracker or vanilla wafer crumbs Y% ¢. Sugar Y c. Butter or substitute Combine and press into 9" x 9" pan. Add filling. Filling: 1 8-oz. Pkg. Cream cheese Ya ¢. Sugar 2 eggs Set out cheese at room temperature until soft. Cream it, add sugar, and cream until smooth. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Pour on top of crust. Bake 350°F. For 25-30 minutes. Cool, then cover with One 1-lb. Can cherry pie filling. Cool several hours and_ garnish with whipped cream. Cut in squares. Makes 9 tarts. Rock Gardening Dorthea N. Newbold Transparency by Willard Luce LILY POOL IN A ROCK GARDEN Informality is the keynote of this lily pool-rock garden combination. The borders and center pieces of early spring bulbs have given way to pansies, violets, and forget-me-nots. The stones whicn make the rock garden are porous, thus helping to hold the soil and moisture. RR ocx gardening is a hobby demanding much of the gardener in time, effort, and knowledge. If the beginner is willing to work with plants, and study their needs, beginning with the more easily grown plants, then, as the gardener gains experience, progressing on to the more difficult and demanding plants, she soon becomes expert in her hobby. Much satisfaction is realized through the knowledge gained, and great pleasure from the beautiful pictures created through the use of plants, soil, and rocks. 681 SEPTEMBER 1963 A rock garden, patterned from nature's own way, appears deceptively simple. But, if we will take the time to observe a natural rock garden carefully, then we can avoid many mistakes. First, the site for the garden is very important. And if you possess a natural stony site on your home grounds — then you are fortunate. If that area slopes to the west, east, or north, you are twice blessed. A southern slope presents more problems, due to the rapid drying during the summer months and too much sun during the winter months. Rocks, large ones, are used to create the garden. Selection of rocks should be made from those that are native to your neighborhood. To import rocks can be very costly. Sometimes the gardener wants to stand those expensive rocks on end — in a manner that one never sees in a natural rock garden. Rocks so placed will resemble a pile of rubble left over from the building process. Instead of creating a rock garden, the garden becomes an assemblage of rocks. The gardener becomes unhappy and is defeated before the project is even well launched. Avoid placing the rocks in a regular pattern. If the site chosen is flat, then the soil will have to be dug out to a depth of from one to three feet, or even deeper, depending somewhat on the size of rocks used. Rocks should be large, some should be so large that it will be necessary to use crowbars to shift them to the desired location. Rocks should be placed so that they slope inward and downward. The slanted rocks will guide water to the roots of the plants. If there is any doubt about drainage, then a good layer of coarse gravel should be spread out before the rocks are shifted into position. Spread a layer of sand over the gravel, then shift rocks into the desired locations. Correct placement includes the strata or grain of the rocks sloping at the same pitch. (Here, again, we are copying nature's rock gardens.) Bury the rocks two-thirds to three-fourths in the soil. Use medium-sized rocks as well as the large ones, enabling the gardener to create pockets for soil. After the rocks have been moved into position, a layer of soil, at least six inches deep, should be spread out over the area. Use a shovel handle to ram the soil into the pockets between the rocks. When all the soil has been spread to your satisfaction, then a layer of stone chips should be scattered over the surface. The chips will slow down evaporation of water and will help keep foliage and blossoms off the ground. The soil used in rock gardening is usually made up of three parts, consisting of one part good top soil, one part vegetable fiber, such as leaf mold or compost, and one part rather coarse sand. If you garden in an area where the soil is quite acid, then you will need to add limestone to the mixture. Avoid using fertilizers other than leaf mold or compost or other rotted vegetable matter. 682 SEPTEMBER 1963 When the hard work of making the rock garden has been finished, the pleasures of plant selection and then the planting can begin. Selection of plants is a personal matter, but one finds an amazing wealth of alpine plants from which to select. Planning the plantings is interesting and fascinating. Here we use the principles of good composition: balance, harmony, and unity. The colors in a rock garden may be quite vivid; they should harmonize together, unless, by chance, some of the pinks are used beside the orange colors. There are many lavenders and blues, and these colors are enhanced by using some of the softer tones of pinks and yellows nearby. Low growing shrubs, broad-leaved evergreens, or other evergreens may be used in a rock garden if a careful selection is made of dwarf and lowspreading varieties. If you live in an arid region, perhaps you will prefer using native cacti in many varieties. The rock garden can become a spot of beauty the year around, instead of an area having a great splash of beauty in the springtime. Some of the plants that will give a later blooming period are the dwarf asters, blooming in late summer and fall. Aster Alpinus will bloom continuously from May until July. Many of the Campanulas will bloom from June until October, the soft lavenders, blues, and whites of their flowers providing a spot of color at the time most needed. In the Dianthus family, that large and growing family of pinks, will be found many different varieties and, by experimenting, blooms can be had from June until well into October. Don't forget the Sedums; there are many varieties to select from and they, too, have a long-blooming period. Iris can be used in the garden, but avoid using too many. In fact, always keep in mind that to ruin a lovely rock garden is easy — just overplant one variety of flowers, then it will predominate, and the balance and proportion of the garden will be lost. Weeds have a habit of springing up overnight and should be removed as soon as spotted. 'Trim off spent flowers. This helps the appearance of the garden, and yet, at the same time, encourages the plants to put out another crop of blossoms. Keep the plants pruned to the spot which you intend them to occupy. Some varieties of rock garden plants will spread rapidly, usurping areas belonging to less rampant growers. Most alpine plants are natives of high mountainous regions, used to low temperatures and short growing seasons. Little thought need be given to wintering over thé plants. The alternate freezing and thawing may heave some of the plants out of the soil, and loosen some plants. However, it doesn't take much effort to replant them on any open, sunny winter day. The layer of stone chips placed on top of the soil helps to overcome this problem. 684 Bazaar are wondertul! Counselor Louise W. Madsen wander foes bs Soek JACK AND JILL Distinctive, well-made children's clothes sold readily. The pictures shown were framed pages from storybooks, enhanced by putting real clothing on the characters. In the foreground may be seen several robes made of quilted material and knitted in a darker shade of pink and trimmed with bunnies. Coverall aprons and shift dresses are seen hanging in the background. Stuffed toys, such as the ""'percale animals' at the left proved to be appealing items. The hangers at the left have felt or knitted coverings. They are decorated with felt cutouts and knitted motifs. Transparencies by Hal Rumel — Displays from Monument Park Stake Captions by Velma N. Simonsen 685 QUILTS QUILTS At the right on the table are two crib quilts attractively decorated with applique designs. The red, white, and blue quilt at the extreme right was especially designed for a boy's room. The fullsize quilts were made long enough so they could be used as bedspreads. The quilt hanging at the right has a border of the same pale blue percale as is used for the lining. The center is printed percale. The quilt in the middle (with matching pillow cases) is made of border-print percale and the effective design is obtained by a special method of cutting the material. The beautiful white cotton quilt at the left was one of the outstanding features of the bazaar. Its unusual design and exquisite stitching appealed to all who value expert craftsmanship. The Burgundy colored quilt hanging at the left is lined with ecru-colored rayon satin. The fancy pillow at the left is made of styrofoam cut to resemble a many-petaled flower. It sold readily. Ire ELIEF Society bazaars are wonderful occasions! The talents and skills of large groups of women are utilized to achieve these significant events. One of the most attractive aspects of a Relief Society bazaar is the originality of many of the articles. The creative talents of many women are used to produce new items and refurbish old ideas, to create something no one has thought of before as well as to put new and orginal touches on such ordinary things as aprons. Various kinds of things are featured: from handmade clothes to loaves of bread, from house plants to "white elephants," from knitted sweaters to children's toys, from aprons, party and practical, to quilts too beautiful to be hidden so they become bedspreads. Quality items, handicraft and cakes and pies, homemade candy and decorated soap, delicious preserved fruit and sparkling Christmas decorations, embroidered dishtowels and dainty doll clothes — all are part of a ward Relief Society bazaar. 686 APRONS Monument Park Stake literature class leader Velma N. Simonsen, a former counselor of the Relief Society General Board, holds one of the many beautifully embroidered aprons. The apron is made from red percale and embroidered in white to resemble an original Swedish design. Hanging in the background are several shift dresses and coverall aprons. Some of these are variations of one pattern. Several of the aprons are beautifully decorated with hardanger embroidery. An _ elderly sister from Denmark instructed the women in this ancient and lovely art. Hardanger embroidery was also used to trim a number of summer dresses. The striped coverall apron on the right may be used also as a shift dress. The yellow-flowered dress at the right was made from the same pattern. Bazaars are fun! No occasion brings more delight to the whole membership of a ward or branch than a beautifully presented bazaar, with articles and activities to please everyone. Frequently dinner is served at bazaars and families have a night out together. The sisters find joy in working and learning together through the months of preparation. Each one contributing to the success shares a feeling of satisfaction and happiness in being part of an important work. What fun to choose from tastefully displayed, attractive worthwhile articles! What fun to find just the right presents for just the right prices! What fun to buy something you have wanted or needed, and at the same time support your Relief Society. Some bazaars have a theme, and booths, tables, and wall displays are keyed to this theme. There have been Holiday Bazaars, Harvest Fairs, Spring Homemakers Festivals, Christmas Sales, Back-to-School RoundUps, and many, many others. 687 THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT Bazaars are work! Bazaars are lots of work, but what group of Latter-day Saint women is afraid of work? Many hands make light work, and the achievement is worth the effort. Bazaars are good business training. 'They teach money management, wise spending, and wise buying. 'They teach the great practical arts of organizing, planning, and delegating. 'They involve large numbers of people working together toward a worthwhile goal. They use the special abilities of some sisters as chairmen of projects, the talents of others as heads of committees making certain articles. Effective advertising to gain the greatest possible interest and support is necessary. Attractive posters placed in stores, launderettes, and other public places as well as in the foyers of meetinghouses are helpful. Some sisters have been given some television time to display a few articles. Publicity is necessary. Techniques of merchandising, packaging, and pricing are employed. The sisters have learned to cater to the wants and needs of those to whom they expect to sell. Articles attractively displayed are half sold. There must be eye appeal, not only in the individual articles but in the whole arrangement. Artistic displays, well designed, with a flair for color and convenience of customers are characteristic of most Relief Society bazaars. Bazaars are traditional! Bazaars are traditional with Relief Society. Relief Society has always had the privilege of raising its own funds and much of the money raised has come from bazaars. Relief Society sisters, through long years of experience, have become expert in this undertaking. The art, the know-how, have been passed from generation to generation, from one group of officers to another. Each society may learn from and build upon the foundation laid by others, yet each may add original ideas and practices. One of the great traditions of Relief Society is teaching the women to produce beautiful handwork. Another is to keep the lovely old arts, such as quilting, alive. Both of these traditions are maintained in bazaar preparation. Reiief Society bazaars have purpose! They are successful because they have been carefully planned and have used the creative talents of devoted homemakers. Most Relief Societies have won such a reputation for beautiful articles, reasonably priced, that their bazaars are eagerly anticipated whether they take the form of street'sales in Australia, are held in a rented hall in Europe, or are an annual event in a cultural hall of a ward meetinghouse. A successful bazaar is much more than a money-making venture. 689 Charlotte B. Richards —Keeper of Records Cuartorre Baker Richards, Mendon, Utah, has enriched her own life and contributed greatly to the temporal and spiritual welfare of her family by keeping accurate and beautifully arranged records. Mother of three children, and grandmother of twelve, she has kept illustrated life histories of each of her children and grandchildren from birth to the present time. She has made two family record books and many scrapbooks containing such items as notices of birthdays and birthday observances, family obituaries, poems, and choice selections of prose. She has served as ward Relief Society secretary for twenty-seven years, serving under five presidents. The Relief Society of Mendon Ward is proud of the remarkable record Sister Richards has kept of this organization from 1868, when it was first organized, to the present time. The record contains pictures, names, and dates of the work of the officers and class leaders, and gives resumes of their most outstanding accomplishments. She has worked in the Logan temple for eight years and has held many positions in the auxiliary organizations of the Church. Her enthusiasm and devotion have endeared her to her family and her many friends who have also become happy and efficient keepers of records. 690 SEPTEMBER 1963 North Sacramento Stake (California), Arcade Ward Unveils Painting At Anniversary Social, March 23, 1963 Rose Smith, right, President, Arcade Ward Relief Society, is seen congratulating Elva Nelson, who painted the lovely mural in the background. Kerma D. Jensen, President, North Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports that this painting and two others were unveiled at the ward anniversary social held March 23, 1963. Sister Nelson was asked by Sister Smith to portray The Book of Mormon in an unusual way. "This is indeed a worthy creation for their Relief Society room. The painting shows the talents of Sister Nelson, who also enjoys wood carving and ceramic sculpturing." Willamette Stake (Oregon) Relief Society Conducts Fashion Show April 6, 1963 At the left, Patti Flower modeling a hand-knit wool jumper, and at the right, Mirial Gardner, wearing a beige linen sheath dress with a hand-knit sweater. Dora I. Hines, President, Willamette Stake Relief Society, reports: "The stake board of Relief Society felt a challenge last fall while attending conference and listening to the talks by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen. The stake board of the YWMIA was also interested in a project where modesty in dress might be stressed and joined the Relief Society in sponsoring a fashion show where the sisters of the stake might model clothing of their own making. "A committee headed by Miriam Lee of Relief Society and Juanita Allen of the YWMIA formed committees for modeling, publicity, decorations, and music, and designed a special type 'Pattern for Living' which was printed and given to each one attending the fashion show. Special decorations with sewing ideas built around 'Patterns for Living' made a perfect background for the sisters as they modeled their fashions for an audience of about 275 people, of whom about twenty-five were nonmember guests. "There is no doubt but that each one who participated was impressed with the thought that we may be smartly dressed in modest attire, and we feel richly rewarded by the results of this activity." Granger Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Who Present Two Concerts Annually — A Thanksgiving Service and an Easter Cantata Virginia Paulk, chorister, stands in the center; Carol Lehman, stake organist, is seated left at the piano; seated at the organ, Idell Larson, guest organist; standing behind Sister Larson is Jenna B. Holmberg, President, Granger Stake Relief Society; second tow left is Val Jean Jones, representing the Statue of Liberty; second from the left ls Faye Royer, author and reader. Sister Holmberg reports: "For the past six years the Granger Stake Singing Mothers have presented two concerts annually — a Thanksgiving service and an Easter cantata. The five wards in the stake have participated in the concerts, which have been under the direction of the stake Relief Society presidency, with Virginia Paulk, chorister, and Carol Lehman, organist. These concerts have been a wonderful cultural and spiritual experience for the singers and have been a means of bringing some of the nonactive members into activity. Also, those of the membership of our stake who have attended have felt the true spirit of these special days through the music of the chorus. An outstanding feature of our Thanksgiving program this past year was the patriotic theme carried out with Val Jean Jones portraying the Statue of Liberty. A medley of patriotic hymns was rendered by guest organist Idell Larson." 692 NOTES FROM THE FIELD S& ' 4: &. 'ye ace nee NNN NOE NSS eI COE REPRESS ADIGA AE Tacoma Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference February 17, 1963 At the left of the picture, from top to bottom: Augusta Langdon, director; Peggy Nielson, First Counselor; Jennie Wheeler, President (in lighter skirt); Mary Abney, organist. I Seventh from the left, in the front row, wearing glasses, Geraldine Haney, Second Counselor. Sister Wheeler reports that Fawn Sharp of the General Board of Relief Society attended the conference, and gave much help to the sisters, and they learned to love her during her short stay. SS Ogquirrh Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert in Commemoration of the Anniversary of Relief Society March 16, 1963 Helen W. Jeppson, President, Oquirrh Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the inspirational guidance of Joan Ogden, conductor, and Hilde Luckau, organist, this concert did much to stimulate our sisters. It was one of the loveliest programs given in our stake in recent years. We began rehearsing in October of 1962 and enjoyed a full five months of music. The wards and stake worked as one in this endeavor, and we all felt divine guidance throughout the entire undertaking. In addition to the varied selection of offerings presented by the Singing Mothers, the poem 'Portrait of Freedom,' by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board of Relief Society, was read by Leola Green Merrill." ater 695 Portneuf Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Third Annual May Music Festival May 2, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Pearl Davis, Portneuf Stake Relief Society organist; Belva Hadley, stake chorister,; Norma Armstrong, director, Garden Creek Singing Mothers; Gladys Brown, director, McCammon Ward Singing Mothers; Vera Hall, accompanist, McCammon; Wanda Wilson, accompanist, Lava Ward Singing Mothers; Sylvia Symons, director, Lava Ward; Erma Abbott, director, Swan Lake Ward Singing Mothers; Counselor Dora Christensen, Portneuf Stake Relief Society; Counselor Esther Bishoff; President Fern T. Hartvigsen; Fay Merrill, accompanist, Swan Lake Ward Singing Mothers; Faye Gambles, director, Downey Second Ward Singing Mothers; Dorothy Allsop, accompanist, Downey Second Ward; Ona Whitaker, director, Downey Ward Singing Mothers; Ruth Jones, Downey Ward accompanist; June Hall, Arimo Ward accompanist; Blanche Olson, director, Arimo Ward Singing Mothers. Sister Hartvigsen reports: "One hundred two Singing Mothers from the 133 enrolled in the stake participated in this festival. Because of circumstances that arose in two of the wards, Lava and Virginia, their groups were not represented, although some members from these wards were included in the combined chorus. The entire production was under the direction of stake music director Belva Hadley and organist Pearl Davis. Ward groups under their respective directors presented two numbers each. The groups were combined for the last two numbers. Sister Hadley welcomed all those who had come to hear the singing and paid a lovely tribute to the singers. Opening and closing prayers were offered by Stake President James A. Criddlle and President Willis L. Brim. Sister Hartvigsen gave brief remarks of appreciation. The sisters presented an inspiring sight in their white blouses and dark skirts. They sang from their hearts, and all were touched by their devotion. Many hours" of practice went into preparation for the festival." 697 (al iy. — LESSON DEPARTMENT ey a a eS = THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 51 — The Kingdom of God Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 65) For First Meeting, December 1963 Objective: To learn that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God that was prophesied will stand forever. INTRODUCTION Tue Prophet Joseph Smith records in his history that on the 12th of September 1831, he moved his family to the township of Hiram, Ohio, to live at the home of John Johnson, a member of the Church. Hiram was about thirty miles in a southeasterly direction from Kirtland. From the time of his arrival until the forepart of October, the Prophet made preparations to "recommence the translation [revision] of the Bible' (DHC I:215). He wrote that Section 65 of The Doctrine and Covenants is a prayer received through revelation. This is the first time in this book of scripture that a revelation is so designated. When the Kirtland Temple was ready for dedication, the Lord gave the dedicatory prayer by revelation. (Section 109.) 698 "PREPARE YE THE WAY" An authoritative source has pointed out that the expression "Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one sent down from on high" in verse 1 suggests that like John on Patmos (Rev. 1:10-12) Joseph Smith heard a voice described as:... A voice as of one sent down from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men — Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight (D & C 65:1). This same source refers to "Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight," also found in Isaiah 40:3, as having meaning in Oriental imagery. Anciently, an Eastern ruler would send his messenger to announce his coming which would give notice to his loyal subjects that crooked paths were to be made straight and the roads to be made level. The comparison with this revelation seems clear. The Lord's messengers have been sent in this dispensation to make preparations for his second coming. Loyal subjects of his kingdom will make necessary preparations to receive their king. "When we comply with His commandments and prepare for His advent, our prayers are acceptable to Him" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 398). "THE KEYS OF THE KINGDOM" The Lord reminded Joseph Smith that the keys of the kingdom of God had been given to man upon the earth. (D & C 65:2.) Apostles of the meridian dispensation foresaw the time when the gospel would be restored to the earth following a long period of apostasy from the true principles and ordinances of the gospel, as given by the Savior and continued by his apostles. Peter describes that time as a period of "tefreshing" from "the presence of the Lord," which would result because of a "restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began" (Acts 3:19-21). This prophecy is significant because it reminds one of the numerous words of the prophets concerning our times — the coming forth of The Book of Mormon (Isa. 29; Ezek. 37:15-28); the gathering of Israel. (Jer. 3:14-18; 31:31-33; Isa. 11:10- 12); the building of a house of the Lord in the mountains (Isa. 2:2-3); the building of a-temple to which the Lord would come suddenly (Mal. 3:1); and other prophecies that have been fulfilled or are in the LESSON DEPARTMENT course of fulfillment. Paul the apostle foresaw the time when all things would be gathered together in one in the last dispensation — the fulness of times. (Eph. 1:9, 10.) The gospel would be restored by an angel to usher in that dispensation as a part of the restoration of what the prophets saw. (Rev. 14:6, 7.) The keys of the kingdom of God were a necessary part of the restoration of all things. Without the authority of the Priesthood to administer the laws and ordinances of the gospel, there would be no validity to the plan of salvation. (John 15:16; Heb. 5:4.) The necessary keys (power to direct the work of the kingdom) had been given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery by John the Baptist (D & C Section 13; Mal. 3:1-3), and by Peter, James, and John. (D-& C 27:12- 13.) In the last scripture, notice the reference to the committing of the keys of the dispensation in which the Lord would gather together in one all things as prophesied. Later on in the dispensation still additional authority was to be restored that specific activities of the dispensation might be carried out. Elijah was to come, as foreknown. (Mal. 4:5, 6, D & C 2; 110:13-16.) Moses and Elias were also to be sent that functions necessary for our times might be accomplished. (Ibid., 110:11-12.) Still others would bring their authorities, nghts, powers, and glories to bless those who want the riches of eternity. (Ibid., 128:21.) THE PROPHESIED KINGDOM One of the remarkable prophesies of the Old 'Testament relative to the 699 SEPTEMBER 1963 setting up of the kingdom of God in the last days is found in Daniel, chapter 2. The expression in verse 45, "the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands" is also found in verse 2 of Section 65, which reads as follows: The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth. An interesting statement from the Prophet's remarks concerning this prophecy in the book of Daniel was made not long before he was martyred:... The ancient prophets declared that in the last days the God of heaven should set up a kingdom which should never be destroyed, nor left to other people; and the very time that was calculated on, this people were struggling to bring it out. I calculate to be one of the instruments of setting up the kingdom of Daniel by the word of the Lord, and I intend to lay a foundation that will revolutionize the whole world. I once offered my life to the Missouri mob as a sacrifice for my people, and here I am. It will not be by sword or gun that this kingdom will roll on: the power of truth is such that all nations will be under the necessity of obeying the Gospel.. (DHC VI: 364-365). THE GOSPEL, A LEAVEN Asael Smith, the grandfather of Joseph Smith, was inspired to say: 'ft has been borne in upon my soul that one of my descendants will promulgate a work to revolutionize the world of religious faith" (Smrru, Josepp Frevpinc: Essentials in Church History, page 29). 'The influence of the restoration of the 700 gospel and its promulgation throughout the world has been very great, and the future will see a greater influence upon the people of the world. Some of our leaders have pointed out the leavening effect of the true gospel in the world. Men's ideas of religious concepts have undergone some changes since the spring of 1820. There may be, and probably are, other reasons for changes in the minds of men on religious principles, but if their ideas become more congenial to the fulness of the gospel then contention on _ these points will lessen. Before the Church was organized, and in reference to the bringing forth of The Book of Mormon, the Lord revealed that it was his purpose to decrease contention by this means. (D & C 10:61-63.) Certainly, the leavening influence of the restored gospel was not felt immediately. It takes a long time for change to come. The last sentence of the Prophet's remark quoted above suggests that the day will come when the power of truth will bring the nations to obey the gospel. 'That day, however, will not be in the time of wickedness (Ibid., 1:11-16), but nonetheless, it ls prophesied that the time will come, and it will probably be in the millennium, when "every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world" (Ibid., 1:19-20). DANIEL'S PROPHECY Many of our leaders have referred to Daniel, chapter 2, especially verse 44, which sets forth the application of King Nebuchadnezzar's dream, as interpreted by Daniel the Hebrew prophet, but it is probably Brother B. H. Roberts in the Introduction to Volume I of the History of the Church (Documentary History) by Joseph Smith, who has given us the fullest account. Briefly, the dream of the king as interpreted by Daniel (Dan. 2:37 45) indicated that Nebuchadnezzar's kingdom, Babylonia, was the first world power (the 6th and sth centuries B. C.) mentioned, to be replaced by the Medo-Persian empire (from 538 B. C. To about 330 B. C.), followed by the Greco-Macedonian kingdom (from about 330 B. C. To 160 B. C.), with the Roman empire immediately following and ending in the fifth century A. D. (If you read Brother Roberts' explanation, keep in mind that he quotes a Protestant writer who believed that the kingdom of God mentioned in verse 44 was set up in the days of Christ. Brother Roberts shows very clearly that such an interpretation is incorrect, one reason being that the kingdom of God would be established in the days of the fifth phase of the dream, at the time of the breaking up of the Roman empire into many small nations or kingdoms, and not during the Roman period when Jesus ministered. (DHC I: XXXIV-XL.) Each one of the foregoing kingdoms was symbolized by a part of the great image; the golden head — Babylonia; the silver breast and arms — Medes and Persians; the brazen belly and thighs — the Greco-Macedonian kingdom; the legs of iron — Roman empire; and the feet of iron and clay which eventually were broken to be replaced by the kingdom of God. LESSON DEPARTMENT Elder Roberts points out that the kingdom ot God would be a material kingdom. As other kingdoms on earth and not a spiritual kingdom of Christ only, and that it would be organized in the last days. THE FULFILLMENT The prophesied kingdom of God represented as a stone cut out of the mountain without hands was formally organized on April 6, 1830, and is known as The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That Church has as its head the Savior with the President of the Church as his representative to guide and direct its destiny by revelation. As the Church of Jesus Christ in his day was composed of officers and organizations, so, by the restoration of the gospel and the Church as prophesied, the Church today performs its many purposes through a tangible organization. (Lessons 13 and 14, Relief Society Magazine, November and December 1958, respectively. ) A PURPOSE OF THE CHURCH In the beginning of this dispensation, the Lord revealed that due to the apostate condition of the world he had established his organization upon the earth that man might have the means of salvation. This restoration was to prepare those who would accept his Church for the glorious coming of the Savior. The world would also, by the preaching of the gospel, have an opportunity to know of the Lord's intentions for man if he did not repent. (D & C 1). Section 65 carries this same message of preparation for the second coming of 701 SEPTEMBER 1963 Christ. (Read verses 3 and 4.) It is worthy of note that this and other admonitions emphasize the charge given to the kingdom of God to make known its principles and ordinances through missionary work. The first commission given to the Church was to preach the gospel. In the days of renewed emphasis upon "every member a missionary," it is well to remind ourselves of this primary responsibility of the citizens of the kingdom. THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth (D & C 65:5). The Lord commanded his disciples to pray for the coming of that kingdom. (Matt. 6:9-13.) This counsel reminds one that by prayer the disciple is kept in remembrance of the need to further the purposes of the kingdom, as indicated above. The kingdom of God set up on the earth will be prepared to meet the Savior as it discharges its purposes for the salvation of the living and the dead. The faithful citizens of his kingdom will perform the functions of true followers of the Master by demonstrating their love in keeping the commandments of their King. (John 14:15.) Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thine enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, forever and ever. Amen (D & C 65:6). 702 Elder James E. Talmage wrote that the expressions "kingdom of God" and "kingdom of heaven" are frequently used interchangeably. In the latter-day scriptures, particularly the one above, there is a distinctive meaning. "The kingdom of God is the Church of Christ; the kingdom of heaven is that system of government and administration which is operative in heaven, and which we pray may some day prevail on earth. The kingdom of heaven will be established when the King. Shall come, as come He shall, in power and might and glory, to take, dominion in and over and throughout the earth. The kingdom of heaven shall come, and then shall justice tule in the earth" (TALMAcE, James E.: Conference Report, April 1917, pp. 65-66; see also Articles of Faith, pp. 365-368). IT SHALL STAND FOREVER Probably the most quoted part of Daniel's prophecy is verse 44: And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever. The Prophet Joseph Smith said of the Lord's work: No unhallowed hand can stop the work of God from progressing. Persecution may tage, mobs may combine, armies may assemble, calumny may defame; but the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly and independently, until it has penetrated every continent and visited every clime, swept over the country and sounded in every ear till the purposes of God shall be accomplished and the great Jehovah shall say the work is done (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature 2:18-19). We As early as 1831 when Wycom Clark and others broke away from the Church and organized their own church, Satan attacked God's work by influencing men to set up counter movements to the kingdom of God. As that attempt failed so will all other efforts to overthrow the kingdom of God, even though some of the offshoots may persist for a time. Individual apostasies will not deter the kingdom. President Charles W. Penrose once said: If you or I, or any of us, should leave the Church, the Church would still go on. Do not let us think, any of us, that the Church owes us anything. We owe a great deal to the Church, for light and truth and every principle and ordinance and authority and organization of the priesthood and of the helps and gifts that are in the Church for our comfort, our blessing, our union, and the continuation of power in the Church. They have come to us from God through the appointed authorities of the Church, and they will abide, no matter what we may do (Conference Report, April 1913, page 64). CONCLUSION In the revelations of God to Joseph Smith there is clear indication LESSON DEPARTMENT that the Church organized in 1830 is the kingdom of God that will continue to remain God's Church, for as Daniel said, it will never be destroyed, or given to another people, but it will stand forever. 'The present increase in membership with the material gains of the Church in its building program, and the vitality of the convincing power of God to make people better, are indications of the progress of this work to fulfill its divine destiny. The keys of the kingdom are on the earth to bless and benefit all who want to receive the benefits of its powers for happiness here and eternal life in the world to come. Questions for Discussion 1. In what ways may the Latter-day Saint "prepare the way of the Lord'? 2. Discuss Bible prophecies concerning the last dispensation. 3. What is meant by the idea that the gospel is a leaven? 4. How does missionary work fit into a purpose of preparing for the second coming of Christ? 5. Distinguish between the expressions "kingdom of God" and "kingdom of heaven," as used in modern revelation. Autumn Beauty Zata Sabin Autumn has come so suddenly — The pyracantha bushes bear Bright berries and the sumacs wear A blush upon their leaves. To me It brings face lines — strange beauty there — And silver snow-dust in my hair. 703 = ~ nen — VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — |) en SP ene 'olin | PA pantie oct al nis 7O Live By rrom the Woctrine ang "Covenants Message 51 — "Continue in Patience Until Ye Are Perfected" (D & C 67:13). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, December 1963 Objective: To teach the value of continuous patience in striving for perfection. In his incomparable Sermon on the Mount, the Savior gave to us a great yet also a most difficult commandment to obey. He said, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48). Ever since that time, some 2,000 years ago, conscientious followers of the Lord have been concerned about this commandment and have wondered if it is possible for imperfect human beings to become as perfect as their Father in heaven. One answer which has been given to this ageold question is, that so long as one is doing everything possible to become perfect he is on the road to perfection and, therefore, doing all that he can to fulfill the Lord's commandment. Another answer to this question is found in this passage of the 67th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. 'The entire verse states, "Ye are not able to abide the presence of God now, neither the ministering of angels; wherefore, continue in patience until ye are perfected." The importance of exercising patience in reaching perfection is also stated by the great apostle Peter when he, in his second epistle to the saints of 704 his day, admonished them to "add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness" (2 Peter 1:5-6). Could it be, then, that if we diligently practice the qualities which incorporate the attribute of patience we may arrive at perfection? What are these qualities? Some of the more important of these are gentleness, calmness, self-control, long-suffering. Briefly let us consider each of these as they relate to patience. Gentleness is a basic characteristic of patience. Patient people are gentle, understanding, thoughtful, and kind. When we practice these traits we exhibit patience. Calmness is another characteristic which incorporates patience. A calm person is one who bears the everyday small trials and annoyances quietly and with equanimity. Experience in meeting these small problems this way builds strength to meet and handle the big problems when they come along. All of us can practice this characteristic of patience. Self-Control is one of the most important aspects of patience. One cannot control others until first he controls himself. Self-control means controlling our emotions, our angers, and our appetites. Self-control means self-restraint. Long-suffering is another attribute of patience. Even the most tranquil life must meet disappointments, discouragements, failures, and defeat. 'The ability to meet these in fine spirits, high courage and good humor is an important part of long-suffering. 'The courage to get up and try again when one has been knocked down and the ability to endure to the end are essential traits of patience. Individual patience has played an exceedingly important role in the history and development of the Church. This was particularly true of the pioneer trek westward when with all of their trials, tribulations, obstacles, and disappointments, the LESSON DEPARTMENT saints bore up patiently and made their triumphant entry into the Salt Lake Valley. During the depth of their discouragement, William R. Clayton composed the great immortal hymn: Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear; But with joy wend your way. Though hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day. "Tis better far for us to strive. Our useless cares from us to drive; Do this, and joy your hearts will swell — All is well! All is well! Someone has wisely said, '""Patience strengthens the spirit, sweetens the temper, stifles anger, extinguishes envy, subdues pride, bridles the tongue, restrains the hand" (Horn, Youthful Quotes, page 453). "Patience is the soul of peace. Of all of the virtues it is the nearest kin to heaven; it makes men look like gods." WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 11 — Planning the Conservation of Family Resources Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, December 1963 Objective: To view extravagant and wasteful practices in buying and using equipment and to formulate guides for improvement. Topay the call is given constantly over radio, T'V, and the newsstands to buy or trade in refrigerators, ranges, washing machines, vacuum cleaners, mixers, blenders, dish washers, automobiles, and appliances of every possible description. The pressure is so great that some families 705 SEPTEMBER 1963 forget their long-time goals and mortgage their future in order to have the latest chromium-trimmed model. Others may see values and goals more important for family living. It is they who, in the long run, will be more likely to come through successfully. 'This does not mean that useful appliances are not desirable. Indeed, they are designed to reduce time and effort required for many of the routine tasks and can be a boon to better living. 'The point is that families should meet life on their own terms and realize that some goals are more important than others, and the entire budget cannot be used for one item. Careful planning and wise buying will keep a family from getting into extravagant and wasteful habits and help them to achieve some balance in living as well as in their budget. It is not wisdom to trade in any furnishings or equipment that are still in good condition each time a new model appears on the market. As the children grow, the family that learns to work and plan together may decide, as one family did, that a piano was more important than a dishwasher or a new rug. After buying the piano, they planned a rug project. They searched out some cast-off woolens, washed them, and braided a rug. Each child and the parents had a part in deciding on the colors to use, and in six months they had a finished rug. The piano was a wise investment because of all the familv activity that it motivated. Some families have fun searching in attics, in used furniture stores, or in the newspaper ads for genuinely good old pieces of furniture 706 which, with imagination, can be refinished and made into lovely furniture that may even become heirlooms. Regular care of your purchases will extend their life. "Doesn't she know that every time she lets the pot boil over, she is burning out the coil?" asked an equipment dealer who was kept busy replacing coils in a homemaker's electric range. Another dealer said, "I can't understand how anyone could be so foolish as to spend a large sum of money on a washing machine and never read the instruction book. Well, I shouldn't complain, for this is where I make most of my profit, from other people's carelessness." The family that plans for each purchase and saves for it is more likely to appreciate it and care for it than the impulsive buyer. Every appliance manufacturer includes a booklet of instructions with every model of his product. It is required that these remain with the appliance and become the property of the purchaser. One manufacturer, knowing that most women are prone to overlook or disregard instruction booklets, caused to be printed in large red letters on the front of the instruction booklet a rather facetious statement, If all else fails, read the instructions. One of the most important ways of taking care of a piece of equipment is to be thoroughly familiar with its proper operation. Recommendations for placement in the home, care of moving parts, protection of the finish, and other "do's and dont's" are always made. No one needs to suffer cracked porcelain on her stove if she has read the manufacturer's instruction to let the appliance cool before cleaning it. No washing machine motor needs to burn itself out from being overloaded if the owner has taken time to ascertain the weight limits of a recommended load. No refrigerator needs to grow old before its time if defrosting rules are followed, if, for instance, its innards have not been poked with a sharp instrument in an effort to aid defrosting. Many of the commonly used appliances represent a fairly large investment of money. 'They have been engineered to last and give service for many years. Manufacturers, as well as the companies from whom they buy the materials that go into appliances, do a great deal of research and testing. 'They know under what conditions their product performs most satisfactorily. Housewives would do well to follow their instructions. "Clean up after yourself" is a valuable lesson for each family member to learn. After using the washer, it should be cleaned thoroughly and made ready for the next use. After the range is cold, LESSON DEPARTMENT it should be put in condition for cooking the next meal. The homemaker who never cleans the burners and drip pans, who never cleans the oven, who seldom gives the refrigerator a going over, who runs the vacuum without emptying the bag, will not get the full value from her investment. Dirty equipment never operates efficiently, will soon be out of commission, and require service and replacements. One can become quite attached to pieces of equipment that are well cared for. An old iron frying pan that has been in the family for three generations still does an excellent job. It was seasoned before its first use and has been used ever since. Even the old treadle sewing machine that sewed the petticoats and dresses and coats and quilt blocks for half a century is looked upon with veneration. A cow was sold to buy that machine, and it has earned a place in the household that no new article can fill, Extravagant and wasteful practices in buying and using equipment can be eliminated through careful planning, wise buying, and regular care. Cl {.: ss ~ a wnt Out Eva Willes Wangsgaard I looked into a wide blue sky Until a jet went streaking by And pulled a zipper like a purse That shut me from the universe. 707 LITERATURE @¢ America's Literature The Last Hundred Years Lesson 43 — The Quickening Spirit of Emily Dickinson (1830-1886) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 609-616) For Third Meeting, December 1963 Objective: To introduce ourselves to Emily Dickinson's mind and _ heart, first by entering her home, then her poetry. Topay's superlative adjectives are so overused that even "super-colossal" seems unimpressive to many who hear it so often. 'Thus well aware of the dangers of bestowing exaggerated praise, we are nonetheless justified in calling Emily Dickinson great. 'Today no one questions her place in the top ranking of American writers. Among American poets only Walt Whitman and T. S. Eliot approach her stature, while among women writing in English she has no rivals. Were one to ask the names of women poets worldwide, through time, who deserve comparison with her, such names come dear. Since World War II, with the first publication of completely reliable editions of her poems and letters, the full scope and depth of her greatness gradually emerge, nor is an ending to such high critical and popular praise in sight. Now, above rumor, prejudice, over-emphasized eccentricities, and bumblings of editors both friendly and indifferent, she comes into her own. How fortunate we are, that 708 the criticism and research of recent decades have made possible a larger access to her than before. A SUDDEN CREATIVE SURGE During her school days Emily earned the reputation of being a wit, a maker of jokes and pranks, the same relationship she kept alive among her family until long after all the children became adults. During her twenties she wrote less than sixty poems. In 1859, her twentyninth year, she wrote almost one hundred, and about seventy during 1860. Then in 1861-62 came her magnificent deluge: over 450 poems, most of them written in 1862. Why this sudden torrent which did not end abruptly? What turmoils arose within her which must have release? Was her new spurt of creativity centered entirely in poetry? Did poetry yield her pleasure or pain? How much did she share with close friends and relatives, how much keep secret? The enticing list grows long. In the April 1862 issue of the Atlantic Monthly, the Reverend Thomas Wentworth Higginson, friend to young authors and promlnent literary critic, had written an article in which he had invited any aspiring writer, who felt the need, to ask for his help. Almost consumed with the need to ask some competent person to evaluate her recent creations, Emily initiated what was to become one of her lifelong friendships. Her initial letter to him was as unique as the four poems she enclosed for his evaluation. 'Typically, the letter was unsigned, though she enclosed within a smaller envelope a card bearing her name. Imagine Mr. Higginson's astonishment after unfolding and reading the following memorable sheet: 15 April, 1862 Mr. Higginson, Are you too deeply occupied to say if my Verse is alive? The Mind is so near itself — it cannot, distinctly — and I have none to ask — Should you think it breathed — and had you the leisure to tell me, I should feel quick gratitude — If I make the mistake — that you dared to tell me — would give me sincere honor — toward you — I enclose my name — asking you, if you please — Sir — to tell me what is true? That you will not betray me — it is needless to ask — since Honor is its own pawn — (Jounson, Tuomas: The Letters of Emily Dickinson, Harvard University Press, 1958, No. 206, page 403. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). YEARS OF TERROR It was during 1862, when she was thirty-one, that Emily Dickinson entered into the year of "a terror since September I could tell to none." What this terror was cannot LESSON DEPARTMENT be determined with full certainty, but events in her life and allusions in her poems do seem to offer a high correlation. At the same time it should be recalled that, merely because the creating poet makes the personal reference which all artists freely do, such "poetic" adventures do not therefore become fact. Some of her poems, however, seemingly refer to her own life in terms too strong and direct to ignore. For example, poem 1732*, written at some unknown time in her life, but published in 1896, begins, My life closed twice before its close — It yet remains to see If Immortality unveil A third event to me So huge, so hopeless to conceive As these that twice befell. Parting is all we know of heaven, And all we need of hell (Jounson, Tuomas, The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson, Boston, Little, Brown and Co., 1960, page 702). Such disastrous partings could refer to the deaths of her father, who in many ways dominated her life at home, and her nephew, Gilbert Dickinson. But also she could have "died" with her intellectual mentor and awakener, young law-clerk, Ben Newton, who had died in 1853 after introducing her to Emerson and other "liberating" authors. Or it could refer to the love affair she cre- *Numbers preceding the poems are those given by Thomas H. Johnson in his definitive three-volume collection, The Poems of Emily Dickinson, 1955. Miss Dickinson titled only twenty-three of her poems; all other titles have been added by editors. The punctuation above, in contrast to the benevolent guesses shown throughout our text, is exactly as she wrote it. 709 SEPTEMBER 1963 ated in her own mind for the Reverend Charles Wadsworth. During the twenty-seven years which elapsed from her first seeing him in the pulpit until his death in 1882, they exchanged a few letters, and he called on her in 1860 and 1880, surely as a friend and admirer. Never could the Reverend have dreamed what he had become to her; never does any indication appear, either within his own domestic or professional life, which could cast the least shadow on his distinguished life as a clergyman. Recent research proves, almost beyond doubt, how fully Emily identified herself with him even while he remained innocent of her love. And it might well have been his telling her in September 1861, that he planned on leaving his Philadelphia pastorate for distant parts outside the turmoil of the Civil War, which prompted the terror she could not tell. It was during this period of great soul-shaking and despair that she began dressing herself only in white, a commemoration she honored until her death. Of further significance, it was also during this period of supreme psychic and _ emotional crisis that she began considering the writing of poetry as a compensation and release through which she could create for herself a life and identity which might sustain her. Among other poems produced in the torrent when, in actuality, she was writing for her very life, appeared No. 271, dated "about 1861." 271 A solemn thing — it was — I said — A woman — white — to be — And wear — if God should count me fit — Her blameless mystery — 710 A hallowed thing — to drop a life Into the purple well — Too plummetless — that it return — Eternity — until — I pondered how the bliss would look — And would it feel as big — When I could take it in my hand — As hovering — seen — through fog — And then — the size of this '"'small'' life — The Sages — call it small — Swelled — like Horizons — in my vest And I sneered — softly — ''small." (Ibid., pp. 123-124.) In the poems above, as in those quoted below, her elemental greatness is apparent. Suffering, hoping grandly, she condenses and selects those images which make the poem itself its own end and fulfillment; we need not go outside the poem, either to author or commentator. Supporting insights into her resignation and suffering may be gained from another poem: 252 I can wade Grief — Whole Pools of it — I'm used to that But the least push of Joy Breaks up my feet. Power is only Pain — Stranded, thro Discipline... (Ibid., page 115). Her withdrawal from association with all save nature, children, a very few choice friends, and her immedlate family did not mean that communication with her human-heavenworld stopped; it merely changed form. From the beginning of her withdrawal in 1862 until her death, more than eight hundred letters have survived. These letters are all to kin and friends, none of a practical or routine nature. They soar in delight, pathos, warmth, puckish wit. Some are nearly as compelling as her poems, and as valuable a proof that Emily, in her unique manner and on her own terms, lived all of life and found "ecstasy in living; the mere sense of living is joy enough." Space permits only one letter. Next door to the ancestral home lived her beloved brother, Austin, and Sue, his wife and girlhood chum of Emily's, who remained so near her in spirit that she received from Emily 267 poems over the years, more than anyone else. The sudden death of Gilbert, their eightyear-old son, jarred Emily more profoundly than did the death of parents, loved ones, or friends. As usual, soon after Gilbert's death, she communicated with Sue by writing three letters. The first one follows. October 1883 Dear Sue — The Vision of Immortal Life has been fulfilled — How simply at the last the Fathom comes! 'The passenger and now the Sea, we find surprises us — Gilbert rejoiced in Secrets — His life was panting with them — With what menace of Light he cried, "Don't tell, Aunt Emily'! Now, my ascended playmate must instruct me. Show us, prattling Preceptor, but the way to thee! He knew no niggard moment — His Life was full of Boon — The Playthings of the Dervish were not so wild as his — No crescent was this Creature — He traveled from the Full — Such soar, but never set — I see him in the Star, and meet his sweet velocity in everything that flies — His life was like the Bugle, which winds itself away, his Elegy an echo — his Requiem ecstasy — Dawn and Meridian in one — Without a speculation our little Ajax spans the whole — LESSON DEPARTMENT Pass to thy Rendezvous of Light, Pangless except for us — Who slowly ford the Mystery Which thou hast leaped across! Emily (Jounson: Letters of Emily Dickinson, Harvard University Press, 1958, No. 868, page 799. Reprinted by permission of Houghton Mifflin Company). Thanks to modern scholarship, this letter and hundreds equally poignant and revealing are now available to us, but only since 1958; likewise, the complete poems were published in three volumes in 1955, and in one volume in 1960, edited by Thomas H. Johnson. Before these most carefully edited and unbiased editions appeared, Emily's letters and poems came to the public in spotty and unreliable collections, her priceless literary estate twisted, concealed, hastily edited, victim of a feud between her heirs and her friends which for more than sixty years kept the full and real Emily from her growing public. Only Poe's literary reputation has suffered more than Miss Dickinson's. HER CHANGING IDENTITY In the seventy-five years since her death, Time has not been kind to Emily, though the last decade has treated her more fairly. During her lifetime she was "robbed" of seven poems which were published against her will, since each published poem caused her to fear not only the unbearable shock of sharing her most intimate self but the horrifying liberties editors took with her poems to "correct" them. With the exception of William Dean Howells' praise, contemporary literary taste condemned her rough metrical pat- 711 THREE PART CHORAL MUSIC FOR SINGING MOTHERS ie. ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 a COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen.20 _— GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin _.25 ou GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner.30 a. HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn.25 am. LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain._.25 — LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen.20 a LORD IS MY SHEPHERD—Smart _ -.20 7 LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 = O LOVE THAT WILT NOT LET ME GO—Schubert.20 ole OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.20 — OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Lst South Salt Lake City 11, Utah I | \ \ i!! Please send the music indicated | | above. | \ [] On Approval [] Charge |; CJ Money Enclosed ee an eavons H! Address 2 c. Eo csececcscecccceceeee! | i 1 City and State 1 -— 38 } J Salt take Cay 1 1 Urek terns and her evident inability to write poetry which rhymed. For example, to show how her newness was misunderstood and how editors "improved" her style, poem 214 originally had the following first stanza: I taste a liquor never brewed — From Tankards scooped in Pearl — Not all the Vats upon the Rhine Yield such an Alcohol! (The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson, page 98). Yet when printed anonymously in the nearby Springfield Daily Republican in 1861, it had been changed to read, I taste a liquor never brewed, From tankards scooped in pearl; Not Frankfort berries yield the sense Such a delirious whirl. Thomas Bailey Aldrich's "improving" was more thorough: I taste a liquor never brewed In vats upon the Rhine; No tankard ever held a draught Of alcohol like mine. (Text, page 610) Once her technical inadequacies were acknowledged and _ forgiven, Emily was first known as a poet of nature touched with a charming whimsy, as in 328: A Bird came down the Walk — He did not know I saw — He bit an Angleworm in halves And ate the fellow raw, And then he drank a Dew From a convenient Grass — And then hopped sidewise to the Wall To let a Beetle pass — (Jounson, The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson, page 157.) forbids the remaining She catches the same tone Space stanzas. in 318: "T'll tell you how the sun rose / A ribbon at a time"; 333: "The grass so little has to do"; 526: "To hear an oriole sing / May be a common thing — / Or only a divine." Perhaps best known is her version of a train. (See "I Like to See it Lap the Miles," text, page 612.) As more poems of Emily's were published it became evident that she had a fierce contempt for normal human foibles: for those who live on public acclaim (288); and who so fear others' departure from a rigid belief that they persecute nonconformity (435). In such poems it becomes increasingly evident that in Emily Dickinson the New England Renaissance has a true heir and a worthy spokesman. LESSON DEPARTMENT 435 Much Madness is divinest Sense — To a discerning Eye — Much Sense — the starkest Madness — "Tis the Majority In this, as All, prevail — Assent — and you are sane — Demur — you're straightway dangerous — And handled with a Chain — (Ibid., page 209. See also "Nobody," text, page 611). She wrote with telling power her awe for life's mysteries, and pain, and death: 764 Presentiment is that long Shadow — on the Lawn — Indicative that Suns go down — The Notice to the startled Grass That Darkness — is about to pass — (The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson, page 374). Artificial Flowers 3002 South State St. Comes to Salt Lake City Mail orders everywhere! Write for free catalog and Instruction Sheets Salt Lake City 15, Utah 713 650 Pain — has an Element of Blank — It cannot recollect When it began — or if there were A time when it was not — (Ibid., page 323. See also ""The Morning After Death," text, page 615.) While the poems above and numerous others fulfill their own justification for being, it may well be that Emily Dickinson's most lasting fame may be earned by her religious poetry. 'Though all members of her family finally joined the dominant Congregational Church, she never could. For years she was supposed to experience a guilt which she did not feel, meanwhile alternating between various degrees of faith and doubt. Yet from those who knew her best, as from a mass religious poetry which speaks its own power and integrity, she might with justice be summarized, not merely as a withdrawn, embittered spinster (as was the vogue for several decades) but as an intense and sensitive spirit ever questing for the highest truth, and honest enough to create in her poems her awareness of both success and failure in this, her ultimate search. I have perfect confidence in God and His promises, and yet I know not why I feel that the world holds a predominant place in my affections.... I cannot tell how Eternity seems. It sweeps around me like a sea (THACKRAY, D. E.: Emily Dickinson's Approach to Poetry, University of Nebraska Study, No. 13, November 1954, page 15). 823 Not what We did, shall be the test When Act and Will are done MORMON GRE. You R exciting — sentimental — humorous. Original art and verse Mormon greetings. Missionary your deacon..... Your trophy winners. <) wa Send today for your first package of the cards with the Mormon message... ETING CARDS.. For your bishop... Your. Your newlyweds r Christmas list... Your newly-baptized 146512 E ass''t Please se ass't TOTALS VALLEY TANS PUBLISHING CO. Please send ast 1300 South St., S. L. C. Utah 84105 Lapackages | doz. Cards @ $2.40 pkg. Nd packages /2 doz. Cards @ $1.20 pkg. Dozen cards Pew ecccscccowcccsorcwovs ee oneamemenansnecenacces wee wercnsecesseesece 714 But what Our Lord infers We would Had We diviner been — (Jounson, from The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson, page 399. Copyright 1929, (C) 1957 by Mary L. Hampson, by permission of Little, Brown and Company ). 1544 Who has not found the Heaven — below — Will fail of it above — For angels rent the House next ours, Wherever we remove — (The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson, page 644. See also, "I Never Saw a Moor," text, page 614.) Thoughts for Discussion 1. As proved by her poems, point out specific ways Emily Dickinson lived even though during her lifetime nothing really "exciting" ever happened directly to her. 2. If poetry does not contain rhyme and a regular rhythm, how can it ever be considered great? 3. Compare one of Emily Dickinson's poems with one of her letters as revelations of (a) Emily Dickinson's real self; (b) truth as she knew it. 4. In what ways do her poems resemble Emerson's both in form and content? In what elements does she seem a realist? 5. Few who have paused long enough to hear her voice on its own terms have remained indifferent to Emily Dickinson; many find rare qualities of greatness. For you what elements in her writings are most compelling? Poems 1732, 271, 252, 214, 328, 435, 764, 650, 823, 1544 are reprinted by permission of the publishers from THomAs H. Jounson, editor, The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson, Cambridge, Mass. The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, Copyright 1951, 1955 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College. SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. Hawaiian Tours Througout Summer Leaving October 14 Dedication of LDS Polynesian Village at Laie Rose Parade Tour Leaving December Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Forever Florence S. Glines If skies were always blue and fair And life forever free from care, Could trees stay green and strong And birds trill out a song Forever? We need the ups and downs; We need life's changing rounds Of heavy work and care-free play, Of wondrous night and rugged day Forever! Forever we must grow and feel The throb of life fulfilled and real, Accomplishment, and sometimes loss, The joy of good, the pain of dross, Forever! 715 "STRETCHING THE FOOD BUDGET" The Part II article "Evaporated Milk" will appear in the October issue. Mothers' Hands Linda Clarke What can be said of mother's hands can also not be said, For who can count the vast drudgeries performed each day — And who can surmise if drudgeries are really joys, because it is their pride... And they also minister kindness. Pathway Catherine B. Bowles We walk the path of life but once As we journey down the way; We do not pass this way again As we travel day by day. Shall we plant seeds of happiness Or strew the path with flowers And sow the seed of gratitude For rich blessings that are ours? Send a song along the highway, Push a stone from off the road, Make a beaten path for others Help them carry a heavy load. If we have helped, in some small way To give another a brighter day, Then life has not been lived in vain; Blessings will come back again. The fragrance of a life well spent Smooths the pathway we have trod That will bring us richest blessings In our pathway back to God. FOLLOW THE SUN and visit THE HOLY LAND including EGYPT LEBANON JORDAN ISRAEL TURKEY GREECE and ITALY Personally escorted all expense Tour via Jet leaves October Ist — Special 21 Day Excursion Rates. Join us and fly Jet to Aloha Week and the Polynesian Village Dedication — Laie, Hawaii — October. Murdock Travel Inc. (Bonded) 14 South Main Street 328-3161 "Your Experienced Travel Counselor' JUST OFF THE PRESS! The Lord Bless Thee and Keep Thee by FLORENCE J. MADSEN Quantity — S. S. A. — 20c We carry a complete stock of music for SINGING MOTHERS. Also Sacred Piano or Organ Music! Church mail orders filled in one day. POSTAGE FREE! GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 246 So. Main Salt Lake City Utah We call this "God's Country" but we do not always know the truth that lives in these words. Yet some have always known. OUR PILGRIM FATHERS KNEW ® WASHINGTON KNEW ° LINCOLN KNEW — and most of all — The PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH KNEW. HOW MUCH DO YOU KNOW OF OUR TRUE ORIGIN AND GREAT DESTINY? WOULD YOU LIKE TO KNOW MORE? You'll enjoy this unusual volume with its easy to read maps and chart © For yourself — or as a valued gift. SEND FOR IT NOW! You will be glad you did. (Detach and Mail) "JOSEPH SMITH and OUR DESTINY" EARL W. HARMER, Publisher-Editor r 6 tI Met LS OF amiiszad ano i 1177 Yale Avenue, Salt Lake City 5, Utah Please send --..----------------0--">copies to me. (PRICE $2.50 POSTPAID) SAFE an never missed paying a Savings dividend in 80 years Safe... Because your savings at Zions Savings are backed by one of the highest ratios of reserves to deposits of all savings associations in Utah. Insured, too, by the Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corp. And never in its 80- year history has Zions Savings failed to pay each savings depositor twice-yearly dividends on his savings. Savings Q/ per year earn 1 % current rate full 2 compounded semi-annually 80th Anniversary — Utah's first savings and loan association ZIONS SAVINGS -and Loan Association 33 E. LST SOUTH - SALT LAKE CITY open Fridays 'til 6:30 p. M. 4901 SOUTH STATE - MURRAY open Saturdays 'til noon 718 GOLD MEDALLION = A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO 4 @ e5 Buy now from your dealer All of the Numbers for the Relief Society and M. I. A. Are obtainable at BEESLEY Music (o. 70 SO. MAIN ST. EM 4-6518 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Mason & Hamlin — Weber — Hardman and the Original Cable Pianos BEAUTIFUL HANDY LABOR DAY TOURS Bryce, Zion, Grand Canyon and DURABLE Glen Canyon A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inFlaming Gorge Dam Area struction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and HAWAIIAN TOUR printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. In October Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Aloha Week Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Dedication of Polynesian Advance payment must accompany all orders. Village at Laie Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah ROSE PARADE TOUR Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles 64 December 27-January 4 150 to 300 miles.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 ° 300 to 600 miles..45 Over 1800 miles.87 Las Vegas, San Diego and 600 to 1000 miles..54 Los Angeles Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. R. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, ERO) EeeagRSaWcisco 'ome\PLosAtigeles 84101. —o ESTHER JAMES TOURS (>. = PESERET PF Pews PRESS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah, 84101 _P. Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL-9-8051 —_ gratify that wistful yearning this October, and return Conference Visitors — for a visit to "AMERICA'S FINEST ICE CREAM STORE" rove 7™™" oe Ercan THE INDUSTRY'S SUPREME ACHIEVEMENT Open until OUR ONLY STORE Closed Midnight 850 East 21st South St. Sundays Autumn Wind Rowena Jensen Bills Wind has left the garden bare piling leaves high upon the lawn, Flushed the drainways free of dust, bade chirping birds "Be gone Closed and shuttered windows, left the doorways stark, Rushing children into schoolrooms from the gold-toned park. >? I 719 Mrs. Lrzziz DELL MERRILL Henniker, New Hampshire Mrs. Cuore DurFEE SPENCER St. George, Utah Mrs. Lucinpa Exvira Pace REepp Monticello, Utah Mrs. SinAH Bisuor ReEIp Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ANNIE ERICKSEN BENSON Logan, Utah Mrs. Louisa RAPPLEYE NELSON Ferron, Utah Mrs. JOSEPHINE Rosinson Harris Provo, Utah Mrs. Marie BerkeLeEY Hurst Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. DEANA VANDEN AKKER Grace, Idaho Mrs. EmMiILty CHADWICK ZAUGG Clearfield, Utah 720 Mrs. Louise KELLER CHERRY Boise, Idaho Mrs. SaraH ELLEN Jupp Lunp St. George, Utah Mrs. Errie E. MERRILL Logan, Utah Mrs. Emma Jacoss WILLIAMS Cardston, Canada Mrs. ExvizA BREMER PERKINS Ogden, Utah Mrs. JEAN McKEnzy DEAN Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. CAROLINE ELIZABETH AARON DUFF Tulsa, Oklahoma Mrs. Ciara ANN ASHFORD MARTIN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. IsaBELLE H. KNECHT Logan, Utah Mrs. ANNA BarFuss RINDLISBACHER DuTSON Smithfield, Utah Mrs. CLARA PARTRIDGE STEVENS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. IsABELLE H. KNECHT Logan, Utah Order by mail 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL 7717 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 1. ONE LORD—ONE FAITH! By Mark E. Petersen A profound analysis of salient doctrines of the LDS Church that has difinitive answers to many questions that arise in the minds of both Church members as well as friends. An excellent volume by Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Quorum of the Twelve. $2.95 2. THE NAUVOO TEMPLE by E. Cecil McGavin Unusual facts about the Nauvoo Temple come to light in this absorbing volume. The story of the temple is interwoven with Nauvoo history to make this one of the finest Church volumes available on the subject of temples. $2.90 COMPANY SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah (check, cash, money order) the full cost $- Residents of Utah add 3%% sales tax. I would like to receive book(s) number for which I enclose Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah i th Beneficial's Family Package to the family are automatically covered -.. Along with Dad, Mom, and the rest of the family. For reliable counsel on your life insurance program, call your local Beneficial Life agent or write Dept. RS 63 9 — Arswranee Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres, Salt Lake City, Utah Now with over °80 million dollars of life insurance 
